

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 20.—New Series
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1883.
Price—6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN ”
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANT OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S. W.—THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “THE
BULLETINS” BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN ” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1883.
Imperial Federation.
When, from the centre to the circumference
of the Empire, no political questions of the
first order keep men’s minds in a state of
ferment, the proposal to weld together the
scattered dependencies of Britain into one
world-embracing confederation makes its
way to the front as certainly as M'Call’s
science-ignoring canal schemefor Victoria, or
the no less visionary projects for suppressing
intemperance by Act of Parliament among
ourselves. It is from Amsterdam we get the
last bulletin concerning it. At a Colonial
congress, held there a week ago, in connec-
tion with the Exhibition, Mr. F. Young de-
livered an address, urging upon England
“ the federation of the mother country and
the colonies, with a common Parliament for
the consideration oi matters of mutual in-
terest.”
* * •
Some years ago Sir Junius Vogel, having
coaxed New Zealand to take a perilous leap
in the dark, was accredited to London as
Agent-General for the colony whose finan-
success trembled in the balance. The
question of closer union between England
and her distant provinces was being lan-
guidly debated in some London maga-
zines. Into the front rank of skir-
mishers Sir Julius threw himself with
the impetuosity of a conscript. Urging
with vehemence the confederation of
the Empire if England wished to preserve
her place among the nations, he aimed some
sturdy blows which fell harmlessly, turned
aside by the shields of his more dexterous
antagonists. It was when he left the high-
sounding general ground of “ manifest de-
stiny,” “interests of civilization,” “disrup-
tion of the Empire,” and the other frothy
phrases which statesmen all the world over
use to soothe the national vanity of their
countrymen, and descended into the arena
of “particulars,” that thedints in his armour
became most apparent. Various colonial
politicians have followed in his wake, either
verbally or in writing, until at the Albury
banquet Mr. Service, the Victorian Premier,
expressed the hope of in an Imperial
congress in London as the representative of
a Colonial constituency.
* *
It is a pregnant fact that on the fingers of
one hand could be counted the English states-
men and writers of the first class who con-
sider the project of Imperial federation as
within the pale of practical politics.
• • •
For, what does this federation mean? It
means that in the House of Commons, or in
a Congress to which that historical House
would be subordinate, representatives from
all British possessions, exclusive of India
and other Crown dependencies, should meet
the representatives of the United Kingdom
° n equal terms, to govern an Empire whose
outlying parts touched every meridian, and
whose coasts were washed by every ocean.
The plan proposed was almost similar—no
other plan would be feasible —to that by ,
which the broad belt on the North American
eontiuent, extending from Maine to Florida,
and from New York to San Francisco, is
governed from Washington. In these days
it was argued, when locomotion was so rapid
between countries —when steam and elec-
tricity were annihilating distance—what was
there so Utopian in the scheme ? If America
could include, in one political organization,
States so far apart, and having such diver-
gent interests, as those washed by the At-
lantic and by the Pacific —if the immense
Empire of Russia could be governed from a
city on its extreme western frontier—what
but the factor of distance, a factor whose
value is daily decreasing, is to prevent all
the governmental strings in the British
Empire from converging on London, and
binding a vast power destined within the
lifetime of men now living to be the most
potent political organisation the world has
seen?
Stated in this way the proposal is sim-
plicity itself. You have but to elect a certain
number of members, according to popula-
tion, just like the American States; create a
few colonial peers for service in the Upper
House; remove the Bench of Bishops from
the latter, if only for their conduct at the
third reading of the Deceased Wife’s Sister’s
bill, and the thing is done. It is this very
simplicity that is so engaging and so decep-
tive. It has captivated Sir Julius Vogel,
Mr. Service, some of our colonial Governors,
many of our local representatives, and hosts
of journalists—those astute persons who
grasp a complicated political or social
problem with the same ease that a senior
Wrangler seizes hold of the leading facts in
the multiplication-table.
We have the authority of Sir Hercules
Robinson for stating that in a comparatively
few years—few compared with the life of a
nation—the population of Australasia will be
over thirty millions. By that time, Canada
will probably contain fifty. Assuming
population to be the measure of represen-
tation, the members from these dependencies
alone—leaving out South Africa—would
greatly outnumber those chosen by the
people of Gj eat Britain and Ireland. A
Premier born and bred in the colonies,
backed by Ministers whose homes were west
of the Atlantic, or south of the Equator,
would probably be in London legislating for
the confederation. English fleets and armies
woul 1 be under their control. As the seat
of Government usually follows in the track
of population, is it too much to suppose
that that seat would soon find its way to
Quebec or Sydney, or, failing this, that
Englishmen might say, as Lord Blandeobd
suggests, “You Colonials are not satisfied
with governing yourselves, but you want to
come here and govern us ?”
• • •
A hundred years ago the American colo-
nists, smarting under the stupidity and
aggressions of George III. and his purblind
advisers, gained their independence after a
fierce struggle. They were then three mil-
lions. To-day they are well on for sixty.
Suppose they had been worsted in the
struggle, or that, owing to timely conces-
sions, no shot had been fired in anger, but
that the Union Jack still floated over New
York, does anyone imagine that, with a con-
tinent behind them to subdue, they would
still consent to be go verned from London, and
supply troops and money to keep the Turks
in Europe or hold the passes of Afghanis-
tan ? Is it not in consonance with proba-
bility to suppose that they would say: “We
will not send our young men to perish in
quarrels with which we| have no concern,
nor will we contribute money to keep the
Russians behind the Balkans, or batter down
Egyptian towns. We have a territory which
will take two centuries to get into order,
and to it we intend to devote our dollars and
our people?” And is it not equally proba-
ble that Englishmen would say: “Wecan-
not shift our Island from its present moor-
ings. Through no fault of our own, we
belong to the European system, and must
fight, if need be, to retain a prominent place
in that system. Therefore, as our roads,
our interests, and our necessities point in
different directions; as we cannot play
second fiddle to you, and you will not to us,
let us in God’s name separate, and endea-
vour—as the preachers say—to do our duty
in the sphere of life to which Heaven has
called us?” When the issue was placed as
plainly as this, although not in similar
words, before Sir Julius Vogel, his answer
was to the effect that “ it would have been
better for the English-speaking race and for
humanity if the countries had not sepa-
rated.”! I !
• • •
When we hear Australian statesmen assert
that the colonies are not properly repre-
sented in London, and that nothing but a
comprehensive scheme of federation will
meet the growing importance of this south-
ern continent, the suspicion arises that they
have not got beyond the A B 0 of the ques-
tion. A defensive alliance implies an offen-
sive. If the understanding between Ger-
many and Austria mean anything, it means
that, whether Paris or St. Petersburg be the
house of call, both nations are prepared to
march. If taxation without representation
be absurd, no less absurd is representation
without taxation. Te suppose Australian
delegates sitting in an Imperial Congress,
while their constituencies contributed no
money to support the Federal Government,
and no men to euforoe its decrees, is one of
those suppositions whose absurdity would
come home even to a Koroit juryman. This
aspect of the case does not seem to have
struck Sir Julius Vogel, Mr. Service, or
those who at the Albury banquet applauded
the latter’s desire to represent his colony in
London. We shall enlighten them. Should
an Imperial confederation arise, Austra-
lia’s assessment would be about three
millions sterling a year towards the
naval and military forces, and twenty
thousand trained men for the horse, foot,
artillery, seamen, and marines. A minatory
diplomatic note is sent from Berlin to Paris.
There is no apparent cause. The French,
perhaps, have been seen throwing up earth-
works round some village in the Eastern
departments, or a Prussian spy has been ap-
prehended and promptly shot for having a
map of Belfort in his coat-pocket. Procla-
mations go forth, and a couple of millions of
men fall into the ranks with the regularity
of clockwork. The independence of Bel-
gium is threatened, and, acting on the only
treaty that will force Englishmen into Con-
tinental broils, fifty thousand British are
thrown into Antwerp to hold it against all
comers. When the heart is threatened, who
cares for the extremities ? The Australian
troops are ordered home by cable to defend
the Empire. This is no fancy picture. It
might arise to-morrow. Messrs. Vogel and
Service are in London, looking after the
affairs of the “ Confederation.” As the in-
dependence of Belgium is of such vital
moment to the Australians with a territory
as large as Europe to fall back upon, it is
only fair to assume that our representatives
DR. ANDREW GARRAN, EDITOR OP THE S.M. HERALD.


Coughs and Colds.
T
HE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6e. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Bepartnen
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
c. w. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
eci.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot bo surpassed at anv
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
BED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMB1DGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HBNNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS!
i
Market Street, Sydney.
I!
Season 1883-84.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
SYDNEY.
THE WOOL GROWERS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUBENSDAND.
THE rapid approach of the incoming wool
season reminds us to tender our thanks for
the very liberal support which has been accorded
to us during past years ; and while doing so we
take the opportunity to solicit a continuance of
the same support in the future which we have
enjoyed in the past.
On referring to our circular issued last year we
find that we therein anticipated a large increase in
the quantity of wool which would be sold in these
colonies, and the result proved that we wore cor-
rect. We also predicted that the prices obtained
in the colonics would be in favour of those growers
who sold in the
LOCAL, MARKET,
and this also has been fully borne out by facts.
We are also glad to say that this market all
through the last, season was extremely active, and
the large q uantlty of wool sold proves that
SYDNEY
is fast becoming, what it is destined to be m future,
the
WOOL MARKET OF AUSTRALIA.
We have therefore no hesitation in urging upon
growers the advantage of first offering their wooi
here, where buyers from all the manufacturing
countries of Europe and America attend to suppu
their wants from
FIRST HANDS.
Failing sales in Sydney, we are prepared to ship to
our London Agents, making liberal cash advances.
When sales are effected,
OUK CHARGES
are made on as low a scale as possible, and all woo
offered in our Warehouses, and not sold, is sunjec*'
only to the nominal charge of
ONE SHILLING PER BALE,
which covers receiving, delivering, weighing, an
storage accommodation.
Our Warehouses arepartiulaiiy well lighted, ®n
are most conveniently arranged for the display
wool, in any quantity, to the greatest advantage.
The most careful attention is given to the valuing
of every lot, both large and small, so that nom »
will be sold under the full market value.
Way-bills and all further information forwar
upon application.
HILL, CLARK AND CO.,
WOOL WAREHOUSES,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
Off ices : m F1TT STREET, SYDtfB Y *
On dit that the lawyers are likely to make
some piekings.out of the N.S.W, Cricket Associa-
tion meeting.
The Waverley Mechanics defeated the Vic-
toria C.C. in the first match for the Stedman Junior
Cup, by an innings and four runs.
Rumour states that Mrs. Hampson con-
templates “a Mission to the Jews.” We ask the
lady to leave the Jews to their sins, and try the
Christians of Woolloomooloo.
Ten tons of Stockholm tar being used for
the roadway opposite tho Town Hall, George-
street, blazed up on Tuesday. The heavens for a
time were eclipsed by the smoke. It’s thought the
intense heat of the sun caused the blaze. There is
evidence, however, that “Nemo” was passing the
locality at the moment.
W.G. Brett, R. N. Bull, F. Ives, and G Searle
started for the Fowler Cup. in connection with the
Mercantile Rowing Club. Brett won by any num-
ber of lengths from Bull, in 33min. 2sec.; and as
he has won the Cup on three occasions, it now
becomes his sole property.
The election of officers in connection with
the Cricket Association resulted—as suggested by
us—In a change of administration. Mr. D. W.
Gregory was appointed secretary in place of Mr,
Gibson, and Mr. Teece, to the regret, however, of
a good many members, was thrown out in favour
of Mr. Lindeman.
Skinnv Men —“Wells’ Health Kcnewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility. Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney,
General Agents.
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 34s.: haJf-mu, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Rates are 5e. per inch ;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, 11 more convenient.
would remain at home just to see how things
turned out before making a six weeks’
voyage to meet their constituents.
» * *
“Trade follows the flag.” This doctrine is
the stronghold of the federalists. Let us
examine it. There are axioms in political
economy as there are in Euclid. The econo-
mic axiom that men, if left to themselves,
will buy in the cheapest market and sell in
the dearest, is just as binding as the geome-
tric one that the whole is greater than its
part. When colonists proudly say, “ What
would England be but for her colonies?”
they should have added, “ but for her Crown
colonies.” So far as constitutionally-
governed dependencies, like those of Aus-
tralia (with one exception) are concerned,
she would be a little better than she is now.
Colonial merchants trade with Great Britain
for many reasons. It is necessary to state
one only—they can buy there cheaper than
in any other market. It is no reflection on
the traders of Sydney or of Melbourne to
say that, if for Is. they could land on the
Circular Quay or at Williamstown, New
York, Paris, or Berlin goods that would
cost Is. OMcl. if Imported from London—they
would not import from London. That Eng-
land’s trade, therefore, would suffer if
thelcolonies were independen t States is about
as rational as to suppose that New South
Wales would favourably entertain Victoria’s
request for the cession of Iliverina. So far
as commerce is concerned, a country derives
no advantages from the possession of colo-
nies whose fiscal policy she does not attempt
to control—colonies which possess the power
and, in some cases, use it, of limiting the
imports from the parent State by means of
high protective duties.
• • •
From whatever standpoint, therefore—
political, military, or commercial—we ex-
amine this question of Imperial federation,
its holloAvness becomes apparent. It is a
dream —fascinating, it is true, but still a
dream. When nations, separated by vast
stretches of ocean, are so geographically
placed that their destinies are obviously
dissimilar; when one has to take a hand and
play a part in a political system dominated
by militarism, while the other has to
reclaim from savagery a continent which
has never echoed the roll of drums or the
tramp of armed men; when long years
must elapse before the mediaeval tags
and tatters still clinging to the one are
brushed away, while no such impediments
retard the progress of the other, a close
political bond between them is undesirable.
It chafes both. Sir J onus Vogel thinks it
would have been better had the Americans
not separated. Do any Americans think so ?
Do any Englishmen ? To us it appears as
certain that in the fulness of time an Aus-
tralian Republic will claim a seat among the
nations as that Ncav South Wales J udges will
have to modify their claims to infallibility.
The time is not yet; but it is on the road.
We trust it may dawdle until eight or ten
millions of English-speaking people ean be
counted between Carpentaria and Queens-
chff; but we hold that those who seek to
solidify a union that cannot in the nature of
things be perpetual—who seek to imbue
Australian children with the notion that
dependence and not autonomy is the groove
cut out for this big island in the future—are
no true friends of Australia.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Watch the Grabbers!
It must not be thought that, because the public
have in the most decisive manner declared their
wish that the anomalous conditions of the Libel
aw shall be so amended as to relieve the Press
from the absurd and dangerous pressure of enact-
ments framed to suit a penal settlement, a satis-
factory reform will necessarily follow. On the
contrary, a strenuous and artful opposition may
certainly be expected in Parliament. There will
probably be no difficulty made in defining the pro-
cedure relating to “Contempt of Court.” But,
with regard to the right of free comment upon
public men and affairs, it is not to be hoped that
any change giving liberal protection to the Press
in discharge of duties which frequently involve
protection of the community from their repre-
sentatives in Parliament, will be cordially granted
by a certain class not without influence among
these representatives. When a retrospect is made
of the course of events during the past few years,
it is seen that, owing chiefly to the strictures
which the Press has uttered, at its imminent
peril, a very great and wholesome change
has been wrought in public affairs. Men who
seemed omnipotent for evil, and who concealed
the most corrupt practices under a plausible pre-
tence of fair dealing and patriotism, have been
unmasked, piiloried, and, in some instances, fairly
driven out of public life. Some, unmasked and
humiliated, still hang on, and cave managed by
superior address to maintain their positions even
after their characters have been fully exposed. It
is obvious that these dexterous tricksters must
view any alteration, designed to strengthen the
position of the guardians of the pabllc, with alarm
and repugnance. It is not tor a moment to be
supposed that they will be stupid enough to con-
front the popular will with a declared antagonism.
This would be foreign to the sinuous practice of
these gentry. They will protend cordial agree-
ment, but will slip in apparently candid and oppo-
site qualifications, the real effect of which would
be, if net defeated, to rib the apparent amend-
ment of all real value. The public will do wisely
to keep a sharp eye oft these gentry, who seek to
make exceptions. It is very certain that the sort
of journalism av Inch they will seek to keep under
the rule of terrorism Avill be just those which
have, by plain doAvnright speaking out, been most
effectual In spoiling little games, past and pro-
jected. No man can fear a free Press, except a
rogue in fact or in intention.
Memo. for David Syne, Esq.
The Age is up in arms against Bishop Moor-
house. The Bishop cauterised continental Liberal-
ism, and the Collins-street proprietary affect to feel
that the cauterising iron has touched their own
proud flesh. The Dairy David writhes in sym-
pathy with the great leaders of advanced thought
in Europe. In touching them, he makes it appear
you touch him. Now, who, in the name of all the
pawnbrokers of Melbourne, ever supposed the
Age to be actuated by the spirit of Continental
Liberalism ? During the last year, especially, it
has been vital with rampant Orangeism, with
a thin sauce of sceptism ladled over it, and open-
mouthed with a gush of adulatory loyalty that
could not be surpassed by “ the man that took the
shilling.” “ O, my gracious Queen ! O, my hea-
vent-sent Mistress ! O, beloved Throne ! O, most
noble Princes ! O, most sacredly sanctified Prin-
cesses ! D’ye want any licking to be done ? D’ye
want the Redmonds cursed ? D’ye want Royalty
worshipped and the Irish landlords adored ? I can
lick and curse and wallop and worship with the
hottest all-fired frenzy at the Antipodes.” On all
great questions the liberal-conservative Specta-
tor, of London, is far more radical than the Age, of
Melbourne. That David can take it to himself
that he is at all in the same waters as the Continen-
tal thinkers induces one to believe that no man
can successfully humbug a community for many
years without at last turning round and hum-
bugging himself.
A Colonial Jenkins.
The Melbourne correspondent of Vanity Fair is
a born humorist. “ We Australians,” he says,
“ have such a deep-rooted reverence for the Peer-
age that we can forgive anything to one of the
order. A Governor has only to be a Marquis, and
it makes us happy. . . . And yet they say that
the advance of democracy will be fatal to the con-
tinual existence of an aristocracy. .... The
democracy are prone to think ill of aristocrats,
although ready to grovel before them,” &c. &c.
And yet there may be some truth in all this. Yes.
When we consider the infantile eagerness with
which this colonist strives for the privilege of
attaching a few unmeaning letters to his vulgar
name, and that for the right of handing down an
equally unmeaning title to his unoffending and
possibly weak-minded son: when we think of the
multitudes that flocked to stare at a couple of
rather weedy lads—the grey-haired men who went
to do them homage—the matrons and maids who
schemed, scrambled, and perspired to dance with
them: when we read letters in the daily papers
from men born and bred in democratic Australia,
advocating colonial federation, not for the purpose
of welding the provinces into a homogeneous
people with a dazzling future before it—a future
rivalling that of the United States—but for the
avowed object of obtaining the services of a young
man from England to instruct in statecraft some
who might be his grandfathers—then the suspicion
that there may be something after all in what the
Vanity Fair correspondent says of Australians
comes home to us. While the philosophical as well
as the unkempt Liberalism of England and of the
world is foaming and surging round the medueval
breakwater of hereditary nobility, the fact of that
worn-out principle’s struggling into existence
amongst us—putting forth little phthsioal blossoms
—can scarcely be equalled, and certainly not ex-
ceeded for whimsicality.
For the following remarks, made at a ban-
quet in Dublin, Lord Wolseley is being roughly
handled by all the papersThere is no greater
folly than to imagine that the strict discipline
which was necessary for an army could be main-
tained amongst Irishmen by the cold, unsym-
pathetic rule of Englishmen. I have great respect
for Englishmen. I know their good points, and
none admire their good points more than I. But
my own experience of Irish soldiers is that, if you
want to have them in a state of discipline, and get
as much out of them as possible, they must be
commanded by their own countrymen. Irish
soldiers are much like the Irish people-they re-
quire to be ruled firmly, but justly. The adminis-
tration that suited other races did not suit the Irish
army any more than it did the Irish people.” if
this is not a “ home-rule ” manifesto, as definite
and “treasonable” asanyin Redmond’s repertoire,
we should like to know what it is. It should be
pasted in the bed-rooms of Englishmen the
world over, from those of the statesmen who are
honestly endeavouring to discover a modus
vivendl between the two islands, to the
colonists who made themselves ridiculous by
stupidly refusing to grant a hall in which
i isitors, whose near relations held high command
in the British service, might put before those
who chose to listen, moderately-expressed views
affecting the well-being of five millions of people.
Englishmen are prone to think that the civil and
military polity which has placed their own coun.
try in the van of civilization, is adapted without
modification for all others. This is the fundamen-
tal error which neutralises all the well-meant legis-
lation of recent years. Lord Wolseley is no.v
undergoing a severe discipline for having dis-
covered and exposed it. Should he live to see his
frankly-expressed views embraced by a majority
of thoughtful Britons, he will have lived to see the
morning twilight of a day the most promising in
the annals of his country.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Sold”: Yes, we’re afraid you arc sold.
We don’t know who he Is “Jack” (Mel-
bourne) : Very good, indeed “E.F.J.”:New
South Wales, dear sir, isn’t Victoria. So,
therefore, we decline to say anything about
the matter further than that, had we been
the landlord, we’d have packed the dea l
traveller’s clay in his employer s tea-lead, and sent
it down to Melbourne in a sample hearse...“ W.S.”:
What the constituent in question did say was this:
“ Last session I had occasion to see Mr. at his
house on business. The moment I went in,
he effusively asked mo if I wouldn’t take
a chair. The side-board was heavy with
plate, and there was a capacious wine-
cooler there. I took the chair. That’s all.” —
“D.M.C.” (Musclebrook) asks; “Whilst in a scuffal
with a policeman in plain clothes he split the knee
of his trousers and valued them at one pound five
shillings was paid (sic) who does the trousers be-
long to?” Ours are the italics. We were working
out the problem of how the cutting of the Isthmus
of Panama and diversion of the Gulf Stream into
the Pacific would affect North Western Europe
when the above question reached us. A wet
horse-cloth has been round our head since. The
issues involved are too many and the data too few.
It is not said who got up the “scuffel,” or whose
trousers were torn. Whether they were tweed or
moleskin—paid for or chalked up ; whether the
injury could bo remedied without proceeding to
the extreme measure of attaching a back and a
new pair of legs, or whether—but, there ! When
“D.M.C.” give us fu 1 particulars, we will wa le
through them and give a straightforward answer
or “ bust”—although we suspect we are being
made use of by designing men to settle a wager ..
“A Lover of True Sport” (Adelong): We’ve “let
down” on the testimonial system “H.W.T.”
(Richmond, Vi .); Sorry don’t require anybody
at present “W. Moulton”; If you wanttoform
a hospital library, just vote £50 or £100 out of your
funds, and let a trustAvorthy Avho knows
something of books, get the best value for it. Wo
know the result of appealing to the public for
books. You’ll get, the very first Aveek, 50 copies of
“Nicholas Nickleby,” doA'etailed into as many of
Blair’s sermons, padded with a chapter on cubic
equations, and sewn Avith Avax-end into tattered
covers torn from Reynolds’ “ Mysteries of Lon-
don.” “Mark J. Woodforth”: No. For years
Ave have sought the confiding Israelite who so
constantly advertises that, having a large capital,
and being desirous of aidmg his less fortunate
fellows, he is prepared to lend it at the lowest rate
of interest, Avithout any security Avorth talking
about. But for years this person has kept his
residence as secret as the Nile its source—“Min-
jah ”: No; Ave think this is about a fair thing:—
To damage to the dignity of a Chief
Justice £50
To damage to the dignity of four
Puisne Judges, at £37 10s 150
To damage to the dignity of five Asso-
ciates, at £6 30
To damage to the dignity of a Protho-
notary 10
To damage to the dignity of sundry
Clerks, Tipstaffs, and Court
Cleaners, say 10
Total £350
“L.X.”: Yes; there's a Marquis as Avell as a
Duke of Hamilton. The Marquis is the eldest son
of the Duke of Abercorn “Tom Purcell ”: In
“the King being dead, his son claimed the croAvn,”
ihe word “being” is a verb (presentparticiple).
What else could it be? “W.A.”: Thank you
very much “ J.H.” (Geelong): To hand; thanks.
“Maud”: We’d like, if possible, to arrange ATith
you for more matter “ W.A.” (St. Kilda): Write
again “ J.F.H. (Elizabeth Bay): Thanks. A clean
boAvl out. Will communicate with the writer of
the article “P.S.” : Thanks : next week —
“J R.W.”: Your verses are very good. But, then,
all husbands don't come home late at night. Some
come home earl.A - , and others don’t come home
until they’re bailed out in the morning “Sub-
scriber” (Paddington): Re Bradlaugh, most em-
phatically— JVb. (3.) There never Avas such a latv in
any civilised country “B.B.T.”: Thanks. Par.
in'type “Dude”: The best Avay is not to
stand in front of a clothing shop. Or, if you
must do so, keep moving a little. Then
people Avon’t turn you round to look for
the price. Such mistakes are very annoying —
“W.E.L.” (Manly) : Not suited for publication in
its present shape.. .“E.J.” (Watson’s Bay): We
suppose you mean that, like Commodore Brskine,
he is a man of “ unflagging ” devotion to his coun-
try’s ensign.... “T.H.S.”: Many thanks. Can you
get us additional information ?
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
The late Mr. E. A. Scarvell.
There passed away on Thursday last one of the
most modest and unassuming, but at the same
time one of the most gifted, among the citizens of
Sydney—Mr. Edward Augustus Scarvell, the last
survivor among the thx - ee sons of the late Captain
Scarvell, of Killarney, near Windsor, who was for
30 years a magistrate of this colony. It was impos-
sible to pass the late Mr. B. A. Scarvell, even in the
street, without being struck by his magnify ent
physique, noble features, and intellectual cast of
countenance. Probably nothing but his own re-
tiring disposition prevented him from ranking
among our own very foremost public men. His
abilities were such as commanded the admiration
of all who knew him. Some years ago, when the
question of amalgamating the branches of the legal
profession was being debated, Mr. Dailey, in op-
posing the proposition, admitted that instances
might be adduced in its favour, and remarked that
within his own knowledge there lived in an ob-
scure country town a solicitor whose talents
would adorn not only the Bar, but even the Chief
Justiceship of the colony, That man was Mr.
Scarvell, just deceased. He was a brilliant speaker,
but always shrank from public life. Latterly he
became a partner in the well-known leading legal
Arm of Want, Johnson, and Scarvell. His illness
was long and painful, and terminated his career at
the age of 47.


In the Australian Babylon (Victorians like
their capital to be called the Australian Babylon)
you can get your soul saved on Sunday nights for
6d, 3d, and in several places even for Jnothing.
Who would be without getting It saved, then?
Among the larger places, competition is so keen
that prices have had to be cut very fine; and unless
they establish themselves in a kind of union, the
industry must soon cease to be remunerative.
Those who save you for nothing are mostly ama-
teurs, and. like the contributors to the Victorian
Review, are sufficiently recompensed by the honor
and glory of the thing. But there is a general
reluctance to hand over any sort of a clean hope-
ful soul to these, afraid of its being damaged by
the manipulation of apprentices. We know all
the practitioners of the present time down there,
and although it is not our purpose to advertise any
Arm, we can’t help offering a word of advice to a
man wanting some repairs done. We would say to
him, take the thing, if you must have it mended,
where you will be charged the fair trade price. If
you can go the 6d., go it; if you try to get it done
for nothing, you may be botched.
General Booth says
that If the present rate of
progress of the Salvation
Army is maintained for the
next twenty years, it will
be350,000,000 strong. Likely
enough. Funny, though,
if it were all forgotten in
twenty years’ time. But i f
it is, there will be some
other craze. There always
will be crazes while there
is coin to be got. How the
Devil must laugh at all of
them I A very fine old
humourist is the Devil.
The dashing Gladys,
Countess of Lonsdale, is
about to be married to Mr.
Luke White. Like many
another bridegroom, he
will probably look white
on the eventful morning.
However, it Is hoped he
may not emulate the late
Earl, of bibulous memory,
and require the physical
—in addition to the moral
—support of his best man,
and that he will’ duly bring
out the all-important “I
will,” unaccompanied by a
hiccup.
The meetings of the
Melbourne Presbytery, for
the purpose of “trying”
the Rev. Chas. Strong, have
been largely attended by
“lost sheep,” anxious to
catch the “ very attributes
of truth ” from the Ups of
reverend gentlemen. The
universal opinion of the
“ lost ones ” is, that no men
could possibly he as pious
as what most of the mem-
bers of the Presbytery look.
One “bad case’ 1 went so
far as to say that they
looked almost as saintly as
“ City of Glasgow Bank ”
directors. Of course, that’s
only his opinion.
VVe dreamt this. We
did, really. We dreamt
that the sister of the Queen
of Tahiti had, long ago,
when her father died, asked
him to leave her a kingdom
all to her own little cheek.
Which he did. He left her
the island of Mahineutu,
which is about as large as a
good - sized dinner - plate.
But she had this cultivated
till it was one of the pret-
tiest spots in the Pacific.
Then a brother of Sir
came out there as a
missionary. And the Queen
fell in love with him. But
he didn’t like the liquor
sold in Tahiti, so he went
home again. And the
Queen sold her island a few
weeks ago to buy him a
surplice. Romantic, isn’t it.
We are pleased to find
that Mr. Marwood, hang-
man, still upholds the dig-
nity of his station. From
a London paper we learn
that having occasion to pay
a little professional visit to
the land o’ barley bree and
Buchanan, the other day,
every station along the
line was crowded with the
noose-man’s admirers,
some of whom even
pressed forward to shake
hands with the great re-
mover. Marwood seemed
extremely flattered at his
reception, but, owing to
the early hour at which he
arrived, he was not recog-
nised at the Central Station,
Glasgow. He is extremely
communicative, and seems
by no means ashamed of
his calling; and when in-
terrogated does not hesi-
tate to declare himself the
servant of the Almighty
just as much as a judge
(whew!) or a minister of
religion. It is right here
that Mr. Marwood dis-
covers his one weakness.
He is far too modest.
“ Turning off ” a client is,
to use his own words, “ no
more nor drinkin’ me cup
o’ tea for breakfastin
fact, like every other great
genius, he loves his art
from his very soul. In these
days of vulgar, pretentious
official shams, it is indeed a
consolation to find such a
dignified, and yet unassum-
ing State servant as Mr.
Marwood.
Berry was quite himself at the Town Hall
meeting, held with a view to the establishment of
a working man’s club in Melbourne. It was his
business to move that a list be opened to raise
£3000. The only working men on the platform
■were Douglass, the president of the Trades’ Union,
and one or two others in representative capacities.
I he rest were the thousand-pounders of society.
Now the visible raison d’etre of this influential
presence was the expectation that it would fork
out the cash. The influential speakers, one by
one, broke the ice and Jet the meeting see that the
expectation couldn’t at all bear a weight of such
dimensions. But Graham Berry turned the corner
beautifully. “ Hodge I” cried ne in effect, “ Here
'T® are inaugurating this great club for you.
*3000 is a good sum of money, and if you like we’ll
subscribe it. But I know you, Hodge, and know
you won’t let us. And I honour you, Hodge, for
your manliness and independence. I am sure,
Hodge, you will insist upon raising every penny of
R yourself I” And Hodge yelled “ Hooray !” and
Berry looked at the ceiling.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A Taranaki (N.Z.) man drank a decoction of
blue gum leaves for a cold. The cold went, but
the gum went to his head, and turned his hair a
delicate shade of light green. This now acquisition
he is open to trade off for paralysis or lock-jaw.. .
There is in Sydney a pleasant gentleman named
Fosbery, who is Inspector-General of Police, and
wears the uniform of a Field-Marshal or some-
thing. Well, Field-Marshal Fosbery has changed
his tune. “The police,” Mr. Fosbery says,
“ cannot be permitted to go about in disguises and
participate in the commission of an offence.” And
yet it’s not so many moons ago that the “trap”
who had masqueraded as the early-market man, or
festive mechanic, was the police court’s constant
attendant in the character of energetic witness
against prosecuted publicans Captain Walker,
of the Sydney Torpedo Corps, and a Mr. Riggs, of
this city, have patented, in London, a torpedo boat
capable of travelling under water with a man
inside to direct its movements. It is not stated
whether they have invented the man that is to go
inside. He’s probably one of Parkes’ underground
engineers —A passenger from Sydney to New-
castle on arrival yesterday (Tuesday) morning,
found that his pocket had bean cut away and
about £10 stolen. But a ’Frisco Chinaman beat
that. He cut a railway passenger’s linger off to
get hold of a diamond ring. Then he got himself
off before the other party missed his skin and
“sparkler.”.. .A prize was given to “the best-
looking ploughman” at a recent ploughing match
in Victoria. He had cross eyes. Which reminds
us that the best-looking men we have ever seen
were booksellers and bailiffs. The booksellers
looked volumes, and the bailiffs looked every-
where. And we were there, worse lu ck.... Pathan
cleared the way, and now another gallant seaman
h is just been hauled up in Melbourne at the
instance of thirty-seven passengers for supplying
them with “putrid meat, tombstone bread, oily
water, rotten salt junk, wormy biscuits, bad flour
and woi’se cookery.” Probably there wore some
other grievances, but the passengers had exhausted
their stock of adjectives The new N.S.W. dog-
quarantining regulations are now in force. Im-
ported dogs, it seems, must be quarantined for six
months, at a cost of £50 per head to their owners.
— It’s decidedly rough on a pressman if a dis-
paraging criticism on the architectural features of
a church or public building can be construed as a
libel on the architect who designed them. Down
South, several newspapers have been threatened
with legal proceedings because they ventured on a
little mild criticism of the new Gundagai vicarage...
New surgical operation, Mrs. Wyatt, of Kewcll,
was eating curried fowl at dinner, when a portion
lodged in her throat. A tallow candle was im-
mediately forced down her throat, and the fowl at
once evicted. Henceforth a new groove will be
made in every surgeon’s case, to hold tallow can-
dles Victorian New Postal Bill holds a clause
empowering the authorities to open letters ad-
dressed to sweep promoters and return contents to
sender. We have heard of such letters being
opened by official authorities before. What we
are dying to hear of now is a case in which
the contents were returned to the sender.
* * *
The following is the proportion of English,
Scottish, and Irish soldiers in the British army
Cavalry : English, 7668 ; Irish, 1034 ; Scotch 686.
Koyal Artillery ; English, 11,565 ; Irish, 3,073 ;
Scotch, 966. Royal Engineers : English, 3633 ; Irish,
373 ; Scotch, 348. Infantry : English, 34,834 ; Irish,
11,970 ; Scotch, 46*0. Foot Guards : English, 4360 ;
Irish, 355 ; Scotch, 838. Household Cavalry : Eng-
lish, 911; Irish, 90 ; Scotch, 198
Bishop Murray, of Maitland, has been nomi-
nated to succeed Archbishop Vaughan. Yerrah !
In seventeen years the United States has
paid off 310 millions pounds sterling, and reduced
the interest from £29,000,000 (in 1866) to £10,000,000
in 1883 !
James Watson was in the chair, the other
evening, at a meeting to express the regret of cer-
tain of the congregation of St. Mark’s in losing
Spicer’s services as curate of the parish. No one
was ever called on to take a chair at any meeting
to express any one’s regret at the severance of
Jemmy’a political connection with St. New South
Wales.
As Dibbs and Wright were journeying to
Grafton several sarcastic New South Whales did
many blows around the Ajax in mockery of the
human spouters on board. Moreover, Dibbs and
Wright witnessed a combat betwixt the cetaceous
blowers and certain thrashers, ominous of fierce
struggles ’twixt other blowers and other thrashers
on a day not very distant.
Now that Dibbs, of
the Commercial, has got
his steam-yacht fixed up,
we presume that there’ll
be many a run upon the
banks (of the Hawkesbury
and Parramatta).
Thadeus O’Kane is iu
trouble again. He is a
candidate for the Queens-
land Parliament. Thady,
as e verone knows, owns the
Northekn Miner. The
rival paper airily suggests
to him that he should
gracefully retire, and gives
him its opinion, that he is a
“lying, evil-minded, slan-
derous, peace-disturbing t
virtue-killing member of
society,” also “a being
bearing the semblance of a
man but having all the de-
spicable instincts of a
fiend.” People at large
may not generally know
what the fashion of think-
ing of a fiend is like, but
up North this is a piece of
fireside knowledge. So
they got the measure of
Thady pretty correctly,
when they read this di-
scription. But the editor
wanted to make certain. So
he accuses Thady of being
a Roman Catholic, who
“dared to drag the skirts
of the Roman Catholic
Church through the mire.’’
After this crusher, Thady
is left alone. But as miners
prefer a man of force —
even though he should
have the instincts of a
fiend—to an ass, we back
Thady.
On the6th September,
at Kaiapoi, in the Middle
Island of New Zealand,
there died one of the most
remarkable men of our
time—the chief Hakopa
Teataota. Born in 1783, the
most of his time up to 40,
was spent in the manner
then so much esteemed
among the Maoris—fishing,
fighting and foraging, re-
lieved by an occasional
banquet attended by both
friends and enemies—the
former to eat, the latter
to bo eaten. But over 60
years ago. when Hakopa
was turned 40, came a fleet
of canoes from the North.
They were beyond count-
ing—the sea was beaten in-
to foam with their paddles.
They had guns too, had
those Northern boys old
flint pieces that had seen
service from the Boyne to
Badajos—that had tickled
Louis’ tall at Blenheim,
belched out their reception
to the “Paddys” at hot
Fontenoy, taught good be-
haviour to the Gordon
rioters, or noisily wel-
comed Bonaparte’s lancers
at Waterloo. Hakopa and
his lads had to depend on
stone-hatehets. and mis-
sionary tomahawks, but
with these they received
the strangers so warmly,
that the latter, or all that
were left of them, thought
they would run home to
their families till the
Southern men learnt hos-
pitality. Next year they
came again, and this time
took Hakopa away with
them. For many years he
resided among his captors,
until the English missior-
aries begged him off, and
Bishop Hadflcld educated
him in the Christian faith.
Returning to his people, he
turned his attention to
their education, taught
them that there were other
duties in life besides kill-
ing and cooking one’s en-
emies, and brought them
gradually round to his
views. His obsequies were
attended by all,the Maoris
in the neighbourhood. The
funeral sermon was
preached by the Rev. G. P,
Mutu, who dwelt upon the
old chief’s sterling quali-
ties and powerful diges-
tion. So, full of years and
tattoo-marks, passed away
Hakopa Teataota, chief of
the Kaiapoi tribe.
A woman’s reason —“Well, because.”
West Coast of African advices tell how a
great native trial is progressing at Tyamah. Over
a hundred people are charged with cannibalism.
The penalty is roasting alive. The kings anct
chiefs of all th® tribes for hundreds of miles are
hanging round with their henchmen, on the off-
chance of a verdict of “guilty.” They will then
strike for home—having first eaten the prisoners.
France has a brandy-shop to every 92 in-
habitants. But, then, what is French brandy com-
pared with the sort we drink ? Mere milk. We
confess to some little patriotic vanity in saying
that there are more deaths from drink in this
country than in any other in the world. Shows the
strength of the liquor, and our perseverance as a
race. However, we’re glad France is taking her
proper position as one of the leading nations of
the world in this festive funeral procession.
That invalid wife, mother, sister or child
can be made the picture of health with Hop Bitters.
Observe, ......
TOM GARRETTS CONFESSION.
Tom Garrett has made a beginning in well-doing. He has publicly apologised for having made an erroneous charge against
Gareannv. Whilst he’s in the confessing humour, let him go on purging his conscience. We’re open to negooiate for the
copyright of the catalogue of Tom’s sins.


Woma n Item s
Last month a cricket match was played in
Northamptonshire between two teams of ladies
One of the batswomen scored thirty-five in one
innings. The costumes wore somewhat curious,
but there was no difficulty, says Vanity Fair, in
toeing that the ladies wore pads under their
clothes. Hem! There never is.
At the Lady Godiva procession at Coventry,
massive Maud Forrester was a big draw, and in a
tight fitting silk bodice and fleshings, was pro-
nounced by the assembled “ Peeping Toms” to be
a fine figure of a woman. Maud, you know, played
t he Queen of the Amazons In the revival of “ Babll
and Bijou,” at the Alhambra, until superseded by
the giantess “ Maid Marian.” As Maud’s pre-
decessor in the part (at the original production)
was Helen Barry, Maud may fairly be described as
a high-class actress.
Lady Harberton calls the legs—blush here!
—the “ most important limbs of the body.” One
would almost Imagine from this that Lady Harber-
ton was in the habit of being chased by bailiffs.
She is, you know, the apostle of dress reform
Dress reform means divided skirts. Divided skirts
mean trousers. Trousers mean tyranny. If the
feminine lower limb is allowed to assert Itself, good-
bye to the lord-and-mastershlp of man. No wonder
Lady Harberton considers the leg important. But
If only for curiosity, we should like to see this
new idea tried for once. Now, if tights—[Stop
here!—Ed.B.]
The Princess of Wales has admirable taste
in dress. Here are specimens. At a garden party:
tine white India muslin, the skirt and draperies
edged with coffee-coloured lace, and bodice
trimmed with same, so as to form a fichu.
White bonnet, similarly trimmed. As a bazaar
stallholder, all white net, with gleaming white
beading, a touch or two of bright scarlet,
and diamonds. At afternoon tea-party, pale
blue silk, white bonnet, and pale pink rose
at throat. On Goodwood racecourse, very
dark green silk, dotted with sprays of rosebuds,
and trimmed with white Irish lace. At Court Ball,
a l white brocaded velvet, with a profusion of
pearls.
The authorities of the Melbourne Univer-
sity were about to make themselves a little inter-
esting the otner day. Notwithstanding the fre-
quency with which they meet, and the liberal space
accorded to them in that section of the Press that
languishes for one academical favour, their
learned symposia are far from being entertaining.
The chaneo they missed lately of shining out
among the dust of dead ancients, was in the ap-
pointment of examiners for the advertised subject
of French. Two ladies were nominated for the
post. For a while it looked as if they would win.
M’Coy (Purves’s “gay old spark”) and Irving
were beginning to smile, but Dobson ran inside of
one, and Morrison inside of the other. Place aux
dames resolved itself on this occasion into an out-
side one. By the way, Dr. Dobson is believed by
his Intimate friends to know a little Hrench.
Btrange, isn’t it ? And he appointed to examine on
that subject in the Melbourne University I
What is this? A Society man, dear. He
seems to be very wealthy. Oh, yes 1 he seems so.
But is he not wealthy ? No, dear : he may per-
haps have half-a-soverelgn. My I has he no
capital 1 Certainly. What is it ? The people he
“knows.” Is that capital available? Yes. For
what? For the purpose of “knowing” other
people. Why do you put those funny jlggermarigs
before and after the word “know?” To signify
its peculiar use. Why “peculiar?” Because this
society man “knows” people in a way which is
“ peculiar." How ? Ask them. If this society
man has no capital but ten shillings and the people
lie “knows,” now can he afford to dress so well?
Ask his tailor. My I doesn’t the poor tailor get
his pay? Oh, yes. How? Why, he charges his
next customer nine pounds for a four-pound suit.
G raoious 1 but how did the society man manage to
got the suit ? By “ knowing” Mr. Smith and Mr.
itobinson. Who are they? Men who pay the
tailor. Well? Well, last time Mr. Smith and Mr.
Robinson ordered a suit, he accompanied them,
and ordered his. And the poor tailor thought he
was an intimate friend of Mr. Smith and Mr.
Kobinson. Exactly. Ah 1 But has the society
man no occupation? Yes. What? Trying to
marry. Whom ? The young girl who has the pug.
But if he marries the girl who has the pug, how
will he support her? He will not support her.
Then how will they get along ? She will support
him. Oh I then he will marry a girl with money ?
Certainly. But will ho contribute nothing toward
the expenses of the family ? Oh, yes. What ? He
will buy meat for the pug. Well I this life of
swindling and expectancy is a rather singular life
l or a gentleman to lead ? No gentleman leads it.
But are not all gentlemen members of society ?
Yes, Then they are society men? Yes, but
But what? All society men are not gentlemen,
darling.
♦ * *
When Mrs Langtry went to Long Branch,
the great watering place, she lodged all the time
in her own private Pullman car, containing par-
lour, bedroom, kitchen, and so on, and having her
own cook and maids. Her swimming costume
was an “Olivette” of blue flannel, which did not
conceal the fact that nature had cast her form in
a generous mould, and she travelled with a long,
free breast stroke through the water “ Mother,
why are angels always little boys and never little
girls ?” The mother, after long reflection : “ To
avoid scandals in Paradise, my child I” — Ten
years ago two loving hearts in England were
separated by a little quarrel owing to the mis-
carriage of an explanatory letter. He left home,
married : she stayed in England and married, and
now both are once more free. Ho has eight chil-
dren and the jaundice, and she seven and the
dyspepsia, and neither has any idea of ever marry-
ing again. Truth may be stranger than Action,
but it is not so romantic A new style of hat
is called the “ Maud Muller.” Ah, yes ;
“ And sweet Maud Muller paused that day,
And raked the judge instead of the hay.”
Antipodean.—Bridget; “Well, I like your ap-
pearance, and the wages you offer will suit—have
yob any references from your last servant?”
Mistress: “No 1 I have not, I’m sorry to say.”
Bridget: “Oh I then I couldn’t think of accepting
the appointment.” He was an old fellow who
had just buried his fourth, and was accosted by a
friend, who unaware of his bereavement, asked
« How’s yer wife, Captain Plonjogger ?” To which
the old boy replied gravely, “Well, to tell you
the truth, I’m out of wives Just now.”....
It you have occasion to say a lady resembles Mrs.
Langtry, be explicit in explaining in what way....
A young woman recently died from blood-poison-
ing caused by wearing tight shoes. It does seem
that death or bare feet stares woman in the face
aA terrible and inconvenient alternatives....Cau-
tion to girls. Never go out walking with a pug.
It affords mashers a chance of saying when you
pass, “What a beautiful creature!" And when
you turn red in the face, and mutter something
about “insulting cads,” the mashers will take off
their hats gracefully and bow, and say, “Pardon
me, madame, but I was alluding to the dog.”....
Mother: “Now, Nellie, tell me who this gentle
man is.” Nellie: “That ain’t no gentleman—that’s
papa.”
Rich and rare were the gems she wore,
And a something or other in her hand she bore;
A remark which, we think, was made before
Bjr a bard who is now (alas!) no Moore.
A lady lost a purse containing £200 between Hay
and vvagga. It was found by an engine driver,
and returned to her. She lost another containing
£180—she seems to make a business of losing
purses. This also was returned to her. And yet
they say this is not an honest country. If
so, why did the finders of these purses return
them ? Possibly because they were afraid the
notes were spurious. Or, perhaps they were
in, the purse-finding business!.
It is a generally diffused idea that news-
paper men are greedy. Some hermit should go
through the land and dissipate this calamitous
notion. But he needn’t go out among the selectors
of Victoria. They have abandoned the unjust
thought. The West Brothers are to be thanked
for that. They are running their paper simply
and solely in the interest of the agriculturists and
grape-growers of the Gomlburn valley. Personal
gain they covet not. This generous philanthropy
was not taken in the spirit with which it was
avowed at the start. Some were base enough
to think that the West Brothers meant to pay for
their victuals, and reasoned out a very strong
case against the avowal. But now they are
crushed. Cousland, who runs the Chateau Tah-
bilk Vineyard, has written a pamphlet on grape-
growing, and sent it last week to the noble Wests
to print and publish, stating that they could pay
themselves out of the receipts and keep all the
after profits. If the Wests were grasping, there
was their chance I But they rose triumphant
over the temptation, and are quite satisfied to let
the literary Cousland pay for the -printing and
keep the profits for his own use. What could be
nobler ? What finer sample could be given of the
unselfish nature of newspaper men ?
A Christchurch (N.Z.) man bids fair to
scoop the pool for “cheek,” Thirst and impe-
cunlosity are as closely connected as the Siamese
twins. Our graduate in the school of impudence
was standing with a friend outside a public-house.
There was but sixpence between them, and how
best to invest it in alcohol was Just then of more
importance than the approaching visit of the Red-
monds. They were on the point of tossing up
(“sudden death”) to see which would get the
whisky while the other flattened his nose against
the window looking on, when a stranger ap-
proached. One of the friends (a professional) re-
cognised in him a person he had seen at the show
the night before. He addressed him, spoke of the
weather, the crops, the Horwitz trouble, the tight-
ness of money, and—borrowed half-a-crown. Then
he “ shouted ’’ for three, and passed the change and
his original sixpence to his friend, who “shouted ”
in turn. The stranger, doubting the hona fides of
his companions, suddenly remembered that he had
left his wife in the draper’s round the corner, and
begged to be excused. But the “pro.” delicately
suggested to him that, as both friends had
“ shouted,” it would be only in consonance with
the usages of good society if he followed in their
footsteps. He did so, and now, when he hears
people talking of the theatre, he crosses over the
street.
Miller is nothing if not a versatile athlete
He has announced his willingness to deposit £50 to
make matches with athletes in Australia. Amongst
the items specified are: Wrestling any six men
(Grajco-Ro i an style), wrestling mixed styles,
fencing with foils and singlesticks, lifting heavy
weight with one hand from the shoulder at arm’s
length, and meeting any six men in boxing,
wrestling (two styles), fencing, singlestick and
foils, and lifting dumb-bells, the six athletes
accepting the challengs to divide the above exer-
cises, and the one winning the most exercises, viz.,
the six athletes combined or himself, to be declared
the victor. He also Intends sending a challenge to
England and America offering to meet anyone on
Australian or New Zealand soil, in a contest with
boxing gloves for £500 to £1000 a side, and will
allow anyone accepting the challenge £100 as
expenses.
Re Layoock’s challenge, an English paper
says:—“ One of the unknown quantities which no
system of algebra can successfully grapple with
is the inordinate confidence of some scullers in
their own powers. Everyone was surely under
the impression that the Australian scullers had be-
come thoroughly convinced, through the severe
lesson taught them, of the great superiority of
Hanlan the Canadian. Everyone seems to have
been wrong, for haycock has expressed his anxiety
to scull Hanlan a match for £1000 a side, providing
Hanlan will scull on the Parramatta. Laycock
fancies he can beat Hanlan on that course, but on
no other. It is a peculiar Infatuation, for the rest
of the rowing world remains unshaken in its belief
that variations of courses make no difference to
the Toronto man.”
When worn down and ready to take your
bed, Hop Bitters is what you need to relieve you.
See.
The well-known American writer, Grace
Greenwood, (Mrs. Llppincott) is engaged in writing
a biography of Queen Victoria, for the use of good
girls. By the way we are writing one of John
Brown for good boys.
On 27th July the whole of the bicycle re-
cords, both amateur and professional, from fifty-
one to one hundred miles inclusive, were consider-
ably reduced, at the Crystal Palace, by Mr. F. R.
Fry, of Clifton. Mr. Douglas-Smlth, of Oxford
University B.C., started with Fry, but was com-
pelled to retire at 43 miles. The last-named was
then alternately led by Messrs. F. Adam, C. D.
Yesey, and J. D. Butler, and, keeping up a steady
pace of 3mln. 30sec a mile all the way, completed
nis self-imposed task in 5h. 50min. 5 2-5sec. The
previous records for this distance were those of
G. W. Waller (professional) 5h. 51min. 7sec., and J.
B. Tierney (amateur) Oh. 29min. 57set. Both of
these were done in a building.
'At the commencement of the English
pigeon-shooting season it was thought that the
question “ Live clay or dead ? ” would be decided
before its close; but such a result has not been
arrived at. Numerous competitions at the clay
pigeons have taken place at the Ranelagh Club,
and, except that competitors stand some half-dozen
yards nearer the traps than they do at live birds,
results appear pretty much the same. Nine suc-
cessive kills (i.e. breaks) have been accomplished,
and nine out of ten are frequent. The well-known
pigeon-shot, Cholmondeley Pennell, now holds the
club challenge cup for pigeon-shooting.
At an agricultural show up South, the
other day, a bank manager and a publican were
told off as the poultry and pigeon judges. The
local funny man, in order to best them, sent in a
pair of very outside tumbler pigeons, with the
cage marked “ Oriental Rollers, non-competitive.”
When the judges came to the snare, they both
looked knowing, and said the banker to the licenssd
victualler, “ By Jove, old man, it’s the first pair of
Oriental Rollers I’ve seen in the colony. It is a
Elty they are not entered, for they are certainly the
est pair of pigeons in the show ; anyway, we will
commend them for a special,” which they did. Just
then a miller, who is reckoned the Johnny-know-
all of the town, strolled up, and upon being asked
what he thought of them, at first said that he had
never heard of “ Oriental Rollers,” but after the
publican explained that they rolled by spreading
the tail every time they turned and swept the
ground every revolution, the man of flour ex-
claimed, “Well. I’ll ”&c., &c. II “I ought to
know them ; they are the very kind my old man
kept in Tasmania.” This bit of judging knocks
spots off even the blood stock judging at our
recent Agricultural Show.
KATE GREENAWAY GONE MAD.
An Escape.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I stood beside the railway-gate.
And saw come thundering down
The train, a-choke with living freight,
From out the lighted town.
I waited till it passed me by.
Rolling thick smoke-clouds back,
And then, in seeming safety, I
Stepped ©ut upon the track.
I reached the middle of the line,
When rang a sudden shout;
Pausing, I saw the gateman sign.
And heard his cry—“ Look out!”
Then, glancing swiftly to my right,
I saw a Monster come—
A head, fire scattering to the night,
Two glaring eyes of doom 1
I stood as frozen to the spot.
While nearer those eyes gleamed;
Like one a hideous dream cannot
Shake off in sleep, I seemed.
Nearer—nearer—the Terror came,
I seemed to feel his breath;
And (strange I) as it grew close became
More mild the face of Death I
Silent and calm, I seemed to wait
With all but sadness gone,
Like one who sees another’s fate
A voidless—not his own.
The fatal moment comes at last!
Dear life must I resign ?
And straight the train goes shrieking past
Upon another line I
E. B. LOUGHRAN.
Melbourne.
THE HUMOURIST OF THE SffPAm
digging up his jokel* o^’
OUR AMANUENSIS.
It is the middle of the night,
The dead mysterious vast.
When dreams and phantoms walk-the dream.
And phantoms of the past.
There is no noise no little noise
Not even the ghost of sound;
So still it is one almost stops
To hear the world turn round.
We have a very fearful cold.
And so we cannot write;
But we have gone to bed, and drink
Prom morning until night.
We’ve an Amanuensis, he
Has eyes of flaming red;
A dreadful sight it is to see
Them rolling in his head.
He has five noses and four ears—
His sense of hearing’s sound—
We lie and laugh ourselves to fits
To see them wobble round.
It is the middle of the night.
And we will mention here
That we have not by any chance
Been sober for a year.
And, further, we will— hie !—remark
Now that we have the floor.
It is not our intention to
Be sober any more.
So our Amanuensis writes
While we dictate and drink—
A very nice division, this,
Of labour, don’t you think ?
He also is, we grieve to say,
A very drunken elf;
And— hie— by thunder we must laugh-
lie’s writing this himself!
It is the office of every virtue to perfect
that of which it is the virtue. For example, it is
the virtue of a modern semi-detached villa to be
as badly built as possible, and not be seen to be go:
it is the virtue of an insured collier not to appear
unseaworthy, before she does so to the crew, as she
is foundering, and it is the virtue of butcher’s
meat, dairyman’s milk, grocer’s pickles and go
forth, not to appear unlit for human consumption.
In the same way moral virtue, or the virtue of
some C.M.G.’s, Sunday School Superintendents, or
Benevolent Asylum directors, is that which makes
them appear to be one thing to the world, whilst
in reality they are another.
DISENCHANTMENT.
For some little time I have held the intention
To lead a more circumspect life
(’Mong the people I mix with, I’m sorry to mention,
Contempt for religion is rife);
So I thought it were well if I followed a system
Of making a diligent search
For examples of virtue and lessons of wisdom
From such as belong to “ the church.”
There’s, in Melbourne, a parson whose views are
quite awful—
Or, so pious people aver,
They’ve made up their minds that his doctrine’s
unlawful—
(’Tis Strong, as you, doubtless, infer.)
When I learned that the “ saints ” had, with sorrow
decided
His terrible deeds to lay bare,
And a “ meeting ” to hold on this monster mis-
guided,
Thought I “ now I'd better go there."
In a church they all met, to discuss his sedition
(’Twaa during the course of last week);
As I entered 1 thought of my sinful condition,
Yet, tried to look noly and meek.
So 1 walked down the aisle with my eyes on the
celling
Hard fixed, in a sanctified stare: u
My heart beat with joy, for 1 couldn’t help feeling
How blissful it was to be there.
Soon I took a look round at the parsons assembled
(My beacons of goodness and grace); , ...
But, I thought, “ Well, their virtue is strangely dis-
sembled—
It doesn’t appear in the face ; ...
Still, of course, there’s no doubt the self-satisnca
smirking
Which sinners, like I, would distrust,
Is merely a sign of the ‘ spirit ’ that’s working
Inside of their bosoms so just.”
I rejoiced to discover each one was “ my brother,
But yet, ’twas apparent ere long .
That though they professed that they loved o
another.
The feeling was not very strong; . . n( ]
For when they’d disposed of some singing auu
preaching, . „
And straightway proceeded to “biz,
A “ brother ” got up and fell foul of %
teaching,
Because it was livelier than Ms.
Every word he had said was contorted and twisted
(I listened in silent surprise), ... v m *hprt"
And, meanwhile, all the other dear hrot
assisted
By showing the white of their eyes.
I sat there, until I was filled with misgiving,
Exclaiming: “ it’s wonderful quite, ,, , an d
Why, I always thought Christian were ki
forgiving, ,
And never descended to 4 spite.
My mind from that morning in doubt is enshrouded
About the full meaning of “ grace, w 0 'er-
For all my bright hopes were with sorro
clouded,
As sadly I went from that place; .. nner ,
And I said to the missus that evening, at di
44 1 went to the 4 meeting ’to-day,
And I think, for the present, IU still be a W*
If saints are such people aa they.


The Furniture Column.
Just make a note of this.
OUR REVISED £70 LIST.
For the sum of j£70 prompt net cash,
You can furnish a house as follows:
DRAWING ROOM,
£
Full suite of nine articles, namely:—
Couch, lady’s easy chair, arm chair,
pin
and
and six small chairs
Centre table
Plate glass back sideboard ...
Gilt frame pier glass
Pair oil paintings
Cornice pole, with rings,
brackets
Lamp
Eight-day striking clock
Ornaments
Fender and irons
16 yards fancy matting
Velvet pile hearthrug
Door slip
DINING ROOM.
Austrian suite, consisting of couch, two
arm chairs, and 6 small chairs
Oval dining table
Cheffonier
Matting
Hearthrug
Fender and irons
Door slip
BEDROOM No. 1.
Handsome four post (4ft. flln.) tubular
bedstead
Pair palliasses
Wool flock mattress
Bolster
Two feather pillows ...
Polished cedar seven-drawer chest of
drawers
Towel rail washstand
White and gold toilet set
Pern water oaraffe
Toilet table with drawer
Toilet glass
Table toilets
Two cane chairs
Rocking chair .. .. *
Matting
Door sup
BEDROOM No. 3.
Half tester bedstead ...
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Flock pillow
Chest of drawers
Washstand and set
Water caraffe
Toilet glass
C. S. chair
Matting
Door sup
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress •
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Table
Glass
Chair
Matting
KITCHEN.
Table with drawer
Pine safe
Two chairs
12 meat plates
12 pudding plates
12 cheese plates
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Meat dishes, Is, Is 9d, 2s 8d, 3s
Pie dish
China tea pot
Six China cups and saucers
Six China plates
China sugar basin
China milk jug
China butter dish
China slop basin
Six China egg cups
Two bread and butter plates
Bell-top cruet
Set of table mats
Pair cut salt cellars
Set of jugs
Pair of decanters
Cut-glass water bottle
Six cut wines
Six cut tumblers
Six soda glasses
Six Mosley’s dinner knives
Six nickel dinner forks
Six Mosley’s dessert knives
Six nickel dessert forks
Six tea spoons
Six dessert spoons
Two table spoons
Kettle
Boiler
Saucepans, 3s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s
Frying pan
Grid-iron
Tea-pot
Tea-caddy
Coffee-pot
Colander
Bread grater
Wash basin
Dipper
Tubs, 5s, 6s 6d
Buckets, Is 9d, 2s
Wash-board
Two candlesticks
Baking dishes, 8d, lOd
Pepper caster
Flour dredge
Cake tin "
Flour barrel
Set skewers
Bread crock
Nutmeg grater "
Maat stand
Cook’s fork
Egg beater
Knife box “
Paste board and roller
Patent bcx iron or pair of flat irons ...
Pair bellows
Hair broom ”,
Hand broom ’ tt
Dust pan
Scrub brush ",
Knife board and polish ... ”!
Set shoe brushes
Kitchen spoon
Canister .
If you are about to furnish, write for a copy
our new book, “ A Bulletin or Manifesto.”
Orders by Post—large or small —receive prom
attention.
Persons residing at a distance, or any to whom
personal visit of inspection would be inconvenlei
desirous of leaving the selection of goods to i
may rely upon a faithful attention to their wist
and interest in the selection.
Our Lists are arranged with a view to facilit*
the selection of suitable goods, so that, if deslrt
a house can be completely and judiciously ft
rushed without the trouble of a personal visit.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Burnishing Arcade,
4*6 61QR6E STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
The original Solomon had 700 wives. But
then they were his own wives. That’s why he was
never stuck for damages.
This was the tuneful conundrum put by
St. Andrew’s choir last Sunday. “Wherewithal
shall a young man cleanse his way?” Seems a
matter of doubt just now, but If the old man de-
clines to ante-up, we suppose the young man will
have to work (or wait) it out. Hor—witz the use
of getting a verdict ?
Mb. DhCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.— Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HORKHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold’s”
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all Hie requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors from rfahlert’s
Hotel.— Advt.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Queen Victoria is 4ft. Sin. high. Prince
Albert was 15in. taller.
King “Thoroughgood,” of Rukukuroo
country, Duke of York Island, is a fine old canni-
bal He retails man in joints. When remon-
strated with the other day, by Missionary Brown,
for having a body hanging up in his verandah, he
replied: “What can I de ? him eat my motherl”
HOKWITZ v. HORWITZ.
Songs of Solomon. New version.
He brought me to the banqueting house (Albury),
and his banner over me was love.
My vineyard, which is mine, is before me, but
thou, 0 Solomon, must have five thousand, and
those that keep the fruit thereof live hundred.
Dr. Moorhonse told the people in the Town
Hall, on the 17th, that he never belonged to a club
of any sort, for, before he was married, he was
fonder of his books than of any club. “Such a
dear duck of a man!” sighed a lady in the gallery;
“ it is since we got married that my hubby has got
doubly fond of his books and his club. Men are
all different!”
The Comte de Chambord died of an
omelette soufild. So the French nation has lost
what might have been a second Heliogabalus. And
this glorious glutton was venerated by millions as
a sacred symbol of monarchy. What a splendid
advertisement he would have made for a full and
plenty restaurant I Representative of the right
divine of Kings! Curious eating house they have six
feet under the ground. A leg of his Lordship , a
slice of his Majesty. What irreverent gourmands
those worms are!
Besides the enormous monument which is
to be erected over John Brown’s grave in Crathie
churchyard, the Queen intends to “remember”
him with a cairn on one of the neighbouring
mountains, while at Windsor it is in contemplation
to place a brass on the walls of the Prince Con-
sort’s Memorial Chapel, and a tablet, setting forth
his virtues and deploring his loss, in the nave of
St. George’s. Mr. Boehm (O, shade of Phidias!)
has submitted to Her Majesty a bust of the de-
ceased servitor, and also a statue somewhat larger
than life, which last (a regular Brown study) is
destined for the hall at Balmoral. What is all this
but the apotheosis of Flunkeydom I
The Queen (says Truth) has never for-
gotten the oft-repeated caution of the Duke of
Wellington, “Never let the command of the army
out of your family, madam, if there is anyone of
an age to hold it. ” In accordance with this maxim,
it will be remembered that the Queen was most
anxious to appoint Prince Albert. It is vastly line
to say that royal personages take no pay : but, in
nine eases out of ten, they do take it, and even
when they don’t, there are compensating advan-
tages of various kinds, which make up for their
ostentatious self-denial. Prince Albert received a
salary (and a very good one) as keeper of the
Hound Tower, at Windsor Castle, down to the
hour of his decease.
Kllen Constance, daughter of the African
explorer Sir Samuel Baker, committed suicide in
July. She was found “lying on the bed deluged
with blood.” She tried to open a vein with a pen-
knife, then with a scissors, and, finding death
approaching too slowly, ran down stairs, seized a
short Japanese sword, and wounded herself
mortally in the breast and side. The day before
she had told her father how happy she was in
belonging to the “All Saints’ Sisterhood,” and how
glad she was to have renounced the world. Surgeon
J. W. Ley found her dying. To him she confided
how, having gone to bed at ten, her head throbbing
with pain, she tossed about till one, when she felt
she must get up and kill herself.
The straits to which an illustrious man may
be reduced in Australia have often been a theme
of astonishment. Frequenters of the Flagstaff
Gardens down in West Melbourne must have often
noticed an old man with a cocked nose and clotted
whisker, and greasy coat and dilapidated panta-
loons, looking wistfully towards the Bay. That
was Louis Nugent! In the 11th century, his an-
cestors were in possession of the greater part of
the North of Ireland. But his empire has passed
away, and the other day,, when a policeman laid
hands on him as a vagrant, it was found that the
tallen monarch was lined, not with coat and waist-
coat, but with folds of brown paper. This is the
saddest fate that has as yet been chronicled of an
Irish king. Poor Louis! Instead of the purple
and fine linen which his loyal subjects would, in
other circumstances, be only too happy to wrap
about him, he has had to content himself with
brown paper. Son of King Louis, go up among
the six hundred!
For nearly 20 years it has been the mission
of George Du Maurier to catch the manners of the
Lnghsh aristocracy as they rise, and fix them in
the pages of London Punch. In artistic satire of
the most refined kind he has no rival. He seldom
limns the lower orders, because he loves what is
graceful and beautiful, and they do not as a rule
afford those features. His women are glorious
creatures, and his children the ideal of breeding.
He draws from models, and it is understood his
own wife furnishes the idea of beauty always
dominant in his leading female figures. Married
men will easily understand how this has come
about. In dress his accuracy is most scrupulous,
to the smallest detail, and there is no truer
murorof London fashions from week to week
than Punch. Many years ago. Du Maurier lost
one eye. All his work has been since done with
hut one : and strain upon it in fine work is
saved by his pen and ink sketches being made
much larger than they are published, and then
reduced by photography. He never draws faces
to be recognised.
The late Tom Thumb’s memory was very
deficient and he had no conversational powers. He
never read books or newspapers, but employed all
ms leisure in smoking or playing billiards. He
yearly loved a horse, over diamonds he went
wild, and at one time he owned a great many dia-
monds and horses. He smoked several strong
cigars a day, but he never was an intemperate
winter. His married life was truly a happy one,
the dwarf couple had more pleasant conjugal re-
lations than the average of grown-up people. His
m Ie how to handle him; she had tact, and
everything went smoothly. He was a per fee man
pnysically, and had more strength than the average
mu-grown man, but his muscles were flabby be-
he would not exercise. He would at first
W I ? r ride when at leisure, but the riding he did
hn because wherever he went a crowd of
ooys followed him. And he could not walk much;
it was difficult for him to keep up with an ordinary
an d then there was the usual interfering
ho o ,Ppmtmg at, and sometimes jibing him. So
ffro 8at p own ’ 8m oked, played billiards, ate, and
TW ta f ■ „ He was always healthy and pleasant.
118 80r t of existence could have but one end.
Mr. Service is about the worst man in the
fih ‘,9™ n Assembly to whom a funereal topic
he entrusted. Nature has not cut him out
™. 0 mourning business at all. Even the Chief
nf can exhibit more of the external signs
n . h “J e Possession of a sympathetic heart. The
Hmil ni k"t he moved the adjournment of the
niBmK as a tribute of respect to the memory of the
S er for Emerald Hill, who had died that
tho™. 11 *’ a listener could not well tell whether
ww2 lov ? r . s Poke in gladness or in sadness, or
THb+^ er h ati any feeling under his voice at all.
iittl 1 ™ 6 of a customary thing ” rounded up his
of n ance ’ and he dropped to his seat with the air
of o ™ aa who was ready to do it again in respect
li, n - a “ y othov body. So passed Macgr-gor from
history. A quarter of a century ago he
he tokif 5 lr .Jfh on Emerald Hill, and, six years ago,
H «PP ed the poll in Fitzroy, leaving even Dr.
use nf A? mmoat the popularity which a judicious
hot *u blr £h had won. It is a pity his name did
House with a little more regret than
LQ e customary thing.”
Strathmore family is one of the oldest
I'ammiof 1 families of Scotland. The heads of the
ted h een Earls since 1423, and have inhabi-
genina® of Glam is, made famous by the
lalgpiw In 1455 Lady Strathmore,
accused of conspiracy by witchcraft against
the life of James IV. of Scotland, was burnt in the
Grassmarket, Edinburgh. Her son, driven desper-
ate by persecution, flung himself over a rock and
perished. It is said the Lady of Strathmore
cursed her family for abandoning her in her dis-
tress. For the past four generations, there has
bG6n a mystery at Glamis Castle which no one had
ever been able to fathom. Rumours of a more or
less uncanny nature have been associated with the
place for nearly 100 years. Four Earls of Strath-
more have seated themselves in ancestral state at
Westminster, and yet all the while the real Earl,
the eldest of the family, was alive, hidden in the
vast old feudal palace of Glamis. He died only
last year, aged 92 years, and he was a monster. He
stood eight feet in height. His head and the upper
part of his body resembled a toad. His skin was
marked with black and white blotches, and his
hands and feet were webbed. He could neither
speak nor hear, but his eyes were bright and wild.
He never showed signs or reason; and in order to
avmd legal difficulties, and painful revelations,
this horror was hidden in a part of the building
prepared for the purpose. His gaolers were paid
handsome annuities to keep silent. Last year the
poor wretch died, and the secret has come out
owing to difficulties concerning the disposal of his
remains.
The marriage of the royal bankrupts, the
Duke and Duchess of Teck —by the way, wouldn’t
“ Tick ” be better ?—was made almost a national
event. They were started in life with royal pomp,
and had little more than an annual Parliamentary
grant of £6000 on which to support it. They kept
the best of company/’ and, as the Duchess was a
trifle jealous of the Princess of Wales, before
whose coming she had ruled in London drawing-
rooms, the mode of life at Kensington Palace was
made more costly tuan that at Marlborough House,
and the tall footmen who wore the Teck livery
looked down on their brethren who served the
Heir Apparent. Moreover, the Duchess resented
the laws of the German Court, by which her hus-
band, born of a morganatic marriage, had no social
status, and she put on royal airs to hide the defect.
Then, again, she loves to be charitable, patronises
Cottage Homes, subscribes to Missionary Funds;
and, while charity covers a multitude of sins, it
makes holes in small incomes. So the Tecks kept
up a contest which eclipsed the efforts of
Becky Sharp to live on nothing a year. The
crash was inevitable, and it is now at hand.
Apropos, the Duchess is known in aristocratic
society as “ Fat Mary,” (how shocking 1”) and has
set the example of riding the tricycle. Now the
Queen has ordered two machines for her young
granddaughters, the Princesses of Hesse; the
Princess of Wales gave her eldest daughter one
for her birthday present; the Princess Louise
rides, and hundreds of ladies have followed the
fashion. When the Teck manage was cleaned out,
Her Majesty, at the last moment, withdrew from
the Duchess of Teck’s auction the sedan-chair of
Queen Charlotte, and various other family relics,
which were to be offered to the highest bidder.
The other household goods, plate, and china, in
spite of the fact that the bill-posters had the advan-
tage of putting up their auction placards on
Kensington Palace itself, where the sale was held,
fetched low prices.
Few men possess to an adequate extent the
gift of forgetfulness And yet without a good
measure of this gift it is almost Impossible to deal
fairly with what we want to lemember. Nearly
every man who addressed an audience last week in
Melbourne was, no matter how far out of the field
his real topic lay, an advocate or denunciator of
the Rev. Charles Strong. Not that the lecturers
explicitly alluded to Strong, but that in their com-
mendations and dislikes of various aspects of their
subjects they showed they lived in the Strong
atmosphere, and could be counted on in that
peculiar discussion. Even Charles Strong himself
seemed unable to lay the thesis aside for its proper
time and place. We say “even,” because to him
above all others the thesis should have had mea-
sured proportions and a fixed location. In his
address to the working men about their Spitting
Room, he worked in a great deal about the “ nar-
rowness of professing Christians,” and that sort
of charity which missed the hearts of the denizens
of Little Bourke-street. Some days after, in his
lecture at Footscray, on Dean Stanley, he made
the salient points of the Dean’s character pegs on
which to hang the garments of his own dispute.
Until a man can forget everything but his imme-
diate subject, he should not, if loyal to his subject
or to his own after-fame, touch it at all. We do
not say that such lecturers choose subjects which
shall serve the purposes of private pegs. The
fault appears to be a misfortune instead of an
offence. They can’t forget. “ We’ll have no more
feuds as to whether resident or non-resident fellows
shall have precedence in this house,” proclaimed
the authorities of Oxford at a time when the pul-
pits were turned into platforms of recrimination
on the subject. To keep off temptation, texts
were picked for the Sunday discourses, which it
was thought impossible to manipulate into pegs.
“And Abraham begat Isaac,” began a fiery old
residentist on the next Sunday. “ Well, you see,
my brethren, that this text forces upon us the
consideration that Abraham was a residentist, for
he must have been staying at home when he begat
Isaac!” Until a man can forget, we hold he can’t
remember.
Even Dr. Youl, the Melbourne coroner,
has fafien a victim to it. Removed, as he is, from
the wars of the living, from the bugling and fug-
ling of a theatrical race, and with his eyes directed
only on the cadavera washed in upon the banks
between which the stream of life rolls turgidly
and muddily, he should be the last to be affected
by disgust at a spectacle which to those in the
swim is a frequent cause of closing of eyes and
blocking of ears. We all know the man with a lot
of Christian names. We have known him in the
jackets and pantaloons of ever so many people.
But we have let him “ rip.” Provided he paid his
way, we did not give a cent, as to whether or not
he had all the names since Adam before his
Inherited designation of Bung. We “ didn’t use ” to
blame him for these Christian names, any more
than we blamed him for his red head, or any more
than we blamed him for ogling the girls. We
looked at him as a fragment of human nature,
and regarded those who looked on him with
aversion because of his Christian names as
persons suffering from Christianophobia. That’s
a bad complaint, and a very prevalent one among
a certain class, and we believe it comes from a
defective mental drainage. Well, Dr. Youl has
fallen a victim to it. A little girl of 17 years, deaf
and dumb, was fished up out of the Yarra on the
13th inst. No one knew how she got in, but Charles
Henry Fortunatus Beckwith had the privilege of
first seeing her in the water. Charles Henry
couldn’t swim, and he therefore let her swim.
When C.H.F.B. told this, the coroner was instantly
seized with the complaint referred to. “ Such a
list of names I ” cried the coroner. “ I think you
have an action against your godfather and god-
mother. If they had taught you to swim instead
of giving you all these names they might have
made you good for something.” We don’t see why
the C.H.F. is an aggravation of the offence of B.,
but to those suffering from Dr. Youl’s disease It
somehow always is. Would it, however, help to
restore the doctor if Beckwith, the printer,
observed that he would rather bear the whole of
them duplicated than the single appellation of his
denunciator? We don’t know, but are sure the
printer would. “ Yowl,” some people will persist
in caUing the coroner.
• • <
“In this colony,” said the Rev. Charles
Strong at a recent public meeting, “we have no
aristocracy.” A couple of ladies, Graham Berry,
and the magnate of the Age, were the only persons
who objected to the sentiment. “Not so much
for uttering it,” said the great journalist, “ we all
utter it. But Strong seems to believe it. And
there’s me and Berry I” The many literary
friends of Captain H. Morin-Humphreys, of Mel-
bourne, will be sorry to hear of the death of Mrs.
Humphreys, which took place on 10th inst By
the ’Frisco, mail there arrived in Sydney, Mr.
Charles Macabe, who comes here in the interest
of several railroads, the directorates of which mean
to induce ail Australians to travel home via
America. Mr. Macabe brings with him a huge
lot of advertising matter, and has for distribution
a most fascinating “ Langtry card.”
The Hon. and Rev. Adelbert Anson Canon,
rector of Woolwich and son of the late Earl of
Lichfield, was offered the vacant Bishopric of
Central Africa, As the last prelate' was eaten by
an alligator and his predecesser by the natives, the
rector declined the promotion. Better be a
corporal in the Life Guards than a captain in the
Murrumbidgee Rangers Earl Granville is de-
scribed as being straight, slim, small, symmetrical,
and seventy. Pink cheeks, gray hair, and all the
appearance of a mummied “masher.” Out of
50 candidates for the medical degree of the Dublin
College of Physicians recently, a daughter of the
late celebrated Tlohborne counsel. Dr. Kenealy,
took highest place. There was only one other
lady competitor. ...“Bleak House” and “Lawn
House,” both at Broadstalrs, are for sale. At Bleak
House, Dickens spent many a summer holiday, and
within its walls much of his early work was
written. It has become known as Bleak House by
association only, for its real name is Port House.
Lawn House, hard by, Was another of Dickens’s
holiday residences, which he occupied on several
occasions before he took Fort House. A con-
siderable portion of “The Old Curiosity Shop”
was written at Lawn House Bismarck, accord-
ing to an Orleanlst paper, has said that there are
but two men in France whom he fears, the Comte
de Paris as a politician, and the Due d’Aumale as a
warrior Mademoiselle Alphonsine, the once
famous opera-bouffe singer or Paris, is dead. She
weighed more than two hundred and fifty pounds,
yet was esteemed the lightest-footed and most
graceful woman on the stage “ General” Booth,
of the Salvation Army, has a marriageable son.
Miss Charlesworth, the young and devoted lady
whose enthusiasm has just led to her being locked
up in Switzerland, is a marriageable young lady,
and has a fortune of ten thousand pounds. It is
announced that she is soon to become the daughter-
in-law of “ General” Booth. She is the daughter
of an Anglican clergyman from whom, judging by
the tone of her father’s recent letters to the Times,
she has beenpractically kidnapped by Booth.. .The
Prince of Wales picks the banjo, Princess Louise
strums a guitar, the Prince of Wales paws ivory,
and the Duke of Edinburgh chokes the goose : m
plain words, he is a fiddler. If anything should
occur to break up the present monopoly the royal
family hold in the monarchy business, they can
take the road as the himpenal quartet, and do a
good business in Australia A scientist declares
that if pointed shoes continue to be worn, there
will soon be born a race of people without toes.
On with the pointed shoes,, then I Think what a
sweet boon utter toelessness would be to a man
tormented with corns... .Again it is stated that
there are reasons which will compel Sara Bern-
hardt to leave the stage for a brief period Oscar
Wilde told a Liverpool audience that while off the
Pacific coast of the United States ho saw a seal
basking on a rock, on whose back was painted the
announcement of a manufacturer of tooth-powder.
— The ex-Empress Eugenie is described by a
writer who has lately seen her as “ a rather stately
woman in deep black, not a bit of colour anywhere,
about her eyes the twinkling ripples that years
make, around her mouth the deeper drawn lines
of sorrow, a sallow face, and hair with grey in it.”
— Mrs. Langtry has confided in a reporter to the
extent of saying : “ My personal appearance, I am
forced to acknowledge, was a very important ad-
junct to my ‘drawing powers,’ as the expression
goes in theatrical parlance. But I really had
rather attract attention as an artiste than for any
other reason.” Princess Louise is going to send
a number of her paintings, both oil and water
colour, to the Boston exposition next October.
An American paper says there seems to be a
settled determination on the part of the royal
family to bring about war between the States and
England The Boston Herald Is inclined to
suspect that Mrs. Langtry’s notion, that a married
lady can be adequately chaperoned by her “ maid”
and a club man protected by his valet, while they
are travelling around together in a private oar, is
too innocent to have been picked up in America.
— At a recent Royal Academy soiree, visitors who
had not before seen Mr. Tennyson were struck by
the shrewd, humorous, and altogether worldly ex-
pression which he wore. Mr. Matthew Arnold,
too, had a curiously unsplritual look Lord
William Beresford, has again broken his collar-
bone in two places. It is difficult to believe that
two sound places could have been found in his
collar-bone, as this is the fourth time in as many
months that he has met with a similar accident
During the night after poor Webb’s disappearance
in the Niagara rapids, wagers were laid in New
York that lie was alive, and that his motive was to
create a furore of excitement which would operate
to his advantage on a repetition of the feat
Osmond Tearle, the blackguard the cool cruelty of
whose letters to the wife just divorced from him
caused so much sensation, has now married Minnie
Conway, the lady who recently got a divorce from
our old friend Levy the eornetist. People are now
speculating how long it will be ere Osmond shows
Minnie his heels The Pope is a poet—but has so
far confined his effusions to the Latin tongue.
He hasn’t yet given us sonnets to the eyebrows of
Yolande, or anything of that kind. Thus the St.
James’ Gazette :—“ We have looked through the
volume of verses just published,” it says, “ and we
can say, with absolute certainty, that any average
Eton boy could give points to his Holiness in the
matter of Latin verses. But, of course, as the
work of a Pope it will have a certain circulation;
audit is, at least, as well worth perusing as the
little volumes which formed the stock of all the
Milan and Florence booksellers in the last century.”
— At the battle of Ulundi where Cetewayo’s
fortunes paled before those of Usibepu, the former
lost the malacca cane which Wales had given him,
and the three-handled mug the gift of the Queen,
out of which he had been wont to quaff his Old
Tom There was a waxwork exhibition in Paris
just after the Czar’s coronation. The managers
ran short of wax, and melted down the figure of
a Nihilist leader to make up the Czar. A gloomy
omen—the Czar a Nihilist. And yet this & very
likely what that gorgeous potentate will be in a
short time, if Nihilism and nothing mean the same
thing.


o
P E R A
H
USE
Lessee Mr. W. J. Wilson
Sub-Lessee Slg. S. Majeroni
Acting Business Manager.. Mr. S. Genese
THIRD WEEK,
BRILLIANT and PRONOUNCED SUCCESS
of the New Comedy,
AN ARABIAN NlGhT,
or Haroun-al-Raschld and his Mother-in-Law.
THIS EVENING, and until further notice,
The Celebrated Comedian.
MR. POLK MR. POLK
assisted by his charming and talented wife,
Mrs. JULIA A. POLK Mrs. JULIA A. POLK.
Supported by the Best Comedy Company in
the colonies,
in a Modern Society Comedy, in 4 acts, entitled
AN ARABIAN NIGHT,
or Haroun-al-Raschid and his Mother-In-Law.
Private Boxes, £2 2s : Dress Circle, 5s; Stalls, 3s,
PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Box office now open at Huenerbein’s, 411 Geo.-st.
Tickets for sale at Roberts’s, adjoining Theatre.
G
A I E T V THEATRE
Lessee and Manager. .Herb Bandmann.
BEAUDET, JOHN L. HALL, JESSIE GREY
and
BANDMANN COMBINATION.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
Byron’s famous Drama, in 4 acts, of
BLOW FOR BLOW.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,
John L. Hall’s chef-d’oeuvre,
OUR GIRLS.
In active preparation, a new local Temperance
Drama, written especially for the Gaiety, entitled
“ SYDNEY LIFE ; or, a Roaring Trade.”
Box Office at Paling’s and Gaiety Theatre, where
seats can be booked daily.
Admission —Orchestra Chairs (reserved), at
Paling’s, 4s : Stalls, 3s ; Circle, Family Circle, 2s :
ENLARGED PIT, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Mesqrove.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
BLAND HOLT’S TRULY GIGANTIC
DRAMATIC COMBINATION,
in the Poetic and Sensational London Drama,
written by Henry Pettltt, Esq., entitled
TAKEN FROM LIFE.
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
Academy of music.
Directress .. Miss Ella Carrington.
EVERY EVENING UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE,
the Musical and Sensational Irish Drama, in 4 acts,
entitled
LEAGUER and LANDLORD.
Characters by Miss Ella Carrington, Miss M. Head-
way, Mrs. T. Forde, Charlie Taylor, Sam. Poole,
G. Melville, H. Stoneham, A. Tasman, B. Brown,
P. Spiller, J. Love, &c., &c., &c.
BEAUTIFUL IRISH SCENERY, by KINCHELA.
The piece Is exceedingly laughable and very sen-
sational, the company one of the best ever seen in
Sydney ; the singing a great deal better than you
hear in the majority of comic operas ; the dancing
is characteristic. The scenery is surprisingly good;
indeed, for effect, the scene, Dogherty’s Ferry by
Moonlight, has never been excelled in Sydney.
Come and judge for youselves.
Orchestra Chairs, 8s; Stalls, 2s; Pit and Balcony, Is.
A much-needed reform—No Fees in Cloak-room.
Business Manager, Mr. A. FULLER.
HALL,
IVT A S O N I C
Lessee and Manager ,. .. Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Home of Incessant Mirth and Music.
The Most Comfortable and Select Lounge in Sydney
ANOTHER SUCCESS ACHIEVED.
FOURTH WEEK, FOURTH WEEK
of
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and
SPECIALITY UNION.
Admission—Fauteuiis,4s; Stalls, 3s; Pit, 2s; Gal., Is.
C. A. MADDICK, Secretary.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS Instructs in VOICE
BUILDING, ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
PARLOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
1CHOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m. ; and at
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 35, Thursday, 3 p.m.,
Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladies and Gentlemen).
Visitors Invited.
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen,
84 HUNTER STREET, opposite Blizabeth-street.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
NOW open for engagement at NYNGBN, near
Railway Station, the
“ ASSEMBLY ROOMS,”
a large and well-appointed HALL. Apply to
HEARD & M'KENN \, Agents.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
TO LET from 5th November next. Terms on
application to Thos. Betright, care of
Elvy and Co., 329 George-street, Sydney ; or the
undersigned,
JAMES B. HICKIE,
Brisbane.
HHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
L ZULU WAR.
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to 31st.
Bundaberg, Maryborough, and Gympie.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WAR1
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
T
HE SYDNEY QUARTERLY MAGAZINE.
The First Number of the above—a new addition
to the periodical literature of New South Wales—
will be issued on 1st OCTOBER, 1883.
Contents :
Introductory •• ••
Australia and the Mother
Country .. •• ••
A Holiday Ramble in Vic-
toria .. •• •• ••
Creedless Churches (a
poem) . • ••
Dr. Badham’s Proposal
English Prejudice—Aus-
tralia’s Misfortune
Federation of the British
Empire versus Federa-
tion of the Colonies ..
Gounod’s “ Faust ” • •
History of New South
Wales, section 1 (Phillip
to Hunter)
Human Fossils
Institution Reform
The Flower of Gold (a
ballad)
The Latest Vagaries on
Pseudo-Science (a Re-
view of “The Soul of
Things,” by Professor
Denton)
The Land of China (Uni-
versity prize poem, 1882 Frank M. Bladen
The Transcontinental
Railway Chas. Davis.
PRICE TWO SHILLINGS.
To be had from all the Leading Booksellers and
from the Publishers,
J. L. HOLMES and CO., 315 PITT-STRBET.
The Hon. G. H. Reid
Rev. E. C. Spicer, M.A.
N. O. Lane
“ N. T. K.”
“ Ajax ”
Eben Atherstone Jones
William Whiston Biggs
Alfred Bourne
“Quiz”
Francis Gillam Holden
Dr. J. Le Gay Brereton
Eben Atherstone Jones
I'ixe XSeliaTole Bvug'g'les I
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24, CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
POE. GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OP BUGGY,
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY
THRIFTIEST Household and
lies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
oal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a Rood draught, and range and barakept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner Are that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle coal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze Are, while it Imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT ; WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
BROOK'SlSEWING COTTONS
'O.E
BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
m
sc
8
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
BROOK’S PATENT
G LAC Ei THREAD
NEW SHOULDER REEL
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
White, Black & all Colours NEW SHOULDER REEL.
—
James MARTIN & compy
3S9 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
The BICYCLE and TBICYCLE DEPOT of New South Wales.
Intending purchasers should write to, or call on us, as we keep a full assortment of Bicycles and
Tricycles always on view, and take pleasure in showing and explaining the different points of merit,
and the advantages of our different machines.
Our Bicycles
are unquestion-
ably at the head
of all competi-
tion, and being
specially de-
signed tor colo-
nial require-
ments, cannot
fail to give
every purchaser
satisfaction.
Our Tricycles
combine every
advantage
claimed by our
competitors,
and have many
most valuable
Improvements
which no other
make possesses.
We CONFIDENTLY and with PLEASURE refer intending purchasers to ANY OF OUR CUSTOMERS.
The ONE-MILE CHAMPIONSHIP of NEW SOUTH WALES was won on a SPECIAL CTUB BICYCLE.
The ONE-MILE CHAMPIONSHIP of ENGLISH B N.G.O. was won on a CLUB RACER.
The Best Four-mile Time Record was made on the CLUB RACER.
The Best Half-mile Time Record was made on the CLUB RACER.
The Best Quarter-mile Time Record was made on the CLUB RACER.
James Martin & Compy., 389 G-eorge-street,. Sydney.
||xxxxxxxxxxkxxxxxxiiigX|j
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
H
OBDERN
«N BROTHPno XY
211, Fitt-street, ERs ’ 4
Our arrivals ex xf
Clyde XX
Rosetta Xx
now open, and comprise-^** 00 XX
A beautiful lot of Brunswick v«. X X
veteens. 200 pieces of this beauH*! X X
fabric, in all colours, now open f or X X
inspection. 10r y °u r XX
100 pieces Crape, in all widths X X
prices, 50 per cent, less than usual n>-,^ Dd Xx
500 pieces of Fancy Dress firfe
the latest colourings and makes MU ’ m Xx
6 eases of new Silks, Satins x x
and Broches, better value than wo ho® 8 * *X
ever before offered. we have XX
vtt ■ 4/ r , a ° d l°t 260 Pieces of Cretonnes I*
XX in the latest designs. Among JX
XX be found a very serviceable: XX
XX price! r0d Cretonne ’ v ery reasonable ||
XX 150 pieces Bl&ck Cashmeres and Mo
XX rinoes,. just the thing for ladies*,' U
XX mourning. m XX
XX 150 pieces Coloured Cashmere nna
XX Mennoes, all the latest shades. and Xx
XX These are a special line, bought at „
XX great discount by our Mr. E. G ® U
XX who is now in London. orn ’ Xx
XX 6 dozen English-made Bonnets. This
XX is a shipment which we are proud nt
ti, ouipixiouD wuiuu vtu are nrnuH
XX being able to offer the ladies $X
XX they are indeed beautiful good
very pick of the London market
XX 150 Broche Mantles for Ladies; grand y£
XX goodsand really worth twice the monev yv
XX we are offering them at. Como and sea yv
XX and judge for yourselves. see |X
XX
XX
XX
500 pairs of Stays, in a variety of fh«
most recently designed shapes, to suit y$
the purse of every one. 0UI1 “X
XX 000 dozen of Ladies’ Hosiery, opened Yy
XX this morning. Grand goods, bought yy
XX from the manufacturerer, and sold at y y
XX Sydney wholesale price. We intend
XX to get through a great lot of hosH \y
XX this season, so we otter you these goods y y
XX at about 15 per cent, cheaper thin we y v
XX have hitherto been able to do. Insner t
XX we a1ik 00d8 f ° r yourselves - That is ail xx
XX Crewel Silks and Transfer Patterns vv
XX A nice little lot of these goods w yy
XX arrived by the Clyde, and now be.ng XX
XX shown fresh from the manufacturer to- yv
XX day.
XX 350 pieces of the Latest Goods in Bib- yv
XX bons, only opened this morning. These yy
XX are another special lot, bought un yy
XX usually cheap, and being sold at a cor- yy
XX rospondingly cheap rate, vv
XX 5 cases assorted Fancy Stuff, com yy
XX prising Ladies’ Ties, Neckerchiefs, Col- y y
VY Jars, Cuffs, Handkerchiefs, Laces Yy
Trimmings. Such choice things voii yv
never saw. Come in TO-DAY. J vy
75 dozen assorted Gloves, new shades yy
for the season ; also, a beautiful little XX
lot ot Gauntlet Gloves, real gems. v v
25 bales good Tapestry Carpets, with XX
borderings to match. These are a grand XX
XX Jot, indeed; we feel proud in offering XV
XX them to you. Several prices and quail- XX
XX ties. yy
XX 15 bales Brussels Carpets, just opened, XX
XX for offices, especially ordered to sunulv yy
XX the Government of N.S.W., with whom XI
XX we have a contract for supplying them XX
XX with ail they want in this department. XX
XX READY-MADE CLOTHING FOR XX
XX 0 HE BOYS. XX
XX 50 cases of Boys’ choice Spring Cloth- XI
XX ing, open TO-DAY. These goods have XX
XX been made in London specially to our XX
XX order, and wc can confidently assure XX
XX the public that nowhere else in the town XX
XX can these be sold at anything near the XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX price we are offering. XX
XX YY
XX OUR FIFTY SHILLING SD1TS XX
XX and our XX
XX THIRTEEN SHILLING TROUSERS XX
XX made to order XX
XX CANNOT BE SURPASSED.
XX
XX OUR FIFTY SHILLING SUITS XX
XX and our XX
XX THIRTEEN SHILLING TROUSERS XX
XX made to measure XX
XX are XX
XX THE BEST VALUE IN SYDNEY. XX
XX XX
XX OUR FIFTY SHILLING SUITS XX
XX and our XX
XX THIRTEEN SHILLING TROUSERS XX
XX made to order XX
XX arc the XX
XX NEWEST STYLE OF PATTERN. XX
XX XX
XX OUR FIFTY SHILLING SUITS XX
XX and our XX
XX THIRTEEN SHILLING TROUSERS XX
XX made to measure XX
XX are XX
XX REALLY SERVICEABLE QUALITY. XX
XX XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS. XX
XX in PITT-STRBET.
XX Now, Ladies and Gentlemen, we in- XX
XX vite you all: we can serve you all, and XX
XX serve you well, for we wish you to come XX
XX to us again and again, as often as your XX
XX boy wants a suit of clothes or a hat; or XX
XX one of your daughters get married, or XX
XX your drawing-room requires a new XX
XX carpet, or your bedrooms a bed, or your XX
XX kitchen wants some towels, or your XX
XX baby a new hood, or when any new XX
XX arrivals are expected.
XX XX
XX We especially invite those ladies that XX
XX know a good piece of flannel when they XX
XX see it.
XX —- XX
XX We would also remind our numerous xx
XX friends and patrons that our only places XX
XX of business are 209. 211, 174, 176, Pitt- XX
XX street, near King-street.
XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS,
XX 211, Pitt-street (only).
xx
XX Get out of tram at King-street.
XX
XX XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X
X XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXV
xx
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP.
FOR PRIVATE SALE,
THE well-known MOUNT HUNTLEY VINE-
YARDS, situated near LOCHINVAR, Hi
TER RIVER DISTRICT, together with tne
CELLARS, CASKS, PRESSES, VATS, STIhE
COTTAGE (8 rooms), GRAZING LAND, &c.,
About
30,000 GALLONS RED and WHITE WINES.
35 ACRES of VINES in FULL BEARING.
37 ACHES of GRASS LAND.
This is one of the most complete wine-piodueE'
establishments in the colony, having 0 n 8
order) everything necessary for the proper wu
ing of the vineyards and cellars.
Wines from these vineyards have been
Medals and Diplomas at the Pans, wraeai
Amsterdam, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, a 8(
Brisbane Exhibitions; besides many rrizw
Maitland and Singleton Shows.
Fullest inspection invited. Intending
will be met at Allandale Station (one mile
collars) and shown over the propertj, a u
obtain all information by applying to the Mam*
at the cellars, Lochiuvar. „
A. E. DAVIES & cu '


Solomon, junr.; liabilities, £5000; assets,
another man’s wife and chil dren. This is Car-
coar Mary’s little joke.
The sale of Chiswick Estate, on the Parra-
matta River, last Saturday afternoon, by Messrs.
Watkin and Watkin, was a very great success.
The total of the sale was over £17,000, and the in-
vestments have since risen in price.
News has been received by cable, from
London, announcing that theBrlnsmead Piano has
again come off victorious, at the Great Amster-
dam Exhibition, in competition with the world’s
best instruments. The judges comprised some of
the best musical scientists of Europe, and the
verdict for the Brinsmead, isithe grand Diploma
of Honour. This victory for the grand English
pianoforte maker is doubtless ere this been cabled
all over the world.*
Arthur Charles Gladstone, a nephew of tho
grand old man, and an ex-lieutenant of the Navy,
sent up for a month by the Lithgow bench for
having no visible means of support. He had re-
cently got “the sack” on a station where he had
been shepherding. Another kinsman of W.E.G.’s
died some years ago in Melbourne- In a state of
destitution. He had been cashiered tor cowardice.
A Brewarrina paper has got at the cause
of bush-fires. “ A local squatter has seen old men
kangaroos rubbing sticks together ’’—and then we,
suppose, boiling billies taken from bushmen,
whom they have stuck up, and murdered. Our
contributors have often seen things like this. Ono
bottle of Brewarrina rum is as good as a pano-
rama and a wild beast show.
The Melbourne Turf Club would respectfully
caution their numerous subscribers and the publio
generally not to believe the untruthful reports
circulated respecting the bond fldea of their Mam-
moth Sweep on the Melbourne Cup. The Club
have been unjustly criticised by certain individuals
who hold interests in other Sweeps, and are striv-
ing to damage the reputation of others with a view
to bolster up their own rotten concerns.—T,
Bentley, Hon. Sec,*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal— “ Taken from Life.” p. 8,
Opera House— “An Arabian Night ” lb.
G aiety Theatre— “ Blow for Blow ” lb.
Masonic Hall— Federal Minstrels ib.
Academy of Music.— “Leaguer-Landlord” ib.
If Hiscocks’ Minstrels continue to alter
their programmes as often as they are now doing,
and maintain the same level of fun, there need be
no term to their stay at the Masonic Hall; that is,
unless somebody guts tired of them and kills them.
Wonderful houses they have night after night.
Alter all, there is nothing to compare with a good
Minstrel show for attracting the people—except,
perhaps, a revival meeting. Curious contradic-
tions of human nature. People flock in crowds to
one show, the moral of which is to live and laugh;
and also flock in crowds to another, the moral of
which is to grovel in the dust and die. Perhaps
both sensations are a good deal similar. At any
rate, the sagacious jokers, who pull the strings in
each case, continue to scoop the pool. Ah! wo
forgot to mention before that Mr. Nick La Feuil-
lade is musical conductor. Let us see if we can
make up tor our omission with an ode. Make your
wills and listen:—
And let us tell you that the Shakspeare
A.l). Company are just in it. They played “Our
Pet” last Tuesday at the Gaiety, and roe on splen-
didly. It was for the benefit of the House of the
Good Samaritan, and the piece went merrily. This
is only hearsay, however, as, had wc had a chance,
we would have laid ours&lves out for a full notice.
As it was, however, at the last moment it was de-
cided to play “Our Pet” first, instead of after
“Kip,” as had been previously announced; and
thus nearly all the critics were debarred from
noticing the performance.
* * * *
The amusements at Wollongong appear
to have been the “ Confederate Diorama,” (dear
old friend!) ana “The Prodigal Son.” Mr. W. T.
Smyth bossed the Diorama, andtheKev. R. Waugh
the Son who had gone wrong. “The Prod.” was
most successful, real acorns being on the stage for
the lad to eat, and two tame pigs to add to the
illusion. On the return of the Prodigal, the rev.
gentleman produced, amidst much applause, the
fatted veal, which had previously been assassinated
by the local butcher, and the curtain came down
with the forgiving father hugging the sou in one
arm and the veal in the other, much to the satis-
faction of all present. The entertainment will be
repeated shortly, this time though with a “pro-
perty” “fatted calf,” and afterwards our old friend
Judas will have a show. By the by, there is a
Joke in AVollongong that the veaugvas “went down”
remarkably well. Not so dusty, eh? And while
setting it down that E. B. Russell has been “ star-
ring” at Abbotfs Opera House (N.Z.) [II!], and
fbat the Brisbane Leader gravely gives at a
column's length the plot of the “Two Orphans,” we
come, as you must see at once, to the impor-
tant fact that in speaking of Mrs. South
m “Boccaccio,” the Guhdaoai Elworthy said:
' Mrs. South acted with all her accustomed verve,
a nd in the florid passages entirely engrafted the
good opinions of the house.” And, of course, we
must tell you that the two great successes in
Linden are two burlesques—one on “ Fedora,”
called (stupidly) “ Stage-Dora,” by Burnand; and
one on “ The Silver King,” called (funnily) “Silver
built,” by an unknown author named W. Warham.
?fid, for heaven’s sake, don’t make-up the last
rorme without having in that the Neilson Chicago
jmnstrel Troupe are at Garner’s, in Adelaide, and
mat Cagli (!) is Mr. Neilson’s “ private secretary,”
that (we quote the Adelaide L.V. Gazette :)
, R is possible that the troupe will remain in Ade-
“Jme until the arrival of the Earl of Rosebery,
Who expressed a fervent desire to see the enter-
tainment on visiting the antipodes. [!!!] Signor
bagli, the private secretary to Mr. Neilson, the
wealthy [H] proprietor of the show, assures us
ihai the takings would astonish Jimmy Williamson,
as the business done is something under £300 a
night.” [!!!!] We think it Would, too. Garner’s
Theatre (White’s Rooms) certainly will hold some-
thing under £300 a night—something very much
under.
* ♦ * *
The Stanislaus boys have been playing
“Julius Ciesar” at Bathurst: and half-a-pound of
hard-bake, some sherbet, and a bottle of giuger-
bocr were given to the impersonator of the hero
before he went on, in order that “ his face might
bear the trace of those deep feelings ” (Record)
“ which so often disturbed the breast of the great
dictator.” The affair was thrilling all through ;
but when Brutus stabbed Caesar under the fifth
rib with a lolly-stick the enthusiasm knew no
bounds. The ginger-bread soldiers comprising the
armies were muon admired, botli before and after
the performance. And this awakens us to the fact
that the actors of New York appear divided into five
categories—“fakers,” “ hamtatters,” “ bummers,”
“ dudes,” and “bladders.” Bladder would seem to
be an uncomplimentary epithet, for on an actor
named Mordaunt calling another named Coffer by
that apellation, Mordaunt “ went for ” Coffer, who,
however, it seems, “wiped the side-walk” with
his opponent. Then, of course, you have heard
that the other Davenport has started the “cabinet”
business again, and that Bolton Rowe (who is
Clement Scott) is writing a play for Mrs. Langtry.
Not heard this ? Thunder f Then learn at once
that Smythe is running Ponssard, Moncure Con-
way, and is promised Oscar Wilde. There seemsto
be something magical about this little man. They
say he has a great lot of brains, too, Well, there’s
—er—room for them. And here’s something for
you ! In six rainy nights at Auckland, Sheridan
cleared £578. Enfin !—ll en eta it temps!
mmm
You shall have some airy items, in a rhyme a
little rough:
“ Freedom,” then, at Drury Lane’s pronounced
most awful stuff.
“ A big success,” the Lynch’s write, they are, at
Bangalore;
And Tommy Hudson has reduced his company
to four!
And, all Tasmania’s weeping ; Her prestige, now,
is lost—
Their Amy Sherwin has turned out a most ex-
tensive “frost:”
She couldn’t half fill Drury Lane, though critics
here did swear
The “ Sweet Tasmanian Nightingale ” could
quite fill Wynyard Square.
“ The Musettes” at Iowa (oh, for this item wait),
Now contemplate “retiring,” and have “bought
a large estate;”
And Lily Marsh (proclaim this, now, from gable
and from steeple)
Is pegging on in Mudgee with “ The Woman of
the People.”
At Clutha, Eloise Juno, in the toar-and-coat-
cuff drama;
In Christchurch, “Josh” is “at it” with his
“ moral panorama;”
At Melbourne are ’Arts “’Appy ’Ours;” and,
just you take our tip,
The city has been ringing with J.C.’s success as
“Rip.”
m * » *
And now a paragraph or two about the
Gaiety. We went to see “Blow for Blow” on
Saturday night. It was funny to an extent.
Johnny Hall was tunny, Jessie Grey was funny,
and little Louise funnier than all. By the way—
but she shall have a paragraph to herself.
• • •
By the way, then, if Miss Beaudet were a
man. Instead of being the fairy that she is, we
would humbly suggest to her that there is such a
thing as being too tragic. True passion is neither
pyrotechnic nor pompous. Some actors anu
actresses are like some singers—they think to
make up by volume of voice tor what they lack in
tone. Rigidity of utterance might become a ghost
from the other world, but It does not become a
being of flesh and blood in this. Miss Beaudet
goes to such a tragic pitch that she says the most
ordinary tilings in a hollow, funereal way, which
at first makes one imagine she is reciting the
service for the dead. “John Der-rumond!”
“Milder-red Kertradocb!” Why this? We are
sadly afraid Miss Beaudet has fallen into an evil
style. But she is amusing. When she towers to
her full height in a spasm of passion, she looks like
au excited canary. We are sorry to have to say
this. Let us make friends in a rhyme. Put your
lily-white hand to your tiny pink ear, and listen.
So: —
LITTLE LOUISE.
The pen of Sadi,
O, little lady,
Dipped in dawn-dew
The Persian Sadi,
We need, lady,
lo write of you.
We have Louises,
But none that pleases
Our tiste, be sure,
With brown or black tress,
As you, great actress
In miniature.
You look (dear Sadi!)
The leading lady,
The foremost fay—
We re a salaamer! -
Of some doll-drama.
Some midget play.
Opinion: pretty
You are, and witty;
• And, if the shops
Will trust, well back it
Up to a packet
Of lollypops.
• • •
We thought we had brought a packet of
jujubes on Saturday night, but, just as we were
about to gracefully waft it to the fairy feet of Miss
Beaudet, we discovered it contained cut tobacco.
We knew she could have no use for this, so wo
kept it to chew in church. And now, Louise dear,
we must put you back into your toy-box.
* * *
We like the acting of Mr. Augustus
Glover. It is nice and natural. Miss Jessie Grey-
permit us to pirouette with joy at your return to
the stage. Miss Grey—is a delightful Kitty Wobbler.
But Miss Jessie Grey was always delightful, even
as Johnny Hall was always funny. The rest of the
company are pretty well. And now we are done
with literature for the week, and can return to the
potato-planting.
* * * *
“Haaf-a-kerrown!” This was what he
said and how he said it. He was a little old man
with a grotesque face, very much like those you
see at the pantomime; and he had settled himselt
down at the door of the Gaiety Theatre, tor the
express purpose of cursing Herr Bandmann in
several languages. We asked who he was, hut no
one knew him. The mention of the coin suggested
to us that ho was a dramatic author, who had come
round to collect payment for his tragedy. But he
wasn’t. Neither was he a poet come to borrow
that amount. Who in thunder was he, then? Herr
Bandmann came to the door with a pale face and a
ghastly light in his eyes. He evidently knew the
mysterious stranger, and dreaded him. As well he
might. It was the ghost of Rip Van Winkle !
• • • «
Another paragraph; only a little one this
time. And a nice little one, because it is about a
nice little man. Harry Simmons, we mean. Well,
he his going to take a company into the country
very shortly. It will consist of Johnny Hall, Jessie
Grey, Alice Johns, Augustus Glover, and several
others. If this kind of thing goes on, we will
arise some day and go out into the country our-
selves. But, on second thoughts, we won’t; the
country editors would get up and slay us. Mr.
Simmons, however, is a favourite in the country,
because he never jeers at a local pump, or speaks
slightingly of local liquor. In view of the money
he will bring back, we casually mentioned to him
that our hand was always open. He received this
statement with a chilling smile. Still, on the off
chance we wish him luck.
* * » *
And what’s all this about Jimmy South’s
crowd “knocking them” at Wagga, and Mrs. Jimmy
giving away silver-cups to pigeon-shooters ?—
The Princess A. won’t give a cup
To any pigeon-killer ;
But, lo, behold you hand one up,
That’s made of solid siller.
This conduct, dearest Edith P.,
You might find detrimental;
On second thoughts you probahlco
Don’t care a “ continental.”
* * * *
Here goes. Wo have not been at the Royal
for a week, but we kuow that everything is going
on well there: we can hear the prison being blown
up every night. In fact, the unborn, not to say
the dead,Anight hear it if they chose to listen. The
audiences are good. And that’s all we have to say,
* * * *
The only new feature at the Opera House
is Harry Power. He plays the part that Johnny
Hall had—the Cannon-ball Performer. Of the
two, we prefer Johnny. But this is only private
prejudice, and has no more reason than our pre-
ference of leeks to onions. By the way, we have
never said anything of Mr. Boothman yet. This
was an oversight which wo lament. Mr. Booth-
man plays the part of the artist, and as such is the
beau-ideal of a boarding-school-girl’s dream. As
we are not a boarding-school-girl ourselves, he is
not the ideal of our dream. And beauty is suffi-
cient to itself; which, perhaps, is the reason why
we have often been called self-sufficient. So Is the
Polk Company, and that ought to be enough for
them. Anyhow, It is all we can spare them now.
Miss Ella Carrington, with a charming
audacity altogether her own, lias made a bold
attempt to make the Academy of Music pay. She
has opened her season with a new play—" Leaguer
and Landlord.” There is not much to be said
about the play itself, as it is only an excuse for
Introducing songs and dances. Only this: if they
are anything like what they are represented to bo
in the play, we don’t wonder at Leaguer shooting
Landlord, and Landlord hanging Leaguer. There
are four acts, any one of which is enough for the
money paid for admission. Two of the songs are
new, none of the jokes. But wc are accustomed
to this. There is nothing new. When Baron
Nordenskjold and his party penetrated to the ice-
desert in the interior of Greenland, they found a
sewing machine agent and a circus there before
them.
* * *
But we don’t think that even in an ice-
desert could be found such warlock-faced crea-
tures as do duty for bouchals and colleens in this
play. They are sui generis. We never see them
except when an Irish drama is produced. We sup-
pose they are employed in a potato-cellar the rest
of the time. You know the conventional Colleen
-sharp-elbowed and scrawny, with alow-necked
dress and high-heeled boots, the common costume
of the Irish girl when she is at home. And the
stage Bouchal you are also dismally familiar with.
He always dances on to the stage and dances off
with a whoop, and a wave of his shillelah at the
mention of fighting or whisky. And he has a
chronic crook in the knees and oast in the eyes.
We have no objection to these features of Irish
drama, remember; indeed, wc should be sorry to
see them left out. But they are not all of the
play.
* * *
No, indeed. Mr. Charles Taylor and Miss
Carrington are the play. And they are certainly
amusing, particularly Mr. Taylor. He has a nice,
soft laugh of his own which would be a fortune to
a less distinguished comedian. And he sings really
very well. Also dances. In fact, if all the warlocks
were left out, Miss Carrington and Mr. Taylor are
worth paying to see. But the warlocks are great
fun for all that. By the way, Mr. Sam Poole is
playing with this company. He takes the part of
a Cockney footman, and, all things considered, he
takes it very well. So that, .leaving hypercriticisms
aside, there are many worse ways of spending an
evening than in going to see “ Leaguer and
Landlord.” Besides, by going, one sees Mr. Charles
Fuller, the agent, who is a very charming fellow
with a dazzling smile—so dazzling that you would
imagine he was the keeper of the Crown jewels.
* * * ♦
Luscombe Searrelle has, with his usual dis-
interested kindness, sent us the opinions of the
press on his opera “ Estrella,” recently produced
at that London theatrical “white elephant,” the
Folies Dr.unatlques. By fainter praise no produc-
tion was ever damned; and it only lingered for a
little ivhile consequent on the curiosity of the
mashers to behold Miss Camille Dubois, a recent
divorcee, who, when in Madeira and the Isle
of Wight, emulated, so far as the military
were concerned, the well-known example of
“La Grande Duchesso do Qdrolstein.” Yes;
and, and talking of operas, Lillian Russell
with whom “Ted” Solomon, the composer, ran
away from New York, has just appeared at
the Gaiety in “Virginia and Paul” with much
success, although the opera is spoken of as rather
small beer. A N.Y. paper says : “ Lillian Russell,
at her first appearance in London, wore a diamond
brooch so fashioned that the word ‘Ned’blazed
out in letters of fire. The inference that Cad
Solomon bestowed it on her will be a cheerful
one to the twenty or thirty New Yorkers, tq
each ofiwhom he owed $50 when he went away.
This is prettv warm, but nothing to what is to fol-
low. The same paper says that Pottinger Stephens,
however much he tries, can’t manage to “ sober
up ” more than three times a year: -‘‘The failure
of ‘Colonel’ Mapleson (who, by the way, isa Hebrew
actually named Mablestein) to connect with Gye’s
crowd in London leaves the field to Abbey. This
is a pity, it would have been delightful to see the
two cormorants reduced to mutual starvation.”
On the subject of Mr. Abbey, whom it names the
“Mr. Merdl'o of the Stage,” begins a par. thus:
“That pompous prig, Abbey, will soon be back
to face his doom. Abbey owes his reputation
to the fact that he never speaks. A more silent
man never undertook to manage a theatre.”
It ie said the monkey can talk, but won’t, for fear
of being put to work; but this can’t be so with
Abbey, who has Vanderbilt at his back. But yet»,
few more gems from this literary coruscation. It
calls the big manager, Sam Colville, “Sammy of
the Entrails,” and of Dalziel’s departure for Eng-
land, says—“Poor old Lingard will see him off, in
the desperate hope that Dizzy Dave will make an
attempt to balance their account before he starts
for his ‘ family mansion’ and ’ancestral park,’ in
the Strand, London.” Rough, eh ? Hut no time
to wait. To the everlasting grief of the Brisbane
people, the Holloways have left them, and
Jack Scantlebury’s company succeed them. It
appears that Jack’s troupe had a buggy acci-
dent, by which our old friend Tyrrel was badly
hurt, and the rest of the company are, it seems
rather barked as to their shins, and excoriated as
.to their ponums. A'id what do you think! Turner
gets this from the musical critic (“ Andante ”) of
the Australasian:—” I would like to hint to Mr.
Turner that his growing propensity to indulge in
‘ gag ’ is becoming more unfavourably noticeable,
and I would entreat him to cease from firing off
his impertinent and contemptibly inane jokes in
scenes and at times entirely unsuited for them, or
else I shall be called upon to draw attention *o the
matter in very earnest.” Verdi is in the company,
but he didn’t play for two nights, and Miss Lam-
bert and Templeton are also of the crowd.
Dr. Garran.
Mr. Macleod’s presentment of Dr. Andrew
Garrau needs little introduction to the
rea lers of The Bulletin. No man in Sydney
is less of a popularity-hunter than the senior
editor of the Sydney Morning Herald.
Partly on account of delicate health, chiefly
on account of a vulgarity - hating, home-
loving disposition, he shuns rather than
seeks those public occasions which are the
small world of the majority of our so-called
public men. He is not one of the vul-
tures who gather wherever there are
carcases of champagne, nor is he one
of the “patriots,” who hanker eternally
after the music of the multitude. But
it is impossible that a man of his force
and culture of intelect should have been
editorially associated with the leading
journal of the colony for so many years,
without at least the outline of his indi-
viduality becoming common property.
Thousands of New South Welshmen know
the inner man—his principles and patriot-
ism, his mental powers and peculiarities—
who look perhaps upon his physical features
to-day for the first time. The indestructible
ego is never really merged in the apparently
all-engrossing editorial impersonality. Con-
stant readers of the Herald’s leading
columns can “pick out” the doctor’s articles
as they can swear to the voice of a friend.
The outward facts of such a man’s history
have neither ranch interest nor significance;
his journalistic work is himself. Dr. Garrau
is the son of a London merchant, and was
born in Hackney in 1825, He was educated
at Springhill College, Birmingham, and took
his M.A. in London, and his LL.D. Jn Sydney
University. His connection with the Aus-
tralian Press dates back some thirty years,
when he landed in Adelaide, and shortly
alterwards assumed the editorship of the
South Australian Register. The late
John Fairfax was looking about the colonies
for an assistant to the late Dr. West, the then
editor of the Herald, and his choice fell
upon Dr. Garrau. That was 27 years ago.
When Dr. West died somelO years since, Dr.
Garran became senior editor, and head
of the literary staff of the office. During his
quarter of a century’s service, the Herald
has developed into the magnificent property
it now is. The Herald is not what it should
be—no paper on earth is, not even The
Bulletin— but a glance at the old flies of
the Herald is enough to convince any
fauatic of the good-old-days type that a
marvellous change has passed over and
through the columns of the oldest paper in
the colonies since the day when Dr. Garran’s
wisdom and knowledge were first drawn
upon, probably, no better-informed
journalist in Australia than he, and, at his
best, he is—we give this as the opinion
of the editor of one of the big dailies
in Victoria — the best of our leader
writers. His work is always conscientiously
done, and he never wrote a line that a
gentlemah might hesitate to sign his name
10. Of dispassionateness he has almost too
much, for it compels him to do justice to the
other side at the risk of appearing not
absolutely convinced of the preponderance
of reason on his own, and thus perhaps
causes confusion and disappointment in the
mind of a reader whose love of fair play is
not so controlling* and whose intellectual
discrimination is not so keen as his own.
But he can hate a little bit, and more than
one of our shady politicians, and pre-
eminently one of them, has felt Dr. Garran’s
pen to be sharper than a two-edged sword.
And as we plead guilty to occasional flashes
of gratitude, we will wind this ngragraph
up by saying that we have always credited
Dr. Garran with the authorship of the most
masterly article which appeared in the New
South Wales Press on the BuBLKTiN-Clontarf
case.
TO THALIA.
Muse of the comic mask,
Thalia, dear I
Hearken to us: wc ask
Your succour here.
Fallen on’evil days,
With small renown
For guerdon; neither bays
Nor laurel crown,
What can wo do ? Our fame
Is almost ill—
At most we find our name
Upon a bill.
Enthusiastic throngs—
Here is a fix!—
If they applaud our songs,
Applaud with bricks.
Or if they praise our jest,
Thalia, dear!
Our guerdon is, at best,
A small, small beer.
Not as they cheered long since.
With three times three.
Him who was easy prince
Of comedy.
But we must grind and grind.
In ways obscure,
And thorny and unkind
Light lit’rature.
Light lit’rature, and vain
Poor wind-blown chaff,
Our greatest hope to gain
An idiot laugh.
Joy is a jewelled tear
' In all fools’ caps,
Black plumes; we’ll meet you, dear,
In Hades, p’raps.
THE MERRY MAESTRO.
Unto us the task has fallen—
Airy be the tune I—
Writing rhymes we are not small in—
Strike the soft spittoon I
We are going now to lot you--
Stoop and hold your breath I—
Hear a song which, heard, you bet you,
Vou will pray for Death.
It’s about the maestro merry-
11 ere throw in a trill 1—
La Feuillade, the minstrel, very
Much the minstrel still.
Played long ? If his hair dark-shaded
Hadn’t been, you know,
Curly inside, he’d have played it
All off long ago.
But a queer thing that this player—
We will note it here! -
Gayer grows instead of greyer
Ev’ry blessed year!
Ah, the years, the years, departed—
What a smell of gin I—
Some were sad, some merry-hearted—
Mother's coming in I
In his notes—notes oft remind men!—
Still we see them, ah I
Years when wo were stoning blind men-
Quit the jug, Mamma!
Soul of any Minstrel troupe he—
Yes, we’ll take a sup;
Mother, you are getting croupy,
Try to sober up!
Soul—though here we drop the curtain,
And hang up the lyre.
Pray excuse us; life’s Uncertain-
Mother’s in the fire!
SOLD.
Yes, we own it at once,
In spite of our wit,
We were sold in a way
That the veriest dunce
Would blush to admit.
She was nicer than pie;
She sat in the seat
Just behind, at the play;
With the end of an eye
We saw her, the sweet!
Could it be ? could it be ?
At us did she glance
That glance tenderly gay ?—
And ’twas thus, as you see.
Began our romance.
Oh, as sweet was her smile
As flowers on shelves
Of a florist: we smiled
Back, and made for a while
An ass of ourselves.
Yes, we did, it is true:
Oh, why ? and oh—why
Should a fellow of sense
Judge by what he secs through
Hie end of an eye ?
She makes signals; she nods—
We blushed—so would you—
Till we turned round and saw
She was mashing—great gods!—
A beaky Hebrew !


TOPICS OF TH£ TIME.—PERSONAL ITEMS.


HOW SULLIVAN KNOCKED OUT
THE MAORI.
New York never turned out" a bigger
crowd than on the night when the mighty Sullivan
showed that Slade was soft as pulp and gritless as
a lamb. There were 15,000 or 16,000 people present,
and no one paid less than a dollar, while the large
majority paid two dollars or over. The arrange-
ment was that the men should have a scientific
sparring contest to see who was the better man.
Although a great many held a small opinion of
Slade, they still thought he had some bottom in
him, and that the science which had so laboriously
been imparted to him by Jem Mace would show to
good advantage. When he stood up before the
crowd, however, men who had bet on him felt
anxious. He is as fat and flabby as a pig. Only
one man in all that crowd was positive that Sulli-
van would knock him out, and that man was Sulli-
van himself.«Before the light commenced Sullivan
telegraphed to both his father and his wife’s sister
that he had knocked his opponent silly.
♦ * ♦
Both men were stripped to the waist, and
were sponged and rubbed exactly as though en-
tering a bare-knuckle prize fight. Sullivan looked
as clean and sleek as a race-horse. He weighed
1931b. He never stepped into the ring at lower
weight. He was a perfect model of manly beauty.
The muscles stood out all over him in clean, well-
defined furrows, and his skin was clear as a
woman’s. Slade was beefy. He weighed 220B>,
and looked flabby and lull. He didn’t look at
Sullivan when he came into the ring, but sat in a
corner, and gazed with some nervousness over the
multitude of shouting and bellowing spectators.
Meanwhile, Sullivan sat with his head thrust for-
ward, and glowered upon the Maori with a fierce
and brutal expression. Slade’s face looked weak
and undecided; Sullivan’s was a picture of brutal
ferocity. The men’s hands were forced into gloves
which were so small as to be almost caricatures of
ordinary boxing gloves. These gloves were firmly
tied on their wrists, and they stood up before one
another, and moved about warily. To the prac-
tised eye, Sullivan was a sure winner from this
time on, though Slade was much the larger man
of the two. He was bigger than Sullivan every
way, and moved more quickly on his feet.
* * *
They sparred for a minute or two, and then
Slade got In a blow on Sullivan’s nose which made
the champion blink for a minute. Then Sullivan’s
chin went forward, his lips closed, and his brow
contracted. He slowly edged his right foot in on
Slade, who looked at him with an expression that
w s akin to fear. Suddenly Sullivan’s left arm
went out followed by his right. There was a brisk
encounter and exchange of light taps, and then the
Boston champion fell on the Maori like a whirl-
wind. His fists rained down on the face and neck
of the half-breed like a bewildering accession of
blows from a trip-hammer. Slade’s science was of
as little use to him then as a feather would have
been.
m m 9
He put up his hands, and tried to ward off
the terrible blows that knocked his head around as
though it were made of putty, and finally forced
him down on his knees. With a mighty effort, the
half-caste got to his feet again, but once more
the pitiless blows of the Boston champion rained
down upon his face and neck, until he was knocked
over on his side, where he lay like a stunned ox.
As he got up again, Sullivan drew back his right
arm with a swinging all-round blow, caught the
dazed and bewildered Maori giant just behind the
ear, and knocked him, like a sky-rocket, through
the ropes. The great body of Slade went over the
edge of the platform, and he fell on his back on
the floor below with a thud that resounded through
the eutire building. Everybody yelled: ‘‘Slade is
killed!”
• • *
The twenty-four-foot platform on which
the two men fought is elevated to a height of
about four and a naif feet from the floor, and
Slade’s fall must have been a severe one. He
scrambled confusedly to his feet, staggered around
the ring to a point where the steps lead up to the
stage, and climbed again to the rope enclosure.
He had no sooner got there than Sullivan ap-
proached him with the same dogged and perse-
vering look, except that the champion now wore a
condescending smile as he gently put out his
left hand as a feeler. The Maori was decidedly
frightened. He had met many men; he had been
taught by one of the foremost pugilists of the
world, and had trained for many weeks under skil-
ful advice. He was bigger than his opponent, and
he thought he was stronger; but he could no more
stand up before the American champion than he
could fly over the roof of the Garden. He had
not the spirit that young Charles Mitchell, the
English champion amateur, had, by any means.
Mitchell was knocked down and battered to the
floor, but he rose every time, and faced the cham-
pion with undaunted spirit, though he was trem-
bling from head to foot, and dazed by the terrific
Sunishment he received. But the Maori was terrl-
ed in the first round. .
• • • •
As he came up on the stage after his fall,
and Sullivan edged towards him with a wicked
smile and set teeth, Slade retreated from him all
around the platform twice. Then he suddenly
made a stand and got In a body blow on Sullivan.
A moment later the champion’s right hand
slung; towards Slade. The darkey instinctively
turned his head away from it. As he turned
his head, he left his guard open, and be-
fore he knew what was going on, Sullivan had
whirled around and got his left arm into play. The
result was that his left arm swung around exactly
as the right had done, and it caught Slade full in
the face, as he turned away. It staggered the
Maori, and his hands dropped for a minute to his
side as he reeled away, but he had not turned half
a step before Sullivan came down with one blow
after another on the side of his head till he beat
him to earth. Slade rose slowly and stiffly to his
feet, and letreated to his comer. It was with
difficulty that the referee and time-keeper could
keep Sullivan from following him there.
• • •
When Slade got up in front of the cham-
pion again the spectators were moved to pity. One
eye was swelled tight, and the whole lower part of
his face, where Sullivan had given him the left-
handed blow, was of a dead, bluish colour, the
blood was trickling down fmm his nose and the
corners of his mouth, and the remaining eye was
bloodshot and unsteady. Urged by his trainers
and the taunts of the crowd, he staggered up in
front of Sullivan. The champion’s smile had now
become a contemptuous grin, and he sprang upon
the exhausted t nd battered Maori as a cat does
upon a mouse. He fought him down to the fl or
again and again, until the half-caste fell limply
against the ropes and gasped for breath, while he
held his hands up suppllcatingly. Then the police
Jumped in and stopped the fight. It was certainly
time.
* • *
Sullivan lias so far proved himself to be
the hardest hitter of the age. There is, however,
yet left one man who doubts It, and that man is
William Miller, of Melbourne, who, a month or two
ago, ‘‘put through” a plucky man whose only
fault was that he was four or five stone too light—
Larry Foley. Sullivan has knocked out the best
men in America, England, and New Zealand—not
with bare fists, but with gloves, and in three
rounds on each occasion. Had Sullivan had his
bare fists in a contest with Mitchell or the Maori
giant, the probabilities are that he would have
killed one of his opponents.
* * *
Miller is to do the rounds of the provinces
on show for a month or two. Then he will go for
America, on purpose to see whether Mr. Sullivan
can knock out in three rounds the best man in
Australia.
Lord Derby says that addressing the House
of Lords Is like speaking to gravestones In a ceme-
tery. If his Lordship were In owr Upper House
he’d possibly observe that speaking to the Legis-
1 atlve Council was like addressing fat bullocks
under chloroform.
If any man wishes to find out how little
room any one man takes up in the world, and how
easily the old globe will roll on after he is dead,
just let him strike, and turn around when he gets
to the edge of the footpath, and watch the other
man going In to take his place. Well, that is the way
things will go on when we are dead.
’Twas ever thus with all great inventors.
A few days ago Messrs. Gregory and Randall, of
Penrith, Introduced a new game called “ Navvy’s
Tennis,” which Is played exactly the same as Its
“Lawn” namesake, only a pick-handle Is substi-
tuted for a bat and a wooden railway key for a ball.
Gregory drove the key against Randall s head, and
killed him on the spot.
There are over 700 prisoners in Darling-
hurst Gaol. This Is very singular. Anyone at all
acquainted with Sydney—anyone who had read,
say, last week’s inquest reports, etc., in the even-
ing papers—would suppose that there were at least
live thousand.
“The ruling passion strong in death.”—
The bookmaker’s wife was telling the doctor how
young her poor husband was to die—“only thirty-
three." “Yes,” murmured the dying “bookie,”
catc' ing at the words, “a thousand to thirty—
Iw .e. If you like.”
Froude has just written a very enthusias-
tic magazine article on Martin Luther. Among
other things ho declares that the great Reformer’s
heroic bearing and conduct before the Diet of
Worms was one of the finest scenes In human his-
tory. We quite agree with Mr. Froude that a man
Who could feel comfortable with a diet of that
sort in anticipation must be pretty tough.
BRIEF MENTION.
The judgment of Solomon—£6000 and costs.
When missionaries go to a country, they
first fall upon their own knees and then upon the
aborigi-nes.
Two thousand years ago, Herodotus wrote,
“ One tyrant always stands by another.” And the
same holds good to-day.
The N.S.W. Permanent Artillery are being
Instructed in pedestrianism. They will, doubtless,
be vallautly led by their officers.
A clock was stolen from the Waterloo Con-
gregational Church a few nights ago. Time was
evidently of more account to the thief than
Eternity.
A tall stiff collar makes the masher happy,
A starchy front, white tie, and curly hat;
And to call others and be called a “ chappie,”
We cannot see much chappie-ness In thatl
Says a recent glove-shop “ad.”: “There
are forty-one different shades in kids this season.”
Where’s the Aborigines’ Protection Society now
that it does not report more fully ?
Over a week ago. Alfred’s Astronomer
Royal, who must evidently be on the “ Answers
to Correspondents ” staff as well, declared : “ If
spots upon the sun’s disc are Indicative of atmo-
spheric disturbances, then we may expect the
next week or ten days will be very stormy, accom-
panied with heavy rain.” As a matter of fact,
however, weariful calms have ruled, and the
weather has been as dry as a limeburner’s boots
or a Herald leader. Further on we read: “The
sun’s disc this afternoon presented the appearance
of a poor plumb pudding.” As a sample of chaste,
poetical simile, that “ plumb-line ” reminds us of
Edgar Allen Poe when he “ had them bad.”
Melbourne is just now very “ down in the
mouth.” While our own cause ciUbre has been
providing healthy recreation for the minds of
thousands, the Melbourne court granted six
decrees nisi in one day, and in the most summary
manner—“no interesting details at all, my dear; at
least, not to speak of. This is dreadful! How
can a community be expected to make proper
advancement in the paths of purity and virtue if
it’s to be deprived of light literature in this way ?
Melbourne ladies will be forced to fall back upon
their bibles—we don’t think—
They found “ divorce ” bereft of all its “ features ”;
With scarce a line about the “ naughty creatures. *
We shall try to be careful, when writing
our will, to have our headstone and our body in
the same graveyard. It puzzles executors so when
they are directed to bury us in one place and to
build our monument in another ; and the puzzle is
a shade deeper when the underlying supposition is
that the monument is to be, even in the above
conditions, on the top of us. Justice Holroyd has
been tearing his hair over a case like that, last
week. George Campbell, who ought to have
known better, got himself buried at Kew, and
then, or possibly before then, left an item of £300
with directions that the sum should bo spent in
erecting a monument over him in the Melbourne
Cemetery. The executors couldn’t tell for the life
of them whether it was their duty to fetch the
body from Kew and put it. under the monument,
or to fetch the monument over to Kew and set it
over the deceased Campbell. The Judge decided
that the monument should be fetched over, as,
having old Campbell down, it was best and safest
to keep him there, and give him as much monu-
ment as ho liked.
A Maori chief lost £50 with a white man
who had “ filed up,” and was explaining the trouble
to his tribe in solemn conclave assembled. He
said the man had gone “pakarapu” (bankrupt), a
word which was new to them, and which they did
not understand. Thereupon the chief went into
particulars. He said the Pakehas had a singular
custom, which it was well worth imitating, as it
sometimes paid a big dividend. When a Pakeha
wanted to go “pakarapu. ’ he usually bon owed
all the money he could from his neighbours, or
bought goods from them on credit, which he
sold again for cash ; and when he bad
a large sum, say £3000, saved up, he look £10- and
went to a lawyer and said he was going “ paka-
rapu," and that was all he had. The lawyer then
called his creditors together, and they all went be-
fore a Judge, and the lawyer said this honest man
had given up all his estate—viz., £10, and the Judge
said the lawyer must be paid £9 for his trouble,
and there was £1 left, which the creditors could
divide among themselves, and after that the debtor
would be clear. Then the Boia (lawyer) and the
“pakarapu ” had a drink together and were happy,
and the creditors all went home very sad and
sorrowful, and wishing they had all gone “ paka-
rapu ” in the same way.
No, they can’t get Mr. M’Cormick, P.M.,
to bring his wife to Shepparton, Vic., and the
ladies of the splitters and poundkeepers are
still without any other ladies that they can go
with. But whereas they yearned so for social
contact with a police magistrate, the very natural
inference was that a real live duke would set them
in transports. The demand creates the supply,
and the Duke of Rothesay presented himself the
other day. He told the Sheppartonlans that his
estates were in Scotland, and that his tenants were
numerous as the sands on the sea-shore. The
Duke had in “ leaves of Vallambrosa” here, but
the police-court barrister asked him where
Vallambrosa was, and as no one in the place had a
geography, it was decided that the “ sands of the
sea-shore” was a more Intelligible expression.
The Duke accepted the emendation, and all were
happy. But in a weak hour he went to the bank
for a little advance on the security of his signa-
ture. In a weaker hour he tried to bounce the
bank into compliance, and in the weakest hour of
all, long, clean-faced, solemn-voiced Constable
M’Donald grabbed him by the neck and called
him an “imposthure.” “His name is Peter
Leslie, yer Warship,” cried the constable. Dr.
Fitzgerald tickled him, looked at his teeth, and
pronounced him mad. So Shepparton is once
more in grief.
Congupna (Vic.) is not a brilliant place. It
hasn’t more than one murder in twenty years, and
its other evidences of civilization are Justus unprt-
tentlous. To go from one house to another is a
very fair tax on your appetite, and to live theie
for a week gives you a angible idea of the
immensity of space and the immeasurableness of
time. The creek has a lot of muddy water in It,
and you can meander up and down and write
poetry or catch eels as the spirit moves you. It
was catch eels, we did. We have often thought of
immortalizing ourselves by composing a disserta-
tion on the resemblance that exists between a
people and the fish in their nearest stream. But
we have had to indefinitely postpone the thought.
Even eels are a better security at the present.
But those Congupna eels were Just like the Con-
gupna people; and if they had spoken to us we aie
certain they would have stumped about Graham
Berry, Just as the Congupna people do. By the
way, while we were there, we helped to send a
document to the Minister of Instruction, asking
why our schoolhouse was not built, and threaten-
ing that we would lay our case before Graham
Berry if it were longer delayed. The Minister
replied that the school was up six month a
before, and he gave us the points of the coinpats
to guide us in finding out where it stood. We got
some horses the next day, and, with an old bush-
man as guide, rode off, and wo came to that school-
house right enough, and returned satisfied. But
we are reminded of all these things by a letter we
have got. telling us that our old friend Crase is to
lecture at Congupna on “Our Future Prospects.”
We know every word of Crase’s lecture, ft's the
same old thing we used to weep over before we lay
down. “ There’s no spot on God’s earth so richly
endowed by a plenteous Nature as Congupna. '
That’s it. Sorry we’re not there to weep once
more. We’ll go there before we die to weep again.
Trust us. We have been here and there, but Con-
gupna, Congupna—that is the name we would like
to tremble on our lips as Charon comes up to
search us J
SLADE, THE MAORI HALF-CASTE,
“Knocked out” by Mr. Sullivan, Ringmaster, in three rounds.
COMING EVENTS—THE FINISH FOR THE CUP.


Mr. Massie, father of the cricketer, and a
brother-in-law of Hon. F. M. Darley, Q.C., and
Major-General Scratchley, has joined the majority.
He came to Australia in 1839 with Rollcston,
C.M.G. He was one of the first member’s of the
Queensland Legislative Council after Separation,
and was elected for Mew England in the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly for one Parliament.
Don’t Die in the House.— “ Rough on Rats ”
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
tiles, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
THE " MISSUS’S” MISSION.
Mrs. Hampson in Sydney.
It glowed to the Southward, a gigantic sun,
rising, as it appeared, just above the horizon, and
seeming to shame in its size and brilliancy the big
pale moon, which, hovering over the city, whitened
the housetops and silvered the gables, intruding
now and anon relentlessly upon the privacy of
hand-locked lovers, and causing “ chaps ” whose
strong affections urged them to promenade with
their arras round their girls’ necks to stand out in
the light detected. But while the moon was bright
and white, the sun was golden and variegated; and
it upreared itself from the Prince Alfred Park
with considerable grandeur and effect. You have
guessed it, of course. That sun was the northern
end of the Exhibition Building in which Mrs.
Hsarnpon was holding her meeting. It was
Sunday night. In this city of flittering shades
—Sunday night, when every Sydney slum dis-
gorges its population, whose mission seems to
be to hoarsely “ whisper” the landlord at low pub.
doors, and mercilessly guy' the church-going com-
munity. And It is for the conversion of these
loafers, thieves, and drunkards that Mrs. Hampson
has appeai'ed amongst us, following up the Harmy
whoso operations, independent of their musical
perfoimances, do not appear, so far, to have been
startlingly successful. Mrs. Hampson, us will be
seen presently, goes to work in a different way ;
and her show, compared with that of Major
Sutherland, is Barnura’s combination to a monkey'-
circus. In all her operations, and in all her sur-
roundings, Mrs. Hampson betrays the fact that
she has almost unlimited command of money'. Her
platform alone must have, in its arrangement, cost a
heap; a sounding-board has been erected thewhole
length of it, and the flooring is on a complete
and elaborate scale. The building, with its
variegated lights on every pillar, its retiring-rooms
for prayer, must have gone into several figures.
Let us tell you, also, of floral garlands, and of saw-
dust laid down in a liberal (and, of course) Christian
spirit.
• • •
We arrived there at half-past seven, and
saw at once that we were in for a dose of .esthetic
evangelism. We knew this, because they were
singing a hymn then, and a gentleman on the plat-
form, gorgeous in gloves, was beating time on the
prompt side where the regular chorus figured.
But as only the chorus had hymn-books, and Mrs.
H. used to deal out a whole stanza at a time, the
general effect, when the 5000 or so in the body of
the ball chipped in, was of rather a striking nature.
Sometimes you heard the choir, but you always
heard the amateurs who sang whatever they re-
membered and hummed the rest, nearly always
coming in a Bastille-full of bars behind the organ-
ist—a mild-faced young gentleman, who was
partial to hair-oil and the use of the celestial stop.
The place was crowded to the doors; and it is a
matter worthy of remark that hundreds of faces
were to be recognised as thus. - who had professed,
at every evangelical revival, to have tumbled into
the Fountain, and to have been shampooed clean
from Sin. One rather elderly person, in brown
mittens, who was surreptitiously chewing hard-
bake, had been a partaker of evangelical glory so
often that we couldn’t help wondering she had the
“ face ” to ask for any more on her plate.
• • •
The arrangements were under the manage-
ment of Mr. D. Walker, General Secretary of the
Y.M.C.A., and the Rev. T. B, Tress, the latter
of whom has a charming church all to himself, and
whose “parting” has long enslaved the ladies of
his parish. Mr. Tress is, by the way, a preacher of
the cuff-and-pockethandkerchief school; and with
these aids to theological oratory, he makes effects
which may best be described as “ thrilling.” And
in all his effects Mr. Tress has but one aim. He
knows he is good, truthful, charitable and lovely.
All he aspires for, now, is to be winning. Mr.
Walker, joint-manager with Mr. Tress, is a disin-
terested vessel who one day took a bold flight and
established sixpenny meals for the Christian Voung
Men of his Association. He presided over the first
table d'hote. Horror! Hunks of corned-beef and
s abs of stew disappeared miraculously, like chaff
before the winds ; blocks of suet pudding and
piles of plum-duff seemed to conjure themselves
down capacious throats ; cruets of vinegar
vanished in the twinkling of an eye; and there was
left in the sauce-bottle, after the banquet, but the
cork and the smell. Then, after the people had
been fed, lo, David girded up his loins, and hied
him to a distant spot, where he communed with
himself in silence and in sorrow. Last time we
saw Mr. W. was at the Coffee Palace. He
had a muflin in one hand and a tract in the
other, and seemed to be dividing his at-
tention between the two. But we rather
think the muflin got the best of it. The efforts of
these gentlemen were supplemented by a body of
“workers,” all of whom were distinguished by a
badge, in which they resembled stewards at the
banquet of Glory, at least ticket-porters who had
gone right. They were very busy, these workers,
and a bit autocratic; but they succeeded in keep-
insr the vast audience (vocalization excepted) in
excellent order. Indeed, any one of them would
have made a capital acting-manager for a show of
any magnitude.
* * *
Mrs. Hampson is either in earnest or is not;
hut, however that may be, she undoubtedly under-
stands her business. In person she is a stout,
“middle-aged” party; and her appearance sug-
gests that whatever she sacrifices in the cause of
evangelism, none of her “ little eight” meals a day
go with it. Dr. Somerville was equally rotund;
and they can tell you at the Royal Hotel, where
he was staying, weird stories of how they com-
pounded for him, under his instructions, holy hag-
gis and the rdgouts of revivalism. Dr. Somerville's
mission was, so far as the general public was con-
cerned, a mission of mystery. Ho left his church
at Glasgow, and came out hero With the avowed
intention of preaching repentance into the hearts
of the people. What he certainly did do, however,
was to preach money into ins pockets, and, when
lie loft, may have been said, if not to have cleaned
out the town, at least to have “skinned” that sec-
tion cf the community which likes its religion
highly spiced and strongly seasoned. Once Dr.
Somerville was gone, people forgot all about him;
those who had “ parted” being quite content with
the situation, judging that the labourer in the
vineyard of glory was quite worthy of his hire.
Then there was Chimquy s mission, which was to
build “colleges” for “converted monks,” and
shut them up on the same principle, we suppose,
that Mr. VulBn incarcerated his knock-kneed
giants—because he was afraid to let them be seen
in public. Then Varley had a mission, and Dowie
had one; while Frank Warden did tolerably well
sousing mad women in Foley’s Haths until the
spirits moved him to tumble head first into the
fountain. Under these circumstances, “missions”
have ceased to enthral us; and that of Mrs. Hamp-
son is no exception. But while we are not much
interested in Mrs. Hampson's mission, we are ex-
ceedingly interested In Mrs. Hampson—as you
will see.
* * *
It was not without some difficulty that we
made the ascent of the platform, and certainly we
should never have been successful in accomplish-
ing this end had it not been for the exertions of
the “ workers,” who, in their endeavours to oblige
us, created some confusion amongst the worship-
pers—notably in the case of an elderly gentleman,
in a grey coat, who had gone fast asleep, and who
on being unceremoniously woke up, and his dazed
eye catching sight of the saw-dust, appeared under
the impression that lie was at the circus. Once on
the platform, we were in an odour of sanctity that
caus.-d us not inconsiderable embarrassment and
humiliation. We could see nobody wicked up
there but ourselves. It is true that one male
chorister put part of a withered leaf (there were
plenty on the stage) down the neck of a lady
warbler who was attired in several colours; but
this was only done in a spirit of piety.
Mrs. Hampson conducts her service with a screen
behind her ; an arrangement which cuts off from
the people on the platform all but transient
glimpses of the fair revivalist—a state of affairs
not to be borne by anyone who had not previously
been indulged Avith a “ front aucav.” We had a
greedy look at her from, the stalls when Ave lirst
got in, so Avere sufficiently loaded up Avith glory
not to hunger uncomfortably during the rest of
the evening. But, even on the platform Ave Avere
consoled at Intervals. For when Mrs. H. gave out
the hymns, Ave suav her foot. Mechanical science
has not yet evolved a screen that could hide that I
• W v
We don’t know Iioav much religion Mrs.
Hampson possesses, chielly, avc think, because Ave
cannot read through a black silk jacket and other
trifles; but she has certainly a considerable amount
of histrionic ability. She Avould undoubtedly, avc
should say, succeed on the stage; and Avhile Ave
cannot, in our ignorance of certain details, im'ite
Mrs. H. to appear at, Anna Dickenson (in the same
line! has done in *• Hamlet,” Ave think she Avould
shine especially in the tearfully tragic role of
Mrs. Bouncer. Mrs. Hampson declaims her
hymns, spools her prayers, and reduces her ad-
dresses to so many dramatic points, which she
makes relentlessly one by one, pausing in
a circo-religious manner for the crop of
“ amens ” and “hallelujahs” with which her
discourse is liberally rewarded. Mrs. Hampson,
Ave may remark, en passant, is said to have devoted
herself to this mission because she is “ all alone in
the world a AvidoAv Avod to the Avork of revival.
Well, we are not alone just now ; but as soon as
little Obadiah is apprenticed to the blacksmith, and
she to Avhom Ave have promised and voAved receives
regular employment at the laundry, Ave are open
to risk the chances of a mission like that of Mrs.
Hampson.
• • •
Mrs. H ’s service is practically the same as
that of the Salvation Harmy, the members of
which, by the way, have been pensive since Mrs.
Hampson’s arrival, the attendance both at the
“little glory shop” and the " orl” having during
the last Aveek Avoefully fallen off. There is but a
sickly blast now in the Cornet of Canty, and the
Rondos of Reynolds are but feeble strains Avafted
on the zephyrs of even toAvards the neighbouring
glue-works.
• • •
The Exhibition service commenced with
an extempore prayer by a long thin man, Avhich
was nearly as long and quite as thin as himself. A
hymn succeeded this ; and afterwards Mrs. H. Avas
good enough to read to us the 55th chapter of
Isaiah, in the course of which occurred the follow-
ing : “Ye shall buy Avine and milk without money
and without price,”—a sentiment Avhich Avas re-
ceived Avith much cheerfulness. After this
came a hymn, then a prayer, and then a
pitch preliminary. There Avas much lire in this,
but the iteration was terrible. I& Avas like a verbal
treadmill—a long ladder of voluminous verbosity.
Here is a sample:—“ What is Bln doing for you?
It is not nourishing you, it is not feeding you, it is
not satisfying you.” Strangely like (a coincidence,
of course), is it to this style of oratory, for in-
stance —Chadband: “ Peace be on this house! On
the master thereof, on the mistress thereof, on the
young maidens, and on the young men! My
f'riends, why do I wish for peace ? What is peace ?
Is it Avar? No. Isitstrife? No. Is it lovely, and
gentle, and beautiful, and pleasant, and serene,
and joyful ? O yes! Therefore, my friends, I wish
for peace, upon you and j ours.” This style, hoAV-
ever, Avas less apparent in her first discourse; but,
subsequently, when she delivered (with a hymn
interval only) another sermon of an hour’s or so’s
duration, the effect, Avith all her eloquence,
grew so monotonous that even the Anti-Latch-
key Society nodded, and sleep Avas in the
drooping eyes of the platform bald-heads. She
preached from the first Epistle of Paul to some
people Avho are now dead; but she practically
strayed all over the Scriptures. Mrs. H. stated, by
Avay of commencement, that the text had “come
to her” while in the building that night—a quite
unnecessary statement, for no man Avould be so
ungallant us to suspect the lady in all the tAventy
years or so of her mission of ever having re-deli-
vered a sermon I No cheating, you knoAV I No !
no !
• • •
The key-stone of Mrs. Hampson’s sermon
was that avc Avere to “ Dome and be Saved.”
“ Come,” she cried, “to the Fountain!” (always the
Fountain!) “Come” (Avith great dramatic force)
“and take a drink.” We had then been in the
building about tAvo hours, and at this the unfortu-
nates in the centre, avIio Avere hemmed in by the
Anti-Latch Key and Anti-Supper-beer Societies,
shuttled their shoes uneasily. And Ave got these
same exhortations until all our religion oozed out
of our finger-tips; and if Ave could have got at the
young man at the south door, we Avould have had
his life Avith a hymn-book. Later, she told us an
anecdote. It Avas an affecting thing. It seems
that there was once a Judge whose son, being ad-
dicted to the society of opera-bouffers, “sinned
grievously,” and Avas brought before his father
the Judge for trial. The jury having, with a cal-
lous indifference to a father’s feelings, promptly'
found the prisoner guilry, the Judge (this
is rather a crib from “King John,” dear Mrs.
H.) ordered that his son’s eyes should
be put out. “What hope,” said His Honor,
donning a cap of many colours, can there be for
an abandoned sinner such as you ? When you have
had any money you have Avasted your substance
in tea-gardens, shouted ginger-beer for riotous
company at Tennyson ; and Avhen you have had
none, you have; been a A T ery ghost at land-sale
lunches.” The Judge then ordero t (and very pro-
perly) that his son’s eyes should be put out. “What
a position,” sobbed Mrs. H., “for that father to be
in !” She didn’t enlarge upon that of the son, Avho
couldn’t have felt very comfortable. But, mark
the sequel. DoAvn comes the Judge from the
bench, and, calling Abrahams (how are you,
dear boy ?) to bring along the irons, seats
himself by his son’s side in the dock. Then
he says: “ My son, you have only got tAvo
eyes, and if I have them both burned out
you will have none left.” (Applause at His Honor’s
sagacity, which Avas immediately suppressed by
the ushers). “ Two from two—nought/’ murmured
the prisoner. Then the Judge intimates that, as
the laAV demands two eyes, he Avill have one out,
and his son Avill have one out, so that the require-
ments of justice may be satisfied. He doesso; and
avc believe this yarn, too, for it Avas only the other
day that a one-eyed man stole our umbrella.
* * *
At the conclusion of her sermon, Mrs.
Hampson stated that that Avas only “theground-
Avork of her mission,” and enti’eated those Avho
Avished for some more of it to stay; and especially
invited all of us to go inside one of the kneeling-
places, and commune Avith the Avorkers. But Ave
felt that to stay longer Avould bo greedy, so we
Avept ourselves aAvay. Once outside—having dex-
terously avoided the young man Avith the plate—
it dawned upon us hoAv horribly Avicked we Avere.
At that moment, a bell rang—bang, bang—with a
thousand reverberations through the silent city.
Then we felt, as we had but feeble hopes at present
of the Golden Shoah, that we Avould go to Avhat
Avas more appropriate to our sinful state—A fire.
A SONG OF SOLOMON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, never in the world was such a show
Of bulbous lips and dromedary noses,
As when to Darlinghurst did gaily go
In eager swarms the countrymen of Moses,
To see the Wise Man (wise, for he said “No-
No, not a penny !”) on a couch of roses,
With “mugs” that each had smiles that spoke a
volume on
(The only solemn one was that of Solomon).
“ Shemomiucc!” the Chosen People cried,
“ Von’t someone have to fork the mohish over
It Horwitz vins it.” Then each Hebrew tried
To calcul te what damages he’d go lor
If ever his sedate Semitic bride
Should take a fancy to a moneyed lover;
But, as he couldn’t, eyed the Judge’s wig, or
His vest, and reckoned what would be their
figure.
But “ Silence in the Court 1” The plaintiff, who
Is called petitioner, appears. The papers
Describe him as a very handsome Jew
(O Moses!), and the eyes of all the gapers
Are turned upon him sis he rambles through
The story of his wife’s surprising capers,
From that first night, when, whispering close her
ear to,
(Like Lucifer) he found the shy Alberto.
This was the way the trouble came to pass:
Ho meandered out when they let down the
curtain
(’Twas at the play), no doubt to have a glass
Of Thistle Blond or Schnapps, or British Burton,
And coming back his eye beheld, alas!
This simple youth, whom he believed no hurt
in
(About such “cakes” oft may the keenest judge
err),
Sit in his seat beside his wife—and Nudge her.
Whereat he grew indignant, and denied
His door to Henry A., and waxed quite stiff in
His bearing towards him, but the shy one hied
Home to his rooms, and, giving the “ straight
grilHn ”
To his sad landlady, took house beside
The tenement his lovely “ Flo.” did live in,
That he might twig her hubby’s nightcap pinned
to
The curtain-tassel of her bedroom window,
AVhere, suddenly returning one fine day,
The hubby saw her sit as one who lingers
In dalliance with a man across the way;
And, watching, saw her utter on her fingers
Such things as Hebrew ladles shouldn’t say;
And dodging upstairs, gave her several stingers
Across the face for this, and for ttie reason
That she had nothing but her best chemise on.
And, after this, she oft went out at night,
And sad she only went to see seances;
And muni tested most extreme delight
At being thrown into mesmeric trances—
And, what seemed oddest in an Israelite,
She took the most extravagant of fancies
For buying groceries—he couldn’t stop her
From going shopping even at hours improper.
And then she suddenly one day cleared out,
And took the children with her to the Koyal,
Which was the final stop that brought about
The plaintiff's woe, and wrecked his wedded
joy all.
For, though he thought her flighty, he’d no doubt
That she was fairly virtuous and loyal;
But, going there to kiss her ere she slumbered,
She told him to make tracks or else be “lum-
bered."
Then Mag. M'Laren struck the box, and swore
That when the Injured husband left his Flora,
While letting Anne Fitzgerald through the door,
She saw this new edition of Tamora
Embrace her “lovely Aaron,” who once more
Was fluttering near his splendid-eyed Aurora;
And after this she heard the lawyers speaking,
And — . . . ■
Then came the cabmen bold who heard the coos
Of these two ring-doves in their cabs’ recesses—
Ye who peruse Ibis tale of La Perousc
Bear well in mind the sorrows and distresses
Of these poor loving, persecuted Jews,
Whose amours led to such infernal messes;
And never drive out in a close-shut carriage
With ihose who are not yours in holy marriage.
And then the fair respondent toed the mark—
A splendid woman, this respondent, truly
Saint Anthony's forbearance was no lark
Were all his tempters, cunning and unruly,
As sweet as this one—What’s the rumpus ? Hark!
All right—we'll be with you directly, Jooly 1
(It’s our old woman—seem’s she's got her blood
up
Yelling to us to go and belt some wood up.)
What were wo saying ?—oh, the giddy wife
Pitched quite a very different sort of story,
And vowed she’d led a most unhappy life
With Horwitz, who was quite a monster gory;
For ever seeking some small cause of strife,
And never in what one might call his glory,
Save when deploring wearing Hymen’s fetters
Or burning native flowers or school-girl letters.
She also said that he himself was sweet
Upon a girl, who notably was naughty,
And whom ho used quite frequently to meet
Within her own baronial mansion haughty
(The house was said to be in Ooulburn-strcet);
And when she told him several things she
thought, he
As usual, letting all his anger seethe out.
Squared up and knocked her artificial teeth out.
And this, the wife declared, was not the worst:
His love for her was but the faintest flicker—
Ho did not treat her kindly from the first.
And did, on several occasions, kick her
Kight out of bed. The crowd at Darlinghurst
At this felt all their pulses beating quicker,
And thought “ Had we been he, you wicked Fate,
you,
We would not kick you out and say ‘I hate
you.’ ”
And, furthermore, she said that all the time
In public places, or in places private.
At tragedy, or farce, or pantomime,
Her husband would perpetually drive at
Such low remarks as but a soul of grime
Could revel in, and pelt a lovely wife at;
And afte- coming home would “give her
Macc, ’ or
On high would brandish the avenging razor.
Then Armand Ilosenfeldt waltzed up, and said
That he was the petitioner’s relation
By marriage; also that he had been wed
At Horwitz’ house by special Invitation;
Who had a most Lucullian banquet spread
To greet the splended nuptial celebration.
The which—a dire calamity we sob for—
Poor Armand had to part with uni ty bob for.
And that, when Horwitz afterwards complained
Of the most evil ways his wife was far in,
And how his bosom had been racked and pained
By the disclosures of the girl MT.aren,
He found the witness rather crooked-grained.
And quite inclined to do a bit of sparring,
And very quickly, his Judaic nose on, felt
The fist of angry unforgiving Kosenfeldt.
Now rose the blushing co-respondent, who
Was quite the lovjhest of little fellows,
And looked too innocent to say or do
One thing to wake a passion like Qthello's.
He testified that it was nowise true
That he had questioned if Miss M. was jealous—
He thought the notion too intensely utter,
The lady mentioned being a fat six-footer.
Knew the respondent ? Yes—well, that was, he
Was almost certain of it, now—yes, rather;
Took lodg ings, seeing he con Id not agree
On several little matters with his lather.
Saw Mrs. Horwitz beckon hurriedly.
And naturally went across to gather
What was the trouble—found her husband ruth-
less—
Had gouged ’em out again, and left her tooth-
less.
Went off at once as fast as he could trot.
Thinking the loss of grinders would annoy her,
And fetched, as quickly as they could be got,
A locksmith for the ivories, and a lawyer
To fumble with his lingers round the knot
That tied the victim to her Tooth-Destroyer ;
Then, after sundry immaterial dodgings
Outside the house, he furnished her with lodg-
ings—
And so on, and so on; a pleasant tale
Of friendship high, and holy, and Platonic,
Where all was righteous, and without the pale
Of love illicit, stormy, and Ryronic ;
Yet all its innocence had no avail—
The jury only smiled a smile sardonic.
And took their peosand wrote Five Thousand,
quickly,
While all assembled Judah’s smile waxed sickly.
THE LATE MU. E. A. SCARVELL.


The Government boring party have struck
otprnear Bourke. The other Government Boring
?»rtv have done much better. They have struck
whisky and fat capons all over the colony.
a cock -sparrow got into the Newcastle
mirt-house last week and began to chirp. Ho
«r«s immediately committed for contempt. The
majesty of the law must be upheld.
The W.A. Government lately imported 100
Koahels of lime in casks, for the purpose of “white-
washing the police stables.” We should like to
£nnw how much lime it would take to white-wash
the police.
A West Australian politician considers the
hisckfellow as “ only a higher development of the
kangaroo." One grade above the politician, that
is Politicians, you know, still retain the pouch.
Sub-inspector Brown, of Melbourne, de-
rinre* the chief factory for the manufacture of
Skeleton keys in Victoria is Pentridge Stockade,
•nd the chief manufacturers are prisoners, during
their leisure hours. This comes of the chaplains
Explaining that the Devil always tinds mischief for
idle hands to do.
A little monstrosity was lately born in
Melbourne. It has no arms and double-jointed
ws and feeds itself with its feet. Nice way to be
into the world, isn’t it? We wonder what
this creature will be when it grows up! Perhaps
a nolioeman. But, no. We forgot—it has no hand
fn rut behind its back, and it is not easy to put a
foot into a pocket. As it is particularly ill for
nothing, they will probably make a judge of it,
according to the usual custom in such cases.
A tremendous explosion of sewer-gas oc-
curred at Ultimo, (Sydney), on Tuesday. Some
workmen had covered the sewer apertures
with earth, and the explosion followed soon after.
The mains were burst and the earth cast aside
iT a considerable distance. Fortunately no ac-
cident to human life occurred.
In the English public elementary schools,
the school life Is shorter and the results smaller
’J>an those of any of the progressive States on the
European Continent. As the school life in the
■\ew South Wales Public schools is shorter and
the results smaller than those of the English
schools, Wilkinsism can hardly be regarded as a
triumphant success.
Smart. Three cows were lately stolen
from a selector living near Colac (Vic.) They
were sold by auction at Colac, bought, taken away,
stolen again, and removed back to the paddock
trom which they had been originally taken. The
owner never missed them. If the thieves happen
o fcad this paragraph, let them take it as a hint
nun there is an opening for them over here. Or
win be—after next general election.
The directors of the “ Queen Company” on
V*® Palmer supply the contractors for sinking,
driving, cross-cutting, and breaking, with dyna-
mite and candles. It appears to take about a box
sperms and half a ton of dynamite to prepere a
rruck of quartz for the mill, so that * ounce-stuff
he left below. The local paper delicately
■unis that, “had the contractors to find their own
less than one-half would have been
.“ted. and more muscular force been brought to
the output of quartz.” There may be
something in It.
God has made no revelation which points
to a life beyond the grave; even Moses tells us
nothing about it. God is, perhaps, not quite
pleased that the pious 'eel so tinnly persuaded of
a future life. In his Fatherly kindness, he wishes,
perhaps, to give us a pleasing surprise.”—Heinrich
Heine.
The Rev. John Osborne declares that not
one Presbyterian minister now-a-days preaches the
Westminster Confession, and that it is better to
drive 50,000 M’Eacherns out of Australia’s pulpits
than one Charles Strong. Half our ministers don’t
know what they preach, and the balance don’t
seem to care; but fancy letting 50,000 M’Eacherns
loose upon us! Better start another Deluge.
The Yass ('ourier of Friday, 14th Sep-
tember, gave the account of a court case held in
Yass—Dr. Hosts v. W. O’Brien, unlawfully using a
horse. The Bench fined O’ Brien 10s. and costs; and
when the lawyer asked for increased fee, the Bench
answered (so the Courier says) like this: “The
Bench will only allow the usual fee of £1 Is., and
two witnesses 5s. each, or two months in gaol.”
Dangerous to be a witness these times.
Whatev. r else you can fool with in this
country, you can’t fool with the Law. Twelve
persons, of the kind usually described with line
satire as “ good men and true.” were requested to
give their verdict on a case tried up at Narrabrl
the other day. What did they do ? They tried to
fool with the law, and would not agree on a ver-
dict. What did the law do ? It shut them up in a
room 10 ft. by 13 ft., and left them to lie there all
night without blankets. How they managed to lie
down, we don’t know: wo suppose they took it in
turns. But the majesty of the law was upheld, and
a verdict was squeezed out of the twelve.
On Thursday, between the race days, a
pigeon match was shot off on the Maitland race-
course, which brought together nineteen shooters,
without any metropolitans. Harding, who killed
21 consecutive birds the other day at Wuggn,
having entered as Wilson, at Maitland, got in at 28
yards, the “scratch" being 28, and he won with
ton points, Messrs. C. Baldwin and J. B. Wolfe
being next with nine each. The weather was
miserable, and the birds below par.
Queensland items are to hand. Most of
them are political, and have to do with the late
election. At Herborton, a man had to explain the
part he took in “ impersonation during the
struggle. Being a modest man himself, he got
Billv Little to explain it for him. The tour pre-
siding magistrates were violently Ministerialist.
Billy appears to have made a horse ol himself. He
explained his client’s action by asserting that the
soul of the late James Carey—patriot, assassin, and
informer —had arrived in Herberton. As the
“ beaks ” failed to see the connection (we, our-
selves, with all our sharpness, are In the same fix),
fiere was laughter in the “Coort. One of the
magistrates clapped his hands and asked for more...
Coolies and Chinese are even In worse odour away
North than they are in N.S.W. Miners especially
have an “edge” n them. Yet, up Herberton way,
the minors voted for Macrossan, whose pet foible
is to have Coolies in Queensland as thick as leaves
in Vallambrosa. A newly-created J.P. was
presiding oiflcer at one election in the I ur North.
There were 45 voters, but when the box was
. opened 83 papers dropped out. A newly-
created ” magistrate 1 U hy a man with a talent
like this for public affairs should have been
on the bench years ago. There’s no knowing what
be may come to in a place like Queensland—If he
only pulls himself together a bit.
Two million pounds sterling! That just
represents to a penny the amount of money voted
by Victoria for defences—forts and batteries, and
things, from behind which you shoot people; also
for decorated figures to direct the shooting-
colonels and captains, and so on. “ Spirited
policy” is the phrase they hpply to this kind of
action. Gunboats they have, too, which in a few
years will be about as much use as armour-plated
shoe-trunks. Victoria is keeping up the tine old
tradition that Britons “never never.” Down
South, blood is the password, gore the counter-
sign.
He was an irreverent observer of the Eng-
lish bishops who wrote of them, as they appeared
recently fn the House of Lords: “There sat some
seventeen elderly persons in Episcopal robes, their
puffed lawn sleeves suggesting in a rather curious
way that a feminine element, not youthful either,
had somehow found its way into the House. Look
at their faces. The stamp of their profession is on
them. Nobody would say that these are men of
the world, or men of business, or men of affairs.
The pinched lips, t he eyes mostly too near together,
the skin drawn firmly over cheek and ohm, the
sloping corners of bitter mouths, the nir of sancti-
mony, of always posing befoe the world—all this
and much more t he most casual observer may see
ns he glances at this phalanx of spiritual legisla-
tors.”
A very curious and suggestive scene took
place before the Chief Justice in the Supremo
Court of W. A. some years back. At the previous
sittings a man had boon arraigned for wilful
murder, but although the evidence told strongly
against him yet as two of the chief witnesses were
aboriginals the jury were not satisfied, and after a
long recess acquitted him. Determined to hung
some one, the police at the next scissions put one of
the former aboriginal witnesses in the dock on the
same charge, bringing the man previously
acquitted forward as a witness in his turn. On
entering the box the latter turned deathly pale,
trembled, though a powerful man, like a loaf in
the wind, and was utterly unable for some time to
answer a single query. The Judge, casting a
peculiar look upon him, addressed him in the fol-
lowing comforting strain: “You need not be
afraid, witness, to tell the truth. You have already
been tried for the murder and acquitted. You
cannot be tried again.” It is needless to say the
case against the darkie thoroughly broke down.
A special schoolroom was not long since
built for nineteen half-caste children who attend
the Yass convent school. Wo suppose special an-
nexes will be built for their accommodation in
heaven, if the white saints will tolerate their ad-
mittance there at all, which we are under the
impression they will not. Fancy—if you can with-
out shattering your intellect—the sou I of any lately
sainted clergyman sitting side by side with the
spirit of a beatified blackfollow or celestlallsed
half-caste 1....Melbourne Unitarians, who have for
some time been trying to procure a minister from
England, have now made overtures to Kev. w.
Sharman, of Plymouth — A detachment of the
Permanent Artillery Is to bo detailed for duty at
the next meeting of the Mol ourne Presbytery.
Mr. Service is determined to keep the peace...
Bishop Moorhousethinks “ Divinity” the highest,
noblest, and most blessed of all professions
On the lately-ceded province of Alsace,
the Germans arc forcing their military system
with merciless rigour. Thirty-eight young men,
many belonging tothe richest families in the land,
received sentences raging from three months tons
many years’ imprisonment— without the option of
a tine—for endeavouring to evade the conscription,
or persuading others to do so. Six medical officers
stood accused of diagnosing in young men, who
did not want to serve, diseases that never existed
in them. Of those six. not less than four arc said
to have died suddenly of “palsy of the heart.’*
Considering how France and Germany crouch
ready to spring at each other’s throats and margin
the Rhino with a few hundred thousand corpses,
Alsace is probably the most undesirable strip of
land in the Northern Hemisphere for a young man
to see the light in. Pulled one way by his sym-
pathies with “ La Grande Nation, the “ Father-
land" pulls him back to swell its ranks and tight
against his brothers of yesterday. The fate of the
unfortunate Poles whom Cossack whips drove
into Russian battalions was merciful compared
wit h it. They at least were drafted to tight against
the semi-savages of Central Asia, and had not.
like the unfortunates of Alsace, to look forward to
a conflict with their own flesh and blood.
It would be interesting to know how many
persons not holding certlllcates of having passed
the Civil Service, or any ol the University exams.,
have been appointed to Government billots since
the N.S.W. Parliament resolved that no one
should bo appointed save and except ho or she
possessed such cortllicate—It would be a more
consistent and logical plan to give the French
reason*, based on the facta that Australians have
to hand in galore, why for their own sakos they
should not despatch recidlvlstes to the Pacific
colonies than to characterise os Infamous measures
which after all onh imitate a course that England
was pursuing Josh than half a centuryago—In
N.Z. there arc now 527,700 whites and 40.000 Maoris.
.... For years and years past the H.M. Hkkald has
been the persistent advocate of the advantages she
alleges arc the result of a nominee Upper Cham-
ber. It must have been something, therefore, of
the nature of a shock to the Peers of New South
Wales to come across the following words in the
Echo: “It is high time for the country to ask
whether the task .f sending members to th»
Council should rest with the Government at all.
A nominee Upper House has its advantages, but
these are outweighed by its disadvantages. As
long as men are appointed by the chiefs of politi-
cal parties they will be appointed for other reasons
than their fitness.”
Early in August in the Commons Mr.
Secretary Trevelyan informed Mr. Healy that only
one person had gone out to N.S.W. under the
Government emigration scheme... .The total force
at the disposal of the Triple Alllanco-Gcnnany,
Italy, and Austro-Hungary—represents 9,734,000,
while France and Russia combined could only
oppose to these fl,300,000. The total number of
soldiers liable to duty in case of a general European
war would therefore bo 10,0;M,000 .. Mr. Archibald
Murray gets £800 a year as Clerk of the Petty Rug,
and Lord Eomiily takes £1300 a year as Clerk of
the Enrolments, both oilleos being under the
Supreme Court of Judicature. The Joke 1st’
there is not a single lawyer in the Commons »< l.o
is able to dcllao what are tho duties of either 1 idet.
PIYOR^£D.
GS)GQDeD.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING INDEX.
In consequence of the length to which the
Index to Races to come, Entries. Weights and For-
feits extends, we are forced to devise means for
economising space. Readers will find the column
regularly headed with a list of fixtures to
be attended to within the month; which will be
followed by names and dates of Race-meetings to
be held in the more distant future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
Goulburn Races September 28.
Sydney Turf Club Weights September 27.
Musclebrook Races September 27, 28.
Marulan Races, Victorian Trotting Races, .sept. 29.
Bega Acceptances October -V
Bega Races • • October 3.
Narrabri Races Octob^er 3, 4.
Sydney Turf Club Races October 6.
Melbourne Hunt Club Races October 6.
Wollongong Entries for Handicap.......October 6.
V.A.T.C. Races October 13,20.
Wollongong and Berrima Entries October 16.
Sydney T.C. Annivex-say Handicap and
Tattersall’s Cup close October 18.
Wollongong T.C. Annual October 24. 2o.
Hay N.Y.R.C October 25, 26.
Berrima District Races October 30. 31.
Tamworth Handicaps close November 1.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8,10.
FUTURE RACES.
Victoria Trotting Club November 7.
Willlamstown RC. (V.) November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
Coolah (Annual) November 9.
MurrumWdgee T.C November 21, 22. 2b.
Bendigo J.C. (V.) November 28, 29.
Narandera J.C .November 29, 30.
Tamworth R.C. (Summer) December!, 6.
Warialda J.C,. December 12, 13.
Liverpool J.C ■ December 22.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
PleasntCreek (V.) December^.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1,1884.
Sydney T.C January 26.
Tattersall’s R.C. (Summer) .... February 13,14,15.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 5’ I’
Hawkesbury R.C (Autumn) April 3, 5.
AQUATICS
M.R.C. Annual Regatta .. September 29.
Green (8.A.) v. Wood (Vic.), at Melbourne..8ept 29.
New South Wales Association Regatta ..October 6.
Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club 1st Class
Race October 13.
Double Bay Regatta .. October 27.
Balmain Regatta .November 9.
Champagne Cup November 17.
All Comers Regatta December
National Regatta January 26, 1884.
ATHLETICS.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
Bathurst Sheffield Handicap November 9.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ R.W.” (Lachlan): Your query has been answered
scores of times. There has been no thorough-
bred hox-se named Sir Hercules imported from
Europe to Australia.
“ New Chum”: We do not remember a horse start-
ing for the Melbourne Cup with 11 stone up;
but Archer and The Barb were both handi-
capped at that weight or over.
“ M P. ’: Le Gx-and may have been sold, for all we
know. Such unnecessary mystery is simple
" time was done in New Zealand; not
in Australia.
“ Ethan Allan”: If you fancy you have a trotter,
take him to Melbourne, where they will soon
give lilm a “ recoi’d,” and find him out.
“Good Spec”: It is no part of our business to
draw comparisons between trainex-s and joc-
keys. We do not believe In the particular Con-
sultations you mention.
“ G H R.”: The pi-ices of blood yearlings run from
20 to 2000 guineas—often during one day’s sale.
Turf Federation.
Although the negotiations carried on during two
or three years between the ruling race clubs of
N.S. W. and Victoria, with a view of bringing about
a uniform system of racing laws eventually failed
of their object, the committee of the A.J.C. have,
at any rate, promulgated a code of rules and by-
laws for the conduct of racing within this colony,
by which it is sought to bind all clubs accepting
the leadership of the A.J.C., and registering them-
selves under its rules. The main point insisted
upon by the premier club is that all other clubs
determining to race under A.J.C. rules must be
registered with the secretary ; and, by way of
compelling this registration and conformity to the
Metropolitan rules by the most convincing penalty,
it has been enacted that any horses running under
the auspices of clubs that may be out of confor-
mity, are thereby disqualified from running at any
meeting held in accordance with Jockey Club re-
quirements. The V.R.C. its sine qua non,
Die publication of all recognised programmes in
an official racing calendar, published by and under
its especial authority ; and thus there is some
guarantee that the recognised rules of racing will
not be infringed, either by Cornstalk racing men,
or their immediately Southern neighbours. For
ourselves, we incline to the official calendar of the
Victorians, rather than to the registration clause
of our own magnates ; the former being a con-
venient medium of requisite turf information, of
which every owner of horses may avail himself at
a moderate cost, while the register of the A.J.C. is
confined to the archives of that body.
By paying the certainly reasonable subscription
to the V.R.C. Racing Calendar, every owner of a
racehorse is supplied with all the information he can
possibly require, as to the proper provincial clubs
to be patronised, and he receives the fullest official
warning of the dates on which he must make his
entries or declare his forfeits. The registering of
clubs by the secretary of the A.J.C. has no such
recommendation for the turfite, but, on the con-
trary leaves him very much in the dark as to what
clubs’are eligible, and how many race meetings it
Is right for him to enter his nags at. There
are now so many quasi sporting newspapers
bidding for advertising favours from race
secretaries, as to make announcements in all
or nearly all of them a matter of too heavy outlay
for struggling country clubs—a remark which will
apply equally to the subscribing capability of
race-horse owners and trainers; and thus we can
easily realise the fact that racing residents of
country districts are by no means certain to know
what clubs are, and what are not, registered.
Those necessary supporters of the turf, the men
who own and train ahorse or two, can hardly take
every journal published in sporting guise; neither
can country secretaries advertise more than once
or twice in a metropolitan medium. Also, it is
very unlikely that these owners of small racing
studs will always read the particular paper in
which all the country programmes are made
public. We are, therefore, forced to the belief
that the plan of federation at present worked by
the A J.C. is not as well adapted for the purpose as
the calendar system in vogue over the Murray.
In view of the difficulty of acquiring an accurate
knowledge of registered clubs, it is not unnatural
that outlying horse-owners think the penalty of
disqualification a trifle too heavy on horses that
may by accident be entered and raced at
an unregistered meeting, or under the
auspices of a non-conformist club ; and
such a punishment seems more than commensurate
with the offence, when we consider that there are
no published rules, in the Jockev Club’s latest
edition, for compelling registered clubs to observe
the A.J.C code in its entirety, or even so far as
may be practicable under circumstances differing
widely from those of the parent society. We can-
not find a word in the book of rules issued by the
club oroviding any penalty for a breach of the
rules or laws after registration, although there is
mention of a power in the hands of the A.J.
Club to withdraw the registration or refuse it
altogether. We are not told, however, for what
laches this power may be exercised. It is pretty
certain that many of the registered clubs will find
no slight difficulty in working up to the letter as
well as the spirit of the A.J.C. rules ; wherefore it
is, possinly, well for such as are prevented b»
insuperable di sabilitios, that no penalty is provide 1,
lor registering first, and being unabie to work up
to their promises afterwards. We observe that con-
siderable stress is laid on the regulation for closing
stakes at 4 p.m., on the advertised dates, and Mr.
Cli born has called particular attentio to this rule,
as well as to the necessity for observing it to the
very letter. Vet It may be doubted whether there
is one rule in the whole code of less importance to
the well-being of a club, or the success of its races,
than this one; and still it is the only one that has
had special attention called to it. In fact, it may
fairly be said that to close stakes at 4 p.m, instead
of 8 o’clock, or even 9, is a positive injury to many
“ bush” race-meetings; and there is really n thing
in the early closing regulation except the name.
Take, for example, a town having a tri-weekly,
or worse still, only a bi-weekly post, arriving very
likely at six, seven, or eight in the evening, if the
secretary fixes his entrance night to utilize the
post day as far as possible, there can surely be no
harm in making eight or nine the closing hour,
instead of four. But this is the only A.J.C. rule
that great stress has been laid upon. At these
country meetings the general entry is very often
made on the night before racing, and many far-off
residents come considerable distances to enter their
horses at night, and see them run on the morrow.
The countrymen come from afar off, and it suits
them, for time’s sake, to do their journey between
the noon meal and the hour of entry, which has
for years been one of the considerations causing
race secretaries to make their closing take
place at night. Here is a strong additional
reason for not following the A.J.C. peremptorily
in this very small particular, and itisnottoo much
to say that, so far as the matter of entrance hour
is concerned, there are plenty of arguments in
favour of independent action without one point-
ing to any appreciable gain by following the four
o’clock arrangement, which, as we all know, was,
in the first instance, made to suit the time and
convenience of citizens of the big smoke. In town
it answers admirably; but, for some time, at any
rate, it will cost many a horse to be left out of
country races, if it comes to apply to them in its
metropolitan entirety. We cannot help being
sceptical as to the bona fldes of some clubs in acting
strictly up to the rules in more important items
than the one specially advertised for the particular
behoof of secretaries.
We were forcibly reminded of all this the other
day, and how difficult it is to keep unaccustomed
people up to the mark when they are expected to
work under new rules. Every country meet-
ing will show how easily, and how certainly, many
of those rules can be evaded, which have been
passed for the particular purpose of raising
the character of colonial racing in the provinces,
and placing outlying clubs on an equal footing
with those at head-quarters. The oldest established
clubs, presided over by the most highly skilled
secretaries, are just those most liable to err, when
it comes to substituting some new rule for what
they have hitherto worked under; and there being
no penalty whatever hinted at for breach of regu-
lations, there’s nothing more certain than that
plenty of it will occur, when the rules which are
Infringed seem of very small importance. At
Maitland races, last week, there was one of those
events that have lately become popular in most
programmes, namely, a “Ladies’ Bracelet,” lor
nags nominated by ladies and steered by amateur
riders; and laymen would suppose that suen an
event would be just the one to bring out the gentle-
man jockey, “ got up ” in proper style, and, at any
rate, dressed in “clean jockey costume.” Al. but
one did show proper respect for the ladies whose
colours they wore, while acting up to the A.J.C.
rules; but that one had the most wonderful make-
up one could imagine or expect to see on such an
occasion.
Wneu the weighing-bell rang, and one of the
riders was seen sporting a pair of grey tweed trou-
sers, over which were drawn up at the ankles a
pair of “ Balbriggan ” socks, the whole set off by
elastic side boots and a pair of spurs, people thought
it very funny—the effect being heightened by the
“extensive” nature of the gentleman’s jacket; and
there being plenty of time, the officials were expos-
tulated with, on account of the bad example they
would set to other clubs, by allowing such a gross
infringement of the rules; but, as it appeared that
neither they nor the offending amateur cared a
jot, it's high time someone else took it up. If clubs
like the N J.C. allow such offences against the rules
when their “ aristocracy ” take the pigskin in the
Ladies’ cause, and if the A.J.C. have no power to
make the first offence the last, then, we say advis-
edly, “ the registration of clubs is all moonshine,”
and resort must be had to the lasso, according to
a plan adopted once upon a time in an American
city, where the “ dog nuisance ” was rampant.
Two skilled lassoists patrolled the streets and
roads, accompanied by a large cart; and every
dog found lying about was at once made amen-
able to the “ coils.” Caught round the neck
by one operator, and with one leg imprisoned by
the other, the unprotected cur was jerked into the
“ ambulance van,” and that was the last seen of
him. A friend suggested this treatment for the
grotesque amateur rider, but the club thought
differently, and so far from objecting to such
slovenly rig, allowed him of the Balbriggans to be
placed third, instead of recorded as “ distanced.”
The Jockey Club rule runs thus:—“Jockeys must
wear a thoroughly clean and appropriate dress ”—
and this is part of what the Northern Jockey Club
have been registered to carry out.
The Budget.
[BY NEW WARRIOR.]
In a leading: position for this week’s “Budget,” I
llnd Bega weights were promised for yesterday,
26th September; Goulburn races are fixed for Wed-
nesday and'Friday, 26th and 26th, with a big Pigeon
Match on the intervening day; Sydney T.C. weights
are due on 27th; Musclebrook x-aces are fixed tor
Thursday and Friday, 27th and 28th; and Marulan
races and the Victorian Trotting Club matches will
see the month out on Saturday, 29th. Bega ac-
ceptances are set for 1st October—next Monday,
and the races follow on Wednesday, the 3rd; al ter
whicfi there is but one fixture more within our
weekly limit, and that is at Narrabri, where the
well-to-do local club has its races on Wednesday
and Thursday, 3rd and 4th.
I believe I am right in saying that Mr. Richard
House has resigned his position as Starter to the
S.T.C. The information will not surprise anybody,
tor Mr. Rouse has not been fortunate in starting
fields of horses. Nothing could be more mark d
than the contrast between Mr. Rouse’s wielding of
the flag, and that of Mr. W. Gannon, at the A.J.O.
meeting a week or two ago. The office of starter
is at ail times very unthankful, and the S.T.C.
should consider well before appointing the “new ”
starter. I don’t think the flag could fall into
better hands than those of the starter to Tat-
tersall’s Club.
Last Thursday’s edition of the Melbourne Akous
set all doubts at rest concerning the mystery that
surrounded the ownership of the Derby winner,
Le Grand, Mr. Donald Wallace having authorised
that paper to announce him as the purchaser.
This comes, indeed, as a great “ facer ” so soon
after the fiat contradiction of Mr. Jost. I cannot
understand why he should have so strictly
adhered to the assertion that he was still the
owner of the son of Epigram. There’s no truer
or more genuine sportsman going than Mr,
Wallace, and Le Grand’s backers have the satis-
faction of knowing that he still belongs to one
above suspicion.
The H.R.C. Guineas winner, Kingsdale, has once
more changed his training quarters, and left Don-
nelly’s care for that of Lamond, at Zetland Lodge-
It is indisputable that the colt has run very well in
.Allsopp’sand Donnelly’s care ; and if Lamond gets
as much out of him, his owner may be con-
gratulated.
The following list show the sires wh se stock
have won upwards of a “ thou ” on the N.Z. Turf,
taken from the Canterbury Times Traducer,
£9000 ; Yattendon, £3416 : Albany, £3869 ; Day
Dawn, £3043 ; Anteros, £1853 ; Totara, £1760; St.
Albans, £1753; Ravensworth, £1740; Leolinus,
£1380 ; Dead Shot, £1181 ; Tubal Cain, £1069 : The
Painter, £U)44. These sums, of course, represent the
season ’83 and ’83. The same authority says that
Traducer’s stock have won during the last seven
seasons upwards of £63,000—a very nice win, indeed.
The biggest winner is the crack Welcome Jack, of
whose doings, having won almost all his races, we
in Australia have often heard, who heads the list
with prizes amounting to £3531. He has been
entered in the Melbourne Cup, and handicapped at
9st -not an ounce too much. If he is the “ clinker ”
represented. It is said to be doubtful that he will
be sent over for the coming 1 meeting. Judging by
some we have seen hailing from Maoriland—to wit,
Mata —the New Zealanders are not bad judges.
I understand that Navigator, Coir, Aide-de-
Camp, Nicholas, and the others comprising Mr.
De Mestre’s string, were to leave for Melbourne
overland on Wednesday, and, as one and all ap-
pear to be improving, they may reasonably be
expected to leave their mark at the V.R.C. meeting.
In a day or two, Monaghan and Tom Brown will
leave for Melbourne with their respective strings
of horses; and Fennelly, Allsopp, Keys, Lamond,
Lawson, and others will follow a few days later, so
that the business on the training grounds at Rand-
wick will be of very little importance.
Mr. D. F. Mackay has promised to give the West
Maitland Jockey Club two cups, valued at 35
guineas each, to be run for by the produce of
mares sent this season to Grandmaster and Lec-
turer. The cups are to be run for by two-year-
olds.
The numerous friends of Mr. Thomas Ivory will
be sorry to learn that he has lost the use of an eye,
and his medical adviser says that it is only with
the greatest caution he can expect to retain the
sight of the other. What with a long run of ill
luck in his stable, Dame Fortune has truly been
hard on the owner of the blue and straw.
I understand that the A.J.C. have decided to
prohibit left-handed working on the training-
grounds until after 7.30 o’clock in the mornings. This
is rightly so; for an accident could hardly be avoided
with a lot of horses, especially youngsters, work-
ing in opposite directions.
I hear that Footstep, First Water, Rory O’More,
and the Israelite have arrived safely in Melbourne
from Adelaide, and both the favourite for the
Caulfield Cup and First Water are pink as need be.
They are located at the Pastoral.
Mr. W. B. Dakin has resigned the managership of
Sir Thomas Elder’s horses; the reason given that
the trainer thought Sir Thomas’ horses were esti-
mated too highly by the Victorian handicapper.
The A.J.C., at a committee meeting held on
Tuesday week last, decided to charge all those
wishing to bet in the St. Leger Reserve at Rand-
wick, an annual fee of £10. I am pleased at this
move. Visitors to the Leger Reserve will miss the
well-known faces of scores of the greatest welshers
and scoundrels it was ever anyone’s lot to fall
across. For years the public have been gulled by
the same birds of passage, and it behoves the
A.J.C. to appoint an officer to protect the “good
and true” who pay their “tenner,” and not allow
others to bet who creep in surreptitiously, as some
did at the Hawkesbury, and reap the benefit of
what others have paid.
Since my last, the ever obliging secretary of the
Ballarat T.C., Mr. W. Buhlert, has gone over to the
great and silent majority, after a very short Illness,
of inflammation of the lungs. Such a gap in the
ranks didn’t prevent the club from running off
their meeting on the advertised date, the Friday
and Saturday following.
Mr. Theodore Sampson was the purchaser of
Recovery.
Tothill, the well-known trainer, was reprimanded
as also the rider, for the suspicious running of
Lord Wilton at the late meeting of the Adelaide
R.C. Tothill has always borne an excellent
character, and, if he was innocent, as lots of peo-
ple aver, then it comes very hard. Stewards of
many racing clubs often allow glaring offences to
pass unchallenged, and I have frequently witnessed
at country meetings palpable “pulls” go un-
noticed.
The English correspondent of the Australasian
says that Mr. W. A. Long, so well known in Aus-
tralia, intends to sell his stud in England, and
return to Australia at the end of the season. No
reason is given; but it may be, as is generally the
case with Australians, that Mr. Long can’t cotton
to the old country for any great length of time,
and would rather be in the genial climate of Aus-
tralia than in cold frost-biting England. It cannot
be that want of success is the cause of the pro-
jected return of Grand Flaneur’s owner, for he
has been racing a very little time, and to sweep
the English turf without a fair and perhaps pro-
tracted trial is rather more than any reasonable
person may expect.
The well-bred and equally good-looking colt,
Liberty who belongs to Mr. Dan. Mayne, has been
placed in charge of Mr. Albert Cornwell, who will
have the care of him until after the next A.J.C.
Derby, and there’s no doubt that the trainer of
many winners, ncluding Cap-a-pie and the cast off
of St. Alban’s stables, Burwood, will do Daniel’s
colt every justice.
The disqualification of the jockey, John Lawler,
by the Rockhampton J.C., has been endorsed by;
the A.J.C., so owners had better steer clear of
Lawler. The A.J.C. also removed the disqualifica-
tion of the horse Janitor, for running at an un-
registered meeting.
I am sorry to hear that Mr. John Berry, a popular
racehorse owner, has sustained a great loss by fire;
his residence, the Royal Hotel at Tomingley, just
outside Dubbo, having been burned to the ground
on Saturday morning, and his loss is estimated at
£1500.
Gladiator, by Kelpie from Corisande, has, I learn,
been sold to Mr. Joe Abrahams for £300.
At the Dubbo race meeting, on Saturday last,
the Trial Stakes was won by Kangaroobie ; the
Macquarie Handicap by Figaro, Fifer second, and
Wheel of Fortune third; and the Ladies’Mile fell
to Casket.
Through Mr. W. J. Wagner’s contemplated visit
to the old country, the horses running in the
names of Messrs. Wagner and Robertson are to be
disposed of on the 8th October; they include Wel-
come Jack, St. Lawrence, Prince Regent, Ontario,
and Great Western.
The largest winner in N.Z. during last season was
Mr. J. Pilbrow, who pocketed, with Welcome Jack
and Clarence, the respectable total of £3416.
By way of a beginning, and to catch the intend-
ing Melbourne representatives ot our stables before
they leave, I paid Randwick a visit on Saturday
morning, and saw Tom Brown commence opera-
tions, shortly after half-past five, with his three
youngsters, Garfield, Lord Exeter, and Parapluie:
and they spurted over half a mile at the end of
once round, Lord Exeter coming home in front;
but the gallop was only at three-quarter pace.
Lord Exeter is no doubt a speedy colt, but I like
his companion Garfield much better; and as he is
well grown, big enough to carry a house, and fast
with it, he ought to run very forward in the two-
year-old races of the season, though of course it’s
rather too early to form a decided opinion. Pell
Mell, and that unkind and unreliable brute Cunna-
mulla, worked together over two miles and a half,
and the former shaped in something like his old
form again. King’s Own and Havanna did steady
work; and as the former has been well wound up,
my readers and his backers may not expect to hear
of him being treated to many fast and sensational
gallops. Mr. de Mestre’s youngsters did nothing
of any note, neither did Navigator, Ike, Aide-de-
Camp, nor Copra. The crack doesn’t appear to have
grown, but he moves along in his wonted style,
while Aide-de-Camp shows improvement on the
score of condition, and should be terribly hard to
beat in the Melbourne Cup. Ike, too, who wasn’t
half fit at Hawkesbury, is coming on well, and the
same may be said of Nicholas. The handsome Sir
Modred did long strong work, as did also Le Grand,
and then Stockdale with his brother Albury did
two and a half miles together. The last half of
their gallop was at a good stiff pace, and they were
both ridden out from the distance, Albury holding
his own, and, perhaps, a little more, with the lazy
but constant Stockdale. Albury’s gallop impressed
me very much, and, as he is just about halt fit, I
feel sorry that his owner, Mr. Lamond, has not
quite time between now and our Melbourne Cup
to thoroughly wind him up, otherwise he would
be “a hard ’un to beat.” He has been backed to
to win about £30,000, and I expect to see
him run forward. Hypatia ran once round by
herself, and so did Sosinante. The two-year-olds
representing the Zetland Lodge stable were out,
and of the three (Buckingham, Lady Temple, and
Alicia) the first impresses one favourably, and
should he train well on, will be heard of to advan-
tage. He is a half brother of Chester, by the
imported Chandos. Bristol and the compact First
Demon did two miles together, and the more seen
of the former the greater is the liking for him, and
I think he is well worthy to be remembered. The
much improved Manfred, by Kelpie, from Young
Emily, did a strong mile and a half by herself, and
moved along in a very taking style. Macaroni,
who looks as well as ever, Kelso, and Silver Arrow
did long strong work together, the last named
running over his companions at the finish. I fancy
Kelso has turned rogueish, as he wanted to stop at
the distance, and ran home in an ill-tempered
manner in and out the hurdles. Crowned Head
ran over a stiff five furlongs; and Jack of Clubs,
who has only recently been put to work, did along
strong canter by himself. Wallangra had a mile and
a quarter alone, fast; and then the game little Sar-
donyx, with Norman for a companion, was treated
to two miles at a good working pace. Both look
and go well. Balmoral, who moved gingerly at
first, did long strong work when the soreness dis-
appeared; and then came Sweet William and Band-
master (not in company), but they did nothing of
note. Despot and Martini-Henry showed out next
from the scraping sheds, and put in a couple of
rounds, and the former goes as well as his most
ardent admirer could wish; and, should all go well
with him, I think he will finish in front of the New
South Wales division in the Melbourne Cup. The
youngsters in the Hon. James White’s stable did
nothing of any note, and unimportant work was
got through by a host of others.
Monday being an “ off ” morning, there was not
any great amount of work done at Randwick,
and several strings were absent, notably Mr.
De Mestre’s, which worked after breakfast. Ope-
rations commenced at an early hour in the
morning, but fast gallops were not expected. Of
Brown’s lot Stockdale and Garfield were the only
two to move along, the former showing signs of
ill temper: but the two-year-old ran over five
furlongs, in a very taking manner, by himself.
Le Grand, I fancy, after his gallop, appeared a
trifle lame, but it wore off quickly, and perhaps
may have been imagination. Sardonyx had a mile
and a half all to himself, and always makes friends.
Kingsdale worked alone slowly, and his biggest
friend would hardly know him, having wasted
away so; and I think Lamond will find it necessary
to treat him to a spell. Macaroni was treated to a
good twice round, and got over the last mile so
well that he ought to be hard to beat at the Goul-
burn meeting. It would be useless to particu-
larise the other work got through, as none of it
was of an interesting nature.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
It is stated a horse recently cleared a jump
6 feet 8 inches high, at Murrumburrah. The yarn
is about on a par with the leap for tallness.
O’Leary intends to return to America in
time to meet Edwards, as he is not yet satisfied he
has been “beaten on his merits.” Humph!
At Bourke, Campbell beat Turner in their
150 yards’ race for £25 aside; and G. Montgomery
failed by 20 seconds to run two miles under 11
minutes. A strong westerly wind was blowing.
Speak gently—especially to the big man
with a round head, and a square neck, and two
big fists like ancient stone-hammers. Speak gently
to him. You may touch some long hidden choi-d
of sympathy in his hardened breast that may cause
him to pass you by uncrushed. But the little
white-faced man on crutches—oh, you may cheek
him all the way round the block.
If our dear old friend O’Leary doesn’t take
a libel action against the Melbourne Sportsman,
and claim eight millions damages, in respect to the
letter signed “R. J. Long, Bristol Hotel, Port
Adelaide, S.A.,” which appeared in the last issue of
that journal, all we can say is that the sooner he
clears out of Australia and rejoins his own set in
America the better. Go along, Mr. O’Leary.
Another remarkable performance on a
tricycle took place recently, when Mr. Bird, of the
Speedwell B.C. (Birmingham), rode 22H miles in 24
hours. This is now the longest authenticated dis-
tance that has ever been covered by a cyclist on
the road during the full day, and beats the record
made by Mr. Marriott, of Nottingham, by nearly
three miles ; but the route covered in by Mr.
Bird’s ride was far more conducive to speedy tra-
velling than that selected by the London Tx-icycle
Club.
“Robin Hood,” the London correspondent
of the Australasian, is responsible for this:—
“ I hear that Mr. W. A. Long means to sell otf his
stud and return to Australia at the end of the
season. He will take with him some brood mares,
I believe, but will sell the majority of his horses
in training. He has not had very good luck here,
but then he has not run many horses, nor can
much success be expected in so brief a time.” This
hardly tallies with the cable received on the 20th,
stating that Mr. Long made some large purchases
at the sale of the Middle Park stud.
Wood, on Hornpipe, stole a march on
Archer, who rode Geheimniss in the Stewards’ Cup
at the Goodwood meeting. Archer eased the mare
in the straight, thinking he had his field beaten.
This was noticed by Wood, who had not seemed to
be in the final struggle at all, and riding with great
determination, he crept up between Geheimniss
and the rails, and fairly stole the race by a shox-t
head. Archer was wild about the mistake, which
he freely confessed, as on returning to scale he
met Sir F. Johnston, who with Lord Alington, is
part owner of the mare, and said: “I threw the
race away, Sir Frederick.”
Last NT. Z. racing season’s statistics: —
Auckland, 54 meetings, with £11,581 of added
money; Canterbury, 39 meetings, with £10,710 ;
Otago, 56 meetings, £10,130; Wellington, 31 meet-
ings, £9358 : total for the colony, 231 meetings,
£54,121 added money. Px-incipal winners, with
winnings for season—J. Pilbrow, £3416; Walters
and Pollock, £2588; Mason and Vallance, £2460;
Robinson and Lance, £1705; G. Bate, £1561; D.
O’Brien, £1506; P. Max-tin, £1320; G. Proudfoot,
£1076; S. Horsfall, £1056; Hon. G. M’Lean, £1032.
Four horses won over £1000 in stakes—Welcome
Jack, £2521; Tasman, £1500; Sir Modred, £1076;
King Quail, £1056. Of the winning sires Traducer
heads the list with over £9000; Yattendon comes
next, witlx £2416. Tradueer’s stock during the last
seven years have won £62,500.


Welm ‘Hough on Corns.’’— Ask for Wells’
Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure Corns, warts, bunions. Moses
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
It would seem as if W, G. Brett had raised
a scare amongst the S.R.C. scullers, Judging from
their bad form in refusing to start against him in
the recent regattas, without giving any reason for
the objection. It cannot be on account of bis being
a retail whisky merchant, as even the high-toned
senior club can boast amongst its prominent
members a tobacconist and a tailor’s cutter, who
surely are as much “manual labour” men as a
publican, and the only reason a lot of people are
able to arrive a f is that Brett has a shade too mui H
speed for them in a wager boat. Gaden is the or y
amateur in the harbour capable of extending
Brett. As to Middleton’s win of the last Krug racr
it was without doubt owing to Gaden and Breit
nulling tl emselves clean out during the first mile
m their endeavours to cut each other down 1 r
*^,f h . ey w,th an >’thing like judgment
Middleton would most assuredly have been a bad
third. We can well understand Thomson’s with-
drawal at Snail s Bay. Few men care to be made
an exhibition of singly before a large concourse of
people. J he S.R.C. must now in all fairness bi n g
the (matter of tLoir objection under the notice of
tho K-owing Association, otherwise it looks very
much like persecution to taboo a man without
giving him a chance to defend himself.
In Savannah (U.S.) a disgraceful scene
took place during divine service on the last Sun-
day in August. One John Moore had a stump-
tailed dog, slightly wall-eyed, and with‘an indif-
ferent temper. Seeing a poor Italian approaching
with a monkey, Moore made some insulting re-
marks on the man’s nationality and companion.
He then offered to bet five dollars that his dog
would gobble the monkey up before the organ in
the church hard by had commenced the first bar
of the hymn for which the sopranos and tenors
were each then giving some preparatory coughs.
The foreigner agreed, and, while they were looking
for a stakeholder, the monkey, having eyed the
dog all over, decided on a rear attack, and lost no
time in making the initial movement. He jumped
from his master’s arms, took the adversary’s tail in
his mouth, and, chewing it like a schoolboy a piece
of sugar-stick, ho emitted a succession of screams
taught him years before in his distant African
home. The dog took the hint, and was absent
three days. This was bad enough, but, when the
Italian man observed : “ Yourdognot well to-day;
maybe your dog gone off to hunt rabeet. Your
dog no like my monkey—he not acquaint. Maybe
ven I come again next year he come back and
fight some more,” Moore remembered that there
was a twelve o’clock dinner at his house on Sun-
days, and gloomily withdrew.
We were under the impression that there
was at least one American sculler wlo rowed
“straight;” but if there be any truth in the account
published in the Globe Democrat of an interview
between one of its reporters and one of Hanlan’s
chief backers, it would seem that the scullers are
all tarred with the same brush. In their interview,
Hanlan’s backer is credited with saying that in
1878 Hanlan and Courtney came to a conclusion by
which they should row three races ; that Hanlan
was to win the first, Courtney the second, and they
to settle after the first two were rowed as to whicn
would get the third. The first race took place at
Lachine October 3,1878,, and was for the citizens’
prize of 6000 dollars. As per previous agreement,
Hanlan won this race, but Courtney, according to
the statement of Hanlan’s backers, received 3500
dollars of the capital prize. The second race was to
have been rowed October 16, 1878, and was for the
Hop Bitters prize of 6000 dollars. Courtney, it is
alleged, told all his friends that he was sure of
winning. They told all theirs, and a large amount
of money was raised and placed upon him. When
Hanlan arrived at the lake he is said to have been
much alarmed at finding so much money upon the
race, and that if he lost he would swamp his friends,
and exposure would follow. He then backed out
of his previous contract, and told Courtney that
he could not give him the race. Courtney, it is
alleged, knew that he could not win, and seeing
that if he rowed he would ruin every friend that
he had left in the world took the only course he
had left out of the difficulty, and sawed his boat in
two. The interview is crammed full of facts, and
the statements are such that it will be hard to re-
fute them. Perhaps they would not be published
now but for the recent angry meeting between
Courtney and Hanlan.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Cootamundra cricketers, the present
holders of the Comins Cup, have started the
season. W. L. Murdoch, on whom the yokels look
with reverence and awe, is a member of th« club.
.. .The Murphy-Frank walking-match is off It
is probable that a team of Tasmanian cricketers
will play a round of matches in the provinces of
N.Z. during the coming cricketing season... Ac-
cording to a Brisbane contemporary, a two-
year-old sister of the A.J.C. Derby winner,
Le Grand, is now running out at Mr. Gor-
don’s station, near Oreti, in Queensland. .
The G'mlburn “ typos” have started a cricket club.
■ ■ • J. Oelkers defeated J. Murphy in 150 yards’ spin
at Townsville, for £50 a side....haycock’s leg is
broken. Come along, now Prlnaie, with your un-
known .... The Parramatta Alfred Cricket Club last
season played 16 matches: won eight, lost seven
and drew one The Melbourne Morning Tract
says of the new horse-tamer: “ His style of speech
is simple and his language was so plain and free
from technicalities that in a few minutes his horses
were made familiar with the different develop-
ments of the teeth, &c.” Surely the Tract was
widely off when it said the Professor’s horses were
made familiar I—it must have meant his asses ..
The Boulia (N.Q.) races eventuated on 1st, 2nd, and
3rd August. Oscar won the Richards Cup; Dawn
the Maiden Plate; Nondescript, ihe Steeplechase
Crazy Jane, the Publicans’ Purse, the Handicap
the Flying Handicap, and Farewell Handicap
Dawn, the Corinthian; Stockwell, the Forced; anc
Nondescript, the Hurdle Race During the pasn
season in New Zealand, Welcome Jack headed the
list of winners with £2521, Tasman next with £1506
Sir Modred £1076, and King Quail £1056....At
Mundarlo, “ Harry the Fisherman ” caught a cod-
fish that weighed 95}^lb.... W. Wilson killed all his
birds and won the West Maitland pigeon match
C. Baldwin runner-up.. . Messrs. Finney, Isles, anc
Co. have offered a silver cup, valued at £40, to be
rowed for at the Brisbane regatta The latest
kind of horseshoe is made of compressed cowhide.
.... The four Norman-Percheron stallions, recently
imported to Melbourne by Mr. W. Learmontb,
were sold on 18th instant. The grey Figaro brought
260gs.; the roan Mustapha, 180gs.; the dark bay
Bayard, 240gs.; and the black L’Africaine 170gs....
Leos, having gone lame, has been scratched for
the New Zealand and Canterbury Cups The
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.O. have fixed upon March 6th
and 7th for their big meeting. The added money
to be given away amounts to £1440, the principal
race being the Cup of 500 sovs., miles Bun-
doora, by The Peer, has been scratched for the
N.Z. Cup....There are good reports in Auckland
(N.Z.) about a two-year-old sister to Martini-
Henry. “ Hippona,” a local writer, says she is
one of the most symmetrical and compact young-
sters he has yet seen.
* * *
At the Lucknow (India) meeting, Glad
Tidings, who won the V.A.T.C. Bracelet last year,
ran second to an Australian mare named Well-
wood in a half-mile race, and afterwards won a
handicap —The Royal Southampton Yacht Club
(England) recently had the audacity to hold a
forty-ton race on the same day as the Osborne Bay
Regatta, which is held under the special patronage
and for the gratification of the Queen andH.R.H.
the Prince of Wales. The Southampton people are
notorious for showing indifference to the wishes of
royalty... .In the steeplechase at the Widnes (Eng-
land) Sports, that accomplished sprinter Snook
had rather a rough time of it. To begin with he
cast a shoe, and later on, when he got up to ihe
leader, C. Bryan, of Liverpool, that Individual, not
satisfied with trying to baulk the Champion at a
.lump, struck him deliberately in the face twice.
Ihe public hooted Bryan vigorously. The matter
was brought under the notice of the Northern
Counties Athletic Association, and Bryan was dis-
qualified from racing at meetings unil next year ..
At the Barnes and Mortlake Regatta (Eng.), the
London R.C. won the chief events in the eights,
tours, and sculls. The fours were very amusing,
from the way Thames, with Hastie steersman,
hunted London about, with the hope of fouling
them, London being out of their water. London
were, however, too speedy Both Edward Han-
lan and his brother John have had their licenses
refused by the Toronto magistrates, for which
they have to thank the Blue Ribbon Army, which
must be very powerful in Toronto to cause the
cancellation of the license of such a popular man
sis the champion Peate, the English bowler, had
a run of ill success during the greater part of last
season; but in the match Yorkshire (his county)
and Surrey he showed some of his old form. He
bowled sixteen overs for five runs only, and
took eight wickets. Peate’s bowling is ac-
knowledged to be the most scientific
in England, not even excepting A. G. Steel s
At the Grand Western Archery meeting, Eng.,
Major Fisher made a gross aggregate score of 962,
m a double York round. A York round consists of
seventy-two arrows at one hundred yards, forty-
eight at eighty yards, and twenty-four at sixty
yards. The value of the Major’s score may be
estimated from the fact that the second best was
875, and the next 796 The yearling stables at the
Duke de Castries’ stud farm were struck by light-
ning early in July. The yearlings are housed two
in each box, in a long shed provided with an iron
manger, which runs from end to end of the build-
ing. The storm was at its height when the stud
groom began feeding the yearlings. As he was
pouring the oats into the manger, he was knocked
down and fell under a colt. When he got up and
recovered from the shock, he looked round him,
And found that the yearling which had been eating
while he was putting the corn into the manger had
been struck dead by lightning. Unfortunately,
the same accident had occurred in each of the six
boxes, but, luckily for the Duke, only one colt ha I
been able to get to his manger at once, or the whole
u°5 e ?- woul(i have been killed. The yearling who
had his nose in the manger when the building was
struck was killed, while the others escaped
Brave, three years, an untried brother of the cele-
brated Barcaldine, was sold at Newmarket for
2500gai. . ..Up to 1st August, the Samcena heads the
list of English winning yachts, with nine wins,
amounting to £620, The May next with eleven wins
A tb® Marjorie third with ten wins for
±490... A peculiar match was played at Horsmon-
den (Eng.), on the 20th of June. The contending
teams consisted of 11 Le Mays, of London, and 11
Lamberts, of Horsmonden, and the constitution of
the former side, which comprised the whole of the
family of the well-known hop-factors, was the
more singular in that nine of the 11 were brothers.
The Lamberts bad an easy victory by an in-
rungs and sixteen runs, scoring 130 against
the 85 and 29 of their opponents... . In the
lawn-tennis match between W. and E. Ken-
shaw, representing England, and C. M. and J. S.
Clarke, representing America, at Wimbledon, the
Br tishers won every set, the first by 6 games to 3,
the second by 6 games to 2, and the third by 6
games to 3... Speaking of a wrestling match
between Donald Dinnie and C. Whistler, at Kansas
City, Mo., a local paper says “ In the tenth round
Whistler s shoulder was dislocated, and in the
thirteenth his right leg thrown out at the knee. It
was then agreed to call the affair a draw.” The
referee who gave the decision would run someone
m Sydney very close—It is stated that Tom
shyers, the crack American jockey who steered
Uildea and many of the cracks to victory, is a son
of the late Champion of England. In that case,
then, the late pugilist has two sons named Tom.
We had a Tom Sayers” recently in Sydney...
Tristan, who is looked upon as one of the best
horses in England, again showed temper at the
Newmaiket July meeting, neither Fordham nor
Webb being able to make him gallop. He was
beaten for the Cup and the Bunbury Stakes. He is
now to be put to the stud, and he will be worth
watching to see if his bad temper will run in the
family.
Sires of the Season.
According to last week’s promise, I commence
to tell a tale of the ancestry and antecedents of
sires of the season, for, although the beginning
may bn late in the day, still there are among the
available horses some celebrities that are always
worth reading about.
The Mulgrave Lodge lot standing at the head of
list shall go first, and of them Perfection is a new
comer among us, as yet but little seen, except at
the late Sydney show. He is a coaching horse,
probably, as good of his kind as ever was
brought here, and he undoubtedly is much supe-
rior to most I have ever seen. Such sires as this, I
think, are to be especially made useful among the
hordes of weedy blood mares or other high lineage
dams that have failed to throw winners, and, with
his line colour, carriage, bone, and many other
good points, it won’t be hard to suit Perfection.
His companion, Testator, is a half brother to
Kmgsdale ; and the little Exmoor pony, Uncle
Tom, is a son of Mr. Wood house’s little wonder
imported Sir Thomas.
At Tocal there are the old candidates, The
Drummer and Goldsbrough, the former’s list
being long since full, and the latter’s nearly so:
and to these has been added for the season Mr. G.
S. Yeo’s imported horse Struck Gold, who as yet
has had only a poor chance to distinguish himself:
but from his good looks and exceptionally fine
pedigree ought to shine as a sire. I always con-
tended for The Drummer as being the best sire Mr.
Charles Baldwin ever imported, and his present
popularity bears out my opinion as fully as I could
wish. As for Goldsbrough, I need say little about
him, for his stock have been pushing him ahead for
some seasons past, and already he has the two best
two-year-olds of this season to his credit. I take it
that theoretical horse-breeding is productive of
more vexation of spirit than sound satisfaction,
my experience going to prove that there’s only
one sure guide to arriving at winners, which is to
follow winning families, in which racing excellence
has been handed down regularly for generations
from father to son; and I know of no line of sires
that can be traced back with more satisfaction
by one seeking racehorses than the one commenc-
ing with Goldsbrough and running back thus:—
Fireworks, Kelpie, Weatherbit, Sheet Anchor,
Lottery, and Tramp. I don’t think the Stud-book
holds anything better than this.
Mr. Andrew Town has a long string of excellent
sires located at Richmond, there being no fewer
than eight thorough-breds, headed by the grand
old Maribyrnong, and the sensational, uncon-
quered, Grand Flaneur, the former of this pair
having a full list, as is usual with him at the
season’s commencement. It’s only an “old, old
story,” attempting to tell of Maribyrnong’s great-
ness as a sire; and as for The Flaneur, he has not
yet been represented when the starter di’opped his
Hag, though I expect, when the time comes, he
will have a good-looking lot to his credit. Next on
the list is Rapid Bay, who during his early sea-
sons in the harem, made a good name by his stock,
and was about the only horse we’ve had in New
South Wales that ran and won at the same meet-
ing as some of his progeny. The great size
and strength of Rapid Bay must make him
especially valuable as a sire, and his wonderful
pace, as well as powers of humping weight, will
surely be handed down to his stock. Moor-
thorpe has yet to make his name here as a
begetter of winners, in which character he will
probably succeed. He possesses the great de-
siderata of a good winning pedigree, coupled with
good looks, and when he arrived from England 1
thought him a very satisfactory addition to our
stud stock. One of the grandest bred horses is
Julian Avenal, that is if there be any reliance
to be placed in what are generally received as the
most certain combinations for producing winners
and for my own part, I have no doubt that the
longer this horse lives the better he will be thought
of by stud-owners who breed to race. Among us
of New South Wales, when two or three horses are
fashionable, it’s not easy for a struggler to make a
name. The prestige of Chester and Flaneur
ought to secure a fair trial for their own brothers,
Monmouth and Beauclerc; and from what
I saw of Childe Harold at the show, 1 have no
doubt he will secure a good share of mares suit-
able for mating with the “American Trotter,” of
which he is a right good specimen.
The Richmond Clydesdales call for little remark,
for the names of Muir Lad and Davie are known
far and wide throughout Australia; and Gallant
Scotchman, who has lately joined these two old
and well-tried favourites, is well worthy of the
distinauished position. The names I have men-
tioned as belonging to Mr. Town’s stud show that
the occupants of the Richmond boxes furnish a
very satisfactory show of themselves. I will pro-
ceed with the series next week.
PEGASUS.
Northern J.C. Kaces.
[BY PEGASUS.]
The many “ Old Sports ” of the real good school,
who remember what Maitland races were twenty
or twenty-five years ago, will be as sorry to hear
as I am to write that the meeting held last week
did not compare favourably with its predecessors
of years gone by in more than one particular essen-
tial to good sport. For, first and foremost, there
was a sad and suggestive falling off in the attend-
ance, both for numbers and quality; and, then, the
calibre of the nags wasn’t such as to impress
favourably those regular attendants who have
lively recollections of Ben Bolt, Veno, Gratis,
Talleyrand, Lauristina, Sportsman, Sampson, Coo-
ramin, and other such whilome celebrities ! I
don’t know how or why it happens, but, with or
without reason, the Maitland races have changed
wonderfully for the worse, so far as attracting
people and horses; and even the most uncompro-
mising apostles of the present regime must take this
view. It seems hard to realize the disappearance of
so many old names and faces; and yet those who
never missed the Maitland tryst a quarter century
ago, those who took their places a decade later,
and others still who Ailed the hotels since that
time, whenever the Isthmian games were on, are
certainly not now in their places as of yore The
Baldwins, Dineses, Loders, Cobcrofts, Singles,
Doyles, Dui-hams, Bowmans, Alfords, with hosts of
others, well represente the Hunter district in
those olden times; and the sportsmen of the
metropolis, and the Hawkesbury, took their horses
to Maitland, as well as Newcastle and “ The Brook,”
besides lacking their fancy pluckily when the silks
were donned. Now, the names I’ve mentioned
above might have been roared from the housetop
without response, and as for Sydney sportsmen
going to bacK their horses, Mr. Tom Stewart was
the only horse-owner who took a Randwick trained
h-rso and he only had Albert Victor to carry his
colours.
W non I went down the street, from Matt. Scott's
to the accredited sporting centre of host Cohen, so
long known as “ Fullford's,” I couldn’t help c >n-
trasting the collection of people under the
verandah with what I’d seen in the same spot only
three or four years ago, and certain I v the com
parison was against the present e-y much
It was clear enough that the country dis-
tricts were not represented as they used to
be, and the entire lot of visitors from Sydney
were “ Professors.” There wasn’t a taker of odds
to be seen, where they used to be in scores ; and
things looked a long way below lively for the
“ booKs.” The meagre show of people was quite
enough to give me the miserables ; and, having
come across Mr. Superintendent Morlssett, 1 was
quite relieved to get out of the streets and walk
down to the course, though there wanted three-
quarters of an hour before the opening event
when w;e arrived on the convincing ground. Be-
fore going into particulars of the running, I may
tell that, in all the years I’ve been going to races
here, 1 never saw the course looking more beauti-
ful ; and it was satisfactory to know that, while
the inside of the ground would rival an English
cloyer-and-ryegrass meadow, the running track,
which had been well attended to, was in excellent
order. During the time that elapsed before the
racing began, I lookedi in vain for a large arrival
of country folk, of whom the attendance con-
tinued meagre right through the day ; and I
sorrowed over empty benches on t e grand-
stand, where heretofore I’ve been accustomed
to see many ladies enjoying the sport they so
greatly enhance by their presence. Mrs. Bales, as is
her wont, had a few friends in the ladies’ end; but
beyond her party there were no occupants, except
some three or four. Of course the Squire of
DuckenAeld dispensed luncheon right hospitably,
at his carriage, where he and Mrs. Eales made
several guests right welcome on both days. The
brothers Reynolds, from Tocal and Duninald,
were there; so also Mr. D. F. Mackay, of Dul-
calmah, who, despite his ill health of the last four-
teen years or more, will not stay away from his
favourite sport, but still enjoys the racing with a
right good will.
The officials, who must have taken great trouble
and pains to make the “ going” on the course so
remarkably good, were at their posts, like busy
bees. Mr. J. Clift, jun., was judge. Mr. C. Brack-
enreg wielded the Aag; and although he is known
as one of the best starters in the colony, he cer-
tainly excelled all previous efforts on Wednesday.
Mr. W. C. Quinton Ailed the double role of secre-
tary and handicapper, his handiwork on the Arst
day bringing excellent results. Mr. F. G. Fullford
was clerk of the course, and Mr. J. Hart time-
keeper; which items of information bring me to a
short history of the races.
The Arst event was the Hurdle Race, which
brought Ave to the post, Ethel being the favourite,
at the small odds of 2 to I against her. Satellite
and the favourite made most of the running, with
War Eagle handy, and Mr. Monk patiently watch-
ing the others from the rear. Satellite led into
the straight, where Chesterton was beginning to
catch his Aeld; and Ethel and Satellite having got
into trouble through not jumping the last hurdle,
Chesterton came away, and won easily from War
Eagle. The j a mping was very good.
The Flying Handicap brought nine animals to
the post, Brin being a great pot. principally
through being handled by Donald Nicholson; but
when Marmlon had made a lot of running, with
Una next him, to the home turn, Epicure came
out, and had it all his own way; but young Lynch
was nearly caught on the post by Blazes, who came
with a big rush, and the big horse, through having
been nearly stopped, barely got home in time. The
winner is a good-looking, though rather leggy,
bay gelding, bred in Queensland by the late Judge
Lutwyche, and got by imported Epigram, from the
Yattendon mare Flirtation. I reckon him up as ;
pretty good one. Blazes is by Meteor, and Tor-
nado by Kelpie, from Zephyr.
Six faced the Aag for the Northern J. C. Handi-
cap, Gladiator and Faust being the prime favour-
ites, while the winner was hardly mentioned.
Satellite made strong running, as I suppose to
serve his stable companlbn, Lochinvar being out
of it from the jump; and at the tarn into the
straight Budeiight came out, and won by many
lengths in a common canter. A most unseemly
row occurred in the weighing-room, during which
the officials hardly came up to the standard ol
excellence one should expect from such a high-
class club; and they will do well to remember on
future occasions that they have no right to put a
jockey in the scale again after once declaring him
weight. They should, moreover, be particular to
exclude during such enquiries all persons whose
interest one way or other might make them not
over careful what they did to score a win. There's
no doubt there were gross attempts made to weigh
up the jockey of Gladiator, who was short, and to
deprive Budeiight of a race ne had fairly won—his
only fault being that he carried nearly two pounds
over weight without declaring it. Eventually the
race was awarded to Budeiight, by Swan’s Warrior,
and the well-known Maid of Australia. Gladiator
was disqualiAed for being short weight, and Albert
Victor, who is by Kelpie from sweetllps, thus
became second. The Hon. John Ealus’s Rosebud
won the Selling Stakes easily, and, having been
entered to be sold for £10, fetched 62 guineas from
Mr. Tom Stewart, realising £52 to the funds. She
is by New Holland from the Rose. Reform, a
chesnut gelding by Barbarian, was second, and
Pot-8-os, another old one, third.
By far the best race of the meeting was that for
the Epsom Handicap, the Arst four being- in such
a ruck that the judge could not place a third. Zulu
led for half the journey, when Milota went in
front, followed by Hesitation. Coming round the
last turn, Mileta, Hesitation, and Zulu came out,
and a grand race ensued, the mare winning by a
short liead from Hesitation, and no distinction
being made for third place between Zulu and
Epicure. Mileta is by Goldsbrough from Peeress;
Hesitation own brother to Apology; and Zulu by
Barbarian from Maiden’s Blush. This closed Wed-
nesday’s sport.
Great storms on Wednesday night and Tuursday
made a great change in the “going,” before the
second day’s racing commenced ; and the time of
starting was postponed one hour, to give the course
time to dry. Truthfully, I must say the racing
wasn’t nearly as "good as on the opening day, and
there were some unaccountable curios in the
handicapping ; but as the state of the ground per-
haps had some effect, I need not say much more.
For the Maitland Mile, which opened the nail, there
was a Aeld of ten, two or three being backed at as
little as 3 to 1. Marmion led to the tar side, when
Souvenir came out, and from thence won all the
way with the greatest ease. She is by Goldsbrough
from Lady Hilda (imported), who died early last
season ; and the Ally will be remembered as being
the one on which Mr. John Stewart, V.8., of
Sydney, successfully operated for an enlarged
navel, when she was being Arst trained by Cook, at
the Hawkesbury.
No one could fathom the handicapping for the
Bracelet, but it was clear the 13st.21b. on Budeiight
was"’t justiAed by performance ; and I’m sure he
couldn’t have won with list. up. Chesterton, too,
was sadly over weighted, having an iucroaseof 5st.
for the only Hat race he ever won. It was the
funniest race I ever saw, for a handicap ; War
Eagle and Satellite ran clean awav from their
Aeld, the former winning easily, and there were
1 fifty lengths between second and third.the others
following at about the same Intervals. The winner
• is by Sir Arthur, which is all I know about him,
i Satellite by the Barb from Lurline, and Ethel by
the Earl.
1 The Duckenfleld Park Stakes gave rise to some
conversation, decidedly uncomplimentary to the
Epicure party, who, I suppose, cared little or no-
thing, as they were able to back their horse at 6 to 1,
if they wished. Of a verity his running on t e
previous evening in the Epsom was such as to give
colour to the picture, and was in violent
contrast to his wins in the Flying and Ducken-
fleld. For this latter Matilda led at first, but at
the far side Epicure began to play with them, and
won in a canter by a couple of lengths. I have
already given Epicure’s pedigree. Gladiator is by
Kelpie from Horisande, and Zulu’s will be found
above. They were a very hackneyfled lot for the
Novel Race, which needs little description further
than that Pot-8-os won easily; and the Forced Han-
icap gave a great race between Zulu and Bude-
light, at 8st. 51b. each, the former just winning. I
have nothing further to add, except that the start-
ing was not nearly as good as on Wednesday, and
the attendance was considerably better. Follow-
will be found placed hoises, and starters, with the
time of each race:—
First Day—Wednesday.
Handicap Hurdle Race, of 50sovs.; 2 miles.
Mr. T. Carlisle’s b g Chesterton, late Chester,
aged. lOst 4ft, and over (Mr. Monk) ... 1
John Mayo’s b g War Eagle, aged, list 11 lb
(Roarty) 2
J. M’Crowe’s b c Vidette, 5 years, 9st
(M’Crowe) 3
Dr. A. Nash’s b g Satellite, aged, lOstllft (Solly) 0
Mr. T. Hughes 1 ch m Ethel, aged, 9st 3ft
(Chifney). .. 0
Plying Handicap, of 2 sovs. each, 40 sov. added
7 furlongs.
Mr. G. Allen’s b g Epicure, 5 years, 6st 101b (R.
Lynch 1
C. C. Chillcott's b g Blazes, aged, 7st 51b
(Handley) 2
E. Chippendale’s ch c Tornado, 3 years, 6st
8ft (D. Roarty) 3
Claudius, 7st Oft; Brin, 7st Oft: Marmion, 7st 7ft;
Una, 6st 12ft; Mileta, 6st 10ft; Uralla, 6st 6ft, also
started. Time, Imln 31 Isec.
N.J.C, Handicap, of 5 sovs. each, 150 sovs. added,
li mile.
Mr. C. Hunt’s b h Budelight, 5 years, 7st (Lind-
say) 1
H. Herberton’s ch h Albert Victor, 4 years,
7st 41b (Handley) 2
Lochlnvar, 8st 5ft; Gladiator, 7st4ft (dis.); Faust,
7st 4ft; Maid of the Hills, 6st 10ft, also started.
Time, 3min 3Msec.
Prince of Wales Stakes, of 40 sovs ; 6 furlongs.
Hon. J. Bales’ br f Rosebud, 3 years, 5st 61b,
(English) 1
Mr. J. C. Laycock’s ch g Reform, aged, 7st 41b
(Goddard) 2
W. Tyler’s b g Pot-8-os, 5 years, 6st 61b (D.
Roarty 3
Three others started. Time, Imin 21sec.
Epsom Handicap, of 2 sovs each, 40 sovs added ;
1 mile 1 furlong.
Mr. J. Malony’s ch m Mileta, 4 years, 6st 31b
(English) 1
R. Chapman’s Lr g Hesitation, aged, 7st 41b
(Nerriker) 2
Zulu, 8st 21b; ; Sancho Panza, 6st lllb; Brides-
maid. 6st 81b; Myra,6st 61b; Epicure, 6st 61b; Levi,
6st 3lb. Even on Epicure. Time, 2 min.
Second Day.—Friday.
Maitland Handicap, 40 sovs ; 1 mile.
Mr. F. Reynold’s br f Souvenir, 3 years, 6st (Nic-
holson) i
0. C. Chillcott’s b g Blazes, aged, 7st 81b
(Handley) 2
J. C. Laycock’s ns ch g Reform, aged, 6st 81b
(Goddard) 3
Dagmar, 8st 11b; Marmion, 7st 3Ub; Tornado,
6st 41b; Claudius, 7st; Levi. 6st; Whisper Low, 6st;
Woodstock, 6st. Time, Imin 59seo;
Ladies’ Bracelet, 55 sovs: 1 mile 1 furlong.
Mrs. John Mayo’s b g War Eagle, aged, list 7ft
(Mr. J. Mayo, jun.) j
Miss Nash’s b g iktellito, aged 10st Oft —
over (Mr. Markwell) .... 2
Miss Rogers’ ch m Ethel, aged, 10st61b(Mr. Ross) 3
Chesterton, list 7ft; Myra, list 3ft; Bridesmaid,
10st7ft; Eclipse, 9st 7ft; started.
Duckenfield Park Stakes.—4 sovs. each, 100
sovs. added: 1 mile 3 furlongs.
Mr. G. Allen’s b g Epicure, 5 years, 6st 3ft
(O’Keefe) 1
J. Moore’s ch h Gladiator, 4 years, 7st 6ft
(Davis) 3
C. M’Donnell’s blk h Zulu, aged, 7st I2ft, and
(Oliver) 3
Lochlnvar, 8st 7ft; Albert Victor, 7st 6ft; Faust,
7st 6ft; Hesitation, 7st; Sancho Panza, 6st 8ft;
Mileta, 6st. Time, 2min 39sec.
Novel Race.—30 sovs.
Pot-8-os 1
Ethel ’ 2
Darkle
Forced Handicap.—134 mile.
Zulu (8st 5ft ( 1
Budelight (8st 5ft) "3
War Eagle (6st 10ft) .'"3
Rosebud. 6st 12ft; Myra, 6st: Mileta, 7st5ft: Levi
6st; Maid cf the Hills, 7st 6ft; Erin, 7st 5ft; Pot-8-os
6st.
B LLARAT HUNT AND TURF CLUB RACES.
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 21 AND 22.
First Day .—Selling Hurdle: Hanker, I ; Moo-
rong, 2 ; Sunshine, 3. Ladies' Bracelet : Hurri-
cane, 7st 71b, 1 ; Brenda. 7st 121b, 2; Mv Lord, 6st,
3. Hunt Club Cup: Goldtlnder, list 101b, 1; Baro-
net, list 101b, 2. Ten started; all but the two
placed fell. Hurdles : Uingwood, 9st 31b, 1 •
Avalanche, 10st 5lb, 2 ; Lady Hampden, list
51b. ?• Novel Selling Race : Hannibal, Hwt
101b, 1; Drone, 10st 4fb, 2 ; Little King, 10st
71b, 3. Second Day.—Amateur Hurdle Kace :
Moorong, 1; Bendigo, 2 ; Quicksilver, 3. Bal-
larat Handicap; Irrallee, (ist 121b, 1 ; Flying
Jib, 7st 2; Westbury, 8st, 3. Eleven started.
Grand National Steeplechase: Buz/,a, 10st 101b, ]•
Lizette. lOst 31b, 2; Australian Court, lost 7ih, 3*
Ten started ; won easily. Ladies’ Bag : Irrallee
10st 101b, 1; Buttercup, 10st 121b, 2; Medallion, 12st
101b, 3. Maiden Handicap Steeple : Katunga, 10st
1; Chippenham, 10st 121b, 2; Terlo, list, 3.
Won by a neck ; Chippenham was favourite.


Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking- rooms, &c.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, portable. Various
sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Conneil-street.
B~1dSTEAD8, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The.
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and!
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Table* iSrown
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7» 6d. B®AD-
LBY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conndl and Spring
streets, Sydney.
80s.
BRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
D
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
RAWING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs*
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB*
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.,
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradiey, Newton, and Lamb,
O'Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for best
DRAWING-ROOM nr BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture
Importers, Spring and 0’Connell_streets,
Drawing-room occasional chairs.—
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
HAIir BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. __
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites - for dining-room.-stde-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all
to match. ON VIEW at SHOWROOMS, O’Connell-
street.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EQUnJlBRIUM IN-
BRADLEY, NEWTON,
SE LF- ADJUSTING
VALID CHAIRS. ~
and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment Ih Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
ot buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework tor dining-room"furni-
TURB, Handsome and Ma sive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
B
W
EDSTE ADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
A8HSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDBN~ SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Oonnell-street.
ATTAN VERANDAH LOUNGES,20s. BRAIL
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell.
street.
ENT WOOD FURNITURE—A very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new
designs.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
APANBSE 8, Ha;
■ 1) x 8,13s; 10 x 8, 15s. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB.
TEINWAY NEW YORKPlANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
riPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
I. L1PP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
ilrect from the Makers, comprising tall
1RANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
DON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
IIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
&T WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION. _ r
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring street*.
URNITURB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T I
IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
I 1 TABLES. BOOKCASfes, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, In EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and
IVTOVELTIES In Boudoir and BOW-WINDOAV
i3l SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Furniture— the largest stock in
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’CouueU-street.
SOCIAL.
A lovely day came round for the Sydney
Amateur Athletic Club sports on Saturday, and
the public went in force. But the dress was dis-
appointing. It was pretty good; some shapes and
shades were interesting; but we expected more.
Where was the great Spring Show ? It has not
been seen yet, and the season is on. One swallow
doesn’t make a Summer ; and even that lovely
lavender, those pretty fawn sisters, or the few
fairy gowns of white, couldn’t make a Spring
shoAv. Winter relics having their last airing were
what met the eye on ail sides, and filled the lawn—
which, by the way, will soon have to be enlarged
if it is to meet the times. A dress is shown under
difficulties when the owner has to shoulder it and
herself through the crowd that usually congre-
gates now on the lawn on any good occasion.
Among the warm-looking dresses wore—a good
raspberry-red cashmere, with same broche on
skirt; a mauve satin-do-lyon and brocade,
richly made, and with a train; a magni-
ficent stiff moire antique, trimmed with satin,
and chenille fringe, all of olive green, worn by a
Woollahra lady; a most handsome peacock blue
broche and chenille fringe matching, under a
parachute of very delicate pink, and similar
bonnet, worn by a very graceful married lady from
Ashfleld; and a very tine green ottoman silk, and
broche panels, under a crushed strawberry para-
chute, black Spanish lace dolman, garbing a Dar-
linghurst lady. Two gorgeous dresses were dis-
tinctive because exactly similar in style, but not
in colour. One bodice with two long tabs was of
blue and gold foulard, the skirt ot pale brown
satin pleated the entire length, and garnished with
golden pompons ; the other was of brownish
foulard, and rich brown satin skirt, pompons as
before. A tall graceful lady wore a brownish grey
cloth top with claret cording behind, and corded
breast, claret satin kilted skirt; and two daughters
of Ashfleld wore all peacock blue. A Hebrew
lady displayed a conspicuous combination—long
tunic of champagne-coloured satin edged with
large pompons, over a rich brown satin skirt
in long pleats beaded by a broad puffing.
It gleamed handsomely. A startling vision was
white pique bodice peaked ail round, over an
antediluvian skirt of skybluo silk. A pretty little
girl scintillated in a fawn nun's cloth tabbed dress,
trimmed witti satin, and beautified with bright,
pretty crewelltng. A clever pianiste contrasted
her blondeness with a pale blue llama, under large
blue hat loaded with sunflowers. Coming to lighter
toilets, there was a pink sateen with flowered
flounces, under a gable hat with pink in the
peak ; a brunette in fawn sateen with flowered
flounces, very much paniered, under a poke hat;
a Croydon lady’s pink llama, enriched with wine-
coloured lace, and shadowed with a large hat and
parachute of same tints ; and three sisters in very
light lawn nun’s veiling, with a touch of broche,
and ruche trimming. The trio were a treat. Very
pretty was a delicate lavender broche tunic and
skirt, worn by the daughter of a returning officer,
perhaps the prettiest toilet there. A navy blue
gold-braided tunic, over a pale blue embroidered
skirt, with corresponding gloves, completed a tall
girl’s outfit. The two daughters of a Burwood ex-
Civll servant tried uncommon combinations, with
uncommon success; one was a panier bodice of dark
green broche, over a skirt of oatmeal grey home-
spun in long wide kilts ; the other, a violet broche
over a puffed grey skirt, Vandyked. Lady Hay, in
a black figured satin, with ecrasse feather in her
bonnet, was accompanied by Sir John (Prosidentof
the Club), a pretty dark brown cloth and satin
garbing one or his young ladies, and a grey-green
(doth the other, a pretty little blonde. But of all
the drosses shown, during the bright r.reezy after-
noon parade the palm certainly was taken by the
whites; they were charming. One was pure white
lawn with little flounces edged with embroidery,
deep crimson sash, trimming of hat and the parasol
also white. Then a handsome lady, who was a
bridesmaid at St. Mary’s not long ago, wore a white
broche, and lace with a suspicion of creamy tint,
white kid gloves, bonnet and feathers. Two sisters,
in lawn, were also as spotless as “the beautiful
snow,” except that one had just a fleck or two of
the martyred colour, and both the piquantly
bunched dresses wore ornamented with gathered
flounces, tucked and embroidered. Another from
Kiley-street was beautified with insertion and
embroidered flounces, sash of wasp-colour stripes;
and yet another pretty girl in pure white, from
Petersham, added to it a black sash, and a black
prinoesse bonnet. The approaches to the ground
are not so bad as they used to be, but they are still
so bad as to be a disgrace.
* * *
Notwithstanding non-arrival of the ex-
pected M.sP., the Carcoar banquet took place; and
as it was graced by the presence ot well-dressed
ladies, everyone who hadn’t “an axe to grind”
was quite satisfied there was not much lost.
Among those present were Misses Biddulph, in
black ; Miss Roberts (Tas.), in navy blue silk ; Miss
Kirkpatrick, in claret cashmere and cream broche:
Mrs. Lindsay, a sweet little songstress, in brown
silk : Mrs. M’Killop, in black dress and white lace
and flowers ; and, in a stylish black satin, and
crushed strawberry lace, that spirited press woman,
Mrs. Garland, of the Carcoar Chronicle, who Is
a firm believer in woman’s rights; and one of
them is a seat at a good banquet.
♦ * *
A dress party in the Rand wick Town Hall
marked the close of Professor West’s class season
there this year, and both platform and gallery were
closely filled with spectators. All round the hall
were wreaths of garden flowers and palms put up
by Mesdames Pcmell and Unwin, and Mr. C. Pearce
sent a lot of pot-plants. Besides the adults and
adolescents, there was an array of very small
girls. Little beauties in blue, pink petites, and
dots in all colours, with streaming tresses, or
“bunches of ribbon to tie up their bonny brown
hair,” performed several dances by themselves in
a manner full of pretty childish grace, and the
waltzing of two mites of seven, alone, was a treat.
•
The Nimrod Fishing Club held its annual
picnic on the 19th, at Clontarf, and danced in the
new pavilion. At 2 o’clock, Mr. John Woods pro-
posed success to the Club over the remains of a
denuded dinner table ; presentations of prizes
followed, Mr. George Eastway obtaining first, and
Mr. W. J. Clarke second prize. Mayor in the chair.
The attendance was large, and all had a good day's
recreation.
• • •
Mr. Needs’ pupils gave him a compli-
mentary ball last week; also a costly gold Waltham
watch and albert chain, wtiich were presented
during the evening in the ballroom by Mr. Charles
Landers. Most of the guests got in before the rain
came, and they numbered about 170. Compagnoni
catered excellently, and Mrs. Bentley was good at
the piano, assisted by a cornet and violin. A
variety of handsome faces peered over the dresses,
and gyrated gaily round till twenty-seven dances
were finished; and, as all the company were ac-
quainted, and the committee attended to every-
thing, the ball was a sociable and pleasant one all
thi’ough. Some wore present who had seen very
many dancing seasons under Mr. Needs, and we
believe one or two wore there who had been in his
classes 25 years ago, or nearly. Card and smoking
parties congregated upstairs ; and stray couples
went about their own business in that quiet way
peculiar to young people at certain stages of
life. A married lady wore a very rich ruby
and old gold, and her daughter sparkled
in blue. Two inseparable sisters, almost vene-
rated for their dancing, were like our columns—
all black and white, with an extensive circulation.
And the two fair and fresh daughters of the
pianiste were, of course, there, in white and blue
attractiveness. Two Burwood sisters, tall and fair,
were, as usual, handsome, one in rich flowered
ottoman, the other in white satin and black velvet
stripes. A tall lady, in blue and black, circled con-
tinuously with a gentleman who is not at all tall —
and a young pianiste in p.nk net was naturally
catching. Many were capital dancers, viz. : Miss
Fitzgerald, in black satin and white lace;
Mfss Abrahams, in black satin, ruby trim-
mings, and all the bloom of vivacious health;
Misg Forsythe, in black and pink; Miss Hart,
iu something sweet, of course; Miss Hattie
Jones, with light clothes and toes; and Mrs.
M’Carthy, in garnet. Miss Hankin was fair and
blue, like a bit of sky; and Miss Cole, with coally
hair, not cold in the way of charms, in her white
satin and roses. And Miss Burns should have been
warm in garnet satin, only it was cut low with a 1
view to coolness. Miss Flo Bowdler was gravely
pretty in her black silk and white flowers; and
Miss Needs as dainty-footed as always in black
and brown, with a stock of the flowers
that Oscar used to grow limp over before he
got his hair cut. A William-street young lady
was pretty to the superlative degree in a
dress of black satin trimmed with tile-coloured
bows and lace, gloves to match—all suiting her
perfectly ; and an Elizabeth-street beauty wore a
ruby overskirt of enchanting fit, with white nun’s
cloth skirt. Mrs. Clarke Avore a handsome white
satin, the skirt all small rows of crimson satin,
covered Avith fine lace. The daughter of a South
Sydney member Avas charming in white broch5, lace
and flowers. Mrs. Barnard, from St. Kilda, in a white
ottoman silk, Elizabethan ruff and bunched skirt,
Avith very pale pink brochd tabller, was the
evening’s belle. One Miss Davies was graceful in
blue satin and Avhite lace, a second in Avhite, and a
third in Avhite, a fourth in black and white flower
garlands, a fifth in one of the prettiest little white
arrangements in the room, witn cardinal pompons ;
and then we lost count.
• • •
The second annual hospital ball at Coo-
namble made the Mechanics’ Institute gay on the
18th September, and resulted in a profit. The
Mayoress wore a handsome black broche, with
Spanish lace and jet ornaments. The most
admired costume was Lady Teazle, personated by
Mrs. Klngsmill; Mrs. Curtis was a Fishwife, Mrs.
Ellis as Snow, Mrs. Herrmann as Madame Pompa-
dour, Miss Lloyd a gentle Shepherdess, and
Patience suited Miss Blackett well. Mrs. M’Cul-
lough was a Flower Girl; two young ladies were
Nancy Lee and Ambulance Nurse, and a matron
took Morning. An Indian Nabob, Officer, Sailor,
Forester, and Dick Turpin were male characters.
A lady from Tourable was pretty in pale blue and
lace; and a surveyor's amiable half wore a nice
floral pattern costume Avith lace flowers, her
sister looking lovely in pink and lace. A solicitor’s
Avilo wore cream India muslin and scarlet flowers;
and a Tooloon-street young lady a handsome
chocolate satin ; Mrs. D. M’Cullough looked stately
in maroon and cream lace. The most remarkable
features of the ball wore the number of wall-
fioAvers and the energy of the dancing.
■ • •
“ Lancelot,” of Auckland, gives a spirited
account of the banquet hold there by forty-two
gallant and thirsty souls on the 10th September, to
celebrate the fall of Sebastopol. The Idea was
started by Captain Burningham, and duly worked
up, and on that evening the heroes met in a hall
that was a perfect armoury of SAvords, guns,
bayonets, and other deadly contrivances. Captain
Handley (late Scots Greys) was chairman, and,
Avhile he gallantly struggled with a strongly-built
goose, there Avould have been time to read in
Kinglake’s history of the war how he struggled 29
years before. It was just daylight one freez-
ing morning before Sebastopol, that “I saw
Cornet Handley stabbed in the side and arm,
being at one time surrounded by four Cossacks,
three of Avhom he shot Avith his revolver, and the
fourth was cut down by his sergeant.” The
chairman expressed a pretty plain opinion
that Sir Garnet Wolseley is “a lucky soldier,
as he has really done nothing.” Capt. M’Pherson
(Sutherland Highlanders) recited Sir Colin Camp-
bell’s Farewell to the Highland Brigade. Later on,
things got a little mixed, owing to martial enthu-
siasm being very strong and the rapid fusil-
lade of corks. Some of the Avarriors attempted
songs in a Avay that showed their musical ability
Avas not equal to their military talent; and Avhen
the chairman proposed “ The girl I left behind me,”
another war-scarred veteran sternly objected on
the ground that the girls would never stay where
they were left. Then a lot of various toasts were
run through, including “The Press,” and the
responder deemed it prudent not to say anything
about the pen being mightier than the sword.
The Press should always be prudent. Then the
Commissariat Avas toasted, but as the attacks on the
canteen had been so vigorous he Avas too sad to
reply. “Auld Lang Syne” saw the company off,
leaving the field of banquet covered with “ dead
marines.”
mm •
A very sensible style of entertainment has
been introduced by the .Sydney Mercantile Provi-
dent Association, Avhich is a benefit company on
the usual principles of assistance to sick or indigent
members or their families. Last week their second
Social took place in Tattersaii’s Hall, and Included
a programme of dances, between every four of
which came musical rests, refreshments, and
intervals of general sociableness. The conse-
quence was though the affair was kept up
lor several hours, the guests went home in the
morning without that feeling of fatigue which
follows from continuous dancing. Mostly evening
dress was worn, and Shapter's band played.
♦ ♦ ♦
Quite a fashionable lot of spectators fore-
gathered in the Victoria Barracks on Thursday, by
invitation of Colonel Roberts and officers, to wit-
ness the N.S.W. Artillery sports, Avhich took place
on the Barrac> laAvn. Refreshments and shelter-
ing marquees were erected, the Artillery Band
sent out s rains of melody, and the sports were
v* ry spirited. Of the tAventy items, four prizes
Avere taken by Cane, thus shelving he was decidedly
Able. The style of steeplechase is one that would
add vastly to the interest if adopted at sports on
the Association Ground, Avhich arc very tame
generally. Lots of ladies Avore present, and there
was also dancing carried on in the large messroom.
The officers are going to make the sports annual.
♦ ♦ *
Two Masonic Lodges, the Woolloomooloo
and the Doric, combined in the festivities of a ball
on the 19th, in the Town Hall vestibule, for which
ball a really good band Avas engaged, and oompre-
hensiA r e programmes Avere printed, but the atten-
dance Avas very small. It Avas a pity, as the
arrangements had been most carefully made.
Indeed, this as avcII as the cordiality shoAvn by the
brethren, is generally a feature of Masonic balls.
HoAvevcr, more success In the bright future.
* * *
Gay festivity reigned at Glenganff,
Rand wick, on Wednesday Aveek, Avhen Mr. and
Mrs. P. R. Larkin entertained a hundred friends.
The picturesque site of the house, with varied
vieAvs of land and sea, and Avell-laid grounds, is
charming. The hostess Avore a rich costume of
black velour, Avith train relieved by old gold
duchesse satin; and her sister looked hand-
some in coral duchesse satin pointed bodice,
side draperies and killings trimmed with
lace. A famous lady singer displayed a
corsage of shrimp pink meiweilleux with raised
fern IeaA r es and skirt of creme; and a bewitching
blonde, Avith the classic head of one of the Graces,
Avore creme nun’s cloth with side draperies, and
flounces of Breton lace. A pretty Woollahra
brunette donned cardinal surah corsage and skirt
of cream surah trimmed with vandyke lace. A
grenat velvet and cream satin wasAvell; a dark-
haired Avarbler Avore smoke-grey trimmed with
velvet; and a Moore Park belle, in pink satin,
flashed most dangerous eyes. A special tram took
guests home, after 35 dances had been executed.
*•**•*
Concord Lodge, 666 S.C., held a Masonic ball
at Howlong in the Exchange Theatre, lately, when
decorations and delicacies abounded. Fair attend-
ance, and music by Mr. Palmer, of Benalla, his
two daughters, and Mr. Walter, of Albury. A
Howlong brunette, in white India muslin, lace
skirt, and cherry coloured trimmings, was belle.
A graceful dancer in blue plush and cream satin;
a blonde in pale pink; and a married lady in light
lavender, Avere also observable as charming—On
11th July, Mr. George Henry Vaughan Jenkins, of
Nepean Towers and Douglas Park, was married at
Wrockwardino (North of England) to Miss Beatrice
May, second daughter of the Hon. R. (J. Herbert,
oi Orleton Hall. The bride Avore Avhite satin and
broche trimmed Avith Brussels lace and chenille,
pearl necklace, and diamond pendant, bracelets
uud other ornaments ; and her live maids wore
cream brochd silk and lace, with cream bats and
feathers to match. The honeymoon was spent in
the beautiful vicinity of Windermere, and
Mr. Jenkins’s intention of bringing his bride to
Sydney was announced The Sailors’ Home
ball at Newcastle on the 19th September...
Christchurch (N.Z.) Skating Rink closed with a
large fancy dress ball Several Dunedin ladies
have adopted the dual skirt in public walks.
There is really nothing conspicuous about it—
’The long services and ability of Dr. Schomburg,
Director of the Botanic Gardens, Adelaide, are to
be recognised by having a first-class portrait of
him procured by public contribution, and placed
in the Museum of Botany. The merits of his ac-
complished daughter in Sydney have already been
fully recognised by a young solicitor, who is en-
vied— Annual Hospital ball at Parkes was a good
one, and left a profit. Ladles and supper tables
nicely dressed, and the belle wore white and silver,
and bore a mellifluous but unspellable name—
Mrs. Doctor Anna Potts (!) has been lecturing on
hygiene, physiology, &c., to Christchurch ladies,
and has had large audiences. Mrs. Potts has given
some severe jars, and is very “ rough ” on the social
follies of fashionable folks A lady leaving one
of our largest fashionable depots last week, dis-
covered her change was not right, and returned to
report the matter. The shop-walker was all
suavity, and pointing to one said : “ Did
he serve you, that young gentleman with the light
hair?” “Oh.no,” she replied, “it was an elderly
nobleman with a bald head.” At some good
English balls, the plan has recently been tried
of having no programmes ; and some gen-
tlemen have worn suits of rough black
cloth, instead of tne usual shiny broadcloth
For Saturday afternoon’s lounge, there is a choice
between the sports of the N.S.W. Athletic Club on
the Association Ground, or the regatta of the
M.R.<'., which can be comfortably viewed from
the Club House. Both start proceedings at 3
o’clock Cumberland Fruitgrowers hold their
annual excursion to Manly Beach on 17th October.
Next Wednesday, the Undertakers’ picnic at
Botany. Life is uncertain, but t he undertaker is.
always prepared for death—somebody else’s—
About 150 composed the picnic party annually
given by the firm of Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
to their employes, at Chowder Bay. There were
sports and dancing, and a luncheon, with Mr.
Bradley in the chair. According to i he speeches,
the firm entertain a respect for their employes,
almost approaching to veneration, while their
employes madly love the firm... 100 so vs. to Man-
ager Turner, of AJ.8. Bank, on leaving Cowra for
Albury In Washington (America), roller-skating
having died out, the large rink has been converted
into a “natatorium,” where swimming soirees are
held among the Hite, helped towards attractiveness,
by a musical band, and brilliant electric lights.
Girls with good figures say it’s really the
best thing yet Sub-Inspector Wright, of In-
verell, has been left a fortune of £10,000—
On Friday, the Wagga Skating Rink closed the
season with a capital ball in the Town Hall—Mr.
W. Collins, who is going to the Tweed, was com-
plimented by a friendly garden party and dinner,
at Corry’s, Mr. John Meeks acting as chairman,
proposing the guest’s' health, and handing him an
address. Mrs. Collins received a silver service
from the Seamen’s Union, of which her husband,
was for years treasurer. Other toasts followed,,
then dancing till 11, and the tram home—Thei
annual athletic sports, supper and ball, take place)
at Dungog on 3rd October.
The silver wedding of the Crown Prince ot
Prussia and the Princess Royal of England is
to be marked by the opening of an English
church at Berlin : and to build this church,
funds were raised in London by holding at
bazaar. It was probably the only bazaar
in which a Prince and Princess of Wales
have stood behind a stall and sold goods to the
general public of Great Britain. Many other
notables took part; but they, of course, were tho
great lodestars of attraction. The attendance wasi
enormous, and for three hours “Alexandra, from;
over the sea,” stood under the strong electric
light, to be gazed at by the British public, and ti}
sell it flowers. Such a chance does not often
occur, and it was fully used. Her stall was in the;
centre, and she was dressed all in white with glit-
tering beads, and the inevitable band of velvet
round her throat which conceals the well-knowm
scar. No price was asked; people just walked up>
and handed whatever sum they chose, and she:
gave them what flowers she minded. They didn’i,
buckle with a Princess. The Prince helped awhile,
but he didn’t hold out long, tor not far off was th<)
American stall, whore the trans-Atlantic beautiei 3
handed mint juleps and cocktails to staring snobs,
and the ex-Khedxve of Egypt gave live pounds
for a glass of champagne which he didn’t drink .
Miss Chamberlaine introduced the Prince to the
ladies he had not personally met before, and while
Alexandra pushed business at her counter, Albei t
Edward just carried on with those lively Ameri -
cans as much as he conveniently could. For h e
had to watch Alexandra’s eye. She had positive! y
insisted that Miss Chamberlaine should not appci’r
in any stall, and the wonder was that the disliked
Ohio beauty dared to go at all. The attempt to
brave a thing out against one in the position aijtd
power of the Princess of Wales seemed to be on.iy
as bold as it was unwise. It could only lose her
friends, as few would care to hold and shr iw
opinions counter to those ot the wife of the future
King. The Prince ot Wales doesn’t trouble about
the matter at all. He just goes on enjoying him-
self, and flirting with Miss Chamberlaine whenever
the Princess is not looking, and Mama Chambcrlai ne
doesn’t seem to understand how this peculiar stnte
of affairs is playing the dickens with her lovuly
daughter’s reputation. We must just tell thus
one little fact of the bazaar. There was a fishing
pond under the charge of two of the semi-ropal
stall-keepers, where, instead of flsh, the fisher
hooked up parcels like from a lucky bag. Albert
Edward and the Ohio belle must needs pay th.-dr
sovereigns and have a flsh in the pond. After
several tries, the future King hooked up a iar;ye
parcel, which, on being divested of innumerab le
coverings, was found to be —a bahr's rattle ! He
turned as red as a one-day bride, for it is about
fourteen years since an article of the kind was
neeaed in the Prince’s household—a lapse qui te
long enough to render the renewal of such
domestic pleasures an interesting novelty. But
why the Princess, on being told of the catc h,
should also blush, no one could make out. Miss
Chamberlaine, on the other hand, who was star fl-
ing by, had pretty fair reason to feel a little em-
barrassment, and, do what she might, she cordd
not conceal it. The next moment she herself drew
from the water a portrait *if the Princess of
Wales. It was rather hard on the poor girl, for,
while she no doubt would have been only too
delighted to throw it spitefully back, etiquoute
compelled her not only to carry it carefully awuy,
but to appear quite pleased at getting it. And
under the eyes of scores of quizzing people, too,
whose well-bred stares and subtly-veiled sneers
were all the more galling from their very perfect
refinement. One lady was heard to say : “I could
even have felt sorry for her if she hadn’t brought
it on herself by her own audacious boldness.”


Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 25th September, 1883.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may bo in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender*.
Nature of Works and Supplies
C mstruction of Line of Railway
from Cootarnundra to Gun-
dagai.
Advertising in Tramcars.
Alterations and Additions to
Public Wharf, Moruya
For Posting Advertisements and
right to Bookstalls at Railway
Stations
Bridge at Old Mill-road, Liver-
pool to Campbelltown
Construction of Horse Boat for
Laurieton, Camden Haven
River
Contract 7m, road Tumberumba
to Walaregang
Repairs to Watchhouse, Erskine
and Clarence-streets, Sydney
Alterations and Additions to
Public Wharf, Moruya
Wharf, &c., Garden Island
Bridge over Sandy Creek-road,
Armidale to Inverell
Erection of Goods Shed, at Bal-
lina, Richmond River
Erection of Wharf, at Seven
Oaks, MaciCaV River
Supply of Small Stores, Railway
Department, 1884
Supply of Rolled Iron Girders,
Dariingburst Gaol.
Cast Iron Cylinders for Bridges 1
on the Railway Extension
Homebush to Waratah
Erection of New Courthouse, I
Deniliquin
Erection of Police Buildings,
Tenterlield
Erection of Gaol, Bathurst |
Bridge over Burrowa River, at |
Colley’s Crossing I
Erection of Lock-up, Murrum- I
burrah.
Extension of Breakwater, Mo- I
ruya , 1
Erection of Police Buildings, i
Ironbarks, and tor the Re-
moval and Re-erection at that I
place of Court House and I
Lock-up, Stoney Creek |
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
2nd October,
at 11 o’clock.
9th October,
at 11 o’clock.
IHth October,
at 11 o’clock.
23rd October,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of Works, 3rd Sec- I 30th October,
tion Illawarra Railway. | at 11 o’clock.
Renting Refreshment - room, i
Penrith Railway Station
F. A. WRIGHT.
The ELD RE DG E
\CorresjMWldeiiee Solicited
WITH RKSPONSfnt* TARTIkS
FOB THE LeADIWO
SEWIM MiOniSE OF THE WORM).
Full particulars, catalogue and prices!
'.mailed on application.
® SEWING MACHINE CO.
STEEL ANGLOS, Extra Loud, for Dancing:.
Two years’ guarantee. 35 per cent, under
Sydney prices. No crushing rent! J. STANLEY,
Concertina Doctor, Bathurst.
HORDERNS
ON THE
Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
Ladies residing
Curtains. If
LACE CURTAINS, lOO PRICES.
in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
&
I
BK
Price; 12s. 6d., 15s., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
I lace curtains | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS |
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Sydney, 35th September.
Dear Bhpm?,— It dees seem so strange that more
people don’t go to the Vogrich concerts. I can’t
think -vthat Sydney people want; for even if they
ri.onsWef Herr Vogrich’s music too severely
classical, Miss Rees’s singing ought to attract a
•Croxro. Such a voice as hers is not heard every
'day. She looked so nice, and wore a lovely dress,
At the second concert, of fawn coloured silk, with
satin kiltings and train. The paniers were of
some transparent white material. I wish they’d
light the Protestant Hall better. I have heard
several persons complaining of the bad light there.
There was a pretty large crowd at Madame
Marius's invitation concert on Friday evening last.
A basket decorated with flags (the American flag
at the top) full of flowers was presented to Madame
Marius, and She had a perfect shower of bouquets.
Madame Charbonnet-Kellerman also had quite a
Ioad of (lowers, some tied with tri-coloured ribbons.
It was rather unfortunate for Madame Marius
that her first number on the programme (“ Sapor
Vorresto”) should have been sung by Miss Alice
Rees only a few evenings previously, and the
“ Page’s song ” seems to want a fresh young voice.
Madame was more successful in “ llna Voce ” and
*' Le Lac.”
Madame Chafbonnet-Kellerraann played beauti-
fully, as tthe always does. Mr. T. Rainford was
'Sncot’Od tor “ Simon the Cellarer,” as he deserved
to be. And Mr. Reginald Toms is a delightful
Accompanist. You know, dear, it is half the battle
to A singer to have a good accompanist, who doesn’t
.Want to show off and is content to help the voice.
I daresay Mr. Baker would have sung beautifully
had he been present, but he wasn’t. Madame Kel-
lermann’s dress was very handsome —she always
wears beautiful costume. It was a pale blue bodice
trimmed with deep laoe, and train over salmon-
coloured satin petticoat. Madame Marius wore
striped Cream satin, with skirt of deeper shade
Satin, string* of pearls in the hair. There were not
many noticeable dresses; but one of grey plush,
'out V shape, open front, was elegant. A stately,
•handsome lady, wore ruby velvet pointed bodice,
Cream-coloured skirt, her hair piled up very
high at the back and tastefully arranged. Another
pretty dress was pale blue satin; and there were
many of nun’s veiling, pink, blue, and cream
Fans were more remarkable than dresses. I saw
several very pretty one* Of cardinal feathers, and
one of shades of gold colour. Every lady who can
paint a little ought to decorate her own fan.
There would be some sense as well as beauty in
fancy-work of that kind.
Of narrow ribbon satin are the newest
•trimming for walking as well as evening dresses ;
borne of the ends of ribbons have pompons
f astened on. I saw several young ladies on the
Block on Saturday morning with small bunches of
the ribbon loops fastened on the left shoulder.
Two girls looked so nice and neat that I could not
help admiring them. They had navjHbiue drekses,
skirts of satin made in box pleat*, And jackets and
tunics of cloth. These dresses lifted beautifully to
small stand-up white linen Collars, and straw hats
of dark blue, and bouquets at the waist completed
the costumes. The double-breasted bodice, with
An end of bright Coloured silk handkerchief peep-
ing out. Sebms much favoured. One lady wore
such a lovely little bonnet, all purple pansies, so
{natural as to look like real ones ; it was tied with
loops of narrow ribbon. And I saw a girl with a
{Host extraordinary hat. It was a tall black one.
like the riding hats which used to be worn, and had
a very long black ostrich feather drooping on the
shoulder. You may imagine how long curls
would look under this arrangement I I thought
they were awful. She wore golden brown. Another
wonderful toilette was of bright cardinal red, a
long redingote over skirt of the Same Subdued
t int. A zephyr cloth, made With loose jacket, the
Skirt trimmed with bunches of narrow coloured
ribbons, looked cool and comfortable, though
rather odd. A Costume consisting of crushed
strawberry bodice and tunic, over a muslin skirt
of quite antagonistic colours, was jarring in its
audacious disregard of harmony. A checked
Washing silk, nice small neat pattern, looked quiet
»and pretty ; and I saw a lovely muslin, cream
»round, with softly coloux-ed flower pattern,
home of the new shapes in hats are very fantastic,
and though becoming to most faces, are not at all
shady: they turn back in front from the face, and
I don’t know What’s to become of complexions if
the transparent parasols are going to be used.
Tournures are not only getting outrageous in
street dresses, but many ladies wear the steels
found the hem of their ball-dresses now.
On Saturday afternoon, we had the most delight-
ful (rip down the harbour in the new Manly
steamer, Brighton, which has quite put the Fair-
Jight in the shade. Wo went first as far as Cocka-
too, then down to Manly, where the steamer
stayed for a while, and some of the people went
ashore, and then back to Circular Quay. The
saloons are beautifully fitted up with velvet
covered furniture, cretonne hangings, and every-
thing as good as the ocean steamers. The weather
was lovely, there was a band, and refreshments
Were handed round by the gentlemen; so, alto-
gether, we bad a good time, and I wish you had
been there. Mr. Dailey, who came on board near
Neutral Bay, was conspicuous, as usual, by his
white gloves ; he talked nearly all the time to Mr.
Moncuro Conway, the American philosopher,
who wears such a shocking bad hat. The captain of
the German man-oi-war has very long moustaches,
And looks uncommonly jolly. There was a great
deal of speechifying and cheering. Among the
ladles there were some very nice dresses, but most
Were dark in colour. A checked silk, in which
pink was the predominating colour, had a large
bow of pink silk at the back; hat with cream and
pink feathers. A lady with a black broche dress
wore a very pretty bonnet of crxam satin and
feather, with a bright coloured bird at one side.
An olive green satin trimmed with pluso, black
velvet hat, looked rich Another olive green satin
had bands of iridescent bead trimming, hat with
gold coloured feather. A quiet but very pretty
Gross was a black and grey striped satin skirt,
with black bodice. A ficelle cashmere, with
embroidery and lace to match, looked very neat;
and a navy blue cloth trimmed with gold braid
was becoming. I liked a costume of dark green or
black, with paniers and drapery of chocked silk
of yellowish tint, exceedingly. A myrtle green
velvet and satin, with cream bonnet with maiden-
hair fern trimming, was a very tasteful toilet.
Two young girls wore white drosses with cardinal
.sashes. Everybody seemed jolly and good-
humoured. The gentlemen wore particularly so
after the speech-making and relreshing.
Fancy ! Several girls appeared one evening
lately at a dance with beauty-spots on their faces.
A horrid practice. I do hope it is not going to be
the fashion. Good bye, dear.
Yours, &c.,
MAB.
Marry in haste, and repent at your father-
in-law’s.
The French have sustained another re-
pulse near Ham i. Naturally, this Hands them.
Hums, the murderer, took a step in the
Ihc right direction, on Tuesday last. He stepped
on the drop.
Probably, the neatest thing in the decora-
1 iyo art that is to be seen in Sydney, may be
viewed at Mr. R. A. Watson’s Paragon Hotel,
b'rcular Quay, It is the window of the Paragon Bar,
u Popular house. The design is unique, and
the execution a decided artistic success. The
wnole work is both National and Australian. On
either side are life-size figures of Britannia, as
liiinpress of the Seas, and of the #od Neptune, with
attendant figures and foliage representative of the
flora and fuana of Australia. The emblems are in
gold with illuminations in silver, and the foliage,
illustrative of the soil, is artistically blended in
gold and silver so as to produce an attractive
background, and heighten the effect of the whole
picture. Commerce and Industry are represented
with much typical effect. The artists are Messrs.
1 aimer and Wcekes, who have Jong been in the
front rank in the decorative art in Sydney, and
this last work is in every way in keeping with their
reputation. R. A. Watson deserves well for his
pluck and enterprise in establishing the Paragon
Bar, which Horn its privacy and its appointments
will prove u boon to the neighbourhood.*
Latest Turf Items.
The welcome rain of Monday has had the effect
of making the training-grounds at Randwick in
good going order, and tralneffe are jublldrtt. Tne
state of the course broiler for sortie day§ prior td
Monday was so hard that those horses with doubt-
ful understandings caused their trainers many
anxious moments, and even the possessors of
sound propellers would have been forced to finish
their preparations on the tan. i he downpour will
have the effect of preventing not a few nags being
knocked out, for the hard going was beginning to
tell its tale in several instances.
The well-performed Ad Valorem, by Captivator,
from Azalea, has left the post for the paddock, and
will be located in the Wollongong district. I am
sorry that his owner was unable to patch him up
and get another race or two out of the Hawkes-
bury Autumn Handicap winner; but I fear the
break down was of two severe a nature to admit
of anything but a slight hope being entertained
that ho would sport silk again. I have no doubt
that Ad Valorem will acquit himself well as a sire,
notwithstanding that the mares he will be mated
with will not be of tip-top quality; and I am also
firmly convinced, though he won no less than six
times out of ten starts, including two Produce
Stakes at the Clarence, and a Hawkesbury Handi-
cap, that we had not seen the best of him.
M‘Grade, who has so often distinguished himself
in the pigskin, and gained notoriety as one of our
best and most reliable horsemen on the flat, has
been retained to pilot First Water, who has re-
ceived such sensational support, in the Melbourne
Cup,
Bordeaux and Milparinka have been scratched
for the Caulfield Cup.
THE BETTING MARKET—TUESDAY.
Notwithstanding’ the absence of many metal-
licians from the metropolis during the past week
a fair amount of business has been done over
Coming events, and doubtless the exposure made
lately amongst the bogus sweep promoters will
have the effect of increasing the business done by
the knights of the pencil. On the
Caul field Guineas
the operations have been of such little importance
that there is really nothing worth quoting.
The Caulfield Cup
claims attention first, and a goodly amount lias
been invested on Footstep at 100’s to 4, 5, and s, and
at the last named figure she stands out a decided
first favourite. At 100’s to 3 the following have
been fairly supported : —Frying Pan, i oolka,
Stockdale, Allander, Calma, l ately, Jessie, Malua,
Merman, Claptrap, DcHiiSioil, Belmont, and Jose-
phine) and those prices are still obtainable.
The Mabibtrnong Plate
j figures are much the same as quoted in our last
issue, with no alteration of material importance.
The V.R.C. Derby.
Archie is still in the pride of place, and firm at 3
to 1, any offers of 5 to 2 being quickly closed with.
Off Colour is still at 4 to 1, and Martini-Henry has
come in for such a deal of favour that any offer
over 4 to 1 soon leads to business, and he now
divides the honours of second favourite with the
representative of St. Albans. Warwick and Napier
are each at 10 to 1 offered. Later. Off Colour has
reached to 5 to 1 freely offered.
The Melbourne Cup,
of course, attracts most attention, and at 100’s to
8 taken First Demon heads the list) the best offer
to money being 10 to 1. 100's to 7 have been
pencilled against Le Gfand, and the following
prices have been taken and are still on offer about
others100’s to 6 each Nicholas and Aide-de-
Carap; 100's to 5 each First Water, Martini-Henry,
and Bordeaux; 100’s to 4 each Recovery, Albury,
and Pollio.
Doubles.
On the Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup 1000’s
to 3 and 3 have led to a lot of business taking place,
and the “Derby and Cup” double still keeps up its
i eputation for big transactions, the prices ransring
from 100’s to 3, commencing with Archie, to elastic
figures down to 1000’s to 5 with others Of lesser note.
Wellington (N S.W.) Races.—Opening Han-
dicap: Wheel of Fortune, 1: Ruby, 3; Fleetwood,
3. Wellington Jockey Club Handicap: Barney, I;
Drum Major, 2: Kangarooble, 3. Flying Handi-
cap: Day Dawn, 1; Wheel of Fortune, 3. Monte-
fiore Gift: Fifer, 1; Barney, 3: only two started.
Forced Handicap: Drum Mftjot 1 , 1; Ucgulus, 3;
only two ran,
WAtiLSfiNfi AND PLATTSBURG RACES.
Saturday, Sep. 39.
The following weights have been apportioned:—
Flying Handicap: Verdict 8.4, Mileta 8.0, Maid of
the Hills 8.0, Satellite 7.0, Pot-8-os 6.7, Bridesmaid
6.6, Boomerang 6.6, Myra 6.5, Rosette 6 4, Carlisle
6.4, Whisper Low 6.3. Flirt 6.3, Mars 6.3, Gang
Lassie 6.0. Imperial 6.0, Glendale 6.0.
Wallsend and Plattsburg Turf Club Handicap:
Budelight 9.3, Verdict 8.0, Mileta 7.11, Maid of the
Hills 711, Satellite 610, Pot-8-os 6.4, Bridesmaid 6 3,
Boomerang 6.3, Myra 6.3, Carlisle 6.3, Whisper Low
6.0, Flirt 6 0.
Members’ Handicap: Bracelet 8.12, Trial 7.13,
Orphan 7.3, Ginger 6.13, Darebm 0.9, Ethel 6.6.
MUSCLE[?]ROOK RACES.
SEPT. 21 and 23.
Mk. W. C. QutffTOff has apportioned the weights
thus!—
Flying Handicap, Imile: The Witch 8 4, Erin 7.13,
Epicure7.il, Mann ion 7.9, War Eagle 7.0, Revenge
6.13, Thaumasite 0.13, The Count6.10, Una (late Eva)
6.10, Affection 6.9, Lancer 6.4, Sweetbriar 6.4, East-
borough 6.3, Uralla6.3, Priscilla 6.3, Yidette 6.0.
Musclebrook Handicap, 1)4 mile: Lochinvar 8.8,
Faust 7.8, Hesitation 7.8, The Witch 7.8, Erin 7.3,
Grampian 6.3, Levi 6.0.
Town Plate, 1*4 mile: Brin 8.1, Epicure 8.0, War
Eagle 7.3, Revenge 7.3, Thaumasite 7.1, Myra 7.0,
Sweetbriar 6.7, Lecture 6.6, Levi 6.3, Yidette 6.0.
Upper Hunter Grand Handicap, \% mile: Loch-
invar 8.5, Faust7.5, Hesitation? 5, Brin6.13, Epicure
6.13, Grampian 6.0., Yidette 6.0.
Ladles’Milo Handicaps The Witch 8.1, Erin 7.13,
Marmlon 7.9, War Eagle 7.0, Chesterton (late
Chester) 7.0. Revenge 6.13, Tornado 6.13, The Count
6.10, Una (late Eva) 6.10. Affection 6.9, Lancer 6.4,
Sweetbriar B.4, Uralla 6.3, Priscilla 6.3.
Caulfield Cup meeting (Vic.).—The follow
ing satisfactory entries have been made:—Selling
Race, 18: First Hurdles, 30; Foal Stakes, 17; Gui-
neas, 19; Challenge Cup, 11; Toorak Handicap, 43;
Second Hurdles. 36; Nursery, 33: Findon Harriers’
Gold Yase, 36; Caulfield Cup, 14: Steeplechase,
30; Windsor Handicap, 44.
LATEST MELBOURNE SPORTING.
Wednesday Evening:.
Monday was the general entry day for the
Victorian Amateur Turf Club's Spring meeting,
and owners responded most liberally to the call
made on them. There are 18 entries in the
Selling- Race, :.’0 in the llrst Handicap Hurdle Race,
II in the Amateur Challenge Cup ; 42 in the Toorak
Handicap, 24 in the second Hurdle Race, 32 in the
Nursery Handicap, 38 in the Findon Harrier’s Gold
Vase, 20 in the Steeplechase, and 44 in the Windsor
Handicap. Monday was also the last day on which
it was optional with owners to scratch horses for
the Foal Stakes and Caulfield Guineas, but only
six retired from the former, and five from the
latter. In the Foal stakes New South Wales is
represented by de Mestre’s pair, Cocoanut colt
and Luna colt, and Tom Brown’s tllly, Parapluie.
Adelaide contributes Gratitude, Sandal, and Lav-
ington. The latter colony is represented in the
Guineas by Sardius and Ills Bis; and de Mestre
leaves Waxlight, Ike, Olga, and Copra in. De-
lusion is the only other animal hailing from your
colony in the tluee-year-o'd event; but owners on
your side are large contributors to the o'her
stakes, with Le lleau, Charming, Bonbon, Belmont,
Stoekdale, Gipsy’s Warning, Jocular, Garfield,
Lord Exeter, Combadcllo, and Nopiceallina. The
only scratching for the Melbourne Cup is Esmond;
but Verdure, Buudoora, Turquoise, Signor, Baron
Vyq Mueller, Conjecture, MUparinka, Mrs. Jurlcy,
Marchioness, and Flyflsher have been struck out of
the Caulfield Cup, leaving 49 in that event.
There is no betting of consequence to record on
any of these races, except that Recovery is in some
demand at 100 to 3. M ost of the wagering has been
done about the Maribyrnong Plate, for which as
short a price as a hundred to fifteen has been
taken about Second King, and Buckingham has
met with such steady support that he may now be
quoted at 100 to 8, the same price as Helene. Gar-
field has been backed for a couple of thousand at
100 to 5. E. P. Wilson’s colts, Signor and Good-
wood, were expected to arrive from Launceston
on Wednesday.
DUBBO RACES.
First Day, Friday, September 21.
Trial Stakes! Kangaroobie, 1; Casket, 2; Ger-
trude, 3. Macquarie Handicap! Figaro, 1; Fifer,
2: Wheel of Fortune, 3. Ladies’ Mile: Casket, 1;
Kangaroobie, 2; Gertrude, 3.
Second Day, Saturday.
Firing Handicap: Wheel of fortune, 0.5, 1;
Fifir, 8.3, 2; Gertrude, 6.10, 3. ‘ Dubbo Spring
Handicap: Drum Major, 6.10, 1; Fifer, 7.0, 2;
Kangaroobie, 7.8, 3; Newmarket Handicap: Wheel
of Fortune, 6.12, 1; Gertrude, 6.12,2: Jack Ross,
6.5,3. Forced Handicap: Wheel of Fortune, 7.0,
1; Kangaroobi, 7.12, 2; Fritz, 3. At the final settl-
ing which followed, the following principal prizes
were paid over:—Mr. Sunderland, £70; Mr. Orbell,
£57; Mr. Donohoe, £44.
The gross and nett receipts at the Slade-
Sullivan match was £2680 and £2200 respectively;
of which Sullivan received £1400, and the Maori
£800. The gate-money did not come up to the
Wilson-Sullivan affair, which was £3200; but it
exceeded the sunt taken at the Mitchell-Sullivan
light, which totalled £2200.
The Sydney Amateur Athletic Club had
line weather and an attendance of between four
and live thousand at their 23rd meeting on Satur-
day last. H. S. Dickson won the Maiden 100 Yards;
E. Melville secured the Mile Maiden Bicycle Race.
F. G. Russell won the 150 yards in 15 2-5 sec., and
beat the clubs record of 15 3-5 sec. G. M. Robinson
won the Mile Handicap Walk: A. Henry and J.
Doyle ran a dead heat for the Schools’ Champion
Half-mile, but in the run-off Henry easily bested
his opponent ; F. G. Russell Avon the 100 yards
Challenge Cup; W. C. Shipway had next thing to
a walk-over for the Two Miles Walk Challenge
Cup; J. D. Webster Avon the Half Mile and the
Maiden Mile races; T. M. T omson appropriated
the 220 yards; F. G. Russell secured his third Avin
by clearing 5ft 6in in the high jump; J. Ferris
Avon the Quarter Mile Handicap. For the Four Mile
Open Handicap Bicycle race Lee (scratch) picked up
all his men before three miles Avere covered, and
seemed to be playing Avith his field till towards the
end of the final lap, Avhere he came up and chal-
lenged the leader, E. C. Wood. The pair raced
neck and neck into the “straight,” Avhen Lee be-
came groggy, and came down a cropper, leaving
Wood to finish yards ahead of his field; and the
last race on the card, the Mile Handicap, fell to
D. D. Middleton, the last Champagne Sculling Cup
winner.


THE Imported Blood Stallion,
GRANDMASTER,
(Sire of Sting and Sussex) will Stand at Minimbab
this Season. Terms : Fifteen Guineas per Mare.
Also,
„ LECTURER,
By Kingston, dam Sappho. Terms Ten Guineas
per mare.
A reduction will be made for three or more
mares, the property of the same owner. Good
paddocks provided, and every ere taken, but no
responsibility. For further particulars, apply to
D. F. MACKAY,
Uulcalmah, Whittlngham.
All mares to be removed and paid for by 1st
January, 1884.
The Proprietor will give two Cups, value £25
each, to be run for at the Northern J.C. Meeting,
season 1886-7, for then two-year-olds, the produce
of mares served this season by the above horses,
respectively.
THE Draught Horse,
GRAND AUSTRALIAN,
will Stand this Season at Minimbah. Terms: £3 5s
per mare. He is 5 years old, bred by Mr. E. Larkin,"
Appm, by Honest Tom, imported ; dam Lady Lin-
ooln, imported. He served 11! mares last season,
100 of them proved in foal. He is, without excep-
tion, one of the finest horses ever bred in Australia.
Also, the Blood Stallion,
KING OP THE WEST,
by Gemma di Vergy, from Princess by Little John,
her dam Tomboy by Marquis from a Camerton
Mare. He was a good performer in the best com-
pany, and ran through five seasons, being wonder-
fully sound, and of fine con titution. At three
years old he won the Mudgee Maiden Plate, beat-
ing Novice and Constance; besides running several
times placed. At Four, won Hawkesbury Turf
Club Handicap, beating, among others, Stanhope,
Ladybird, Jav’lin, Burwood, and Viva; and was
several times second and third. At five years’ old
he won the Hawkesbury Turf Club Handicap, for
the second time, carrying 7st., beating Stanhope,
7st. 91b., Athos, 6st. 71b., Othello, 6st. 111b., Sweet-
briar, Sir Solomon, and four others. At Randwick
Spring, won Waverley Handicap (7st. 121b.) beating
Evangeline, Sunbeam, Ladybird, Llama, Viva, and
four others. Won the Stewards’ Cup, at Bathurst
carrying 7st. 81b., beating Blair Athol, Little King
and eight others. Won Hawkesbury Summer
Handicap (7st. 111b.), beating Wrangler, Priam, and
seven others ; and ran second to Beadsman for the
Cudjegong Handicap, at Mudgee. The following
season he did not score a win, but ran unluckily
as he had run on many previous occasions. ’
Terms : £5 5s. per mare.
Good paddocks. Every care taken, but no re-
sponsibility incurred.
D. F. MACKAY,
Dulcalmah, Whittlngham.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion’
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s
at Thirty Guineas per mare. ’
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp'e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner s, ’
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
. "° above horses, but no responsi-
bility Incurred. ‘
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that date will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
Duckenfleld, September 18th, BALES.
CLYDE^LAD.
mO STAND THIS SEASON,
-JL at ASHFIELD, and tra-
- —— vel Cook s River, George’s
River, Bankstown, Liverpool, Parramatta, Baulk-
ham Hills, Byde, &c. The pure-bred Prize Clydes-
dale Stallion, CLYDE LAD, winner of the second
Erize at the Agricultural Society’s Exhibition
ydney, in 1882 (as “ Menangle,” see official cata-
logue), against all ages and all comers, and special
prize at Maitland in the same year (being too late
to enter for the ordinary prizes, Clyde Lad is a
rich dark brown, 5 years old, stands 17 hands high
on short legs, and, as a draught horse, is said bv
competent judges to be a perfect model. He is a
sure foal getter. Pedigree By Muir Lad (imp )
the champion horse of the colony ; dam Jess bv
Shakespeare (imp.); g d Diamond, by Major (imp )■
ggd Bess, by Chestnut George (imp.); gggd
Bonnie Jean (imp.); Bonnie Jpanby Cassill’sScotch
Champion, sold in Scotland for £1900 when 12 years
old (see Scotch Stud Book, vol. 1, page 103 1.
Terms : 4 Guineas for single mare; liberal allow-
ance for two or more mares. Good paddocks, with
every care, but no responsibility.
Apply to Groom, at Dobroyde, Ashfleid.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and Genera! Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G-. OLIVER., Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
FAREWELL HANDICAP,
To be run for at Randwick, 6th OCTOBER, 1883. *
2003 Subscribers at £1 each.
First Horse, £1000 ; Second Horse, £300; Third
Horse, £200. Starters, £250 ; Non-Starters,
£250, to be divided amongst them.
Apply to “ TATTBRSALL,”
Care of Geo. Adams, Tattersall’s Hotel.
EVERYj
MAN
Or. Marston’s New Work
Describing how sufferer* from
Nervous and Physical Debility.
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
SHOULD
WKAK, KKarovs. AND IMPOTKNT
31K A BE STOKED TO
VIGOB,HEALTH A MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
READ
Marston Remedy Co.,
- 72 ELIZABETH ST„ SYDNEY.
London Would, in commenting on the
visit of the Canadian lacrosse team to England,
says:—“The Canadians were deserving of far more
patronage than they received, for they did not
come, as some colonials do, to try what money
they could make out of the trip. Had they been
fortunate enough to have secured a balance, it
would have gone to charity. As it is, they are
considerably out of pocket. In Sunderland they
gave the whole of the proceeds of two matches to
the Disaster Fund.” It also adds“ Next year we
are to have a United States team over; but if the
Australian cricketers decide upon coming, lacrosse
will have to go to the wall.” However, now that
the patriotic willow-wielders of Australia know
that the American lacrosse players only go for
charity, they, the “upholders of Australian
honour” aforesaid, will of course stay at home.
None of them, we are sure, would for a moment
think of interfering with the cause of charity
No.
Deane Brand and Kate Chard have left, or
are leaving, or will not leave, or something, for
London to bring out a comedy. We wish them
b-m vouaje; and trust that if money can bribe them
to let us once again see Theodore Hamilton, Imo-
gene, and a few other stars of that calibre, just to
give us a little variety business while the scene-
shifters are fixing the big sets.
Nature abhors a vacuum. This is the
reason why the masher wears a hat.
La femme vertueuse, dit: non.
La femme passionate, dit: oui.
Tai capricieuse; oul et non.
La coquette: ni oul, nl non.
Mrs. Langtry will, if all goes well, arrive
here in the first week of Angust nextyear. Who
will be the Australian Gebnardt? We hope to
have our now set of teeth by that time. We got a
new ear last week, and if the “ perfesh ” leaves us
alone for a while we may be able to get about on
crutches shortly. By the way, the Lily cleared
£25,000 by her American trip. If she is anyway
economical, wo look forward to the pleasure of
borrowing a trifle from her when she arrives. If
we could borrow nothing else, we should like to
borrow her cheek.
We have something to suggest to Govern-
ment. A tax. Why not, then, levy a tax on the
two new bishops ? Such a shipment of godliness
should certainly be taxed—from the Protectionist
point of view, we mean. Godliness is not much
grown in this country now. but there is no know-
ing when it may be, and it is well to have an eye
to the future. The parson-importing industry
ought to yield a fine revenue. We make a free
f 1ft of this suggestion to our country: for which,
y the way, we are ready to die—for a considera-
tion.
De Quiuoey would have appreciated this.
Whrn he wrote about “ murder as a fine art,” he
was not, perhaps, aware of how very fine an art it
is in the right hands. Two men murdered
another at Kojunup, W.A., a short time ago.
Th-y murdered him lo g't some money he had.
After he gory deed was done, they had some diffi-
culty in disposing of f he body. Which they solved
by cremation. Then, through some fataf instinct,
or pei baps because of some morbid delight they
had in carrying about the dust of their victim
with them, they put the ashes into a box and car
ried it with them. Of course they were found out.
Andtonake the affair still more piquant, they
were conveyed to Perth sitting on this very box.
It must have been a highly spiced sensation to
tee) that the dust of *he murdered man was under
them—ready, as it were, at any moment to turn
bloody at their touch. And at night his ghost
very likely sat between them to keep them com
pany. It is well that only few people know the
pleasures of murder, or there woul 1 be a gallows
at every street corner.
For Arcadian simplicity and festive inno-
cence we think there are few places like Australia.
Tney gave what they called a hospital ball at Wil-
canhia lately. By the way, would it not be rather
an ingenious new departure in music to have
waltzes expressly composed for occasions such as
this—something you know that would suggest to
the dancers the pain and pathos, and all that sort of
thing, of lying in a sick room ? As wo have given
the idea, we will go further and hint a few titles
for such pieces. As, for Instance, “The Measles
March,” “The Quinsy Quadrille.” “The Gout
Galop,” “ The Paralysis Polka,” and say the
“ 8mal 1-pox Schottlsche.” If this suggestion were
carried out, the minds of the dancers would be
kept fixed upon the object of the ball—
a very proper and praiseworthy thing. There
is a queer quaintness, when you some to
think of it, about this connection of mirth
and misery. A man falls sick, or falls
down the stairs, breaks his leg or his head, or has
fits or fever, or one of the other Inventions of a
beneficent Providence for putting people out of
existence. Well, he has to be attended to. Hun-
dreds of others like him had to be attended to.
They have to get dosed and drugged, or have their
legs or their arms or their heads amputated,
which costs money. So the wily committee gives
a ball, at which people—after having paid hand-
somely for the privilege—throw their light fan-
tastic legs about to cover the cost of cutting off
the fight fantastic legs of other people. But we
have seen still more curious things than this. We
have seen—up Far North—strong men shedding
tears as they shook in the hat to discover who
should pay the funeral expeuses of a mate who
bad died.
Another attempt is to be made to swim
Niagara Rapids, by one Bebbro, who was present
at the attempt made by Webb. Bebbro, who is
known In the swimming world as “Marquis
Bebbro,” proposes having a dummy figure con-
structed about his own weight and his size, and to
cast the dummy into the Rapids before making the
attempt. He hopes thus to ascertain the strength
and tendency of the whirlpool. Bebbro is now in
England, and is practising daily in the Thames and
the sea, swimming against the strongest tides.
On 14th September, King and Corbett, two
Melbourne light weights, fought for a trophy,
under Queonsberry rules, at Newton and Nathan’s
saloon. King is 23 years old, stands about 5ft. 2in.,
and weighs 8st.; while Corbett is 22 years of age,
stands 5rt. 5iin., and weighs a shade over 9st. The
men faced each other for over an hour, and at the
conclusion of the fifteenth round the referee de-
cided it a draw, when the stakes were divided. No
material damage was done on either side. After
the boxing was over, M. Nathan and a darkle
named Kichardson had a verbal row, which ended
in their adjourning with a select few to a seques-
tered spot in one of the suburbs, where Nathan, in
the course of some 25 minutes, adduced such
weighty arguments that his dusky opponent gave
in.
A New and Practical Invention for
Farmers.
The inventive skill of the age is every day
saving the world both time and labour. It
is a universally admitted fact that the
mechanical inventions of the last half cen-
tury alone have solved the difficulty of the
requisites of life to the ever-increasing popu-
lation of the world. The steam plough, the
fast and perfect reapers, and the improved
grinding appliances of the mills, have won-
derfully extended the means of supply all
over the world, and Australia has fortu-
nately availed herself of this grand advance.
Yet another wonderful appliance has just
been announced to the Australian pastoral
and f arming public—one which is bound to
be much sought after when its real value is
fully known. The celebrated “ Cream
Separator” (Laval’s patent) is the appliance
referred to. It has won the highest enco-
mia of the English and American Press as
in every way meeting the work which it
was intended to perform. This separator
The latest specimen of the bunyip is a
creature “without a head and with a lobsterlike
tail curling upwards.” Very much like some of
the N.S.W. Government departments.
Somebody has been writing a book about
twins. We should be excited by this subject if we
were married, but we are not—at least, not now;
the handle of the mangle struck her one night,
and we are at present bereaved. But the writer of
this book says some curious things. For instance:
“Sometimes one twin, in one place, buys a par-
ticular object as a present for his brother; while
the other twin, in another place, buys the self-same
object, at the self-same time, for the like purpose.”
This may seem a strange thing, but we can bear the
author out as to its correctness. We knew twins
who acted in a precisely similar manner. They
were both in love with the same girl, and they both
went out at the same time to purchase little tokens
of affection for each other. And the tokens were
exactly alike—they were American axes. There
can be no doubt that there is a mysterious sym-
pathy between two beings whose conditions of
birth are identical. On the same day, at the same
hour, we have known twin brothers who were far
apart doing exactly the same thing. They were
getting drunk. It is such strange and mystic
coincidences as these that flatten out the flippant
and crush the ungodly.
On Saturday last, at Moore Park, the
Britannia C.C. scored an easy win against the Com-
mercial C.C., by four wickets and 17 runs. Scores:
Britannia, 53 (with the loss of six wickets)—Chaffo
23; Commercial, 35.
The sculling race between D. Green, of
Adelaide, and T. Wood, of the Footscray, even-
tuates on the Yarra on Saturday next. Green,
after defeating all Adelaide, challenged all Mel-
bourne, bar the Brothers Edwards and Mr. Fittes,
and Wood promptly took up the cudgels on behalf
of Victoria. Green, who has been trained by J. M.
Christie, has the pull on Wood, who has undergone
his preparation by himself. However, as Wood
belongs to a club the members of which, when
training for big eight-oar races, row about seventy-
nine strokes a minute and smoke pipes all the time,
he may possibly pull through.
Calico Ball at Coonamble last Tuesday
week. None of the ladies masked this time. They
had nothing very dangerous to hide. [A married
lady who wasn’t there sent us this.— Ed. B.]
will remove the cream from milk immedi-
ately after the milking, thus doing away
with the troublesome and delaying system
of setting the milk. About sixty gallons of
milk may be effectually treated in an hour,
leaving but 0’3 per cent, of fat in the
skimmed milk. The English Royal Agricul-
tural Society awarded the patentees a gold
medal for their exhibit, which was tested
with the most satisfactory results in the pre-
sence of many hundreds of the English
farming community Even worked on a
small scale, the appliance will save its own
expense in one year. It can be worked by
horse-gear (as shewn in the accompanying
sketch), and is very simple of management.
The whole apparatus was shown in operation
at the recent Sydney Show, and was in-
spected by many hundreds of pratioal people.
A special award of a silver medal, was made
the exhibitors. The agents for the colony are
Messrs. Nicole, Wetherill, and Oo., 119 Pitt-
street, Sydney, who will give immediate at-
tention to any enquiries from the country
respecting the separator.
41 JUMBO "-OH A PTFR I. THE ARTI-
FICIAL ANIMAL.
CHAPTER 11. —THE SNARE.
NEW DAIRY APPLIANCE—THE MILK SEPARATOR.


THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in ail cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all ordeffi addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tem.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
38.6d. per week—2s. Cd. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
1ST BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERAL VOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. K B E L Y AND CO.,
71 Gou It urn-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasaliers, Lamps, and
find. Comfort, Economy, and Safety,
eely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount wil 1 be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier £3 10 0
3 do. do 3 10 0
3 do. do 1 15 0 to £3 5 0
3 Light Brass Table Lamps .. 5 10 0
1 do. do. do 3 10 0
Brass Bracket Lamps, burn 16
hours 3 0 0
Wall Bracket Lamps, do. .. 0 17 6
Globes and Fittings .. ..0 5 0 each
Fluid, in ca=es, 8 gallons.. .. 0 3 6 gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 13s worth kero-
sene. instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to ail parts of the Colonies.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
DINNER,
*
&
ONE
SHILLING.
4
o
A»*
%
**
$
o
G
O
%
&
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
All Hleals One Minting.
J. C. GREENFIELD, Proprietor.
A, GOEM4N,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, In verell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Cla,3:e3n.ca.o3^L, ,
Comer of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
Sam a share of their PATRONAGE. VI8ITORS
JJfU find this su
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
n <*>essary to mention the quality of the
SPIRITS, BEERS, &e. &c„ as he is, andal-
n? 8 teen, noted throughout th® COLONIES
*or selling nothing but the very best.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
0T THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£o/t"a.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex ( . ■ rt st the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
Of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£26 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Single and
Double Bedrooms, replete with every comfort.
A TRIAL IS RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
THOMAS MUNRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums. Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbeln for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
■^^ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
HEBBLEWHITE & CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&C. &C. &C.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
Soles to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing atones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 m. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-8TREET.
pr Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
T
,? e J? on - w ' A. Brod
W. H. Eldred, Esq., J.p.
Robert Hudson, Esq.
IHE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors *
■ A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
M.P.
w J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; P. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking: House, 357 Georpc-street,
North, with branch at the Hay market.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. 8. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
ii
nniR BUHGIS
l/Ul TAILOR .
tunuun
-I.-.
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony,
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
_ It is a well-known fact that the Foundations of
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 35 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 30 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
35 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £35 cash, Bleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
iar 285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade,
iw.il s
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
THAT tested and most reliable remedy for
Nervous and General Debility, and all com-
plaints arising from lack of nerve force, as Neu-
ralgia, Nervous Headache, and Toothache, Indi-
gestion, Loss of Appe'ite, General Prostration, &c.
By its tonic and soothing effects it at once removes
all craving for ALCOHOL. By its richness hs
a Chemical Food, it builds up the whole
system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold every whore. Prepared
solely by MARSHALL BROTHERS, 106 Market-
street, Sydney. Wholesale Agents— Elliott
Brothers, and B. Prosser & Co.
flYALRJ
umwpuauTYl '//
(HMmNL
WITUAKL
■V/sr
m
V
“ I’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.”
“ Oh, if that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk as a
cricket in a jiffy. Here, Waiter 1 large bottle of
Ayala’s White Label. This is a wine one can’t get
everywhere; and if it doesn’t set you up, Frank, I’ll
give you a new hat.”
BET PHILLIPS 2 CO.,
AGENTS.
BRIDGE-STREET CHAMBERS.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA I’ LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver tomplaint, thereby hindering
other organs from f ulfllling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful ehorus.
ABRAHAM'S PIL^S,
The true invlgorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
“ishfter. your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all those symotoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
tbe maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due I o a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
t,/®. there are imitalions, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Lab jiatiry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
TIT ET LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
1TI_ rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeds, Bonds, Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which wU be paid in full within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE P ETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
9i each Street,
One dcor outh of King Street.
IV. H. Ariell and Co.’sAgencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
/Erated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS* prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M’KENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams’ Paper Bags, &o.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
TT EDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
-M-J drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNO & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz.;
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT Is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association,
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
ehair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
83?” THE PARAGON OP PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Saywell’s Tobacco Go., 1m.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney,
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.


IT CONQUERS PAIN.—HE ADVISES HIS
PERSONAL FRIENDS,
“ Glen View, Darlinghurst,
“ August 17,1881.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs,—It gives me groat pleasure to say, in
the most unqualified manner, that I have found
St. Jacobs Oil the best preparation for Rhetnatism,
Gout, and other pains, that 1 have ever used or
known. A member of my family was suffering
from a severe attack of rheumatiogoutboth in the
hands and feet. The pain was most excruciating.
1 suggested her using St. Jacobs Oil, and am pleased
to say the result was of a most satisfactory charac-
ter. After one or two applications the pain o n '
tirely left, and up to the present have had n
return of the trouble. I look on St. Jacobs un
us a universal panacea for all kinds of aches ann
pains. I have advised many of my personal fnenas
to give it a trial, and have heard from them tnai
nothing they had overused did them so nmcDg n ,;
It is, without doubt,the only Household Kemeny
of modern times, and I shall always keep a Don
within reach.
“I remain, dear Sirs, yours faithfully,
“J. R. Dbewett.
NOTE.—Mr. Drewett is the well-known town
buyer for Messrs. S. Hoffnuug and Company,
street, one of the largest and prominent bins
all Australia.
HOW A USELESS ARM WAS RESTORED
TEN MINUTES, or the experience of E iwa u
Green, Esq., Government Sheriff at Auc
“Auckland, Now Zealand, August 16,1886.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney. ,, I
“ Dear Sirs,—I have great pleasure m
had occasion to use St. Jacobs Oil for an ol J
I received to my shoulder in June, 188~, <J mJ .
that date until July 10th last, I could not •
arm, and found great difficulty m '"’liniments,
plied to medical men and used all soi ts ot | , gt
but without any benefit; but I hadi not the
Jacobs Oil more than ten minutes before or
beneficial effect, and I can work with m m .
spade as well as ever I did, and can strong *
mend this oil to any one suffering trom n i e aso of
ailments. You can make what use you I
this letter for the benefit of others.
" 1 rem .? l fewS|‘E’ SSSS&. sS ' r “-" D
St. Jacobs Oil. the great German remedy gnd
quers pain. Sold by Druggists. ' .
Medicine Dealers throughout the wo • p ireC -
New South Wales, half-a-crown it botue.
lions for using in 11 languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney*
Wholesale Depot lor
Mrs. Hampson—Yum Yum!
At Mrs. Hampson’s last meeting in Mel-
bourne Town Hall a class of “ Hallelujah lasses”
were summoned before her, to receive her bene-
diction and the farewell kiss of peace. An elderly
gentleman who had also been converted by the
Town Hall ministrations presented himself along
with the girls. Mrs. Hampson kissed the latter one
by one, but when she came to the elderly gentle-
man she deliberately passed him over, and refused
to extend to him the blessing for which he had
been patiently waiting. Is it only women that are
to bo saved under the new dispensation, or was
the rejected candidate deprived ot the rites of
fellowship Jjccauso he was old V Mrs. Hampson,
whose bomsets, hy the way, have completely
captivated u'fi, is respectfully requested to explain.
When Lepeaux asked Talleyrand what he
should do towards making a success of the new
religion he was seeking to start, the ex-bishop
replied: “Well, there’s one plan you might try.
Get crucified and rise again the third day.”
The gallant and distinguished veteran,
Connaught, has been appointed to the Colonelcy
of the Scots Guards, in succession to the late Sir
W. T. Knollys ! Napier of Magdala, Collingwood
Dickson, and all that sort of soldiery must go to
the wall, that a faineant princeling may got one of
the prizes of the profession.
In the Far North. First man: “I see by
the tallygraras we’re a goin’ to hev a new doctor
up here to-raorrer.” Second man: “About time,
too. That last cove wo had wuz a daisy. One
night my ole ’ooman was tuk mighty bad, so I
bailed the doctor out, straightened him up wid a
John Collins, an’ then dern mo if he didn’t want to
ampitate the ole girl’s right leg off. Hev another,
hey ?”
Admiral Persano whose death was re-
cently reported, was many years ago in command
of a vessel which was conveying the then Queen
of Sardinia from Genoa to Spozzia. The ship ran
aground. Oavour never employed him again.
Persano inquired why, when Cavour told him that
although he was not quite sure whether there was
anything really in luck and ill-’uck, yet there
might be, and that therefore he never employed a
man who had been unlucky, as ho objected to
throw away one single chance. After Cavour’s
death, Persano was given the command of the
Italian fleet, which was at once defeated by the
Austrians at Lissa.
He wished to know his true mission on
this heap of mud, so he consulted a phrenologist.
Professor Bunkum, by name. After fooling
around his mudpan for about forty-live minutes,
the “Professor” let out as follows :-‘‘Your head,
sir, is one of the most remarkable that 1, have had
go through my hands for many years, the utter
want of any bumps indicating mental capacity ot
even the slightest description is only made up for
by the bumps behind your cars and at the back ot
vour head being of abnormal size. Sir, there are
but two paths of usefulness open to you. , You
must become either a bicyclist or a clerk m the
Lands Department.”
Lillian Russell, known in America as the
“ Queen of the Dudes,” and who is now causing a
good deal of sensation in London by her beauty,
has never* been distinguised by any particulai
moral lustre of character ; in fact, it is notorious
that she is quite as trail as she is fair, and that s
saying a good deal. Lovely Lillian s little Indies,
however, need scarcely be wondered at when her
mother’s opinions are known. This unconventional
mama “believes strongly in propagation on purely
scientific principles, and strongly condemns marri-
age.” She thinks that girls should not be sub-
ordinate to husbands, but should be self-reliant
and independent, entering into social partnerships
when they desire and terminating [them for the
same easy reasons. As, out of live daughters,
three of them, who are married, are all separated
from their husbands : while, on the other hand,
Lillian, without marrying at all, has been separ-
ated twice as often as the other three j ut togethei,
It would seem that as far as self-reliance goes,
Lillian’s mother’s daughters have admirably lul-
tUled their mama’s expectations.
Solemn fact, this. A certain Melbourne
resident recently entertained a small party at his
house. His wife, some iittle time before, had had
her hair cut, and Mr. L. was indignant, as he con-
sidered it had been clipped too close. “ Look at
my wife,” said he, “she has come home like a
gaol-bird.” “ Oh,” replied one of the male guests,
who intended to be complimentary, “ it suits Mrs.
L." Chaos.
Hugh M‘Coll is a member of the Victorian
Legislature. His crank is irrigation. That is to
say, irrigation according to his peculiar plans, the
general principle of which is what Hugh calls “ a
grand canawl.” Inasmuch as this great work is to
convey water up hill as well as down, and this by
some natural process only apparent to the pro-
jector, it is little wonder that the ordinary mind
of the legislator is unable to realise the practi a-
bility of the scheme. For many years has M'Coll
endeavoured to open the eyes of his brethren. He
has been a constant trespasser iu the public offices;
he has made interminable speeches in the House:
he has even succeeded In selling a number of
shares, price half-a-crown, to enable the pre-
liminary survey to be made. And yet he is no
further on than when he began. But he isn’t
licked. Don’t you think it. His ideas are as brisk
as over, and his energy ns virile. He has even de-
veloped more advanced notions. The other night,
in the course of a speech upon the joint subjects
of rabbits and “wattcr,” the old chap declared
that he approved of Mormonism. He afterwards
explained that ho referred to the irrigation policies
of the Mormons, and in no sense alluded to their
domestic habits. But the words were uttered and
reported, and now M’Coll goes about in a wig. The
missus reads the papers.
The Chinese burnt the devil the other day
at Ballarat. He is now supposed to be dead. If
so, there must be a different devil for every colony.
We know our devil isn’t dead, because the churches
are not in mourning'. But they have curious
notions, these Chinese. They light tires annually
tor the purpose of keeping their ancestors warm.
If we cared anything for our ancestors we should
send them an iceberg now and then. This is how
opinions differ.
Dr. Macarthy, the proprietor of a Mel-
bourne asylum, has a long article on Dipsomania in
the current number of the Melbourne Review, a
good deal of which is padding, and a good deal of
which is hash. He is like the abandoned wretches
in the cookery-books, who tell you with a blood-
curdling calmness to take utterly unprocur-
able articles, and with these unattainable in-
gredients do totally impossible things. Read this,
now:—“The cure of dipsomania requires the fol-
lowing means and conditions; I shall name them
in the order of their importance:—1st. Total
abstinence for a long time; this can only be
secured in a retreat (in Macarthy’s Retreat, na
doubt). 2nd. A lively sense of future respon-
sibility beyond the grave (I); no other consideration
will be proof against drink-craving, even when
lessened by retreat treatment. 3rd. Occupation,
not mental, but manual; this is one of my surest
signs of a good disposition !” This is supple-
mented by this trifling direction—“ Stop all alco-
hol.” There you are! Accomplish this, and you
are at once off it. without hewing the wood of the
Retreat, or having a lively sense of future re-
sponsibility beyond the grave. Funny writing
this must seem to men who have got drunk on
“ Gold Cure,” and chewed up a spirit lamp.
The ordinary medical man—or, for the
matter of that, the intelligent layman—hardly need
be told that the so-called “clairvoyant,” who
professes to diagnose, by some occult means, all
diseases—however obscure—is an arrant humbug.
But there are so many fools in the world that
clairvoyants not only manage to live, but actually
fatten on the fruits of what may be gencricallV
termed mere hocus-pocus. There are a lot of
clairvoyants in Sydney, and they number their
credulous believers not only among the ignor-
ant classes of the community, hut they
actually get fees from men—and from hun-
dreds of women—in good positions. You will
find scores of hypochondriacs rushing round say-
ing they have been restored to perfect health bv'a
mysterious man who “sees rightthroughyou-tt's
a fact.” They will, perhaps, tell you that, after
consulting all the doctors and gett ng no relief,
they've been to Mr. Hocus, who merely shuts his
eyes, holds the patient’s hand for a minute, and
then says: “You are suffering from indigestion.
The doctors have treated you for diabetes. They
are wrong.” And so on. Now, here is a clear
howl-out for one of this illustrious fraternity.
Some time ago an unfortunate gentleman who had
been long ill, and, like every man who dies hard,
clutched at straws, determined, after his case had
been pronounced hopeless by the faculty, who said
“cancer,” to visit a “clairvoyant.” The hocus-
pocus man, after the usual posturing, pronounced
the case to be one of “ ulceration of the stomach."
When, a month or two afterwards, the unfortunate
gentleman died, the autopsy revealed a terrible
case of obscure internal cancer.
Jack Crozier’s Bolt.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Jack Crozier, who last November got
two years at Wilcannia Quarter Sessions for
plundering a hawker’s waggon, escaped the
other day from Hay gaol. He and two other
prisoners had been handed over by the gaol
authorities to a police guard for the purpose
of cleaning the Court-house. The constable
in charge took the prisoners into the stable-
yard, and for a few minutes left them to
have their dinner while he went to the mess-
table in the barracks. Crozier availed him-
self of the opportunity, slipped into the
stable, saddled Sergeant Devine’s horse, and
, . . the last seen of him was while he was
shortening his stirrups preparatory to a ride
up the river.” Ho! within there: our orien-
tal sackbut—
Come, felons all, in every cell,
And list to our disclosure;
Just let your toko rest while we tell
The story of Jack Crozier.
You'll learn the wrinkle to adopt,
The very sort of plan you
Must try if ever you arc copped
By coppers at Wilcannia.
Jack Crozier was a daring blade
As ever dropped a “ swag ” on.
And one day made a general raid
Upon a hawker’s waggon;
But, lucklessly, although in loot
He did a tidy stroko—ho
Was nabbed and sent to eat the fruit
Of lawlessness in chokec.
Two years he got, in which to pay
The wages of repentance.
And to the cheerful town of Hay
Was sent to do his sentence —
A place than which, ’tis widely known,
That Hell itself is rosier;
So, growing tired of cracking stone,
“ I pass,” said gay Jack Crozier.
He felt his time was chucked away,
And vowed to throw such sport up ;
And watched his chance, until, one day,
When tidying the Court up,
The man in charge went oif to make
His presence felt at table,
And left his prisoners to take
Their tucker near the stable.
Jack Crozier, strolling through the door,
Soon had Devine’s horse saddled:
“ There’s Devine wisdom here,” he swore,
And mounted and skedaddled,
“ Good bye, old sonnies!” cried he, then,
“ I really don’t suppose you’re
Prepared to see mo here again,
Save with a hook.” Deep Crozier!
At last sight, he was taking in
The leather of his stirrup,
But now, perhaps, this child of sin
Is on his way to “ STurrup.”
So, felons all, if you’re inclined
To let up on the woes you’re
Now suffering under, bear in mind
The crooked .turn of Crozier.
But hold! What is this we now read?—“Jack
Crozier, who so daringly escaped from Hay gael,
has been recaptured. When arrested he denied his
identity but afterwards admitted it. He had pro-
cured a change of clothing but still wore the
prison boots. The horse he had escaped on, to-
gether with the saddie and bridle were recovered
with the aid of black trackers, close by the Mur-
ray river about 20 miles from Balranald. The
horse, a valuable one, the property of the Govern-
ment, is stated to be completely broken down from
the hard work it had to go through, prisoner hav-
ing been lost two days and two nights in the bush,
and only took to his legs when the horse was com-
pletely knocked up.”
Pumping on the Paroo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ An offer has been made to Government
to HU the Paroo River, for twelve months,
for 200 miles, by means of the M‘Comas’
water lift for the sum of £5000, of which two
well-known squatters will contribute £1000
each.”
Who knows not the Father of Waters?—for Hea-
ven’s sake answer us—who
Has not heard of the river of rivers, the large in-
fluential Paroo ?
Come, if anyone hasn’t, let’s whisper it’s some-
where among the back blocks,
And someone wont to it last winter to water an
average ox.
But it didn’t come off, and in consequence people
began to remark
That no one had seen water there, much since
Noah logged past in the Ark;
And the exiles who dwelt on its banks cried: “This
(adjective) system won’t do,
Shall envious Europe be told that no sails stud
Australia’s Paroo ?
Shall the National Credit thus suffer ? No—perish
the (adjective) thought—
We’ll put on a man with a Lift, and-he’ll All her up
like a pint pot.”
So the exiles wrote up to head-quarters, and offered
for merely a song
To give with the lift of M'Comas their river a big
lift along—
If they filled it (as well they might do) not with
water, but tierce shandy-gaff,
Towards the foaming Paroo soon would travel the
writer of this Paroograph.
LADY FLORENCE DIXIE
THE GREAT AUSTRALIAN TRACEDY.
Ho was a poor misguided man,
His eye was dim, his face was wan;
For in the evening of his ago
Ho took to writing for the stage.
He wrote burlesques fine plays to mock—
Poor man, he had to wear the sock—
For nothing would the public please
Hut just the lowest comedies.
But, though ho did this, coin to touch
He had a soul above it much;
To write a drama he was wild,
Where some fond ma would scream,“me choeiij [>.
And while sue shed of tears a flood
The villain he would yell “ber-lud!"
Or where proud sire, with son perverse
Expires exclaiming “ take mo currsse!”
Or else to knock all plays sky-high,
And out-sensation sensation'by
Two tires, throe wrecks of ships full nar-Vna
And five foul murders in an act.
But, somehow, managers would smile
And cough in a most dubious style,
When he would offer them a heap
Of plays like these at prices cheap.
Till to the town there came a man
Who was a great tragedian;
And wanted right at once, did he,
A great Australian tragedy.
Our hero this engaged to write,
And sat up thinking day and night,
And tried and tried, and yet could not
Hit on a realistic plot.
For the tragedian, you see,
Was strong upon reality—
If wine upon the stage he’d take,
It would be wine and no mistake.
And so this poor playwright, he had
To humour nis employer’s fad ;
And from his own experience
To write to make the thing intense.
Well, this upon his mind did prey,
He thought by night, he thought by day,
But couldn’t hit upon a plan
To please the great tragedian.
He thought of ev’ry sort of plot
To please the public taste for rot—
of ev’ry way of choking breath,
Of battle, murder, sudden death.
But none were new—till an insane
Idea flashed across his brain—
“ I am a millionaire, I am,”
He yelled, “ they’ve not used up the tram.
The theme was local, even trite,
For there the tram was day and night
A-ploughing onward, night and day,
Through groans and gore its grisly way.
The hero, then, he did decide
To end with a tram-suicide;
Rut first he’d have, this luck'ess elf,
To try the feeling for himself.
He tried it: where, you ask, is he
And the Australian tragedy ?
Ask of the wheels that far [how neat I—Ed 1
Around strewed the unconscious street.
They had it in the Even Nooze,
And so, you see, he got his dues;
And did, when dead, to fame arrive,
He never could have reached alive.
AND “HER DORG.”


WOOL SALES, 1883.
MY very numerous constituents, and all in-
terested in the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
shall be prepared to do the fullest justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or ether Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OF SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
SALES of LIVE STOCK, TALLOW, HIDES,
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MORT and CO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PEODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers.
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Wool,
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT.
Wool Warehouses and Produce Stores,
CIRCULAR QUAY
and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
NOTICE TO WORKMEN.
MR. BLUNT announces that work will com-
mence on his contract,
HAWKESBURY RIVER TO GOSFORD,
on
MONDAY, 24th SEPTEMBER,
when his old workmen are invited to rally round
him.
MAIN CAMP, GOSFORD.
Gosford is easily reached by steamer from King-
street Wharf, Sydney, dally. Fares, from 3s. to 6s.
By road from Newcastle the distance to Gosford
is 50 miles ; from Maitland to Gosford 60 miles.
The work being in sand and sandstone cuttings,
men are guaranteed three years’ continuous work
in fine weather, and no loss of time.
The works are within three hours’run by steamer
ot Sydney, and families will enjoy all the advan-
tages sf a residence in Sydney, with a cheaper rate
of living.
GOOD WATER and FIREWOOD obtainable at
all points of the Avorks ; and SCHOOLS will be
opened up for families where necessary.
GEORGE BLUNT,
Main Camp, Gosford.
HAWKESBURY RIVER TO GOSFORD.
w
ANTED, MASONS and QUARRYMEN, for
two feet square CULVERTS.
GEORGE BLUNT,
Railway Contractor,
Gosford.
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
44 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
Importers of
WEIGHING
MACHINES,
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS,
AND
MACHINERY.
260. C
’’
DROWN & MAY’S
Portable Engines, Saw BencWes, Chaff Cutters,
Horse Gear, Itc.
uinmors hotel,
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL. IN GOULBURN.
P
UBLIC NOTICE.
J, TURNER ROBF SSON & CO.’S
TAILORING 1JUSTNESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Ob, TWO DOORS NO iTH OF OLD SH«7
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet op Steamships:
* To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.
IJpfafa,
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY,
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
MEDICATED VAPOUR BATHS.
For those diseases where noxious drugs adminis-
tered through the stomach impair the constitution
of the unhappy recipient, and in many cases fail to
cure,
FACTS ARE STUBBORN THINGS.
H. W. COOPER eradicates the most inveterate
cases of disease, without medicine internally, in
less than a sixth of the time required for success
by any other treatment.
Relief from Rheumatic Pains.
To Mr, Cooper,—I can scarcely find words to
thank you for the remarkable cure you have
effected in my case. I have suffered with bad legs
for over 10 years ; I have tried many doctors, and
taken everything advertised to cure, but I grew
worse, and sick of trying. My age is over 60,1 am
very stout, and, keeping a shop, am compelled to
walk about. My friends advised me to go to you.
I now wish I had gone at first—I should not have
suffered so long, and it would have been pounds in
my pocket. My legs are both healed up, and I am
quite well. If anyone doubts the genuineness of
your treatment, let them come to me, or any of
my friends who knew how I suffered. I may add
I i mproved fast from the first day I visited you.
1 Mrs. Black,
August 4th, 1883. SIT Elizabeth-street.
To Mr. Cooper.—I wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my case. I had bad legs
for two years, and could get no relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastway (Eastway Brothers),
George-street.
II. W. C. has voluntary testimony that would fiil
a newspaper, and he has not been in the colony
twelve months.
340 CROWN STREET, opposite Reservoir.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH,
On GOLD, VULCANITE, &c., '
made on the most approved modern principles.
Warranted to combine fit, comfort, and durability,
with perfectly natural appearance.
All dental operations performed with skill. Pain-
less extractions. Teeth stopped.
Charges strictly moderate.
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SURGEON DENTISTS,
lOO Market-street, near Hyde Park.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes. — Private
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings ;
afternoon classes, Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at Tattersall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 251 Elizabeth-street.
The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Boyd's Beard Kllxlr did (his, and will do it
r~on either bald head or bare face. 1 Forces
mT’Y W , W heavy Moustache ip frora'2 to 4 weeks and
m V F o / never fails. 20,000 ympig men already wear
0 full beard, having used 1. to 3 pkt’s. No
Injury, easily applied, certain In effect,
Backets Is. 6d« eaeh',3for‘3s;(idi r post paid,
sent under cover.ftee from observation. Address, Fa AN K Douglas,
Sole Agent, Box 7Su. Q.P.O., Sydney, N,S.W.
“WHAT IS A SECRET?”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
they will study both “Comfort and Economy” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
NOTTINO & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowpeb’s Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
315 George Street.
A few of our undertaking’s MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among: which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
■Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLANWILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1353,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner d. la Basse, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN —re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 3.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 13.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Ex hi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner a la Basse at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner d la Basse to the INTERCOLONIAL RIFLE
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKES
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION.—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners A la Basse in the N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MBNT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners,
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls. Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
IT is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
_ Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 33nd June, 1883.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
«SSSSn
M ■
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO,
the LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
Ihe LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
Unprecedented success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
nr^l n ■ 1 knorance, and science wins ; therefore,
rg&nise, organise at once, so that everyone can
TmiAnm p ent Tobacco like the favourite LION
which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
heyde, todman & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following; renowned English, French, and
German Makers:—
Erard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Kirkman
Soufleto
Trost & Co.
Llpp & Sohn
Aucher Blcke
Ronisch Paling & Co.
Hundt & Sohn A. Bord
Bluthner Berden & Co.
Steinway Herz
Schiedmayer Schwechten
Challen & Son Schwander,
Bcke Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company;
Waters & Co., Pelotjbbrt, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
PALING & CO.’S PIANOS have taken SEVERAL
PRIZES at the LATE AUSTRALIAN INTER-
NATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
W. H. PALING,
Pianoforte, Organ & Harmonium Galleries,
356 GEGRGE STREET.
|Mih
harvest!*
CHAMPION
s
AND
f I
THRESH!*
r IfaUR
Mills
B
TST:
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
22 and 23 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN,
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
■i- URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, & c ., and
aken Internally cures DIARRHCEA, DYSENTERY,
'RAMPS, COLIC, and all other internal aches
vnd pains. ———«
Price* 2/- Sold Everywhere.
G. E. MOULTON, sale propcictor.
MELBOUENE AND SYDNEY.
PAINT
A
%
ma«
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.-This favourite hrana
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere,
CAT TELL & CO.. Solo Agents.


N
OTICE TO THE
NOW LANDING.
T 11 A D E.
Ex GULF of MEXICO—
8 tons Black Curled Horsehair
2 ditto Purified English Feathers
i ditto ditto Eider Down
34 cases Single and Double Bedsteads
41 ditto Single and Double cots.
Ex ANGLO-NORMAN-
54 cases Black and Brass Mounted Half-tester
Bedsteads, new designs
10 bales Fancy Striped Ticking.
Ex MORIALTA—
83 eases 4-post Bedsteads, all sizes
10 ditto Rowclille’s Wove Wire Spring Mat-
tresses
10 bales 38-in. Forfar.
Ex GULF of CARPENTARIA-
10 cases Black and Nickel-plated Bedsteads,
speciality
3 tons Black Curled Hair
4 bales Cotton Ticks
2 ditto Bed Lace.
100 cases Walter Haywood’s Wood-seated Chairs
30 ditto Large Rockers, Cane Seats, ditto
30 ditto Grecian Cane seat ditto
30 ditto Nurse Rockers, Cane Seat ditto
10 ditto Wove Wire Spring Mattresses.
Ex SIR WALTER RALEIGH-
87 cases Assorted Bedsteads
60 ditto Austrian Bentwood Chairs
10 ditto EnglishjBedroom Chairs.
Ex GULF of ST. VINCENT-
20 cases Toilet Glasses
3 tons Curled Hair.
Ex SALAMIS—
74 cases Half-tester Bedsteads
10 ditto Folding Chair Bedsteads
10 bales of White Cotton Flock.
Ex EYVOR—
750 bales best cleaned Java Kapok.
Ex CYNISCA —
10 cases Black and Gold Bedsteads
13 ditto French Bedsteads
5 ditto Rowclitfe’s Wove Wire Mattresses
30 ditto Four-post Iron Bedsteads
10 ditto Children's Cots.
Ex GLENFINART—
10 bales Feathers
30 ditto Curled Vegetable Fibre
20 cases 3ft. 61n. Stump Bedsteads
40 ditto Bedsteads, all sorts and sizes.
Ex IMBERHORNE-
44 cases Bedsteads, lin. and 31n., all sizes.
Ex CEDRIC THE SAXON—
30 cases Austrian Bentwood Chairs.
Ex ALTCAR-
103 packages, consisting of
Wove Wire Mattresses
Bedsteads
Curled Fibre, &c., &c.
Ex CHRISTIANA THOMPSON, to arrive—
54 cases of Iron Bedsteads
10 ditto Brass ditto.
Ex AIKSHAW, from New York-
150 cases of Chairs.
Ex PHASIS—
i 73 cases assorted Bedsteads.
Ex HEREWARD-
10 cases of Nickel-plated H.T. Bedsteads.
The above 18 shipments having been specially
selected and purchased by me for prompt cash
during my recent visit to America and England at
exceedingly low prices, and I can offer you any of
the above goods at less than auction-room prices.
Thanking you for past favours, and soliciting a
continuance of the same,
I remain.
Yours faithfully,
J. LAWLER,
608, George-street, Sydney.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stanc
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, whert
first-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility :—
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclerc
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
C
Y D E S D
L E S .
The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility :—
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 1
I guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
18th September, 1883.
TO ENGINEERS, CONTRACTORS, BUILDERS
AND OTHERS.
STEAM LAUNDRY AT QUARANTINE STA-
TION, SPRING COVE.
TENDERS will be received at the Treasury,
until noon of TUESDAY, the 2nd day of
October, for the Erection and Completion of a
Steam Laundry at the Quarantine Station, in ac-
cordance with plans and specifications, and under
general conditions, to be seen at this olficc.
The site of the proposed work will be pointed
out by the Superintending Officer at the Quarantine
The tenderers must state the term within which
he will undertake to complete the contract, and
each tender must be accompanied by a Treasury
receipt for £200, to be held as security for the due
performance of contract.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily ao-
C< Tend'ers must be addressed to “The Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade,” and delivered
at the Treasury, Macquarie-street, and should be
endorsed, “Tender for Steam Laundry, Quaran-
tine Station.”
GEORGE R. DIBBS
MASON BROTHERS^
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
EXHIBIT'
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
ON receipt of the following collection of
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarded
Free by return of post to any part of New South
Wales
loz. Beet (blood red), loz. Borecole or German
Greens, loz. Brocoli, 3oz. Cabbage (early and
late). 2oz. Carrot (2 varieties), loz. Celery, loz.
Cauliflower, loz. Cress (curled), loz. Mustard
(fine white), loz. Lettuce, loz. Parsnip, loz.
Parsley (extra curled), 2oz. Onions (2 varie-
ties), 4oz. Turnip (3 varieties), loz. Savoy,
loz. Spinach, 2oz. Radish (long and turnip), 2
packets Melons (water and rock), I packet
Cucumber, 1 packet Pumpkin, 1 packet
Tomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
One half of above collection, 10s, post free. 12
packets of choice assorted Flower Seeds, suitable
for sowing, will be presented with each £1
post collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments of
Seeds, containing Peas and Beans, for transit by
coach, rail, or steamer, for small or large gardens,
from 10s, £1, £2, and £3 3s each. Payments made
by money order or, stamps.
C. F. CRESWELL, Seed and Plant Merchant,
474 George-street, Sydney.
mo STAND THIS SEASON at MULGRAVE,
I near WINDSOR, the imported coaching
CTailion,
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
PERFECTION, a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
17.1 hands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. His pedigree is as follows Sire Coker’s
Perfection, g s Warthe’s Perfection, g g s Jackson’s
Perfection, gggs Catton, ggggs Bay Becklng-
ham, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, g g g g g g s
Henderson’s King George. Dam by Old Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for 800 guineas), g d
by Wink’s Champion. Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively, when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(imp.), the dam of Klngsdale, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, &c., &c.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 12 hands high, has
immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony in England, having won
over £2000, including a match for £500, and was
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION :
Mares left in paddock.. .. 8 guineas each.
Mares taken to horse .. .. 6 „ „
TESTATOR 4
UNCLE TOM 3 „ „
G ood paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares will be taken, early application is neces-
sary.
GEORGE S. YEO.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at TOCAL,
PATERSON, the following Thoroughbred
Horses
THE DRUMMER (imp.) Subscription full.
GOLDSBROUGH.
Goldsbrough (the sire of Kamilaroi, Hilarious,
Galata, Morpeth, Carmen, Empress, Tilllmby,
Wheel of Fortune, Kaipara, &c., &c., is by Fire-
works out of Sylvia by Fisherman out of Juliet
by Touchstone out of Lancashire Witch by
Tomboy out of Kite by Bustard, &c.
Terms 16 guineas each mare.
STRUCK~GOLD.
T Struck Gold is a beautiful dappled brown,
Stands 10 hands, with splendid bone, great strength,
and beautiful symmetry. His pedigree cannot be
surpassed (as he combines the much-prize dstralns
of Blrdcatcher, Sweetmeat, and Bay Middleton),
which is as follows By the Miner (the only horse
in England that ever beat the mighty Blair Athol),
out of Whlnnie (dam of Whip, a great performer,
and winner of seven weight-for-age races in one
season), by Pelion, out of Tapioca, by Sweetmeat
(the sire of Macaroni), out of Ellen Middleton
(Wild Dayrell’s dam), by Bay Middleton. The
Miner is by Rataplan (full brother to Stockwell),
out of Manganese, by Irish Birdcatcher, &c.
Struck Gold was placed second to Chester at the
late Intercolonial Show, beating Loup Garou,
Imported Eastley, &c.
Terms : £5 5s. each mare.
Good paddocks for the use of mares, with plenty
of grass and water. Every care taken, but no
responsibility incurred.
Season commences 1st September, 1883, and ends
January 1st, 1884, when all mares must be paid for
and removed. -
Mares sent by steamer will be received at Mor-
peth ; by train at West Maitland, on receipt of
reasonable notice. For further particulars, apply to
F. REYNOLDS, Tocal, Paterson.
G
IBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants,
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies *
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OE CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG.
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertioni .
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c. 1 Kn Kine!,
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines
Bow, M'Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., Ac. ’
Thos. Glover and Company, London —Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell ana Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plains r
Steel Fencing Wire, &c. tes ’ Ir <>n and
Thos. Perry and Son, Bi 1st on—Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablls, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.—James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.—W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, II. HinckSi
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world.
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
H. P. GREGORY.
H. SHAW SMITH.
S. W. GREGORY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps
Korting’s Injectors
Eclipse Windmills
Sturtevant’s Fans.
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TRICYCLES.
JUST ARRIVED, a large shipment of the
celebrated
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladies or Gentlemen.
Send for lists and TERMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers.
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street.
☆
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
£
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers of American
Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIOAIIETTES.— 1 Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position,
i. & s., Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING'S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engage
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gailerf
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
THE SMITH AMERICAN ORGAN,
No less than 77 landed, at from 12 to 00 Guineas.
The 12-GUINEA ORGAN, •<"SSMS>3S£± i,,>
The “CONNOISSEUR” ORGAN
sional Musicians, and for Church, Concert, or Lodge use.
The SMITH ORGANS were awarded the Only First
at the Melbourne Exhibition.
Price Lists, for CASH or EASY TERMS, on application to the Sole Agents.
281 GEORGE STREET.


REMEMBER THIS,
IE YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature iu making you well
again when all else faili
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you arc costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault it you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn tor a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will lind a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP RITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
543, late 531, Oeorge-street, Sydney,
Gentlemen,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
HrLii, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world's metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION.
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT. WEAK-
NESS. &«..
PRICE..
3s. 6d,
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHTTE, Chemist, &
43 ERSKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
BLESSING TO WOMANKIND.
PREVENTS DESTRUCTION TO HEALTH,
AND OFTEN CRIME,
SAFE AND EFFECTUAL.
Sealed particulars free. Address—
PARISIAN IMPORTING COMPANY,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
George Bibbs’ Cow-catcher.
When the great age of art—faintly foreshadowed
in the Post Office carvings—bn rats in lull splendour
upon New South Wales, and a grateful nation
spends its surplus in setting up statues to the
pioneers of progress, we suppose that a colossal
George R. Dibbs will be erected in the most public
place of the Sydney of the future. As a Minister,
he is, perhaps, the best speechmaker and trencher-
man combined that the House possesses. And this
is saying a good deal, for the present Ministry have
succeeded in doing one thing that has paralysed all
who have previously attempted to perform it
elegantly—we mean, speaking with their mouths
full. They have even obtained such a mastery
over this difficult accomplishment that they now
rarely speak otherwise. But it is not for this
though a great and praiseworthy thing that Mr.
Dibbs will deserve a statue in the Pantheon of the
nation. No; it will be for his genius—for his rare
inventive power, which, like all true geniuses, he
has nobly devoted to the service of the public.
Let us tell you an instance of this; he would never
tell you himself—he is too modest. Listen,
then :—Mr. Dibbs, being a kind-hearted and
most sensitive man, could not sleep thinking
of the lives that were lost almost every day
through tram accidents. So he vowed a
solemn vow never to take water with his
whisky until he had discovered some means of
preventing this fearful waste of life. Then he
thought and thought and thought, until at last the
idea flashed upon him. He said nothing to any-
body, but went about with an unconcerned look
ns if nothing were the matter, though close
observers might have noticed that he stroked his
beard meditatively at times and often made no
reply when he was not asked a question. All this
time he was maturing the great thought in his
mind. One day ho came out from his workshop
radiant. He had finished his model and it was a
success. Straightway he imparted the secret to
his colleagues. Soon a select circle of members
knew that the Treasurer had invented an appli-
ance which would do away forever with all
danger from trams, and glorify the Government
till theendof time. When fixed in front of a tram
that tram couldn't hurt a baby if it got oft its
wheels to do it. The most determined attempt at
suicide would be baffled by this wonderful inven-
tion. A man couldn’t possibly get under a train if
he were dying to, while this was fixed to it. Not
a word was said about the matter to anyone out-
side the select circle. None of the newspapers had
any Intimation of it. It was to be a Santa Claus
surprise for the public. So, very quietly the little
crowd who were ,to see the first trial of the sur-
prise went out to Kandwick, and only a tew trusty
officials—bound to secrecy, we believe, by a fear-
some oath—were allowed to be present. A dummy
dressed as a Volunteer with beard, knock knees,
fiat feet, wall eyes, and all complete, was laid
along the line to be experimented upon. We don t
know, by the way, why Mr. Dibbs snould have
made the dummy a Volunteer, except, perhaps,
that he holds the opinion Volunteers would do
best service for their country by committing' sui
cide. However that may be, the mysterious
machine was fixed in front of the tram, a head of
steam was put on, there was a moment of mute
suspense, and theu the tram-wheels glided gently
over the dummy and left no more of him than
vou would see of any other Volunteer if the
Russians landed here after giving notice. The
tram officials filed one by one into a shed and there
lay down on their fact's lor a ong tune. When
they came out, each looked as if ho bad had a fight
with an apoplectic fit and had got the worst of it.
Tiie inventor and Ids friends stalked silently into
another shed and celebrated the event in cham-
pagne This is why Mr. Dibbs ought to have a
statue Whoever reads this will please say nothing
about it, because it is a Ministerial secret. But it s
a solemn tact, for all that.
We read, the other day, of a R.C. clergy-
man in a Victorian country district having threat-
ened to read from the altar the names of those
members of his congregation who had not paid
their “ dues.” The papers commented upon this
action as tyrannical, and savouring of the dark
ages. Perhaps; but we have seen, in New South
Walgs, as curious a sample of what our friends the
priest# would do if they had absolute power. It
was in a country township, and there was a grand
collection one Sunday for some pious purpose or
other —probabjy to purchase the parish piiest a
horse and buggy. On the Sunday following, the
names of the contributors of the various dis-
tricts in the parish were read out by the curate.
Those of o m district werp somewhat behind the
others in the amount of monpy subscribed. Ihe
curate hereupon commenced to denounce them 111
language that a bullock-puucher would be
ashamed of using to his team. After that, there
was a sermon on charity. This curate, we may
mention, by the way, was a perfect specimen of a
certain class of Irish priests —short-necked
and green-toothed, with tufts of hair grow-
ing in the ears, a great gorilla jaw, and
a skin line a nutmeg-grater. These are the
true types of the Irishman of the caricatures.
They are of the old aboriginal race who were driven
into the bogs long ages before the Christian era.
They have had the good fortune to be hooked out
and scraped, and made priests of, but the scraping
has not done much good. It has merely driven the
mud inwards. For the genial and charitable Irish
priest, fond of a good story and a glass, we have a
high respect; but for this other sort of bog-born
soggarth we have nothing but contempt. And
this is just the feeling with which they are regarded
by their superiors-the taper-fingered and highly-
cultured Mannings and Vaughans. Before we
finish, we will give another instance of how these
individuals forget their origin when they are set
Up in a pulpit and permitted to abuse “ in the name
iv Qahd” clean and decent people. It was in a
parish in South Australia. The priest had lately
come from the old country, and had not found out
that an Australian congregation was not quite as
docile as an Irish one. A meeting with regard to
the Education Act was held in the town, at which
a member of the congregation made a speech in
favour of the sec iar system. Next Sunday the
priejt denounced him from the pulpit, and called
him an atheist. AH the eyes of the congregation
were upon him. He was a tall, stern old man,
straight as a pikestaff, and be rose up slowly to
the height of and informed the
priest that he was a liar- A fearful stillness fell
upon the congregation when they heard this sacri-
ligious staiement. But the church did not fall
upon and crush them, as some of them half ex-
pected it would. The old man walked out of it
and after him followed his seven sons and their
families, and with them departed a full third
of the reverend clergyman's income. They did
not turn Protestant, or do anything desperate;
they simply stayed at home and smoked on Sun-
days instead of going to church. And a number
"f the more intelligent members of the congrega-
tion sympathised so much with their case, and
were so stung with anger at seeing a half-civilized
bog-trotter using the privilege of his position to
insult a man whose shoes he was not fit to wipe,
that they also began to stay away. The story at
last reached the ears of the dignitaries of the
church over there, and the zea.ous priest was re-
moved and sent somewheie else ; we don’t know
where, but suppose they must have made him a
missionary to the Cannibal Islands. A tine old
diplomatic way of g.tting rid of mauvaig mjete
have these superiors of the Church. But, would
it not be even more diplomatic to leave in the
hogs these contemporaries of the elk ?
Why should not Dr. Barry be consecrated
Bishop of Sydney, in the Cathedral of Sydney?
Anglican episcopal consecration need not ne-
cessarily take place at Lambeth or Westminster,
London or York. All that is required by the Ku-
brick is a consecrating Archbishop (or bishop) ap-
pointed for the occasion, and two presenting pre-
lates, all of whom could be procured out here.
But some will say, the Queen’s Mandate, which is
also essential, won’t run out here. Perhaps so,
but if it won’t, what is the validity of the conse-
cration of a colonial Bishop conducted under it
either out here or “ at home ?” .
Near the fire-brigade station at Rockhamp-
ton there once resided a big gun which daily
belched out ten pounds of powuer accompanied
with the fact that It was one o’clock and time for
those to go to dinner who had any dinner to go to.
This useful piece of ordnance was shifted round to
the north side of the river, where it is never heard
when the wind is from the south, so that the peo-
ple in town seldom know when they are hungry.
The result might have been foreseen. From being
the rosiest, simplest, and least suspicious among
Anglo-Saxon communities, they have become
lean, “leary,” and incredulous. They are now
agitating to have the gun placed in its old position.
This is not difficult; but so easy have they found
the descent to Avernus, that it will require at
least a hundred-ton piece to give back to them
their lost innocence.
Mundella, England’s Education Minister,
reports 4,333,000 children in attendance at ele-
mentary schools as against 1,600,000 when the Act
passed in ’70. But he says that hundreds of
thousands ar< mere starvelings, without enough
food in their stomachs to sustain thorn through
the physical exertion of learning the elements - t
knowledge. Here are the awful facts The chil-
dren of 313 families attend the Saffron-hill Sch »oI.
More than one-half of these families—fifty-three
per cent.—including often as many as nine per sons,
live in single rooms ! In the Golden-lane School
487 families are represented, three-fourths of
whom—eighty-two per cent, inhabit single rooms I
To the [Seven-dials School 339 families contribute,
85 per cent, of whom reside in single rooms ! In
the Drury-lane School, 75 per cent, of the families
occupy single rooms ! And what says the most
cultured of living English writers of these Drury-
lane children ? Mr. Matthew Arnold examined the
school, and found that these poor underfed boys
and girls understood passages of Shakspeare better,
and recited them more intelligently, than the cpsy
pampered children, older in years, attending
middle-class schools. The poorer children cry
when they are taken from school. They hate holi-
days. The bright, clean school, with its pleasant
views of life, is the oasis in their existence. They
Gar to return to the single room, to the gaunt
poverty, the squalid misery, the no-life of what,
unhappy creatures, they call their “ home.”
Apropos of Jennie Lee’s dress at the last
ball, a friend of ours just from ’Frisco says that
the peaked shoulder straps are all the rage there,
and this is how he came to recollect it. One night
at a ball be accidentally put his hand on a young
lady’s shoulder. The section of satin was very
narrow, and raised high in a puffy mass which
looked soft. It did, Indeed, actually sink down
beneath his light touch until the level of the
actual girl was reached, but Instantly rebounded
with a click. Half afraid he had done some serious
harm, he hastened to apologise. “Oh! you
haven’t hurt me,” said the young beauty, only
do take your hand away, please. There’s a spring
there, you know, in that puff, to make It stand up.
It’s nothing unusual in the present fashion of nigh
shoulders, but there’s no use exposing all one’s
clock-work in public. Thank you.” Our friend
isn’t much on ladies’ dress, and always gets a girl’s
fichu mixed up with her polonaise —if he tries a
description, we mean—but ask him anything about
peaked shoulders, and he livens up at once.
There is a fortune in store for the first man
of humour that goes to Wunghnu. They have a
parson and a parliamentary candidate there, but
neither meets the taste in this line. They want a
professional humorist of the pattern of Graham
Berry and Artemus Ward mixed. A Melbourne
lawyer went up the other month and asked, among
other things, in court, “ when was the cow born ?”
The people of Wunghnu have held holiday since.
They sent wires about the country announcing the
joke. They believed Mark Twain’s best effort was
licked, and ordered unlimited whiskies to cele-
brate the occasion. It seems there would have
been none of this jubilation had the lawyer used
the word “calved” for “born’’ —and this, indeed,
bo assures us, he would have done, only he had
laid the word by to be used in the event of having
to refer to the nativity of any of the leading
Wunghnultes. It is, however, a hopeful locality,
and gome hard-up senator might find it a comfort-
able place to speud a day in.
Thus “Gracchus” on the wisdom of British
statesmen eschewing Jingoism “ A war with
France would, of c iurse, cause an immediate
cessation of commerce with that country, and al-
most ruin our continental trade. We should And
ourselves face to face with a nation that can call a
million of men to arms, and possesses a fleet as
powerful as our own. We must not look for allies
in Europe, for assuredly we should find none.
Russia hates us. Italy has neither forgotten nor
forgiven the high-hai.ded and unscrupulous vvi»y
in which we annihilated the influence it exercised
in Egypt. Germany wants to remain at peace
with France. Moreover, although we give out-
door relief to many of her starveling princes, and
raise thousands of pounds to erect churches in
Berlin, I do not believe she would expend a stiver
if by so doing she could save us from perdition.
And the other perils we should have to encounter
In case of war are the undisguised and deep-seale I
disaffection of the Irish people, the anomalous and
exceptional posi'lon we occupy in Egypt, and a
possible outbreak iu Jndiu.”
Wfe see that a “.Ttlraaica Creole,” in a letter
to the Rockhampton A rods, expresses his indigna-
tion at the Rockhampton Bulletin having used
the term “creole” as a sort of antithesis to “ white
man.” He says, and with etymological accuracy
that “creole” means “an individual born in tno
country, but of a race not native to it;” but he
quite avoids the fact that the word in nine cases
out, of ten is used (like many another) out of its
etymological meaning. Many dictionaries give, as
a secondary meaning of “ creole,” the term “ mon-
grel.” Brewer, under “Creole,” says “The de-
scendants of white people born in Mexico, South
America, and the West Indies: as these people are
of a very mixed race, the word signifies one
between a white and a negro.” Thackeray, who
was particular in the use of words, calls Captain
Woofcomb (in “Philip”) a “creole” after he has
described him as possessing “Just a teaspoonful of
that dark Wind which makes a man naturally
partial to blonde beauty.” Though there are,
doubtless, thousands of individual creoles who
adorn their race by the possession of every manly
quality, yet it is no more than simply accurate to
employ the terra, creole, itself as a “colourable”
expression for a darkey.
A Narellan publican has been fined for
supplying a man with liquor, knowing that a pro-
hibition had been issued forbidding him to be sup-
plied. Things are coming to a pretty rough state
when a man is prevented from getting drunk
when he pleases. Soon, we suppose, it will be im-
possible to got drunk at all. But the Narellan case
reminds us of a young man we used to notice when
we were living in one of the suburbs. We used to
notice him because he was always walking about
briskly, with that look in his eyes which you have
perhaps seen in those of some monomaniac, whose
madness it is that he has lost a treasure, which he
will find one of those days if he keeps his eyes
open. A demon of restlessness seemed to drive
this young man about from one place to another
all the day. We noticed it generally drove
him to hotels. Ho would walk briskly in-
to the bar, and call for his drink. They
would refuse to serve him, and he would
walk out with a foiled look, but still seemingly
hopeful of getting what he wanted before ho had
finished. We asked who he was. He was a young
man of good family, who had come out to the
colonies and drunk himself into imbecility. He
was in receipt of remittances from home—or,
rather, somebody else was in receipt of them for
him—and he was never allowed to handle any of
the money. The hotel-keepers in the suburbs,
where he was known, were cautioned not to sup-
ply him with liquor on credit; it was not neces-
sary to caution those who did not know him. A
certain allowance of spirits was doled out to him
every day, and more than this he was not per-
mitted to have. Yet he still goes about like adoad
body, with a devil inside it, on the march from
morning till night to find some place where he can
get another drink.
It wafe stated in the House of Commons
that “ EVory precaution had been taken for the
safety of the troops ? ” The reference was to the
troops In Egypt, while the “ precautions ” referred
to the cholera. But, if we are to believe an Eng-
lish officer camped within sight of the Pyramid of
Cheops, the only precaution taken by the Home
authorities was that “extra coffins should be ob-
tained from the Engineers’ department.” This
reminds us that, in the old days of unlimited ser-
vice, when “ once a soldier always a soldier ” was
as binding as “ once a priest always a priest ’’—the
davs before Parkes shouldered a shovel in defence
of Chartism, or “ Jamie ” Service humped alongthe
big drum of Liberalism—the soldiers in regiments
ordered for service in India were first put under
stoppages for coffins, just to cheer them up before
starting from England. It was a brutal but neces-
sary precaution, as few of the poor devils ever
saw England again. Who can realise the feelings
of those young, vigorous fellows, just stepping
over the threshold of manhood, as the troop ship
bore them away to fret and die under an iron dis-
cipline and a deadly climate ? Yet there are among
us those who sigh for the “good old times” that
have gone.
Captain Armit has sent two letters from
New Guinea to the Argus, and seems to be having
high old times of it. As yet he has not been en-
abled to tell us any more than we knew before;
indeed, hardly as much. But, patience. Armit is
at the foot of the Astrolabe ranges, and let us
therefore hold our breath until his next letter ar-
rives. Meanwhile, let us hope that, in the inter-
ests of the Argus, the future communications of
the great explorer will contain something novel
and sensational. Lawson did the thing-so far-
very much better in his chambers in London. If
the New Guinea racket is to go down with the
Australian public, it must be dished up with the
sauce plqvnnte of romance and adventure. So far,
Captain Armit has failed to supply us with either.
His stories, hitherto, have related to the friendly,
hospitable uisposition of certain coast nat ives, their
manner of eating and drinking, their honesty, and
their “ ulcerous sores.” This won’t do. We want
a cannibal feast among the HarafOras. We want
fifty, at least, of Captain Armit’s force of one
hundred men, to be butchered, and cooked,
and eaten. We want to be informed that
Professor Denton has succeeded in impart-
ing Spiritist doctrines to the primitive chil-
dren of New Guinea. Finally, as a grand coup
de theatre, w» require to read the thrilling narra-
tive of how Captain Armit, emulating the feats
of Major Goliah O’Grady Gahagan, H.E.I.C.8.,
cut his way single-handed through a savage host
of Haraforas, and arrived covered with wounds
and glory in the editorial sanctum of the Argus.
u Then we shall all be happy, and sing “See the
conquering hero comes. But, until this happy
period of our lives arrives, we shall remain cym-
cd, and dyspeptic, and unbelieving, and scornful.
; That’s
Fashionable Housemaid : “ Only sixteen shillings a week, and not a bit of fresh music
in the house.”
0


C OUfrr
fO* 0
RUM
Prepared according to the directions o: Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED EOR
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE. INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA. WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
S3£~ No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing? Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depressionfollowingoverworkaudanxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G, GILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some eases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can lie borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Bums, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick iu the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
theria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation,
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and 1
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand'
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their tnish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they abb the
best.
American Carriage Emporium*
WTNYARD SQUARE, S YDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO.,
Sole Agents.
At the Lady Godiva “ride” through
Coventry in August, the part of the heroiue was
impersonated by Miss Maud Forrester, the actress.
Sho was mounted on a line grey horse, and wore a
tlesh-coloured, closely-fitting bodice; her shoulders
and arms were bare; long hair fell over hor and a
flowing white veil.
A Timaru man married. The advent of
his second child induced him to try Sydney. Here
ho married again, the officiating clergyman (to
whom ho told a sad tale of his widowhood) being
the same who hitched him before. On the priest’s
return to Timaru the second person he met was
she who was left all forlorn like the maid in the
story-book. Lothario is now studying the map
for some country between which and N.S.W. no
extradition treaty exists.
A priest down South, the other Sunday,
made a rather good point. He said that once upon
a time the Christians persecuted the Jews; now
the Jews have their revenge—they supply to the
Christians money to maintain soldiers who kill one
another. “I wandered,” remarks the correspon-
dent who sent us this, “ if it could be true that the
clergy represented the Christians, the laity of old,
the Jews of old, the laity of the present the Jews
of the present.” For the laity now supply to the
clergy the sinews of war; and for what purpose, if
not the destruction of each other ?—at least, that
is the result.
Recently, two singers met in an aristocratic
drawing-room in London. One was lima de
Murska, whose name has gone over the musical
world—the other almost unknown; and lima was
out of it. Her rival was an American girl, Ade-
laide Detchon, who has already attracted notice by
her charms, but is now discovered to possess a
bird-like voice that puts De Murska's flute-like
warbling entirely in the shade. On this occasion,
she gave what is < escribed as an extraordinary per-
formance, half reciting and half chirruping. It
was about birds, and one seemed to hear them talk-
ing to one another in bird-song language. Adelaide
confessed that much of her power was acq uired:
finding her voice peculiarly flexible, she used to go
for hours into the American woods, listen to the
birds, and imitate them. And the more successful
she was, the more she practised. It is interest-
ing to know, by the way, that Adelaide, who is a
plumpand pretty, round-eyed belle, hasn’t escaped
Albert Edward’s eagle eye, and has been invited to
give readings and ehirrupings at the houses of
several of the nobility. Of course, having at-
tracted the approval of H.R.H., the girl is at once
—well, made.
The advent of that brilliant violinist,
Poussard, reminds us that when Horace was here
before (about a quarter century back) he had a
“ pardner ” called Douay, one of the greatest
violincellists of the day. Over-study—or some-
thing, however—sent this gifted Douay straight
“ off his kadoova ” altogether, and he used, when
the fits came on, to introduce items on the pro-
gramme that his fashionable audiences occasion-
ally deemed rather out of place in public. After a
ravishing, soulful andante, he would go on his
knees and kiss and caress his ’cello, just as the
fondest, maddest Romeo would embrace his Juliet.
Most of the male portion of our first families used
to sneer at this affection, but the ladies loved it
better than pie or a full account of a big divorce
case. Getting worse, however, poor Douay struck
out anew speciality, and in the middle of a frenzied
allegro he stopped short and commenced to peel
off his concert clothes so quickly that he was a
good three-parts undressed before the front seats
Imd time to open a single fan. After this, he still
grew worse, and soon died. But Mons. Poussard
nobly stuck to his poor friend, until Death re-
lieved him of his care.
Whyte-Melville, father of the Major who
died in the hunting-field two years ago, passed in
h s checks in July. He held for a time the Gr snd-
mastership of the Scottish Masons. He was captain
of the St. Andrew’s Golf Club and a member of the
Royal Company of Scottish Archers. ..HughLaw.
Lord Chancellor of reland, is dead. He succee led
Lord O’Hagan. When he was in the Commons he
represented Londonderry County. Unfortunately
his Liberalism was Whiggish, hence his influence
helped to make Buckshot Forster's p licy the
hideous error it was Joseph Knight, the drama-
tic critic of the Athenaeum, has bee i appointed by
Sir Charles Dilke editor of Notes and Queries,
which magazine he also owns. Mr. Knight, it will
be remembered, was left £1000 by the late Adelaide
Neilson for his services in sending her along. We
begin to think it is about time wc were left some-
thing, too. When we look back and think what
services wo have rendered the “ perfesh,” it makes
us angry to find only a bit of shoe-string and a
shirt-button in the cash-box.
During 1882, the twenty-six millions of
England and Wales consumed 30 million gallons of
British spirits, 0 million gallons of imported ditto,
27 million gallons of beer, and 15 million gallons of
wine Advertisement from an English paper : —
“To the infirm and aged.—A powerful and accom-
plished kettle-drum player (Savage-Club Student,
Chinese-Gong Medallist, First-class Prizeman in
Strepitibus Inhumantnrihm. Mus. B. & S. of Ox-
ford and Cambridge) is desirous of meeting with
an aged couple a little hard of hearing, to whose
declining years his constant performance on two
full-sized Bavarian kettle-drums might prove an
agreeable and stimulating solace. Can do thunder-
salvos, double-side tattoo, the Styrian surprise,
fiogbeating, and give a capital imitation of the
Storming of Rangoon. Open to any offer. Would
not object to taking {turns with a fog-horn on a
Channel steamer.—By letter. X., unter-der-Lieder-
tafel” A Rio nigger, as rich as he is black, has a
white driver for his buggy. Hallelujah! “ We’ll
be in heaven afore de bosses.” A new and
voracious insect, that can tie up one leg and then
dance rings round the Colorado beetle, has just
be<?n discovered, and christened Orgyia Antiqua.
It is said to combine the voracity of a KcnUstreet
nanny-goat with the invincibility of a lodging-
house tom-cat. It has sixteen stomachs, all lined
with galvanised iron (like the “dining-out Ad-
ministration”), and it can digest anything but
broken bottles, or the Bishop of Newcastle's letters
to the Echo .... At Bradford, one Benjamin Thomp-
son was sent up tor two months for selling putrid
horseflesh.. .In the House of Commons, Mr. Mac-
farlane asked the Home Secretary whether “it
would be Inconsistent with the prison regulations
that the prisoner be fed during his temporary re-
tirement from business on his own preserved
provisions.” Sydney sausage-makers, beware!
In Melbourne the “working man” is being
bid for all round. Moorhouse wants him to rally
round the Church. Graham Berry wants him to
buttress Coalition Liberalism. And so on. It is
satisfactory to note, however, that the working
men go in for freedom of opinion, the endorse-
ment of Charles Strong’s utterances against Cant-
ing Formula and Credal Intolerance, and the
placing of George Higinbotham in the presidential
chair of their new Association.
This is the programme of the English
“Democratic Federation Adult Suffrage,
Annual Parliaments, Proportional Representa-
tion, Payment of Members and official Expenses
of Elections out of the Rates, Bribery, Treating
and Corrupt Practices at Elections to be made
acts of Felony, Abolition of the House of Lords
and all Hereditary Authorities. Legislative Inde-
pendence for Ireland, National and Federal Par-
liaments including Representation of Colonies and
Dependencies, Nationalisation of the Land, Free
Justice, Disestablishment and Disendowment of
all State Churches, the Power of Declaring War,
Making Peace, or Ratifying Treaties to be vested
in the direct Representatives of the People.”
A very novel picnic was lately given by
Mr. Charles Crocker, a wealthy San Franciscan.
The invitations requested “the pleasure of your
company on Mr. Crocker’s raft at 11 a.m.,” and at
that hour on a warm sunny Sunday the curious
sight was seen of a wavering, vari-coloured line of
ladies and gentlemen wading slowly out into deep
water, and then in a slow bobbing procession, as
they struck out swimming, the heads of the guests
kept gradually getting nearer and nearer the ratt,
until one by one they were all safely helped on
board. The journey was 100 yards, and no boats
whatever were allowed near, the guests conveying
most of the requirements themselves, the heavy
portion of furniture being provided beforehand.
All the company were wrapped in dressing gowns
above their coloured bathing suits, and after an al
fresco feast and an hour s rest, swam back to land.
The idea, though unconventional, was certainly an
original one, and on a bright warm day, with an
awning on the raft, would be delightfully refresh-
ing. There are thousands of nooks in “ our beau-
tiful harbour,” where picnic parties stand looking
down into the cool, crystal waves on a burning
day, and say to one another: “ Won Idn’t it be lovely
to plunge in ?” And why not ? Why shouldn’t a
plunge in be included in the programme ? There
is no lack of tit places in “our beautiful harbour”
where the glistening of the green pellucid water
seems almost to ask that very question; and even
if it does seem a little startling at first to minds
full of the heavy English ideas of propriety, why,
England never had either a harbour or a climate
like ours to tempt her. And there are very re-
spectable nations a long way ahead of England in
their ideas on the bathing question. But stay—
what about Shivering Jimmy, the jelly-fish, in our
beautiful harbour ?
So, that well-known Northerner, “Long
Bill” Steedman, has been done to death by the
Soutli Sea Island niggers. Bill was Government
agent on board the labour-schooner Lavinia,
which left Port Mackay on June 21 and arrived at
Api on August 24. Next day the niggers signalled
the Lavinia to send off a boat, which went ashore
accordingly. Shots were heard shortly afterwards.
Another boat Was immediately sent off, and on
nearing the shore picked up three of the former
boat's crew, who had swum off when the at ack
was made. The boat was soon after recovered,
and in it were found the second mate, still alive,
but dangerously tomahawked, and Long Bill Steed-
man's dead body, terribly multilated. The deal
were brought to Havannah Harbour and buried,
and next time a man-of-war visits Api, a lot of
niggers will probably bite the dust. The killing
was done for the sake of gain, for the trade-box
was found empty, and the mate and agent had been
stripped of everything. Long Bill, who stood six
feet seven, was at one time editor of the Wide
Bay News; afterwards, he took charge of the
Toowoomba Chronicle. He was one of that
numerous and genial class of men who are “their
own enemies,” and through his unhappy failings
lost many valuable appointments. H o had knocked
about the world, from pillar to post—had been all
sorts of things. Had even been a policeman. And
he was equally formidable when wielding the pen of
the journalistorthe baton of thebobby. Poor Bill!
He arrived in Wide Bay from Brisbane, as a mem-
ber of “the foorce,” and one day Inspector Llo.vd
went to the races, leaving Bill in charge of th.*
Jock-up. Well, Bill would have liked to lo to tie
races, also; but as he had to mind the “logs,” and
found tbe time pass rather wearily, he bethought,
him of the fact that, lodged in the watch-
house was a culprit who, like himself, was a bit of
a musician. So Bill, who had indulged in several
potations at Pinselbach’s pub., over the way, un-
locked the door of the aforesaid culprit’s cell and
asked him whether he could play the tlute.
Culprit said ho could. “ Are you a judge
of flutes?” continued Bill. “Yes.” “Then
come round and pick one for me.” So Long
Bill Steedman the policeman and his pri-
soner went in company to the nearest hostelry
and bought a drink, and then they went to the
local music shop and picked a flute, and, when
Inspector Lloyd came back, he found the musical
Erisoner's cell deserted, and all the other prisoners
owling out for various things. Then Lloyd sent
out search parties in quest of the musical watch-
house-keeper and his prisoner, who, in about
throe hours, were discovered in the bar-parlour of
a distant whisky-mill playing the flute. Poor
Long Bill was lined, and his connection with the
force severed, whereupon he became an editor. He
was a University graduate (of Edinburgh, as far as
wo can remember), and would, on the death of his
m ther, have succeeded to very considerable pro-
perty in Scotland. Vale, Long Bill Steedman !
“Wales’s” trump card* may possibly yet
have to be played, since his pet “ Koyal College of
Music ” is not taking well with the public:—
“ If funds for my pet College don’t flow freely,
after all,
I mean to get Louise’s daubs, and hang them on a
wall.
The Princess shall sell catalogues—I’ll stand and
take the bobs—
I think I see the turnstiles choked by lines of eager
snobs!
“Then look what lucre might be won if Alfred
wrote a play—
He penned that lecture upon fish I read the other
day.
He’s got it in him, don’t you know, and Albany
shd 11 act—
I’ll make him take the villain— ivon't the Gaiety be
packed I
“ But I’ve a trump* card now to show, if need
should e’er arise;
Your car, for I would whisper—please prepare for
a surprise:
My Royal mother promised me, if proofs to her I
briny
That some good cause demands the step, to dance a
Highland fling i”
The Duke of Genoa and the Princess of
Bavaria received the first week of their marriage
over 20,000 begging letters. We know what a lot
of these were. We have had (since people knew
we were rich) such'a number ourselves. The
Prince and Princess were asked to support a paper
long popular with the needy and dead because of
its price. Then the reduced young lady, who has
been brought up in the lap of every luxury
(except spelling), also writes and encloses a carpet
smoking-cap and leaves the amount of the return
compliment to the generosity of the noble prince
to whom she sends it. Why, the “widow of a
retired general officer ’ once forwarded a paper
fly-trap, and requested, at the same time, the
fav«.ur of a little loan “not to exceed £5.” The
soldier who has fought with Bourbaki in the
Franco-Prussian war is also an acquaintance of
ours, and we remember he could spike Ongleesh,
as he called it, j ust sufficiently to ask us for a t rifling
loan on a tin medal and a leaden order. We are
not princes yet; but we understand the begging
letter and petition business perfectly. Several
seedy-looking dames, who have called on us with a
letter signed by a clergyman h ive already fed our
engine-tires, and a dark rumour pervades the office
that the clergyman who signed it slumbers head-
less beneath the flooring.
INTAGLIOS.
“ When Love is Dead.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the love-light has faded from the eyes;
When the rose-rod—
Love's garland-crown of glory—wither'd lies:
When Love’s bright soul has sought its native
skies;
When Love is dead :
Oh! who would linger on, chain’d to the corse
Of Passion fled ?
All hopeless straining to the weary oar,
All vainly battling to regain the shore
From whence he sped
With joy-bells ringing, parting shouts and cheers,
When Love was young;
When the Beloved was smiling, thro’ her tears.
At happy visions of long future years.
By poets sung !
Ah! would those lovely, loving dreams might last
To life’s long close!
Would the world’s tempests ne’er might overcast
The sunny skies of Spring ; would Death, the last,
Were first of woes!
In vain! Love is at best a foreign bloom
In this poor clay;
Water’d with tears for its too certain doom;
Fragrant in sunshine, fading ’neath the gloom
Of one dark day!
And if, by chance, some clinging plant survives
Till Life is sped,
Not the less sadly true it is. that lives
Of many men are fetter’d by the gyves
Of Love long dead I
B.
Sept. 16th, 1883.
Arachne.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I watch you on my study wall,
Survivor of the housemaid's broom!
Weaving the web wherein shall fall
The hapless flies to doom.
Truly, a subtle snare is yours;
No marvel that its cunning net
The hopeless wanderer in allures
Who out shall never get.
Where did you learn, so apt, the art
To wile to death from life and day ?
To suck the juices of the heart.
Then cast the shell away ?
Needless the question ’tis to ask,
If true be wnat the legend tells—
That wings, antenna;, are a mask
’Neath which a woman dwells!
That, but transformed, Arachne still,
True to old instincts, plays upon
Poor flies the tricks once swayed the will
Of youth in Colophon.
A waking sad for Beauty’s dream!
The meshes of the golden hair
Once Pallas envied, now but gleam
To make for flies a snare!
Arachne’s fate provokes a tear,
Yet do I know a proud coquette
Who well might find a moral here—
What think you, Mariette ?
E. B. LOUGHRAN.
Melbourne.
“Fairer than the Flowers above Thoe, &e.”—Evening Alfred.


WOOL SEASON, 1883-4.
R. Goldsbrough & Co.
(LIMITED),
In which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency And Banking Corporation (Limited),
and E. Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
taplial . £3,000,000.
BEG to notify the Woolgrowers of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
Liberal Cash Advances, on favolivable terms, on
the ensiling clip of Wool, and on Station securities.
They hdve also much pleasure in announcing that
their NEW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
Will be ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
Adction Sales of which will be held every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
ioitialu under the control of an efficient stall of
experts, who will take charge of and Sell to the
Best Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company’s care. The Sales of Pat Stock (at
Homebush), Station and Freehold Properties,
Grain, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
Station Produce, will be under thesuperindenceof
Mr. GEOEGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will be
unrivalled in the Southern Hemisphere for extent
and adaptability to the trade, being replete with
every Modern Improvement for the Efficient Dis-
play cf Wool, the sale of which will bj conducted
on the Melbourne system. Large and complete
samples of each clip will be shown in the well-
lighted SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise the
whole of the upper floors, and as the bulk will be
easily accessible in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest facilities will
be available for inspection, thus ensuring the ut-
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to offering,
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will be carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale.
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected up to the full market value. As they con-
fine their business strictly to that of SELLING
BROKERS ONLY, the best guarantee is afforded
that RCLJjaroel will be sold for less than its worth.
FarmcW Lots receive special attention, every bale
and sack in the clip being shown in the Sample
Rooms. Should owners’ expectations not be
realized in * ydney, they have the advantage of
trying the Melbourne market before deciding on
shipment, to which latter case the Company is pre-
pared to make liberal cash advances at lowest
market rates, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, or American markets for disposal. The
charges on Wool offered for sale, but not sold, are
only ONE SHILLING PER BALE, which includes
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst instore,
and Delivering.
LONDON-156 & 157 LEADENHALL STREET.
MELBOURNB-BOURKE.se WlLlAAM STREETS.
SYDNEY-4 SPRING STREET.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OEtTCE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Yass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcaim
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Northern
Morpeth
Gunnedah
h'arrabri
Walgett
District, N.S.W.;
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
District, N.S.W.:
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane Yeulba
B°ma Cambooya
Dalby
Central Line;
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M’CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
W Agencies in all parts of the world.
UMBREL
LLAS
RECOVERED
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, an4 your
Parasols re-liped and made
eaunl to Npyr, af
if. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
jverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. npatjy e*e-
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
New South Wales Racing Com-
pany's Consultations
ON
MELBOURNE GUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£25,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters
2nd „ 20001 Non-Starters
3rd „ 10001
For 149 Horses
£1000
2000
117 Prize Gifts-266 Prizes in all.
£10,000
1 Prize Gift
3
. £4000
» ..2000
„ .. 1000
„ at £500 1000
„ at 250 1000
117 Prize Gifts
8 Prize Gifts, at 125 £1000
30 „ at £100 3000
40 „ at 50 2000
40 „ at 25 1000
£15,000
Application by Letter only, addressed to the Secre-
tary, No. 3 Wentworth (Jourt, Elizabeth-street:
or Box 255, G.P.O., Sydney.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.0
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Loading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholders.
W. BURNHAKD.
~|~ J A MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS.
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
10,000 shares at 10s. each..
£5000
1st Horse ..
2nd „
3rd „ ..
Starters ..
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
£3000
1000
600
300
300
1000
£5000
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public fo
their support in previous consultations, and hope
for a continuance of their patronage for this nro
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
D. LINDO, No. 8 Tattersall’s Chambers, Hunter-
street, and Box 723, P.O., Sydney.
Tattersall’s Monster Consultations.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
First Horse, £5000 ; Second Horse, £3000: Third
Horse, £1000. Starters, £1000; Non-starters,
£1000; to be divided amongst them.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
First Horse, £1000 ; Second Horse, £300 ; Third
Horse, £300. Starters, £350 ; Non-starters, £350;
to be divided amongst them.
Persons making application are requested to
register their Letters to ensure safe delivery of
same, and enclose addressed stamped envelope for
reply.
Address “ TATTERSALL,” care of G. Adams,
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney.
D
M
l N D.’
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:-
First Horse.. .. £3000
Second Horse .. 2000
Third Horse .. 1000
Starters divide.. 1000
Non-starters .. 500
3 Prizes of £250 each, £50(
5 Prizes of 100 „ 50(
10 Prizes of 50 „ 50(
20 Prizes of 35 „ 50(
50 Prizes of 10 „ 50C
£10,000
Application by enclosing stamp, to
Care of O. Sehieblich.
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above
£3000 For 2s. Oft. £3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to tl
public never before attempted, is the property <
a bond fide. Company with responsible directors
CAPITAL: £1(5,000, divided into 80,000 Shares c
2s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distribute
as follows :—
1st horse ..
2nd horse ..
3rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do.
30 Prizes at £50 .. 1000 Total.. .£10 00
We shall send 9 tickets for a pound. Not loss
than 2 sent to any single address. Send P. O order
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add’
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st November
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediately
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for prospectus. No charge
Address—“ VICTORY,”
Care of George Robertson, 94 Bourke-street
Next Opera House, Melbourne. *
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
felSH BAllS
AMD
Ingham’s
is
SB
/AY/
D ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
m\
tAly
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
}ST 121 LIVERPOOL STREET
and at
201 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Castings, Wrought Iroi
Pal leadings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cas
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fir
Estimates given for all kinds of Ironwork, &c.
K
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
ffldllow, dad well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st,, Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
supply you with the “PAINLESS CORN
keLIBVER, write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor, who will forward a bottle to all parts ol
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gympie.
BLEND
Jmark]
Al
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
P. K I lv li Y,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TTra-d-ertalrer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16; years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DAMS,
IMPORTER OF
Bicycles eel Tricycles
4-ND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney,
B5
1 1
m
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
L’he BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Robert butcher & co (
(Late William Long-),
tW WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W, & A. Gllbey’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits Imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
H
UST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 George St
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 6d.
Superior Ladles’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 0d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
AGING SEASON, 1883.
E. E. JONES,
INTERNATIONAL HOTEL, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
ENCOURAGED by past successes, I beg to
announce that I intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
of the above, on the usual distribution.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Address—
“JANITOR.”
Care of E. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
N.B.—For the convenience of Town Clients, a
Letter Box will be found in the bar.
D3000 on MELBOURNE CUP.
OW 1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
"AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
First Horse
Second Horse ..
Third Horse
Starters divide ..
Non-Star era
Total, £2000.
£1000
900
250
130
100
Prizes at
£26—£250
10— 500
5— 250
£1000
Grand total, £3000
The success of former events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps tor reply
and result. Register letters.
Address —“ AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
jyj ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “A»AMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7260 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) 1200
*** First Star £2000 V
*** Second Star 1000 ♦**
♦** Third Star 500 V
12 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £35
each, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash? to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Sydney.
sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.
Will positively clpse op £lth October, l


Humour says:—Miss Dalton, prior to her
marriage with the handsome Land Leaguer, had
£20.000 settled on her. But the Hon. J. Taylor,
“ King of Toowoomba,” has just made his son
Condaraine's newly-acquired bride pretty comfort-
able by donating £40,( 00. This is tumbling into
honey with a vengeance.
The comfortably rich and well-off should
beware of teaching the poor man at all. They
will, by doing so, be but removing a cataract from
his mind’s eye that he may stare aghast and piteous
at his own poverty and nakedness; or that he may
gaze with a wild beast’s hunger at their truly
noble prosperity, which he can never taste, save in
the wild beast s way.
Lord Justice Bramwell describes the Bill
for the absolute cloture of pubs, on Sundays as
” An Act for the Encouragement of Bottled Beer, ’
and wonders that Englishmen, who are so strong in
other respects, should submit to the dictation of a
number of resourceless clerks and shopboys who
form the rank and file of the various organizations
for the promotion of temperance among the weak-
minded.
Memo, for chairmen at public banquets
When you come to the toast of “The Parliament
of N.S.W.,” say, cheerfully: “Gentlemen,—The
soft-headed gentleman who will respond to this
toast, will no doubt give us, as usual, the worn-out
cirmis-wheezo that ‘Parliament is what the people
make it.’ That baing the case, let us drink, gentle-
men, to ‘ The Parliament of N.S.W. and our own
reformation.’ ” This will be sufficient to paralyse
any ordinary member of Parliament.
The English Treasury authorities have sold
the reversion of the common manors of Esher and
Milbourne to the Queen for the paltry sum of £1000,
which, say several influential papers, looks very
like a job. These commons form part of the Crown
lands in exchange for which the Queen’s Civil List
has been given. They are only thirteen miles from
London, and are of extraordinary beauty. The
result is, as might have been expected, her frugal
Majesty is already beginning to enclose the com-
mons and to exclude the public.
“Does anyone suppose ” (murmured J. C.
Neild to the burghers of Paddington) “ that the
members of our early Parliaments intrigued fora
culvert or log-rolled for a lock-up?” Well, a big
majority of the crowd who formed our early Par-
liaments were so intent on intriguing for their own
private ends, and log-rolling for their own per-
sonal benefit, that the looking after of even such
small public boons as culverts, and so on, was
wholly neglected by them. Read over the names
of the first batch of representatives under Re-
sponsible Government, and you’ll find amongst
them those of a lot of fellows who knew only too
well what feathering their own nests meant.
A curious challenge has been issued by a
Chinaman in New York against an Irish politician.
Dennis Kearney, of the Star, having written a
good deal of wholesale vilification of Chinamen,
Mr. Wong Chin Foo, editor of the Chinese-Ameri-
cav, a journal published weekly in the celestial
interest, took him up and called upon him either
to attempt a proof of his abuse, or retract it. Mr.
Foo offered to meet Mr. Kearney in a public de-
bate on comparison of the Chinese nation against
the Irish—their morals, history, arts, sciences, in-
fluence and personal cleanliness—“ to be kept, if
possible, within the limits of decency,”—tauntingly
added the little Chinaman.
Looking over England at the present
moment, one great feature of life meets the eye of
the attentive observer. He will see an immense
area of poverty, and in it a tew green spots of
luxury and wealth. A million of people in London
alone get up every morning, and are not thoroughly
sure where that day’s meals are to come from.
Yet, not four miles from these slums of the most
dejected and the most forlorn want, are to be seen
houses where hundreds of pounds are spent in
flowers for a single banquet, where horses are
stabled more like lords than beasts, and where such
waste and such extravagance goes on daily as
would keep hundreds of working men’s families
for a year.
“Respondent casually met Horwitzin Mel-
bourne on a Saturday, and the next day he pro-
posed marriage. iShe accepted on Monday, and be
left for Sydney on Tuesday, returning to Mel-
bourne on the following Monday, and was married
on the ensuing Tuesday;”—
Solomon Grundy,
Born on Monday,
Christened on Tuesday,
Married on Wednesday,
Took ill on Thursday,
Got worse on Friday,
Died on Saturday,
Buried on Sunday ;
And there’s an end to Solomon Grundy.
Ouida’s “ Wanda,” though here and there
it gives sad evidence of failing powers, is a strong
creation, full of wonderfully telling situations.
And it is also “ truffled” with good points. Here
is one which suits the Sydney latitude as well as
that of Florence. Says Dr. Greswold “ All the
difference between our times and S. Bruno’s lies
there ; they believed in sin, we do not. I say,
‘we,’ I mean the voluptuaries and idlers of your
world. ‘Perhaps not,’ answered Sabran, a little
gloomily; ‘but we do believe in dishonour.’ ‘Do
you ?' said the doctor, with some irony; ‘ oh, I
suppose you do. You may seduce Gretchen :
you must not forsake Faustine : you must not lie
to a man ; you may lie to a woman. You must
not steal; you may beggar your friend at baccara.
I confess I have never understood the confusion
pf your unwrjttei) Jaws on ethics and etiquette.’ ”
In Queensland a train full of passengers
started from Toowoomba for Brisbane. At Grand-
chester It was met by a “ special” going the other
way. Sir Arthur Palmer was on board the latter.
The engine they gave him was troubled with a
determination to shirk its fair responsibilities,
so the railway officials “collared” the one belong-
ing to the passengers and sent Sir Arthur flying
along. It was on a Saturday, and the passengers—
mostly business people—after waiting an hour and
a half for a fresh engine, arrived in Ipswich when
the stock sales were over for the day and the banks
closed. In Russia, when the peasants hoar that
one of the Czar's couriers is coming their way,
they first find out his probable route and then
drive all their horses as far as they conveniently
can from home. They know the loose views of
meum and tuum entertained by His Majesty’s
messengers. But. even in Muscovy, things would
have to be very unsettled before hypothecating a
steam engine. We were about taking up some
land in Queensland but have changed our minds.
’Twas in a fashionable railway suburb,
about two weeks ago. A pair of our blue-blooded
aristocrats sat side by side in the gloaming. They
had only been three short weeks married, and
that’s the reason they didn’t sit in the kitchen.
Then, nestling her lovely head where the bando-
line could make most devastation on his frilled
shirt, the gentle wife softly said: “Cliawles, dear!
thou hast often sworn that if I but hinted one
request you would go to the end of the world, if
needed, to grant it. Do you love me now as you did
then?” And came the passionate reply: “ Aye!
by my soul, darling Maud, I would. Bid me rob
the Czar of his glittering crown, that its brightest
jewels might deck thy snowy brow, or bid me
pluck the delicate anemone from the ocean’s
depths to deck thy hair; bid me to face any toil or
danger for thy dear sake, and I fly to perform the
deed.” Then the little head nestled still closer in,
and spoilt more shirt front, and the starry eyes
looked beamingly up, and the sweet voice said;
“Thanks, my own brave, noble husband, thanks,—
and now promise me you’ll take me in every day
to hear this great Horwitz divorce case tried in
Sydney.” Slow music.
At Launceston, Tasmania, the cause of
progress has been helped along by an entertain-
ment given, under the patronage of the clergy, in
aid of the local recreation ground. The programme
was varied in more ways than one. The chief
variation was the introduction of a Victorian in-
surance canvasser who, from purely disinterested
motives (so the chairman said, we trust him -get
out) volunteered to give an address on phrenology,
mesmerism and physiognomy. We have had some
experience of book-agents, Jews and insurance
canvassers, and the only fault we found with them
was that they never let their own interests stand
in the way of public instruction. So six gentlemen
faced the audience to have their cranial peculiar-
ities felt and explained to the expectant crowd.
The first had a knob on the back of his head as big
as a quart pot. The “canvasser” struck this the
first go, and “ froze ” to it. There was no induce-
ment to try the anterior portion as the posterior
offered such attractions. He thumbed it all over,
and then gave it as his private opinion that the
subject was not a proper person to look after six
daughters, all over sixteen. The audience shrieked
with glee, which was a trifle rough on the man and
his daughters. The singular power of the lecturer
was shown by his rapidly reducing to mesmeric
inanity four people on whom ho had previously
experimented in the public-house parlour. One
man alone came out of the ordeal with colours
flying. He was a blue-ribbon, non-smoking. Mrs.
Hampson’s No. i collection, singing, twice-to-
church-on-Sunday person. When the “ canvasser ”
Eatted him on the head (ho had pteviously insured
is life against everything but hanging), and said
that he would yet rise to be goat-inspector or local
preacher, a nine-inch smile passed round the
assembled clergy. He passed the night in the
lock-up.
It has long been a moot point as to what
really constituted the height of impudence. The
problem has however been solved in Victoria. At
Woodend, an up-country township, an application
was recently made to Mr, Nicolson, P.M., for the
transfer of a publican’s license. The application,
however, was resisted by a strong resident tee-
totaller who appeared in Court fortified with al 1
kinds of objections. Mr. J.P. T. Caulfield, better
known to fame as “The Boy-Politician,” who
carries on business in Melbourne as a hotel broker
and valuer, happened to be the agent who effected
the sale of the hotel for which a transfer of license
was sought. Being possessed of plenty of effront-
ery and verbosity-seeing, also, that his clients
were in a fix and that he would lose his commission
were the transfer not obtained, he buckled on his
armour and took up a position at the lawyers
table. There he began to severely cross-examine
the individ ual who was opposing the application
and soon “ flabbergasted” him. Then he made
a neat and telling address to the licensing magis-
trate in support of the application and induced
His Worship to grant it. The temperance objector
thereupon declared that he would draw the at-
tention of the Minister of Justice to the fact that
the P.M. had allowed the “Boy-Politician” the
privilege of a lawyer, whilst legally he had no
standing there. Mr. Nicolson in a state of be-
wilderment explained that he had only recently
been appointed to the Woodend district, and that
he understood all along that Mr. Caulfield was a
local young lawyer, or he would not have allowed
him to air his eloquence at such length. The
amateur lawyer, however, had scored his point,
the transfer was granted, the sale of the hotel
afterwards completed, the commission pocketed,
and the joke toasted in bumpers of champagne.
The following is the sort of talk which
commends itself to the intelligence of such people
as allow themselves to be fooled into joining secret
societies. It was delivered by a N.8.W. M.P. in an
Orange Lodge“ Brethren, I have much pleasure
in being amongst you to-night, and feel greatly
gratified to see your lodge progressing so well, and
so well represented. It shows that the cause we
fight for is a healthy one, and I meet with none but
intelligent faces here (applause). But any body or
union will progress if its promoters take as a guid-
ance to their actions and their chief principles the
word of Goahd, that is revealed in this book—the
Bible (applause). You know, it is the secret of
England’s greatness; and, indeed, as long as Eng-
land’s sovereigns and statesmen were guided by
the Holy Bible, our nation extended and prospered.
But as soon as they diverted from it, and meddled
and compromised with the Pope, misfortunes after
misfortunes set in. The wrath of the Loard was
kindled, and his hand laid heavily upon us. I may
say this is the case atthe present time (hear, hear!)
Look at our defeat in Afghanistan, our misfor-
tunes an Basuto and Zululand, our ignominious
defeat in the Transvaal, &c. And this because we
have at the head of our Imperial Government a man
—Gladstone—whom I hope very soon, if not the
people, the Loard will put away—a man compro -
raising with and making concessions to the Pope;
meddling and compromising with the Popish
rebels in Ireland. The more England yields, the
more dissatisfied and audacious the Irish will bo,
who proporly see in such acts a symptom of weak-
ness. But our yellow boys, if at lib rty to do so,
would soon make short work with the green (ap-
plause), and the Loard would he with them, because
the Bible is our guide. Our brave soldiers at the
Cape have been ruthlessly slain—they had not with
them the blessing of the Loard. Guns, firearms,
swords are of no avail, but the true word of Goahd.
I am quite confident, and you brethren with me,
that if, say 100 men, would have been sent to the
Cape, armed with nothing but this book—the
Bible—they would have proven conquerors. With
the Bible in hand they would have driven the
enemy to perdition, yea, conquered the world.
Let us therefore, as good Orangemen, stick to the
Bible.” (Great applause).
He went to the Fancy Dress Ball, all un-
known to his wife. He chose the character of
Wolsey, and being of a conscientious turn, and re-
solved to do the thing correctly, sacrificed his
beautiful whiskers and moustache. This evinced
his artistic sense. Wolsey with a cavalry-cut
whisker would have been an anomaly, not to say
an anachronism. He dressed at his barber’s, and
hied away 1 o mix with the giddy throng; the whlie
his wife supposed him to be at the opera. And he
enjoyed himself much—Indeed, muchly. He
walked on air, and trod the mazy waltz with the
fairy step of a zephyr. He was a great thing, this
Cardinal Wolsey—for, although it might be an
anomaly to impersonate that ecclesiastic with
cavalry-cut whiskers adorning his visage, it was
none, surely, to indulge in the dance. So he
capered, and champagned, until the small hours,
when the still small voice of conscience reminded
him that the wife of his bosom was, in all proba-
bility, lying awake, awaiting his return. So
he changed his guise, and adopting his
usual garb, stole homewards, entered the
house by means of that pernicious picklock, the
latchkey, and, stepping as lightly as a burglar
might if clad in shoes, presently stood within the
marital chamber. A night lamp was burning in
the wash-basin. He turned it down, softly and
silently divested himself of his clothes, and then,
crept—guilt tugging at his heart-strings—into
bed. Soon he slept, until some two hours after-
wards, he was awakened by a scream and beheld
his wife flying from the room. He rushed after her,
but terror lent her wings, and she succeeded in es-
caping into the back yard, and scrambled, lightly
accoutred as she was, across the fence which
divided the yard from a neighbour’s premises.
The s°rvant had arisen and was in the kitchen,
into which the terror-stricken woman rushed,
flung herself into Bridget’s arms, and crying “the
man 1” fainted away. In the meantime he,
the unconscious cause, stood craning his
head over the fence, the crisp morning breeze
playing delicately around his lightly-clad and
symmetrical form. “She’s mad!” he muttered—
then he shouted, “Clara!” A shriek from the
kitchen answered, and then he beheld Bridget with
a poker, making for him. “ Don’t you know me,
Bridget?” said he; “I’m Jenkins. Next door, you
know. What’s the matter with my wife?” “The
Lord be with us!” cried Bridget, crossing herself.
“ And what have yez done with your illigant
whiskers, sir?” Then a light came upon Jenkins,
and he knew what was the matter. “Bring
her around, Bridget,” said he, sadly, and with a
slight shudder, for he realised that the gentle
morning breeze was creeping up his spine. So he
returned to his chamber and dressed. And pre-
sently Mrs. Jenkins, wrapped in the neighbour’s
dressing-gown, arrived, accompanied by the neigh-
bour, who carried a stick, and by the neighbour’s
wife, who held fire-tongs in her hand, and Bridget,
who supported the halt-fainting lady. “Look up,
Clara, my love,” cried Jenkins. “’Tis I—your own
hubby.” “ ’Tis his voice,” she murmured, as she
slowly raised her eyes. “ ’Tis he—’tis even he.
But, oh, Charles, what have you done with your
whiskers?” Then he confessed, pleaded for par-
don, and promised to do all and everything in his
power to reproduce his whiskers. The neighbour
and his wife and servant went home, and in less
than a couple of hours the whole neighbourhood
heard the story, and ere the day was out the whole
town had likewise heard of it. And Mrs. Jenkins
went down to Robertson and Moffat's, and bought
a new silk dress and a duck of a bonnet. And
Jenkins is sick and sorry, and you’ve only to say
to him “Wolsey, where are your whiskers ?” to
make him the maddest man this side of the line.
That’s all.
At Invercargill N.Z., Mr. Hornsby (Lake
Country Press) sued Mr. Warren (Lake Waka-
txpu Mail), for libel contained in the following
extract from the Arrowtown correspondent of the
Mail on the occasion of a lecture by plaintiff on
Ireland:—“Ireland has once more to cry ‘save me
from my friends.’ The lecturer appears to have
an insatiable penchant for ‘ blood and murder,’ in-
culcated perhaps in his early youth, as he halls
from Tasmania, and it has before now been re-
marked that his lineage is to be traced in the re-
cord of the Chatham Isles. This accountsifor and
excuses a great deal.” The jury gave a verdict for
£50, the claim having been £1000.
Worth’s work is by no means confined to
the courtly circles; indeed, the women of the lower
world have been for years, and are still, among
his best paying customers. Even the three Em-
presses of Europe do not pay so regardlessly of
expense for his ministrations to their vanity and
beauty as does many an aristocratic Anonyma —
Miss Murphy, an American heiress just married to
Sir Charles Wolseley, had seventy dresses made up
in her bridal trousseau, by one dressmaker—
“ Madge,” of Truth, recommends hot water as the
only cosmetic that should be used for the face —
At an evening entertainment given by Mr. Alfred
Rothschild, Patti sang three songs at £200 each.
Thus the Charters Towers H erald anentits
deadly rival’s chance for election: “Mr. O’Kane is*
without exception, the most hard-working, persis-
tent, and cantankerous man in the colony, and, if
he bo returned, he will make the Hon. S. W.
Griffith, or any other Liberal Leader who may
happen to be in power, do something for his
electorate, or be a perpetual Nemesis to him.’
Heaping coals of fire on your enemy’s head isn’t a
circumstance to this Gahranny’s Noumea cor-
respondent is indignant with the Paris L’Avenir
des Colonies for referring to Higginson in a
highly laudatory tone. Says the Noumea scribe:
“ After pages of the most fulsome praise, which
lead the uninitiated reader to suppose that this
commercial magnate came here with immense
resources and capital, etc.” Now, doesn’t that
remark kinder seem to indicate that in the idea of
Gareanny’s man immense resources and capital
are the sole terrestrial things that deserve fulsome
praise?
“A Lover of True Sport” at Adelong, calls
attention to the wonderfully good shooting ex-
hibited by Tracey at Wagga pigeon match, on
Eriday, and in the sweeps got up on Saturday.
Our correspondent, who regrets to notice that the
local papers passed it by altogether, tells us that
Tracey, who is a lad of 19, working in an alluvial
mine near Adelong, had only shot at 17 pigeons
out of a trap in his life prior to the Wagga match;
and had never met any good company before, or
shot before a crowd of people. On the Friday, in
the big match, he was one of the four who shot
their fifteen (15) birds. He missed his sixteenth
and Mr. Gannon (one of the three who divided)
missed his 17th in shooting off for bets. On Satur-
day, in first sweep, he shot 4 out 5 ; in second
sweep he shot 4 out of 5 ; in third he shot his six
birds, dividing the prize (£5) with Wren, and receiv-
ing £210s., which cost him 23s., (entrance 10s. and
6 birds 13s.). Thus his two days’ performance was
killing 29 out of 32 possible birds, for which he
secured half of one prize which gave him 27s. nett
on that sweep.
“ Strike the soil of France,” said Napoleon
“and armed men will spring forth.” Dig any-
where in Victoria and you’ll get the “colour” of
gold. “ An important discovery of some specks of
gold has been made in a water auger-hole a few
miles from Horsham in the Wimmera district.”
So runs the S. M. Herald telegram. Old Bendigo
or Ballarat men over this way are anxious to see
the fellow who sent that wire, before they die.
Why, even now, after being turned over as many
times as the pages of Pickwick, or an old digger in
the hands of the police, you can take a dust-pan
and a broom to any cross-roads near Sandhurst
and wash gold from the sweepings. Stick one leg
of a compass through the chimney of that triumph
of architecture, the Bendigo Town Hall (this is
sarcastical—would we were there now, if only to
judge whether the plucky little Bailes keeps a
better “ tap ” in the Mayor's room than his prede-
cessor,— and include the “ Model Borough ”
(where the councillors are as polite to one
another as Presbyterian clergymen in Melbourne
when Strong’s case is on the carpet), the lively
“ Kangaroo Flat,” the go-ahead “ White Hills,” and
as many as you like of the “ Whipstick ” in the
circle described by the other, and there you will
find gullies, flats, creeks, and hillocks where grizzly-
bearded, weather-beaten men—sad survivors of the
vast army that delved, drank, profaned, gambled,
and sweltered in the early fifties—still “fos-
sick ” tor a living and recount to passing strangers
the glories of the first rush. Sometimes among the
fine gold in their cradles the welcome presence of
a small nugget is discovered. Then the old stories
of days gone by, when ounces were less thought of
than pennyweights are now, are re-told at the
nearest bar. Digging, and hoping on, the years
pass unnoticed by. The great outside world pul-
sates and throbs, but they heed it not. Still dream-
ing of some day lighting on a “ pile,” they pick and
shovel, sink and wash, till as their turns come a
visitor who will not be denied stands at the doors
of their ragged tents and summons them to join the
“ rush” to that great diggings where, sooner or
later, we all peg out claims.
Madame Theo, a French actress, according
to a New York paper, says that American lovers
lose no time in a hopeless pursuit. They take yes
or no instantaneously —He : “ Which would you
rather kiss —that pug-dog or me ?” “ Wait awhile,”
said she, leaving him—“I’llgo and have another
look at the dog.” — The Echo’s “Dorothea,” in
speaking of a dress, says it is just such a one as
Nell Gwynne, in a quiet mood, or any of Lely's
beauties, would have revelled in. Surely no re-
commendation of a dress to any woman except a
dame aux camtlim —Some far-seeing hereditary
law-makers among the “ Peers ” have discovered
that the agitation tor a slight alteration in marriage
laws is merely a clumsily-concealed attack on
Monarchy. This view has a cloak of probability
thrown round it from the fact that both the Prince
of Wales and the Duke of Albany voted for the
proposed change— Up Milparinka way two ladies
made two “ presentations ” on the same day. When
they got round, they went shopping, leaving the
infants in adjacent cradles. Hearing his child cry,
the father of one left his bar, stepped into the
nursery, walked about with his youngster for two
hours, and, when the Indies returned, was pleased
to hear he'd been nursing the wrong child . A
woman has been appointed chief clerk of the
mortuary statistics at Ottawa, Canada. She will
now have a chance of finding out, for the good or
the sex, how few men die for love, as compared
with the number who die of disordered livers. - ■ • R
came out in Melbourne the other day that a cer-
tain brewer’s traveller, who is still a bachelor, had
been engaged to be married no less than 23 times.-
Punishment follows crime, silently but surely. In®
Mark Lane Express tells of a lady who, inker
ardent pursuit of length of life by fruit diet, re-
cently “ fell from an apple tree, into which she had
climbed at the age of 112 years.” This was pro-
t ably the mother of the girl who was so eternally
fond of cider that she used to eat a case of app*®®
first, and then get her young man to squeese her.
The Acting Russian Consul at PhillipP 0 "
polis has applied to the Turkish Governor tor*
grant of land in the Shipka Pass for the purpos
of building a memorial chapel. It would be mtei-
esting to know how many guns that chapel worn
mount in the next Russo-Turkish war. ...It
hardly accurate on the part of our morning c<m
temporaries, in referring to Tseng and Waddingm
having gone to Walmer Castle to discuss t*
Tonquin question with Granville, to term waim
Castle the seat of Lord Granville. It is merely _
official residence as Lord Warden of the cinq
Ports. . ,
The originator of Wolfe’s Schnapps '
live as long us his splendid preparation P® ,j ar j
its marvellous cures and is recognised as a stan
remedy for the ailments it undertakes to treat.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin N®i vS '
paper Co. (Limited), 21 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.o-
LOVE’S YOUNG DREAM.
BUSTED!
