

ANTHONY HORDERN
AND SONS
9
Haymarket,
Only.
r
\
X
■
a
*TH0NYHORDERN & SOMS, Palace Emporium, Haymarket (only)
(j
’ S n ° W Spring and Summer Goods inal) the newest fashions, styles, and novelties.
Apartments f— k pened over 1000 cases ot Gootls > ex P - & °-> Orient, and other steamers. The following is a list of
fester Goods
•Wdnar
s»s 0
It)
Kts
"‘"i? Goods
Hardware
Patent Medicines
Stationery
Flowers
Dressmaking
Hats and Caps
Mercery
Furniture
Cutlery
Tinware
Wool Goods
Toys
Feathers
Children’s Jackets
Portmanteaus
Tweeds
Carpets
Electroplate
Hollow-ware
Music
School Requisites
’ *£5»
ecollect, we have only one address, and have no connection with any other firm of a similar surname.
warn HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, only.


THB5
G-resit
CEIIHE
OF THB
K
Boot Trai
is
OF SYDNEY,
IS
JOHN HUNTER’
RENOWNED CITY BOOT PALACE.
To ray Patrons and the General P. blic.-It is now a little more than five rears since the City Hoot 1 alace was first opened, and
the success that has attended my endeavours to give satisfaction to my patrons has gradually increased year by year, until it b,
now reached a point far beyond my most sanguine expectations; and I would avail myself ol the opportunity to return thanks for
uast favours assuring you that no effort will be spared on my part to maintain that prestige which he City Boot Palace has no,
Gained I have determined to celebrate the 5th Anniversary of the opening of the above establishment by holding my FIFTH
VNNUAL SALE, on a scale of unparalleled magnitude, at which the goods u ill be marked in p am figures at such prices that must
necessarily effect a speedy clearance. Doubtless there are many who have pleasant reminiscences of the great bargains obtained at
n, v fh-st and subsequent Annual Sales, at the City Boot Palace, 454 Georgo-street .(opposite the Markets), and I can assure them that
the same if not greater, facilities will be afforded them and the general public for obtaining Ladies, Gentlemens, and Childrens
first-class Boots and Shoes, at less than they could he purchased for from the manufacturers.
1 - n n T Pn+n-nt I Irnce Slnrwn
Gent’s Goloshed E.S. Boots, English make
Gent’s Plain E.S. Boots, superior make
Ladies’ Morocco Evening Shoes
from 6s. 6d.
6s. 9d.
3s. 3d.
Ladies’ Patent Press Shoes
Ladies’ Levant E.S. Boots ...
Ladies’ Kid E.S. Boots
from 3s. lid.
„ 4s. 9d.
,, 5s. Ud.
Choice'selection of' Ladies’ Button and Lace Boots. Children’ Boots and Shoes, in endless variety.
li, 5lh An.... S.I. SmSTS.
ronrs ohedientlv, JOHN HUNTER.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Besrs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department,
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally to him
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle.
s d
Gllbey’s very old Brandy, gold top ■ • • «
Hennessy’s V.O. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. o
Hennessy's 3 Star (***) £
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 5
Fine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L o
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) {?
;; ;; I
Hali-llasks'.'. V. •• 1
Hennessy's Draught Pate P er J. mpe T
rial quart . . .. ,, ,, and
PORT WINS.
5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (♦♦*)
Martell’s Very Old ***
Martell's Old .. • ■ • • ••
Marten’s Dark, per Imperial quart
Flasks
5s and
2s Cd and
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
:: ::
Mill Better
Quality— - So- £ £ey quart
Flasks
No! 3.
No. 4,
6s and
3s and
Jg yd and
JAMAICA RUM.
FADE.
Very Finest •• ••4 9
Bed Heart.. .. f n
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart • • • • “ o
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. • • 2s 6d and ~ 3
PEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales 0$d Porters always on hand.
ALBURT (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy quarts 2 6
Ettamogah, red .. *» f J
„ Muscat » » “
„ Reisling »> 2 ®
Fallen's Shiraz .. .. •• p |- nte \ ®
40-year old, Gllbey’s
Celebrated Four Diamond ..
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
No. „
No.
No. ** „
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
4 5 0
\ «*
I *•
SHERRY.
46-year old, Gjlbey.’a ...
Very Finest AmtmfUlSfJo (ypry dry)
Fine AmontlUado ... ...
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry...
Draught Sherry Wine, per
6 I
« (
Eli
j 5 0
Imperial quart j j j
i I
5 1
4 »
4 «
... 4 «
3flM«nd 4 J
Z 5 •
-i!
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddle’8 Ginger Wine
Orange Wine •"
IRISH WHISKY.
Whisky (***) bottled by Burke
Klnahan’s unrivalled L L
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky .
Jameson’s
Dunvi lie’s „ r
Kjnahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart
Jameson's „ »
Flasks „. ,.. ... ... «?
SCOTCH WHISKY,
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend ... ... •••
Lome Highland...
Kllmarnoek •••
Glenlivet ... ...
Glenlivet Whisky, per
Flasks
GIN. __ 4 1
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva.- ”• MC h
Celebrated Key Brsfld, very huge “ft
bottle containing more than a qu ,
Flasks Key Gin
38
.« »'
4s and ■■ ,
:<»
Wand J J
Mfti I
rt jg and 1 1
allowed
Station
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE ,OF ASSORTED
genuine articles will be forwarded _m Sqtiar
5 Quarts KEY GIN,
8 Quarts PALE BRANDY,
1 Quart
5 Quarts „ —,
qflOTAL-
SPIRITS—On receipt of £3< the
packed in a case ;
WTAL- 15 QUARTS: T '"‘ " ' - nuaihLi^Si
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cates are all Kuwanteed of the' jg* P* 1 w
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay* P
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address— ..
P. ft. LARKIN, Wholesale & Refail Wine & Spirit Merchant & W'
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Syd®^'
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.’S
Bon Accord Brass, Copper, Lead & Iron Works,
S and 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
PLUMBERS AW© GAS FITTERS, ART METAL WORKERS. &G. MANUFACTURERS AND
IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS. BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS, DIVING GEAR, C.
IE
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
| SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,
blockings, boots
(with w#A501«i),
REA AIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, Ac.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling, and
fastens the window at
any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &c.
required.
Celebrated CHAMPION HOLLER SKATES, and every other make, a 1 ™**™ * b ° leS ’
and all Accessories. Manufacturers of the PORTABLE TA
Ranges Fitted with Hot and Cold Water, Circulating Apparatus and Boilers.
JMEDALLISTS AND SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS. gr ESTABLISHED 1855.
IHEINRATH AND CO.,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of ,
u. QAV FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
T thA a Salifn SfoSes arfiuformed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
the Australian tmow. . WQrk fQr which it been noted,
Conies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
v cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
ar« employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 19.—New Series
SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 22, 1883.
Price —6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “ THE BULLETIN’
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S. W.—THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETIN’S" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN" IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1883.
Trial By Jury.
To convert Trial by Jury into a farce was
one of the bizarre ideas of Messrs W. S.
Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan. What that
clever couple effected in sport, by an exertion
of talent, others are effecting in earnest by
sheer stupidity. The process is in full pro-
gress in Sydney, under the very noses of our
able and august Judges, whose sensitiveness
to what tends to bring the administration
of justice into contempt appears to be of a
limited and particular kind. Touch a Judge,
and the judicial nerves are in a tumult of
agitation directly. The immediate result
is an abnormal cohesion, evidenced by
brother Judges “sticking to” one another.
But so long as one avoids this. Justice
may be mauled about indifferently, with-
out her Ministers appearing to be en-
dowed with consciousness. Long-suffering
has reduced the public into a hope-
less acquiescence in many of the most
disheartening perversions of the adminis-
tration of justice. Nothing, probably, will
ever reconcile people to the gross anomalies
and desperate evils which have made law a
burlesque and travesty of justice. But the
number of persons whose evil fate it is to
actually experience what an appeal to the
courts involves is inconsiderable compared
with the gross population. And until a man
actually becomes involved in the intricacies
of a law-suit, the whole affair strikes him as
a forbidding maze which he would do well
to shun, and which can only be compre-
hended by a recondite system of studies for
which plain men have neither time nor
inclination. The faith of Englishmen has
been pinned on trial by jury; and this not
without strong reason. It is comparatively
easy to learn the history of past periods.
These are moulded into digests easy of com-
prehension. But to appreciate the actual
conditions prevailing at the time when a
man is himself among the makers of history,
is not so easy. Each has to frame a system
of induction and deduction for himself —to
collect, sift, and appreciate facts in their due
relation to current events and future in-
fluences. That trial by jury has been of
enormous value in past times is impressed
upon every man’s mind. That it still con-
tinues to be the most valuable among all the
varied machinery of law is equally indubi-
table. But in how great a degree its present
value has diminished from its past useful-
ness, is not so readily comprehended.
* * *
Every English youth has learned with
admiration the heroic stand which British
juries have at different times made against
various aggressions by monarchial and privi-
leged assailants on the public liberties. The
influence exerted by resolute men in the
jury-box has, on many momentous occa-
sions, controlled and defeated the rage of
would-be oppressors, and the complaisance
of courtesan judges. But, as we approach the
present day, these instances become infre-
quent. It is not too much to say that judges
have been better, and juries worse—broadly
speaking. The explanation seems to be that,
with an increasingly settled condition of
political life, the temptation to judges to
please a monarch or a class has diminished,
while, simultaneously, the easing off of ten-
sion has abated the heroic spirit among the
people and has substituted a preference for
comfortable expediency for a devotion to
principle. While the nation was yet struggl-
ing for emancipation from the thraldom
imposed by semi-despotic monarchs and a
wholly despotic oligarchy, the few rights
which enabled it to give some effect to its
resistance were jealously preserved and reli-
giously estetmed. But once that battle
seemed won, watchfulness relaxed, careless-
ness supervened, and what had been re-
garded as a splendid privilege and an in-
valuable right, came to be looked upon as a
commonplace function and a wearisome
obligation.
It is a matter of common knowledge, at
any rate in legal circles, that in New South
Wales the average jury does not represent
the average intelligence of the com-
munity. When the name of any well-
known citizen does crop up in conneo
tion with a jury, it is not usually, as might
be expected, as foreman, but in connection
with a fine for non-attendance. And even
that is so occasional as regards men held in
any consideration, either by reason of their
business capacity, their public prominence,
or their known culture, that it is generally
believed a plan has been devised to escape
being summoned on a jury at all. Theore-
tically, the plan of making up the jury lists
seems accurate and comprehensive enough.
But people, observing that the men who
would be most serviceable are just the men
who never enter the box, have come to the
conclusion that there are occult means by
which a reluctant citizen can with a little
foresight manage so that he shall never be
cast in a “ panel.” By whatever process the
result is achieved, its effects are apparent
enough. The jury-boxes are ordinarily
tenanted by persons of inferior intelligence;
and cases involving the most complex con-
siderations on the one hand, or the most
vital public interests and rights on the other,
are determined by men who have neither
enjoyed the mental training which would
enable them to comprehend the one, nor the
elevation of mind which would have quali-
fied them to perceive the significance of the
other. We would not be understood to cast
obloquy upon those who now discharge the
functions of jurors. On the contrary, we
hold them in higher regard than those who
neglect about the only public duty which
presses upon the convenience and the pocket
of private persons. The jurymen who enter
the box must be credited with discharging
their functions to the best of their know-
ledge and abilities. That these are defective
or limited is no fault of theirs* It is no
blame to them if they misconceive the re-
lation of facts, or blunder in decisions. The
fault clearly lies at the doors of those who,
gifted with better talents, or favoured with
better education, abandon the post of duty
and honour. But it would be vain to at-
tempt to scold recusant citizens into the
jury-box. Practical wisdom teaches that it
is requisite to take men as they are, and
Society as it is, when devising any process of
reformation or improvement.
The vital question is, how to get the better
class of citizens into the jury-box. It might
be effected by compulsion, or by offering
inducements. The existing system pro-
fesses to be compulsory, and has broken
down. As a matter of fact, the compulsion
is nominal. Its exercise is entrusted to the
Judges, whose anxiety to protect their
Courts from contempt, does not, strangely
enough, take the direction of insisting that
the very cream of the intelligence of the
community shall co-operate in administer-
ing Justice. It is certainly singular that
Judges, while professing so acute an anxiety
lest contempt of Court should depreciate the
regard for justice, shut their eyes to the
fact that inferior juries must lower the esti-
mation in which the justice meted out by
the Courts is held. The lower the average
intelligence of the juries, the more perverse
and blundering verdicts are likely to accrue,
and the less assurance will there be that the
spirit of justice shall prevail over the letter
(which killeth) of the law. Perhaps the indif-
ference and immobility of Judges with res-
pect to this matter may be partly attributable
to the circumstance that illiterate jurymen of
humble social standing are more apt than
others to accept with unquestioning plia-
bility the dicta of the Judges themselves, than
men standing on an equal intellectual and
social level with the Judges, would be.
• • •
If this be the explanation of the tacit
acquiescence of their Honors in the system,
the fact is unfortunate. There is an invari-
able tendency of professionals and officials
to magnify their office, and to exalt the
forms of their ministrations above the
essence of what these forms are designed to
preserve. A jury is looked to to correct this
tendency of professional lawyers, by leaning
towards abstract and natural justice. And,
when the jury-box is almost constantly sur-
rendered to a class of men who, in default
of having sufficiently cultivated their powers
of ratiocination, emit in their verdicts mere
echoes of the judicial summing up, law is
certain to prevail over justice to an un-
wholesome extent. Few laymen are aware
of the practice followed with respect
to persons who absent themselves from
the jury-box when summoned. From time
to time the Press records the fact
that such and such persons have been fined
for non-attendance. The penalty seldom
exceeds two pounds sterling, and as a
matter of fact there are numbers of business
men who infinitely prefer forfeiting that
amount, and much more, to sacrificing the
time requisite for attending Court to the
disadvantage of their own'affairs. Thus,
while the guinea per day for remuneration,
which is allowed to jurymen, serves as an
inducement to mechanics, petty clerks, and
the small fry of the community generally,
and the fine is to them a formidable affair,
to the more substantial class of persons the
fine is comparatively nothing, and the
guinea per day a mockery in the way of
compensation. But even the fine is often
reduced to a shadowy menace. The machi-
nery for recovering the amount of the
penalty is of the clumsiest kind. The offen-
der has not to put his hand in his pocket at
once. At certain periods, lists of the de-
faulters in attendance are placed before the
Judges, and the persons sentenced to pay
are called upon to show cause why the pen-
alties shall not be enforced. The proceed-
ings take place in private, and we do not re-
member ever to have seen a report published
in any paper. At his discretion the Judge
requires payment to be made, or remits the
penalty; and it is said that very trumpery
excuses sometimes serve to relieve offenders
from payment.
* ♦ ♦
Thus, in the absence of sufficient public
spirit to induce men to voluntarily discharge
the functions of jurymen, when they can
MR. JOHN BRINSMEAD.


OTICE TO THE TRADE.
NOW LANDING.
Ex GULF ot MEXICO—
3 tons Black Curled Horsehair
3 ditto Purified English Feathers
I ditto ditto Eider Down
3t cases Single and Double Bedsteads
44 ditto Single and Double cots.
Ex ANGLO-NORMAN-
54 cases Black and Brass Mounted Half-tester
Bedsteads, new designs
10 bales Fancy Striped Ticking.
Ex MORIALTA—
83 cases 4-post Bedsteads, ali sizes
10 ditto Bowcliffe’s Wove Wire Spring Mat-
10 bales 38-in. Forlar. .
Ex GULF of CARPENTARIA-
10 cases Black and Nickel-plated Bedsteads,
speciality
3 tons Black Curled Hair
4 bales Cotton Ticks
3 ditto Bed Lacc.
Ex ONEIDA—
100 cases Walter Haywood’s Wood-seated Chairs
30 ditto Largo Rockers, Cane Seats, ditto
30 ditto Grecian Cane seat ditto
30 ditto Nurse Rockers, Cane Seat ditto
10 ditto Wove Wire Spring Mattresses.
Ex SIR WALTER RALEIGH-
87 cases Assorted Bedsteads
60 ditto Austrian Bentwood Chairs
10 ditto EnglishjBedroom Chairs.
Ex GULF of ST. VINCENT—
30 cases Toilet Glasses
3 tons Curled Hair.
Ex SALAMIS—
74 cases Half-tester Bedsteads
10 ditto Folding Chair Bedsteads
10 bales of White Cotton Flock.
Ex EYVOR —
750 bales best cleaned Java Kapok.
Ex CYNISCA-
10 cases Black and Gold Bedsteads
15 ditto French Bedsteads
5 ditto Rowclilfe’s Wove Wire Mattresses
30 ditto Four-post Iron Bedsteads
10 ditto Children’s Cots.
Ex GLENFINART—
10 bales Feathers
30 ditto Curled Vegetable Fibre
30 cases 3ft. 61n. Stump Bedsteads
40 ditto Bedsteads, all sorts and sizes.
ExIMBERHORNE—
44 cases Bedsteads, lin. and 3in., all sizes.
Ex CEDRIC THE SAXON—
30 cases Austrian Bentwood Chairs.
Ex ALTCAR-
103 packages, consisting of
Wove Wire Mattresses
Bedsteads
Curled Fibre, &c., &c.
Ex CHRISTIANA THOMPSON, to arrive-
54 cases of Iron Bedsteads
10 ditto Brass ditto.
Ex AIKSHAW, from New York-
150 cases of Chairs.
Ex PHAS1S —
73 cases assorted Bedsteads.
Ex HERE WARD-
10 oases of Nickel-plated H.T. Bedsteads.
The above 18 shipments having been specially
selected and purchased by me for prompt cash
during my recent visit to America and England at
exceedingly low prices, and I can offer you any of
the above goods at less than auction-room prices.
Thanking >, ou for past favours, and soliciting a
continuance of the same,
I remain.
Yours faithfully,
J. LAWLER,
608, Georgc-street, Sydney.
HE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL INVESTMENT
AND BUILDING COMPANY (Limited).
HEAD OFFICE : 309 PITT-STREBT, SYDNEY
Branch Office: Montague-street, Goulbux-n.
BANKo
m
aw?
V
DIRECTORS;
W. W. J. O’Reilly, M.D., Chairman; E. Hogber
Esq. ; John Nobbs, Esq. ; G. J. Wells, Esq. ;
Wm. Davies, Esq. ; W. S. Foxall, Esq.;
H. G. Swyny, Esq.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED TO ANY EXTENT.
6 per cent, per annum allowed on deposits for 6
months.
7 per cent, per annum allowed on deposits for 13
months.
£5 per cent, pea - annum is allowed by this Com-
pany on current accounts.
In addition to the interest allowed, depositors
participate in the profits.
H. G. SWYNY,
Managing Director.
Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine,
REGISTERED.
THAT tested and infallible remedy for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints aris-
ing from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia, Nerv-
ous Headache, and Toothache, Indigestion, Loss of
Appelite, General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for alcohol. By its richness in blood-making
properties, it builds up the whole system.
Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere.
Prepared solely by MARSHALL BROTHERS,
106 Market-street, Sydney.
Wholesale Agents— Elliott Brothers, and
E. Prosser & Co.
Da. T. B. CLUNE
HAS COMMENCED the PRACTICE of his
PROFESSION, and may be Consulted at his
residence,
18 College-street, Hyde Park.
JOHN P. COWLES,
Tea Inspector , Packer, & [Shipper,
FOOCHOW, CHINA.
Coughs and Colds.
T
HE Best Cure for the above Hum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
W PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6b. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS'
Siidi Bottle Dejiiitii
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. w. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
ScL.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot bo surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VBRDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s, per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
I! W001!
Season 1883-84.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
SYDNEY.
THE WOOL GROWERS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUEENSDAND.;
rapid approach of the incoming wool
season reminds us to tender our thanks for
the very liberal support which has been accorded
to us during past years ; and while doing so we
take the opportunity to solicit a continuance of
the same support in the future which we have
enjoyed in the past.
On referring to our circular issued last year we
tlnd that we therein anticipated a large increase in
the quantity of wool which would be sold iu these
colonies, and the result proved that we were cor-
rect. We also predicted that the prices obtained
in the colonies would be in favour of those growers
who sold in the
LOCAL MARKET,
and this also has been fully borne out by facte.
We are also glad to say that this market all
through the last season was extremely active, and
the large quantity of wool sold proves that
SYDNEY
is fast becoming, what it is destined to be in future,
the
WOOL MARKET OF AUSTRALIA.
We have therefore no hesitation in urging upon
growers the advantage of first offering their wool
here, where buyers from all the manufacturing
countries of Europe and America attend to supply
their wants from
FIRST HANDS.
Failing sales in Sydney, we are prepared to ship to
our London Agents, making liberal cash advances.
When sales are effected,
OUR CHARGES
are made on as low a scale as possible, and all wool
offered in our Warehouses, and not sold, is subject
only to the nominal charge of
ONE SHILLING PER RALE,
which covers receiving, delivering, weighing, and
storage accommodation.
Our Warehouses are partiularly well lighted, and
are most conveniently arranged for the display of
wool, in any quantity, to the greatest advantage.
The most careful attention is given to the valuing
of every lot, both large and small, so that nothing
will be sold under the full market value.
Way-bills and all further information forwarded
upon application.
HILL, CLARK AND CO.,
WOOL WAREHOUSES,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
Offices : 1U9 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
make money by shirking; in the absence of
sufficient penalties to compel the well-to-do
men to attend whether it suit them or not;
and by the influence of the same induce-
ments and penalties, operating with real
force upon persons differently cicumstanced,
the system of trial by jury has become es-
sentially and misoheviously perverted. A
man is still, in many cases, tried by his
peers, in a sense scarcely contemplated.
But intricate disputes, complicated by in-
volved and nice distinctions, and questions
most stupendous principles,
are constantly determined by the crude
conceptions of men quite incapable of ap-
preciating the issues placed before them.
• • ♦
As if this were not evil sufficient, a new
terror is being added to litigation by a prac-
tice now becoming of every-day occurrence,
and apparently viewed without disapproba-
tion by the Judges. It has become quite a
common practice for jurymen, when sitting
to hear protracted cases, to apply for in-
crease of remuneration. Already, the com-
plications of legal procedure are such that
in numerous cases the real conflict is not so
much for a decision respecting the nominal
cause of litigation, as to determine by which
party the costs shall be paid. The frequent
practice of leading barristers in accepting
fees without giving attendance, has com-
pelled litigants to double-bank their re-
tainers. As has been recently remarked,lead-
ing barristers have come to regard a retainer
with its accompanying fees, as not so much
an engagement to serve the party who pays
as an undertaking not to serve his opponent.
This is clearly nothing different from a
system of blackmail. Pay me so much, and
I may lend you help : neglect to pay me, and
I may swoop down to aid your antagonist.
“The Children of the Mist” could scarcely
have been more explicit than senior counsel.
But when to this a new form of blackmail,
demanded by the very jury, is superadded,
the corruption of Courts of Justice seems to
have reached its highest taint. Justice which
should be equal, cheap, and expeditious, be-
comes the contrary—not merely in some
respects, but in every particular. The un-
happy litigant, fairly embarked in the trou-
bled sea of legal contention, finds fresh
extortion where he had centred possibly his
last, faint, lingering hopes of substantial
justice. The jury respectfully apply for
doubled fees. His Honor and the counsel on
either side give the application a benevolent
reception, due probably to old and cherished
recollections on the bench, and on the part
of the bar to that fellow-feeling which is said
to make men “wondrous kind.” The
wealthy suitor concedes the demand with
graceful alacrity. What can the poorer
suitor do but endeavour to emulate his
adversary’s complaisance ? To refuse would
be to figure as a mean curmudgeon to the
very men in whose eyes he is desirous of
appearing a fair dealer. The thing is a gross
indecency, and a crying wrong. A juryman
is judge for the time. Yet it seems that not
one of our salaried Judges has yet been
struck with any sense of impropriety in his
unofficial colleagues iu the jury-box, in the
midst of a trial, interrupting its progress to
demand that the litigants shall consent to
double his salary!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Reckless Generosity.
It is time there was a step put to it. The extra-
vagance of our legislators must be crushed. Wo
should not so much object to it, only that we see
them, in a spirit of romantic generosity, sacrific-
ing their own Interests in order to enrich others.
Take, for instance, this last Quixotic prank of the
Premier—his promise to put on the estimates a
pension of £25 a year for old Tom Born, of Tumut,
the last survivor of the Hovell-Hume explora-
tion party in 1824. Why, how much is £25 a year ?
it is very close upon ten shillings a week. Just
fancy giving an old man ten shillings a week to
riot and revel upon, simply because he happened,
long ago, to assist in opening up a country that
then was wrapped in gloom, and is now the finest
in Australia! If we go on at this reckless
rate, we shall soon be accused of grati-
tude. And, of course, for a Government
to be grateful is to be absurd. It is to be hoped Mr.
Stuart will be induced to reconsider his rash pro-
mise. He must have made It under the influence
of excitement; or, perhaps, it was his national
impulsiveness which made him do it. This is the
great drawback in having a Scotchman at the head
of affairs. He is apt to be too freehanded, and
fling around money as carelessly as if it was thistle-
down. Surely the pension of eighteenpence a
week which we are now paying old Margaret,
the aboriginal Queeu of Lake Macquarie, is enough
for the colony to be saddled with, without this new
drain on our resources. Tom Born must be a very
old man by this time; and, in the natural course of
things, would probably die very soon if he were
left alone. But if he hears about this proposed
pension, he will as sure as death go on living for-
ever, and be a perpetual inoubus on the com-
munity, just as all other pensioners are. Who has
over known a survivor of Waterloo die, except in
a newspaper paragraph ? Nobody, We will give a
case of whisky to anybody who will bring us the
corpse of one. Oh, we know what we are talking
about. Tom Boyd will be able to have two meals
a day and live luxuriously in a stringy-bark gun-
yah, if ho gets this pension. He will become ener-
vated with it. Ho will lose that rugged indepen-
dence of spirit which it should be the aim of every
democratic Government to cherish among its
people. He will probably riot in tobacco and revel
in ram every time tils birthday eomes round. He
will degenerate into an effeminate Epicurean—a
rose-leaf Sybarite. Surely Mr. Stuart could not
have reflected on all these consequences when he
allowed himself to be persuaded into making such
a prodigal promise ? But we can plainly see that
our rulers are far too good-hearted. Their oars
are always open to the appeals of every stranger,
while they allow themselves to go, as it were,
hungry. A few banquets, testimonials, Lake Mac-
quarie-like picnics, river frontages, railway
dodges, bridges agin their own door, and that is all
they want. And yet they give eighteenpence a
week to an old black woman, and are on the verge
of giving ten shillings a week to an old white pio-
neer! Noble, miraculous self-denial, but very poor
political economy. They should follow the ex-
ample of the English Government, which showers
coronets and perpetual pensions of thousands a
year on generals who looked at Egyptian battles
through a spy-glass, and begrudes crutches to the
poor devils of soldiers .who were lamed in fighting
them.
Democracy.
There was never a great principle that had to
contend against such odds as Democracy. It’s
soundness may be indexed by the number of times
it has been—in the argot of the P.K.—knocked oyer
the ropes and come up smiling. But the actual
dangers that overtook it in 1815, and the possible
dangers predicted fifteen years later by De
Tocquevtlle, are inconsequential when com-
pared with the real sleepers laid across its rails in
America. There is a State there called Pennsyl-
vania. Of the treaty made between its founder
and the Indians, Voltaire pleasantly remarked;
“It was the only treaty made without an oath—
and the only one kept.” So the State Legislature
of the Quaker settlement has kept up its reputa-
tion for fair dealing by being the rowdiest over
which the “ Bird o’ Freedom ” spreads its compre-
hensive wings. And this brings us whence we
started. At the late prorogation, a trans-Atlantic
Donnybrook was on the sideboard. It remained
there until one of the members climbed into the
gallery and heaved a mattrass on the “ Speaker's ”
head, which reached him just as another legis-
lator finished pouring a pitcher of iced water
down his back. Had a fair interval been al-
lowed between the acts, Mr. Gentner (that
was the Speaker’s name) might have stood it,
but hisl dignity was ruffled'by the short time
allowed him for serious thought. Then he
vacated the chair and went down the steps like a
boy on a slide. It was, perhaps, as well he left at
once, for a member named Mackin had already
started to fetch him. They met. Mackin was
nine stone—the Speaker seventeen. Besides this
the latter had sufficient “ momentum ” on at the
time to shunt the Pillars of Hercules, so, whe~
they embraced, Mackin became the Speaker. He
did not say much, but what he remarked was to
the point. At this stage some fresh life was intro-
duced into the debate by the strangers in the
gallery electing to Join; in the argument. They
were led by a coloured person—a “nigger” the
apprehending constable somewhat coarsely called
him—who, while endeavouring to form a strong
coalition, had a bucket of flour thrown over him. As
a European never appears to less advantage than
when looking through a top-coat of soot, so an
African feathered with flour hits a real grievance.
This, however, was no excuse for the man’s stat-
ing his case in the way he did, by up-ending the
Government and rendering the Leader of the
Opposition unpresentable. Over the subsequent
proceedings we draw a veil. It is from America—
the home of Democracy—that Democracy has
most to fear.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“J.R. ’(Geelong): Yes, very acceptable
“ Demo ”: Your par., though as true as gospel, is a
good deal too ill-natured to print now that the
man is dead—“Quid pro Quo 1 ’: Glad tohearfrom
you at greater length —“ A Subscriber ”: Don’t
know. And sensible people don’t trust money in
the hands of parties or whom they know nothing...
“B.D.": Idea excellent. Sketch will have to be
redrawn by us. .“One who was had ” (Melbourne):
Your suggestion has been attended to “ Q.”
(Melbourne): Very good — “E.W.S.”: Yourstate-
ment appears to us to be a well—an Archieforbeser
— “W.L.” (Kunagong) : Many thanks “Glass
Houses’ 1 : Yes, old man, we plead guilty ...“The
Only Highland Officer Present”; Your letter will
appear next week....“ W.J.B,”: Excellent. Next
week—“Doctor” : To hand “F J.” : Your
stylo will stand improving “ A.G.K.”: You give
no particulars. We there fa re give two lines: we
cannot load our columns with inflated verbosity...
“T.” (Hodgkinson River): Thanks, but we’ve al-
ready had the information “ R.S.N.”: Yes, glad
to hoar of it “ H.W.” (Murrumburrah): Not
the right style — “ Goulburn”: Not very valuable.
— “Gem”: You guessed rightly: the basket
“Libertas”: Very well written, but too lengthy
for us—“Slow Youns Man”; Glad to have your
disclaimer. Will perhaps use “J.C.” (Surry
Hills): If the bov had had no previous tuition the
letter is good. The proper authorities will assign
reasons tor the step taken — “ British Mechanic ”:
Should the problem of aerial navigation ever be
solved, the factor of weight will be the principal
one in the solution—“Goulburn”: If you only
knew the people who “ran” that “BallaratArt
Union,” you would have put your money in “ con-
sols,” where, “it the swindle vos small, the profits
vos sartain.”
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
In the Horwitz Divorce Case, the jury,
after deliberating, found the respondent and
co-respondent had committed adultery as al-
leged in the petition, and that the petitioner
had not condoned such adultery. They
further found that the petitioner had not
been guilty of adultery, as alleged by the
respondent, and that he had not been guilty
of cruelty towards her. In short, they
found all the issues in favour of the peti-
tioner. The damages against Mr. Solomon
they assessed at £5000. if the money is not
forthcoming the co-respondent goes to quod
for twelve months.
A match was played at Parramatta on
Saturday last between the Alfred and Arundel
cricket clubs, which resulted in an easy victory for
the former by 43 runs. Scores: Alfreds, 98 (of
which Mavbury made 45) ; Arundels, 43. A re-
markable feature of the match was the bowling of
Maybury, who lowered the whole of his opponents’
wickets for 23 runs.
Take Hop Bitters three times a day, and
you will have no doctors’ bill to pay. See.


A CELEBRATED CASE.
CHIPS FROM THE EVIDENCE,
Mr. Howitzer once dis-
covered money in his wife’s
stocking, which he knew
that he (Mr. H.) never put
there himself.
The father of the nice young man as-
serts that his son always was a shy young
man.
He once took the management
of the house into his own hands,
and brought home some eggs in
his pocket, one of which broke.
He had his own ideas, too, on the
subject of “breaking her into his
ways.”
A ' i . , ■, . i — u u 11! 11 in—»
On one occasion he deprived her of
her false teeth; and then she was
obliged to signal the nice young man
opposite, in the deaf and dumb lan-
guage, to go for a locksmith.
A bold artillery-man frequently saw
and heard things he never before sa'vy
or heard the like of,
All things considered, therefore, Mr. Howitzer felt justified in suspecting some-
thing wrong; and so he took up the role of Othello, with certain variations.
Mrs. Howitzer, on the contrary,
affirms that she has been frivolous but
not naughty; that Mi - . H. was suspici-
ous and cruel. Here, for instance, ac-
cording to her account, was his manner
of celebrating her birthday.
There could be no impropriety in
merly looking at the scenery at Sand-
ringham.
Mr, Howitzer also noticed with pain, that
his wife was addicted to going for groceries
at unreasonable hours.
The nice young man opposite—
Mr. Simon Simple, alias “Jack-in-
the-box,”
Mr. Solomon Howitzer’s suspicions
were first aroused by a piece of red
flannel in the window (in point of fact,
one of his old night-caps), hung there
by bis wife as a signal to


R
OBERT BUTCHER
(Late William Long),
& CO.
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
THE HIGH SCHOOL, HOBART, TASMANIA
Rector: The Rev. R. D. Poulett-Harris, M.A ’
Trinity College, Cambridge. Headmaster: Mr. Ed'
Edmondson, Christ Church, Oxford. The salubrity
of the Tasmanian climate, combined with the high
standard maintained by the Council of Education
has brought the collegiate advantages of the colony
prominently under the notice of Australian
parents. The High School occupies the head place
in the degree lists. It surpasses all colonial educa-
tional establishments in the healthiness and beauty
of its situation, which is upon a slope bordering
the Queen’s Domain, and in the vicinity of the
Cricket Ground and Saltwater Baths. The T.S.N.
Co. issue return tickets to scholars at single fares.
Prospectus and terms may be obtained from Mr,
JAMES B. CUNNINGHAM, 130 Elizabeth-street,
Sydney, or from the Rector.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 3rd September, 1888.
TENDERS FOR TAR-PAVING AND REPAIRS.
TENDERS are invited for tar-paving and re-
pairs at the Botany Public School. Plans and
specifications may be seen, and forms of tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for tar-paving and
repairs, Botany Public School,” must be lodged
with the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m. on
MONDAY, the 24th September, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to except the
lowest or any tender. „ _
G. H. REID.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 6th September, 1883.
TENDERS FOR REPAIRS AND IMPROVE-
MENTS,
TENDERS are invited for Repairs and Improve-
ments, at the Coogee Public School.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at tne office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Repairs and Im-
provements, Coogee Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, Depart*
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a m. on Wednesday, the 26tb September, 1888.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR GIRLS, SYDNEY.
THE Course of Instruction in the Public High
School for Girls, Sydney, will be as follows;—
1. Latin.*
2. Elementary Mathematics.
3. Modern Languages—French, German.*
4. English Language and Literature; Elocution.
5. History.
6. Physical Science.
7. Drawing—Freehand and Perspective.
8. Music.
9. Cookery.
10. Needlwork.
* Optional.
The hours of instruction, will be 9.15 a.m. to 12.15
p.m., and from 1.15 to 8.15 p.m.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 12th September, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR BOYS, SYDNEY
THE Course of Instruction in the Public High
School for Boys, Sydney, will be as tollowBi—
1. Classics, Latin, Greek*
2. Mathemathics
3, Modern Languages, French, German*
4. English Language and Literature, Elocution
5. History
6.. Physical Science
7. Drawing—Geometrical and Perspective.
* Optional.
The hours of instruction will be from 9.15 a.m.
to 12.15 p.m., and from 1.15 to 3.15 p.m.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 12th September, 1883.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 11th September, 1883.
TENDERS FOR BOUNDARY WALL.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of a
boundary wall at the Camperdown Public
School. Plans and specifications may be seen, and
forms of tender obtained at the office of the De-
partment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Boundary Wall,
Camperdown Public School,” must be lodged with
the Acting Under Secretary, Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on MON-
DAY, the 1st October, 1883.
The Minister doe 3 not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any tender. , „
6. H. REID.
T> AGING SEASON, 1883.
E. E. JONES,
INTERNATIONAL HOTEL, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
ENCOURAGED by past successes, I beg to
announce that I intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
of the above, on the usual distribution.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Address—
“JANITOR,”
Care of E. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
N.B.—For the convenience of Town Clients, a
Letter Box will be found in the bar.
DIVORCE AT DARLINGHURST.
We know how this must be written. Deli-
cately, as though With an agate-pointed stylus on
the leaf of a lily. You shall have, in this little
sketch, something airily descriptive, something
that will act as a literary mind-tonic—as a brain-
Invigorator. Confident as we are in our powers
to instruct, in our ability to amuse, we have no
hesitation in recommending this article to the
perusal of all those afflicted with ailments which
require things rubbed in; and this paper, we are
sure, will be found equally efficacious to those
sufferers to whom heretofore the venerable blue
pill and the antiquated black draught afforded
either a transient or imaginary relief. To persons
of delicate constitutions, to whom solid food has
been long a stranger, we can confidently recom-
mend this sketch as an unexampled appetiser. To
picnic parties it will be found an unrivalled instru-
ment for dispelling the tedium on board boat prior
to landing; and It will also be found to make an
excellent dressing for salad. [Ill—Ed. B.] To
those who are afflicted by love or cast down by
passion, this article is equally recommended; and
we may add that It will make an unrivalled polish
for harness. Under these circumstances, we have
no hesitation in recommending this sketch to the
public of the colony; and we cordially invite all
those who have been, after reading it, either medi-
cinally benefited or morally elevated, to forward
a sworn statement of the same to the editor of this
journal, authenticated by the hand and seal, if not
of their superiors, at least of their several consuls.
* * ♦
You know that Court up there, with the
spiked dock, about which the phantom of felony
has lingered—the spirit of murder played. We
have seen strange things come to pass in that
temple of justice. We have beheld men sentenced
to death in that dock; men sentenced for life; and,
strange enough to say, what is more horrible still,
men sentenced to be flogged. Prisoners who re-
ceive a death sentence usually gaze hurriedly up
at the skylight, then confusedly round the Court,
and are led away as in a dream; those who receive
a life sentence, on the other hand, knowing the
Judge can do no more, glare fury—deadly fury—at
him, and not unfrequently entertain the Court
with a few profanatory periods relative to the eyes
and limbs of His Honor, which, we are bound with
grief to admit, are generally exceedingly well re-
ceived. Another phase, though, is with the man
who is sentenced to be flogged. The moment he
hears his sentence, his little beads of eyes seem to
start out of his head; he gets red and white, hot
and cold; and while the perspiration of terror
pours down his face, he makes an effort to say
something. He tries once, and twice, and thrice,
and each time comes only from bis throat a hoarse
click,” betraying the fact that his tongue is
cloven to the roof of his mouth by terror. He is
an unpleasant sight, this one; so unpleasant that
we’ll change the slide.
• •
No criminals now. No beetle-browed
Judge, In a robe of scarlet and ermine; no black
cap hidden away under the sandwich-box; no per-
fume of fustian, nor odour of prison perspiration.
Not at all. What then ? You shall hear. “ Behind
the rail,” a sprinkling of the combined washed
and unwashed, combed and uncombed, shod and
unshod. A curious mixture. The dirty habitud
and the clean clerk side by side; and the monte-
man and the “ masher ” cheek by jowl. In front:
a picture. Here it is to be read, like a fairy photo.
Look on the bench. You will see there a Judge
with a beard, leaning bis ear on the palm of his
hand. This is Mr. Justice Wlndeyer. He has a
pair of eyes (we don’t note this as an extraordin-
ary fact) rather close together, and of a disconcert-
ing keenness. He is also the possessor of a head of
hair which would be a credit to a Judge of any
country—even Madagascar—and a smile known to
the initiated as “ number 2.” It has been remarked
that every Judge has his little peculiarity. Sir
James Martin’s mild eccentricity in letting the
Press down gently is known from pole to pole, and
on each side, too. Judge Dowling’s chief charac-
teristic is the perpetration, during brief intervals,
of jokes which circus-clowns have died of; and
when Judge Josepbson was on the bench, and a
knotty point cropped up, he used to adjourn the
Court for a couple o i hours on the ground of indis-
position, and run round the corner into Macquarie-
street to well, to ruminate. This is historic.
Thus, then, Judge Windeyer’s little peculiarity is
to place his right ear on his right palm and to look
right through a person. And he often smiles when
he does so. That is, probably, because he remem-
bers that when he looked through a certain
eminent counsel how very little he found inside
him 1 To our mind, when in this position His Honor
has a picturesque appearance. It is a cunning pose,
anyway, for it not only enables him to rake a wit-
ness, as it were, fore and aft, but to get a bird’s-eye
view of the jury, a glimpse at the co-respondent,
and, what is more to the purpose, a full vision of
•‘the innocent creature whose character is thus
wantonly assailed.” It is well-known—and there
will be no soup-tureen broader than His Honor’s
pmilft when he reads this—that he has a sympathetic
heart. Let’s now risk penal ser vitude for life by
introducing a little jingle. (Good-bye, mother and
Bister; come every week and brighten our irons.)
Now:—
We do not say for whom his heart
Is mostly sympathetic.
But we have heard (a word apart)
It is for fays (esthetic;
Those “somethings” that—to put it clear—
eta n charm the eye and charm the ear.
Why not ? E’en though he did soft glide
Through the judicial portal;
He can’t deny, for all his “side,”
And all his robes, he’s mortal I
And were he but ar-haberdasher,
We’d say he was cm awfvl masher.
As it is (our Pegasus now being busy with the
horse trough), we merely shrug a few of our
shoulders and pass on.
m * *
Passons— awfully like French, English is;
is it not ? To the left below the Judge is a little
niche labelled “Crier.” On this porter’s perch is
seated a gentleman with a black beard, a braided
surtout, and a wandering eye. This is Mr. Abra-
hams. the utter, who, we are given to understand,
is in public life a bailiff and In private life a banker.
He has been twenty-five years at the same game;
yet up to the time of going to Press he delivers the
oath as follows:—“The hevidunce you shall give
in this case shall be the trooth, the ole trooth, and
nothink but the trooth; so ’elp you gord.” Then,
woe to the man who kisses his thumb Instead of
the “ Book.” On one occasion, Abe immortalized
himself. It was in this way: One day, just after
an unexpected adjournment in the Clontarf trial, a
gentleman dashed hurriedly into Court, and said:
“ Is the Judge gone ?—I want to see him on busi-
ness.” Then says Abrahams: “ Well, young man,
I ain’t ezackerly the Judge—but what can I do for
you?” The party went out and wept.
♦ * ♦
Now, listen. At the end of the table is a
female figure. Not a figure that you often see,
but something that you always dream of. Hold
your breaths, and you shall have it. A lithe, sym-
metrical form, encased in a brocaded satin dress of
surprising cdchet. Sleeves so tight that you can
fancy you see the arms beneath, and are for the
while happy. A dress that was a dream—a dream
of demureness 1 She had a round hat (which was
in itself a trap to ensnare mankind), trimmed with
black berries and leaves and jet, and a hun-
dred other things calculated to beguile human-
ity. She had black silk embroidered gloves,
and a thick black gossamer veil. And it is
in this veil that most of the interest centres.
With it down, she is as masqued as an Inquisitor.
And she seldom puts it up. But when she puts it
up it is with a purpose. At those times you can
see her face; and such a face!—full of light and
shade, sharp, and though plump—O, mostunpoeti-
cal epithet I—clean cut, decisive. When she lifted
her veil she bewitched—at least if she didn’t, the
fault was His Honor’s—the Judge; held spell-
bound the bar; and depressed our noble selves to
level of more drivellers. To “Miss Maggie Mac-
lean,” one of her servants, she devoted a large
amount of scathing smile and calm contempt.
Miss Maclean was a young lady of attractive ap-
pearance. She was a superlative sample of the
Sydney domestique, in (modesty demanded it) a
demure black dress, snow-white ruffling', and a
Gainsborough hat with a two-guinea feather. As,
perhaps, before this is printed, the case will not
have concluded, we will content ourselves with
quoting one question and the answer (the sub-
stance of which has already been given in the
Evening Alfred), which set the court iu a roar.
After having given evidence re the talking on
the lingers and the manipulation of the win-
dow-blind, the learned senior counsel (dull this I)
for the petitioner asked this question, but being
dramatist by special appointment to the Lotos
A.D.C Club, we will put it in a dramatic form
L.S.C.F.P.Had you and your fellow-servants
any—ah—a—nickname for Mr Solomon ?
Witness : When he used to come so often to the
signals at his window we gave him one.
L.S.C.F. P. : What was that ?
Witness : Well, he used to bob up so often at
his window, that we called him “Jackin the Box.”
Now get ready our leg irons ; prepare our‘gyves.
Lead us—as we fear we shall be led—to the deepest
dungeon ’neaththe Holterman Castle moat, and
torture us with continually thrusting in beneath
our dungeon door the Morning Rum and the
Weekly Shroud. We ask no mercy, and expect
none. Lead on !
* * * • =
“Nurse is come, now, Mrs. Spinnikin, and
thank you for a very pleasant evening.” That’s
what we used to say, when we wore blue frocks
and frilled drawers, at juvenile parties. You
wonder what this means, of course. You shall
hear. When we arrived in Court, we said to a
gentleman of the legal profession: “ Where’s the
co-respondent ?” “There he is,” he replied, point-
ing towards the front of the dock. “ What I not
that old fellow in a beer-stained coat, and with a
glazed eye ?” we said. “No, just ” “It can’t
be that stout man chewing dates, nor that small
boy In blue, who is sitting there, like Little Jack
Homer (without the' pie) sucking a pencil case.”
“That is he.” “Eh? Recall,” we said, turning upon
him with emotion, “those words. You cannot mean
it. That fair-faced youth upon whose cheek no
bloom of whisker nestles—who, though growing
up hard, cannot even grow soft down 1 Impossi-
blel Ask him to wait, and we’ll go out and bhy him
a box of bricks and a Snare-drum to amuse him
until the real co-reSpondeht •arrives.” Bfit it Hbas
he 1 Seated with his back to the dOOr, dud with a
large gold pencil-case in his hand, he was perpetu-
ally instructing his cottnSbl, hut more particularly
instructing Mr. SlrhpSon. He is a smooth-faced
youngster, with curly brown hair, white teeth,
and a face that is singularly boyish, but very in-
telligent. He does not—and this is peculiar—look
any more like a Jew than Mrs. Horwitz looks like a
Jewess. In fact, one of the few things that can
be said against poor little Solomon is that his name
is Alberto.
• • •
There is a rumour floating about the Court
that Alberto’s dad is wealthy. And so he is. He
and a certain legal luminary own nearly all
Woolloomooloo between them ; and the philan-
thopioal Burdekin owns the rest. This, now, will
give you an idea how Alberto is “ in it.” (Get the
leg-irons ready !) He (we don’t give it as a fact,
but merely as an allegation made in evidence), on
enquiring how much Mr. Horwitz was disposed to
allow his wife in the event of a separation, and
finding the sum was something under £10, stated
that he was willing to make it up to £35 a week,
“in order to save her from any inconvenience.”
• • •
The hub. is seated exactly opposite his
“ missus,” with his face towards that vision, and,
when he leans back, his hair is in the reporters’ ink-
stanp. He is rather sallow, and rather bald; has a big
moustache (a la Busse), and an Erard key-board
which suggested a liberal use of the articles cam-
phorated chalk and water. Mr. Horwitz’s brother
sits next to him, and (this is not a significant fact,
but merely an item of gossip) whenever Mr. H.
opened his mouth to yawn, Mr. H.’s brother held
on to the ledge of the reporters’ desk, with
his thumb in the inkstand. Rogers and Dr. Sly
were for the petitioner ; Darley, Simpson, and
Gibson, for the co-respondent; and Bruce Smith
and Pilcher for the fair respondent. Rogers,
though rusty as to his gown and wig, was in great
form, but we were grieved to notice that Dr. Sly’s
otherwise most asthetic presentment was spoiled
by a boil on his right temple. Bruce Smith is
a delicious picture. To gaze on him sug-
gests armoured paladins of the Middle Ages
singing madrigals to castellated maidens, who were
betrothed to “ Some other Baron.” He has a face
of interesting pallor, and a moustache as black as
the wing of Elijah’s raven. And his eye I It has the
sensuous sweetness of the Seraglio—the beam-
ing beauty of the Bosphorus. An orb of sur-
passing beauty—and one that (were we not other-
wise employed) we .should love to bask in for
ever. Darley does not show up, but Pilcher does,
later, exhibiting a facial flufflness suggestive of
the tender young chicken. Then there is the be-
fore-named Gibson. At first, on gazing on those
classic lineaments, and that golden moustache, we
thought that our eyes rested upon a stranger. Not
so. Mr. G. was for many years associate to His
Honor Judge Windeyer, when all of a sudden he
decided upon being called to the bar. What
troubles us (not him) is that he has not yet very
often, been called to a brief. But, as the under-
taker’s say, le jour viendra. Mr. Gibson, who is
young and beautiful and talented, is either Mr.
Justice Windeyer’s nephew, or his aunt. We forget
which. Perhaps both.
* * *
They were funny, those witnesses One
especially. This was a gentleman, who, it seems,
(since he resented the imputation of clerkship) is a
manager for Mr. Horwitz, and who was the insti-
gator, in Court, of infinite merriment. He was
what is known to the bar as a “ too willing ” wit-
ness, and even while being examined by his
friendly counsel, got himself into inconceivable
complications. Before he had been in the box ten
minutes, he was snubbed by Rogers, admonished
by Bruce Smith, and lectured by His Honor. He
seemed a well meaning man, and evidently intended
to tell as much of the truth as he could remember*
but the end was that he collapsed under the disci-
pline to which he was subjected, and when lunch
time came, slunk out of the box covered with con-
fusion.
• • •
There were a number of notable characters
iu Court. There was Mr. M’Elhone, with one hand
Oh the th.il, and 6ne foot (taking up two places) on
the Seat. Then Dan O’Connor came in, and sat
himself down in a pew marked “ police,” and (for
a married man) stared very hard at the respondent.
As, however, his ardent (we do not say voluptuous)
gaze only pierced the centre of her hair-knob, we
cannot say he made any visible impression.
* * *
It was a droll sight, that legal interior;
very droll; and we could tell you a lot more about
it that would amuse you. We may tell you a lot
more about it, too, at some future time; but we
can’t now. The bugle-call has sounded for us to
go downstairs and straighten the clothes-line.
THE NEW BISHOP OF SYDNEY.


The Furniture Column.
The new book,
“ A BULLETIN OK MANIFESTO.”
is freely distributed. Perhaps never has a publi-
cation been so sought after and commanded so
much attention as this little book. Its contents
are not confined simply to business, but much
useful reading matter, both of a light and serious
nature, is introduced. The
HOUSE FURNISHING QUESTION
is dealt with in a very clear manner ; the various
modes of furnishing are set forth to the best
advantage, combining elegance and comfort with
economy.
REDUCED PRICES, and REVISED HOUSE
FURNISHING LISTS.
Everything marked at the Lowest Net Cash Price.
A BULLETIN or MANIFESTO.
Houses Furnished for £15
Houses Furnished for £25
Houses Furnished for £35
Houses Furnished for £50
Houses Furnished for £70
Houses Furnished for £100
Houses Furnished for £200
Houses Furnished for £300
or for any other amount required.
SINGLE ARTICLES at the REDUCED PRICES.
For the sum of £50 prompt net oaah,
You can Furnish a House as follows
PARLOUR.
Upholstered Austrian Suite, consisting
of couch, two arm chairs, and six small
chairs
Chelfonier
Oval pedestal table
Gilt frame pier glass
Pair oil paintings
Cornice pole, with rings, pins, and brackets
Lamp 10s 6d; Clock 15s
Pair vases
Fender and irons
Velvet pile hearthrug
Fancy matting, 16 yards
Door slip
BEDROOM No. 1.
Handsome four-post, 4ft 6in., flowered
bedstead
Pair palliasses
Wool flock mattress
Bolster
Two feather pillows
Large chest of drawers...
Towel-rail washstand and toilet set
Water oaraffo
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Table toilets
Rocking chair
C. 8. chair
Matting for room
Door slip
BEDROOM, No. 2.
Bedstead, half tester ...
Pair paillasses
Mattress ...
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Water caraife
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Chair
Matting
Door slip
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set ...
Table
Glass Is 6d, Chair 2s 6d ...
Matting
KITCHEN.
Table with drawer
Pine safe
Two chairs «.
Six soup plates
Six meat plates
Six pudding plates
Six cheese plates
Meat dishes. Is 9d, 2# 3d, 3s ...
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Bell-top cruet
Set of table mats ..
Six china cups and saucers ...
Six china plates
China sugar basin
China butter dish
China milk jug
China slop basin
Six china egg cups ... ...
Two bread and butter plates
Pair salt cellars
Set of jugs
Pair decanters
Cut glass water battle
Six out tumblers
Six out wines
Six soda glasses ...
Six Mosley’s dinner knives ...
Six nickel dinner forks
Six Mosley’s dessert knives ...
Six nickel dessert forks
Two table spoons
Six dessert spoons
Six tea spoons ... .••
Kettle 5s 6d; Boiler 10s 6d ...
Saucepans, Is 9d, 3s, 4s
Frying pan
Grid-iron ...
Tea pot 2s; Tea caddy Is
Coffee pot Is 6d; Colander Is 6d
Bread-grater
Wash-basin
Dipper
Tubs, 5s and 6s 6d...
Bucket
Wash-board
Two candlesticks...
Baking dishes 8d, lOd
Bread crock
Cake tin ...
Flour barrel
Knife box
Pasteboard
Rolling pin ..
Pepper caster
Flour dredge
Set skewers
Meat stand
Nutmeg grater ...
Kitchen spoon
Toasting fork
Canister
Patent box iron ...
Pair bellows
Hair broom
Hand broom
Dust pan ...
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish
Set shoe brushes ...
8 6
18 0
2 6
10 0
12 6
5 0
2 9
5 0
1
10
2
4
4
2
8 0
2 8
6 3
0
0
6
6
6
0
0
0
0
0
8
0
8
2
2
7
6
6
6
2
6
2
16
8 9
1 9
1
3
3
2
1
11
8
0
0
6
«
e
6
2 0
8 6
1 8
2 6
2 6
1
4
2
3
1
1
1
2
3 6
£50 0 0
THE NEW BOOK,
“ A BULLETIN or MANIFESTO,”
is sent post free everywhere, upon application.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
4Z0 GHORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
Mr. DeCottrcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining' Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining: Titles
Agent: also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pltt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.— Ad yt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for " Arnold’s”
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist's art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind aqy other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company. 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two Arms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert’s
Hotel.— Ad vr.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
SIR DOUBLETOUBEDEE, BARONET.
Recommended by Lord L.
(At this there are no growls). _
It’s hinted, though, that Dailey is
Exceeding fond of fowls.
Here is a curious fact. So far as can at
be ascertained, the late Archbishop
Vaughan did not, from the time of his departure
Australia to the date of the departure
™ England of the mail previous to his death,
send a single line to anyone in this country.
OSCAR WILDB HAS HAD HIS HAIR CUT,
Shorn is the hair which through the world
Of such celebrity became ;
Now it is short, and tightly curled.
And Oscar Wilde is Oscar tame.
The notorious Cora Pearl seems to have
her light quite extinguished ; but her contem-
unrarv the renowned “Skittles,” although fast
Sronmng into “the sere and yellow leaf” still
Snias her own in London and elsewhere. It was
of “ Skittles ” insulting Lady Siam-
(WI in the hunting field, and reminded her of
£°old times,” that the late Earl of Stamford gave
up his pack of hounds.
IN COURT.
Jun QE : „ .
“ Why wait ?—it seems we are all here
(And then he gave an angry glare).
Coxj'nsed:
“ It’s for Bruce Smith; he’d break his heart
If he’d not time to comb his hair.”
So John Nagle Ryan, “Jan” of Ballyryan,
the lord of Gavlong, is to bring his portly presence
and bucolic Intellect to the Upper House. Ja >,
who is a deuced good and honest fellow, though a
terror in pressing the most overwhelming hospi-
talltv on a man, once represented the Lachlan for
a session or two by a most masterly silence—for
Tan never spoke, except to shout for his friends In
the refreshment room. A good heart has Jan, and
a most capable bingie, and enough brains to pull
him through in the simple sort of way in which he
lives • but his appointment as a legislator is a mis-
take, unless Stuart’s little game is to bring con-
tempt on nomineeism.
Speaking last week of a “ retort courteous ”
made by the fat old Duchess of Montrose to the
Prince of Wales, we might have mentioned an
instance of the Dowager herself being “sat upon.”
lust after a race, she was “ bullyragging her
innkev Huxtable, because his mount had cut a
noor figure. “ I thought I told you to come right
along from the start,” said Her Grace. “Well,”
replied the old-fashioned little Huxtable, “you
wouldn’t have had me come along without the
’orse would you ?” In a general way, though, the
noble lady delights in the society of jockeys, and
has been known to cause the special train from
Sandown Park to be delayed for a minute or two,
“to give Wood time to cross the line, and ride
with me.”
The poor Bishop of Newcastle can’t get it
out of his head that Cambridge is the hub of the
intellectual universe. He things he has settled an
onnonent in argument when he has quoted against
him something that a Cambridge don has said or
written, or informed him that on the point in dis-
pute six wranglers say ditto to him (the Bishop).
No doubt Cambridge has turned out many a good
man but she has also turned out an innumerable
host of unconscionable prigs. Now since it’s by
his extreme priggishness that Dr. Pearson mainly
offends, his appeals to the alma mater of prlggish-
ness have no weight with men of the world, whose
motto, like that of the Boston Index, is “ Truth
for Authority, not Authority for Truth.”
Professor Gurney, who bosses the Matho-
matical and Natural Philosophy departments of
Sydney University, is about to visit Europe on
leave of absence (presumably on full pay). Pro-
fessor Smith has only just returned from a long
leave; while it is not long since Professor Liver-
sidge was doing the American and European con-
tinents as a sort of representative New South
Welshman. If the University can always get
along with one Professor on leave, why not with
one Professor left out ? The work of a Professor
is not exhaustive. His position is notone that can
be likened to exile. Why should he be ever crav-
ing for relaxation at the State expense ? When he
is away, lecturers at a-thlrd of his screw do his
work. Why not have three lecturers, then, and no
Professor ?
After donating half a million sterling to
the Kirk, the late Mr. Baird, the big Gartsherrie
ironmaster, met his friend, James Merry, member
for the Falkland Boroughs, who accosted him as
follows: “ Weel, Mr. Baird, noo ye’ve given a’ that
siller to the ‘ Kirk,’ ye’ll be thinking ye’ll gang to
heaven like a bird. Noo, for as rich as ye are, 111
bet ye a fiver ye canna say the ‘ Lord’s Prayer ’ to
save ye’r life/’ “Done.” replied the millionaire,
and commenced: “The Lord’s ma shepherd, a’ll
not want, he maks me doon to lie ” That will
do, that’ll do,” cried Mr. Merry ; “here’s ye r
money: I’ve lost the bet. Lord, man, I didna think
ye could do it; I never thocht it was in ye.” Shows
how these early lessons of piety get ingrained
right down to the boots in every Scotchman, no
matter how many decades have passed since they
were last repeated.
It is most singular that in those pictures
of travel, which constitute such an entertaining
section of each Saturday’s Argus, the learned
“ J.S.” becomes so particularly fascinating when
he recounts the conversations carried on by him-
self and the servants of the great houses in which
he was an honoured guest. Only we don’t like risk-
ing our opinion, we should say that in two years
nencethe only surviving passages of these long
descriptions will be the Ute-a-Ute between James
andJeames. Now, Anatole was the best thing at
Touraine. He was a Jeames of the companionable
sort. He had an eye for the beautiful, could draw
hlstor'cal parallels like an Australian, and quote
the ipsissima verba of Henry the Fourth as ac-
curately and with the same adaptation to surround-
ings as may be observed in Argos writers gener-
ally He did not look down on the Australian at
all, as the sensitive James says. We like Anatole.
We like this kind of Jeames. We also like James
himself when he talks of Jeames. There's a sort
of brotherly—well, ah—Didn’t we say above some-
thing was most singular? Well, it isn’t. Not a
bit. It’s as it ought to be.
In Duffy’s “Four Years of Irish History”
every thing is drawn as seen through a magnifying
glass. The heroes are such heroes, the poets such
poets, the men of the Nation such magnanimous,
such self-denying patriots ! When Thackeray
tackled one incident of that time—the battle of
Limerick, to wit—and essayed to sketch the valiant
sons of Mars who in it sustained the destinies of
Young Ireland, he was probably looking through a
reversed telescope. He who would gain a
tolerably accurate notion of the heroes of Young
Ireland must strike an average betwixt Duffy’s
“ patriots so bould ” and Thackeray’s—ex. gr. must
correct the stern John Mitchel of the former with
the latter’s Jack Mitchil, who when
The lovely tay was spilt
On that of Ireland’s quilt.
Says “ Be jabers, I am kilt : Boys where’s the
' back door ?
’Tis a national disgrace,
Let me go and veil me face,”
And he boulted with quick pace from the Shannon
shore.
There is a little human nature in Wrixou,
of Victoria, alt hough you wouldn’t think it. To
look at him in his place in the House, holding his
head back and staring at the ceiling when Pay-
ment of Members is on, would impress you with
the idea that he had purged himself of all carnal
desires. But he is still leavened with the old
Adam. II fermented, the other night, and hence-
forth he can be regarded as a man with a redeem-
log weakness. The Department of Education had
reprobated the immorality of a certain teacher.
The reprobation was couched in language of very
tempting flavour. “ The head-teacher —ah —kissing
—ah—female pupil-teacher—ah I” Wrixon and
Mrs. Grundy raced for the details. It speaks
amply for the zest with which he ran when he beat
Mrs. Grundy. But he looked “sold,” the other
night, while informing the House that the Depart-
mental Report was a huge exaggeration. There
was nothing in it that paid him for the trouble of
running. It was only a simple case of “ kiss-in-
the-ring," without a taste of the spice which had
made his eyes sparkle. He is wroth with the
Department.
A consummate actress is Madame J udic.
To the average Englishman, there is always a dis-
tinct suggestion of naughtiness about a French
actress. And in Judic’s case the idea is not totally
baseless, either. In Prance, she was greatly dis-
appointed when the authorities stopped her from
singing two songs which were so very suggestive
of gaiety as to be too much for even a French
audience. In London, she has been startling
women and delighting men by appearing in such
scanty bathing attire on the stage as to .raise
wonder how the play ever got past the notice of
the Censor. It is in these light, if not very estim-
able, trifles, acted with a saucy abandon which is
the essence of fascination, that Judic has built up
considerable fame, and got herself liked. What-
ever may be said about the legitimate, if Juliet or
Joan of Arc were on one stage and Judic on
another, it’s quite certain that the mashers, at
least, wouldn’t trouble faithful Juliet or virtuous
Joan. One of her songs, is full of such
delicate and daring significance as to be
acknowledged by critics to be more than unpeu
risqui. Arid when Judic carols it, the cofferdam
crowd go into transports of pleasure. Of course,
it isn’t Madame’s fault that she is so peculiarly
fitted for plays in which all the characters are con-
stantly hovering round the skirts of the seventh
commandment, and most of them generally plunge
through it; nor her blame if the public like them.
She gets rich, so there is no more to be said in this
virtuous age.
Writes “Pegasus”: —“Pat ’ Anderson—for
it was thus that Mr. Patrick W. Anderson, of New-
stead Station, Inverell, was familiarly known—
died the other day. He was thrown from a buggy
and lay for some time in a pitiable condition—
utterly paralysed and helpless. He will be missed
in his district, as any resident must who has for
years, whether few or many, been mixed up with
his neighbours in the business or pleasures of the
day, and the suddenness of his melancholy death
has set many of Iris intimates thinking. Mr. An-
derson was not widely known out of his own set,
for it was his nature to keep himself within the
limits of a circumscribed acquaintance. Still, he did
his part as a country gentleman. He produced a
useful class of horses, of the weight-carrying
hunter type, and by those who met him in his
bush home he was at once placed in the
category of ‘useful colonists.’ As a sportsman,
his hobby was hunting, and when amateur race-
riding was in vogue in Sydney some few years
back, he set an example to our young native
‘ aristocracy ’ over the sticks, which they would
have done well to follow, instead of forsaking
scarlet and silk for the flannels and rubber-soled
shoes of—haw I—lawn-tennis. It is said that Mr.
Anderson was a relative of the Duke of Man-
chester. He and his two brothers must have done
well in squatting transactions. One of the latter,
Mr. Duncan Anderson, known to all hands as by
far the best of Australian amateur boxers, is now
on the Continent. After knowing poor dead Pat
Anderson for years, the writer can say that he
never heard anyone utter a word against him—
which is worthy of note in these days of high-life
backbiting.”
Messrs. T. J. Murray and Donovan, of the
Freeman, have published a brochure upon the life
and labour of Archbishop Vaughan, in which
they appear to prove conclusively that though
they know a great deal about the latter, they know
little or nothing concerning the former. Still
there is much that is instructive in the book
which has already had a very large circulation. We
learn that His Grace, during his labours for the
restoration of St. Mary’s Cathedral, wrote 300u
letters ; and we are also told—what surprised us
perhaps more—that the late prelate was in the
habit of drawing comic little sketches on the en-
velopes containing his copy for the printer. We
are told too—and it is pleasant reading—that
Dickens’s novels were amongst his favourite read-
ing. The Archbishop’s sleeping apartment, into
which nobody but Dr. Gillett and the valet were
permitted to penetrate, is thus described :—
“ Nothing could be plainer or closer in resemblance
to a monastic cell. It is a small room with its walls
and floor perfectly bare—if we except a tiny
picture of Our Lady of Dolors, hanging near the
bed—and the only ornament, if it can be called
such —is a crucifix of considerable age, on which
is hung a Rosary, and which stands on the mantle-
piece. The bed, which is of the smallest and com-
monest description, without curtains, occupies the
most remote corner of the room, and at the foot of
this very humble ‘ couch of greatness’ there is a
plunge and shower bath screened off from the rest
of the apartment. The furniture is exceedingly
plain, and consists of a table, a washhand stand, a
dressing glass, a wardrobe, and a press for articles
of personal use. His Grace’s dressing-gown, of
golden coloured Japanese silk, is hung in the room
as he left it.” The authors also teD us that His
Grace was “ an expert knight of the trigger,” an
expression rather painfully suggestive of a
“pigeon” par. by Alfred’s “limpid rock” man.
The little work, however, is generally written in a
careful and entirely in a reverential spirit.
Souvenirs of the late prelate are now in immense
demand amongst his flock. And this reminds us
of an innocent little joke. When the sad news
arrived, a certain well-known Catholic lady was in-
consolable and her husband did all he could to
comfort her. “You shall have a splendid portrait
in oils of the poor Archbishop,” said the hub. The
wife looked up with streaming eyes. “ Oh, never
mind the portrait,” she sobbed: “what I want is
his coachman to drive our new carriage.” We
wonder where this retainer is, by the way. He
was a coachman out of a dream.
Here is a first-class yarn, sent us by a Mel-
bourne correspondent:—“Joe Beef’s Canteen,” at
Montreal, Canada, is about the queerest institution
in the world, and yet lots of Australians visit Mon-
treal without ever hearing of it. “Joe Beef,” as
he is always called (what his right name is we don’t
know), is the son of a French corporal, notorious
for the same pluck and eccentricity that he has
bequeathed to his worthy son. The Canteen <or
“Bummers’ Hotel”), a big, ramshackle building
close to the St. Lawrence River, is the head quar-
ters of ail the outcasts of the city, who are
provided with supper, breakfast, and night's lodg-
ing for the modest consideration of livepence.
Better still, if they are quite destitute, Joe permits
them to run up a score, and pay as soon as they
“get a bit.” Upon one end of the bar counter lie’s
the larger portion of a bullock, raw, from which
the hungry lodger cuts off a steak and takes it to
the cook, in the kitchen upstairs, to be dressed; a
quarter-loaf of bread and a bowl of soup complete
the supper. A very striking object in the bar-
room is the skeleton of “ Joe Beef’s ” father
in tattered regimentals, standing behind the
counter and grinning approval upon things in
general. The “ old ’un ” is a great favour-
ite with the habUuis of the place, and very
touching it is to sec them offer him a drink from
time to time. It is understood that in his will he
expressed a desire to “ remain among us,” so his
wishes have been dutifully carried out, and there
he stands “always looking after business,” as Joe
puts it. The front of the bar, of an evening, pre-
sents an animated scene, with some forty or fifty
bummers (in every variety of costume), enlivened
by drink, probably “stood” by a partyof sailors
(who have dropped in to see the fun) joining in the
chorus of the “Joe Beef Song:”—
“ There’s one cent for coffee
And one cent for bread.
There’s three for a beefsteak
And five for a bed;
With a breeze from the gutter—
A nice, healthylsmell—
To refresh all the ‘ boys ’
\t the Bummer’s Hotel.”
And there are many worse musicians in the world
than the poor, broken-down wretch who ac-
companies them on the pianoforte meanwhile.
Leading out of the bar-room is a sort of barn,
tenanted by a magnificent buffalo, with a head
bigger than an eighteen-gallon cask, who is so
“ full of play ” that he occasionally evinces a dls-
Sositlon to join the company, until driven back by
oe or his manager. Any privileged visitors,
desiring to see a little bear-baiting, can find them-
selves suited at “Joe Beef’s.” Having hinted
their desire, he bids them take seats (they usually
place chairs upon a table) in a room set apart for
the purpose ; soon some dogs come bounding in,
and presently the redoubtable Joe appears leading
two black bears by long chains. Good business
immediately results ; in fact things get so lively
that the gentlemen desirous of seeing a bit of
sport have generally fled in dismay long before the
bears can be taken back to their cage under the
staircase. These are not the only bears on the
premises ; an immense fellow (a grizzly) has a pit
to himself right under the kitchen, so that when
any bummer has had a particularly long “ drunk ”
and requires sobering, Joe’s manager lifts
up the trap - door and threatens to let him,
sleep with the bear. The effect is electrical. About
eighty men sleep in the “ hotel” every night, in
fairly clean and comfortable beds. About seven
o’clock in the morning Joe tells them to “get-up,
have breakfast, and clear out,” and Joe’s word is
law. He is alwavs capable of taking on any fire of
the bummers’ if they are refractory, and upon the
few oc asions that he has been summoned for
breaking collar-bones, &o., &c., the court has
always recognized the difficulties of his position,
and Joe has come off triumphant. Strangely
enough, Mrs. Joe Beef and her young sons appear
to be quite untainted by the villainy which
surrounds them. As for the man himself, every-
one who knows Joe Beef and his hotel respects
both as grand institutions. Speaking of Joe Beef’s
bears, it seems that a certain Melbourne drapery
firm, who have just taken the finest premises in
the city, keep a bear on show. Up to the present
only two male assistants are missing; but it is
believed that the bear (who appears to be a rare
old connoisseur ) has got its eye on some of the girls,
who may shortly expect “a funeral in the family.”
• • *
Old Ned Strongitharra has gone where the
good fellows go—and Cootamuadra is sad
While Forbes was lavishing money to receive the
Ministers, Prescott, an old solicitor and pressman,
was dymg in its streets from starvation—His
Honor Justice Stone will represent West Austra-
lia at the forthcoming Federation Conference.
Just fancylsome of our Judges representing N.8.W,
at a conference—say on Libel Law Reform I — The
doctor who, atlEaglehawk. Victoria, the other day, •
shot at his paramour while in the “jlmjams,”
then married her to “burk” her evidence, and is
now out on bail, is the same medico who was fined
out West for threatening to rip the “ innards ” out
of an hospital patient under his oare a few years ago.
A happier wife in all the town
You’d seldom meet than Mrs. Brown;
She is B.’s “ second,” you must know.
And was his cook, some years ago.
When first she went to Brown’s abode,
He much admired the pretty mode
In which she used to “ do her hair ”
(It hung in ringlets, and was fair.)
And though, alas I a married man.
The cook’s bewitching eyes began
To cause regrets (oh, such is life)
That he already had a wife.
So, day by day, his passion grew,
(We all are fond of something new);
Until he fairly lost hishead
And wished his “better half” was dead.
Meanwhile, the cook (dear simple girl),
Had always kept her hair in curl;
Made glad the house with blithesome song,
And cherished ne’er a thought of wrong.
But, one fine day, she chanced to raise
Her eyes, and met her master’s gaze;
She could not help but heave a sigh,
And think “ Why doesn’t missus die ? ”
At length she ’gan to pine and droop,
And drop her tears into the soup;
Until, at last, she formed a plan
For making Brown a single man.
Thought she, “ I’ll give dear Mrs. B.
Some * vermin-killer ’ in her tea;
For, wherefore make distinctions nice
’Twixt darling Mrs. B. and mice ? ”
Oh! bitterly she sobbed and grieved,
When Mrs. Brown no longer breathed;
She wailed her loss both loud and long.
But said “ she’d feared it, all along.”
Poor Brown, he sat engaged in thought;
His woe was of the silent sort—
He scorned to make a sad display
Of all his feelings, every day.
And when his wife was laid to rest,
Brown felt “ that all was for the best; ”
And ere another sun went down,
The pretty cook was Mrs. Brown.
JUDIC.
A Domestic Story.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)


G
aiety theatre
Lessee and Manager. Herb Bandmann.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT,
grand production of the
MERCHANT OF VENICE.
Herr Bandmann in hla world-wide famed grand
impersonation of Shy lock.
FRIDAY (for that night only),
BAST LYNNE,
SATURDAY, September 23, Grand Production of
BLOW FOR BLOW,
in which Australia’s famous Comedian,
JOHN L. HALL,
and the favourite Actress, Miss JESSIE GREY,
together with the
BANDMANN-BBATJDET COMBINATION
will appear.
Box Office at Paling’s and Gaiety Theatre, where
seats can be booked daily. .
Admission —Orchestra Chairs (reserved), at
Paling’s, 4s : Stalls, 3s ; Circle, Family Circle, 3s :
ENLARGED PIT, Is.
o
P a R a
house
'Xcssgg •• i. ••• Mr. w, J. WiJs#Q
Sub-Lessee .. Slg. 8. Majeronl
Acting Business Manager.. Mr. S. Genes©
SECOND WEEK. o7Tnmion
BRILLIANT and PRONOUNCED SUCCESS
of the New Comedy,
AN ARABIAN NIGHT,
or Haroun-al-Raschid and his Mother-in-Law.
THIS EVENING, and until further notice.
The Celebrated Comedian.
MB. POLK . MR. POLK
assisted by his charming and talented wife,
Mrs. JULIA A. POLK Mrs. JULIA A. POLK.
Supported by the Best Comedy Company in
the colonies,
in a Modern Society Comedy, in 4 acts, entitled
AN ARABIAN NIGHT,
or Haroun-al-Raschid and his Mother-In-Law.
Private Boxes. £3 3s ; Dress Circle, 5s; Stalls, 3fl,
PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Box office now open at Huenerbeln’s, 411 Geo.-st-
Tickets for sale at Roberts’s, adjoining Theatre-
T
HEATRE ROYAL—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrovb.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
BLAND HOLT’S TRULY GIGANTIC
DRAMATIC COMBINATION,
In the Poetic and Sensational London Drama,
written by Henry Pettitt, Esq., entitled
TAKEN FROM LIFE.
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
Academy of music.
Lessee, Mr. F. Millis. Manager, Mr. L. Jordan.
FOURTH and LAST WEEK of MILLIS.
Grand Change of Programme To-Night.
MILLIS, the Ventriloquist and Character Actor.
MILLIS. MILLIS. MILLIS. MILLIS.
The Academy Crowded Nightly.
Two Hundred Gifts To-night.
Last Week of Gifts at the Academy.
Amazement 1 Wonderment! Astonishment I
Gifts of Unsurpassable Elegance.
Every lady to-night will receive a costly and beau-
3 tiful Gift.
Nearly every gentleman in the audience will re-
ceive a valuable Gift to-night.
Every lady will receive a magnificent present
to-night.
Beats—3s, 3s, and Is. Doors open 7.30, commence at 8,
Pianist, Mr. W. Adams. Agent, Mr. Nat. Jacobs.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—Benefit of Fred. W. Millis,
FRIDAY, September 31st. Special programme.
Double lot of Gifts. Tea and Coffee Service for
best Conundrum -Subject: The Liberty of the
Press. Entire change of programme. Suite of
drawing-room Furniture. Every lady receives a
C.
j Lessee Mr. M. Hegarty
Su b-lessee and’Directress .. Miss Ella Carrington
On SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 32,
MISS ELLA CARRINGTON’S
L. L. DRAMATIC COMPANY,
which includes George Melville, Sam. Poole, H-
Stoneham, Harry Leston, C. Fuller, Boleno Brown,
P. Spiller, Miss M. Meadway, Mrs. C. H. Taylor,
Miss Flo, Meredith, Mrs. T. Forde,
and the favourite dialect performers and vocalists,
ELLA CARRINGTON and CHARLIE TAYLOR,
in an entirely new musical and sensational Irish
Drama, in four acts, entitled
LEAGUER and LANDLORD,
a play of the present time, full of fun, singing,
dancing, and sensation.
Scenery by Kinchela. Orchestra directed by
Signor Pagnottl,
Orchestra Chairs, 3s; Stalls, 3s; Pit and Balcony, Is.
A much-needed reform—No Fees permitted in
Ladles’ Cloak-room.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS Instructs In VOICE
BUILDING, ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
LOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
1CHOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m,; and at
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 35, Thursday, 3 p.m.,
Wednesday, 8 p.m, (Ladies and Gentlemen).
Visitors invited. _ „
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen,
64 HUNTER STREET, opposite Bllzabeth-street.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
TCTPROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
NOW open for engagement at NYNQEN, near
Hallway Station, the
“ASSEMBLY ROOMS,”
a large and well-appointed HALL. Apply to
HEARD & M'KENN A, Agents.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
TO LET from 5th November next. Terms on
application to Thos. Setrioht, care of
Elvy and Co., 339 George-street, Sydney; or the
undersigned,
JAMES B. HICK1E,
Brisbane.
VICTORIA HALL
Boitkke Street, Melbourne.
Lessee
Mr. F. E. HiSCOOKS.
The moat Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
J lace of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
or any first-class entertainments. The Lessee open
o Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne.
HHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZELU WAR.
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to 31st.
Bundaberg, Maryborough, and Gymp4e.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WAR!
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor.
SYL. RYAN, Agent.
ITEEL ANGLOS, Extra Loud, for Dancing.
i Two years’ guarantee. 35 per cent, under
dney prices. No crushing rent! J. STANLEY,
ncertlua Doctor, Bathurst.
Tli.e IE3ella,Tole BuLg^gries!
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
1-I/>T« nnATt /lAATka
TOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY,
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence -street.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This
more
Newcas
makes a stronger,
and soot of
domestic desideratum
and cleanly as a
unwhole-
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and eh
charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas Are.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office; A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT: WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
BROOK'SlSEWING COTTONS
Q
a
Q
O
so
o
CC
a
2*
37
&
m
OE
f BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
AX
BROOK’S PATENT
™ I GLAC£ THREAD
HAND & MACHINE SEWING, I
♦ White, Black & all Colours j>!e NEW SHOULDER REEL.
- —^
G
IBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship,
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agbno :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Omfe': HONGKONG.
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M‘Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
-Pa “ ”
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters,
s—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Vivian and Sons-
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The'Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co. —English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, Prance—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston—Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Fibres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablls, Sautemes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jlndera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fryand Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
' INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
X xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xx
x xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx X x
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
XX
NEW SHAPES IN BONNETS & HATS XX
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
XX
xx
XX
XX
xx
xx
xx
xx
XX
XX
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
XX
xx
xx
xx
XX
xx
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Manchester Goods, Dress Stuffs, Silks, XX
Crapes, Satins, Velvets, Hosiery, XX
Gloves, Laces, Haberdashery, Mantles, XX
Carpets, Blankets, Bedsteads, Oil- XX
cloths, Millinery, Parachutes, Scents, XX
— XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Xa
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Hokdekn brothers,
211, Pltt-street,
wish to direct your particular attention
to the following new
Ex Rosetta. arrival. Ex Rosetta.
The Empress, Queen, Marchioness,
Countess, New Duchess, Pembroke,
hippie, Jasmine, Brighton, Wilden,
Alexandria, Gilliard, Atoka, Rosalind,
Carlingford, lolanthe, New Wheeler,
Violet, &c., &c..
In Plain and Mixed Coloured Straw.
NEW FRUIT SPRAYS & WREATHS
Cherries, Grapes, Apricots, Straw-
berries, Currants, Apples, Rasp-
berries, Acorns, &c., &c.,
NEW FLOWERS,
SPRAYS,
and
WREATHS
in
Terra Cotta, Crushed Strawberry
and Dried Rose.
Lilies, Marguerites, Chrysanthemums,
Carnations, Poppies, Sunflowers, Pan-
sies, Tonquil, Snowdrops, For-get-me-
nots, Passion Flowers, Geraniums,
Violets, Jasmine, Wallflowers, Holli-
ander, Daisies, Holly, Ivy, Hawthorn,
Clematis, Acacia,
Combination Wreaths for Hair and
Dress, Gold, Silver, Mourning and Half
Mourning Flowers and Wreaths.
TRIMMED HATS,
in the newest styles, 7s. lid. to 2ls.
TRIMMED BONNETS,
Ex Rosetta. Ex Rosetta
ditto ditto, 10s. 6d. to4os.
In the above we have mentioned
a very few of the thousand and one
items. We can serve you with all you
want that a general draper ought to
keep.
Soaps, Wools, and Ribbons.
ANYTHING and EVERYTHING.
SEE OUR GRAND DISPLAY
of
ALL SORTS OF GOODS,
fashionable
Ex Rosetta and good, and Ex Rosetta
with a reasonable price.
IP OUR WINDOWS TO-DAY.
Only Address—
HORDERN BROTHERS,
209, 211, PUT-STREET
Right in the Centre of all the Drapers.
H
This day
THIS DAY,
HORDERNS’ in PITT-STREET
Invite your attention to
the Spring Desirable Fashions
shown in their WINDOWS.
We sell everything that it is possible
to think of
in the Drapery, Silk. Carpet,
Millinery, Clothing, and Millinery
Trades.
Our Full Address is
XX 172a, 174, 174a, 176, 176a, 178,209,211, Pitt-st, XX
XX XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X X
ALCOCK&C0.S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES
SOLE AGENTS
CEU11 ail CO.
375 George-st., Sydney.
'P
isr* time payments, if required.
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
ON receipt of the following collection of
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarded
Free by return of post to any part of New South
Wales
loz. Beet (blood red), loz. Borecole or German
Greens, loz. Brocoli, 3oz. Cabbage (early and
late). 2oz. Carrot (2 varieties), loz. Celery, loz.
Cauliflower, loz. Cress (curled), loz. Mustard
(fine white), loz. Lettuce, loz. Parsnip, loz.
Parsley (extra curled), 2oz. Onions (2 varie-
ties), 4oz, Turnip (3 varieties), loz. Savoy,
loz. Spinach, 2oz. Radish (long and turnip), -
packets Melons (water and rock), I packet
Cucumber, 1 packet Pumpkin, 1 packet
Tomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
One half of above collection, 10s, post free. }2
packets of choice assorted Flower Seeds, suitanie
tor present sowing, will be presented with each *■,
post collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments oi
Seeds, containing Peas and Beans, lor transit to
coach, rail, or steamer, for small or large gardens,
from 10s, £1, £2, and £3 3s each. Payments made
by money order or, stamps.
C. F. CRESWBLL, Seed and Plant Merchant,
474 George-street, Sydney.
BLESSING TO WOMANKIND.
PREVENTS DESTRUCTION TO HEALTH,
AND OFTEN CRIME,
SAFE AND EFFECTUAL.
Sealed particulars free. Address—
PARISIAN IMPORTING COMPANY,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.


HAWKESBURY RIVER TO GOSFORD.
w
ANTED, MASONS and QUARRYMEN, lor
two feet square CULVERTS.
GEORGE BLUNT,
Railway Contractor,
Goaford.
CUP.
03000 on MELBOURNE
oW 1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1888 Series.
“AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP,
13,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
Prizes at £B5-£350
„ 10- 500
5-360
£1000
Grand total, £3000
The success of former events induces me to an-
nounce fce next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest raontg event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for ail expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stumps for reply
and result. Register letters.
Address—" AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“ Taken from Life.” p. 10.
Opera House— “An Arabian Night” ib.
li vxety Theatre —“ Mei’chant of Venice ”... lb.
Masonic Hall.— Federal Minstrels lb.
Academy of Music.—Millis’s Entertainment ib.
Never again,
Not if we know it,
In sun or in rain.
While our senses remain,
Shall wc strike the wild harp of our sires as a
serenade poet.
Oh, she was fair!
Fair as a lily,
An actress—but where
Is our own small affair—
And her smile was divine, and her laugh captiva-
xingly silly.
Rhymes did we Avrite,
Full of rod roses,
And sung them at night
For our idol’s delight
Right in under the room Avhere, said we, in the lap
of sweet dreams she reposes.
Can’t tell you why.
Stars began dancing,
And doAvn fell the sky,
And the world looked awi'y
For a moment—Ave picked up our teeth and this
ended our little romancing.
Mystery ? No,
Only just this is
The case—in the show
She was Miss So-and-so,
And her husband cleared up the mistake with a
club, and explained she Avas “Missus.”
* * * *
The other day a man described on the
posters as “the greatest acrobat in the wox-ld”
sued a Melbourne theatrical manager for a Aveek’s
salary, £3. Defendant, Avho, it appeared, had ten-
dered 2s. in satisfaction of complainant’s claim,
pleaded that he had engaged the complainant as a
matter of charity, to give him a shoAv, and, as a
matter of fact, had “ Avorked a notice in the Age.”
l he mode by Avhich the notice avbs “ worked in the
Age” Avas not described, but, doubtless, the man
who had the working caught an Age critic in a
haunted glen at the dead of night, and while the
tempests roared and the lightning flashed, and
murdei'ers’ ghosts shrieked and gibbered beneath
every tree, he (the worker) shoved a 37-barrelled
revolver against the repoi'ter’s forehead and swore
assassination unless a par. was immediately written
which would make the greatest acrobat’s fame
hum like a typhoon throughout the land. This is
the only possible way in Avhich to get at an Age
reporter.
* * * *
At the Gaiety, during the week, Band-
mann has produced, “Kip,” “East Lynne” and
"Shyiock.” On Saturday night, Mr. J. L. Hall ap-
pears in “ Blow for Blow.”
* * * *
A (MELBOURNE) LYRIC.
Nearly OA T er Avas the ssason
Of that most tremendous “ star,”
And ’twas rumoured some saw reason
(You knoAv Avhat some people are!),
Ere he left this dramatic rocket,
To present him with a locket.
Well, his “ben.” Avas nearly over,
A dignitax-y on the stage,
Says “ The xvay you play the lover
Is a feature of the age!
This small ” Then it flashed upon him
He had not that locket on him!
Such a pause. Hoav all did wonder!
Gravity stood on the brink!
Titters soon; and then, by thunder!
What do you all really think V
AVith a blush, from out his pocket
That star drew the famous locket!
He’d bought it, it came to pass,
And it was the purest—brow.
• • * »
Short and sharp. The Polks are playing
to lai’ge audiences at the Opera House. We went
there again on Saturday night last. We Avere
almost as much amused as wlxen we Avent before,
although, next to beauty, and perhaps butter, a
joke is the last thing that Avill keep.
* * * *
“Taken from Life,” at the Royal, is draw-
ing A’ery big business.
* * * *
GEORGE DARRELL HAS ARRIVED ! ! I
(Piano.)
No wonder that the burnished sun
Gleams brighter than it did before;
No wonder on that gorgeous one
The pale moon sheds her gleams galore!
No Avonder brighter are the stars—
You can’t but mark such signs as these.
No wander on the
But, no matter.
* * * *
By the way, Johnny Hall and his wifey
(Miss Jessie Grey) have been engaged by Band-
mann, and appear in a feAV days in “Blow for
Blow.”
* * * *
On Monday night there was an embarrass-
ment of Aveaith. A lecture at Paddington on
on “Local Government,” a cock-fight at Botany, a
“ratting” in Woolloomooloo, and an amateur
sacred concert at Woollahi-a, introducing a duet
between the piccolo and bassoon, were on our list.
Then the footman appeared and remarked: “ Rees
and Vogrich are on to-night.” This settled matters.
We Avere ten minutes too soon; so, before the
trouble began, a chance wa - . given us to look
around. There Avere many more people than on
the last occasion, but there avus room for still
more. In front of us were an old military-looking
gentleman and a young soui’-looking lady. The
gentleman looked as if he’d just been plucked at a
spelling-bee, Avhile round the lady’s neck was a
ruff that called up the old jingle:—
“ But one thing is true of her manner and dress,
Her collar was ruff, and her choler was rougher.”
Then a lady passed in Avith an anti-macassar, hav-
ing forgotten to unhitch it when she left home.
Over the platform avc noticed the figure of an
angel. She was labelled “Truth.” It struck
us that if no more appropriate place than an
“Orange lodge” could be found for her, it
would have been mercy to leave her at the bottom
of her well. The first notes of Beethoven. “Op’s 35”
shook us up. This composition has many beauties.
We discovered a fresh one, hitherto overlooked.
It is the real cure for larrikinism. Keep eA’ery
larrikin in N.S. Wales on skilly and stonebreaking
till he learnt to Avhistle it, and there would bo no
further need for the “cat.” Schubert, Liszt,
Chopin, and Weber (the Aveird), space compels us
to jettison you, and even you, our ever-melodious
chansons sans paroles man, Avould have to go over-
board but for that andante in your C minor trio.
It did not s’ ggest, as the gifted Melbourne critic
said of Ketten, spinning-Avheels and fair-haired
Marguerites, drowsy blue-bottles and daisy-pinked
meadows, but it suggested dreams surpassing in
eeriness those that troubled the souls of Poe or
Shelley—dreams Avhose reraemberance at a later
hour disorganised our appetite and made us
look coldly on the modest potato and
poloney Avho conversion into protoplasm is usuady
welcomed after a day of toil. And Rees ( place aux
clames was, somehow, forgotten this time) sang,
and the audience became noisy till she sang again,
Avhen they became noisier still. Bellini and Gounod
furnished her Avith dotted crotchet and quaver,
which she translated into sound rivalling that
heard by “ Billy Bottom,” Avhen Mab told him how
killing he was on that Midsummer Night so long
ago. On Thursday night she will trill again, and
we will be there looking down upon tier from our
perch beside the statue of “Truth,” and trying to
count Max Vogrloh’s fingers, to settle a bet
whether it Is 500 or 50C0 which he uses.
* * * *
Here’s news; The Academy of Music is to
become the homo of the Drama. The Irish drama
this time. The Sydney Dramatic Company, con-
sisting of Miss Ella Carrington and a number of
other names so brilliant we dare not print them
until wo add another million to our insurance,
opens there in “ Landlord and Leaguer” on Satur-
day night next. This play is said to be very
sensational; we shall therefore use the interven-
ing time in steeling our nerves—they say there is
a good deal of steel in whisky. The place is to bo
litted up <le luxe. There is to be a cloak-room,
carpet on the floors,! clean chairs, and every other
luxury calculated to crowd the house with the
elite of the city. We shall go anyhow—if we can
get them out by then.
Archbishop Vaughan’s will is to be sworn
under £61,000, which all goes to his Church.
Mr. Charles Dobson, of the Pastoral
Chambers, George-street, has been appointed sole
agent for Alcock’s celebrated billiard tables; and
he is arranging for a big extension of the business
in N.S.AV.
The revenue returns from Croydon sta-
tion, have run up to just upon £5000 a year. Two
years ago, Croydon was the most insignificant of
suburban platforms. Now, in addition to giving
wealthy returns, it is one of the best managed.
H Reported Sale op Le Grand.—Referring
to a paragraph which appears in “ The Budget,” in
a previous printed column, re the sale of Lo Grand,
the Derby winner, wo have the authority of Mr.
.lost for saying that the horse “is not sold,” and
isn’t likely to be.
At Springsure, Alfred Owen, an ox-en-
coux-ager’s assistant, feeling inclined for a little
wholesome fun, persuaded the Tambo mail-carrier
to get up behind him on a horse and “ have a lift.”
The Tambo boy did so, and then the pair of them
shared the “ lift ” most fairly. The mailer is now
in the hospital with a broken leg. and the joker’s
face looks a bill-poster’s wall after a heavy shower.
Prof. West gave a lively Cinderella Party
in his hall at Tattex-sall’s Buildings on the
13th, Inst., starting punctually at 8, and ending in
time for the last trams. Drees raiment was the
rule, and the coming of warm weal her was be-
tokened by the largo number of ladies who wore
the cool and comfortable silk gloves, which are
now made in so many and such pretty shades that
a good effect can be attained by skilfully choosing
the colours. Several ballads were sung, notable
being the catching “ Kerry Dance,” by a fair lady
famed for her sweet voice ; and Byi’on’s “ Water-
loo” was spiritedly recited by a gentleman. No
time was lost, and no “lords” were allowed to
loiter round the doorway and look on at ladies
lining the walls.
Mr. John Brinsmead, Inventor and Manu-
facturer.
The name of John Brlnsmead, inventor and manu-
factnrer, la known throughout the English-speak-
ing world. Fifty years ago he left Gloucester, bis
native place, and started the manufacture of
pianos in London, where his inventive skill and
enterprise won him, not only renown in continen-
tinental and home cities (being made Knight of
Villa Vicoza, and Chevalier of the Legion of
Honour), but a fast developing business. His
factories extended, till at last he founded his great
works at Kent Town (suburbs of London). Over
five acres are occupied by lofty structures, which
are still being extended, and at no time are there
less than 600 or 700 pianos in course of construc-
tion. The labour-saving appliances, the invention
of Brlnsmead and his engineers, are unmatched,
and the opinion of London scientific journals
is that from the care observed in the manufacture,
the Brinsmead pianoforte cannot be excelled.
The firm consists of the founder and his sons,
Edgar, Thomas, and Horace Brinsmead. Mr. John
Brinsmead, though a very prosperous man, still
requires that each Instrument shall undergo his
exacting supervision, and voicing and tuning, for
which latter work he has a marvellous faculty.
Our International Exhibition of 1879 practically
introduced the Brinsmead pianos to the colonies,
when they won the highest awards over all com-
petitors, the same thing occurring in Melbourne.
This competition raised the standard of piano-
fortes for the colonies fully 50 per cent,
and the “ Battle of the Pianos” has become an
historic fact. Mr. Horace Brinsmead, who
undertook the whole work of the Exhibi-
tion followed up his success by introducing
the celebrated Esdaile piano (approved by Mr.
John Brinsmead)—a make of substantial but
not costly character. Several trained artisans
from the London works were brought out and
distributed to the various branches and agencies
established by Mr. H. Brinsmead, and now the
John Elder is bringing an additional staff of tuners
and mechanics. The great? new warehouses de-
cided on in Melbourne, and the big trade doing
here and in Queensland, tell of the result of the
whole enterprise of a firm whose centre is eighteen
thousand miles away.
THE DEATH OF CAPTAIN WEBB:
OR,
A Drowned Offering.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The people whom Christ died for, rose in
haste
And hauled their pants on, with much ex-
pedition,
Knowing full well there was no time to
waste
For those who wished to get a good posi-
tion
To see the latest phase of Christian taste,
The very moral, modern exhibition,
The sweet sensation, the excitement crown-
ing
All other—a great hero slowly drowning!
Staid Church of England men, who did not
swear, /
Or smoke, or show a trace of human weak-
ness —
Who knew, by heart, the Book of Common
Prayer,
And showed Prosperity allied with Meek-
ness;
Who at Committee Meetings took the chair
And made it creak beneath their well-fed
sleekness—
Rushed off to catch the train, and told their
spouses
They had to see a man about some houses.
Fierce Methodists, who sang what Dr. Watte
No doubt believed were rather decent
verses—
Whose hoped-for Heaven was full of gleeful
thoughts
Of Hell for Romans, and eternal curses
For all who sought to climb celestial Ghauts
By different stairs—put money in their
purses
(Though they professed themselves one Book
content with)
To make a book upon the big event with.
Distinguished Patriots from o’er the sea,
With brogues as warlike as a thick shille-
lagh—
Whose only aim in living seemed to be,
As they declared, at least a score times
daily,
To see Quid Oirelond once more Great and
Free-
Set out to reach Niagara as gaily,
And with as grimy and pugnacious faces
As if it was the Ballymullock races.
Bold, sanguine Freethinkers, with wakeful
minds,
'Yet busy with the last Agnostic lecture,
Quite sure that now they saw behind the
blinds
That hid the base of Nature’s Architec-
ture;
Threw all their speculation to the winds,
And, growing weary of abstruse conjec-
ture,
Each one put on a dickey o’er his flannel,
And went to see the man who swam the
Channel.
Demure old Quakers (Friends, it giveth pain
To me, to know that what I write may
pain ye),
Within whose bosoms ran a stalwart strain
Of that strong blood that conquered Penn-
sylvania,
Believing that such godless things were vain,
Were seized with quite a very different
mania,
And went to look, with faces grotving grim-
mer,
On God’s high vengeance on a graceless
swimmer.
Sagacious Jonathans, who said “ I guess,”
And everyone they met addressed as
“stranger,”
And frowsy roughs, whose straw-entangled
dress
Showed they had slept in some unguarded
manger,
Surged on, alike in naught, save eagerness,
To see a human life in utmost danger;
With woolly-pated blacks from Afric’s hot
land,
And oatmeal-eaters from the fogs of Scot-
land.
So that, ere noon, Avith the majestic
sound
Of the most awful Avaves below all Heaven,
Mixed other sounds, such as “ I back he’s
drowned ” —
“ Ten in—come, gents, ten in, who makes
eleven;
Another—that’s it—pass his dollar round—
The fairest game, gents. Under or Over
Seven.”
And kindred sounds of kindred snares to
collar
From mankind its beloved almighty dollar.
Above, the sun that flashed on this same
swirl
Of sweeping, storming, angry, white-lipped
water,
When Jane M‘Craeken (Pharaoh’s Daugh-
ter’s girl)
Brought Moses, yowling, up to Pharaoh’s
Daughter—
That saw the same mad maelstrom twist
and curl,
When Cyrus gave all Babylon to slaugh-
ter—
That saw r Demosthenes full oft descanting,
And, some time after, saw Mahood levanting.
Around, wherever could bo found a spot
With any hope for human feet to stand on,
Men, standing wedged, as stiff as Mrs. Lot
When first she felt the stern Death-Angel’s
hand on
Her brow, some blaspheming, but several
not —
The cooler hands, who, with a gay aban-
don,
Gave back for silly chaff, chaff doubly vapid,
Now backed the swimmer, now again the
Rapid.
Below, a ghastly gorge of iron rock,
A narrow fateful glen, whose walls in-
dented,
Through nameless years have held against
the shock
Of boiling floods of water grown de-
mented,
Of livid waves that ever onward flock,
To vent the rage that never will be
vented;
A seething leaping Hell—a pit of f ary—
The very place to drop a Libel Jury.
A sight to subjugate the proudest eye,
To rend our little faiths in Man asunder;
A sight to linger on, and ponder by,
In shuddering awe, and reverential
wonder;
The peerless stress of wave—the Majesty
Of the great Cataract’s sleepless voice of
thunder—
A sight to point to us our pigmy stature,
And leave us dwarfed beside imperial
Nature.
But hark! a shout goes up from every
throat,
As, swiftly to the torrent’s edge descending,
A man appears a man whose overcoat
Is modest, and whose mien quite unpre-
tending ;
He calmly steps into the waiting boat,
While necks are craned to see the rower
bending
Low at his oars in effort to deliver
Another victim to the greedy River.
Then every voice is hushed—then men who
run
The monte business leave their gains and
losses,
And struggle up to see the coming fun;
Where stable boys are elbowing their
bosses,
And olive-tinted Children of the Sun
Touch those who kneel to very alien
Josses,
And Railway Kings, who with their mil-
lions gamble.
Are neighboured to black boot-blacks in the
scramble.
And standing up, the swimmer slowly strips
His clothing off, ah! never to resume it
Until the trumpet, blown by Gabriel’s lips,
Shall scare the public very- much, round
Tumut.
(For. when the Resurrection towards us
skips,
I know two virtuous maiden ladies, whom
it
Would greatly shock to reap the high Re-
payment
Beside a sinner saved without his raiment).
Another yell—the waited time arrives,
The Sacrifice is ready, quite divested,
And business with the “books” extremely
thrives,
And everyone is “ deeply interested ”
As he looks round him, a last look, and
dives
Into the] flood, whose waves rise lion-
breasted,
And whirl in joy with him, until his head is
Scarce seen above the froth of frantic eddies.
“ Fifty to one, he doesn’t do it,” said
The pallid, boyish, Theologic student;
“Look,” cried the Orangeman, “look,
there’s his head,
He’s passed one rapid, and 1 bet he
wouldn’t;
D n him —I wish he had a ton of lead
About his neck.” “Just see nim, ain’t he
prudent
To dodge that rock—I never saw such steer-
ing,”
Exclaimed the very steadfast Presbyterian.
“Twenty to one, I wager that tlie Lord
Will scoop him at the next o qc,” bawled
the Quaker;
“I take you,” yelled a party, wbio adored
Only the prim Episcopalian Ma vker;
“ I bit the English spalpeen’s dl xrownded,”
roared
A Holy Roman, who had half acre
Of dirt adhering to a leathern sage—
Enough to frighten Satan, even » it Ms age.
The helpless Swimmer hears the far-off roar
Of many voices, that are loud in clangour
About the odds, and sees approach before
The whirlpool, in its wild, engulphing
anger,
Lifts his poor face to the Canadian shore
And yields his strength to Death’s en-
croaching langour;
And sinks from view for ever, while the
talent
Declare they never saw a sight so gallant.
“Oh, pitiful! ” he said, “ my lungs are gone,
Not long I have to live—such death is
splendid;
My children will not have to wait upon
The meagre bread of such as are be-
friended
By strangers, and to me it seems all one
What way a failing, broken life, is ended ;
How soon the end of all may be decided,
So that the ones I love are well provided.”
This in a Christian country! where at dawn
Of every Sabbath, Christian bells are
clanging,
And fat-faced Christians, sleeved with spot-
less lawn,
Are paid to stir the Christians, by har-
anguing
Of all the mighty lessons to be drawn
From Christ the Christian, on his High
cross hanging!
A Christian country ? Truly, for no Pagan
Held money-worship higher than its Dagou.


BRIEF MENTION.
The figure-head of the Ministry: Dibbs.
Gussy’s favourite Minister: Co-hen.
On dit that Gussy will be sent to mediate
in the Cochin-China . .ifflculty.
The other day, aN.S.W. Member of Parlia-
ment read in the Herald’s European cables:
“ Hendrick Conscience, the brilliant Flemish
novelist, is dead, aged 71.” “Conscience, ejacu-
lated the legislator—“what a queer name! I wonder
what it means ?”
It is grossly unfair that Wilcannia should
be so favoured. Last week, three brand-new sets
of cat-o’-nine-tails were sent there by the Sydney
gaol authorities, while two whipping-blocks were
made In the town itself. As a good deal of rivalry
exists between Wilcannia and Bourke. the latter
town, determined not to be left behind, has ordered
three blocks and six cats. Both settlements
threaten that the trial trip of the whipcord shall
be made on the backs of those visitors from either
who indulge in even the mildest after-dinner pro-
fanity. Should the magistrates do their duty, there
will be some stirring times on the Darling.
A Temperance lecturer up in Campbell-
town told his audience a melancholy anecdote of a
Parramatta drunkard who was visited on his dying
bed by a clergyman who wanted him to take the
pledge, hut he exclaimed “Too iate, too late, ’ and
expired. We should think it was too late then.
We never heard of any man, except an Irishman,
keeping up a uruna after he was dead.
Up North there’s a bullocky who has
named his two lea< ers “Bright” and “Spicer”
respectively. Strangely enough they pull togeto. r
with the utmost good-will, and are well under con-
trol. It’s not definitely known what are their views
on the Genesis and Blasphemy questions, but it is
understood that they agree in wishing that that
part of the Bible relative to the creation of man
were untrue.
How history does repeat itself to be sure!
The mighty man Abimllech was crumpled up by a
woman dropping a brick on his valiant skull the
mightier Pyrrhus was fatally wounded by a spear
from a no-accountlman from Argos—and, now, our
own Shark-Island Elias has broken his leg while
chasing his fowls around to make the hens lay
eggs for the Laycock breakfast. It is rumoured
that H.E. the Governor called at Shark Island, the
other day. To congratulate Elias ? No. To con-
dole with the hens.
There is a libel action against the Bango-
long Boomerang, brewing. In a local par. relat-
ing to the clergyman, by a mistake “Presby-
terian ” was made to read “ pedestrian.” £30,000
damages. The Rev. gentleman has our full sym-
pathy We learn that an offer of compromise on
part of the editor, comprising an apology, a sack
of potatoes, 15 corn samples, and a mutilated
roller, has been declined. The editor is now de-
bating whether he shall not supplement his offer
by a cockatoo-cage, and a quarter of a diorama
seized from a travelling show.
We are being constantly reminded that
the most solemn duty of our lives should be to
push forward i he working man. Study his inter-
ests, we are exhorted; look kindly on his failings,
make his career prosperous, help him, help him,
let him live in sunlight, and eat and drink abund-
antly. We always did this in the abstract, but we
purposed the other day to do it in the concrete.
We looked about in Melbourne lately for a
working man—to push, to study, to help. Some-
how, we didn’t find him. We went to the great
organ that last exhorted us, and asked whereabout
we should look. “ Go no farther,” said the great
organ; “it’s me. I’m he. I’m now eight pages
permanently. Can I put down your name V
Another branch line was opened lately in
N.Z. to a place called Wairapawekakau—&c., in the
Middle Island. The customary rejoicings took
place on the occasion, and the engineer, contractor,
and clerk of works, assisted by a Minister of the
Crown, indulged in the usual amount of whisky
and mutual admiration of each other’s great
works. The traffic for some time will be met by a
weekly train. The only settler within twenty miles
of the terminus was produced at the banquet with
great applause. He made a speech on the occa-
sion, but the reporters, when they saw him open
his mouth, fled with horror from the scene, and
have not been heard of since. He was a land-
shark.
Tom Garrett says the public will have to
keep its eye on certain portions of the press. The
public does so already, we are glad say. What the
press has to do is to keep its eye on certain public
men. Mr. Tom Garrett says he is “ an old press-
man,” and knows the strength and weaknesses of
newspapers. Tom’s connection with Bell’s Life
would put him au eourant with the weaknesses of
the press. As to the strength of the journals, Tom
must wait until he’s editing either the Milbubn
Creek Chronicle, or the Darling Harbour
Resdmer. Will Tom kindly get this par. repub-
lished in those portions of the press on which it
isn’t necessary for the public to keep its eye.
There is one police experience which ad-
mits of no exception. Whenever a hard-working,
labouring-looking man, aged about 30, is observed
in the early morning with a sack on his back, and
when, in answer to questions, he says there is
nothing in it but his breakfast and a change of
linen, then he should be at once apprehended.
There is no necessity to examine the bag. The
arresting constable can go straight to the charge
sheet and write : “ For having in his possession
fowls reasonably suspected of not having been
fairly come by—and certainly with their necks
wrung.”
It is an unwritten law of the land that a
father may shoot down his daughter's seducer at
sight. The former maybe indicted for murder,
but a jury would acquit him, and popular senti-
ment would sanction the acquittal. Even people
who don’t believe in injured men taking the law
into their own hands would say that, as for the
seducer, it served him right. If, then, written
laws were what they should be, the transcript of
the popular will, there’d be a statute visiting
Penalties on the seducer. If the seduced, in her
rantic efforts to hide her shame, destroys the fruit
of her folly, and is found out, she has to suffer.
Why should not the seducer be made to suffer, too ?
Is it because male legislation would protect the
vested interests of its sex. Of what and whom
are these remarks Apropos? Well, “fashion-
able society ” in Sydney just now can give a very
shrewd guess.
The traders in China are beginning, we are
sorry to observe, to buck at the missionaries.
Some of these good men stationed at Newchwang
have, by speculations in furs, “boostedup” the
market. “ is a missionary,” asits a correspondent
of the Celestial Empire, “ protected by his eccle-
siastical garment against a breach of the treaty, or
is it permitted to him even through continued pray-
ing to do what in human society is called wrong.”
“ Is it ?” Of course it is. Almost anything is per-
mitted to a missionary. It is permitted him to eat
more, to drink more, to perspire more. They can
either run their mission on glass beads or run it on
rum, whichever they like. And, as will be under-
stood, rum goes down better. We knew a mission
ship that left Australia with enough grog on board
to make half the world drunk. The rest of cargo
was composed of Bibles and tin whistles. They
always tried the Bibles first, but always came down
to a metal flute and a glass of Port Mackay. Then,
after a while, they’d return, having busted up the
form of government and cleaned out the country.
And in the papers would appear long accounts of
the glorious voyage, but not a word about the
plunder. It has been suggested that these good
men should, in a frank and joyous spirit, throw off
all disguise and go it openly. Say, now. as the R&.
ligious Trading Company, or the Holy Pedlar. But
we’re afraid they won’t see it.
The first Speaker of the Otago Provincial
Council was an old tailor, who carried on business
in a shop adjoining the building wherein the meet-
ings of the Council were held. In the midst of his
duties as legislator, tne tailor did not neglect his
private business, and hence it sometimes happened
that, while some great orator was on his legs air-
ing his best English, a little red-headed Scotch
lassie would burst in on the assembled legislators
and address the Speaker as follows: “Falther,
faither, here’s Maister Sheepshanks, frae the
Taleri, wants his new breeks. Come awa quick,
he’s in a great hurry, and seys he maun get them,
if they’re ready, and, if no, he’ll bide till ye feenish
them 1”
Mr. Nimmo urges some grave complaints
against the way in which the Victorian school-
books have been expurgated. Long ago the con-
tents of those books used to be attractively diver-
sified. A youth could get a little religion, a little
history, a little love, and a little of everything
within the covers. But the vandalism of Secu-
larism has destroyed these charms. Moses, Solo-
mon, Byron, and Burns have been “dispersed.”
r ‘ You have removed,” says Mr. Nimmo, “ the
sublime precepts of the Founder of Christianity;
and in looking through a copy of the new series,
the other day, I see you have gone the length oi
clipping out Byron’s ‘Maid of Athens!’” 1“*
collocation does not strike the general ear as being
happy; but it must be remembered that Mr.
Nimmo was addressing the Victorian Assembly,
and, native-born orator as he is, all his faculties
were concentrated on stunning his hearers with an
omnipotent climax.
Major Sargood has induced the Victorian
Government to bring out six Nordenfeldts. A
Nordenfeldt is a kind of shooting-iron that woras
on the principle of the barrel-organ, but is more
deadly. Vou plant it any place. A common doddi
gets behind and turns a crank. You can travel
around there after a while and won’t be able to
find a bit of the place. It does tha 1200 times a
minute. Sargood, who has smelled powder (hair-
powder, you know), and even tasted it (at a oau
you know), assures Service that s*x of them wm
keep the Russians at home. What a good nmny
Victorians are beginning to want is a kind of Nor-
denfeldt that would keep Sargood and Service at
home, too. It is these, not the Russians, that are
likely to sack the colony. But it is always tne
people who sack a country most energetically tntR
are the most energetic in devising means for keep-
ing the country from being sacked. For way *
Well, as Service would say, for obvious reasons.
Kicked Out!


One of the worst drawbacks in a small
community is the inevitable necessity to “harp.”
Topics get used up, persons get used up, but the
small community has to go back to them or
“ bust ” with nothing to do. Melbourne is not a
very small place, but'it is, unfortunately, quite
measureable. It wants a lot of great men and it
hasn’t them. A place the size of Melbourne never
can have a lot. They wouldn’t stay great and stay
there. It therefore finds itself with only Dr.
Moorhouse to go to. And to keep itself from
“busting” it is always going to him. That's what
we call “harping.” Now, Bishop Moorhouse has
been doing nothing this long time but deducing.
His motive principles he expounded years ago.
Any man, with time, could chalk-mark his road
from the text you give him. But it is a spectacle
to see Melbourne opening its ears when the Bishop
speaks, and speculating on the subtle theories he
expounds. There was a slight rest while Joe
Smith and Kavanagfi were at Williamstown, but
the instant the Pathan sailed there was a rush at
the Bishop again. Bishop Moorhouse is certainly
a man of very superior Intellect, but Melbourne
stands foremost as an illustration of how weary-
ingly a small community can “harp,” and, alas,
must do it!
A certain Melbourne publication possesses
a poet of such pronounced excellence that one of
his “ works ” has already run into a second edition
A “poem” entitled “Flirtation” has appeared
twice within a few weeks. This is the first verse :—
“ What is flirtation ? Really,
How can I answer that ?
Yet when she smiles I see its wiles.
And when he lifts his hat.”
There are five more verses like that, only not so
lucid, so that we may reasonably expect there will
be a big demand for the paper when the “poem”
makes its next appearance. And yet they say there
are no great writers now-a-days—good gracious !
8argood is the pillar of light to the Vic-
torian Defence Organization. He is the best judge
of guns and the best judge of powder, and Minis-
ters bow to his recommendations as if he were —
not the sandstone he is—but a regular Sir Garnet.
He was “got at,” however, lately. Some wag in-
serted among a lot of battle-field directions a clip-
ping, in which the Melbourne warrior discovered
recondite meanings. It ran thus: “In using
Eowder, care should be taken to avoid any that is
eavy, as that is a sure sign of having plaster of
Paris in it, which becomes hard with moisture,
and is, therefore, very bad.” The warrior had
arranged for special scales for registering the
weight of powder as per bulk, so as to checkmate
such an infamous adulteration, when the clipping
which originally stood before that one was put in
evidence. It ran thus: “ The child should be
washed gentry in water of blood-heat, and toilet,
not household, soap, be used, the latter containing
too much soda for the purpose.” The scales fell
from the warrior’s eyes, but these other scales?
Who'll buy?
The demon bicyclist the other day re-
ceived a gentle reminder from a London magis-
trate. The bik, man was summoned for knot king
down one of three children at which tne machine
seemed madly to have charged, in spite of the
warning ..f an adjacent policem ,n. Bikey pleaded
that “ it was not his fault,” but the beak w, s not
to be cajoled, and asked, “Do you think people a e
bound to fly out of 1 he way of your bicycle ? ’ and
added that such perilous machines “should not be
allowed in tha city at all." Now, bicycles are use-
ful to messengers, and if they were restricted to a
pace of two miles an hour, and compelled to carry
a peal of bells, an electric light, and a fog-horn,
they might still be permitted to glide along the
main streets in company with the trams. The
trams and the bicycles should be able to kill all the
people who walk along or across the road. If the
job is to be handsomely completed, the right hand
l ootpath should be reserved for buggu s. and the
left for drunken men and bu Idogs out for an
airing.
Melbourne newspapers ar e at the present
time in a red heat of enterprising rivalry. Cor-
respondents are on the rampage hither and
thither. Instructions have been sent to London
for the fullest reports of the doings of exalted
personages, and for the details of every brutality,
even to the heinous offence of snapping their
fingers, which the disloyal Irish genius is given to.
A convict in New Caledonia is not to sneeze with-
out a tremble of the wires to Collins-street; and a
sea-shell is not to be picked up in New Guinea
without an ample telegraphic message describing
it. All this is good in the main, and is to be highly
applauded on general grounds. But the rivalry
runs into other forms which are not so captivating.
In lieu of sending men abroad, equipped with ships
and money and postage-stamps, the Daily Tele-
graph strikes out for a new field, and is reaping
glories which seem to satisfy it to the crown of the
head, though a dull community wifi persist in call-
ing it opprobrious names. Mr. Service permitted
the Civil servants to discuss the Public Service
Bill, provided they did it in private, and commu-
nicated their findings to the Government alone.
Eureka I The Telegraph made a dash, and re-
ported the meeting in full. Talk of enterprize
after that! Th*> Age and Argus may hang their
heads, for they are licked.
There is—we mention this as an instance
of the pleasing advance of civilization in the old
country—a club in London called The New Lotos,
and which is situated in the popular thoroughfare
called after that great and gloi ious personage the
late Prince Regent. This club is available for
noblemen, gentlemen, and “hona fide artistes” ot
the dramatic profession; the ladies, however,
being denied the use of the card-room, in which a
dainty little game (new) called “ Chemin de Fer"
is much in vogue. The editor of the Figaro made
some remarks on the Houp-ld /-attitude of one of
the “ hoim-fide articles'' in the club-room, and
subsequently he received from one Major Con-
uington, a member of the committee, the follow-
ing communication : “New Lotos Club, 314 Regent-
street, W., 17th July, 1883. Sir,—As a member of
this club I warn you, should you insert in your
paper any concoctions of lies, or manliest, as
Editor, any unwarranted malice, to the injury of
this small but highly respectable private club, for
the purpose only of creating a sensation beneficial
to your paper. I shall at once proceed to inflict
upon you that chastisement which you well
merit. I am, &c. &c., Henry Connxnoton.”
The editor rather guys the martial Major in his
reply, and prints all the rules of the club, which
certainly seem to place wonderful lacilities in the
way of an entente cordlale between hona fide
artistes and authors, artists, the nobility, and the
military. We should like to see a club of that kind
established here The Athemeum Club, Sydney, for
instance, is said to want livening up. It would be a
pleasant sight to see Maggie Oliver giving Tom
Price a game of checquers, Minnie Hope playing
all-fours with Dr. Garran, and a Rum man whisper-
ing Marian Melrose to “ sot ’em up.” Then the
holy young men imported by the Old Girl could
hold woo.'-skeins for Little Dunning’s pages, and
attempt, at the same time, the process of con-
version. VVe don't think they’d hurry over that,
somehow! The idea really is a capital one, and we
commend the adoption of it heartily to the presi-
dent and the committee. The moment they do.
they might let us know; and then the whole of
this office will immediately be on hand with benza-
lined moustaches and No. 2 smiles. And we cer-
tainly recommend that Maggie Oliver be em-
powered to collect the subscriptions. She might
do it in character as the little Wlddy Dunn.
“The ‘Blue Ribbon Army’ is making
great headway at Newcastle,” N.S.W., is one of the
latest advices Alas! “ recruits ” are not rtsstminch
as they should be, or, according to the statistics ol
the Army, the liquor traffic would die a speedy
death throughout the col nies. We fancy certain
individuals renew tne pledge several times per
annum, for a little excitement.
He who signs and then “ gives way,”
Can come and sign another day.
When an anti-drink drama called the “Bottle’
was bei g performed at the Britannia, London, ihe
deeply impressed audience used to withhold their
custom from a well-known public house opposiie
to the theatre, but transfe.red it, for the time
being, to another “ house ” ab ut fifty yards off—
the “good resolutions" lasted lor about one min-
ute and a half. Hand down the big drum. Bom
bom!—
THE BACKSLIDER.
My wicked thirst I used to slake
with bitter beer and porter,
And sometimes made tin sad mistake
Of trying something “shorter ';
But since ‘totallers” came, 1 take
No strongei draught than water.
Wanted—A Clean Sweep,
I often sit me down and think
Of pleasures all departed,
I miss the joys a “glass of drink ”
So readily imparted:
It seems to me, I'm on the brink
Of dying broken-hearted.
They tell me I’m a happier man,
In thus temptation leaving;
That drink is but the devil s plan
Our senses for deceiv ing;
But yet, the sight of a beer-can,
Too ofieu sets me grle, ing.
They tell me I was on the “way,”
So perilous and risky;
That people ought to v\ atch and pray
'Gainst ever getting frisky;
Still, sure enough, I feel, to-day.
I d like a little whisky.
I think I'll be a “ man of sin,”
ihe “ Boozer's Arms " is fiandy-
Why shouldn't 1 Just step within ?
I d like to see old Sandy.
Since whisky is the devil s gin,
i’ll try a drop of brandy.


TO STAND THIS SEASON at MULGBAVE,
near WINDSOR, the imported coaching-
stallion,
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
PERFECTION, a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
17.1 hands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. His pedigree is as follows : —Sire Coker’s
Perfection, gs Warthe’sPerfection, ggs Jackson’s
Perfection, g g g s Catton, g g g g s Bay Becking-
ham, gggggs Grand Conqueror, ggggggs
Henderson’s King George. Dam by Old Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for 800 guineas), g d
by Wink's Champion. Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively, when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(imp.), the dam of Kingsdale, winner of the
Hawkosbury Guineas, «&c., &c.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 13 hands high, has
immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony in England, having Avon
over £2000, including a match for £500, and Avas
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION :
Mares left in paddock..
Mares taken to horse ..
TESTATOR
UNCLE TOM
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares Avill be taken, early application is neces-
8ary ‘ GEORGE S. YEO.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at TOCAL,
PATERSON, the following Thoroughbred
Horses
THE DRUMMER (imp.) Subscription full.
8 guineas each.
6 „ „
4 ,,
3
GOLDSBROUGH.
Goldsbrough (the sire of Kamilaroi, Hilarious*
Galata, Morpeth, Carmen, Empress, Tillimby,
Wheei of Fortune, Kaipara, &c., &c., is by Fire-
works out of Sylvia by Fisherman out of J ulict
by Touchstone out of Lancashire Witch by
Tomboy out of Kite by Bustard, &c.
Terms 15 guineas each mare.
struck”GOLD.
T Struck Gold is a beautiful dappled brown,
stands 16 hands, Avith splendid bone, great strength,
and beautiful symmetry. His pedigree cannot be
surpassed (as he combines the much-prize dstrains
of Birdcatcher, SAveetmeat, and Bay Middleton),
Avhich is as follows By the Miner (the only horse
in England that eA T er beat the mighty Blair Athol),
out of Wh.nnie (dam of Whip, a great performer,
and winner of seven weight-for-age races in one
season), by Pelion, out of Tapioca, by Sweetmeat
(the sire of Macaroni), out of Ellen Middleton
(Wild Dayrell’s dam), by Bay Middleton. The
Miner is by Rataplan (full brother to Stockwell),
out of Manganese, by Irish Bi rd catch r, &e.
Struck Gold was placed second to Chester at the
late Intercolonial Show, beating Loup Garou,
Imported Eastley, &c.
Terms : £5 5s. each mare.
Good paddocks for the use of mares, with plenty
of grass and water. Every care taken, but no
responsibility incurred.
Season commences 1st September, 1883, and ends
January 1st, 1884, Avhen all mares must be paid for
and removed.
Mares sent by steamer will be receiA r ed at Mor-
peth ; by train at West Maitland, on receipt of
reasonable notice. For further particulars, apply to
F. REYNOLDS, Tocal, Paterson.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
first-class Paddocks Avill be provided for Mares,
Avith every care and attention, but Avithout re-
sponsibility
MARIBYRNONG .. Subscription Full,
GRAND FLANEUR
RAPID BAY ..
MOORTHORPE
JULIAN A VENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLERC ..
CHILDE HAROLD
A feAV half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclerc
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884. _ ,
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
The following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, Avhen first-class Paddocks Avill be provided
for Mares, Avith every care and attention, but
without responsibility
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Shotv
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884. _
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
£20,000
To be distributed on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To be run on November 6th.
ALL PRIZES !! NO BLANKS !!!
“THE MELBOURNE TURF CLUB”
Desire to inform the Sporting Public that they
have made arrangements for holding a Mammoth
Sweep on the forthcoming Melbourne Cup, which
for Novelty, Fidelity, and Advantage has no equal
in Australia.
Capital £30,000 in 20,000 Shares oe £1 Each.
First Horse ..
Second „
Third „
Starters Divide
Non-starters „
£3000
1000
1000
1000
1000
4 Prizes of £500 £3000
8 „ 350 3000
10 „ 300 3000
30 100 3000
Total...
£15,000
The remaining £5000 will be employed by the
Club in making a book on the Cup and other races,
that is, laying and taking the odds by a new system,
the success of which has been practically proved.
It is estimated that the profits accruing from this
source will range from £5000 to £15,000, the whole
of which, both capital and profits, will be equally
divided amongst subscribers who were unsuccess-
ful in drawing either a horse or a prize in the
Mammoth Sweep. Each Subscriber will be sure of
obtaining a Prize, be it large or small. The Pro-
moters of the M. T. C. are well-known sporting:
gentlemen, and guarantee the above to be a bona-
fide affair in every particular. Ten per cent, com-
mission deducted from all winnings. Drawing to
take place on October 28th. Results posted imme-
diately after. Subscribers who wish to be present,
will please notify us in time. Add 3d. for reply and
result. Address —
THOMAS BENTLEY, Secty.
M. T. C., Melbourne.
It is mooted in certain circles that should
there be a dissolution over the Land Bill, Mr.
Harry M’Quade will, in all probability, bo offei’ed
the portfolio of Minister tor Dogs. The same
circles have also set forth a rumour which would
tend to shake the public mind in the moral sta-
bility of the caterer’s cat. These Parliamentary
jottings, by the way.
“ The Commodore also fined the village
twenty pigs for the murder of Captain Belbin,
which was totally unprovoked.”—Exchange.
Wc can't help wondering what, poor Belbin,
Your worth might have, to heaven or hell, been;
For we've no ready-reckoner down here,
To fix the spirit rate in either sphere.
We only know that, where the sun doth shine.
Your life was rated worth just twenty swine I
Noble revenge, forsooth! giv’n hogs a score.
And lo! sweet harmony reigns round once more I
Ye gods! does e’er the heathen savage think ?
If so, how must the noble Christian stink
In his black nostrils, when a Chief supine
Finds substitute in twenty loathsome swine!
It this the “ salutary lesson ” be,
We boast we teach the child of savagery—
Let us go humbly learn of them instead.
Who yielded all to claim their own cold dead.
One of the New Zealand diamond pro-
spectors brought a magnificent specimen into
Christchurch, which was exhibited as a diamond
of the first water, and j-alued by the finder at
about .f.'iCOO. As ho wanted some money badly he
thought he would take it to a pawnbroker and
get an advance of a few hundreds on it till such
time as he could get a decent offer for it. The
pawnbroker in question is famous for the strength
of his massive jaws, with which he can lift big
tables and perform other wonderful feats, includ-
ing the annihilation of German sausages no matter
how robust. The broker looked at the jewel for a
moment, then put it between his teeth and set the
powerful levers of his ponderous jaws in motion
to test it, and with one crunch reduced it to pow-
der: “Veil, minegoot vrend,” he said, “you vas
ask me the vorth of this diamond and I vill dell
you. If you gets a gart-load of stones like this it
vill be vorth about five bob for road medals, and I
good joost lend you dwo and sixpence on it deli-
vered in my back-yard.”
Mr. Marsh, S.M. (bless his old whiskers!)
objects to people coming into Court without their
coats, and generally d’une raise neyligie. Quite
right. Mechanics, tor Instance, who are called
away in a hurry, have certainly no right to enter
the Court in a garb like that; and we might sug-
gest that It should be made penal for a man, who
does not possess a coat, to appear before Mr. M.
without one. In order that there should be an
\inderstanding in the matter, we have, through
the medium of a distinguished solicitor who would
scorn to take a case under “ five bob,” submitted
to His Worship a costume which is in future to be
rte rigueur with litigants of all classes; but the
dress will be particularly enforced in the cases of
those witnesses who reside, usually in cabbage-
baskets, in the neighbourhood of the Court. Here
now: Frock coat with a ten-inch tail, surmounted
by a belltopper warranted to shine, and hair-oil
warranted to smoll; masher collar, green tie with
a brass horse-shoe, lavender pants, and patent
leather foot-encasers with a six-inch heel. No
thanks. It is our mission to keep the world turn-
ing with suggestions like these.
Chiswick on the River.
THE BIG LAND SALE ON THE PARRAMATTA
RIVER.
Enormously wide interest has been mani-
fested during the last few weeks in the
projected sale of Chiswick on the Parra
matta River, which has been fixed for next
Saturday, the 22nd September. The big
sale last year of the Drummoyne Estate, by
Messrs. Watkin and Watkin, with the very
substantial advance in prices for the
same land, has, of course. Directed public
attention to the Chiswick Estate, and for
the last three weeks —since the announce-
ment of the sale—the locality has been
visited by intending purchasers in boats,
yachts, steam launches, &c., and in ordinary
vehicles by road from Sydney. Chiswick is
undoubtedly the most picturesque spot on
the Parramatta River, and apparently the
only available land remaining for purchase
in building sites. The whole of the Estate
has a coramanning view of nearly six miles
of a reach of the Parramatta River, particu-
larly a magnificent stretch of the cham-
pion course which has already seen many a
gallant struggle, witnessed by tens of thou-
sands, and which in the not distant future
will be the convincing ground of yet more
notable events. The estate has two great
features. It has a deep and spacious front-
age, and is situated on the main road to
Sydney, and within a few hundred yards of
the Parramatta River Bridge, one of the
finest structures in all Australia. Chiswick
will be offered at auction next Saturday
afternoon, on the ground, by Messrs, Watkin
and Watkin, and it is more than probable
that the wnole estate will be cleared. The
Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and
Building Society are the vendors, and, with
a big capital at their command, they come
to the assistance of each investor in a style
not previously attempted. On this point the
auctioneer’s comment had better be quoted:
“Let us see what can be done at Chiswick,
with the liberal assistance of the vendors,
the Sydney Permanent Freehold Laud and
Building Society, 313 Pitt-street. Suppose
you buy a piece of land for (say) £100. You
pay down only 6s., 10s., and afterwards 10s.
lOd. fortnightly, until the balance is paid off.
But suppose vou wish to build a house, to
cost (say) £500, on that land at once. The
Society will lend you the whole of the money,
merely by making you pay, to your own
credit, out of the first draw, an amount
equal to 6 % per cent, of the cost of building.
That is to ’say, the Society makes you pay
£32 10s. of your own loan, and gives you the
balance. Your fortnightly re-payments are
then increased to £3 5s., or £1 Us. 6d. per
week.” These are extraordinary attractive
terms, and it will not be surprising if within
a few months after the sale, the locality is
not changed into a picturesque and pro-
perous marine suburb. Some sketches are
herewith given of the locality, and though
hastily executed, they convey a good idea
of the charming features of the locality.
Steamers will run to the ground on the
day of sale. Meanwhile, intending investors
should call upon or write to the auctioneers
for particulars, in order to acquaint them-
selves with the situation and extent of the
lots of the sub-division. The sale when once
commenced, is likely to proceed with un-
usual briskness and animation.
Should Solomon not pay the £9000 damages
and costs given against him as co-respondent in the
Horwitz divorce case, he must go to gaol for
twelve months, and even then he won’t be released
from pecuniary liability.
CHISWICK, ON THE RIVER— VIEW OF THE CHAMPION COURSE.
CHISWICK, ON THE RIYER-VIEW LOOKING TOWARDS RYDE.


Tom Garrett told the men of Carapbell-
town last week that the very kernel and heart of
our land laws is free selection before surrey. He
did not touch on the question of compensation
before valuation.
Some men cannot endure a child’s crying;
others are distracted by the barking of dogs; while
a few (think of poor dyspeptic Carlyle and his
neighbours’ “demon fowls!”) are rendered per-
manently cross-grained by the crowing of cocks.
But there is one noise that arouses the worst
passions in every man’s nature—that shakes up
murderous propensities in the mildest. It is the
nocturnal cat—especially when reciting the teuder-
est stanzas in its love-song, and being answered by
its mate from the adjoining fence. Before sen-
tencing an erring brother for violence, we (if a
Judge) would first ascertain whether an assignation
place for domestic cats existed in his neighbour-
hood. Upon the answer would be framed the
penalty. There was once—how long since, we de-
cline to say—an Australian Bishop. He had a
secretary. This person’s existence would have
been a long holiday but for cats. The Argyle
Rooms of city feline-life was at his back-door. He
put it down remorselessly. It was never dis-
covered how he caught them, but in his back-yard
a gallows about three feet high was erected
Every morning, more cats could be counted hang-
ing there than pickpockets at Tyburn when
Farmer George was King. One morning, a lady
who missed her favourite tortoise-shell called upon
him to restore her pet if he had it. At that mo-
ment the animal was crossing the mysterious
neutral zone separating the known from the un-
known, whence no cat nor man has returned. In
other words, it was suspended limply from about
a foot of wax-end, having ceased clawing the air
from want of encouragement and wind. “ Ma-
dam,” he remarked with the bow of a Brummel,
“I grieve; I am overwhelmed. But you are late
—too late. The executions are all over for the
morning.” And, if you don’t believe this yarn,
ask one of the principal officers in the service of
the N.S.W. Government.
A terrible judgment has fallen upon a
young man of St. Kllda (Vic.) The thoughtless
fellow was much given to swearing. He had con-
tracted the habit while secretary to a Bechablte
tent, and, no effort having been made to eradicate
the vice, the mild blasphemy of his boyhood grew
until old sailors and wharf-lumpers, who professed
to have the book of profanity off from cover to
cover, sat silent and confused when he came along.
Last week he quarrelled with his little sister (vide
Sydney Daily Telegraph), and then devoted
some lime to “ ailing on God repeatedly to
strike him dead if his assertions were not right.”
He was not struck dead, nor were his assertions
right. But let the correspondent tell the story
himself:—“ About half an hour afterwards, his
sister asked him a question, and, receiving
no answer, repeated her query, and looking
up, beheld her brother, pointing with an
expression of anguish on his face to his lips, which
had been sealed by an unseen power, or, shall I
not rather conclude, closed by the omnipotent
hand of Him who gave the command centuries ago,
‘ Take not the name of the Lord thy God in vain.’
The sister quickly procured a pencil and a piece of
paper, and the young man wrote down the words,
‘Cannot speak now; I am quite speechless. Per-
haps it is a judgment upon me for swearing so
hard just now. ’ This is the real cure for bad
language. It is safe to say that, should the unfor-
tunate lad come round, no word that would not
pass muster at a Band of Hope meeting will be
suffered to pass his lips. [N.B.—The correspondent
forget to say that during the half-hour alluded to
this promising youth had been round at the
corner “pub. So that it’s quite uncertain how
much of his affliction has to be debited to Provi-
dence, and how much to colonial beer.]
The majority of mankind are quite Willing
to let others think for them, and few could give,
if tested, a better reason for their faith than that
their fathers held it before them. It is strange
the term Freethought, which teems with a noble
significance, should be used in reprobation against
those who dare to think. Very tenderly did Mrs.
Hampson, in Friday’s opening campaign, deal with
Freethinkers. Her words, honestly thought, were
not intended to be in the least harsh, yet even the
gentlest she could say was that Freethinkers are
the most wretched of men, who, though outwardly
defiant, yet are miserable because they dare not
look beyon d this world. Then the audience clapped
their hands, just as they do when the clown turns
a funny somersault in the play. True to her
womanly instinct, Mrs. Hampson said in a low voice
“ Don’t, my friends, don’t!” Even if Freethinkers
are eternally lost, she couldn’t see why professing
Christians should be so very joyful over it. She
perceived, when those gentle pietists clapped
their hands, that they were forgetting several hits
of the Sermon on the Mount. And that, we take
it, is not an inappropriate place to look for
Christianity. Mrs. Hampson means well. Joan of
Arc was a well-intentioned woman, also.
Perhaps in this country more than in all
others may be found examples of a noble striving
after higher things, an endeavour to escape from
the prose of commonplace surroundings, and fly
to the romantic realm of rank and fashion. It is
grand: it is pathetic at times, because the struggle
is often so hopeless. What a desperate attempt
was that of the relatives of a lady who died in
Sydney a short time ago, and who advertised her
death in the Herald, tracing like bloodhounds
her ancestry back till they broup ht the poor dead
thing up to the sublime position of being “great-
grand-niece” of abaronet! Howthisproud know-
ledge must have comforted her in her last
moments! Wo know that if we discovered, just as
we were going to die, that we had a great-grand-
uncle who had been a beadle, or even a libel jury-
man, we should have been too proud to speak over
afterwards. Perhaps some of our readers could
trade off to us an old ancestor they don’t want; we
will pay cash for him, or send them a sewing-
machine in exchange, just as they choose. We
don’t mind if his moral character is a bit damaged
as long as his rank was high. High descent is
what we want, and we are going to nave, it if we
have to jump off South Head to get it.
Masses. Roorct, Watson, and Simpson, of
Tumut, have been interviewing the “ bunyip.’
The creature had been dead about three months.
The head and fins were missing, but from the hinder
parts (we quote the local journal) “ there was a
long broad strip of flesh extending, which was
supposed to be the tail.” Mr. Foord got out some
of the lumbar vertebras by means of a penknife,
and is about to send them to Sydney for classifi-
cation. It is a little annoying to think the “ long
broad strip” of a tail is not to be sent also. The
missing head appears a little strange at first but
we have a theory to account for it. The fact is
that John Davies [Let him alone. Ed. B.]
The example of the Supreme Court is al-
ready being rapidly learnt in lower grades. At a
rural Police Court out West the other day, during
the hearing of a rather amusing case, some of the
audience smiled an extra-broad smile, when the
local “man in blue ” sonorously exclaimed, “Now
then ye chaps there, lave off grinnin' in the coort I
This ain’t no theayter ! I’ve got me heye on ye,
an’ I’ll have ye ud for contimpt av coort in wan
minnit, so I will !” Sensation among the rural
loafers, while the local lords on the bench looked
terrible as a bevy of Russian executions s.
Modesty has at last been thrown over-
board publicly by the young ladies of the best
society in America. The newest rage among them
at present 1s photographs of themselves taken in
the way that oysters should be eaten—aw naturel.
They go masked to artists’ studios and pose as
odalisques, sirens, etc., with hardly any more of
drapery on them than they brought into the world
with them. There is a story told of a Now York
merchant who bought the picture of his own wife
in the character of a Moorish slave without know-
ing who the original was. Of course the figure
only was hors ; the face was a fancy one. Some
tune after the merchant went bankrupt—as num-
bers of mere hants do who have a taste for too high
a J^~i .Police was sold. It is now the
chief attraction of a New York bar-room.
Isqw the Greek ladies used to pose to their
painters and sculptors. And the figures of women
in these days are surely not loss beautiful than
they were in the days of Aspasia ? In any case, we
see far less harm in exhibiting a good figure than
in paodmg a bad one—the one action is Immodest
only, the other is both Immodest and dishonest.
Charming creatures the Moorish slaves and oda-
liSQuos mast be! Wo should like them for any-
thing 1 —except relatives.
We see that the Melbourne D.T., under the
new regime, is published by a Mr. Dullard ! Booh!
We suppose he’s one of the fellows who used to
write the leaders.
Mr. Duncan looked over the spikes for
beh'g drunk and giving “impidence” to the
“ foorce.” The constable was a young man, and,
when Duncan asked him if he had a watch, naively
admitted that he had a silver one. “Then you
haven’t done much night duty, or you’d have a
gold one,” said the prisoner. The delicacy of the
insinuation appeared to touch a responsive chord in
the breasts of the unkemnt, for it was some time
before the magistrate’s “ Fined ten shillings ” could
be heard in the Hall of Justice.
Perhaps the best way of deciding the
question as to which of the two Banks, the Com-
mercial or the “ New South,” has made the greater
progress during the last quarter of a century, would
be to get them both to hand over their reserve
funds for realisation, and then to award the prize
to the Institution whose reserve absolutely meant
in hard bullion the most in the £. There’s too
much reserve about the real character of bank
reserve funds.
Ballarat Chinese, intending to take up
Queensland sugar lands, get naturalised before
starting, and thus evade the poll-tax. Smart.
West Australian legislators have voted
against S. H. Parker’s motion for the establishment
of responsible government, in the division list,
eight of the fourteen representative members voted
with the noos. But, then, aren’t the so-called “ re-
presentative ” members nominees?
Rottnest Island is thesummer residence of
W est A ustralia vice-royalty. What an nil a podrida
of dignity and horrors! Vice-regal state; loath-
some, neglected diseased natives; swine rooting out
and munching the newly-burled corpses—Faugh I
A summer residence 1
Some people at Wyndham, N.Z., recently
broke up the Catholic church there, and strewed it
over the country. Jealousy was the cause of this,
on account of the superior architectural beauties
of the Roman edifice. The Church of England
there is only a church once a week. All the rest
of the time it is a sentry-box for a cow-dog.
West Australia, among her other wants,
still needs manhood suffrage. But a comparative
few in each constituency possess the right of vot-
ing, either through obstacles in the shape of pro-
perty qualifications, or “class” distinctions, as
they are termed. Thus, only the minority, that is
the monopolists, are actually represented. More-
over, no one with an old stain on his escutcheon,
to use a mild and hackneyed phrase, is eligible for
election to the Legislative Council, or to the office
of Chief Magistrate ; nor even, though he has
ever worn “the white flower of a blameless life,”
can he be admitted to the Legislative Star Cham-
ber, unless he can show freehold property to the
value of £10001 In fact, every office is hedged
round with the most pronounced conservatism.
S.M. Herald’s remarks re the little game
of the Sydney Benevolent Society Directors are
very neat:—“ When the society was first nut in
possession of its present site, it was probably not
worth more than one-tenth of the £150,000 it is
now valued at. The increase in value has come
through the progress of the community, and not
through anything for which the society can claim
credit. But the public, having given the one-
tenth, and then added nine tenths to the value of
the gift, is expected to buy the land back at the
full value, to enable the society to purchase
thirteen acres where it only wants three, and per-
haps sell the balance at some future time when its
value may be quadrupled.”
Minister Abbott declares that his recent
visit to Tumut will be one of the sweetest memo-
ries of his life, and that he owes the O’Mara a
deep debt of gratitute for having induced
him to go there. Now, this is really (to re-air an
old joke) quite tu-mu'chee, or, as our French
friends say, “Tu(ra)ut ong sweet.”... .The new
Reportof theVictorian Minister of Public Instruc-
tion contains four astonishing admissions :—The
number of scholars on the rolls is loss by 7333 than
was the case last year; the merely licensed teachers
exceed the certificated by 287 ; the work of building
schools has not kept pace with the population
during the past year ; and in as many as 8(i cases of
election to school boards the Governor-in-Council
had to appoint, as no candidates wore nominated..
Narran Lake, H. O.l. Usquebagh (chemical symbol
not given), 2. quantity ad lib., is the formula
recommended by a Donaldtown man for those
legislators who would discuss the “evaporation
of Narran Lake” during the coming session At
a recent meeting of the Gympie miners, Tom Price,
M.L.A., told the.ii the Wide Bay district “required
a thorough and practical survey for minerals,”
and that he would strongly advocate “ the sending
up of a zoological surveyor for that purpose.”
The law of libel in civilized countries con-
trasts very strongly wifi our own Chief Justice’s
idea of what it should be. In connection with the
riots in which Louise Michol took part, the “ XIXk
Siecle, the Intransiqkant, and the France, *ere
summoned before the 11th Correctional Chamber
b/ M. Boucault, a Royalist, for defamation of
character by a statement in their reports of the
demonstration on the Place des Invalides to the
effect that he had been seen amongst the people
who pillaged the bakers’ shops. The journals
were acquitted on the ground that there was no
evidence that the reporter of the XTXe Siecle, in
which the statement originally appeared, had
acted in bad faith, or with any intention of injur-
ing the plaintiff, and that ihe other papers had
merely borrowed the substance ol the report pub-
lished by the XIXe Siecle, which they knew to
bo unusually well-informed. Moreover, the XIXe
Siecle and tne France had hastened to rectify
the mistake. The other ornan had failed to do so,
but as it had merely mentioned M. Boucault’s
Initial in giving the report “under all reserve,”
that omission was of no importance whatever.
The plaintiff, who was shown to have moved
about the scone of the disturbances, was non-
suited with costs.
THE HORWITZ DIVORCE PARTY.
A. SOLOMON, MR. HORWITZ, MRS. HORWITZ,
The CoRESpoNdenT* The Petitioner. The Respondent.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
seeretairies of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.']
RACING INDEX
In consequence of the length to which the
Index to Races to come, Entries. Weights and For-
feits extends, we are forced to devise means for
economising space ; and readers will find the
column regularly headed with a list of fixtures to
be attended to within the month; which will be
followed by names and dates of Race-meetings to
be held in the more distant future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
Dubbo and Ballarat Races September 21, 33.
Musclebrook Non-acceptances September 33.
Bega Entries September 23.
Bega Weights September 36.
Goulburn Races September 36, 28.
Sydney Turf Club Weights September 37.
Musclebrook Races September 37, 38.
Marulan Races, Victorian Trotting Races ..Sept. 39.
Bega Acceptances October 1.
Bega Races October 3.
Narrabri Races October 3, 4.
Sydney Turf Club Races October 6.
Melbourne Hunt Club Races October 6.
Wollongong Entries for Handicap October 6.
V.A.T.C. Races October 13,20.
Wollongong and Berrima Entries October 16.
Sydney T.C. Anniversay Handicap and
Tattersall’s Cup close October 18.
FUTURE RACES.
Wollongong T.C. Annual October 34. 36.
Hay N.Y.R.C October 35, 26.
Berrima District Races October 30, 31.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8,10.
Victoria Trotting Club November 7.
Williamstown R.C. (V.) November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November*.
Coolah (Annual) Novembers.
Murrumbidgee T.C. . November 21, 23, 33.
Bendigo J.C. (V.) November 38, 39.
Narandera J.C November 39, 30.
Tam worth R.C. (Summer) December 4, 6.
Warialda J.C December 13,13.
Liverpool J.C December 33.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 36.
Pleasnt Creek ( V.) December 36.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1,1884.
Sydney T.C January 36.
Tattersall’s R.C. (Summer) .... February 13,14,15.
Hawkesbury R.C. (Autumn) April 3, 5.
AQUATICS
M.R.C. Annual Regatta September 29.
Green (S.A.) v. Wood (Vic.), at Melbourne..Sept 29.
New South Wales Association Regatta . .Octeber 6.
Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club 1st Class
Race October 13.
Double Bay Regatta October 27.
Balmain Regatta November s.
Champagne Cup November 17.
All Comers Regatta December
National Regatta January 26.
ATHLETICS.
B. Murphy v. W. Franks, mile walk
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club September 23.
Newcastle Cricket and Football (Rugby) Clubs,
Annual Athletic Sports. September 23.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
Bathurst Sheffield Handicap November 9.
To Our Sporting Readers.
It being our intention to devote more attention
and space than has heretofore been our custom to
sporting matters, four pages have been added to
The Bulletin, and “Pegasus,” for many years
known as the prime authority of the sporting
press of New South Wales, has been specially
engaged to conduct this department, assisted by
competent writers. A letter from Melbourne giv-
ing the latest intelligence from that sporting
centre will also be weekly furnished by one of the
best and most reliable sporting authorities
in the sister colony, while “Clydesdale” will
deal with stud matters. We have always pre-
ferred to be judged by performances rather
than by promises, and, consequently, do not now
enlarge on our intentions in this matter, being
content to say that we hope to make The Bulletin
as acceptable to sporting men as it has proved to
be to other classes of the community. We shan’t
waste any words now or hereafter. What we aim
at is to convey the most vital facts in the most
concrete and striking form.
Sporting Advertisements must reach us on the
Tuesday preceding the day of publication (which
is Thursday in each week).
Questions for answer should be in hand not later
than the Monday preceding publication. The ex-
perience of our sporting staff is sufficient guarantee
that constituents seeking information will receive
replies the accuracy of which can be thoroughly
depended on.
When “Pegasus” and his coadjutors travel
round in search of information, we trust it will be
afforded them in a liberal spirit. Race secretaries
will confer a favour by furnishing us with any
available items connected with their respective
clubs ; and, without any wish to pry into stable
secrete, we trust horse-owners and trainers will
oblige our representatives with whatever they
have to communicate for public information.
Latest betting, stud news, matches, sales, location
of sires, mating of dams, and naming of produce,
we shall at all times value.
Signs of the Times.
In all that pertains to speculation on Turf events,
the present aspect of affairs is, to say the least of it,
hazy and unsettled. The difficulty between the
Hawkesbury Race Club and “The Ring 1 ” had the
effect of making the usually lively ' larendon fix-
ture duller than ever before —notwithstanding that
on the Saturday there was the largest attendance
on the records of that always popular meeting.
However, the general feeling of the habituis cer-
tainly was one of disappointment that they could
not invest fully on their fancies. As events proved,
backers of horses were well served by the dearth
of layers. The Consultation question is being
largely ventilated by the Press; and, considering
the marvellous number *»f these tempting gam-
bling schemes that have been advertised for
months past, without names as a guarantee,
and in some cases without names at all, it is
simply wonderful that the present stir was not
commenced long ago. We are pretty certain it
bat been well known, ever since the majority of
these affairs were put upon the market, to use a
commercial term, that they were unworthy of the
least confidence, and nothing better than cleverly
baited traps to catch the unwary; but, for all
that, and though thousands of confiding specu-
lators must have been duped, the sufferers have
kept their own counsel—such a rooted objection
have most men to be thought fools. Sporting men
who have for years been accustomed to patronise
the two or three bond fide establishments of the
kind are not likely to invest their pounds in schemes
which they know to be rotten to the core; and
these speculators look on and wonder at the neigh-
bours who pay down their money, without
any guarantee of fair , play. But there are
legions of others, bushmen and townsmen,
too, who are attracted by the prospectuses
put forth, foreshadowing hosts of prizes, which
the advertisers know, from the jump, will never
be paid. The state of things is bad as bad can be;
but the publicity just now being given to several
unblushing robberies cannot fail of bringing
matters to a climax, and driving all these “ bogus”
arrangements out of sight, as they will be soon
after out of mind. A few remarks on things as
they are connected with “ Books ” and “ Consulta-
tions,” will not be out of place at our commence-
ment of dealing with such things.
Little need be said concerning the action
of the bookmakers at the Hawkesbury, that
being a dispute which must be settled be-
tween the parties to it ; but even outsiders
may have an idea as to whether or not the
step taken by the metallicians was a wise one on
their part. If, as we hear on pretty good authority,
the members of the Melbourne Ring pioneered
the movement for licensing layers of odds at
Flemington, they cannot logically object to
the principle being carried further ; and they
should be the last to growl, when what was their
pet proposition in regard to the V.R.C., is put into
practice by other racing purveyors. The A.J.C.
very naturally adopted the Flemington rule at
Randwlck, to which no objection could very well
bj made: but when “ Caulfield ” put on a tax, and
“The Hawkesbury” followed suit, the whole
“Ring” were up inarms. If such disputes often
occur, and the “Books” say a few times, “we
will not lav,” nothing is more certain than that
some other institution will be found to replace
them, and they will find themselves done without,
and their notoriously large influence over the
Australian turf reduced to a minimum. Nothing
can more powerfully lead to legalising the “ Totali-
sator,” than the refusal of bookmakers to attend
certain meetings, wiih its consequent curtail-
ment of horse owners’ speculation; for the
apostles of “the machine which cannot lie”
will redouble their efforts lor the establishment of
their favourite, while many of its present oppo-
nents will join the other ranks, for the simple
reasons that they are unwilling to be baulked of
their wagering, and that they believe the imper-
fections and evils ol the totallsator system can be
cured by good management. But, even supposing
that the patent machine does not make its way
into the good graces of our law-makers, we shall
certainly see some other means of gambling intro-
duced, to supersede the present tribe of book-
makers. Englishmen will bet, in spite of all legal
enactment; and wherever Englishmen do congre-
gate, there will be found the means of losing or
winning money, large or small, even on donkey
races.
The Consultation disclosures need as much ex-
posure as we or any of our contemporaries can
give them; and it is only fair that they should
receive it, in the interest of those “square” pro-
prietors who, during a long course of years, have
carried on the business in a way to inspire the
most thorough confidence in the thousands of in-
vestors who have supported them. We have
known very many winners of large prizes in the
sweeps of Mr. J. J. Miller, “ Janitor, and “Tat-
tersall,” as also we have known numbers of
speculators who seldom or never drew even a non-
starter; but we have never tn.ard complaints of
mismanagement, or any doubts cast on the pro-
prietors’ honour and honesty. We can say fear-
lessly that we never came across a drawer of the
winner in any of scores we could mention, although
we believe there have been two or three other
straight ones-notably the large “Double” one
drawn some years back, by Messrs. Goyder and
Wallis. Passing over the scandals recounted of
late, first by the drawer of second horse, who
received a letter without the cheque said to have
been enclosed in it, then by a speculator who
patronised the “ Sydney Sporting Association,” we
content ourselves with mentioning two or three
little anecdotes which have not been made so
public; and, first, one to the credit of an honest
trader.
At the Melbourne Cup meeting in Darriwell’s
year, the writer was introduced to a Queensland
squatter at the Oriental Hotel, where both were
staying; and on the evening of the Cup, the gen-
tleman from Bananaland insisted on his friends
joining him in-a Jarae amount of “ fizz,” as he had
drawn Darriwell in one of Miller's sweeps, and had
consequently won £900. “ How many tickets did
you have.” said one ; to which the reply was
“ two.” “ I sent down two pounds all the way
from the Dlamantina, four or five months ago;
and, leaving home before I could receive a reply,
I did not know if my money had reached until 1
arrived in Melbourne, a fortnight hack. I then
called on Miller, who told me the money had ar-
rived safely and also that I had drawn two
horses; and'the most extraordinary thing is that I
never put into one of these things before, but
t ought as I should he here at the time of the race,
I would have a flutter.” Thus, this perfect
stranger, who did not even receive the tickets sent
to him, pocketed, or an Investment of two pounds,
£900 for first horse, besides some two or three
Sounds for a non-starter. There is one picture;
ere is another, made up of two or three atoms.
After one great Australian Handicap, at
any rate, so the story went—a certain good lady
nearly went into hysterics, on the Grand-
stand, having, as she said, “ drawn the
winner;” and positively, people, after some
days, were censorious enough to doubt the
ladya veracity, and to more than hint that she Dad
been told to say she drew —we forget his
name. We heard of a barmaid who, In
the fullness of her heart, while talking of
the uncertainty of “ sweeps,” said : “ On, I
know one can’t always win; for Mr. Blank got up
a sweep of £300, and kept So and So for himself, and
then he didn’t win! A friend of ours (but he’s of a
very suspicious turn o. mind) once told us of a
“ Consultationist,” who advertised a proper list of
numbers as having been drawn in a £3000 sweep;
and our friend said he’d fair-to-middling reason
for knowing that “the proprietor didn’t receive
more than two hundred letters.”
“ Who the deuce are the Melbourne Turf Club ?”
is a question we have been often asked of late; and,
as a matter of fact, we are rather sorry we don’t
know, for they must be not only pleasant fellows,
but profitable acquaintances to boot. Any club-
men must be worth knowing who can gull the
public into finding £30,000, twenty-live per cent, of
which is to be devoted to the amusement of
“ The Club,” who will devote the trifle to “ lay-
ing and taking the odds by a new system,
the success of which has been practically proved
(ha! hall); but the joke comes in when we
swallow that “The Promoters of the M.T.C. are
well-known Sporting Gentlemen, and guarantee
the above to be a bond fide affair in every par-
ticular.” So we shouldn’t think I But was there
ever such a piece of unblushing effrontery heard
of before, even among “respectable witnesses in a
horse case?” For such great evils, great reme-
dies are needed; and we must by and bye try if we
cannot propound one.
The Budget.
BY NEW WARRIOR.
Our sporting- friends will please note that “ The
Budget ” will contain all items of Turf news col-
lectable between one publication and its successor,
and will open with a list of things to be done within
the next coming week—such as races to be attended,
entries to be made, weights to be declared, and for-
feits or acceptances to be made or paid—so that, in
addition to the month’s fixtures, to which readers
are referred at the head of our Racing Index owners
and trainers will find in “ The Budget ” an extra
reminder of whatever may call for their especial
attention. Race-horse owners nre proverbially
careless and forgetl ul of entry and forfeit dates—
as we are continually reading of horses not entered
at all, or left in by mistake ; so we shall
1 iy ours Ives out to Keep our constituents well
up to the mark.
On “ things to be done ” there’s not much to be
said this week, the items calling for notice being
but few. Races are on at West Maitland, on the
19th and 21st—last Wednesday and Friday; at
Dubbo on Friday and Saturday, the 21st and 22nd;
and at Ballarat. Vic., on the same days. The entry
for Wallsend Amateur Races closes on this Thurs-
day, the 20th ; Bega, entry on Saturday next, the
22nd; and on Tuesday the 25th, owners wishing to
race at Hay on one side, or Moree on another,
must remember to enter for all the principal
handicaps of both those meetings. We are pro-
mised Musclebrook weights on this Thursday the
20th ; those for Wallsend on Tuesday the 25th.
Hay acceptances on the 22nd wind up this part of
“ The Budget ” tor this week.
It is as well we should refer to the fact that
under the new regulations of the A.J.C., all en-
tries and forfeits, or i cceptances, or other such
matters, for stakes run for at meetings, or under
the auspices of clubs registered with the Secretary
of the A. J .C., must be made, or paid, or declared,
as the case may be, before the hour of 4 p.m. on
the advertised dates. Owners who don’t bear this
in mind may find themselves out in the cold.
The brilliant Queensland-bred colt, Le Grand,
winner of the A.J.C. Blue Riband, changed hands
last week, and is commonly reported to have be-
come the property of Mr. D. 8. Wallace, of Victoria,
than whom there is not a “ straighter ” sportsman
in the Australias. Many names have been given
out as Le Grand’s new master, out I think I am
correct in my information. Tnere is one thing we
may be pleased about—viz., that the colt of the
season, so far as it has gone, will stay in Monag-
han’s care, at all events until after the Melbourne
Gup has been fought for; so that those who have
backed him for the “big” handicap of the year,
need not fear that their fancy will be neglected.
The figure given for this colt was, I’ll be bound to
say, a handsome one, but such a great “secret”
has been well kept, and none of the habitues of
“ Tatts.,” who are always said to be well informed,
appear to have really authentic information.
The sale of Recovery, a five-year-old son of The
Drummer and Fhcebe, who, 1 think, was got by
Barbarian out of Regalia, has also given rise to
talk and some speculation over the change of
ownership. As ttie sale was private, I have
only rumour as my authority for saying that he
brought £500 -a big figure, certainly, for such a
performer. However, those who know him best
speak in high terms of him; and, it 1 am properly
informed that he has never yet been thoroughly
wound up, then he must, indeed, be a good un.
It Is said Mr. W. Kelso was the purchaser (not on
his own account). Such an astute judge is worth
following, for Recovery is not badly used in the
Melbourne and Caulfield Cups—7st. 21b. in the
former, and a pound more in the latter.
The totalisator is to be abolished in South Aus-
tralia, after a very short life ; but the “ Lords ”
have passed an Act which renders “any person bet-
ting, or ottering to bet, in a public place, to which
the public are admitted on payment or otherwise,
or parties getting up or taking part in a sweep-
stake, or in publishing in a newspaper or in circu-
lars an advertisement inviting the public to sub-
scribe or take part in a bet or sweepstake shall be
liable to a penalty up to £100 for the first offence,
and, for a second, the offender shall be deemed a
rogue and a vagabond within the meaning of tlxe
Police Act.” It is useless to comment on such a
sweeping measure as this, and, for one, I should
think that the “Peers” of Adelaide, when they
consented to such an Act, intended to stamp out
the Adelaide racing clubs and do away altogether
with Isthmian games in that colony. Of course, if
such an edict is allowed to remain in force, then
good-bye to racing in Adelaide.
The settlement of wagers over the late meet-
ing of the A.J.C., notwithstanding that there
was by no means much betting, has not been
satisfactory. Many of the metalliciaus lament the
absence of backers. The meeting did not, as one
might easily believe, provide sucu a really good
“ throw in” tor the books, and, as a matter of fact,
none were big winners—I mean, of course, by
fielding. One or two fielders actually lost over the
four days. As might have been expected, things
are rather dull on the trainlnggro .nds in the early
morn; but if one may judge from the quality and
general condition of the nags that are at work,
then we can reckon on having a fair look out for
the “dollars and honours” at the big racing
carnival of the V.R.C., commencing on the 3rd of
November. We have Copra, Blue and White,
Martini-Henry, and Kingsdale at Randwick to do
battle tor the “blue riband,” while Warwick and
Archie are at Warwick Farm, the former being
reported in “Queer-street.” But even with this
slice of ill-luck, we have representatives that I
think will hardly fail to bring the much-coveted
prize over to this side of the border. Archie and
Martini-Henry, and perhaps the resuscitated War-
wick, compose all we have to rely on, and a very
good trio they are. The son of Musket and Sylvia
has recovered from his “cold,” and within the
past ten days he has been backed to win the V.R.C.
Derby to the tune of several cool “ thous.” Still, I,
for one, won’t have him yet as likely to score a
win. In the Maribyrnong Plate, we shall be repre-
sented by a goodly crowd—good looking and well-
bred enough for anything. Of those at Randwick
Fennelly has Super ba (sister to Segenhoe, Bos-
worth, Richmond, Palmyra, &c.), lolanthe (sister
to Kingsdale), and Bargo (out of Guelder Rose, by
Maribyrnong). Lamond is in charge of Bucking-
ham (a half brother to Chester by the Imported
Chandos), and Lady Temple, also by Chandos, out
of Creswick’s dam. Monaghan has three in work—
viz., Yenetia (by Malta-Vlctorine), and two colts, I
think unnamed, by Gemma di Vergy, from lone
and Miss Peri. King’s Own is attended by All-
sopp, and this painstaking trainer has an idea that
Goldsborough’s son will add the great two-year-old
stake of our neighbour’s to his list. When it is
remembered how he won his half-mile at Tatter-
sail’s meeting a few weeks ago, and under difficult
conditions, one may excuse his trainer being a
good deal wrapped up in him. Lord Exeter and
Garfield, both sons of Julian A venal, from Tiara,
and Young Gossamer, are in the same stable as
Cunnamuba, and Mr. De Mestre has a half brother
to Navigator, and two brown colts I don’t know.
Mr. Bales has a very speedy gentleman in Honey-
dew, a son of Goldsbrough and Queen Bee ; and I
suppose Messrs. Smart and Forrester will be repre-
sented by one or two. I shall touch on this subject
again, probably, in a week or two, and give my
readers an idea how our representatives are likely
to shape. Upwards of 110 are still left in the Mel-
bourne Cup—the piece de resistance of the meeting
—and of this number we claim two or three short
of forty. Navigator, Sir Modred, Pell Mell, Sweet
William, Sardonyx, Wllleroo, Cunnamulla, Nicho-
las, Kingsdale, Aide-de-Camp, Copra, Martini-
Henry, Recovery, Gloucester, Le Beau, Despot,
and Silver Arrow are undergoing their prepara-
tion at Randwick, and in my next I will give some
account of the work they are being treated to.
I am sorry to see such a small acceptance for the
Goulburn Cup and Argyle Plate, to be run for on
the 2fith and 28th. But the minor events may make
up for any shortcomings there are in the Cup and
Plate.
The meeting that Is being got through
at West Maitland promises to be quite
of Its predecessors in point ot
fields, though the quality of the
very mediocre indeed. en Kaged £
Mr. Barnard has issued the weights fnr „
field Cup, which race will be run on tb^S? 111 '
next month : and, at a glance, the nr™3of
Stockdale, dalma, Santa Claus, Yatelr 81 * 6 ? 18 of
Despot, and Recovery appear to be the most rpjf* 6 ’
i am sorry to say that Mr. “ Jack ” Thnm
the well-known Victorian bookmaker ha* P80n-
been a great sufferer from rheumatic t€l r
only able to move about with difflmiit„’ an i
numerous constituents, who like him win
heartily wish him better health. vell > will
The recent strike of the bookmakers ..
Hawkesbury gave rise, among other hintl ta e
settlement of the difficulty, to a suggesti^ r i he
bookmakers attending country meetino-o tba t
become members of the different clubs r,?r 0ul<1
ment of the regular members’ fee, and r i Pay *
from Narrabrl that such a proposition wn« ea ” 1
nutted at a meeting of the prosperous cluW s^ b-
place. This was not agreed to. it being Vint that
sldered good enough that any one calling w? 01 ?'
a bookmaker could claim to be a membprn? !el(
race club on payment of a year’s subanUJL 811 ?
while dwellers in the district, ownersW 0 ":
and other such, must all go through the nra^ 1 ? 68 '
a ballot. It was, however, decided, i b elil^ lof
allow bookmakers to ply their trade on nnv™’
of a fee equivalent to the club’s subscrinHn^v 11 *
without the right of membership. The P
Club appears to be in good hands, there him 11
committee of active gentlemen, of whom w!. n L a
° s «
e from thoco ntr :-“Although there are
very estimable/ Ring men,* horn any Club S
be glad to admit as members, it is i ather t >o m., C
of the monkev that anyone who might choral*
excha ge the three c >rds and gincase forabrandlS
book could insist on joining whatever Club*? 1
visited—es i -eclally as the Bookmakers’ Club hniwS
for its mem ers. DaIlot8
There is to be seen at the International Hotel „
life-size portrait of Mr. John Tait, one nf th
Fathers of the Australian Turf, who, throuc-b »
long course of racing in New South Wales and Vic
toria, has by common consent among Turf hnhit.vZ
had conferred upon him the title of “ hmiMt
John;” and the likeness is considered such aeS
one that a number of gentlemen have determines
to purchase the picture by subscription, and nrn!
sent it to Mr. Tait. I hear the business has been
taken in hand with a will, and is soon likelv to h»
completed. J ue
A movement is on foot to amalgamate tho
racing clubs of Campbelltown and Camden which
ought to be beneficial to both, as the two districts
are good enough.to form a strong club. There arc
many good sportsmen in that neighbourhoodfond
of racing, among whom may be mentioned Messrs
Rudd, M. Mullen. Hughes, Warby, Bull, with many
more, and last, though by no means least, Mr
Charles Stanley, who for some years past has filled
the position of boniface at Campbelltown with
great popularity, and who while actively working
up the new institution will think over the many big
races in which he wore the yellow and black to the
front on The Barb, Glencoe, and the brilliant and
much lamented Fireworks. I shall learn more of
the new club before next week.
The “Sires of the Season” series will be com-
menced in our next by “Pegasus,” who being now
at Maitland will also supply an account of the race
meeting held there, with other matters of in-
terest coming under his notice during his flying
trip to the Hunter.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MENS.
Wagga Coursing Match : La Belle second,
Tom King and The Joker divided the Show Stakes;
and ella, Werribee, and Levant ditto the Final
Stake.
The English half-mile amateur swimming
championship came oft on 14th July, and was won
by D. Ainsworth in 14 min. 23* sec., the fastest
amateur time recorded.
Two members of a leading bioycle club
recently went up North for a trip, and reported
they covered 300 miles in three days. But they
forgot to state they did over 300 miles in the train!
A billiard match, 1000 up, for £200 a-side,
has been arranged between young Weiss, of
Queensland, and Joe Byrne, of Melbourne, to come
off at the latter place during the Caulfield Cup
week.
At Wimbleton (Eng.), on 16th July, W.
Renshaw won the tournament for the lawn tennis
championship, and, as it was his third consecutive
win, he retains the Field Challenge Cup as his
sole property.
Bobby Bruce, of Maryborough, styles bim-
se:f champion featherweight boxer of Australia.
“Professor” Miller is not satisfied with the Aus-
tralian Championship, but is about to issue a chal-
lenge to box the world.
In the fifty miles English amateur bicy-
cling championship, the winner covered the dis-
tance, though the track was rather heavy with
rain, in 3 hours 46 rains. 50 l-5th secs., the rate of
going being about 18 miles an hour all though !
In the last Tnckett-Beach match there
were numerous watches on the men, but no two
made the same time. Mick Rush made it 30m
41J4s., “Charon” 30m. 44s., and Mri James Oatlev
30m. 45s.—all experienced men, used to timing
races. Why is this thus ?
With regard to the rumour that he would
leave Toronto for good, Hanlan stated to an in-
terviewer that when in Chicago, prominent gen-
tlemen promised to fit up a restaurant free of cost
and give him 35 per cent, of the gross receipts to
run it. This does not look like a visit to Australia!
Mr. Murray, of Bourke, has lost through
an accident his chestnut horse which some time
ago won the 100-miles race in something under
9 hours, while carrying over 14 stone, and the roads
in a sloppy state. The animal came in so fresh that
his owner, rode him back some four miles to see
how far the other was behind.
The following clipping is from the North-
ern Miner, Charters Towers, Q.:—“ Wanted, two
policemen as Umpires for the Queenton Football
Club every Sunday afternoon. For salary, &c.,
ap ’ly Queenton Resident.” By the way, a police-
man often umpires certain down-tne-harbour
Sunday cricket matches—and Marks and Murphy s
XXX.
Says an American paper:—“Nearly all the
bookmakers are buying racehorses and running
them at the big race meetings. The numerous
racing associations should bar all their horses, and
then there would be less turf frauds.” How would
this act in Australia ? Or, better still, cancel the
“license” of any bookmaker proved to own a
racehorse.
Says a N.Z. paper: “Mr. C. C. Dacre, of
Auckland, has received letters from Melbourne
and Sydney, expressing the inability of the Yacht
Clubs at those places to send representatives to
take part in the proposed intercolonial race m
Auckland, for which it was proposed to offer a
prize of £250. An attempt will probably be made
now to send an Auckland yacht to Australia.
The annual four-oared shell race between
the picked crews of Harvard College, of Cam-
bridge, Mass., and Yale College, of New Haven.
Conn., was rowed on the Thames, at New London
(U.8.), on June 28. Harvard won by 35 lengths or
300 yards. There was evidently some misunder-
standing between the official timekeepers, they
giving three sets of figures, as follows:— Harvard,
36m. 48>£sec.; Yale, 36min. 59s.; Harvard, 35min.
4«Us.: Yale, 36m. 58s.; and Harvard, 35m. £>>ss,
Yale, 36m. 69s.


World-wide Honors to St. Jacobs OH.
THE Great German Kemedy, ST. JACOBS OIL,
stands honoured with the highest distinction
ever paid to a medicine. This is not only the case
in this country, but abroad everywhere. At the
New Zealand International Exhibition, 1883, it re-
ceived the magnificent First Prize Medal, together
with the Highest Diploma for being, according to
critical tests, the Best Pain Curing and Healing
Kemedy known to mankind. In this connection a
few testimonials from distinguishe i men are here
given as an evidence of the world-wide popularity
ot ST. JACOBS OIL.
Opinions of Prominent Australians.
C. C. COHEN, Esq., Mullens-street, Balmain, Sid-
ney.—* 1 One bottle of St. Jacobs Oil cured me
of a contracted leg of three years’ standing.”
Sworn to before Charles Kanlo, Esq., United
States Consul.
DAVID SCOTT, Esq., of the firm of Messrs. Boyle
and Scott, Cricket and Football Depot, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.—” St. Jacobs Oil relieved me
at once ot pain. I comment it to all footballers
unH prinlrAtors **
W. P. BOO l Esq., Tbomas-street, Balmain.-
“ Nothing like St. Jacobs Oil, in my opinion,
for a valuable remedy.”
A. ADAMS, Esq., City View, Hyde, Sydney, N.8.W.
—‘‘St. Jacobs Oil cured me of a sprained knee,
and enabled me to walk about in four days."
WALTER HAYNES, Esq., Manager for A. Church-
wood, York-street. Sydney, N.S.W.—“ Acknow-
ledges St. Jacobs Oil as an extraordinary
remedy.”
J. R. DREWETT, Esq., Town Buyer for Messrs.
S. Hoffnung and Co., Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.'hW.—“ I Took on St. Jacobs Oil as a univer-
sal panacea for all kinds of pain.”
A cash reward ot one hundred pounds will be
p id by the Charles A. Vogeler Company of Bal-
timore. Maryland, United States of America, pro-
prietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their accredited
local representatives, to any person producing
proof to the effect that the testimonials published
by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine.
St. Jacobs Oil, the great German remedy, con-
quers pain. Sold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the world. Price in
New South Wales, Ha!f-a-crown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using in eleven languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Sydney,
Wholesale Depot tor New South Wales,
The lifty-mile premier road race in Yic-
tox-la came off on 1st September, and resulted in a
victory for T. P. Jenkins, of the Bohemian Cycling
Club, Ballarat, who covered the distance in 3 hours
59 min., actual riding time. A. L. Wood, of the
Northcote Excelsior B.C., secured second place, his
time being 4 hours 39 min.; and J. Foulkes, of the
Normanby Bicycle and Tricycle Club, carried off
third honours.
Victor is out with a challenge to wrestle
any man in Australia or New Zealand, bar Miller,
for £50 a side, in the Gneco-Roman style, two falls
out of three. He is further willing to meet any
man in Australia or New Zealand, for £100 a side,
in the following exercises: Wrestling fencing,
heavy-weight lifting; best two out of three; the
match to come off in Melbourne or New Zealand,
at the discretion of the acceptor. This ought to
be a chance for Cansdell to win his spurs.
The meeting of the Sydney Amateur Ath-
letic Club comes off next Saturday, and as it may
be looked upon as the championship meeting, it is
to be hoped the watches will be placed in the
hands of Competent tlmetakers, so that in the
event of any record being made, the time may be
depended upon. At the Eastern Suburbs sports,
last Saturday, the time given for the Schools’ 440
yards was 54sec., fully a second and a-half under
the correct time.
At ’Frisco, lately, an unknown named
Scott Was backed to knock out Harry Maynard,
the light-weight champion, In four rounds. Scott
weighed List. 1:1®., Maynard Under 10st. The first
thing the little man did was to land a clean left-
hander on the nose of Mr. Scott. Who then cau-
tiously advanced and was knocked down. Then
Mr, Scott was knocked do#n again and again. By
and bye he began to throw and knock down May-
bard—Who got nine kriock-downs in one round.
In the end, however, the little man prevailed, and
Scott, who couldn’t rise tb time, was carried off to
the dresBing-room.
Flias Laycock Idst week iriet with an acci-
dent oil Shark island (to fiuote the Rmt), by which
he badly fractured one of his legs a few inches
ffbdve the ankle. We are sorry Elias should have
met with such a painful break, but, should the
limb knit strong and well again, it should prove a
tbost timely and lucky fall for the Shark Islander
Laycock is now champion of Australia, and, like
the majority of champions, has gone in for a pub.
—Deebles’, of Woolloomooloo, being the hostelry
he has taken over*. Elias is no chicken, and in a
couple of years at most must fly the sere and
yellow as a sportsman, and it now remains to be
seen if he will have “savee” enough to make
capital out of his fall by retiring with the cham-
pionship and sticking td his business in the pub.
At the Olyih]Me Club benefit at the Grand
Ofiefifl HoUSe, ’Ftlsco, George Robinson, the heavy
ifiiin of the Club, entertained the audience by toy-
Ihg with two 100-pound dumb-bells, after which he
put both right and left a 150-pound bell. This is
the amateur who had all the best of Slade, the
Maori, in a set-to. A class of young misses from
the San Francisco TUrn-Verein, dressed in bloomers
and deCoratCd with bright-coloured sashes, gave
an exhibition in club-swinging. Jules Rigal and
William MuldoOn, who may Shortly visit Australia,
gave an exhibition of Grseco-Roman wrestling, in
Which the solid mdri displayed his herculean
Strength and the little Frenchman hlS great ac-
tivity. The fall waS won by Muldooil; and a num-
ber of professiodals arid aidateurs gave a variety
fiei-fdrmance.
Miss Saigerdan, the swimmer, who, we
believe; is the only girl that ever defeated Agnes
Beckwith, was a remarkably smart girl when she
first swam in public, and boasted a very symmetri-
cal pair of “ understandings.” Some ten years ago
she was assisting the Beckwiths in an entertain-
ment at Brill’s Baths, Brighton (during the race
week), and her feat of swimming with “one leg out
of water ” was received with enthusiastic shouts
of “ both legs next time ’’—racing men are so de-
monstrative, don’t you know. Her attire at the
time was elegant but scanty, and really to see her
being assisted from the water by Atwood, the
“ man-fish ” (also in swimming costume), gave one
a first-class idea of Adam and Eve—before they
“ate apples.”
A match of a novel character was decided
on the Belfleld Estate, Canterbury (N.Z.), lately.
The bet was for £50 that Mr. Arundel’s horse Slim
Jim, ridden by Mr. G. Aynsley, would follow the
veteran Mousetrap, mounted by Tommy Shee-
nan, over such country as the latter might choose,
and, at the end of an hour’s time from the start,
Slim Jim was to be on the same side of the fence,
and within 100 yards of Mousetrap. Sheenan
started by taking a five-barred gate, followed by
Sllid Jim, .who jthdped id fine style. After several
fences, ditches, and stdekydros had been nego-
tiated successfully by both horses, Sfieenari con-
fided hi§ attentidri to Several atrocious gorae
i'bdces, in the middle of One of which Slim Jim
stuck fdr twerity minutes, while Sheenan galloped
a Way td the dearest pub; some miles distant, where
fie refreshed himself till the hour had expired, and
the bet was won.
Mr. H. Sample knows as much about the
noble horse as Mr. G. Berry knows about the noble
selector. We don’t think the Professor will get
higher praise than that wherever he goes. He held
forth on horse-training in the Melbourne Town
Hall on Wednesday, the 13tfi, and it is a pity tfie
horses of Australia are not able to assemble in
their thousands, and convey their esteem for their
eloquent champion. Sample will bend the steed
to his wdl, but by such methods as will make the
steed believe that the path of Service is tfie path
of glory. That is all the steed wants. At the close
of the lecture a class of fifty gentlemen was
formed, at two guineas each, whom the Professor
will indoctrinate in the mysteries of fiis method.
But, singularly enough, the Rev. T. James has
been appointed to hold the stakes, and if the lec-
turer cannot do what he promises, the gold will be
refunded. Ah, if that had been done witfi Berry I
Here is a sample of Yankee honesty.
There was great excitement over the in-
terprovincial football match between the N.Z.
provinces Otago and Auckland, at Dunedin.
Nearly 9000 persons were present to witness the
game. It was played in two spells, and resulted in
a draw, Both sides were forced-down twice. The
play of Auckland was good, but it was thought
that the heeling-out business was rather overdone.
The passing of the Aucklanders was also superior
to Dunedin, but at times was rather wild, and the
Aucklanders frequently lost ground through it.
The Otago men followed up remarkably well, and
spoilt many a grand pass. The play of the Auck-
land backs was much admired. Their collaring
was splendid. At times, by dribbling, the Otago
men showed their fine powers in this branch of the
game. The Auckland men endeavoured to play
into the hands of their backs almost all through
the game. The state of the ground did not admit
of dribbling being attempted often. The match
was a fast one from beginning to end.
J. C. Williams who dubs himself “ Cham-
pion long-distance walker of N.’-'.W.,” has written
the following letter to the Melbourne Sportsman.
“ Sir, I see by the papers that O’Leary has made
arrangements to walk J. Raynor in Adelaide. I
consider this is very unfair on the part of O’Leary,
as I challenged him three weeks ago, and, although
I have repeatedly sent him letters and telegrams, I
have never received any satisfactory answer. In
consequence of domestic affairs I am unable to
leave Sydney, but I will walk any man six days for
from £1U0 to £ ; 00 a-side. I beat Harriman’s
record in Deptford, England, in 1883, when
I walked 138% miles in hours. Harri-
man offers to walk any man 300 miles with-
out a stop. It he will visit Australia I shall be
happy to accommodate him for any sum he likes.
Apologising for trespasdng on your valuable
space, I remain, yours, J. O. Williams.” If Wil-
liams really did perform at Deptford, as stated by
him, it seems a pity he did not have a record made
of it at the time.
George, who last year won the half-mile,
mile, four miles, and ten miles Challenge
Cups, in connection with the English Ama-
teur Athletic Association, neglected to enter
for these races again until the advertised
time had expired, and at first it was decided
that he should not be allowed to defend his
title to the trophies. He argued that, being the
holder, he was de facto in the races until they had
been won, consequently there was no necessity
for the formality of entering. The Association, on
the other hand, maintained that he, as a previous
competitor at these meetings, must have been
aware that it was customary for holders of chal-
lenge cups to enter in the usual way. However, it
was decided that he should be allowed to start, but
not before George, in his disgust, had stopped him-
self in his training, which, no doubt, had some-
thing to do with his easy defeat by Snook. Snook’s
win was anything but popular, and the Press cut
him up for his bad form in looking round at a
beaten opponent. The time may come when Mr.
Snook may have the compliment returned.
Mr. N. Lookyer, \yho for some years past
has been well-knoWn a» an aquatic writer, under
the nom deplume of “Charon,’ has, we are glad to
hear —for the change means very substantial pro-
motion-been appointed an Inspector of Public
Accounts in Connection with the Treasury Depart-
ment. Mr. Lockyer’s new position, with its fre-
quent and lengthy absences from Sydney, will
compel him to Sever his connection with the sport
in the Interests of Which he has been such an en-
thusiast. Mr. Lookyer was one of the first) mem-
bers on the roll of the Mercantile Rowing Club,
of which body he was for some time honor-
ary secretary, and under the red and white
he proved hlmse'f no mean oarsman. His
principal wins Were : Senior Sculls in outriggers
at the M.R.C. regatta. 1878) Senior Sculls in out-
riggers for the Fowler Gup, 1880, when he defeated
Brett; and the double-scull races rowed in con-
junction with the late J. A. Fairfax, at the Anni-
versary Regatta of 1878, besides a long winning
bracket of minor events. Mr. Lockyer has left a
legacy behind hjm to iovers of aquatics in the
shape Of the professional scullers' race to come off
in December next, and it is to be hoped he may be
in Sydney When the race eventuates to see his idea
realized. The Civil Service, as a ody, will be
E leased to hear of Mr. Lockyer’s promotion, which
as been nlade by the Hon; G. H. Dibbs in strict
accdrdunce with the Ministry’s rece'nt announce-
ment that official preferment woUld depend solely
on seniority and merit.
JohnTeemer, the guileless ybuth Of 18 years
of age who recently defeated a field of the best
oarsmen iri Arrierica* is very hot Coffee indeed—out
Of, as well as in, his shell. Peter Boli, In one match
at Pittsburg, backed him against Rorison for £50.
This proved to be a very heavy betting race, and
it was rumoured that Teemer, in connection with
with Eph. Morris, was going to put up a job to rob
the man who furnished the money for his matches.
Teemer was seen at once, and informed of the
rumours, which he denied, and requested his
backer to take all bets, which was done to
the exterit of thousands. Teemer deliberately
threw himself out of his boat, and accompished
the robbery. After this nlost aildaclous affair,
Teemer and Morris went to Wheeling to look out
for something soft, but their Pittsburg friends
forestalled them by advertising as fellows“ John
Teemer can row three measured miles within a
turn of 30 min. 33 sec. Any oarsman who cannot
row in that time has no business with him, and if
he is beaten in slower time it is a job; but he is
utterly unreliable. As Teemer is likely to be a
prominent actor in future aquatic events, we res-
spectfully suggest—‘let this young gentleman
alone; don’t bet a dollar on him on the strength of
What he has done.’ Hanlan may beat him, but
there is not another can do it; and if he starts
favourite (afl he oUght to) in any match, he is al-
most certain to job it.” Hanlan says that Teemer
is a “rattler,” find will do great things if nothing
happens td him ;. that he hds stuff id him, but he
has lots to learn ; and thrit he pUlls strongly, but
wastes his strength in labouring unnecessarily.
All in all, however, he is the best novice Hanlan
has ever met.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Wanganui (N.Z.) Trotting Ulub is in
financial difficulties Mr. D. Proudfoot’s cheapest
lots have turned out best. First Demon cost him
140 guineas; Bristol 90 guineas —Mr. Price, of
Otago (N.Z.), rode on a bike 114 miles in hours
—best record at present for Maorlland. . Handicap
pigeon sweepstake to come off at Maitland during
race week Recovery has changed hands for £500,
and been scratched for all Maitland engagements.
He is engaged in the Melbourne Cup at 7st. 2tt> —
Sara Haines, a well-known jockey and trainer, has
died in India. The deceased was best known in
New Zealand, from his holding the position of
trainer to Mr. F. W. Delamain in the latter’s palmy
racing days, when Templeton made such a clean
sweep of the Dunedin and Auckland Cups, and
other valuable stakes. In Haines’ earlier days he
used to fide for Mr. Field, of Tasmania, and many
good races he won on old Strop. Subsequently he
returned to Dunedin, went thence to Victoria, and
then to India..,.The Wafrnambool (Vic.) Bicycle
Cmb have inaugurated a 79-mile road race, open to
members of thelocal club only, to be run on Nov. 9.
Bundova, Hippodamla, Tasman, Matanaka, and
Welcome Jack divide the honour of favouritism
for the N.Z. Cup. ..The well-knoWn N.Z. horses
Natator and Armourer, by Tubal Cain—Shell, have
been relegated to stud duties... The wrestling
match between Robertson and Strong for the N.Z.
Caledonian Society’s championship, has been fixed
for September 39— Ween, by King Cole—Proposi-
tion, who ran second to Guinea for the Geelong
Cup of 1883, was quite the hero of the race meeting
at Bangalore, in India, recently, for he won the
four principal stakes. .. Match on the tapis between
Pickering and Hulston, the Zealand sprinters.
Of course for the championship of the colony —
The Auckland Racing Club propose to give away
£4595. Spring £515, Summer £3750, and Autumn
£1330 It is thought the Tasmanian-bred jumper,
Quamby, who has been such a fraud in N.Z., will
never race again Mr. Percy Waddy has struck
upon the idea of forming a Northern Cricketing
Association, similar to the one in Sydney.
•
In last University swimming matches
(Oxford), open to the whole University, the son of
Mr. T. W. Maude, of Canterbury, N.Z., won the 50
yards match, and secured third place in the 100
yards... The Duke of Portland intends to try what
may be called an experiment at Wei beck. He
means to have his horses there in the Winter, and
to send them back to Newmarket in the Spring.
The late Duke, in addition to the splendid riding
school he constructed—a place where you might
almost manoeuvre a regiment—had a quarter of a
mile gallop roofed in under glass—Sylph, ch f by
Solon—Dryad, won the Irish Derby at the Curragh.
Madame Tobias has accepted the challenge
issued by Miss Amy Howard, in which she offered
any female pedestrian in the world ten miles’ start
in a six days’ go-as-you please race, for £500 a side.
Mr. Loriilard contemplates reducing his racing
stud in England, and, instead of sending over un-
tried yearlings from America, he will wait until
after their merits have been fairly tested — Jem
Mace advertises Slade as the Maori chief—W.
Elliott, the ex-champion English sculler, has been
accused by the American press of trying, with
two other worthies, to foul Hamm at the recent
Pullmann (U.8.) regatta. One paper expresses a
desire to see Mr. Elliott re-cross the herring-pond..
At the meeting of the Birchfleld Harriers v. Liver-
pool Harriers at Birmingham (Eng.), on July 14,
H. Whyatt walked a mile in 6 min. 34 4-5 sec., and
beat the best amateur English record—Foxall's
sister has been called Maid of Kentucky —The 50
miles amateur bicycling championship on the
Crystal Palace (Eng.) track, was won by H. F.
Wilson, of the Surrey B.C. The time, 3 hrs. 46 min.
36 sec., was, although anything but bad, nearly 3
min. slower than that made by the Hon Ion
Keith-Falconer in the same competition last year.
. . .It was originally intended to place a reserve of
13,000gs. on Galopin, but, ultimately, the price was
fixed at SOOOgs. The alteration was an unlucky one
for the vendor, as it is stated that Mr. Chap-
lin and the Duke of St. Albans were pre-
pared to bid 13,000gs tor the horse
Jack Boylan, of Dublin, offers to box any man in
the world, at 9st. 10tt., tor a prize value £50, or
£100 a side ...The new president of the English
Tricycle Union is Dr. Richardson, who has done so
much to prove that tricycling is beneficial to
health. The number of riders is increasing to such
an extent that it is said some of the tricycle manu-
facturers lind it utterly impossible to execute
their orders.. . Mr. James Lennox recently rode on
a bicycle from John-o’-Groatsto Land’s End (Eng'.)
in 9 days 4 hours and 40 minutes, with a head wind
the whole way, and seven wet days out of the nine;
and beat Keith-Falconer’s record by nearly four
days. This ride, under adverse circumstances,
is a wonderful performance, en tailing over 100
miles per day all through, air. Lennox rode
a insi year’s pattern “ Kudgo ” roadster
Of the late Prince Batthyany's stud, sold at New-
market on July 3rd, Galopin, winner of the Derby,
by Vedette—Flying Duchess, went for 8000 gs. to
Mr. Henry Chaplin and the Duke of St. Albans;
Fulmen, 3 years, by Galopin—Leoena, 5000gs., Mr.
K C. Naylor; St. Simon, 2 vears, Galopin St.
Angela, lOOOgs., Mat Dawson. Galopin had already
35 subscriptions at 50gs. each. A three-year old
by Uucas-Bally roe (Barcaldine’s dam), fetched
3500gs. from Mr Hughes, of Chester. On
July 4, one of the Bonehili yearlings, a bay
colt by Isonomy—Vain Glorious, was knocked
down to Alec Taylor for 1050gs., who took
a very late foal by Hermit —Stockwater,
for 750gs. Next day one of the Mentmore (Baron
Kothsehild’s) yearlings, a chestnut filly, sister to
Cipolata by Macaroni—Duckling, soid for 1300gs,
Sir John Willoughby. Mr. Henry Chaplin’s fetched
long prices, among them sister to Noisette, by
Doncaster —Hazeldean, A. de Rothschild, 930gs. ;
b c (brother to Bonjour), by Rosicrucian—Bonnie
Kate, 2 00gs., Mat Dawson; br c (brother to
Althotaa), by Rosicrucian—Florence, 1350gs„ Mat
Dawson ; br c, by Rosicrucian—Salamanca (dam
of Pero Gomez), Sir John Willoughby, 1500gs. ; a
sister to a filly by Hermit—Adelaide, went to
Robert Peck for 1600gs.
The Racing New Year.
BY PEGASUS.
The days of August and September devoted to
racing by the principal clubs of N.8.W. may well
be styled the New Year of the Australian
Turf ; tor, as the year takes its age from 1st
January, according to the present computation of
time, so horse-racing in these colonies begins its
year on 1st August, because horses take their ages
from that day. Up to the time of writing, we have
had three important meetings within our borders—
those of Tattersall’s, the Hawkesbury Race Club,
and the A.J.C., besides the Bathurst fixture of last
week, which had to he once postponed from day
to day through stress of weather ; and, as the
Season has commenced in a way to make me ex-
pect an unusually sensational time in the next few
months, I can hardly do better than open my cam-
paign with a slight review of the last four or five
weeks’ doings. Not having been aware, until a
few days ago, that any such duty as the present
would he required at my hands, I have not
had time to post myself up in the many
improvements that have been made in the Rand-
wick racecourse and its surroundings; but I
intend devoting an afternoon to the pleasant busi-
ness of a Stroll round, after which I will not fail to
give yout readers a full, true, and particular
description of things as they are. At present I
will only that great alterations have been
made during the last two or three years, most if
not all of which are considered great improvements
also ; and horses can now be trained and raced on
our Metropolitan grounds with, probably, as small
an amount of risk as anywhere else irl tb® sporting
world.
The “Isthmian ” ball was opened by Tattersall’s
Club on the 11th of August, with a one day’s pro-
gramme of races, which was so thoroughly satis-
factory to horse owners ns to fetch exceptionally
large fields to all the five races. The Tramway
and Tattersall’s Handicaps, at three-quarters and
a mile and a quarter, respectively, induced twenty-
cine and eighteen to go to the post; while fifteen
two-yekr-olds Sported silk for the opening
two-yedr-old contest of the year, and as
many aS Seven and nine saddled up for the
Hurdle Race and Belling Plate. The meeting af-
forded no very convincing line as to future great
races, although Emulation has been continually
running home well in front (either first or second)
ever since; but 1 expect to see the Two Years’ Old
running turn out correct, when Kings Own is
called upon to repeat his performance later on;
and as for Honeydew, who started first favourite,
bu didn’t win, he fairly flew away from a field of
youngsters at the Hawkesbury, when the distance
was but three furlongs. The Sires, represented by
the contending two-year-olds, were the most popu-
lar of the day, such as Goldsbrough, Julian
Avenal, Snmnus, Maribyrnong, Epigram. Robin-
son Crus< e, Gemma di, Yei*y, and Grandmaster;
and I shall be astonished it some of these young-
sters do not make a great name before the season's
out. Claudius, a sou of Eastley, who dropped
from the clouds for the Tramway Handicap, has
failed to get into front places since, though ho has
been a good deal fancied once or twice; but the
beaten division in both handicaps has furnished
several winners, to wit, Soldier Boy, Silver Arrow,
Bristol, Delusion, Norman, Carmen, Lord of the
Lake, Rosinante, and Phyllis; and I see that
Liberty overturned a considerable Soldier Boy pot,
on Friday last, at Bathurst. “Tatt’s.” Club gave
£550 in added money on their day ; and the com-
mittee may well be satisfied with their success.
The regular Spring Meeting of the Hawkesbury
Race Club came next, and was preceded by a strike
among the “ Books,” who objected to a charge of
£6 or 6gs., proposed to be levied on each layer of
odds; and, having published a manifesto, some
fifty members of the Sydney and Melbourne Tat-
tersalls absented themselves from the course,
sooner than pay the admission fee. Miserable
weather in Sydney for some days previous, and
even on the morning of the first day, no doubt
kept many people away: hut Saturday rolled up a
great crowd. The meeting was chiefly remarkable
for the overthrow of favourites right and left, and
the usual backers of horses would have lost hais-
ful of money had the ring been in force to lay the
favourites. Kingsdale did start first favourite for
The Guineas and won, but as after events have made
me think, he had, probably, little enough to spare.
Tuose two Hawkesbury days introduce 1 two or
three previous strangers who have since made
pretty gii'e use of heir legs, and are likely to do
so again. Bristol, First Demon, and Le Grand,
each of whom won a race at the Hawkesbury,
accounted fo. no fewer than seven races in the
following week at Ra dwick, al at weight for age,
an I including the Derby, Mares’ Produce Stakes,
Crrven, and Ra dwick Plates-besi es which first
Demon r n such a second for the Metrop. as caused
his friends to say ha ught to i.ave won. Honey-
dew made a terrible example of Paraphme, the filly
who was second t,i King’s Own on Tattersall s day,
which makes me think that wherever one vif these
sons of Goldsbrough is to be found, ereatter, the
other will be very handy At any late, they are a
long way best of what we’ve seen yet, which is a
feather in the cap of their sire.
What struck many thinking people on their way
home, that Hawkesbury Saturday, was the sa> ly
“ below par” quality of the Grand Handicap field;
for verily believe that out t the eighteen
starters there were on that day about fifteen
of the worst animals, taken collectively, 1
ever saw compose a field of like size, for the
great race of any meeting. Behind the placed
horses there was as great a lot of rubbish as ever
need be collected anywhere; for, despite the Rand-
wick running of Yately afterwards, his perform-
ance in “The Grand” was that of a cow-hearted
jade, who finished pulling and racing at the same
time. Cunnamulla didn’t astonish me; but I own
great surprise that he could be afterwards trusted
with money enough to run him up to a short price
for the Metropolitan, and all within a lew days.
After the doings of that field, the old horses are
not up to much; and the honest little Sardonyx
gets killed by weight, of course. There was evi-
dently what I may call a “malversation of judg-
ment ” in the Struggletown great stable, when
Gloucester was sent out as the trusted champion,
while Despot was in the race; but the little Mait-
land boy showed us what the only half-fit grey
could do, and very nearly brought him in second.
This good performance of Mr. White’s colt turned
out unfortunate for a number of presumably
“ clever ” people, who backed Despot at once lor
the Metrop., without enquiring into “owner’s in-
tentions,” or even whether ne had “got on”
•' Experience makes fools wise,” and there’s been
quite enough experience since the present season
set in, to prevent most people backing short-
priced favourites, through a winter, instead of
carefully waiting to see how things go when the
spring time comes Whether the prim*favourites
for the V.R.C. Derby will collapse, as tbo<c fu;- our
three year old races did, remains to be proved.
Rut, talking of Despot, T utterly abhor “kept”
horses, of which I notice very few come out of the
ordeal with the brilliancy evpeered of them.
Segonhoe began to bo kept after winning the
Maribyrnong Plate. He's been wanted often
enough since, but signally failed of his duty; and
now, wonder of wonders, a companion is sent to
make a pace for him in a big handicap. I
wonder it that was really the case. I’ve always
found a lot more good come out of young horses
that took the rough with the smooth while run-
ning out their engagements, than out of those that
were “kept” after one great win. and thrown
out of work for two years' old Produce Stakes and
the like to the number of half-a-dozen, because
they happened to be wanted tor one Derby, eigtit
or ten months ahead.
On looking at the A.J.C. running, and the stakes
of which the Spring meeting is composed, I can
hardly help thinking the executive committee of
our Metropolitan governing body might well step
out of the antiquated groove, that has been long
since forsaken everywhere else, and give some en-
couragement to two-year-olds, In epteiuber us
well as March. Events of every day show clearly
enough that two-year-olds can be trained and run
as early as August and September, without any
appreciable injury to them in any way. in fact, I
believe those that are the most worked do the best,
as a rule ; and there can be no reason why the
premier club should refuse to encourage two-
year-old running, though they see it carried
on by every other racing body, commenc-
ing operations early in the season. Neither is
it necessary that the youngsters should be
confined to three furlongs, a distance that used
to be prohibited in England, as I believe,
if, Indeed, It is not now tabooed. Two-year-olds
can no more be injured by galloping at their top
for half a mile, or even three-quarters, with 7st.
101b. up, than by travelling two or three times the
distance, as many times a week, for the delecta-
tion of a whole army of touts; and I have long
been of opinion that the best five or six-year-olds
can be beaten at weight for age, and any distance
under a mile, by a fair-to-middling two-year-old;
particularly if there’s a good hill in the course,
like the Bathurst one, up which I see Mr. Mayne’s
Libertd has beaten Soldier Boy and others in a
mile race, the weights being 6st. 3tt>.,
Soldier Boy 8st If there are, as I have said, no
reasons against early running of two-year-olds,
there are plenty in its favour; and as so many
people of influence with the Jockey Club are
largely interested in having colts and fillies raced
at the first possible moment, I marvel much there
has not long since been a move in favour of the de-
sirable change. First of all, of course, the breeders
who sell their yearlings ought to have a big say in
the discussion, because buyers for racing will give
extended figures, in proportion as they can utilise
their purchases, with less and less delay. Then,
the buyers fin I it a matter of great consequence if
they can be recouped, to some extent, their large
outlay for entry money, a month or two earlier
th in in other years ; and, lastly, every trainer will
find his stable room require Increasing, just in
proportion as the youngsters’ races are added in
numbers and value. I hope our committee are
not bo wedded to their time-honoured names and
conditions of stakes, as to set tnelr faces firmly
against any change ; and I’m quite sure Mr. Clib-
born will materially benefit his best constituents
by bringing about the racing of two-year-olds in
the Spring.
As for the Randwlck raees, they brought as
little grist to the great stable - as was collected for
them by the Hawkesbury tryst. So far as I can
judge, (hey have a tall task to find a three-year-old
conqueror of Le Grand. Their consolation for next
few months must be drawn from their two-year-
olds, if it is to come at all. Public running lays me
on to Archie and Le Grand as the two best or their
years, and I can see no reason why the latter
should not be as good for the November campaign
as he has been in that of the August and Septem-
ber. The breeding of the three grand weight for
age Spring performers is so good (Bristol being
by Clifton from Cerlto, First Demon, by Gemma
dl Vergy, from Lilian, and Le Grand by imported
Epigram from imported Legend) that we are not
justified In expecting them to fall away from their
late standard of excellence, and I fully expect to
find them run on through the Spring and Summer
in the same commanding style they have com-
menced with. Taking intoaccount the number of
first-class two-year-olds likely to show at Fleming-
ton, aud the extra good quality of some three-
year-olds, the V.R.C. Spring meeting of the pre-
sent season ought to be of more than usual interest.
The subjoined extract is from an English
paper of immense circulation “ It is also true
that perpetual pensions is a tax on the struggling
tollers of the country. The idea of paying £6000
per annum to such characters as the present Duke
of Marlborough—a libertine, an adulterer, a wife-
beater, and Heaven knows what mor I It is
simply monstrous I” Now, only imagine we had
said anything half so strong as that of a Sydney
man—he deserving it, mind you—would the
treasures of Golconda have sufficed to meet the
libel bill ?


F u
RNITURB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Library" furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES
READING and
ton, and Lamb,
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
1VT0VBLTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
i3l SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and inex-
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances : also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney. _____
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O’Connell-street, __
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s6d; Tables, from 7s fid; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 80s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s fid. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves. 85s. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE— The Largest Stock in the
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
RAWING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs,
just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
INING-ROOM FURNITURE. — Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’ConneU streets.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING and DINING
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
BDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s;each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
W
G
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE—a very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new,
designs.
Occasional chairs in very great
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-streei.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, andLAMPLJspring^^
IRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
STEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
OQ GUINEA PIANO. WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OzVGUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
0\l pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
T IPP 7 S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
ey WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OP
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMBLYLOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring street!*
SOCIAL.
Last Tuesday week the School of Industry
Ball took place in the Town Hall. Cards were
obtainable by anyone who chose to purchase
them, and the price was fixed somewhat higher
than uffnal with a view of netting a profit tor a
deserving charity. It cannot bo said that the
general public made a very impulsive response to
the Invitation of the committee to help them.
There were over 300 people there, but the ball was
virtually a private one, for its patrons were all of
a well-defined coterie—not ambitious of enlarging
its comfortable circle—all knowing one another,
but not particularly anxious to know everyone
else; members of what is known as “society,
taking the word in its restricted meaning. They
had a most agreeable ball, and, as the arrange-
ments were on a decidedly economic scale, there
must have been a good margin to go to the school.
No doubt many people regard a charity ball
rather in the way a fresh colt looks at a tram
engine—with a good deal of suspicion. -They
shy away from it; and even when they
do go, it is scarcely from an unalloyed
feeling of charity, and they look for the
worth of their money. Thomas, liichard,
and Henry of the common world look
with contemplative reluctance at any coin they
may be induced to part with, without knowing ex-
actly what they are going to get for it. Respecting
the ‘institution itself, a universal knowledge does
not seem to prevail, and, in announcing a ball tor
its benefit, no precise information was vouchsafed
to make anyone the wiser. Most of the attend-
ance was the result rather of private canvassing
than of the open sale of tickets; for, owing to
various reasons, chiefly the extra price asked, the
general public almost ignored the School of In-
dustry ball. The select company who went were
probably indifferent as to price; they were willing
to indulge in a little charity when it was so
pleasant, and especially when impressed with the
stamp of fashion. Only a few of the social stars
who, as usual on such occasions, had been adver-
tised as part of the entertainment, appeared on
the scene. Among those present were Commodore
Erskine, Colonel Richardson, Major Roberts,
Hon. Alexander Campbell, Judge Windeyer,
Sir John and Lady Hay, Lady Stephen,
Messrs. F. B, Suttor, C. Rolleston, Watt,
Garbett, Unwin, and a number of officers ;
but almost all the faces of the well-
known “ free-ticket ” crowd were conspicuously
absent. Fancy dresses were scarce, and not
striking; many of the evening toilettes were very
handsom?, though, and afforded no garish in-
stances of over-dressing. Many, Indeed, were
studiously plain. Miss Neill, for instance, wore a
loose Avhlte muslin, trimmed with very delicate
real Breton lace, satin neck ruff; and could
scarcely have looked any better if she had used up
all the colours in the chromatic scale. Mrs. Smitb
wore plain black silk, decollete. Just a faint
flicker of aestheticism lingered about the soft,
lemon-tinted silk of Mrs. George Gordon, trimmed
copiously with chenille fringe of similar shade,
and a train —a rich and handsome dress. Miss
Watt, Miss Lee (Bathurst), Mrs. West (bride from
Gunnedah), a Glebe bride, Misses Gilder, were all
attired in quiet taste, and the latter ladies danced
charmingly. Mrs. C. J. Roberts was richly
dressed, and Mrs. Hennlker Heaton wore a dress—in
fact, the dross, from Paris, in all its splendour.
Miss Brodribb (Queensland) expressed her fancy
in a Student’s character, demurely, archly pretty;
Miss Windeyer wore a dainty Watteau costume,
with cardinal overskirt bunched over a straw
satin quilted petticoat, conveniently short for
dancing ; flowers and a white wig. A really
beautiful dress adorned a pretty girl; it was
a slate-green satin top of perfect fit, and a fawn-
coloured satin skirt covered with small flqwer-
uattern in vivid hues. Miss Metcalf appeared in a
fanev garb showing the French colours, blue satin
body, short skirt of red and blue in broad stripes,
and black velvet cornered bat with rosette. Miss
Halloran, in black satin and black spotted tulle,
black gloves, and large yellow lilies across the bust
and skirt, was an absolute contrast to her sister in
charming bridal white, Mary, Queen of Scots, was
there in black velvet; a young lady appeared
to be dressed as a Gipsy, in a chaos of colour
that looked like a paint-shop in a tornado;
another young damsel set off her brunette
charira in a highly fashionable dress of
pink cashmere, very small in the waist and
very otherwise elsewhere. Mrs. Purves wore
an attractive fancy costume; tunic of light.blue
ottoman brocluS with back uanior vary bouffant,
light ficelle or smoky-white skirt with puffings and
lace, halt sleeves, and immense pink rose on the
breast ; large blue hat and plume, and another
rose Miss Cadcll combined silk, tulle, and plenty
of beading in all black evening garb, and also wore
very large pink roses en corsage. Rouge-et-Noir
was a good fancy idea adopted by Miss Bowkor,
who was trimmed with diminutive cards and car-
ried a croupier’s rake. A good many admiring eyes
watched the “ Bake’s Progress’’ attentively, for
the lady represented gambling in a very attractive
aspect. An Ashtteld lady wore:a white eccentri-
city that was much less admirable than its wearer’s
fine dancing; and several faces were quite lovely
enough to be an excuse for forgetting their
owners’ gowns Miss Gore’s toilette was all white,
with a close-fitting bodice, and green zigzags
across the skirt, little knots of green ribbon on
the shoulders, &o., and a white tulle waterfall with
a very pronounced curve. When grace of dancing
was added, perhaps no other lady would have had
a better claim to be called belle of the ball. Miss
Jennie Lee wore a white satin dress with low nock
and no sleeves whatever : instead of sleeves were
sharp peaked shoulder straps, which seemed to
reuuiro a distressing amount of watchfulness to
make sure they maintained their responsibility.
Across the bust and round the head were great
trails of orangeblossoms. leaves, and yellow
oranges—a pretty compliment to the colony,
but making such a quaint little picture. A
tall and graceful semi-blonde also wore all
white the entire skirtfront being a mass of looped
ribbons, bright and dull alternating. This is the
verv latest. There were several military and
many naval uniforms. Mr. J. S. Mason wore the
evening dress toilet of the Liverpool (Eng.) Hunt
riub having scarlet facings; and Mr. Sachs looked
magnificent as Launcelot. The committee could
hiirdlv be complimented on some of their manage-
ment It is true the German Band played pretty
sirs and the supper was not meagre—indeed, it
was dainty and liberal ; even the fact that pro-
grammes were of the plainest kind was no hard-
ship inasmuch as they served their purpose; but
the mistake of leaving gentlemen to bring then-
own lead-pencils could only have sprung from an
erroneous conception of economy, coupled with
unusual inexperience. Then, ladies were allowed
to find their own way along the corridors to the
retiring room as best they could, and some felt
their position rather embarrassing. Even at the
most inconsiderable balls, they are seldom
so severely let alone. Again, since there
were only eighteen dances on the programme, it is
difficult to see why the list should have been dis-
regarded when half through, with the result of
throwing everyone’s engagements into confusion.
There was no one to marshal the floor, and during
the first hour the centre of the hall seemed to be
the favourite spot for little knots to gather for
the purposes of conversation. There was a bril-
liant list of “stewards,” which functionaries
could be all found by any one who wanted them—
in the preliminary advertisements. These were
only little matters, of course; though they are
usually better attended to. A number of guests
left early, and all was over by half-past one.
• • •
What may happen to a lady with a train,
did happen at the School of Industry Ball to a
o farming girl, Avhose cream satin sup* rlluity was
being whisked here and there over the floor Avith
an airy lightsomeness that greatly delighted the
other dancers. In an unlucky moment, it whisked
on to a portion of the floor which another fair
creature’s partner avos about to occupy with his
number twelve foot. The foot came down ; there
Avas a tug, a startled “ Oh !” and, with an ominous
rip the whole creation—as her nautical young
partner expressed it—“ went by the board.” Like
lightning the lady’s hand flashed round, and,
making one clever desperate grab behind, just
managed to avert a fearful catastrophe. Gather-
ing up the riven fabric, she disappeared for re-
pairs, and a moment after a gallant defender of
his country was explaining to another epauletted
young hero how “ bai Jove, aw, it was the near- i
west escape from a total week he had evah seen.”
■ • •
Why devotees who reach out towards the
horizon of knowledge in a soulful attempt to
grasp the utmost mysteries of “ literature, science,
and the drama” should call themselves Owls is one
of those things that “ no fellah can understand.
An ordinary owl no doubt knows as much of
literature as it does of science, and is as full of
both as an ordinary bishop is of a meek and lowly
heart; while it would be hard to discover on the
face of the earth, or in the waters around it, any
mortal living being with less dramatic promise
than is displayed by that expressionless bird.
Moreover, tne owl is neither witty nor merry, as
his namesakes aim to bo. It is true he is supposed
to be a receptacle of measureless wisdom, but then
so Is a Judge; so nothing necessarily follows from
that. Why the Owls should so designate them-
selves is an enigma as hard to answer as the Ques-
tion where Spicer got his Genesis, or what will be
the subject of David’s next letters to the great
journal that publishes them. Last Thursday the
Owls, now increased to a very large society, held
their monthly full-dress ‘‘hoot” i' fattersalis
top room, Mr. President Caddy in the chair. A
programme of music and elocution, broken by re-
fresnments and chat—in fact, the most unfettered
kind of froo-and-casy—kept the company till nearly
13 o’clock. Recitations wore given by Crane, who
gave “ The Wreck of theHes eru a ,” and by 1 Vren;
solos on the piano and cornet; Professor Hughes
dilated on “ Phrenology;” Messrs. Huenerbein and
Maxted contributed; Sheldrake gave ‘ The Monk,
Mrs. Jefferson ( Yellow-hammer ) ‘ Ehren on the
Rhine” very sweetly, Cockatoo “Jacks come
home,” and Sigr. Vlttorini “TheGambler s Wife.
Herr Von Sandeti, a visiting baritone, was excel-
lent in Mendelssohn's Travelling Song; and, later
in the evening, Millis, La Fo iillade, and a number
of we 1-known “ pros.” joined In the proceedings—
whio i everyone could do by at least blowing a
cloud, or helping with a ripple in the conversa-
tional hum. And everyone sympai hised with the
popular comic man who sent an apology for his
absence, with the momentous news that he was
actively employed in preparations for his own
sacrifice on the altar of duty, or beauty, or both.
■ • •
St. Clements, Yass, was on Wednesday, the
13th instant, the scene of one of the most fashion-
anle weddings that have ever taken place in that
pretty little town, when Mr. C. W. Russell, manager
of the Oriental Hank at Young, became possessor
of the fairest flower of Yass, Miss Emily Campbell.
About half-past 11, carriages were seen rolling up
to Fifleld to convey the bridal party to the church.
The graceful and elegant bride was charmingly
attired in ivory corded silk, with magnificent train
draped with lace, and wreaths of orange-blossoms
and small oranges, and entered the church leaning
on the arm of her father, followed by the bri les-
malds, chief among whom were the sisters of the
happy pair, Miss Jessie Campbell and Miss Florence
Russell. They wore tastefully dressed in cream
nun’s veiling, slashed with ruby, wreath to match,
and carried baskets of choice flowers and ferns.
Dr. Hutchings, of Young, officiated as best < an.
Guests were numerous, and the dresses costly.
Conspicuous amongst them were Mrs. Hayes, from
Goulburn, in brown Genoa velvet and cream
bonnet; Mrs. William Williams, from Brisbane,
(sister of the bridegroom), who looked exceedingly
handsome in a costume of heliotrope silk andbroche,
pretty little bonnet and parasol to match; Miss
Russel) in brown brocade and Princess bonnet; and
Mrs. Pearson in ruby satin with cream lace and
bonnet. After the ceremony the bells rang out a
merry peal, and the wedding party returned to
Fifield to partake of a sumptuous dejeuner. The
health of the bride and bridegroom was toasted in
bumpers of champagne, and the happy pair took
their departure amidst showers of rice and slippers.
The wedding presents were numerous and costly.
Honeymoon to Melbourne.
• • •
The brethren of St. Andrew’s Masonic
Lodge gave their annual ball in the Town Hall on
Thursday, and they showed that “ brotherly ’’ love
is not the only love they cultivate. Sisterly love,
even for someone elso’s sister, is largely practised
by most Masons. Those present who belonged to
the Order wore regalia, while the biggest men,
having more room for display, were bedizened
with cuffs, collars, jewels, and strangely devised
Insignia of office. We gazed with awe on so much
glory, and when their aldermanic-looking forms
waltzed in our direction, wo involuntary sought a
chair—to put our feet under. The ball was a very
fair boom, the vestibule being nicely filled ; and
the music was excellent, the name of the air tor
each dance being printed on the programme, so
that those “poor and forsaken” who couldn’t
dance could criticise the music. They could also
watch the pretty protean picture before them, with
its changing colours, and all its variety—natural
or otherwise—of fairy shapes. In among the
dancers’ rainbow raiment, might be seen an ele-
gantly made moird of slatey hue, worn by Mrs.
Wiseman, who looked so well that we were at once
convinced there’s something in a name. Then
another striking costume was seen, a nicely-fitting
magenta satin, unrelieved ; yet Miss Falconer
seemed to require a little relief from the scores of
anxious programmists who flitted around. Of
course, among Masons, it was natural the principal
dances should be “squai’es,” and so they were; but
the obliging M.C. fell a victim to many tender
appeals from “ crafty ” maidens, and added several
extra waltzes. The sunny hours of childhood
were represented by three very small girls, who
danced a hornpipe and fling; and we can only say
their pretty dancing before thatpublicassemblage
was less open to question in point of skill than of
taste. A tali blonde showed one of the oompletest
costumes of pale blue cashmere and figured satin,
Elizabethan collar, and hair tastefully arranged
with pearls. Just opposite, a stately lady, attired
in cream almost submerged in crushed mulberry
satin, seemed as active in the pursuit of plea-
sure as her lord and master in providing it.
Miss Sterling showed her worth in a nice dressy
nun’s-veiling; and Miss Eastway, in cream satin
and terra-cotta ribbons, looked just the maid that
a Mason would like to “compass.” From Manono
came a Past Master’s daughter, her happy disposi-
tion, not to mention her handsome cream broche
over blue satin, magnetically drawing a lot of ad-
mirers. Thepretty wifeof the Worshipful Master,
in cardinal, was very attractive. Miss George was
the embodiment of lightness, and exceedingly pre-
possessing in light blue satin, honeycombed, and
trimmed with oak leaves—quite oa-k, in fact. Then
a little incognita, with a fair face, was just as nice
in a dress trimmed with ivy, which had sense
enough to cling. Mrs. Hughes was in cream and
cardinal, Mrs. Sigraont in black silk, Mrs. Kron in
pink, and Mrs. Little in beautiful rosepink satin.
, flack silk, endless roses, and satin bows became
Miss Bennett well. A dashing North Shore girl
with raven hair was in black and cardinal, and
another local ornament in light pink. Many grace-
ful dan ers were present, but that throbbing ques-
tion —who was the belle ? —must be faced. A Red-
fern lady, Miss Locke, carried off the honours.
A plump little figure, with a sort of buttercups-
and-daisies-smile on her face, and a blue silk and
silver garment enclosing the said figure, and that’s
she. But poetically pretty was Miss Harrison in
pink satin and tulle, with a sweet fair face peeping
above it; and a little debutante, in white satin and
flowers, was a “jewel” that any Mason might well
■.spire to wear. The refreshments were plentiful
and excellent, and appreciated; and a break-up,
after a tine night, took place at 4.30. a.m.
* * *
St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball will occur next
Tuesday, and all arrangements are well forward to
secure tne comfort of its patrons. The City Cater-
ing Company provides refreshment tables, and the
Naval Brigade Band the music. Messrs. Hunt,
Giltinan, Read, and King will see to the ceremonies
on the floor, and a number of the leading people
of the city have expressed an intention of being
present with their families, in order to (ahem!) give
a substantial benefit to this useful institution of
mercy.
The novelty of such an affair at Govern-
ment House will no doubt attract crowds to the
Fancy Bazaar in aid of the Melanesian Mission,
next month. It opens on the 11th Oct., for three
days, in the large ball-room, which opens on to the
grounds, where two military bands will play from
2 to 6 p.m. daily. Lady Loftus will be a stallholder
as will also Ladylnnes, and Mesdames Tooth, Laid-
ley, and Moore.
* * *
A fashionable Invitation Concert is to be
given ft the Protestant Hall, to-morrow (Friday)
evening, by Madame Marius, who will be assisted
by Mme. Kellermann, and Messrs. Baker, Rainford,
and Toms—so there Is a prospect of good music.
• * •
Balmain ladies generally show up pretty
well in anything that concerns that watery suburb,
and on Saturday they pervaded the Samuel Pllm-
soll, tlagship of the Snail’s Bav regatta, to a most
fascinating extent. Captain Simpson had the mer-
chantman in tine trim, clean enough for beauty
to sit in calm contemplation and rest; and the
ladies accordingly went to their rest, and their
works did follow them, i.e., smoking caps, slippers,
and nicuacs for the young heroes whom they loved.
There were large entries for these pretty prizes,
and, while the heroes rowed for them, the party on
the liagship danced ’tween decks to the music of
the Vernon Band. Dresses varied, zephyr pre-
vailed. A pretty costume of esterhazy adorned a
little brunette; and a commanding girl in crushed
mulberry merino looked grand with her J uno-like
eyes. Miss Elkington wore plain black, with a
fleck of the popular colour; and Mrs. Waugh a
good grosgrain, and in her bonnet the macerated
hue. Miss Broomfied, in white with darker jersey;
and Miss Evans, flowered prime satin. A blonde
from Waterview Bay, sage cashmere touched off
with very light blue; and two strikingly handsome
costumes wore those of two sisters, pure fawns
with a square of check silk caught up to the
corsage. Presentation of prizes closed the day.
* * * ♦
This is how we read the evidence. Moses
was married (to Aaron’s sister-in-law) at Aaron’s
house, at Aaron’s invitation. But the bill for the
cakes and wine was presented to Aaron, who duly
paid it. This was perhaps quite fair, Inasmuch as
Aaron and not Moses became the possessor of the
lady. But we presume that a spree of this kind,
when the invited have to pay the bill, is a jew dc
spree The employes of Mr. A. C. Shadier gave
to himself and Mrs. Shadier, and a number
of their invited friends, a pleasant complimen-
tary ball on Wednesday last week. Mr. Grif-
fiths, on behalf of the employes, presented to
Mrs. Shadier a pretty memento of jewellery, for
which Mr. Shadier expressed her thanks,
and then announced his resolve that the ball
should be the forerunner of an annual
entertainment which he would give — A Buf-
falo Lodge forming at Bathurst. ..A bazaar
and wild-flower show was held at St. Leonards last
week in aid of Wesleyan Church. Twenty lady
stallkoepers, and a full attendance of visitors.
Concert in the evenings Brickmasters’ Protec-
tive Association Picnic was held at Botany on the
12th Inst, llain made it dull, but dancing was con-
ducted all day in the pavilion, and at 2 o’clock a
large company sat to dinner, Mr. J. Martin in the
chair, when several speeches were made—Mr,
John Davies is to be banqueted shortly at Kiama.
Inverell Hospital Ball in October—On the
12th, a costume concert was given in aid of the
Emperor Wilhelm Benevolent Society in the Ger-
man Club rooms, Sydney Next month there is
to be a great demonstration at Kylstone, to mark
the opening of the railway, when there
will be a day’s sports, a banquet for ladies and
gentlemen, and a ball in the evening.. .The United
Stonemasons unfurled their new £50 banner in the
Protestant Hall, last week, with a concert and
dancing Orange is to the fore again with a ball,
which the bachelors will give to finish the season,
on the 27th September, to a very large number of
invitees. Hope beats high in the bosom of the
Orange girl Away in the West, the other night,
the peace of a newly-wedded couple was ruthlessly
disturbed by a band of tin-kettlers. For some
time, the bridegroom tried to disregard them, but
at last went out to try and parley them into quiet-
ness. When he found that the ringleader was a
young woman to whom he had once acted the part
of lover, until his fickle affections changed, he
knew all appeal would be useless. If slighted
damsels are going to make this a regular thing,
there’s a new terror added to marriage —The
return ball to the Mayor of Armldale, Mr. John
Moore, takes place on the 9th October, in the com-
modious Town Hall, which is now finished.. .There
was a Tradesmen’s Ball at Murrumburrah on the
6th September The City Band at the Zoo on
Saturday afternoon There is every prospect of
the annual ball of the Railway and Tram-
way Department being an enjoyable one. A
few tickets will be sold, to enable friends of the
departmental employes to join in their festivities,
which are always excellently managed At
Christchurch, a very prepossessing barmaid was
married not long since to a young man, who now
asks a married man in the building line to pay him
£1000 for relieving him of the lady, and the Courts
are to decide the matter. We know how it will
end, beforehand. The £1000 is probably, as near
as can be guessed, the amount the lawyers will de-
vido, and the two men will get—a worthless woman
between them Lottie Wilmot has issued a writ
for £2000 tor defamation against a prominent citi-
zen in Wellington, New Zealand An after-
noon dance was given on board H.M.S. Nel-
son on Saturday. Some airy jokers allege that
it was a farewell entertainment to Messrs.
Kavanagh and Hanlan. But those two popular
gentlemen had left previously, after having been
presented with the usual testimonial and illumin-
ated address On the 11th the Glebe Point Pri-
vate Assembly was held there, and about 100 ladies
and gentlemen attended. It was the first Assembly
of that suburb, and so enjoyed that it will be
followed in the future by others A terribly sad
event happened near Gunnodah. Miss Smith was
sewing her wedding dross shortly after midnight
by the fire, when it caught alight and she was
fearfully burned. The day before she was to have
been wedded, the bride went where marriages are
not known On 15th inst., Mr. A. G. Kebble-
whlte gave a dinner and dance at Snail’s Bay.
Dancing till after 4 o’clock On the 12th inst.,
the fifth Assembly Ball ocoured at Armidale.
Amongst ladies noticeable were, one in cream
nun’s veiling and ivy, one from the A.J.S. Bank,
and a debutante from the x-ailway station; a
bundle of pink silk who Slalde many hearts, and
two sisters from the Post Office in pale blue and
crushed strawberry, of a good “stamp.” Black
and cardinal garbed the wife of a Crown Land
Agent. Two Uralla gentlemen gave valuable
assistance to ladies at the piano, and all went home
satisfied at midnight Cobar indulged in a
calico masked ball on the 7th in Morrison’s As-
sembly Rooms. Cobar climate must have a very
rough effect on beauty when the girls there think
they stand a better chance with their faces
masked.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
N.S.W. Artillery Athletic Sports (Victoria
Barracks)—Invitation Sept. 30
Mercantile Prov. Assurance Soiree (Tatter-
sail’s) Sept. 31
Madame Marius’s Concert (Prot. Hall) Sept. 31
Sydney A. A. Club Sports Sept. 23
St. Vincent’s Annual Ball (Exhibition) Sept. 35
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) Sept. 35
Railway Officers’ Picnic (Botany) Sept. 36
Railway and Tramway Ball (Exhibition). ...Sept. 37
Parramatta Rowing - Club Ball Sept. 38
N.S.W. Athletic Club Sports Sept. 39
Art Society’s Show opens (Town Hall) Oct. 1
Fancy Bazaar (Govt. House) ..Oct. 11
Produce Merchants’ Prot. Assurance Picnic..Oct. 11
Builders and Contractors’ Picnic (Botany).. .Oct. 16
*** Notices of all interesting Social Events (pro-
perly authenticated by the names and addresses of
the writers) will be inserted.


Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 18th September, 1883.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Additions, &c.. Post and Tele
graph Office, Wentworth.
Bridge over Hall’s Creek, road
Narrabrito Moree.
Bridge over Tycannah Creek,
road Narrabrl to Moree.
Bridge over Albion Creek, road
Tinonee to Redbank.
Contract 1 to 4m, road Bowna tc
Welaregang
Construction of Line of Railway
from Cootaraundra to Gun-
dagai.
Advertising in Tramoars.
Alterations and Additions tc
Public Wharf, Moruya
For Posting Advertisements and
right to Bookstalls at Railway
Stations
Bridge at Old Mill-road, Liver-
pool to Carapbelltown
Construction of Horse Boat for
Laurieton, Camden Haven
River
Contract 7m, road Turnberumba
to Walaregang
Repairs to Watchhousc, Erskine
and Clarence-streets, Sydney
Wharf, &c„ Garden Island
Bridge over Sandy Creek-road,
Armidale to Inverell
Erection of Goods Shed, at Bai-
ling, Richmond River
Erection of Wharf, at Seven
Oaks, Macleay River
Supply of Small Stores, Railway
Department, 1884
Cast Iron Cylinders for Bridges
on the Railway Extension
Homebush to Waratah
Erection of New Courthouse,
Deniliquin
Erection of Police Buildings,
Tenterfleld
Erection of Gaol, Bathurst
Bridge over Burrowa River, at
Coffey’s Crossing
Extension of Breakwater, Mo-
ruya
Construction of Works, drd Sec-
tion Illawarra Railway.
Renting Refreshment - room,
Penrith Railway Station
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
I
35th September
, at 11 o’clock.
1
)
I
>
I
2nd October,
at 11 o’clock.
9th October,
at II o’clock.
16th October,
at 11 o’clock.
/
I 33rd October,
I at 11 o’clock.
I 30th October,
I at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 31st August, 1883.
LAND SALE.
ATTENTION is ealled to a Sale of Drown
Lauds, to be held at the Land Office
Parramatta, on the 26th September. 1883*
comprising lands, in County of Cumberland.’
Parish ot Field of Mars,
, . . Town Lots.
At the town of North Parramatta, fronting
Grose, Fennel, Harold, and Albert streets, and
Buller and M Arthur streets.
For further particulars see Gazette of 35th
August. 1883, No, 351, at Police Office or local Land
J. S. PARNELL.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
18th September, 1883.
TO ENGINEERS, CONTRACTORS, BUILDERS
AND OTHERS. 3
STEAM LAUNDRY AT QUARANTINE STA-
TION, SPRING COVE.
TENDERS will be received at the Treasurv
until noon of TUESDAY, the 2nd dav of
October, for the Erection and Completion of a
Steam Laundry at the Quarantine Station, in ac-
cordance with plans and specifications, and under
general conditions, to be seen at this office
The site of the proposed work will be pointed
out by the Superintending Officer at the Quarantine
& eRLlOH «
The tenderers must state the term within which
he will undertake to complete the contract, and
each tender must be accompanied by a Treasurv
receipt for £300, to be held as security for the due
performance of contract.
ctMbed lowest 01 any tendGr not necessarily ac-
„ 'Fenders must be addressed to “ The Under-
Secretary lor Finance and Trade,” and delivered
at the Treasury, Macquarie-streot, and should be
tine°slation,- eQder f0V SLeam Laundry - Quaran-
GEORGE R, D1BBS.
_ Sydney, 18th September.
Deah Belle, —During the past week 1 have been
all among the A mateurs. On Monday evening, the
10th, I was present at a Concert given in St. Mat-
thew’s Hall, Wooilahra, in aid of the funds of the
Alexandra Cricket Clu o. I here were only twenty-
two items on th'6 programme. One or two of these
Were omitted, but encores brought up the number
to tWGhty-tive (I hope you feel for me.) The best
fn my opinion were “O sainted Mother,’ 1 a duet by
Mrs. Innes and Miss Dernelly; a Spanish waltz, by
St. Mark’s handbell-ringers; a saxophone solo, air
varie, by Mrs. Lemaire (best of all); and a recitation
by Mr. Teece, “The Little Hero.” Four or five
comic (?) songs were given; but, though they
seemed to afford intense delight and amusement
to a considerable number of young men and boys,
present, I couldn’t find anything to laugh at in any
of them. To my mind, they seemed to be remark-
able only for stupid and vulgar buffoonery, and to
be quite destitute of the faintest gleam of humour.
I cannot say much for the manners of the young
gentlemen at the lower end of the hall, who, while
the Hon. John Macintosh was addressing the audi-
ence, kept stamping their feet on the floor so as to
drown his voice. The hall was quite full, and so
far as attendance was concerned, I should say the
concert was a success.
We had a very pleasant evening at the Gymna-
sium on the 13th, when the comedy - drama,
“Alone,” in three acts, followed by a musical en-
tertainment, was given for the 'benefit of tne
Liver pool-street Social and Dramatic Society. The
acting of Miss Stanley, as Mrs. Thornton, was won-
derful for an amateur. She was the life and soul
of the piece. Miss Brownlow, as Maude Trevor,
was also very good, though at first she seemed
timid, and her voice in consequence was rather
low; but afterwards she did well, and looked very
pretty and artless. Miss Banning, as the maid,
looked neat and charming. Mr. B. Paterson, as
the Colonel, at tirst was evidently nervous, but
gained courage as the piece progressed, and did
much better towards the end. Mr. A. Stanley did
his best, and Mr. S. Stanley was too young. The
scenery was creditable. Mrs. Stanley accompanied
In the musical part, and Messrs. Fitzgerald, Kodd
and Ireloar sang various pieces. Mr. K. Palmer
gave the “ Mad Butcher,” and did it very well
The only question is, was it worth doing at all ?
Every seat in the Gymnasium was taken, so I hope
the society will now be able to purchase its piano.
On Friday we went to see the Wild Flower Show
at Manly. The steamers were so crowded that
many ladies were obliged to stand both going and
returning. lyanhoc Park looked charmingly gay
and festive, decorated with festoons of dags, and
with groups of ladies beautifully dressed prome-
nading abodt inSIde. The pavfltofl ffma Mke U fair*/
{lower. The arraPgenlent df tllte UoWerS Showed
Very great skill', patient ttM Study. The more
we looked, the roofb We wondered at the work
dune. WHat tramping there must have been over
the hllw, and glens ; what peering into nooks, and
climbing into clefts, and weary travelling over
miles or ground ; what ransacking of scrub and
undergrowth and dales and vales to get those
myriads of mites of flowers ! Yes, and what deli-
d'ons spooning in the gullies I And then home to
After up the sitting-rooms and verandahs with bits
and branches, sprigs and sprays, to be worked into
many a thing of beauty, but, alas, not a Joy for
over. I don’t know who did It all, Belle ; I only
wonder It was ever done. Lord Augustus was
really interested—It wasn’t a diplomatic sem-
blance this time. All the great men, too, visited
the show. A circular stall, beautifully arranged,
was In the rotunda porch, and; 111 thb main pavi-
lion, which was VCfy clean, were arches right
across, of foliage, palms and twiners, while the
raitrb Was full of stands covered with ferns,
Sraghorns, sprigs, and flowers of all sorts. For
novelty, a Japanese garden was queer. A looking-
glass formed a lake, on which were boats and
sWans, while the mossy banks were most artisti-
cally built. It was on the stall of Mesdames Howe
and Warburton. There was a bridal wreatli of
little snow flowers and rdek Illy; sfl lovely that all
the ladies—above ftfttiCn—kept their eyes on it,
W be brides at once. But that’s a
ladies have got, anyhow. The bridal bouquet
tn Miss Stubbs was so natural and charming
that it fetched a guinea, as well as first prize.
A m j head of the room, a sort of sanctum was
railed off to protect a magnificent pyramid (by
M rs. Morris and Miss Miller), nearly four feet high,
or solid floral beauty. Dados, of squares of
separate flowers massed in different colours,
Hanked it, and a splendid Prince of Wales feather
of rock lilies crowned it. It was a stall of Brob-
dignagiau designs; the others were Llliputiaus, or,
1 might say, lili-piii-putians. Among the emblems
Of ingenuity and industry were kangaroo and
emu, crown and shield, anchors, crosses and hearts,
tennis bafs, a harp with yellow strings, a carpet
bed, wall tapestry and screens, a Union Jack,
and lots of bouquets. The prise-takers (I’ll put
them in a bouquet) like their flowers) were Mes-
aames Augustus Morris) C. H. Hayes, W. M.
Jackson, Willis, George smith, Metcalfe, Tedd,
ihornton; and Misses Miller, Stubbs, Smith, Met-
calfe, UndofWood, Woods—and Lumsdaine and
, T !t >oh, for painting flowers. I think the Misses
-inderwood again got most prizes. The Public
TChooi children also received some. Manly air
must be very invigorating; it makes native roses
bloom beautifully on some of the girls’ cheeks.
On Friday, about 2000 people visited the show, and
the Nelson Rand played. On Saturday, about 4000,
and the City Band went through a programme:
there were native flowers even in this, viz., Corn-
stalk Polka (Thornton), Bulwara Waltz (Stevens),
and Brighton Galop (Button)—all native pieces,
l saw some lovely dresses on the park and pavilion,
several very pretty white ones were among them.
One of the latter had sleeves and collar of black
velvet, and another had stripes of black velvet
down the skirt. A beautiful costume was of
golden brown plush and satin, the sleeves and kilt-
ing at the bottom of skirt of satin, the bodice and
tunic of plush. A quaintly-shaped brown straw
nat, trimmed with a band of velvet the same
colour, gold beads round the brim, looked very
nice with this. Another rich and stylish dress was
an electric - blue the back of the skirt
arranged in two large putt's; hat to match. A dark
brown satin and velvet skirt, with jacket of brown
and crimson oriental pattern, a small straw bonnet
■with clusters of golden grapes, or currants, looked
cldgant. Another which attracted me was of
different shades of green, long redingote of dark
green velvet over a skirt of lighter shade, and
bonnet of fancy straw, paler green. Checked
materials much favoured. The best was a very
long jacket of small check, in black and grey silk,
over a black skirt. A curious looking combination
was a brownish-grey satin top with maroon satin
Skirt. A white dress, trimmed with bands of Kate
Greenaway pattern sateen looked summer-like;
while a bright grass-green satin bodice and tunic
over a white skirt was quite a Spring costume. A
young lady with a silk dress of large check yfqre a
Very fanciful hat of white plush with a large green
bird with outstretched wings at one side, and a long
variegated feather at the other. Two or throe hats
wore enormous.
On Saturday the attendance at the Eastern
suburbs athletic sports was not so large ae it
wuuld have been, most probably, but lor the
counter attractions of the Flower Show at Manly,
the Zoo., and the Snail’s Ray Regatta. There wore
a good many ladies on the lawn and grand stand,
and some nice costumes among them, and a great
variety in hats. One very uncommon shape was
like a man-of-war’s-man’s cap in straw—it spread
out large and flat at the top, and had a white
feather resting on the forehead of the wearer.
Another was tall and steepleshaped, with narrow
brim; it was trimmed with a band of black velvet
kfm white feather. One remarkable get-up at-
tracted much notice: the skirt of cornflower blue
silk was made perfectly plain, and distended over
a decided crinoline; a white jacket bodice
and large straw hat, completed the costume. Two
girls looked very nice in cream nun’s veiling or
cashmere polonaises, the edges cut turret-shape,
and navy-blue broche skirts, straw hats with cream
trimming. The best of those I saw was a very
large and long mantle of rich black satin over
heliotrope silk skirt, a black bonnet with small
sunflowers at one side. A claret coloured brochd
and satin, with cream laco trimming, looked well,
and a Kate Greenaway sateen bright and pretty.
A shrimp pink cashmere, made with long pleats
from the waist In front and one largo puff at the
back, black velvet belt, was quaint and uncommon
looking. I saw a pretty biscuit-coloured cash-
mere and satin. There are so many checked
patterns seen about now, that one would imagine
a gathering of the clans was taking place. I saw
a gentleman the other day who looked like a chess-
board. On board the Manly boat, on Friday, wo
had a splendid specimen of the masher (what an
ugly word it is) opposite us; he had a bunch of
violets at his throat, like a girl, and sat pensively
sucking the head of his cane, his eyelids drooping
m most lackadaisical stylo all the while. Wo
named him the “melancholy masher.” I noticed
that though a number of ladies, old and young,
were standing all round, he never offered any of
them his place! perhaps ho didn’t like altering his
pose, which was evidently a matter of consider-
able study.
I am tired after all the rushing about I have had
lately, and so, good-bye.
Yours,
MAR.
SPORTING —continued from page 15,
GOULBURN TURF CLUB RACES,
StiPTHMHEtt 38 and 38;
The following acceptances have been in ltd e for
the principal handicaps
GOULBURN CUP.
„ . . St lb st lb
Balmoral .. .. 8 9 Friendship .. .. (5 13
m va . ..7 8 Carissima .. ..6 9
Twelve Years ..74 Hope 67
Rosinante .. .. 73 Footprint .. .. 6 6
Silver Arrow ..70 Peeping Tom ... 6 4
. w ARGyLfi PLATE.
ps&:: :: U msdsp. ■: 5 f
7 11 Carissima .. .. 6 13
Kelso ..78 Hope 6 10
Twelve Years ..7 7 Footprint .. ..6 7
Rosinante .. .. 7 5 Peeping Tom .. 6 0
NARRABRI JOCKEY CLUB RACES,
October 3 and 4.
Acceptances as follows
Town Plate.— Lochinvar, Gladiator, Verdict,
Twelve Years, Sancho Panza, Flying Column,
Royal Mall, Royalist, Tricotrin, Recovery, Faust,
Brin, Daughter of the Regiment, Darrlwell, Epi-
cure, Affection, Highlander, Godiva, Hazard,
Hesitation, Sunlight, Blazes, Revenge, Nap, Zara,
Woodstock,
JUitMihit JOjhtflr CLtfB Handicap.—Lochin-
var, Gladiator, Erin, DailgHtef of the Regiment,
Royal Mail, Royalist, Tricotrin, Recovery, Faust,
Hesitation, Sancho Panza, Epicure, Affection,
Highlander, Godiva, Hazard, Twelve Years,
Blazes, Nap, Zara, Woodstock.
Sporting Notes from Melbourne.
as soon as the Caulfield Handicap was posted,
backers evinced a desire to rush to the support of
Josephine, who had for some time previously been
put about as a Rood thing. Certainly, with 6st.
131b. she has nothing to complain of, but a mile
has generally hitherto been the extent of her
tether, and the extra distance will most likely find
her out at Caulfield. However, she is decidedly
first favoufite at fOt) to 4,- find Spark follows next
in estimation at 100 to 3. The betting market is,
however, dull as the proverbial ditch-water,
though, jirobably, a change may come o’er the
scene to-night, as the settling over the Sydney
events is now being proceeded with.
The horses from this colony which figured at the
A.J.C. Spring meeting have all returned here, but
work on the training ground at Flemington has
seen nothing sensational done so far. Most of the
teams WofM when the sun has risen far above the
horizon—a state Of atfail'8 which the poor sporting
reporter, whose business takes him to Flemington.
fervently hopes may continue, but I am afraid
that moonlight gallops will soon once again come
into vogue.
A new addition to the list of horses in training
at Caulfield is Yately, who is an inmate of Batty’s
stable. He is reported to be now the property of
Mr. A. F. Sullivan, who it is rumoured gave 300gs.
for him.
Esmond, Country Squire, and Caractacus have
been struck out of the Caulfield Cup, and the
last-named horse was also eliminated from the
Melbourne Cup list.
Mr. W. 8. Cox’s new coui-sc at Moonic Valley
(which is intended to fill the place of the now swept
away Kensington Park) was opened with a race
mooting on Saturday, under the most favourable
circumstances. A glorious day it was, indeed, and
as the racing was not timed to commence till two
o’clock, one had time to have a quiet lunch before
setting out to assist at the inauguration of a
pleasant little trysting place for those fond of the
‘ sport of kings.” Curiously enough, the opening
event, the Maiden Plate of 30 sov. (0 furlongs,
w.f.a.) resulted in a dead heat, the judge being
unable to separate Eveline (7st. 91b.) and Pvrcttc
(1st. 91b), whose owners agreed to divide. Seven
horses were behind the dead-heaters, Pailloroo
starting a hot favourite, but never flattering his
backers. Avalanche, who carried lOst. 121b„ and
had the assistance in the saddle of Batty, easily
landed the odds laid on him for the Hurdle Handi-
cap of 50 sovs., one mile and three-quarters.
Bendigo (9st. 21b.), Springfield (9st. 21b.), and Artful
Joe (lOst. 21b.) were his only opponents, and they
finished in the order named. The Ascot Handicap
of 50 sovs., 6 furlongs, brought out a field of 13,
Tumult (8st.) having a decided call in the betting,
with Castaway (7st.lllb.), and Mary (list. 101b.) next
iu demand. Glycerine (7st. 31b.) was by no means
friendless at 10 to 1; and after a good race pulled
through rather easily by a couple of lengths from
Castaway, half length behind whom was Mandrake
(7st. 71b.) The withdrawal of Peter and Pride Jett
Mr. A. P. Sullivan's Squire to walk over for what
was grandiloquently termed the “Great Water
Jump Handicap Steeplechase.” Having this title
in mind perhaps the rider sent him at the water-
jump, which he managed to clear Hying—no very
great feat, though, it appeared to those in the
stand enclosure, from which point of vantage the
water-jump appeared very narrow indeed. The
concluding event, the Valley Handicap of 50 sovs.,
one mile, saw nine horses face the starter’s flag, and
of these Mameluke (7st. lib.) and Castaway (7st.9tt>)
came in for most attention from backers. The
latter was never in it, but Mameluke made all the
running till the home turn, where Mary, who had
been treading his heels off all the way, sup-
glanted him and eventually beat him by a lengtfi.
.ambrook (6st. 71b.) was third, and Essex (7st. 101b.)
fourth. The winner is a Tasmanian bred daughter
of Napoleon and Southern Cross’ dam, Mary; and
I had almost forgotten to mention that Glycerine
is by Oliver Twist, out of Gelatine, and is therefore
full sister to Pailleroo, who cut such an ignomini-
ous figure in the Maiden Plate.
TJje Shepnarton Turf Club purpose establishing
a Sires’ Produce Stakes.
Cassiopeia is reported to have been purchased by
Mr. S. Miller, and it js gfijd that Mr. U. ijainpg has
bought Caractacus.
At tho Victoria Club, on Saturday evening, an
offer was made to take 1000 to 10, bar three, for the
V.R.C. Derby; but, as tho would-be backer de-
clined to name his fancy, no business was done.
It is generally believed that Warwick must be the
horse the backer intended to support. An out-
sider has been introduced Into the Derby market
in tho shape of Napier, who is full brother to Tho
Duke, who, it will be remembered, wai a hot
lavourite for some time In Darebin's year, but
never saw the post. Napier Is in W. Laing’s stable,
and when I have seen him at work at P emington
he certainly has not impressed mo favourably.
He hardly looks up to Derby weight: but still it
must be borne in mind that he is half-brother to
Wellington, though he bears not tho slightest re-
semblance to the old horse.
The cross-country mare, Lizette, has gone into
Mr. Do Lancy Forth’s stable at Ballarat.
Archie’s half-sister—the two-year-old lilly by
Ambassador, out of Eugenie—arrived from Tas-
mania last week, in company with several other
youngsters bred in the “Tight Little Island.’’
They at once proceeded to Mr. W. Brown’s station
at Wonga, where they will be trained. Archie’s
half-sister, who has been named Queen of tho
Park, looks pretty forward in her preparation, and
she may, therefore, most probably be saddled tor
the Maribyrnong Plato.
For the Bairnsdalc Sires’ Produce Stakes, Tho
Diver, His Lordship, Mercury, Don Giovanni,
Actepn, Wollomai, and Scion have been nominated.
It is stated that Ontario, who won the Hurdle
Race at Randwick, has gone into H. Connolly’s
stable.
THE BETTING MARKET.
The betting market has been very lively during:
the last week, but although a large amount of
business has been transacted both at Tattersall's
and the oflice of tke New South Wales Leviathan,
the prices we quote below have not, as will be seen,
undergone any considerable alteration, and the
penoillers are ever ready to go on.
The Caulfield Cup.
Since the publication of the weights for this
important handicap, which is supposed to give a
lino to the Melbourne Cup, backers have stepped in
with t eir fancies, and at “ hundreds to four” the
following quintette have received fair attention:
Footstep, Allander, Gloucester, Morpeth, and
Stockdale.
Mabibyrnono Plate.
Second King is a firm llrst favourite for what is
nbW ccfmiponly called the “ Two-year-old Derby”
at 100 to 13, and the principal figures quoted against
the others are 100 to' 10 Helene, 100 to 8 Superba, 100
to 7 Buckingham, Bohemian, and lolanthe, 100 to
5 Garfield. Bach of those mentioned has been well
backed, and the prices we give are still on offer.
V.R.C. Derby.
Archie still retains his place at the head of the
poll, firmly at 3 to 1, and any advance on that price
is quickly closed with. Off Colour is next in de-
mand, at 4 to 1, and followers of the ever danger-
oilB St. Albans stable would accept “ fives ” to a
large amount. A lot of money has been put on
Martini-Henry at 0 and 7 to 1, and at 100 to 30 he is
now very firm. There was a disposition yesterday
to accord genuine support tel the whilom favourite,
Warwick, and 100 to 13 was taken rather freely,
which leans us to express a wish that this line son
of Maribyrnong and The Fawn will see the post,
and give Messrs. Smart and Forrester a good run.
Napier, a half-brother to AVellington, has been
steadily “nibbled at” by the knowing ones; and 10
to 1, although still offered, has been booked against
him. 100 to (5 has been taken re Prodigal (by St.
Albans—Zillah), and 100 to 5 each Lord Wilton (by
Countryman—Instep) and Sardius (by Emulation
—Ruby), which sums up all that need be said of
the “ Blue Riband.”
The Melbourne Cup
Has had a lot of attention paid it, and First Demon
heads the Hat at 10J to 8; though, so genuinely was
he supported a few days ago, that lie rose to 10 to 1,
a figure thatsaw his name pencilled; but the steady
advance of several others had the effect of making
his price easier. The others are quoted thus: 100
to 7 Despot, taken and off; 100 to 7 Le Grand, taken
and off; 100 to 0 each Nicholas, Aide-de-Camp, and
First Water, taken and off; 100 to 5 each Dirk Hat-
terick and Bordeaux; 100 to 4 each Stock well, Re-
covery, andPollio, taken and off ; 100 to 8 Albury,
taken and wanted. Those who dabble in “ long-
priced” doubles are accommodated on the Caul-
field and Melbourne Cups double with prices
ranging from " thousand to one to three.”
SYDNEY T. C. ENTRIES.
Date of Races, October 6.
Favorite Plate, Y\ mile.
Boscawen, Sir William, Fritz, Venice, Minocca
Uralla, The Filer, Cupidon, Kelso, Faust, Sports
man, Soldier Boy, Here’s Luck, Manfred, Hypatia
San Jose, Jack The Devil, Wallangra, Albury
Emulation, Silver Arrow, Little Star, Eva, Affec-
tion, the Slave, Cygnet, The Demon, Alber
Victor, Belvidere, Prima Donna, Bayard, Crowner
Head, Bou Bon, Master Avenel, Armidale, Le
Beau, Black and White, Envy, The Deer, Tinder-
box.
Hurdle Kace, 3 miles.
Satellite, Rejected, War Eagle, Independent,
Epaminondas, Uhlan, Dundreary, Cygnet, Byron
First Try, The Deer.
Corinthian Cup, 1J4 mile.
Soldier Boy, Hypatia, Norman, Mirabeau, Crane,
Kaugaroobie, Uhlan, Prima Donna, The Jay, Le
Beau, Raven, The Deer.
Sapling Stakes, furlongs.
Break o’ Morn, Steersman, The Jewel, Liberty
Garlleld, Lord Exeter, Parapluie, Ionia, King’s
Own, Havannah, Venetia, Bolero, Alicia, Bucking-
ham, Lady Temple, Regret, Nepicallina, Gipsy’s
Warning, Bargo, Charming, Eton Boy.
Selling Plate, 1 mile.
Venice, Minorca, Carmen, Traveller, Jack the
Devil, Emulation, Silver Arrow, The Slave, Bayard,
Byron, Haven, Macaroni, Rosinante, Envoy, The
Deer, Pinafore, The Jay, Bon Bon.
Farewell Handicap, 1M mile.
Fritz, Miles-na-Coppaleen, The Filer, Cupidon,
Carmen, Kelso, The Gem, Fiust, Sportsman,
Soldier Boy, Here’s Luck, Twelve Years, Stock-
dale, Pell Hell, Manfred, Bristol, Hypatia, Norman,
Kangaroobie, Wallangra, Emulation, Albury, Sil-
ver Arrow, Phyllis. Eva, Masquerade, Affection,
The Slave, Albert Victor, Belvidere, Tlnderbox,
Willeroo, Primus, Bon Bon, Master Avenel, Armi-
dale, Le Beau, Recovery, Macaroni, Balmoral, Lord
of the Lake, Gloucester, Rosinante, Envy, Pina-
fore.
VICTORIA RACING CLUB.
The following 88 popular sires have subscribed
to The Sires' Produce Stakes, to be run for at the
V.R.C. Autumn meeting, 1887.-—Defoe, Lapidist,
Diver, King Tom, St. Albans, Monmouth, Conrad,
King Cole, Swiveller, Leolinus, First King, Robin-
son Crusoe, Chester. Bosworth, Glorious, Hughen-
den, Dante, Marquis, Julian Avenel, Malta, Ra-
pidity, Newminster, Herschell, Angler, Moor-
thorpe, The Hook, Wellington,. His Lordship,
Musket, Larpent, Piscator, Maribyrnong, Epigram,
Don Giovanni, Anteros, Argus Scandal, Quam-
bone, Grand Flaneur.
The latest Melbourne Cup scratchings are as
follows;—Mountebank, Thorntoppcr, Caractacus,
Country Squire, Esmoude. For the Caulfield Cup:
Esmonde, Country Squire, Caractacus, Gipsy
Cooper, Little Jack, Mistaken, Transferred, First
Water, Ad Valorem.
DUBBO JOCKEY CLUB.
The following entries have been made:—
Macquarie Handicrp, one mile and a quarter.
Gertrude, Carker, Figaro, Jimmy Toy, Fritz,
Vclox, Wheel of Fortune, Barney, The Filer, Kan-
garoobio.
Spring Handicap, one mile and a half.
Figaro, Fritz, The Filer, Wheel of Fortune,
Carker, Jimmy Toy, Drum Major, Barole, Velox,
Kangaroobie.
HACKS PAST.
,f Owing- to much pressure on our space, conse-
quent on making- a new departure In sporting,
the race meetings of the past week must submit
to much curtailment. In future such items will
bo better served.
At Bathurst, on Friday and Saturday, The Shorts
fell to Mr. D. Mayne’s Liberty beating Soldier
Boy and V elox, in 1 min. 52 sec. for the mile. Mr.
Hatton s kangaroobie won the Welter Handicap
from Bellbird: Mr. Fagan’s Phyllis beat Pinafore,
Twelve \ ears, and two others, for the Spring
Handicap ; Regalia appropriated the Prince of
AV ales Stakes from Quail; and Soldier Hoy wound
up the first day by a win from Velox and Kan-
garooblc, in the Squatter’s Handicap. On the
second day, Mr. J. Lee’s The Fifer, beat Soldier
Hoy and Hoobie for The Flying Handicap, doing
the quarter mile in 1 min. 18 sec. The Bathurst
Handicap—the race of the meeting—was won by
Mr. Bradbury’s old wonder. Twelve Fears, 6 stone,
beating Soldier Boy, Phyllis, and throe others, in 3
min. 43 sec for the mile and a half. The Fifer won
The Free Handicap from a held of four: and The
Final Flutter was won by Kangaroobie from
Joker and Tait.
At Tem ora the six events resulted as follows: —
Maiden Plato: Slaughterman, 1; t'layboy, 3. Spring
Handicap: Darkle, 1; Playboy, 2; Lizzie, 3. Back
Race: Dolly Varden, 1; Little Nell, 2. District
Handicap: Darkio, 1; Slavey, 2; Ploughboy. 3.
Trotting Race: Poor Mo, 1; Gipsy, 3. Consolation
Stakes: Lizzie, 1; Tal Tal, 2; slavey, 3.
Wall send Amateur races came off thus on Satur-
day—Hurdle Race : Chesterton, 1 ; Main brace, 2;
Eclipse, 3. N.H.C. Steeplechase: Forest King, 1;
Skylark, 2; Pirate.3. Selling Stakes; Goldsbrough,
1; Darkie, 2. Hunt Club Handicap: Satellite, 1;
Avalanche, 2. Ladies Bncolot; Chesterton, 1:
Verdict, 2.
At the Adelaide Race Club the winners were—
Hurdle Race: Charcoal. Nursery Handicap: Bol-
lamio. Selling Race: Cremorno. September Han-
dicap: Sardis. Steeplechase: Regal. Handicap
Flutter: Gymkhana.
Moonio Valley (Victoria).—Maiden Plate: FiVelyn,
1; Pyrettc, 2. Hurdles: Avalanche, 1; Bendigo, 2.
Ascot Handicap; Glycerine, 1; Castaway 2. Steeple-
chase: Squire walked over. Valley Handicap;
Mary, 1; Mameluke, 2.


REMEMBER THIS,
IP YOU APE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of tne numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Baim
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£500
will be paid lor a case they will not cure
or help, anything impure or inju-
rious foundii the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mHher or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doo*
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
543, late 631, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to lit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their elalm
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
Sent post free for Is. stamps to defray postage.
“TRUTH,”
A TREATISE showing the under-surface evils
of society that cause Impediments to Mar-
riage ; Celibacy ; Woman ; Advice to those about
to Marry. Also, the Injury caused by the use of
Tobacco and Alcohol; Howto Regain and Preserve
your Health ; <fcc. &e. Address
R. T. SELBY, M.H.,
DEVONSHIRE ST., SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION, _
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &<,.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KBBBLBWHITE, Chemist, Mv.
43 ER8KINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
PEPPER AND SALT.
The following advertisement recently ap-
peared in a London paper. It was printed in French,
but in the absence of Alfred, who is, we believe,
engaged in a chalet built for the purpose on the
Waverley Heights preparing a new translation of
Ovid’S “Metamorphoses,” we will airily render it
into English:—
“ A Young French Lady, 18 years of age, of
good family, highly educated, and exceedingly
beautiful, desiring to aid her parents who are
rich but at present embarrassed by pressing
liabilities, would marry an honourable gentle-
man of her own age who is in a position to
advance from £10,000 to £12,000 on good
security.”
There is not, in this translation, either Alfred’s
delicate touch or that patent-medicine ring which
makes his copy so attractive; but the substance is
there, nevertheless. We have pondered over this
annonce for a considerable time, and the more
we have pondered the more we have longed
to marry the self-sacrificing young lady who is
“ excessivement jolie,” and who has had “une
haute Education.” Unfortunately, so far as we
are concerned, there are serious obstacles in the
way of our gratifying our desires. Even if the
£10,000 or £12 000 could be got over, there is a party
at present shampooing the front verandah who
might interpose objections of a serious not to say
forcible nature. This, we need hardly add, is the
wife of our besom —we should say bosom. And
this reminds us that marrying in Europe first, and
then in Australia, seems to be getting quite fashion-
able. See, for instance, Alfred’s clipping from
the Bridgewater paper of the Blank business
A little while ago, Blank had two wives, but
now he has one only. This, even if it lacer-
ate his heart, will save his pocket; for it came
out in the evidence that when the lady in England
wanted (say) Mr. B. to go out for some beer, or
hand her the kettle-holder, he had to travel 16,000
miles to do it; and then, if the lady here stood in
need of his services at the family wood-pile, he
had to hasten back “ over many thousand miles o’
stormy water,” as Magwitch hath it, in order to
come to her assistance and manipulate the
American axe. Singer, the sowing machine man,
who died some years ago at his palace in Torquay,
had no less than eight wives, and, therefore, as
they were a bit scattered, was continually travel-
ling. There is a legend that, whenever his arrival
was expected in an American town where a couple
of Mrs. S.’s were located, a lot of wary mothers
used to ready up their kids at the railway
station, and, on Singer descending from the
cars, pinch them until they shrilly cried :
*• Farder—dear farder; ” whereupon the old man
would pat their molasses-bedecked crowns, and
abstractedly deal out a $20 gold piece all round.
But then, you see, he was worth four millions of
pounds. And being worth four millions of pounds
It is surprising that eight wives was all he in-
dulged in. Let’s see—to be Scriptural—how many
wives -not to mention p remUres danseuses, and
personages of an equally Nautchy nature—had
Solomon? Well, “700 wives and300 concubines;”
so It is no wonder—we quote from 1 Kings xi.—
that this crowd “turned away his heart.” All
these; and yet Solomon wasn’t a quarter as rich as
Singer. But then, we suppose, at that period, it
never occurred to Solomon to sell sewing
machines. [Very flippant.— Ed B.]
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Dr. Snndford was enthroned as Bishop of
Tasmania on Wednesday week. We shall soon
have to report Barry’s enthronisatlon as Bishop of
Sydney. The low churchmen are mad to think
that it’s in contemplation to adopt full pontifical
pomp at the ceremony. A grand procession, the
Bishop in all the Ornaments of his glory—rochette,
albe, cope, and pastoral staff, etcetera, etcetera.
The Sabbatarian fever has broken out at
Forbes, and in a phenomenally virulent form, too.
There is a paying patient in the local hospital,
who is a subscriber to various Sydney weekly
papers. These he was in the habit or perusing
during the long monotonous hours of Sunday.
Latterly, however, his papers have been kept back
from him, and on his enquiring why, one of the
officials, is alleged to have told him in a tone of holy
indignation to “go and road his Bible.” 'I he com-
mittee have been appealed to, but with what result
has not trmsplred.
It was not David Blair, but another able
amateur theologian, who proved the Divine in-
spiration of the Scriptures in Melbourne, last
Sunday. He kept his strongest proof to the end,
and as he rolled it out, manifestly conscious of its
triumphant power, every sceptic in the house was
paralysed. “ The Queen,” said the lecturer—and a
proprietor of the Age, who sat in a back corner,
spontaneously ejaculated, “O, bow your heads!
—“The Queen,” repeated the lecturer, anxious
that his proof should run,smoothly, “ believes
in the Bible. And she knows what she is about! ”
You could hear a brick falling. Heterodoxy was
stunned, and Melbourne is notlikely to be troubled
with it any more.
Bishop Moorhouse laid some eggs lately,
which Thomas Walker hatched the other Sunday
night. If there be anything Thomas is great at, it
is incubation. As he squats and looks at the audi-
ence, you perceive that he was just cut out by
destiny for the performance of such a motherly
function. Every now and again h® lifted a leg to
show you how he was coming on. He came on
sweetly — tenderly. He got the chickens on the
stage, and then proceeded to hop them about for
the general admiration. During the incubation
process, Thomas was all reverence, but during the
exhibition process he was all scorn. That’s charac-
teristic of Thomas. He hatches like a goose and
kills like a gander. It is a pity he has no friend to
hold him after he produces a good thing. It is a
Eity he does not stay always a goose. It is evident
e begins at that. When he changes his sex and
stretches his neck, he is not half so sweet. But
metamorphosis is a law of the Thomasine being,
and if he did not work out from the goose to the
gander—well—he would probably work in from the
gander to the goose.
Radicalism and irreverence have at last
reached the House of Lords. They may next be
found squatting on the steps of the Throne itself.
During the debate on the Deceased Wife's Sister’s
business, Bishop Wordsworth brought a logical
speech to a close by remarking that “ Such an in-
fraction of the Divine law of marriage, was cer-
tain to be speedily followed by a visitation of
Divine punishment I” We forget how many
thousands a year he gets for saying pleasant things
like thi . But some youthful descendant of the
Crusaders suggested to his Lordship that the
Mormons were about the most prosperous com-
munity under the “blue unclouded, while their
views on wedlock were scandalously loose. Mar-
riage with a deceased wife’s sister would go a very
little wav towards satisfying the matrimonial pro-
clivities of this thriving people. Their compre-
hensive code finds room tor all their wives’ female
relatives. Among them a man is of little weight-
little attention is paid to his views—unless he has
been ‘ sealed” to half-a-dozen mothers-in-law,
anyone of whom could give points to the belle-
mere whose attentions make her son-in-law, Mr.
Polk, feel so much at home in the play. The Bishop
paid no attention to the pert iconoclast, but sailed
away majestically to the end, convinced that,
when marriage with one’s sister-in-law is allowed,
John Bull may take in his sign.
While preaching a sermon, lately, a Pres-
byterian clergyman told his hearers how he had
been called a short time ago to visit the death-bed
of a young lady. Her husband came to him in
great distress, requesting his attendance, and he
went accordingly. He found the patient in a
dying condition trom consumption, but apparently
tranquil in mind. On asking her to join with him
in prayer, she said “ Oh, never mind just now—
there is plenty of time for that.” He did not press
the matter, and shortly after left, and next morn-
ing heard that she was dead. Then he told his
hearers how, when he stood at the open grave of
that young woman beside the weeping husband,
he could not speak one word of consolation to the
mourner. He had a holy duty to his Master to per-
form, and he could not sincerely say to that young
man, “ Be of good cheer—she is among the angels.
He felt that this was a case in which there was no
room for hope, and he made it pretty clear to the
congregation that he fully believed the young
lady’s soul had gone to hell. He did not say so in
so many words, but that was his meaning. The
indifference with which she turned away from his
proffered devotions was enough to satisfy him as
to her future fate. In our opinion, however, the
young lady, standing, as it were, on the brink of
eternity, her bodily presence wasted to a mere
shadow, but with the immortal mind unfettered
and free, was much more likely to have had a clear
glimpse or vision of futurity than the person who
came to visit her, labouring, as he did, under a
heavy dinner, and a gross weight, dinner and all,
of over eighteen stone.
The Swiss Government have, the cable tells
us, expelled Miss Booth and Miss Charlesworth.
We can’t help feeling sorry for Switzerland—no
“captains,” no “Hallelujah lasses,” no “knee-
drill,” no “ nothing’’—but human nature is ever
selfish, and mingled with our compassion for the
poor Swiss nation is a secret pleasure in the
thought that the defeated “battalion ” may possibly
come to swell the ranks of their comrades in Aus-
tralia. Miss Booth had to “ clear out ” at six. hours’
notice: —
miss booth's lament 1
Farewell! Oh, farewell, to each lovely Swiss moun-
tain,
Those high-reaching hills with their summits of
snow;
For Swiss people’s taste there’s, I’m sure, no ac-
counting.
They’ve actually ordered the “ army ” to go.
’Tis fearful to think that your dissolute nation
(That once boasted heroes like brave William Tell)
Should so sternly refuse to partake of “salvation,”
And bid its purveyors to “ march off to h 1.”
’Tis not in my nature to ever upbraid you,
But, brethren, the pathways of Satan are smooth;
You’re bound for a region in which, I’m afraid,
you
Will often feel thirsty, and long for a Booth.
But though this attempt has resulted in failure
(Just six hours’ notice the country to quit)
Dear papa hopes for far better luck in Australia,
Where Barker is looting a nice “ little bit.”
So, farewell aga n to your country misguided—
Just one more remark ere I take myself hence,
In my innermost heart, I have really decided
That Switzerland’s blessed with a deal of good sense.
*
Last week, a little girl in a very weak state
from whooping cough, was taken to St. John’s
Church, Brisbane, to be baptised. The shock of
the water, or the draughty church killed her. And
there was no inquest It’s rather a joke to
find that it was the Public School system,
which we were told by its author was to be the
solvent of creed, race, and colour, that
thrust out into the cold the half-caste children
of Yass, while it was the Roman Catholic pastor of
that place who gathered them in. What do you
think of this, Mr. Reid ? As an illustration of
Higinbotham’s allegation that the laity are more
and more losing their interest in church concerns,
take the circumstance that the other evening at
Parramatta there were only fifteen persons present
at a meeting duly convened to consider what one
would think was an important local Anglican
question, to wit, the division of the parish of St.
John’s.
* m *
Dr. Stephenson does not wish to let the
story of the Boyne die. Nor do we. It was a
victory of discipline and many over disorganisation
and few ... The Papal income from Peter’s pence
continues to decrease rapidly. An appeal to all the
bishops of Christendom to awaken the conscience
of the faithful to the necessity of providing the
means is being prepared John Mayne, a
teacher in a Wesleyan Sunday school at Dalcoath,
Cornwall, has embezzled £12,000. It is about time
a few swindlers paid Freethought the compliment
of concealing their rascally dispositions under a
pretence of intelligent devotion to enlightenment.
“ Department-trotting, cab-hiring, ven-
ality and roguery of every kind and degree must
be swept clean out of the public service of this
country.” That’s the way Mortimer Franklyn
(Franklin with a “y,” mind you) comes it. But
has it occurred to the financial crusader to ask
where will it go if it be so completely swept out of
the public service ? Does he want it to oast itself
on the world without a friend and without a home ?
Is there not enough of it there already? The
crusader, of ail men, ought not be too hard on
gentlemen whose chief crime is impecuniosity,
with its attendant fault of knee-service before a
full coffer.
Snail’s Bay Rowing Regatta came off on
Saturday last. J. H Read won the Maiden Single
Sculls. Bull, the second man, < ntered a protest on
the ground that Read is a manual labour man.
H ace, Ware, Taylor, and Brindley took the Maiden
Fours. The Junior Single Sculls fell to G. Robert-
son. The Junior Fours fell to Yale, Young,
Stevenson and Bros, Brett was the only man who
came to the scratch for the Single Sculls, and he
declined to row over. Sandy won the Darkies’
race. The brothers Gaden appropriated the
Maiden Double Sculls. Moppett and Woolnough
won the Residents’ race, and G Seale and S. Mar-
tin won the Junior Double Sculls.
Suddenly, as they walked along, the woman
put down her basket and said “ Yes, I will, I will!
I’ll not live with you another day, there I” “You’ll
leave me, will you?” he asked. “Yes I will I”
“When?” Now, this very minute!” “You’ll a o
away?” he continued imperturbably. “Yes,” she
repeated, geting more excited each moment, “ and
I defy you to prevent me.” “ Oh, I shan’t try to
stop you,” he replied with exasperating calmness;
“ I will simply report to the police that my wife is
missing. She wears No. 7 shoes, has an extra large
mouth and knobby knees. She has terra-cotta
hair and one eye is cast round ” “ Wretch 1 you
daredn’t!” she screamed. “I certainly will; and
of course,” he placidly kept on, “it will be necessary
to insert your description in the papers, and ’
she glared at him for a minute, and picking up her
basket, she followed her husband. He knew how
to get a pull on that woman.
At Clinton, N.Z., three young lads, named
Roy, sons of James Roy, a Justice of the Peace,
went out one evening last month to shoot rabbits.
They did not manage to shoot any, but, on return-
ing home along the railway line, they stalked a
goods-train and shot the stoker, James Henderson,
dead as a door-nail. This was not exactly what
they had intended to do. Their utmost expecta-
tion had been to wing the engine; and when they
heard next day that they had not Injured the train
but had succeeded in killing the stoker, they were
considerably disgusted. They were committed for
trial on a charge of manslaughter, but, as their
father is a bush missionary as well as a J.P., and
the man they shot was only a stoker, it is quite
likely they will get off with—a gentle reprimand
from the Judge, and a caution not to fire their
guns again at passing trains except in self-defence.
The meeting of the r astern Suburbs Ama-
teur Athletic Club, on Saturday last, was a big
success, although the attendance was not over
large, in consequence of the attraction at Manlv
Beach. The event of the day—the 5-miles handicap
bicycle race—was the last on the card, and resulted
in a win for A. Lee, of the Wanderers’ B.C., who
started from scratch, picked up the handicapped
men by the time half the distance had been
covered, and eventually won as ne liked in 18min.
35sec., B. C. Wood second. W. M. Gordon appro-
priated the 100 yards for those who have never won
a race, and the 150 yards handicap. G. M. Robinson
won the mile walking handicap. The 440 yards
schools’ fell to A. Henry, Newington College; J.
Parker won the 1000 yards’ challenge cup and
medal; T. M. Thomson defeated Grainger by a
foot for the 100 yards championship of Club ; H.
H. Lambtonwon the mile maiden handicap bicycle
race ; W. C. Shipway won both the two miles and
quarter-mile walks; J. Campbell won the half-
mile handicap : A. M. S. Cansdell won the maiden
440 yards ; the 150 yards strangers’ race fell to F. G.
Russell; and P. R. Pedley appropriated the one
mile handicap.
THE BOGUS CONSULTATION.
(WITH APOLOGIES TO THE LATE EDGAR A. POE.)
I was sitting sadly thinking how my funds wore
slowly sinking:
I’d that afternoon been drinking drinks no morta*
drank before—
Pouring down the fiery “lotion” till my brain was
in commotion.
And I formed a naughiy Notion, worthy of the
days of yore;
Formed a grander business Notion than I’d ever
formed before.
I’ll revere It evermore.
All my soul had been awaking to the danger of
house-breaking;
That had caused my often making journeys to the
prison-door.
I could think of no new swindling, so my cash was
dally dwindling,
When this Notion came a kindling hopes I’d never
hoped before:
Came a kindling happy, swindling hopes, I’d never
hoped before—
Of amassing boundless store.
Ahl distinctly I remember, It was in the soft Sep-
tember,
Two short months before November, when the
Melbourne Cup comes round;
I grow frenzied with elation as I shrieked, in agi-
tation,
“ Why not have a 1 Consultation’—fifty thousand at
a pound ?—
Have a splendid ‘ Consultation’—fifty thousand at
a pound ?
It would answer, I’ll be bound.”
“ New Chum,” said I, “ man of evil, you’re a pre-
cious artful devil,
You’ve a head that’s fairly ‘ level ’—level as this
chamber floor;
Call post-haste upon the Printer—write Prospectus
for the Printer;
Ere shall come another Winter, you shall seek
another shore—
With a pretty pile of money, you shall seek another
shore:
That I think is very sure.”
Not another word I uttered, but I felt my bread
was buttered;
Blithesome as a bird I fluttered—fluttered to the
Printer’s door;
In a state of exultation, wrote a “form” for
“ Consultation ”—
One that should bewitch the nation with its mystic
sporting lore:
Worded to bewitch the “greenhorns,” quite un-
versed in worldly lore,
A Prospectus—nothing more.
All my soul within me burning, then I took a
narrow turning.
Seeking out a man of learning, his assistance to
implore:
He was clever at compiling “ads.” alluring and
beguiling,
“Ads.” that set the printers smiling—(they are
versed in such like lore—
Versed in sporting, truth-contorting, artful, adver-
tising lore:
They have set such “ type” before).
Ere the afternoon was ended, he had done as I
intended— -
Written out a really splendid “ ad.” to bring sub-
scribers round:
Telling men of every station to avoid procrastina-
tion
Ere remitting their oblation of a simple golden
pound.
(Fifty thousand small oblations of a simple golden
pound
Form a figure fairly “ round.’)
“New Chum’s” Champion Consultation quite ful-
fils my expectation
(Surely ’tis a dispensation all my fortunes to re-
store) ;
Every one his pound is paying—golden eggs the
“ads.” are laying;
Till November I’ll be staying on this money-making
shore;
Then I’ll take a swift departure from this money-
making shore,
Leaving blessings— nothing more.
Everywhere I’m advertising, mountains high my
hopes are rising—
It is truly quite surprising how the postman haunts
my door;
Country cheque and money-order lie about in
wild disorder—
In a weird and wild disorder, on my little chamber
floor;
Forming such a precious burden as my little
chamber floor
Never previously bore.
And the "greenhorns,” never stopping, still are
dropping, still are dropping
Little welcome golden sovereigns into my vora-
cious maw;
And I almost think I’m dreaming, for the “ Con-
sultation” ’s seeming
Like a more successful scheming than was ever
schemed before;
But one shilling of the money they are dropping in
my maw
They shall see—ah! nevermore,


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA C LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from 1 ulfllling their functions. Sot
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will umte in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorate r. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate an these syna otoms there is no remedy so
gure and certain as
ABRAHAM'S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due 1 o a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imltalions, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever Sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Labuatory,
434 George Street, Sydney.
—
MONET LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeas, Bonds, Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities. payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which ww be paid in f nil within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE P ETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
91 oiMnutEAQH Street,
One d 'y of King Street.
WO H K ! »1? G CLASSES,
GE\B«A*li VOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. KEKU AND CO.,
71 Goudum-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Porta'nse Gas, Gasaliers, Lamps, and
Fkrid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Keely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
•with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
ibe sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
■4 Light Gasalier £3 10
3 do. do 2 10
3 do, do l is
3 Light Brass Table Lamps .. 5 10
1 do. do. do 2 10
Brass Bracket Lamps, burn 10
hours 2 0 0
Wall Bracket Lamps, do. 0 17 6
Olobes and Fittings .0 5 0 each
Fluid, in cases, 8 gallons.. 0 3 6 gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 13s worth kero-
sene. instructions as to tl o inode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch oi goods.
Goods sent to all pai ts of the Colonies.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET
0
0
0 to £2
0
0
5 0
DINNER,
ONE SHILLING.
%
Af
V
co
<3
i-3 hj
a *0
P §
W
S3
W
w
'o.
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
All Meals One Shilling.
J. C. GREENFIELD, Proprietor.
ERNEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
, All Timber Is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for Immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
A. GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ ClarenrLcLoarL,’
Comer of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. \ TSITORS
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
TjJtia not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &c„ as he apd al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES
for selling nothing but the very beat.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a,t\xred.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex> rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music In Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
TTAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Single and
Double Bedrooms, replete with every comfort.
A TRIAL IS RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
THOMAS MUNRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerboin for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
W
TLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com shellors
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Wadnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
HEBBLEWHITE &
416 GEORGE STREET.
c o.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WURKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GBORGE-STREET.
CW Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
The federal bank of Australia
(Limited)
Incorporated under Aot of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors *
-m- The Hon. w. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman,
w H Eldj-ed, Bm., J.P. I F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
Robert Hudson, Esq. M.P.
I J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant; John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 257 George-street,
North, with branch at tne Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
IV. H. Ariel I and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits. Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
Alratod Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS. —Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J* F. M KENZIE & CO.'S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags. &c.
343 and 345 KENT-dTREET, SYDNEY.
S
ECURE A LOT AT SPRING8IDE
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
®“317 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes. — rnvate
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings;
afternoon classes, Thursdays, h veiling: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.ra.; Thursdays. 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at TattcrsalJ’s Now Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 351 Elizabeth-street.
Iar The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IP REQUIRED,
to depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
luel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
I-® 1 " The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as Quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary OlHces, 311 Goorge-stroet.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tom.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
R.BUHGIS.
TAILOR .
I
VISIT R. BURG IS’NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations of
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr, Young’s 35 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
25 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
IS0T 2 8 5 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
Ayala*
urnupuAUTY
CHAMPAGNE |
ttflTUAia I
s/sr
I
\
‘I’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.”
“Oh, If that’s all, old man, I’ll have you ak brisk as a
cricket in a jiffy. Here, Waiter! large bottle of
Ayala’s White Label. This is a wine one can’t get
everywhere; and if it doesn’t set you up, Frank, I’ll
give you a new hat,”
ROBERT PHILLIPS I CO.,
AGENTS.
BRIDGE-STREET CHAMBERS.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
T* EDIAKD’S SHOUT HORN BOURBON.-The
A-J drink of the army, navy> the clubs, and the
American (rentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. :
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded GohJ Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING It is unrivalled. In every
house, store and ollico, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trilling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA.
82 CLARENCE STREET.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
pT Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“ EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Saywell’s Tahcco Ct., Un.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will bo used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public agains* spurious and worthless


No further Government aid to the directors
of the Sydney Hospital. We trust this means uu
Keueral hospital la Maoqaarie-gtreet.
On Judges.
TThb tate Lord Lyndhurst, when he was Chancel-
lor, was once asked upon what principles he
(selected a Judge. His lordship replied: “I look out
tor a gentlemen; and, if he knows a little law, so |
much the better.” Unfortunately there have
been on the Bench Judges who were wanting in
either one or other of these conditions, and one or
two iB both. The essence of a gentleman is cour-
ttesy, A Judge has no excuse for being discour-
teous. From his position he has a natural claim to
the respect of the public, as well as of the mem-
bers of his own profession. An Irritable and over-
bearing manner seriously impedes his usefulness,
and cannot fail to produce nervousness in young
and inexperienced counsel, whom the Judge ought
to aid and encourage, if not from a feeling of kind-
incss and sympathy for a young beginner, for the
Hake of their clients, to whom it is his duty to see,
to the best of his power, that justice is done. It is
not to be expected that Judges should never make
mistakes. Humanum cut errare; and, so long as
Judges are men, they are no more infallible than |
their fellow men ; and if they commit an error of
judgment, they should not claim to be exempt from
fair and honest criticism, under the plea that it is a
contempt of Court. Among the Judges who have
done honour to the English Bench, Lord Denman
was noted for his uniformly gracious and kindly
manner, and for the possession of a dignified de-
meanour without pomposity. The tendency of
Lord Lyndhurst’s mind was always to the side of
mercy. He was ever ready to aid and encourage
an Inexperienced advocate, and took care that the
interests of the client did not suffer through the
deficiencies of counsel. Lord Wensleydalb, when
•on the bench, was distinguished for the gravity of
Ihis manner. He paid the most profound attention
*o the case before him, never exhibiting signs of
impatience; was courteous to all, and would even,
at times, go out of his way to say a kindly word
to a youthful advocate. When the opposite quali-
ties are displayed by a Judge, who may possibly
have gained a reputation for being harsh and
severe in his administration of justice, and whoso
manner is at all times dictatorial, and sometimes
almost brutal, he occasionally finds that he cannot
indulge his inclinations with impunity, and has in
his turn to submit to attacks from counsel who
will not submit tamely to his discourtesy. Baron
Gurney had won for himself this character; and,
during the trial of Barber and Fletcher, for
grand and forgeries, in 1844, Mr. Wilkins, who de-
fended Barbeh, made a most bitter attack u pon the
Judge. “Thereexist upon the Bench some who have
the character of convicting Judges, 1 do not envy
them their reputation in this world, or their fate
hereafter," The Baron, though feeling, as he ad.
mitted to a friend, the attack most acutely, main-
tained a dignified silence. Mr. Justice Maule,
who was notorious for his cynical manner and
propensity for joking in a stylo which was gene-
rally unbecoming the dignity of the Bench, often
exposed himself to unfavourable comments. On
one occasion a most savage onslaught had been
made upon him in the columns of the Examiner
by Albany Fonblanque, the editor. A good-
matured friend did not fail to draw the Judge's
attention to the article. “ Well,” said he, “ I can-
not understand it. I am sure I never did Fon-
blanque a favour.” In the first case, the attack
was made in Court during the trial; in the second,
in the columns of a widely-circulated journal.
Ifet, neither of the victims of these attacks thought
it necessary for the maintenance of his dignity to
cause any action to bo taken to bring the offenders
before the Court to show cause why they should
not bo committed for contempt. In the course of
the last few years there has been more than one
instance in which the proprietors of public jour-
nals have been brought defore the Colonial Courts,
and sorely fined, for alleged contempt. As the law
now stands, the Judges of the Supreme Court
of New South Wales make the laws defining
contempt, if It has or is capable of a de-
finition. They are the expounders and adminis-
trators of their law, and might be, possibly, the
parties seeking protection and redress through
it—an anomaly which a foreigner might fln d
some difficulty in believing actually existed
iin a Constitution which professes to secure perfect
liiberty for those who live under it. Liberty is not
llicense in its worst sense. To freely discuss and
fairly criticise the acts of public men is the right
of every individual of the State. The public press
is merely the mouthpiece of the majority, or of a
large section, of individuals; and to curtail, or in
anyway limit, that right is a direct infringement
of public liberty, and public security. Judges are
public characters, as much as are members of the
•existing Ministry. The mere accident of their
being bedizened with horsehair and ermine, when
exercising their judicial functions, no more sheds
a halo of sa nctity over their lives and actions than
the embroidered coat and silk small-clothes of a
Minister of the Crown confer upon the lucky
individual, whom the popular suffrage has foisted
into office, exemption from those ills to which the
flesh is heir. A Judge who prefaces his summing
up by a declaration of the purity of his motives,
and of the righteousness of his acts, shows
evidence that there exists in his mind
an uneasy feeling that there may be some
among the crowd who do not see him as ho would
lain be seen. Moreover, he throws down a direct
challenge for criticism, and ought not to feel
aggrieved, nor should his colleagues feel for him, if,
in the comments he has provoked, he gets roughly
handled. Nor has he any right, either directly or
indirectly, to seek for shelter under an attachment
for contempt. When an appeal was recently
made to Mr. Justice Williams, one of the Judges
in Victoria, to initiate some action in an alleged
case of contempt of Court, he replied; “I do not
t'rlnk it fair for the Judges of this (Central
Criminal) Court, or of the Supreme Court, to put
themselves in the position of prosecutor or accu-
ser, or to initiate proceedings for contempt, and I
decline to do so.” If Mr. Justice Williams’
opinion is wrong, and the opposite right, the Press
aad the public are likely in future to fare little
better than did Pajnurqe and Friar John when
they were nabbed and put into Lob’s pound by
order of Gripe-men-all, Archduke of the Furred
Law Cats, because one of their company would
have put upon a Sergeant some hats of the Sharp-
ing Island.
A coquette is a rose from which every
lover plucks a. leaf—the thorn alone remaiqg for
her futux:e
Dean Cowper puts it this way: meagre
support to Church—few Candidates for the Minis-
try. What is that b\it admitting that the cleric’s
favourite evangelist is St. Lucre ?
When an Anglican bishop was also a terri-
torial feudatory, there was nothing illogical about
his being called “ my lord.” But, inasmuch as
Colonial bishops (of the Anglican “ persuasion ”)
are not territorial feudatories—inasmuch, also, as
they claim to bo ministers of Him Who ordered
that His messengers should not arrogate lordship—
we can’t for the life of us see why any Christian
Anglican should wish to call his chief minister
“out of his name.”
Beaten from pillar to post on legal and
constitutional grounds for their action in prevent-
ing Mr. Bradlaugh from taking his seat, his oppo-
nents have now no other reason to give for their
treasonable conduct but the woman’s one— Mr.
Bradlaugh is a bad man.” tn answer to this un-
fair charge, Mr. Bradlaugh, in hi* Appeal just
Issued, very properly asks tor particulars from his
slanderers and calumniators. He says, most per-
tinently, “Have I driven men to dishonour and
suicide by gambling V” In the betting rings at
Newmarket or Tattersall's Mr. Bradlaugh’s face
would not be recognised. Whoever heard of him
either wasting his time and hla substance
over cards in the clubs in 8t. James’s, or at
the tables of the gambling hells on the Con-
tinent ? Bradlaugh has done none of these
things, “ yet,” as he points out. “ men who
have done this sat (during the late debate on his
his case) and voted against me.” “ Have I been
drunken within the house, or even out of it?" ho
goes on to pelt his opponents. “No; yet men
parading their piety staggered tipsily through the
lobby to record their votes against me. Have I
used my influence and sold my title as a director
of a foreign company ? No ; yet a noble lord who
had done this was in the house to speak avid vote
against me. Have I prostituted rny rank on a
directorate whose transactions have been judicially
condemned as fraudulent? No; yet at least one
right honorable who voted against me had so
done.” These arc swashing blows for one to deal
at one’s enemies—striking home to the very quick
—and arc bound, in the case of the junior member
for Northampton, to leave their mark on the
persons they were aimed at.
Thus the ever well-meaning, but almost
Invariably accurate, Gabkanny: “ Admiral Pierre,
the French commander, who made himself con-
spicuous by his offensive actions towards the Eng-
lish Admiral and English residents at Madagascar,
has returned to France in a critical state of health.”
[He has since died.—En. B.] Now, this really is
robbing Pierre without paying Paul. There was
no English Admiral at Madagascar, unfortunately,
British naval interests there were represented by
a petulent, impulsive party by the name of John-
stone, who knew nothing of international law—
hence, botheration! We always back the Britisher
when he's in the right, but are determined to set
our face as a flint against that partial insular
Jingoism which presumes that a man must be right
simply because he is a Britisher.
This is exactly what The Bulletin has
been saying all along. From the Melbourne Age:
—“ Bishop Moorhousc has been good enough to
denounce Socialism as Anti-Christ, and by infer-
ence to extol the existing order of society, the
order that Louis Napoleon represented, the order
that is Identical with money jobbing and monopoly,
the order that supports the liquor traffic and bro-
thels, as at least not incompatible with the King-
dom of Christ. We are not concerned to defend
Socialism, except as tar as Socialism has adopted
the principles of democracy, but we confess to a
suspicion that if Christ came again upon earth
he would look for his followers among the
Republicans of France, or even among the Nihil-
ists of Russia, rather than in the barracks or
the Stock Exchange, or the court, or any other
eminent class of European society. Putting aside
the abomination of Free Love, at which very few
of our rich men are entitled to throw stones, and
which very few real Republicans hold, we yet
claim for the movement that It has the courage of
its ideas, the faith which makes martyrs, and the
love which sacrifices itself for humanity. We
regret that in such a community as our own, whore
democracy, if it is less fervid, is also less extrava-
gant than in Europe, the Churches habitually
throw themselves into the ranks of its enemies.
Even Dr. Moorhouse, though he wishes to gather
tb® fruits, will not plant the tree.’’
The Wellington correspondent ot the
Taranaki News Is in trouble. He has been
quested to make himself pleasant and seated by
withdrawing from the Treat gallery rtf the As-
sembly. The request wot accompanied by Such a
display of force, in the shape of hob-balled boots
tenanted by stalwart policemen, that he left With-
out expressing any desire to “ argy.” Jprdpps of
the lawmakers, he had sept to hit journal; “Mem-
ber* have to be Sought for In houses of lli-iame,
for the purpose of becoming tfieit votes when a
division is Palled for.” 3d the Gallery-Ch Airman,
Mr. (itllon, interviewed the Seb£eant-at-Arms, and
dwelt with some 'emObaSaS On thh falsehood of the
attack made On rCgfelatlYq, mdranty. The result
haS been stated. Whether the correspondent’s
assertion iB wholly true, entirely false, or half-and-
half, It Seems to bo an open secret that each session
of the New Zealand Parliament brings to Welling-
ton an increase of female loveliness and abandon,
and that with each prorogation numbers of Inno-
cent faces known on the block (and to the police)
disappear like the swallows, and ere lost sight of
till members again assemble at their country's call.
*• Hurst’s pig ” has become as historical as
Napoleon’s favourite horse Marengo—“ wot ” (we
quote from the peripatetic showman of our
youth) “carried 'im hat the battle o’ Marengo.”
Hurst is a New Zealand legislator. He bad a pig.
Upon this animal he lavished more care tban the
late Mr. Mears on his clock—and with results as
discouraging :—
“ There was a man, he had a clock,
His name was Michael Mears,
He wound It reg'lar eV'ry night
Per nearly twenty years.
At last this precious time-piece proved
An eight-day clock to be,
And a madder man than Mr. Mears
You would not wish to see.”
Well, to be brief, Hurst is an artist. He Is alleged
to have painted his pig—not on canvass—not on
wainscot or panel—but fair on the creature's
epidermis, from the snout to the extreme convo-
lution of the tail. It was for a show, and he
coveted first prize. So, by means of blacking-
brushes, white lead, ochre, and Indigo, he turned
out an animal that It would be no Idolatry to
worship, for it resembled nothing In the heavens
above or on the earth or in the waters
under the earth. At the show there was no
getting near it, and, but tor a shower of
rain, no other pig was “in it.” But the
shower came and the brute ran. In ten minutes
no more odd-looking creature was ever seen out of
Central Africa. With that delicacy of feeling,
which prompts men to remember their neighbour s
mistakes and to keep them constantly in mind of
them, Mr. Hurst’s townsmen seldom let slip a
chance of congratulating him on his success as an
artist. The last time was in the “House.”
M’Donald—Jolly fellow, Mac., we met him once at
Waiwera—was perorating on the spectacle of Bryce
standing at the Bar of Heaven sandwiched between
Te Kooti and Te Wetere. repelling with scorn
before a mixed jury of Maoris and Pakekas the
charges brought against him by Rusden. Hurst
chipped in with “ Perhaps the honorable member
for the East Coast (M’Donald) would not be there
himself.” “ I’ve been endeavouring to paint a
picture,” replied Mac.; “but modesty compels me
to confess my inferiority to the hen. member
(Hurst) in the art of painting—specially pigs.”
Then from Hurst’s life the light seemed to have
suddenly gone out, and ho now lives for revenge
alone.
Here is a splendid example of banking im-
pudence. The other day, ail who had money in a
certain bank at Port Darwin received the follow-
ing for signature:—” 1st May, 1883. To the manager
of the Bank, Palmerston, N.T. In considera-
tion of your having this day agreed to allow me to
continue my account with your bank here, 1
hereby agree that all payments to be made by you
in respect of such account may be so made by bank
notes payable in Adelaide, or if I require payment
in gold by sovereigns at a premium charge of 3^
Eer cent, on such sovereigns, or as I may require
y bank draft at current rates of exchange on
Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne, or London. Wit-
ness, .”
Mr. William Fleming, of Clarence-street,
the well-known buggy and waggon importer, has
made a big hit with his extensive importation of
the American Farm Waggons. These waggons are
as extraordinarily light as they are extraordinarily
strong, and their popularity throughout the
country districts of this colony and Queensland is
well assured.*
The Missing Explorers.
Titte little paffcjr rtf exhibits, codstatiiigQfc
Messrs. O’ljonnelr, Cart-Bpya,. O’Mqllpy;
Lth&tite, And West, ,Has now i been long pm
heard of, arid fedrs dre entertained .ips,t thqy
rady haVe idet thd frequently
eoiiutered iW Australian, explorers,
ciirhlVed to idok of, yater, or to attacks by
the datives, -It seems only yesterday that
young Carr-Boyd was in The Bulletin
office, gaily discussing the expedition he was
about to enter upon, and enjoying a jest
which coupled with a request for his portrait,
a remark that it might come in useful if the
blacks got hold of him. There is some
disci epancy between the statement as
to the actual direction said to have
been taken by the explorers, and the
line they proposed to follow. When
they were iu Sydney, they purchase I horses
for shipment to Port Darwin, whence they
intended to mark a practicable road for
stock, &c. to the Ord ilivor. It was their
intention thence to run the river down to Its
supposed mouth in Cambridge Gulf, ami
then thoroughly explore and inspect big
tracts of laud leased by the Cambridge
Downs Pastoral Association on the Ord
watershed. Another object was to form a
depot at the mouth of the Ord, with a view
to the establishment of a future township.
As Messrs. O’Donnell and Boyd are both ex-
perienced explorers, and their associates are
thorough bushmen, the chances are all In
favour of the party yet turning up all right.
Sydney ad a dash Market fer Colonial
Produce.
A NEW AND PRACTICAL STE P.
It might not be very diffecrilt to trace the carise di:
the agricultural depression that has often afflicted
this colony, to the fact that for years Sydney had
no active, well, or systematically managed market
for colonial produce. For a very long time this
city has been a grand centre for the prompt sale of
merchandise or English or foreign manufacture!
allowing of the diffusion of many hundreds, OT
thousands of pounds worth of vftlilrible g0 )d§ that
otherwise would hav“ feiri dried Bn this liririortor §
hands. For tfite Ia8t tteri i'teilrS the BaitoliU product-
of the thrtete teoldniteS heS likewise foUnd ri.lBathlc
here, thte pHtetefi, pririttteiljriHy cmrlri# thte lafel hkddt
three ytears, btelrig ttioSt Sritlsfactriry t.B this silUatthl’
But, stlahgte to Say; ill rcSpetet of rigriolilfcilral
Crodurie, nobity hasbfeeriwoi-seserved. While Me -
ourne, Adelaide, Brisbane; Auckland, and even
Hobart Triwh have had thelh cbritres for thte Sate
of agricultural prodricte; rin thte Autetlon System; this
colony has been without ahy Such system or teehtr'e;
being content to continue on with the all client
system of sale by consignment to agents, who;
however honest and enterprising, were inextri-
cably hampered by a system which they all sccitetlte
condemned. The farmers themsolveS wetee the
first to seo the necessity for a radical fchahgte, arid
It is surprising they delayed so lortg. t Who, tnai
has seen thousands of poilndS’ w.oteth or pei-isnabie
produce watting a Bui-chas'er for weeks pp the
wharves and in thip stoites; Ms not iHougilt that
the whole Systerh dr our metrripplltan, pfridiiejs
market was a failure) teritaimig.irreparable IqSs op
the producer, and creating dlsguSt pmong the
craving public. Thte S’buth Coast, Western, Huptef
River, imd (Jlrirfentee frir triers, as iri pyptty well
known from tteport's In the Press, moved for re-
form, and for thte last two years there has been
much talkee-talkee about central produce marts,
&c. But, as is the case all the world over, prac-
tical relorm comes from one individual or set of
individuals with more enterprise than the rest, and
the desiderated change is effected. Now, the
men who are effecting this much-desired wholesale
reform In the disposal of colonial produce are the
Messrs. Tate Brothers, of Sussex-strcet, in this city.
For the last fifteen months this firm have been
quietly feeling their way to the creation of a great
central auction mart for the disposal of all descrip-
tions of produce—and this has been done while
hundreds have been “talking” of doing the same
thing. By the action of Messrs. Tate Brothers the
farmers of all the colonies, so far as the Sydney
market is concerned, are placed on a similar foot-
ing to the wealthy squatter. It would be interest-
ing to know what country wool-king would have
waited, as hundreds of farmers have had to wait,
for six, eight, or ten months, tor a return for his
consignments—often lingering the full period in
hopeful mood, to And that their produce had been
curiously disposed of at a time when the market
had reached its lowest ebb. It is in Wiping out this
old system that Messrs, Tate Brothers have done a
big stroke. They have, as it were, hitched on the
farmer to the great cash business which is every-
where being adopted in Sydney. After fifteen
months’ quiet operations, Messrs. Tate Brothers
have launched out on an extensive scale in
the auction sale of colonial produce—so that
Sussex-street, after being half a century behind
the times, is turned into a centre of business for
the farmer, just as Frazer and Co.’s in George-
street. is to the merchandise importer, or the wool
warehouses are to the far-distant squatter.
Messrs. Tate Brothers, after innumerable delays
and disappointments, secured premises in the very
heart of the produce trade, and at considerable ex-
pense, constructed an auction mart for produce.
The sale-room is capacious, sufficient to accommo-
date up to 500 people, and around the room is a
handsome crescent-shaped counter, on which are
displayed samples of all the produce to be offered
at auction. An elegant rostrum is erected at one
end of the room, with desks for clerks, &c., and
here each Thursday, at noon, or on any day that
may he arranged, sales of produce by auction
proceed just as is the case with thj mercantile
auction marts of the city. The advantages all
round are immense, and since the formal
opening of the mart, which took pace
on the 6th (going off with much ickit in the pre-
sence of many of the leading citizens) substantial
results are not wanting to prove the boon which
the change has effected. Immediately on the
arrival of produce consigned to the firm, a sample
is taken and displayed tor inspection. A cata-
logue, simple and correct in every particular, is
issued to the trade, and the sale extensively adver-
tised in the Press, with the result that the trade
and the cons; raing public are brought together, a
fair competition ensues, and an immediate clear-
ance of the whole line is effected—the consigner
fetting his returns in cash on the next day or so.
n the matter of disputes as to the character of
shipments. Messrs. Tate Brothers’ Auction Mart
has done much good. The shipments are imme-
diately placed at auction, and their value obtained
in the most legitimate way before any de-
preciation in value ensues. The commission agents
themselves find the mart of Immense advantage
for placing lines hanging on their hands, so that
the establishment of the affair is proving itself
of all - round advantage. That on the whole
better figures are likely to be obtained is proved
by the fact that the consuming public attend
as prompt cash buyers, and the hour of sale of
certain lines of produce—say, of hay, or of pota-
toes, grain, flour, butter, and so on—is so fixed and
adhered to, that a business man from the city, who
could not otherwise avail himself of the oppor-
tunity, can arrange to be present at the very
moment the goods ho requires are being placed
under the hammer. Messrs. Tate Brothers deserve
every credit for their enterprise, and that It is
appreciated already is proved by the immense in-
crease of business. Hundreds of farmers are
sending their lines to test the new system—with
the most satisfactory results. It la expected
Messrs. Tate Brothers will turn over between
£350,000 and £300,000 annually by this new auction
system.*
Mb. O’Donnell.
Mb. LiNAcbe.
Mr. Cabh-SovBi,
Mb, O’Malley.
THE MISSING EXPLORERS.


W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Maokay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Bunlnyong
Barrabool ..
Burwah
Cheviot
Derwent ..
Edina
"Gabo..
♦Balmain
♦ To arrive.
Fleet op Steamships:
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
NO. 4 PITT STREET.
I
ISMS
ltadu/^$oi
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
MEDICATED VAPOUR BATHS.
For those diseases where noxious drugs adminis-
tered through the stomach impair the constitution
of the unhappy recipient, and in many cases fall to
cure,
FACTS ARE STUBBORN THINGS.
II. W. COOPER eradicates the most inveterate
cases of disease, without medicine internally, in
less than a sixth of the time required for success
by any other treatment.
Rehef from Rheumatic Pains.
To Mr. Cooper—I can scarcely find words to
thank you for lie remarkable eure you have
effected in my oes*. I have suffered with bad legs
for over 10 years ; I have tried many doctors, and
taken everything advertised to cure, but I grew
worse, and sick of trying. My age is over 00.1 am
very stout, and, keeping a shop, am compelled to
walk about. My friends advised me to go to you.
1 now wish I had gone at first,—I should not have
suffered so long, and it would have been pounds in
my pocket. My legs are both healed up, and I am
quite well. If anyone doubts the genuineness of
your treatment, let them some to me, or any of
my friends who knew how I suffered. I may add
I improved fast from the first day I visited you.
f Mrs. Black,
August 4th, 1883. 317 Blizabeth-street.
To Mr. Cooper.—I wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my case. I had bad legs
for two years, and could get no relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a m'onth.
R. T. Eastway (Eastway Brothers),
George-street.
H. W. C. has voluntary testimony that would fill
a newspaper, and he has not been in the colony
twelve months.
340 CROWN STREET, opposite Reservoir.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH,
On GOLD, VULCANITE, &C.,
made on the most approved modern principles.
Warranted to combine fit, comfort, and durability,
with perfectly natural appearance.
All dental operations performed with skill. Pain-
less extractions. Teeth stopped.
Charges strictly moderate.
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SURGEON DENTISTS,
lOO Market-street, near Hyde Park.
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY,
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Boyd's Beard Klizlr did this, and will do It
on either bald {lead or bare face. * Forces
heavy Moustache in from 'i to 4 weeks and
never (aiU. 2U,(J1)0 young men already wear
f Cull beard, haWag used 1. to 3 pkt'a. No
Injury, easily appbed. certain in effect.
Packets Is- t-d. eacb‘,3 for 3a: bdivposl paid,
sent under eorer.free from observation. Address,Frank Douglas,
Sole Agent, Box 73u. G.P.O., Sydney, N.S W.
‘WHAT IS A SECRET?’
1METHING told to everybody In a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
• will study both “Comfort and Economy” in
ng their supply of WOOD and COAL from
NOTTINO & CO.,
AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowpkk’b Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
i AL
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
'IST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
th<' I,A l!< i E8 r,
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
g Harris, entertained _their RJH.PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLANWILLIAM,
“and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1252,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner A la Rime, f ®r 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN —re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 3.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
V isit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Ex hi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER,
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner A la Busse at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner d la Rms* to the INTERCOLONIAL RIFLE
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKES-
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquel
Boom.
ABMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evenins
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-W0D0N6A RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION.—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Russe in the N.S.W,
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners.
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls. Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
TT is hereby notified that an Examination of
I Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in November next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 22nd June, 1883.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
13T 308 GEORGE STREET.
n ATS*
18^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCfl
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAG BN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
' MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TO BACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone cqn
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate nrice
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY,
WOOL SALES, 1883.
MY very numerous constituents, and alt in-
terested in the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
shall be prepared to do the fullest justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Dank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or other Produce on ray account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OF SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
SALES of LIVE STOCK, TALLOW, HIDES.
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
■WORT and CO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers.
Wool,
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT,
Wool Warehouses and Produce Stores,
CIRCULAR QUAY
and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
NOTICE TO WORKMEN.
MR. BLUNT announces that work will com-
mence on his contract,
HAWKESBURY RIVER TO GOSFORD,
on
MONDAY, mh SEPTEMBER,
when his old workmen are invited to rally round
him.
MAIN CAMP, GOSFORD.
Gosford is easily reached by steamer from King-
street Wharf, Sydney, daily. Fares, from 3s. to 6s.
By road from Newcastle the distance to Gosford
is 50 miles ; from Maitland to Gosford 00 miles.
The work being in sand and sandstone cuttings,
men are guaranteed three years’ continuous work
in fine weather, and no loss of time.
The works are within three hours’ run by steamer
ot Sydney, and families will enjoy all tho advan-
tages ef a residence in Sydney, with a cheaper rate
of living.
GOOD WATER and FIREWOOD obtainable at
all points of the works ; and SCHOOLS will bo
opened up for families where necessary,
GEORGE BLUNT,
Main Camp, Gosford.
HAWKESBURY RIVER TO GOSFORD.
WANTED, MINERS to drive 9x9 Headings,
through sandstone cuttings, from 500 to
2000 feet in length. Tools and waggons will be
found. Contractors to find their own horses.
GEORGE BLUNT,
Railway Contractor,
Gosford.
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
44 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
Importers of
WEIGHING
MACHINES,
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS,
AND
MACHINERY.
260. B
BROWN & MAY’S
Portable Engines, Saw Benches, Chaff Cutters,
Horse Gear, &«.
UlUri HOTEL.
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBURN.
P
UBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1861,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOT?
W. H. PALING,
35C GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TOMS®
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following renowned English, French, and
German Makers: —
Erard
Pleyel
Coliard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Kirkman
Soufleto
Trost & Co.
Llpp & Sohn
Auoher Elcke
Ronlsch Paling & CO.
Hundt & Sohn A. Bord
Bluthner Berden & Co.
Steinway Herz
Schledmayer Schwechten
Challen & Son Schwander,
Ecke Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company;
Waters & Co., Pelocbbrt, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition,
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
PALING & CO.’S PIANOS have taken SEVERAL
PHIZES at the LATE AUSTRALIAN INTER-
NATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
W . H . Ta ling,
Pianoforte, Organ & Harmonium Galleries,
356 GEGRGE STREET.
iffiF
min
MabvestIn
*CHf»lEfrg
Sll
CHAMPION
ENGINE-5-
AND
THRi
1
mul
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
22 and 23 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MOULTON’S
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as It is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor,
PILLS
DL
Mar
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brano
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured every whore.
CATTBLL & CO., Sole Agents.


THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS’ COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES.
TRADE MARK REGISTERED
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB.
Jut: Mi Si Copy.,
Intending Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
Should Write to Us or Call on Us.
As we have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLUB BICVCLBS and
TRICYCLES, we never fail to give
purchasers the best satisfaction.
We have permission from the loading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer inquirers
as to the merits of our machines to
them, and we shall take pleasure in
doing this whenever requested, as their
f ood recommendation has already sold
or us a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine.
SPECIAL AGENCY:
THE IMPERIAL CLUB
THE CHEYLESMORE CLUB.
389 George Street, opposite
Royal Hotel.
H. P. GREGORY.
H. SHAW SMITH.
S. W. GREGORY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO..
Engineers&Machinery Merchants
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Korting’s Injectors
Eclipse Windmills
Sturtevant’s Fans.
Fay & Co.’s Woodworking Machinery
Tanite Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TRICYCLES.
JUST ARRIVED, a large shipment of the
celebrated
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladles or Gentlemen.
I®" Send for lists and TERMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers.
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street.
☆
?OoO v ,
Sfl
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO,
are the largest consumers off American
, Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
" position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos — Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.— Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
jgy~D. & 8., Importers of Pipes of every kind. Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries
ft
Palace of Art, 354 and 356
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N B —BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
PROSPECTUS
OF
I I
m
m
NO LIABILITY.
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE NO-LIABILITY ACT.
CAPITAL : £20,000, IN 20,000 SHALES OE £1 EACH.
three months alter date of Allotment ot snares.
Provisional Directors ;
Messrs. 11. PHILLIPS
W. E. POTTS
M. GTUGNI
H. M'KELLAR
MESSRS. P. SIMPSON
W. DREW
J. A. M'DONALD
M. KESSLER.
Bankers:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
lion. Treasurer, pro tc*n.
Mu. M. (JIUGNI.
Hon. Secretary, pro tcm.
Mr. M. KESSLER.
Solicitor, pro tem.
Mr. J. A. M'DONALD.
mil E discovery of the existence of Cold in AnUmony
I been worked for more thau two at H1U« Antimony Mine and tbe Hillgio\e Antimony
vie?", workingr these two properties, and to effectually carry out
lhta rd®roROT
when practicable to buy from or treat for the public
auriferous or plain Antimony ores. , . ntim .. r „ ns above mentioned, the operations will
In regard to the ,, u re h a sou rr en to fAri« raon y° r^S’ c^”Aata p ri ee regulated’according to
be based on purely commercial principles, t he raw _o p ©Derations have been carried on by
tinTe. with satisfactory results to themselves as
thlB lCffip2ffi! proximity to each other, and the Smelting Works Property occupies a
““tSSSSS ‘SafSrtSaaR-worl.ea for Antimony only, and although
hnnndarv bet wee at he Eleanor a and Isabella Mines, the reefs gradually descend down a gorge
vrormiOfft deep circumstance facilitates the economical working of the mine considerably.
2,!® 1 tnVnpd atauv deDth below the level of the tableland without previously sinking a
1 he i cot may bo tapped at. any uep ™ engineering difficulties exist, the raising of Stone
cost y mumshait to attain this depth. are now erecting their crushing battery.
of November, when the full value of
the The £ aS t on the surface, and actually visible, within the boundaries of the
Tomlin Iftnp ia estimated at between two and three thousand tons, winch will be raised at a very low
J.nsV ° nwn'fisiJtfctfug 1 1 ;h e minef the i cef s have been opened and exposed to view in many places
thrmifd outtFieproperty, and pieces may be broken off the reef anywhere, which will assay very
favourably* In tie Isabella Mine gold is plainly visible in tbe solid reef in many places along the
lme rt is not proposed to call up mere than six or seven shillings per share, for, in all probability, about
,,, JomC a P t lM8t cotluntil it should be deemed desirable by the Company to enter into the purchase
mid treatment $ Antimony ore. It is confidently expected tliat the expenditure of this proportion of
the capital will make the mine a dividend-paying concexm.
The Share List will POSITIVELY CLOSE on the 7th October next, or sooner
if the required number of Shares are applied for.
Application for Shares will be received by the Secretary, or any of the
* Directors, in the following form
'APPLICATION FORM.
To the Provisional Directors of “ The N 2gSf ]it ®J 1 . d A^S1^K mony Mining SmeltInff Company ’
Gentlemen, the gura of £ being a Deposit of One Shilling per Share for
A ’ J Shares, ot One Pound each, in the above Company, which I request you
ap Fi mmt°nip- andI hereby'agree to accept the same, or any less number that may be allotted, subject
he movfsions of the Memorandum and Articles of Association constituting the Company, which I
hereby iagree to execute when called upon to do so.
Name in full
Occupation
Residence
Date
THE SMITH AMERICAN ORGAN,
No less than 77 landed, at from 12 to 90 Guineas.
The 12-GUINEA ORGAN,
marvel of cheapness.
The “CONNOISSEUR” ORGAN
stru ml is J specially made for Profes-
sional Musicians, and for Church, Concert, or Lodge use.
The SMITH OLGANS were awarded the Only First Prize
at the Melbourne Exhibition.
Price Lists, for CASH or EASY TERMS, on application to the Sole Agents,
281 GEORGE STREET.
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are Vice kinut, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the fellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
Is invaluable to peisons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
§ums, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suiier again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label beats the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London,"
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief 1 " 1
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at mjfm
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, u“u
them invaluable, as they instantly check tu*
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pa*
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against
see that each box hears the name of “ Wilcox am
Co., 239 Oxford-etreel, London


°06
RUMfO?2
'jm&s
Prepared according to the directions o. Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED EOR
m^m^ E a PSIA ’ headac hk. INDIGESTION,
mknt a l and physical exhaustion,
impaired vitality, nervous disea SUN
Hysteria, wakefulness. SEA-Sicl™
WEAKENED ENERGY. &o. N ES8.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
• from Overwork.
•MugM*li Circulation and (.rowing Chil-
dren. **
I have used yom- mfd mnTro
valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia nervmm
depression following overwork and anxiety as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there i«
venous stagnation and sluggish olroXtlona di.il
Sfavy .head; it is of undoubted valueFasVgr™.
!ng children require this valuable addition S
W. H. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Inrceard to the
“<• wl5,°K&{
my patients it has agreed wonderfully 3 U
0, G. C1LLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
.. it A ' Carpenter. M.D., Keene, N.H.. savs •
cine 11 8 , A ?i d Phosphate is a valuable modi-
„/jo- J have taken It myself, and tor several
from S r t!a® d !t my Patients, when suffering
'ffestion or innervation of the digestive
«2'. aD( always with satisfactory result* It Is
urine 1 * }? 0 ’ ftl i d 1,1 some cases of morbid
result if i- te i likeac ? ar ?’ producing the desired
stomach 14 eaS ? nt to the Jasto, acceptable to the
vaCbt’eXpound.“ y ° Pla, ° n ’ ane *^‘cntaud
Can lie borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
„ . ,, Fair Haven, N.Y., March 1880
Horsford s Acid Phosphate, In elegance ofcom-
stands unrivalled. '■* "
--Ste, and can be bon.e by _ _
?_ .Have prescribed ft with marked“bonoflt
position, stands unri
tar
, ... U1 CUU1-
r D V- —rr r ~~ ““* * Y * it is pleasant to the
_ an( * T ? an borne by the most sensitive
(Rt-nmuni iL wnn marked benefit
In indigestion and urinary troubles, it fornTan
win 6 ) fJ’ni Substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£ag"lc Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ K Works like a Charm."
-Jl 1 * aotan olly ’ ****** or 8t,cky substance, bul
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy It gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity , curiug pains as water quenches Are. It cure*
Pprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lrnno Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects tbt
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, hour
Stomach, Coughs, S ire Throat, and Dyp,
A f ot « e <> f RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGI
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use J
case of emergency, will often save a life or a ion
and tedious sickness.
Sold by and Dealers la
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the bast Imported Into this country, and hav
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected am
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested befors
used '
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. ]
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used In their i.nish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under speda
instructions to, and personal supervision of
one of the leading carriage builders In America’
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And B^ ause a 11 who use them say thky ahk thb
Ameiican Carriag’e Emporium
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO..
.. - - 8oto Aron tm
Alexander I., of Bulgaria, according to
cablegrams in the morning papers, is about “to
abolish the present despotic form of government,
and substitute for It a constitutional term.” Such
is hardly the proper way of putting it, since Bul-
garia possesses a national assembly elected by
manhood suffrage and a form of responsible Go-
vernment. What has happened is probably this:
Alexander has resigned back to the National As-
sembly of Bulgaria the extraordinary legislative
powers with which, in July, 1881, that body invested
him for twelve years.
It is through Ballarat most Slate secrets
percolate to Melbourne now. The last whisper is
that Berry covets, and is about to get, one of the
newly-created Commisioncrshlps of Hailways. W G
don t believe he covets it. The reason lor our un-
beHef is that we see no sign that Victoria is not as
foolish now as it was three years ago. Berry can
do well enough as a politician. But if we thought
ho coveted it, wo should be sure he’d get it. The
reason for our belief is that we see no sign that
Victoria is not as foolish now as it was three years
a 8°- It would give Berry what he covets. But
wo don t beheve the whisper. The reason for our
unbelief is that it came from Major Smith, and bar
Uerry him s eJt, he is the biggest—well, whopper
(politically. you know) in the colony. Tace. tace,
Ballarat I Berry will die in the harness of hum-
bug.
How can women kiss those smudge-faced,
pulpy, unfinished atoms of humanity-babies ?
sup ?P 8e i8 hecause a woman will
kiss anything- rather than nothing. If there is
oTa top of ,P od ’ 8 Krocn eartli utterly
hftBi^ b it’ ff e . ne rally repugnant to a man of
8entinae ut, it is somebody else’s baby.
Indecisive men have been known to yield in a
eilt . to the solicitations of fond mothers,
and do that which their soul abhorred ; but such
nn/,w£ n a* e f have always found it necessary to go
out immediately afterwards on a protracted “spree”
n° rec pver their self-respect. Men who
k - up 1° a bombshell and pour water on
tte riug fuse, have been seen to quail and
abject terror before the muzzle of a baby,
Sm 1 £. wa l not loaded. Some men
tv,o Q f t i ind l l i? d le fc babies be pointed at them ; but
these are the sort of men who blow down gun-
te?hm° 01 wi T th Circular saws, and do almost any
who wm Tt is , a fact that a man
ybo wm knowingly kiss a baby is generally ad-
andflL™ ia h o eD1 U n and yorsted work and gossip,
a yd ther e Is a well-grounded suspicion that he will
sheep- This baby-kissing tends to make
hypocrites of good-natured men, and there ought i
dniwna crusade against the pernicious practice in-
nnonfiJ Perpetrators of babies, and fre-
?MhJ2L ab t tte^ by tbe Proud instigators of those
?otoa?-them"M n f„C° trtvanoes - 01 reoklessly
Of the 3,815,000 who form the enumerated
(1881 census) population of the metropolis of the
Empire the richest city in the world, —no less
than 84,631 are actual paupers. Progress and
Poverty, by George I
An old story in a new garb Two vounir
adms were returning from California, The pa£
station o'™ 8 crowded with passengers. At a small
„ T m s *? ow y attire entered, and de-
whol°,section. It was not to be had.
When it seemed impossible to get her a whole
section, or even a half one, she turned to the
: “Will you consent to take
the upper berth of your section, and lot me have
the lower ? Sorry we can’t oblige you.” replied
one of the pick-cheeked fairies. Then the big
blonde straightened herself up, and said • “p e £
Imps you don’t know who I am ?” “ No, we don’t.”
wi'll ..V 31 y w 11 ’ ,® a , ld woman in silks and
Mrs. ColonelDunlevy Wickersham.”
(Uunlcvy Wickersham is known all along that end
ot the road as a bonanza man.) “Are you. in.
™ ed a replied the Hoosier maiden ; “perhaps
P*“ d °? H 1 J“K> W . wh o. I am ?” Madame Bonanza’s
face said that she didn’t, and also that she had
?.T°A u r, io8t /: ** We H. I am Mrs. General Grant.”
k iV5 d ,?-„ 8ai .? her companion, who had hitherto
kept silent, “am Queen Victoria.”
Granville, the F.O. Secretary, has been
denar? mnn t** ha 1 1 +v? 16 8ucki . n «’ ambassadors of his
department that they must take greater care In
i^°hi| e «Srm h i e Q Vh e ?’ 8 ..^ agrl i sh - He in torms them
that “demission” for dismissal,
transaction for compromise, “ veridical ” for
** arrest, “increasoment ”
for SSSSS :. ex P°? e , f ,9 r r ex Plaln, “ destitution ”
rtlf 8 | n S a ' -x “innnal for very small, “ anteee-
“tnL S u ft n y * for previous understanding-,
“ ° H to # ok note- suscitated ” for raised,
me?ded ” d *< f f ? r lrom - “ disrecom-
mended, unmotived,” “spiritiste,” &c., won’t
the Vi °toria and Albert (the Royal
Jlfent), there are three others entirely devoted to
FlL Qu n?h U „ S n 8 n rvlC0 7‘ thc 9 8b omo, Alberta, and
wan. The Osborne is a splendid ship, fitted at an
enormous cost, and In all respects seaworthy. The
bnn?a S a™ of lesser size, and used as despatch
boats between Osborne and Portsmouth, and for
the conveyance of the other members of the Koyal
f-m?n!i y ',n r p e Y lct0ri il an ? Albert lies all the year
round in Portsmouth dockyard. She is fully
officered, and has a full crow of seamen livimr in
idleness at a vast expense to the nation. She has
y iJn e ,u Q r,V n i n ® d f0Ur a y6ar for tke Pr-'f
£1oB«v nn°o a ?M egat0 afc the rate of
day ! . 0ne ab l® seaman’s sole duty is to
clean the royal arms on the fire-buckets!
The Rum wishes it distinctly remembered
that it was the first paper to point out why the
Idea of a schools’ review should never have been
entertained, and we have much pleasure in begging
our friends to respect the wishes of our reminiscent
contemporary. It should also be remembered that
the Rum was the first (and, indeed, the only) paper
to inform New South Welshmen that to Archbishop
Folding’s memory no monument had been reared.
We must also credit the Rum with being the first
and only paper to inform the world that Mr. I R
Cohen was engaged in the publication of his last
work of fiction.
More misery! Even the friendly refuge
of our uncle’s doors will soon be closed upon us
» r - says: “There is not theleaSt dSubt
that the propagation of disease is carried on far
“istrlcf than y h b /, a “ a poor
(Usenet than by a dozen defective sewers and
drains. Fancy bringing h-ane a blanket full of
measles from a pawnshop sale, or catching the
small-pox from an old Mat-iron, or a pair of
‘voraes !’’ But there is another and morp serious
aspect to this question. Shouldn’t Dr Carnenfor
be hanged for thus comparing to sowers a nmnhnr
of respectable Hebrew gentlemen ? number
, 18 , a temperance sermon. The late
n, b p™ b t er am ., Cllfford ’ Publican, of Kiandru died
hoart°dti^Vfio dra A 0the ? day > a * ed about 50, of
thathownf®" f At th ® vmt mnrtem ’twns elicited
month Uo ChUdrenat one fell swoop u
hinXS^ 8^ a 8 mi }^ n is in London, and of
tilings, in the N Y. Spirit-—“ OutT™*** oth ? r
splendid health when I arrived 1 J >"?,l be ®v 1,1
WMMmM
MIND VERSUS MATTER.


Mr. Cooper, a planter at Raki Raki (Fiji),
heard some natives plundering his turkey-house,
one night, and let fly among them with a shot-gun.
Some pellets reached one of the crowd, and Cooper
was straightway arrested and committed for trial.
His confidence in the legal institutions of Fiji was
such that, selling his place for whatever he could
get, he, after leaving money to indemnify his bail
bondsmen, secretly cleared for ’Frisco.
The Bishop of Melbourne is still tilting
against the windmills of Nihilism, Socialism, and
Agnosticism. Modern Liberalism also receives
some telling back-handers from the doughty
churchman. And now the Age takes “Modern
Liberalism ” under its wing, and inter alia says:—
“The Nihilists, as at present known to us, are men
of austere morality. . . . Still, In judging any
great party, we do not look only to the outbursts
of fanaticism, which have disgraced it
Treat republicanism as you treat any great move-
ment, by what it wishes to destroy, by what it
wishes to substitute, and by its real leaders.”
Ventrebleu\ To think of sentiments like these
coming from lips that but yesterday found no
curses deep enough to express their detestation of
a movement which—disgraced, as all such move-
ments are by the crimes of their undisciplined
hangers-on—has still succeeded in obtaining for
the starving children of starving peasants, a few
crumbs of the bread formerly used for the support
of drones I David Symel David Symell It is
indeed time for the Radicals to arise against you
and your once-democratic journal.
A French writer once set himself gravely
to discuss the question “ whether it was possible
for a German to have esprit.” With more reason,
judging by recent events, might Ave set ourselves
about arguing whether it Is possible for a Queens-
lander to have any sense. Some Queenslanders, of
course. The recent election up there brought out
such instances of stupendous idiocy that the ques-
tion is more than justified. One instance is
enough. A candidate put up for North Ipswich.
Ho was unpopular, and the electors of that home
of art and culture let him know it in a very char-
acteristic fashion. They went out out in proces-
sion and burnt him in effigy. Their indignation
was so strong that even this did not satisfy them.
So they burnt him in effigy again. A hundred
howling lunatics dragging about a rag scarecrow,
and then consigning it frantically to the flames!
This would have been a nice sight for a philoso-
pher. Wo can fancy some theorist about the pro-
gress of the human x-ace dropping suddenly Into
the midst of this crowd. Ho would go home and
eat ashes for ever after. Or more likely he would
imagine he was dead and in Tophet. Which would
be so near the truth that the difference is hardly
worth speaking about.
A Queensland journal, referring to the
fact that the staff of another paper had removed
into new premises, remarks that: “ It is not
often that compos. In the far North are blessed
with such large and well-ventilated quarters.”
Well, now, what is this ? We have been in the far
North and we want to know. As far as our ex-
perience of compos, up there goes, we know that
a large number of them have the best ventilated
quarters possible—that is to say, they set up their
type in a back-yard and sleep in a paddock. We
have seen the machine working in a garden, and
the steam-power utilising the time when he was
not at the handle in hoeing turnips. Yet, come to
think of it, we have seen the glorious labour of en-
lightenment going on in rather close places. We
have seen it going on in a pit, roofed over with an
old tarpaulin. We have seen it seething along in
the wing of a weatherboard grog-shanty ; and the
compos, seemed happy, though the owner of the
shanty looked sad. But, as a general thing, Queens-
land journalism is well-ventilated. It has to be,
for fear of fire. The Insurance Companies up
there—this is by the way—don’t care much about
insuring far Northern newspaper offices, because
the language of the editors is so inflammable. But
the editors are hardly to blame for this. When
one is in Gehenna one does as Gehenna dees.
Poor “ J. B. Newcastle” puts us much in
mind of Mrs. Partington. He Imagines, with his
little mop of Cambridge theologlo (which is no
more logic than a soap bubble is an opal) to stem
back the advancing tide of lay distrust in church
systems. He answers Higinbotham Avith some
dogmatic assertion covered by a name big only
in the estimation of Cambridge common rooms.
Or he quotes the opinions of the Guardian as an
answer to the statement of his opponent. Or ho
culls you an extract from a great thinker, imagin-
ing it suits his book, whereas it (ells against him.
As for instance, to the question, “Upon xrhat kind
of evidence does an ‘ educated, thinking’ layman
rely when brought face to face Avith the trials and
sorrows of life ?” He furnishes as an ansxver
Tennyson’s lines : —
“ I found Him not in world or sun,
Or eagle’s wing, or insect’s eye ;
Nor through the questions men may try.
The petty cobwebs avo have spun.
“ If e’er Avhen faith had fall’n asleep,
I heard a voice ‘ believe no more.’
And heard an ever-breaking shore
That tumbled in the Godless deep ;
“A warmth Avithin the breast would melt
The freezing reason’s colder part.
And like a man in wrath the heart
Stood up and answered, ‘ I have felt.’ ”
Now, isn’t it passing strange that J. B. Newcastle
never notices that ’tis just the church system and
the theologio creeds that the laureate refers to as
the petty cobwebs men have spun ?
The only safe and sure cure for Gravel or
Urinary troubles, is Hop Bitters. Prove it. Read.
Our New Contemporary.
We have seen the new-fledged Goull*jrn
Southern Free Fbess. We have read “Goulburn
Gossip ” therein, and, though xve are still but
poorly, the worst is over. “Why, Jiminy Crikey,
Mr. Editor.” Those are the words contributed by
the man who gets a grip on the local matters, and
gives people “ turns.” Those are the words, oozy
and dripping Avith the clammy glamour of a
hideous originality. We were turning the butter
out on our tin plate, Avhen the seer-like remark
caught us out. We took the paper and scraped it
real clean, and leaned against the back fence and
read it again and again, Avhile the crushed-goose-
berry drops of agony stood out on our broxv and
Incipient madness lit a blue glare in our strained
eyes. Then all the gladness of the broad fair day-
light died out of the world —the fence rocked and
receded, and the black nothingness of a swoon
absorbed us. We seemed to be xvandering away
through dim, strange vastnesses of space, with no
beacon but a lurid unholy volume of lightifi front,
which we felt ourselves sucked towards, as it
were. We knew what Avas up then. We
were in Gehenna — the real orthodox Primi-
tive Methodist Gehenna — the funnel-mouthed
pit with the other end out. We entered trem-
blingly to a vast black passage or stoking-room,
where twenty millions of swivel-eyed, knock-
kneed, bottle-nosed fiends moved in squadrons
and squares, and carelessly bvxndled Bernma coal
into the incandescent feed-holes of Hades. Twenty
millions of coal-scoops fell with a crash to the
brazen floor on our entrance; tweixty millions of
backs, bowed apparently with the load of twenty
million ages of unmixed damnation, straightened
up as straightens the back of the conscientious
navvy when the ganger strolls over to the pub. to
see how the time goes; txventy millions of hooked
claws were extended to take us by the hand; tweuty
millions of voices as musical as Captain Sixther-
land’s shrieked “Welcome” in a united discord
unequalled by any Salvation crowd in the
trade ; and twenty millions of Brummagem-
flle steel dampers clanged doxvn their white-
hot slides, and shut the draught out. For the
information of J.N.U.Y, Davies, C.M.G., and other
of our friends Avho may never have a chance of
looking into these mattei’s for themselves, vre xvill
explaixx that these dampers prevent the fires
from melting the souls within, after they have
as much fuel to the square inch as they can
take, and also keep the cold air from going
in and giving them lumbago, and act as tea-
cosies generally. While the countless legions
shouted and danced all round us, Nicholas himself
stepped forward, and with the easy grace which is
characteristic, said to us: “Sir, you aro eternally
welcome—the more so, as you ax - e so prompt We
did not expect you for two or three issues yet.”
“ We do not understand you,” Ave faltered. ‘OK
I say, come,” ho made reply; “ who killed you ?
We were so overcome at seeing the scalps of two
Rechabite Chief Rulers and a Dissenting Minister
hung at his girdle that xve could not speak.
“ D n yoxx ” he said (we were surprised at such
language in such a public place), “perhaps xve’re
wrong after all. Aren’t you the fellow who
Avroto ‘ Goulburn Gossip,’ in the Southern
Free Press, when you Avere up there” —
vindicating the direction of the earth Avith his
thumb. “No —no —no!” we shrieked; “not that —
not that. Our sins are as scarlet, but not that. We
have been on the staff of sectarian nexyspapers —
we have heen a J.P. —xve have been on libel juries
—we have been offered knighthood—we have been
aldermen, but not that.” “ Why, Jiminy Crikey!”
said the Foul Fiend, sharply, xvatching us intently
the while; but we moved not a muscle; and, turn-
ing to his myrmidons, he said, plaintively, Evi-
dently we’re had—let this person go out again, and
take his own time for it. I watched his face when
he said * Jiminy Crikey,’ and if he had Invented that
phrase he would have looked proud and conscious.
Excuse me,” he added, turning to us, “ for having
used such slang before you. But xve have some-
times to adopt almost criminal means to
detect crime and dipper justice out justly.
Open all the flues again, and make her
roar; he’s got to be here soon, anyhow.
The Smith Organ Company.
The world-renowned Smith Or (ran Company hav-
ing: successfully introduced their celebrated manu-
factures to every city in the Avorld, have now
arranged for a supply to the Australian public,
Adelaide, elbourne, Sydney, and Brisbane now
have branch agencies, and the best and cheapest
organs manufactured by the firm are at present
obtainable. The shipment to Messrs. < ramptonand
Bruce, of 281 George-street, is the most ex-
tensive yet made to any single house in Australia,
and embraces instruments ranging in price from
twelve to ninety guineas. The twelve-guinea organ
(with live octaves and a knee swell) is a marvel of
cheapness, and is of elegant appearance, with full
rich tone. It is bound to find its way into many
homes in the city and country districts. The
organs ranging to higher figures are splendid
Instruments, and are certain to meet with a
very big sale. The “Connoisseur” is really the
masterpiece of the Smith Organ Company. It is
suited for churches, concert or lodge room, and is
highly prized by professional players. David Lee,
Julius Herz, and other distinguished musicians in
Melbourne give the Smith Organ Co.’s instruments
an extraordinarily high character; and, as a conse-
quence, the sale in the adjoining colony has ex-
Then we slowly came round, and found that the
Bishop’s goat (we always live next to a Bishop) had
been in and collected our butter, and left nothing
on our plate. We counsel the editor of the Free
Press to note this vision, and xvalk discreetly, for
the end of all things is near at hand; and if his
paper is intended to be x’ead by xvhites, let him
squat right doxvn on his “ Gossiper.” Then he may
prosiper—xvhich is poetry, though sich was not our
intentions. Even at present, xve daresay, his paper
is much appreciated—among the Bashi-Bazouks
and Hovas.
A Bucolic Bard.
We foresaw that something of this sort
Avould happen. When Swinburne, the splendid
maniac, “with morning in his eyes,” came on
the stage “fresh-girt for service of the latter
lyre,” and chaunted his wondrous rhapsodies, we
felt that an entirely new poetic cultus avrs born.
When Walt Whitman put his life-sized boot right
square down upon the mere ritualism of poetry,
and sang in fearful and wonderful jerks of pretty
nearly eA T erything from a gimlet to a President,
we became aware that the new order Avas jolting
in to replace the old. When Sladen, of Sydney,
backed his cart up to our back gate and tumbled
out his saga of “ Frithjof and Injebjoi'g.” we were
conscious that the ripe development and fruition
Avas at hand, and let our little belt out a hole, and
filed our yard-axe, and Avaited. We saw the dawn
of the Miise of the Future glorifying all the East,
and we knew that the time was eager for the new
voice. Something Avarned us—as the cold shudder
warned Betsy Trotwood that there must bo don-
key-boys trespassing on her far-off garden plot—
xvhen we took up the Goulbubn Penny Post,
the other day, that the consummation of poetic
evolution, the Renaissance of the pre-histonc, was
upon us. So, Avith reverent hand and white face
of aAve, Ave opened the paper and butted right up
against the “ Verification and Fulfilment of Time.
Here’s a slab of it :—
“ AAvay Ave started with rapid strides
To Hugh M’Lean’s wallaby drive.
The shooters there came avoII prepared,
And took their station with great care;
While lots of people there arrived
Upon their nags the stock to drive.
Through the woods they made them hop,
Before the shooters there they dropped
In hundreds on that day.
The woods around the hills did ring.
With whips and shouts they drove them in.”
There’s more just as weirdly and gruesomely
ghastly as this, and it is rounded off to a clean
finish with the couplet—
“ So thank you, shooters and drivers true,
To you, in chief, our thanks are due,”
and signed “ J.G.W.” As Belzoni standing rapt
before the long buried tomb of Sethi; as Smith, at
last deciphering a stone-graven secret of the
Copts; as Schliemann, rooting up an imperishable
trophy of ancient Troy—Ave stood bareheaded and
breathless before this authentic intermarriage of
the Past and Future—the paster and futurer the
better. We did not, even, as Bright accuses the
Bishop of Newcastle of having done, “ try to make
it jig with our fingers on the table.” We only
stood speechless, Avith our thoughts borne away
over the wastes of the dead past to primal Adam
sitting by the river’s brink in the Eastern Paradise
and scrawling “Lines to Eve ” in the blue mud of
the last “fresh” with a dry twig off the Tree
of the KnoAvledge of Good and Evil, or Cain
doing a “little thing of his own” on “My
Brother’s Grave,” in the very literary style which
J.G.W. unconsciously adopts. So old, and yet,
happily, so nexv to us was J.G.W.’s verse, that our
knees beat together and our tongue refused to
scoff. We have ere now disputed the laurels of
Tennyson; Ave have ventured to hint that Brown-
ing might be a little more perspicuous if he tried
harder, and wrestled in prayer now and then; we
have openly flouted Pastor Allen; and Ave came to
scoff at Sladen and remained to pray—that he may
be formally and completely and intentionally and
consumedly damned (in a Pickwickian, Parlia-
mentary, and poetic sense only, we mean). But
concerning J.G.W. we are silent. The others we
felt capable of talking to; but he is beyond us, and
we leave his poetry, as Reid left Mr. Knopp’s
creed, to be settled “ between himself and his
Creator.”
tended almost beyond the means of supply.
Messrs. Crampton and Bruce’s establishment in
this city has been visited by the leading profes-
sionals and amateurs of Sydney, who speak m very
high terms of these newly-imported organs. The
warehouse, which is, as stated, at 281 George-street,
is situated directly opposite Hunter-street, and
possesses one of the finest show-rooms in the
city. It is about 80 feet long, by 50 feet broad,
anil is brilliantly lighted from window and roof.
The result is with space and light, a display is
made of all the various descriptions of organs and
pianos imported by the firm, and the public have a
capital opportunity of judging of the tone, power,
and appearance of every instrument. The organs
now imported by Messrs. Crampton and Bruce, are
of the most elegant appearance, and are fitted with
several patented inventions for closing, storing of
music, increasing and diminishing volume ot
sound. Several of the organs having been in-
soected, have been purchased by well-known
citizens aod professional gentlemen—one in par-
ticular. selected tor the Fort-street School, by Mr.
J. C. Fisher, the well-known musical instructor-
The firm particularly request inspection of the
warehouse by the public, and are desirous of inti-
mating that all enquiries, per letter, from the
suburban and country districts will be promptly
attended to.
It is in science, arts, and literature that the
true peers are to be found. The word duko is
merely an Anglicised form of the Latin for leader.
What do our dukes lead ? asks an English paper*
if thev lead at all, they lead backwards ; they are
in opposition to the progress of the age, to all the
movements of the time. But there is no reason
why the name and the thing should be dissociated.
If titles must be conferred, why should not our
Tyndals, Huxleys, and Tennysons be recognised
as dukes in name as they are in fact ?
Little Rosie Dampier has written a drama
for her dolls. It is a tragedy, and one of the fun-
niest tragedies we ever heard of—except, perhaps,
these of her papa. There are all the usual charac-
ters and all the usual catastrophes. The situations
are strong, and the plot quite as good as many
written by older hands. Rosie is to bo lessee and
manageress of her own theatre, and is particularly
careful whom she lets in. For out own part, we
would much sooner see her dolls than see some
other dolls we know that are drawing salaries.
Full Private Henry Turner was one of the
survivors of the terrible and sanguinary conflict
of Isandula. He was also wounded at Rorke’s
Drift, and there got a bullet wound in the head,
a grim legacy, from the effects of which he died.
On the poor fellow’s death the “ hat ” had to be
sent round to avoid a pauper’s grave. This is the
treatment Great Britain gives her heroes, while
feather-bed heroes are decorated and paid with a
liberality which would have sent the Iron Duke
into a fit. The Duko of Connaught is to have an
Indian command for “ his services in Egypt,” and
even the Duke of Cambridge, who never got nearer
Tel-el-Kebir than the map of the place, received a
compliment for his services—hitherto undiscover-
able—in that marvellous military promenade. Men
like Private Turner, however, who have manned a
Thermopyhe, and who die from the effects of
wounds, are treated only a little more respectfully
than carrion in the hands of the cat’s-meat man.
New Zealand barmaids are coming to the
front. Tney intend to be trilled with no longer
Isabella Barry, of the Pacific Hotel, Auckland,
who appears to bo Bell-icose Jrather than Pacific,
was “ run ia ” the other day for threatening to let
daylight through one of the lodgers by means of a
revolver. There was a time when fun of this
kind made us look on our species with a jaundiced
eye; but we put up with it now, just as we put up
with itinerant preachers, stage Irishmen, colonial
titles, and Jew money-lenders—partly because we
cannot help it, and partly because a terrible day of
reckoning is almost at hand. But, while the Auck-
land lady was being accommodated with a soft
plank for only threatening, a more practical sister
In Dunedin called on a “ dude ” who, on the pre-
vious night, had outraged her sense of decorum
by some remark made over the bar engineered by
her. She brought a horsewhip, and used it until
he went for the window, taking the sash with him.
We trust these frolicsome damsels will remain in
Maoriland. There is little scope for talent like
theirs in this settlement.
The dramatic critic of the Australasian
has, of late, we see, adopted a now style. It must
be this, or else “Tanite” must by accident
have been taking some of his own prescriptions,
and be, consequently, indisposed. We are dm en
to either of these conclusions by a perusal of som
of the recent theatre-notices which appear in tnt
journal of which we are speaking. Here are som
critical gems : “ Of the acting what else cu
be said than that John Stofel and Lizzie Store! a.
of their kind, perfect? . . . And Mr. loro
again plays to perfection the Clergyman. • ■ ■
And Mr. Kelly a perfect Gaspard ; and Mr.
lace, as he always was, an irresistible Gono ,
Mr. Bonham a presumptuous and disastrous*
funny Bailee. . . Mr. woodfield is a complete (■
Grenicheux. . . . With regard to Marion ®
rose, you arc extremely glad when she comes o
the stage, and distinctly sorry when she goo® on
Finally, “ Miss Nelly Stewart makes a dene
Serpolette, and Miss Liddiard a not less denc
Germaine. . .” We don’t know whether tney
call this kind of thing criticism Melbomne.
Sydney we call it railway grease. Who caa b m
after reading this sad stuff, an actor or an a . .
for being, when under the lash of honest an - . „
int olerant ? When an actor is told he is pe
in a part, he not only invariably commences,
a sense of small conceit and over-connacm
slum it, but generally begins to cnee* .
management, and whisper, darkly, about a w
As a matter of fact—not even excepting tne c „
of the Comedie Francaise, no actor is 5
And yet he says that — Oh, yes; decidedly
the doctor isn’t well.
Circulars and pamphlets explanatory
curative properties have been translated 1( j
languages, and there ia no portion ot t iin d
where Wolfe’s Schnapps is not know
appreciated.
Sydney Mud.
The rain is falling drearily,
From leaden, lowering clouds,
And Avalking homeward, wearily,
I watch the passing croxvds—
The busy, never-ceasing rush
Of people through the street,
Besmattered Avith the mud and slush
That gathers at their feet.
The rain continues steadily,
Quite pitiless its force;
And as 1 hasten readily
Upon my homexvard course,
Methinks, amid the motley crush,
Hoxv many do I meet,
But little better than the slush
They tread beneath their feet.
Those rascals eyeing greedily
A nexv-chura’s massive chain,
Have finished “ time,” and speedily
Are hard at “ work ” again.
A group of idle “ galloAvs cheats,”
To laxv and order foes—
The foulest filth that soils the streets
Is dean to them, God knows!
That drunken loafer, reellngly
Reclining ’gainst the lamp,
Is mocking, most unfeeling,
A poor half-witted tramp;
And flinging forth his foolish jest
At one who does no hurt—
I deem that fellow, at his best,
As little more than dirt.
That girl, attired flauntlngly,
With face that once was fair—
The words she utters, tauntingly.
Are taint upon the air;
A wretched, idle, reckless curse,
Her wanton lips repeat;
Oh, surely such as she aro worse
Than filth about the street.
Men loathe the mud exceedingly
Whenever rain comes down,
But yet pass by, unheedingly
The human dirt of town;
No matter how much filth and slush
Be swept into the drains;
We need, I think, dead Hogarth’s brush
To show how much remains.
' ‘THE “CONNOISSEUR” ORGAN,
Manufactured by the Smith Organ Co. for Champion and Bruce, Sydney.
HIS MELANCHOLY END.
O listen, listen, x’eaders dear.
Unto a woeful song
Of a young man of this good town
Who recently went wrong.
He was of decent lineage,
And very goodly xvealthl
His pious father had acquired
By holiness and stealth.
So, you can undex-stand at once
The hex’o of this tale
Was brought up in the fear of God—
The fear of God, and gaol. a
He never di’ank—he never swore—
He never told a lie:
He was so pious, all his friends
Prayed Heav’n that he xvould die.
But die he did not—or this tale
We xvould not have to tell;
He lived in grace till on him, lo
The sporting madness fell. ’
And then his sense forsook him Quito—
In fact, he lost his head; le ~
His parents wished he’d ne’er been .
Or that he’d soon drop dead. 0rn ’
For he began to dress in style
Most gorgeous to behold:
Upon his xvaistcoat gleamed a chain
Of cheap and bogus gold;
And rings upon his fingers (in
The very woi’St of taste)
He wore—in fact, he glittered with
A leprosy of paste.
And brazenly he took his stand
Upon the street-coxmer;
Whenever ladies wished to pass,
You bet he didn’t stir.
He lost his manners, lost his coin,
And fell to depths beneath
His “ set,” but still he learnt one thing—
To spit between his teeth.
His talk was all of racing, noxv,
And “laying off the odds”—
A weary sort of slang, that is
Not known of men or gods.
He thmxght horse, dreamt horse, spoke horse
Read horse in all he saw,
Until, at last, he grew horse by
Some metamorphic law.
His knees fell inward, till at last
They turned the other way;
He saw this, yet he could not sigh—
For he could only neigh.
His ears grew long, a coat of hair
Upon him soon did grow—
We can’t say if he had a tail,
Because xve do not know.
Exit on the corner still he stands
A-neighing out the odds—
A melancholy warning, and
A sight for men and gods.


Wbt season; l&a
R; Gdldsbrough & Co.
M i:
(LIMITED),
i»» *
In -which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency and Banking Corporation (Limited),
and R. Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
Capital.
£3,000,000.
BEG to notify the Woolgrowers of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
Liberal Cash Advances, on favourable terms, on
the ensuing clip of Wool, and on Station securities.
They have also much pleasure in announcing that
their NEW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
will be ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
Auction Sales of which will be held every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
remain under the control of an efficient staff of
experts, who will take charge of and Sell to the
Best Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company’s care. The Sales of Fat Stock (at
Homebush), Station and Freehold Properties,
Grain, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and Generr
Station Produce, will be under thesuperindencec
Mr. GEORGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will b
unrivalled in the Southern Hemisphere for exter
and adaptability to the trade, being replete wit
every Modern Improvement for the Efficient Dif
play cf Wool, the sale of which tvlll b conducte
cm the Melbourne system, Large and coraplet
Samples Of each clip will be shown in the wel
lighted SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise th
whole of the Upper floors, and as the bulk will b
easily accessible in the various rooms, which ar
Convenient to each other, the fullest facllliles wil
be available for Inspection, thus ensuring the ut
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to offering
Valuations will be made by several experience
Valuators, and their valuations will be carefull
Computed before the wool is submitted for salt
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro
tected up to the lull market Value. As they con
fine their business strictly to hat of SBLLINC
BROKERS ONLY, the best guarantee is afforde<
that nb patbel Will bb Sold fur less thrift its Worth
Farmers’ Lots rbCelvb Special attention, every b«l
and sabk itl the, clip belrjg shown In tile Samp!
BrtdrtiS. Should owners’ Cxpedftttions hot b
realised in •ydnepj they have the advantage o
trying the _ elbodtnb market before deciding Or
Shipment ti whleh latter case the Coihpgny is pfe
pared tc: .1 like liberal cash advances at lowcs
market . ves, and consign to the English, Conti
nental, or American markets for disposal. The
Charges.o-i Wool offered for sale, but not sold, arc
Only ONE SHILLING PER BALE, which Include!
Receiving, Warehousing, insurance whilst instore
and Deliveilng.
LONDON—198 & 19T LEAtiMllALii STREET.
MBLEOtlltNE-BOtiRKE & WILLtAM STREETS
§¥ftNE¥-4 STitEfrr.
H/RICHT, HEATON ft CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom house
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Goulburn'
Yass
Bowning
Dlnalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Oapertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertire
Western District, N.S.W,
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Co bar
Coonamble
Bourke
Morpeth
Q unnedah
h arrabri
Waigett
Northern District, N.S.W,;
Brewarrlna
Tamworth
Ur alia
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Yeulba
Cambooya
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Townsville
Gbartora Towers
Central Line:
Capelia
Comet
Northern Line:
Ravenswood Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. MCULLOCH ft OO., LIMITED.
tST* Agencies in all parte of the world.
UMBRlfLLAS
Recovered.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
9uted. — - - - -
K
BAlS
fl iAND
Ingham’s
Queensland Cure J
I
“uo*'" ro f
iiMU all LnLo Arr LL I lUiMh. SK>1
r tiSas iri'oHAM
saw
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &e.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
121 LIVERPOOL STREET
and at
301 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
Plugs,
Estimates given for all kinds of Ironwork, Ac.
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
K
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
> 1 . „ Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne
F your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
A *UEE& ,y ou with the “PAINLESS CORN
RELIEVER, write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor. who will forward a bottle to all parts of
Australasia, Post Free, for 3s. 6d. 1
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gym pie.
BLEND
[trade
[mark]
A
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
Dining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
p. kirbtT
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
"C7 in. d.ert silkier,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.-Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years: also
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHNBANKS.
IMPORTER OF
Eicyck ai Tricycles -
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Foster’s Quale Brand.
Ate# Sduih Mates Rasing Com
pftnjf’S CbnSultdhdns
m
Melbourne gup.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£25,000.
1st Horse £4000
2nd 2000
3rd ,, 1000
For 149 Horses...
I Starters ...
Non-Starters
£1000
2000
117 Prize Gift«.-366 Prizes in all.
£10,000
8 Prize Gifts, at 135 £1000
2« „ at £100 3000
40 .. at 50 3000
40 „ at 35 1000
£15,000
1 Prize Gift .. £4000
2 ..2000
3 .. 1000
3 .. at £500 1000
4 at 350 1000
117 Prize Gifts ...
Letter only, addressed to the Secre-
taiy, No. 3 M- entworth Gourt, Elizabeth-street;
or Box 355, G.P.O., Sydney.
*W^si&sgs^ssissr“ 4 ln ih *
of T Sb°«SSSie?,r' 1 ' 1 PU “ beforo ‘
w. BUBNHARD.
|~ i A MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS.
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
10,000 shares at 10b. each..
1st Horse ..
2nd „
3rd „
Starters ..
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
£5000
£3000
im
600
300
300
1000
£6000
Prospectus on application.
n,ir e - Ma *eotte Company thanks the public f
tr f 0p B ort in previous consultations, and hop
grumiTo. UaDCe ° f their * mtrona « e f or this pr
Application, by letter only.
, O- 3 Tattersall's Chambers, Huntt
street, and Box 72B, P.O., Sydney, unw
Tattersall's Monster Consultations.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
Fi "L«°« n!e l'iS? l0 V 8e f onii Horse. £1000; Third
Clone 3 .’ ?J a I t0r8 ' l0 00; Non-starters,
£1000 , to bo divided amoog'st them*
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 BACH.
First Horse, £1(W0 j Second Horse, £300 : Third
,^ tartor8 ’ i Non-starters, £350;
to bo divided amongst them.
Persons making application are reunested tn
register their Letters to ensure safe delivery of
reply aUC * 0nc ose addressed stamped envelope for
Address—"TATTERSALL," care of G. Adams
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney. ’
a
J) 1 A M o N D.*
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS;
First Horse..
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide
Non-starters
£3000
3000
1000
1000
500
3 Prizes of £350 each, £500
5 Prizes of 100 ,. 600
10 Prizes of 50 „ 600
20 Prizes of 25 „ 600
50 Prizes of 10 „ 500
£10,000
Application by letter^on enclosing stamp, to
Care of O. Schieblloh,
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Littl© Collins-street East, Molboumo
(Near Colonial Bank.) ’
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event. worses
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application
letters containing cash should be registered
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
, Diamond, in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful raclmr
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000 For 2s. Od. £3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for I.IALF-A-CROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ’> SWEEP on the MKT
BOURNE CUP, 1883f Eir
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offerim
public never before r "
Company a... *. iuo,,wm,iuni uirectors
CAPITAL: £10,000, divided 'into 80,000Sh££i of
3s. od. each,
as'fSlowIfL 1000 PrlzeB Euanioteed, and distributed
1st horse ..
2nd horse ..
8rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do.
20 Prizes at £50
£3000
1000
500
500
350
1000
10 Prizes at £25
100 do.
300 do.
750 do.
.£1000
10 .. 1000
5 .. 1000
1 .. 750
Total..
We shall send 9 tickets for a pound
..£10,000
than 2 sent to any single address. O orde?
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent* add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
com be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership. extra
The drawing will take place on the 1st November
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders ImmMlatelv
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write a. «har„.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
erSPy Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GEORGE 8T., SYDNEY
i//M I
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
le BEST ALE aud STOUT in the Market
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
V T irgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS
14 and 16 Spring Street
Sydney,
Have aiw ya In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
GLASS. CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA RE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SOR1N and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T. G A YEN’S
Schnapps and Genera.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STHKtf'l
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
T 0^ 0 ?^ 01 ?, 1511118 of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
„ W - £ CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
a nd LOR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street
HUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 George St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 0d.
Superior Ladies’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
ELBOURNE CUP, 1888
LEVIATHAN “ADAMA8TOR ” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
634 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7250 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution;
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)..
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divide).
Non-starters (do)
£3000
1500
750
800
1200
*** First Star £2000 V
*** Second Star 1000 ♦**
♦** Third Star 500 **♦
12 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £25
cash, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if casMf to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed —
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G P O
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, comer Pitt anci
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.
Will positively close on 30th October.


Some accounts from Fiji give anything
but an encouraging description of the state of
affairs there. The natives are said to he merely
slaves under a quasi-benevolent despotism which
is not always benevolent. The Native Taxation
Scheme deprives them of the right of selling their
labour to tho highest bidder, and by virtue of
that system they become merely the chattels
of tho Crown. Tho white population of small
planters, on the other hand, are little better off.
Their lands are nractlcilly unsaleable. “Three-
fourths of them,” writes a corn spondent, “would
gladly sell for half (or less) the real value of their
lands, and escape from a country cursed with an
experimental form of Crown Government, to live
oven In poverty under the tree institutions of the
Australian Colonies.” Fiji is not the Fiji often
years ago. The change is chiefly owing to the ob-
noxious, arbitrary, and experimental form of
Government, framed and carried out by a few
men whoso only object is to make Fiji stand well
with Exeter Hall fanatics. Tho Governor isa feeb e
man, who is simply used ns a gun for these people
to fire bullets, of their own moulding, out of. J he
principal portion of the officials are a clique, con-
nected by intermarriages. Scores of capitalists
have visited Fiji during the last four years, fully
prepared to invest, chiefly in sugar culture. Hut
on acquiring information respecting tho stylo in
which the system of Government presses upon
planters, they have cleared off. The Fiji planter
of tho old school is disappearing, as labour, local or
imported, is not available to men of moderate
means. Ordinance after ordinance is trained and
hurled at the planters ; and minute after minute
is promulgated breathing- contempt or insult upon
anybody of men who daro to question the wisdom
of H is ( linmpotonce tho Governor. Phis is a plain
d'gest of a private letter received by a bydney re-
sidents and not originally intended for puolication.
Theprospectus of anew
Western Journal has ap-
peared. The paper is to work
up the i laims to a church and
a gaol of the seventeen per-
sons residing on tho bound-
ary between N.S. Wales and
S. Australia. Tho Uourke
Watchman says, with hlight-
jng mordancy, “If tho con-
ductors can keep clear of
libel on the one hand and
contempt of court on the
other, donbtlessaprosperous
future is before them.” Poor
conductors ! We know
who'll occupy tho first cell
In the contemplated quod ...
Shiels bus introduced
to the Victorian Parliament a
Matrimonial -tatuto Amend-
ment Hill, and there is a
flutter In tho dove-cotes.
Among other nice things
Shiels proposes to do for the
ladies, is to put them on a par
with their lords under such
conditions of naughtinesses
ns the present Duke of Mal-
borough perpetrated tho
other day. In fact, he pro-
poses a re'onn that wel ,
we won’t give names—would
doubtless term a “stupid
thing.” Heproposesin short,
that if the man bo caught in
adultery, the woman may
have similar and equal right
to dhorce to that which
would be enjoyed by the
man should »he have been
the frail one. Well, this is
equitable. It’s a good moral
thing, mind you: lit for any
code of commandments. But,
unfortunately, morals and
expediency are two prin-
ciples that will not always
work In harness together.
One jibs while the other
pulls. Of course It is a cruel
injustice that the crime of
the man should not expose
him to tho censure which
attaches to the woman If she
be the offender. But, facta
are stubborn things, and In
this case what is sauce for tho
gander is not sauce for tho
goose. Tho reason for the
legal privilege now allowed
tho man and denied the
woman is this: That while a
wicked and designing woman
may imr r,,| e upon her hus-
band children not of his
paternity, and compel him
to support them, it is Im-
possible for the husband in a
a similar way to deceive his
wife. It is needless to point
out that a social revolution,
such as would arise from
placing power In the hands
of the wife, would be of the
intense order. It would give
work to lawyers, and pay
the Evening News first-rate.
But, socially, there would be
a pretty general smash-up.
Wo haven’t come to the Ar-
cadian—or rather tho Uto-
pian—age yet awhile; and it
doesn’t seem to us that wo
are nearer perfection than
when old Diogenes plucked
a rooster, and taking it into
the school exclaimed “ Be-
hold Plato’s man.” How-
ever, this is running up tho
alley. To get back to the
broad thoroughfare, we
come to this, tnat what are
often called woman’s rights
involve social wrongs, and
that until we pull down the
whole fabric, we must shore
it up with the best timbers
at our command. Enough
'said.
Another hoary falsehood has been turned ,
inside out. It is opium-smoking 1 this time. Into
the “Confessions of an English Opium-eater” De
Quincy managed to wedge as many lies as Fouclri
could put in a despatch. And, ever since the
essayist’s time, the terrible effects of smoking or
eating the drug have supplied enough material for
a booK-case of sermons. But the annual report of
Dr. Ayres, a gaol surgeon in China, completely
mashes this view. The Chinese smokers, who have
the doctor’s hospitality forced upon them, suffer
very little, if at all, from the abstinence to which
they are liable through the insignificant error of
mistaking their neighbour’s fowl-house for their
own. Tho suffering is much less acute than that
of the smoker deprived of his tobacco. Give the
opium man twenty-five per cent of morphia in his
pipe and he becomes stolid and contented. Ex-
tract all the morphia and he is more stolid and
contented. Deprive him of his pipe altogether,
and he takes the deprivation as calmly as a
man who hears that his principal creditor fell out
of a balloon. Thus we find that the doctor's ex-
perience makes “mops and brooms ” of all hither-
to received notions concerning opium-smoking.
One poor Oriental came under nis notice who had
smoked for thirty years. His daily consumption
was 3i drains, but he never appeared to mind the
loss. So much for opium-smoking. < >f opium-
eating, the doctor has a different tale to tell. “ i
have eaten opium till I could consume half an
ounce daily, and 1 can understand the fascination
of that habit and fuliy appreciate tho difficulty of
leaving it off.” So he says. Our experience is pre-
cisely similar, although we never got to half a
ounce, or even half a scruple, and receive with
academic faith the statement that anyone could
consume four drams of crude opium diurually
and live. Wo intend astonishing tho world some
day with a record of our delights and sufferings in
this line. At present we will content ourselves
with saying that, in that innocent-looking veget-
able, the poppy, there 18 stored up more enjoy-
ment, beatitude,- inspiration, indolence, and all-
round cussedness —take ils it Way, somebody, before
we say too much —than in all the alcohol that was
ever distilled, all the nicotine ever evaporated.
But—we didn’t proceed too far with the experi-
ment—there is a terrible penalty.
Thadeus O’Kane is again being sued for
libel—by Mr. James Hutton, of Charters Towers,
for some comments on a series of Chinese letters
lately appearing In the Towers Herald. “ Mr.
Hutton, writes Thadeus, "might have denied the
authorship of those letters, and given us a chance
to take back what we said. He appears to be in a
great hurry to disown his connection with these
letters. We had good grounds for supposing he
was the writer; if he was not wo have made a mis-
take, and are willing to express our regret if Mr.
Hutton will come out with a denial that he is the
author.”
There is a tradition amongst the natives of
the island of Santa Cruz (where the vestiges of a
fort, some brass cannon, anchors, pieces of tin
tubing, etc., relies of the La Perouse expedition,
have recently been found) that the unfortunate
survivors of that party had partly built a new ship
wherein to return to la belle France, but that all
died from natural causes before Its completion.
Even if this tradition bo founded on fact, the
doubt expressed in Praed’s lines—
“ Affection knows not whether o'er thy grave
The ocean murmur or tho willow wave ”—
still remains unsatisfied. Prance should make a
more searching investigation at tho spot. Who
knows but what some record may yet he found
there that shall solve the mystery enshrouding the
fate of La Perouse ?
Treasurer Dibbs hopes that the example
set by tho Stuart Administration of dining-out
with the people will be followed by every Govern-
ment to come. Pope says :—
“ The shortest way to men’s hearts, I find,
Lies through their bellies, or I mistake man-
kind.”
Sir Henry Thompson, on “ Fish as food,”
says in fish there is a combination of all the ele-
ments that tho human body requires under almost
every phase of life, more especially to those who
followed sedentary employment. To women, who
generally lead a less active life than men, fish was
an invaluable article of diet. The popular notion
that fish increased the brain power was a complete
fallacy. Tho only action fish had on tho brain was
to put a man’s body into proper relations with the
work he had to do.
Mr. Shiels’ Matrimonial Statute Amend-
ment Bill, just introduced into the Victorian Par-
liament, proposes to make ante-nuptial agree-
ments as to the guardianship of children binding
In happiness two lovers sat,
One evening side by side:
For she had named the happy day.
When he might call her bride.
In sweet detail, their future life
Those blissful lovers planned,
Where they should live, when kindly fate
Joined them in Hymen’s band.
“ You've read,” said he. “ young Shiels’s bill ”—
’Twixt kisses as entr'acte—
“ Which as to children binding makes
An ante-nuptial contract; ”
“ Who’ll keep the kids, supposing we
Should prove a pair ill-matched ?
The girl replied, “ I never count
My chickens before they’re hatched.’
Melbourne Punch.
Eccentricity and genius often go together.
That is a well-known platitude. Concerning the
vagaries of the acute Judge Skinner, lately retired
from tho Victorian Bench, some very amusing
stories are related. During the hearing of a shoep-
Steallng case at one of tho courts In the Judge s
district, a witness, having answered the usual
questions as to his name ana oecupation, in course
of evidence went on to say of another person
that he "shore sheep.” “What!” queried His
Honor. “ He used to shore sheep,” replied the
witness. His Honor took a note of tho important
fact. The Judge summed up In his usual off-hand
manner, and, having Indulged tho jury with a very
explicit rdsum>i of tho evidence u p to a certain point,
continued: “ Now, gentlemen of the juiy» we come
to a Mr. Shore— a Mr. Eustace Shore. It does not
appear from the evidence what connection Mr.
Stiore had with the case at all. He does not appear
in my notes before, and I am rather at a loss to
know—but the fact remains that Mr. Eustace
Shore saw the shaep ” Here His Honor was
Interrupted by the immoderate and uncontrollable
laughter of all the legal gentlemen in the court.
The Judge frowned and wished to know, “ was
there anything very funny in what he had said I ’
Even when the mistake was explained, the learned
Judge, “ being convinced against hi- will," was in-
clined to be “of the same opinion still,” and did not
seem prepared to doubt thi jcorroctness of his notes,
in the accuracy of which on all occasions he had a
most extraordinary faith. In fact, It was his habit
to pity the deplorable Ignorance of anyone who
had the temerity to express his doubts of their
correctness. On one occasion, a witness, in reply
to the Judge, stated that his name was “ Chatti-
combe.” Later on in the trial one of the legal
gentlemen engaged In tho case spoke of the wit-
ness “ Chatticombe.” “Challlooinbe,” corrected
His Honor. “ Mr. Chatticombe,” replied the
lawyer. The matter was then argued for some
time, when His Honor decided to recall the witness
whose name was in question. The following col-
loquy ensued, His Honor: “What is your name,
witness?” “Chatticombe,” your Honor,” replied
ho of the questioned cognomen. “ What do you
mean, sir? Your name is Challicombe, sir ! “I
beg your Honor’s pardon, but—— ” “ Silence, sirl
Your name is Challicombe ; I have it so in my
notes, sir. Why don’t you pronounce your own
name properly, sir ! You may stand down.
It was in Sleepy Hollow, N.Z. He was a
religious grocer and storekeeper, but neither re-
ligion nor storekeeping availed. A bailiff was put
in possession, and was induced to attend morning
and evening services with the family. He was
struck with the poor old debtor s devoutness, and
cursed the fate that made him a bailiff. At last
the morning came when, failing a settlement, the
stock had to be sold. Tho broken tradesman's two
sons went out early, unable to witness their
father’s sorrow. For the last time the bailiff at-
tended family devotions. This morning they were
exceptionally long, and the recording angel had to
hire a celestial furniture van to carry aloft the
petitions for forbearance and mercy drafted in
favour of the merciless creditor. Even the poor
bailiff—passive instrument of legal inexorableness
—came in for his share of forgiveness: and, after
half an hour’s supplication, rose from his knees
with a firmer faith in humanity, and an appetite
like a Hottentot’s. After breakfast, he strolled
down to see what sort of a display the goods made.
They didn’t make much, as, during their parents
devotions, the boys had been round with a lorry.
Not since the first boat-load of Captain Cook s tars
went ashore to look for water was such language
heard in Nelson as that bailiff used when he found
that he’d been keeping guard over a battered kero-
I sene-tin and a set of worn-out shoe-brushes.
“ Eulbtftaff oneself” atTarampa (Q.) Some
fifty fellow* were at it there in August Itwt, with
the result that, tho subsequent proceedings Inter-
ested Carl Greinkp, one of the crowd, no more,
when far gone in P»«r, Carl went for one Wilhelm
Fochner with a bit OS a stick, and knocked hint
down. Wilhelm retaliated by striking
kopf with a water-bottle, thereby felling Wmto
thoground. Compassionatingbis-vletim SPO®^ 5 *™;
WffK went to the go«
poured it over Karl’s head, A'WSt Crtamp
who was “ screwed as an owl, 881
trate wretch, knife in hand,.
hiccups thar. he meant to skin bim—ter £bbt Car J
was dead. When his wife came to coax hirt»Hbtne •
she found him lying beside the l8m -
face, with his mouth full of blood, and he Jo Ajt
spoke again. Wilhelm and August are now a
ing trial, charged with Carl’s murder.
The Rev John Osborne’s criticism of J-uige
Higinbotbam’s address on '“ I® 1 .® 00 ,® h®
Churches” was a very weak affair, indeed. He
evidently had not studied the addresshe sought
to criticise; or if he had, had not understood it.
His own views about creeds are ve-y peculiar.
He owns that they have done m y°b harm, yet
deems them essential. He admits also that a con-
siderable number of the laity are subject to a pro-
found mistrust of cburch systems of religion, yet
is doubtful whether the majority havethis tecling.
In a word, he admits Higmbotham a main con-
tentions to be in a measure correct. And yet. be-
cause he deems them in a measure wrong, he de-
nounces them as deserving of the anathema ox tne
religious man, although with absurd inconsistency
he argues that tho theological creeds should not be
abolished because of the presence of some specu-
latlve erro"" ’ some pratlcal defects I Mr. Os-
borne has two scr:s of measure —one an accom-
modatingbuoudi * ur his own grain, another of quite
another kind for his opponent s.
We observe with plea-
sure an announcement that
H.K. Highness the Duke of
Connaught was not to as-
sume command of the troops
at Meerut until the cool
season. This is prudent. Tho
heat might otherwise haves
melted the butter In H.K.
Highness’ mouth. Primes*
are not expected to expose*
themselves like mere com-
mon soldiers to warm en-
gagements. We presume'
that if the troops under tho
Duke’s command ever get
into a warm engagement In
India, H.K. Highness will
promptly place himself at
the head of the third lino of
reserve —at British Colum-
bia.
Sydney Gibbons, man
of science and father of
twins, Melbourne, has
been tolling Melbourne
mothers how to raise babies.
Of course, in this matter, it
is necessary to follow Mrs.
Glass's injunction, “first
cateh vour hare.” But as
this is by no means difficult
to accomplish, and Is a sport
into which ladies enter with
pretty general ardour and
enthusiasm, this preliminary
step may be supposed to have
been almost universally tak-
en by Sydney Gibbons’ fair
audience. The newspapers
sav that the room was well
filled, the majority present
being young women. Touch-
ing, this. The maternal in-
stinct, and so on. “Hope,
thou nurse of young desire,
exclaims Isaac Bickerstaff ;
and no doubt hppe was
knocking about within tho
gentle bosoms of the young
women who formed the
majority of Mr. Sydney Gib-
bons’ audience. Sydney told
’em all about babies; how-
one in four died —this to the
great apparent satisfaction
of a Malthusian female 9f
rigid countenance, and lu
spectacles, who was evi-
dently long past any interest
in tho baby question. He
told ’em—the darlings—that
their kids, present or to
come, should be well fed,
well washed, well aired, and
well — spanked; — n o, on
second thoughts, it was the
arid female in spectacles who
suggested this, and was im-
mediately hissed down by tne
audience, the fair members
of which called her “old
cat,” “old spitfire,” and,
worse than all, “ old maid ! ”
And they passed a vote of
thanks for Sydney, who
bowed, and smiled, and
wished ’em all success, and
many of ’em. And that
night these young mothers,
actual or prospective, one
and all, had visions of In-
fantile disorders, their mode
of prevention or cure, and
all and every topic concern-
ing the matter which Sydney
had touched upon. All but
the Malthusian female in tho
spectacles, whose slumbers
were lightened by the recol-
lection that the lecturer had
told his audience that one in
four Infants died, and that of
these 30 to 50 per cent, passed
to celestial bottle-holders
under five years of age. So,
you see, Sydney satisfied
everybody.
Henry Irving's mad because he wasn’t
knighted by tho Prince of Wales at the fourth of
July banquet given in his honour. See what it is
to have a theatrical mind. The Evening News
tells us that “ it is said Irving would have been
knighted but the Queen stood in the way, because
she did not know whether Mrs. Irving was a lady.
It seems that Mrs. Irving is a plain woman, by
whom the actor has had several children, and with
whom he does not live, but gives his attentions to
an actress prominent in his theatre.” Bring us the
lyre. Twang!— .
The Queen had made this gallant swain a knight,
But that she felt exceedingly afraid he
Was married to a woman hardly quite
A lady1
A mere plain woman, by whom this loud gun
(The ways of greatness are indeed bewildering)
Hag condescended to—of course, in fun—
Have children I
A woman to whoso loving side he earns,
And took her forhlsmuch-improved-by-God-rib,
And gave to her the soft, euphonious name
Of Brodrlbb!
A woman by whose side he stood, and vowed
To be her truest, kindest benefactor;
When at the altar, at his best he “ shewed ”
An actor!
Victoria had, it seems, no fear at all—
At least, no fear too vigorous or vital—
That shame through Henry's capers could bofal
The title 1
And how can Vic. be sure, we rise to ask.
In Heaven’s name, or in the name of Hades,
That all who under “ Lady’s ” title masque
Are ladies ?
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 31 Fittest., Sydney, N.8.W.
Mrs. Langtry.
