

ANTHONY HORDERN
AND SONS
P
Haymarket,
\
r
iul\U”
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, Palace Emporium, Haymarket (only)
W‘fv our Departments is now replete with Spring and Summer Goods in all
ithin the last six weeks we have opened over 1000 cases of Goods, ex P. & O., Orient, and
our Departments : —
the newest fashions, styles, and novelties,
other steamers. The following is a list of
Manchester Goods
lurnishing
Dresses
Silks
prints
Civets
Mourning Goods
Portmanteaus
Tweeds
Carpets
Electroplate
Hollow-ware
Music
School Requisites
Recollect, we have only one address, and have no connection with any other firm of a similar surname.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS.
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, only.
•; .TrcrarBc


THE
Q-rea/t
CENTRE
op top
s*s
V-
a
#
fas
op
JOHN HUNT
V
S
To my Patrons and the General Piblic. —It is now a little more than five years since the City Boot Palace was first one >1
the success that has attended my endeavours to give satisfaction to my patrons has gradually increased year by year, until ' f
now reached a point far beyond my most sanguine expectations ; and I would avail myself of the opportunity to return tha v f
past favours, assuring you that no effort will be spared on my part to maintain that prestige which the City Boot Palace h as S
gained. I have determined to celebrate the 5th Anniversary of the opening of the above establishment by holding my FlpjJ
ANNUAL SALE, on a scale of unparalleled magnitude, at which the goods will be marked in plain figures at such prices that
necessarily effect a speedy clearance. Doubtless there are many who have pleasant reminiscences of the great bargains obtainTl
■%. </% wv U u 4- « m /I L rv 1 -» /\tr, 4- \ n n O 1 I i-V n r 4 L /-» f ' -« 4- -i-r IJ 4- T) n 1 n A A I’ /-v m 4- -ao /■» 4- ( A. w v. a X n X1 . /T 1 A \ 1 k
my first and subsequent Annual Sales, at the City Boot Palace, 454 Gecrge-street (opposite the Markets), and I can assure them h
the same, if not greater, facilities will be afforded them and the general public for obtaining Ladies’, Gentlemen’s, and
Pirst-class Boots and Shoes, at less than they could be purchased for from the manufacturers.
Gent’s Goloshed E.S. Boots, English make ... from 6s. 6d.
Gent’s Plain E.S. Boots, superior make ... ... „ 6s. 9d.
Ladies’Morocco Evening Shoes ... ... ... „ 3s. 3d.
• 1 J • T 1 • 1 T» II 1 -r
Ladies’ Patent Dress Shoes
Ladies’ Levant E.S. Boots ..
Ladies’ Kid E.S. Boots
Choice selection of Ladies’ Button and Lace Boots. Children’ Boots and Shoes, in endless variety.
Bememher the 5th Annual Sals, at John Hunter’s City Boot Palace, 454 George-street, is not for the purpose of clearin'* out
old stock, the immense patronage accorded hy the general public preventing the accumulation of stock of any kind. Everythin'* i>
fresh, seasonable, and good. Trusting you will favour me with a visit to my 5th Annual Sale, I remain, Ladies and Gentlemm
yours obediently, JOHN HUNTER.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.’S
Bon Accord Brass, Copper, Lead & Iron Works,
8 and 9 MAGQUAHiE PLACE,
PLUMBERS AND GAS FITTERS, ART METAL WORKERS, &0. MANUFACTURERS AND
IMPORTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW SASH CARS, DIVING GEAR, Ac.
3F». R. LARKIN,
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
llog-s to announce to his town and country friends, that he lias just completed
extensive additions to Uis
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Post Brands of Wines and Spirits, iro- if
selected by the proprietor during- hi* recent visit to liomp«. Me can therefore vom.de itb rwniif. ui
the nnality, and by eharu inv a re sonaou* orice. .» , cr me billowing list, hopes to i„e, h it «iwn->il t -•
patronage, which has hithcro. lium so liberally extended to him.
\
PUMPS, IIP.I.MKTS.
DURSSRS, HOSR,
SPItlNOS, 0URUNSRT8,
STOCK (NOS, BOOTS
(with lead sok«l,
KKAATIUNG CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, &c.
THE MAHSI1 AI.T<
WINTlOW FASTEN Elt.
THE CHEAPEST
ami
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTRNKlt MADE.
Prevent* all rattling, and
liustens the window at
any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &c.,
required.
■ I
PALE DEAND V. }Vr 10>rti<■.
s a ;
Bilbey’s very old Brandy, pold ton ho
Ceimessy s V.O. ((very old;bottled by P. R. I,. 0 u
Hwin»v’s:i Sim- (♦*•') t: o
Du bbis mid Co.'s Old ♦** Pale .. .. .. 5 0 i
KineOM Pale, bottled by P. II. L. .. .,50
Hennessy’s Battle Axe i*) 5 0
Mart ell's Blue Label (*) 5 0
Flasks 2s 3d and 2 0
Hali-tlnsks ; 10
Hennessy’s Draugrht Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial (|imrt Os and 5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hpnnessy’s 3 Star (***) 0 6
Kartell's Very Old *♦* •.. ..0 0
Kartell's Oftf 5s and 4 0
Kartell's Dark, per Imperial qua ft ..50
Flasks ".. ’ .. 2p0dand 2 2
LOWNDE’S W. T, RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good
Better ..
Still Better
Quality—No, 1, per Imperial quart 6s and
No. 2,
No, 8, „ „
No. 4, „ „ 3s and
Flasks Is 9d and
2 0
2 0
3 0
5 0
4 6
4 0
3 0
2 6
JAKATCA RUM.
PACE.
Very Finest „ ..4 0
Red Heart.. 4 6
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart .. .. 5 0
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s6dand 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
rg-undy quarts 2 *6
g-ah, red .. .. '.. .. „ 2 6
„ 2 6
.. „ 2 6
2 6
.. .. pints 1 6
Muscat
„ . Reisling-
Fallon’s Shiraz ..
POUT WINK.
IVi I! !|V.
40-year Old, Oilher's
( H<-orated hour Diamond
Ouality- No. 1 a ery superior old)
N o. gmpe
No. ***♦ „
No. *** „
No. ♦♦
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry) ...
Fine Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddlo’s Ginger Wine
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s ***
Old Dublin Whisky (**♦) bottled by Burke
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky ...
Jameson's
.. 4 i
.. 4
.. 41
.. It
.. 11
« It
- It
„ :t
I “
4i
:•
- n
... •'
I*
- o
... H
n
)i
- H
- II
11
„ H
.." - * •
3s (id and j{
Dunville’s - 5 (
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart
2s 6d aod 11
Jameson’s
Flasks
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenllvet ...
Glenlivet Whisk
Flasks
_ it
'll
U»ni 11
;; : i»
"! "! 3s‘0d and * j
per imperial : 3
GIN. ,,
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva •• , - l
Celebrated Key Brand, very large ; I
bottle containing more than a quart j ; i
Flasks Key Gin
Celebrated CHAMPION ROLLER SKATES, and every other make, always on hand. Wheels, Soles,
Bodies, and all Accessories. Manufacturers of the PORTABLE TALLOW GAS AI I ARA1 U8.
Kanpes Fitted with Hot and Cold Water, Circulating Apparatus and Boilers.
MEDALLISTS AND SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS. ESTABLISHED ia5T).
MEINRATH AND CO.,
SHIETMAKEKS,
96 KIM STREET, SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
BOYD.
- *. . ’ ;"K
TIio natrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
A the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals. Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
■are employed, Mid all negatives (16,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserred, from wfiioh copies may be bad on application by sending name and address,
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, a l 1 JTllL aM
allowed for. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered ai
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.-On receipt of £1. the fCJ '
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best jS*
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers In every instance. To prevent delay, please
Orders payable at the Hay market Post Olllcc,
Kindly Note the Address-’
P. D. LAPKIN, Wholesale & Detail Wine & Sfiin'i Merchant & l^ ;e
George and Gipps Sts,, Haymarket, Sydney


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 23.—New Series
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1883.
Price—6d.
the CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN ”
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
A XY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
y g w-THAT of one very old estab-
lished paper, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETIN’S ” BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER ‘JO, 1883.
An Eminent Fossil.
Fob a full week, readers of the Evening
News were entertained by editorial an-
nouncements of a remarkable letter treating
of the subject so largely engaging public
attention— the law of libel. This promised
lucubration was dangled before the expecta-
tions of a tantalized community. It was to
be the deliverance of a mysterious, and—
judging by the manner in which the editor
of the News from time to time grovelled in
bia own columns, and, figuratively, licked
big promised contributor’s boots—a very
distinguished person, indeed. After at least
one aggravating delay, as though the dis-
tinguished writer had been coy, or his
bumble admirer, the editor, desired to
work up his readers into a proper pitch of
respectful eagerness, the lucubration thus
heralded by the preliminary genuflexions
and copious abasements of the News, made
its appearance. And a most imposing ap-
pearance it made. Pompously dedicated, in
Latin, to Legislators, by the author, and
allotted the dignity of leaded lines and the
top of a column by the awe-stricken editor,
its appearance in type quite maintained the
awful promise of the preliminary announce-
ments. The writhingly respectful announce-
ments by the dazzled editor had already
impressed the public with a proper under-
standing that it was by an exertion of
uncommon condescension that they were
favoured at all with a perusal of the
opinions of so distinguished a person
as the writer, and the impression of humble
obligation thus created was confirmed when
it appeared that the superior creature who
penned the letter had not deigned to address
common people at all—had, in fact, declined
to formally recognise their existence.
• • •
To talk to common people, in common
anguage, was evidently too vulgar an under-
taking for so lofty and important a person
to relish. So he addressed himself to Legis-
lators, in Latin. The entire surroundings of
the letter are surprisingly suggestive of
Mrs. Jaeley’s waxworks. It is easy to con-
ceive the important author addressing him-
*plf to the bowing editor of the News, when
teadering the contribution in the language of
ihe immortal Mrs. Jarley, “It’snot a com-
mon offer, bear in mind. It’s Jarley’s wax-
works, remember! The duty’s very light
and genteel, the company particular select,
the exhibition takes place in assembly
rooms. There is none of your open-air
wagrancy at Jarley’s, recollect. There is
no tarpaulin and sawdust at Jablev’s,
remember. Every expectation held out in
the hand-bills is realized to the utmost, and
the whole forms an effect of imposing bril-
liancy hitherto unrivalled in this kingdom.”
There is material evidence that the writer
of the letter would have been well content
to have oontimud as he began, and that his
ideal was a letter written altogether
■n a dead language and circulated only
among a privileged caste. He is scorn-
ful about “ uobodies,” and, as it hap-
pens that almost everybody is a “ no-
body.” the author’s contempt for the
community at large is displayed from the
outset. It is but fair, however, to admit
that the News’ “distinguished and emi-
nent” correspondent is free from the vice
of hypocrisy. He nowhere in his letter
pretends to eare a snap of the fingers for the
public. He is at no pains to disguise that he
is superior to common employment, and
holds a brief only in the interests of other
“ eminent and distinguished ” personages.
• • ♦
It is a characteristic trait that the author
takes his stand, from the very outset, “ forty
years ago.” His whole argument is based
on a forty-year-old dictum. He says in
effect, “as it was forty years ago, is
now, and ever shall be, world without
progression. Amen.” He skips thirty-nine
years of advancement and change, jumps
all records during that period, shuts his
eyes to such horrid modern views as the
present Lord Chief Justice of England is
responsible for, and anchors on his venerable
precedent. It is really a pity that the pleader,
with his mind fossilized forty years ago, did
not go a little further back. But a few years
earlier he would have been enabled to dis-
cover a still sharper precedent, of actual
local authority, in favour of his views. In
1830, an Act passed by Governor Darling
and Council was still in force, by virtue of
which banishment was the punishment for a
second offence as a libeller; and what con-
stituted libel was pretty much what the
Crown Law officers chose to define. But,
perhaps, it was sufficient to go back forty
years for principles applicable to the liberty
of public speaking and writing. Some men
take a pride—a foolish one, of course —in
being regarded as ahead of their age.
But when an “em ; neut” authority dis-
plays his delight in being forty years be-
hind his time, the folly of striving after
progressive enlightenment will be appa-
rent. Let's have the ideas of forty years
ago to regulate our affairs, by all means.
Forty years ago, London and Edinburgh
were not connected by railway. Forty years
ago, communication between America and
Europe by steam vessels had not been three
years established. Forty years ago, the news-
paper press scarcely could be said to exist.
But a few years earlier, the stamp-duty was
4d. per copy, and it was not till 1855 that
stamp and paper duties were alike totally
repealed, amidst the mournful predictions of
the men then living who preferred things as
they were forty years ago, and cursed the
prospect of “uobodies” being taught to form
their own opinions instead of humbly echo-
ing the opinions of “eminent” persons
wedded to the ideas of “forty years ago.”
• • ■
Of course, an “ eminent ” person who
writes exclusively “ad Senatores,” and pub-
lishes his exclusive letter in the vulgarest
newspaper available, cannot be expected to
reason. He simply produces the precedent
he has picked out from the rubbish heap of
forty years ago, and flings it in the face of
the crowd of “nobodies ” known as “the
public.” He concedes, indeed — which is
truly condescending on hi« part—that there
has since the date when he petrified a
“growth of general intelligence,” an “ex-
tension of personal liberty,” a fuller recog-
nitiou of “ the neces-ity for freely and fear-
lessly exposing corruption in high places.”
But it appears to him that the Judges alone
have tempered the laws to fit with the limes.
This is, we are happy to say, true, as applied
to Judges in general. But as stiict veracity
was not exacted, even of “eminent” per-
sons, forty years ago, it is not surprising
to discover our author pronouncing that
Judges have never held a distinct imputation
of improper conduct to be justified by any-
thing short of exact and particular proof.
Of course, this is true also, in a forty-years-
ago sense. That is to say, it is inapplicable
to the case really at issue, where imputa-
tions are true in their essentials, but, in
minor matters, incorrect—where, in short,
the libelled is shown to have been a rogue in
the main, and in most particulars as stated,
but not in every minute detail exactly as
indicated. Such a glaringly modern dictum
as that of the present Lord Chief Justioe of
England is, of course, eclipsed in the light
of other days. “ It is not,” declared that
merely modern authority, weakened by
forty additional years of human progression,
“necessary that the justification should
appear to you to be made out, if you tbiuk
that the defendant, or the writer, was in the
reasonable and honest exercise of his voca-
tion as a public writer, even though he was
not fully warranted in drawing the infer-
ences he did as to the conduct of the plain-
tiff, and although it may be that he was not
entirely justified by the absolute truth.”
* * *
This modern dictum would, according to
the ideas of forty years ago, “place all alike
under the tyranny of the Press—ruffianly
and respectable alike.” That is to say, we
are all of such a character that it is possible
for the Press to make good charges that we
are scoundrels in the main, dangerous to
society, and only not scoundrels in one or
two minor particulars alleged amidstproveu
details. And having arrived, by induction,
at this pleasing stage of his progress, the
“ eminent” person points out that all writers
are not—any more than his ideal citizen-
persons of unchallengeable respectability.
There are among them “Bohemians of the
most pronounced type, social pariahs, enter-
taining a bitter hostility to the society from
which they are outcasts.” The tyranny of
an institution which lends its own facilities
for the declaration of charges, such as these,
against itself, cannot surely be of a very
terrible sort. And especially as these charges
are as true to-day as they were “forty years
ago,” and even earlier. The Press has had
much to answer for. Had it been well ad-
vised—by an “eminent” person, for ex-
ample—it would have sternly refused to
give currency to the diatribes and other
little matters which flowed from the pens
of such social pariahs as William Shake-
speare—a poaching fellow, who would
have been hanged had he been strictly
dealt with; Otway —a loafing follow,
who choked guzzling a loaf; Burns— a
drunken radical; Poe— scamp all round ;
Dryden— a pot-house roysterer ; Pope— a
cankered railer; Goldsmith— a person of
immoral habits; Sheridan— a thriftless and
unprincipled adventurer. Yet to some
people, who have imbibed the thought of
the last—although empty—forty years, it
may occur that it was just in their writings
that these men lived the sweetness of their
lives. That apurer morality distilled through
the poems aad prose of Goldsmith than
through the very life of many a so-called
saint; that Pob never wrote a line which
he need have blushed to own ; that Sheri-
dan’s genius shone unobscured and serene
only in print. That—but we forget—these
are reasonings of to-day. Forty years ago
they were not in vogue, and it is our duty
to bow to the wisdom of forty years ago.
THE HON. DR. HOBBS, M.L.C., QUEENSLAND.


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Care for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
BT PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
68. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Bounin
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
©cl.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment In the world.
C. W. ROBERTS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thk host Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNBLISH WHISKY,
8s. per bottle.
VERDBILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HBNNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
c.
W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
The Rates op Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 24b.: half-vear, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d. —In advance.
The Advertising Bates are 5e. per Inch ;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive Insertions,
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Shaplra (or Sapphira), the He-brayist who
issued the “original” Deuteronomy MS. forgery,
is an Anani-ass—John Heath Sobey, one of
Moody and Sankey’s big men, has been summoned
at the Plymouth Police Court, and sentenced to
pay 5«. per week for the support of his illegitimate
child. When taxed at first with having seduced
the girl, he wrote “calling God to witness that he
was innocent," and subscribing himself “ your
loving and saved brother in Christ.” “In a letter
to the complaintant’s sister,” says the paper, “the
defendant advised her to .loin his class, and made
allusions to the ‘ crimson blood which would wash
her whiter than snow.’ ” It is a wonder, though,
the bench characterised his conduct as “ horrible,”
considering his social position was so surrounded
with holiness,
Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”—Ask for Wells’
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Cussing.”
TBtert one will admit that the leaders of Ihe Sal-
vation Army will have done some service if they
•ucceed In putting down, or even considerably re-
pressing, the present stupid habit of blatant swear-
ing. That object Is one of the now planks in their
platform. But how they are to do It, working out
from the Scriptures, Is difficult to comprehend.
Christianised races are all addicted to swearing.
Pagan races possess only a few oaths, and these,
too, of a comparatively mild and inoffensive kind.
The colloquies of the pre-Christian Latin race pos-
sess only about half a dozen expletives that could
be called objectionable, while the early Greek
citizens eschewed oaths on the simple ground of
their being inelegant. But educate a man on the
psalms of David, and how will you restrain him,
when excited, from indulging in imprecations ?
Let him frequent any of these popular gather-
ings, in which divine wrath is denounced in
Scriptural terms against the sinner, and surely
the expressions will take root in his mental being.
In this age of combinations and associations for
the improvement of social morals. It is a wonder
that no one tries to organise a committee to re-
etrain the retailing of the violent language of
Scripture. This, it would appear, is the real foun-
tain from which tho habit of blatant swearing
Springs. There is no desire to blarao tho Scrip-
tures directly for tho wanton excesses of a larri-
kin community, but the constancy with which the
religious teachers give utterance to imprecations,
familiarises the minds, especially of younger
people, with a violence of language, which leads
straightway to the oaths of tho streets. It is
futile to expect that young people will discrimin-
ate accurately between Imprecations employed on
their, own behalf, and imprecations employed in
the service of piety. A very slight degree
of excitement is known to the destructive of
♦bo critical fosulty. The “oonfoundlngs” of David
and the “ aecurseds” and “damnations" of other
parts of the venerable record should not bo poured
so unceasingly Into the ears of children. In the
days of tho Covenanters, and whe i the Bible was
expounded promiscuously by all sorts of people,
the British nation became addicted to such whole-
sale and unbridled blasphemy that tho g—damn
people became n bye-word. And the law was
unable to suppress the habit, although the fine was
twelvq-ponco for every oath. There is no use in
Inflicting pain, and no use in cursing the cursors.
The only chance of euro would soem to be in
insisting that teachers should not use, even in
quotation, the language of imprecation before
their scholars, and in making it understood that a
teacher of religion should not claim to be exempted
from the operation of this rule. There Is no doubt
that this would bo a hard rule for the teachers of
religion to obey ; but then we have all to do hard
things froto time to time for the public service.
Deferred Sentence.
The battle of wits in the Melbourne Presbytery is
so far In favour of those who made it necessary
>hat the Rev. Charles Strong should resign his
charge of the Scots Church and out himself adrift
froip an organization of which he was a disturbing
element. The whole case stands remitted to the
General Assembly, but, by all but a few, the ver-
dict of that Assembly has been read at the table in
Chalraer’s Church. Charles Strong must go, or
Victorian Presbyterianism must stand forth as an
invertebrate sham. What, as a system, has it
sworn to maintain ? What, as a system, is its
claim on the consciences of those whom it
professes to lead to heaven ? Has it not
sworn to maintain certain standards and cove-
nants, and do we not all know how valor-
ously It brandished its shibboleths while shib-
boleths were unquestioned ? When now, then,
tho shibboleths are questioned, and in the
very pulpit of the temple, and when a gawky
public opinion, educated on divorce court pro-
ceedings, and hungry to lay hold of and guzzle the
show-element In every proceeding, tells the solemn
swearers that they should treat the things they
swore to, the things they claimed to have been
divinely Imparted to them, the things to which
they hung on as a means of winning baker’s bread
In this world and broad eternal In the world to
come, In a broad and liberal and vaporous and
meaningless spirit, and that they should practically
admit that, though they swore to them In the
letter, yet that it is cowardly, and ungentlemanly,
and rude, and boorish to hold that they should be
professed when these issues are brought
before the Presbytery where is the alterna-
tive to purging itself, if any semblance of
honesty is to bo retained? A section of the
Covenanters hold “that the swearer is neither
Obliged to the meaning of the prescriber nor to hi 8
own," and old Colonel Overton cracked his fingers
over and declared that a certain man “could in-
vent oaths and covenants, and dispense with them
as he pleased; could swear and forbearasthe wind
turned, like a good presbyter.” If Presbyterianism
In Victoria has not got back to that stage of
langhter and mockery, it has now to go on to the
General Assembly, and despite the stertorous
noises of the illogical heads, fed on divorce court
proceedings, and hungry for the show-element in
the pulpit and at the altar, it must affirm that the
man, be he Charles Strong or another, who
swears to the written ordinances of the Church,
must stand by his oath, must uphold the ordin-
anocs, must glory in the destructive features of
his system, or must drop the system and clear to
where he believes there Is a better God, or betake
himself to some place where he will not bo a sign-
mark of what the devil can do with a pliant human
conscience.
Some Newspaper Theologians.
A «ouple of Sundays ago a notiee pregnant of
serious meaning was given from the pulpits of the
Roman Catholic churches in Melbourne, By order
of Archbishop Goold the congregations were in-
formed that when any subject of the faith died,
the priest who attended him on his death bed
would, if he believed him to have died “as a good
Catholic,” deliver to the relatives a certificate set-
ting out that he was to receive a Christian burial.
In the event of sudden death, this certificate was
to be obtained from some pr.est who knew deceased
t« bare lived the life of “ a good Catholic.” Should
there be no certificate, there was to be no Christian
burial. That was in effect the Archbishop’s man-
date. It is plain that a considerable section of the
R.C. population must be seriously affected by it.
It will truble those especially who are unable to
recognise what, or how much, Is covered by the
phrase “good Catholic.” The Archbishop has not
defined the phrase, and many will feel alarm in
thinking that individual clerics may each interpret
it to suit his own ideas. But the gravity of these
considerations applies only to Roman Catholics,
and could be well enough, and safely enough, left
to them to puzzle and ponder over, were it not
that in the light of the newspaper criticisms
the mandite called forth reflections of a
grotesque and suggestive kind obtrude them-
selves upon the mind of every reader
who has a conviction at all, or the slight-
est and slenderest coherency of thought.
From tho Argus, that knows something, to tho
World that knows nothing, the Melbourne press
sets itself from time to time to put tho churches
right. Where it means to put them, what it moans
to do with them, has not entered into the heart,
even of James Smith, to conceive. It has drawn
some churchmen adrift—as witness Charles
Strong. It has induced some churchmen to pose
in the Pauline attitude of “ all things to all men”—
as witness Bishop Moorhouse. By its foolish
applause, when it found a man “ broadening.” It
led him to flatten himself; and by its still more
foolish denunciation, when it found a man logical
It forced him to become bigoted. The churchman
who allowed himself to be influenced by the Mel-
bourne press of recent date must be the veriest
weathercock on the chimney of religious society.
It were intelligable If the spirit of Thomas
Walker stirred in the editorial sanctum. But it
doesn’t. Nothing stirs there but vanity and
inconsequential religious twaddles. If a man does
not believe in the Presbyterian covenants, bow
dare he, reading the words with the sense that all
men give the words, lift his face to Heaven and
swear he does believe in them ? If a Church of
England man swears to his articles and catechisms,
how dare he make it appear that the many things
ho has assumed office to maintain are not of
necessity to bo maintained or urged at all? If a
liquid be labelled “sherry” surely it does not
render the label less false to affirm that it is
an excellent sort of Port. If the brand
be “ Bourbon” let the liquor be Bourbon; if
“ Henessy” let it bo Henessy; but in the
name of human reason do not mix up denomina-
tions whose raison d'etre is their important, and
essential, and absolutely necessary destructive
features, so that the professing and salaried
Church of England official can be practically
t anything,” and so that tho Presbyterian or other
who says—“ These are our loaves—we must live
by them or break from them ’’—must be de-
denounced as a hardshell bigot. The Roman
Catholic Church of Victoria is the newspaper
bigot now. But it is logical. If subjects will not
not be subjects, they can go. And if there be one
feature that dispassionate outsiders admire in the
action of Dr. Goold it is how himself and his
clergy appear to laugh at tho newspaper theolo-
gians of Melbourne, and go on their way.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Coominah” (Warrego): Thanks. Write
again....“Twig”: Very funny, but too hot—
“Mac.”; Yes, always acceptable “Quid Pro
Quo” (Tasmania) : Thanks “Coonamble”:
What you send us is a straight libel ?—“George
Lacy”: Will give you a show next week....
“X.Y.Z.”: Will read and consider—“A Visitor”:
MS. received.. .“Whlpstick”: Will print at our
earliest “W.A.”: Scarcely suit us, thanks —
“ T. Golden ”; Can’t say, for certain—“ B. McE.”:
You have very nearly made some jokes—“ F.H.”
(Callubri): Lord Charles Beresford and Jem Mace
did not meet “Cacoethes Scrlbendi”: The man
who circulated these handbills was. we believe
criminally prosecuted, but found to be insane and
secluded accordingly “A.C.” (Cooktown): Too
lively for this country....Very pretty,
but where did you see the girls playing cricket ?...
“ P.S.”: Mr. Dan. O’Conner has a perfect right to
attend Mrs. Hampson’s mooting, if he so chooses..
“Kiatna”: Yes, but Mr. Humphery, M.L.A., is no
longer an official assignee “Toowoomba”:
Thanks; but you’ve sent us some jokes as old as
the inmates of Liverpool Benevolent Asylum —
“One of the Good Old Time”: Yes, were he to
imitate his Victorian brother, and go in for bi-
cycle exercise—for a race with the tram, say—it
might tend to reduce that fatal fatness, in the
depth of w'-ich an ultra-Conservatism lies herme-
tically buried, quite Impervious to the light of a
healthy Liberalism. And when a man grows
fat In body, hr often becomes fat in mind
“ Araachure ”: Yes, now that the season is on, they
needn’t be hard up. They can always gain an
honest living by “ selling matches.”.. .“J.B.”:No
doubt a lot of greasy loungers infest the police and
other Courts, yet they are more within their rights
in so doing than is a Police Magistrate for rebuking
them for doing it. Sessions in camera, with privi-
lege of entrance accorded to the respectable alone,
would soon degenerate into very questionable
tribunals. The atmosphere of an open court,
frousty as it often is with the airs exhaled from
ihe greasy lounger, is judicially healthier than
would be that of one kept excruciatingly select.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
Life Insurance as :i provision.—The impor-
tance of securetnent of means tor those we might
else wise leave in needy curcumstance, is not mure
wise than the procurement of an extended lease of
life by the contmoui use of Wolfe's Schnapps.
THE CLERICS’ VICTORY;
OR,
THE SOUTHERN QUEENSLAND ELECTIONS.
Dear Bulletin,—
To ye benighted souls that d veil
In Now South Wales, a tale I’ll tell;
A tale that smacks of good old times,
A tale that musically chimes
With every generous thought—
A gleam of sunshine on your night.
Shed by that old religious light
By blood of martyrs bought.
Now down, ye sceptics, bite the dust;
Ye sons of Anarchy and lust—
That virtue damn—that clog the air
With Doubt’s putrescence, stripped and bare—
Your shallow creed must crawl;
Your fallacy that men are men
Must creep back to its old dark den,
While priests victorious bawl.
(For those that are not bigots' bawds
This floorer yet one hope affords.
One softening ray to smooth your wrath;
’Tis this, it happened in the North,
And that you know—ah, well.
The North—let this be understood
By lay and cleric, bad and good—
Is not a league from hell.)
But, even now, I’m half afraid
You’ll say too strong a case I’ve made;
For this revolting tale is one
That’s smirched the fair face of our suu
Since Christ on Calvary died:
That Christ whom slippery priests have made
A coin decoy —a tool of trade—
And unctuous lips belied.
A quiet town, where Friendship true
In hand with Toleration grew,
Had sent out buds in every limb,
And old-world hatreds long grown dim.
But what a change to-day I
In place of Friendship’s honest beams,
On every face dark Hatred gleams
With fiendish murderous ray.
The men crowd in—their hearts on fire;
All maddened by the loathsome liar,
Who plays upon their biassed minds,
And each forgotten feud unwinds
To feed the bigot flame.
Till now. fast at each others' throats.
He stands aloof, and calmly gloats,
Nor feels the flush of shame.
Heigho I for days when this is past,
And ne'er a shade its image cast;
For days when none need blush to say
That men are of one common clay,
And bound by common ties:—
For days when Love and Thought shall reign,
When men have cast, with man’s disdain.
These brutish enmities.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Publicans who sell bad whisky—or “ bot-
tled earthquake ’’—are now known as “ Fusel-
heres.”... A Wagga solicitor shut his eyes and fired
a revolver at a burglar in his room. The death of
an old man opossum lies at his door—A Queens-
land paper advocates boating on the Norman as
follows: “ With light skiffs, the youth could
strengthen his muscles and expand his lungs by a
daily pull; the lover give quiet utterance to his
fervid fancies in the privacy of the boughs that
lave the (lowing stream; and the paterfamilias re-
lax himself and spouse.” This comes of writing
after an Oddfellows’ ball — The famous Kiama
“ blowhole ” has been quite quiet since John
Davies, at the recent banquet, knocked It out in
one round. Yes. sir; in one round of ginger-beer.
... Wo wish Moncure Conway could inoculate
Fosbery with some correct views concerning the
“ Law of Progress and Arrest.” The way in which
the King-street (Sydney) corners are blocked, and
the footwav in front of Tatt.’s and similar spots, is
disgracof; 1. Move on should be the law of progress,
and arrest the doom of the loafer who wouldn’t...
We have received from Melbourne a copy of a new
penny weekly paper— The Sun. It doesn’t shine,
and will, in our opinion, very soon stand still
At Mount Glpps station (N.8.W.) this season, one
shearer put through in a day 149 sheep; several
more over 140, others exceeded 130, and the average
all round of 33 men was 110—A notice in a
country paper runs to this effect: “Shearing
will commence on Skinflint’s station on such a
date. Strictest rules; no grass allowed to shearers’
horses.” However, it’s understood that he allows
them water and air There is (rouble up North
over certain recent magisterial appointments. The
time may again come when the roll of J.P.’s
will be revised by a man with a big pen.
The Hon. Dr. Hobbs.
The gentleman whose portrait appears in
our front page has occupied a seat in the
Legislative Council of Queensland since the
separation of that colony from New South
Wales, and has earned the regard of the
colonists by his steady adherence to a
balanced liberalism. There is no more con-
scientious and unassuming legislator in Aus-
tralia than Dr. Hobbs; while, as a profes-
sional man and private citizen, his attain-
ments and social quality have won for him a
foremost place in the one capacity and
universal esteem in the other.
On the night of the 10th instant, the
Synagogue in Bourko-street, Melbourne, was illu,
mlnated with gas in circular Jets, and resplendent
with beauty of several degrees. This is a polite
way of putting the latter attribute, but, as our
opinion goes, tho politeness is not half as far away
from the truth as most politeness is. The occasion
which brought us to that primitive house of prayer
or house of primitive prayer, was the Fast of the
Atonement, in which the children of Moses annu-
ally exercise themselves. Their rubric ordains
that males over 13 and females over 11 must abstain
on this anniversary from eating and drinking, for
the solid 24 hours. As we looked along the benches
crowded with intelligent men; as we looked around
the galleries, crowded with, on the whole, pre-
possessing and intelligent women; as we listened
to the prayer of supplication that rose from the
central dais and was chorussed throughout the
temple, we thought of a few things. First,
that Christ was right when he branded the
race with the scornful labels of “ Scribes and
Pharisees.” They were there—the scribes and
pharisees! You saw it in their lip-service; you
heard it in their “customary ” tone; you found It
in the faces of the “monlsh’’-Ieuders, the monish*
pursuers, the monish or life squeezers, many of
whom sitting there with the silk scarves upon
their shoulders, and reading their prayers from
right to left, you knew personally to have been
made of steel to tho widow and of iron to the
orphan. And we also thought how hard a thing it
is to kill any sort of creed. After all Christ’s work
for eighteen hundred years, after spilling blood in
streams to establish the new religion and shedding
blood in rivers to drown the old one, the old one
can still fill a large temple in a small town with
a congregation of believers. And we went on
thinking how even the now religion, whose
budding life was so beautiful, into whose ears
angels once sang songs of peace and love, and
round whose brows a halo of human hope once
settled, had come to earn the scourge of Its pre-
decessor, and, when widows wept and orphans
cried, had come to harden its face into iron and to
harden its heart into steel. And he went on think-
ing of a time when tho world will be older, and
when In a town the size of Melbourne someone will
go to see a Paschal Service in a cruciform temple,
and looking round on the white surplices and
golden stoles will turn away thinking how hard a
thing it is to kill any sort of a creed. And we said,
descending the steps, “ May the man be the holder
of a young creed ! May he live at a time when its
eye is budding, when the angels are singing, when
the halo of hope is shining ! And may he not, like
us, go in to gaze on barrenness, and come out to
gaze on barrenness !’’
Kidney and Urinary troubles are universal,
and the only safe and sure cure is Hop Bitters-
rely on it. Read. ;


IBBS,
BRIGHT & CO-, 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN•
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL*
ANTONY GIBBS Sc SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies •
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON—Head Office : HONGKONG.
J. C. Gostling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)— Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsboroug’h—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c. .
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester —The celebrated Otto Silent Gas Engines,
Bow, M‘Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, Sic,, &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco —Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c. ,
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c. ,
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France —Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bllston—Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES. _ „ .
New South Wales.—Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria. —James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hlncks.
tW INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
TRICYCLES.
"UST ARRIVED, a large shipment of the
celebrated
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladies or Gentlemen.
Send for lists and TERMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers.
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street.
Sale ZS321traord.lxa.ar37 - 1
N
OTICE to QUIT our STORE at 56 Clarence-street, having been given by Lister Henry, in conse-
quence of his requiring more room, we are
COMPELLED TO SELL OUR LARGE STOCK OF OVER
200 PIANOS AND ORGANS
before the end of this month.
This is the more unfortunate, as we have only just landed some beautiful instruments, which, by
reason of their excellence of finish, would command high prices, but which we must turn over oven at
lower rates than our competitors ask for inferior goods.
Careful inspection and trial will infallibly bear out the truth of our statement and those of many
eminent authorities who have seen our instruments, that they are UNEQUALLED in AUSTRALIA
for VALUE, MAGNIFICENCE of FINISH, and RICHNESS of TONE.
Those who wish to see the most beautiful Model Pianos in Sydney are cordially invited. No one is
S SPEAK for THEMSELVES.
pressed to buy. OUR PIANOS and ORGANS
THE SMITH ORGANS, from 11 to 90 guineas, will be sold during the month at liberal discounts.
David Lee says “ By far the finest instrument of the kind I have ever seen.”
** Thn nnovoof tVin ninn m-iron wliinh mrnr PQTTI n
Julius Here says The nearest approach to the pipe organ which ever came under my notice.”
,l Fisher, the eminent Professor of Music, writes “I am happy to testify to the
J. Churchil , , .
excellence of your Smith American Organs. The one in use in the Public Training School, Fort-street,
has given general satisfaction. Its tone is pure and pipe-like in quality, the Kaolophon especially being
an exquisite solo stop.”
A Clergyman says During the last three days I have visited every music store in Sydney, but
have found your instrumeuts far superior both in quality and cheapness.”
GASH : OB THE EASIEST TERMS. Illustrated lists on application to
CRAMPTON & BRUCE, 281 George Street,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET.
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
&
are the largest consumers off American
Leaf In the colonies, hence the FIRST
position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES. —Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
{3?”D. & S., Importers of Pipes of every kind. Cigars, and all Tobacconists* Fancy Goods and Sundries
OF GOOD COFFEE
IS WHAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOB
A. G. Churchwooa’s Crown B
BLENDED PROM THE FINEST MOCHA, JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES.
2v£artlrr SZeedxan,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees counti
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Galiorv
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager,
TO STAND THIS SEASON at MULGRAVE,
near WINDSOR, the Imported coaching
stallion*
PERFECTION,
the thoroughbred horse,
TESTATOR,
and the Exmoor pony,
UNCLE TOM.
PERFECTION, a brown horse, 5 years old, stands
17.1 hands high, perfect in symmetry, with grand
action. His pedigree is as follows Sire Coker’s
Perfection, g s Warthe’s Perfection, gg s Jackson’s
Perfection, gggs Catton, ggggs Bay Becking-
bam, g g g g g s Grand Conqueror, g g g g g g s
Henderson’s King George, Dam by OldT Pheno-
menon (which horse was sold for 800 guineas), g d
by Wink’s Champion. Two half-brothers to Per-
fection were sold for 500 and 800 guineas respec-
tively, when 5 and 3 years old. PERFECTION
took 16 first prizes, and was never beaten in a show
ring.
TESTATOR, by the Tester (imp.) out of Rosedale
(imp.), the dam of Kingsdale, winner of the
Hawkesbury Guineas, &c., &c.
UNCLE TOM, winner of first prize at late
Sydney Exhibition, by Sir Thomas (imp.), out of
Pretty Star (imp.) He stands 12 hands high, has
immense strength, beautiful symmetry, and per-
fect action. Pretty Star’s dam (Starlight) was
champion racing pony in England, having won
over £2000, Including a match for £500, and was
never beaten.
Terms—
PERFECTION :
Mares left in paddock.. .. 8 guineas each.
Mares taken to horse .. .. 6 „ „
TESTATOR 4 „ „
UNCLE TOM 3
Good paddocks provided, and every care taken,
without responsibility. As only a limited number
of mares will be taken, early application is neces-
sary.
GEORGE 8. TEO.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at TOCAL,
PATERSON, the following Thoroughbred
Horses
THE DRUMMER (imp.) Subscription full.
GOLDSBROUQH,
By Fireworks out of Sylvia, by Fisherman (imp.)
out of Juliet (imp.) by Touchstone. He is Sire of
the following winners Kamilaroi, Morpeth,
Hilarious, Galata, Carmen, Empress, Tillemby,
Wheel of Fortune, Sou’ Wester, Mileta, Kaipara,
Primrose, Lord of the Lake, Townely, King’s Own,
Honeydew, &c., &c.
Terms . . .. .. 15 guineas each mare.
STRUCK GOLD.
"Struck Good Is a beautiful dappled brown,
stands 16 hands, with splendid bone, great strength,
and beautiful symmetry. His pedigree cannot be
surpassed (as ho combines the much-prize dstrains
of Birdcatcher, Sweetmeat, and Bay Middleton),
which is as follows By the Miner (the only horse
in England that ever beat the mighty Blair Athol),
out of Whinnie (dam of Whip, a great performer,
and winner of seven weight-for-ago races in one
season), by Pelion, out of Tapioca, by Sweetmeat
(the sire of Macaroni), out of Ellen Middleton
(Wild Dayrell’s dam), by Bay Middleton. The
Miner is by Rataplan (full brother to Stockwell),
out of Manganese, by Irish Birdcatcher, &c.
Struck Gold was placed second to Chester at the
late Intercolonial Show, beating Loup Garou,
Imported Eastley, &o.
Terms : £5 5s. each mare.
Good paddocks for the use of mares, with plenty
of grass and water. Every care taken, but no
responsibility incurred.
Season commences 1st September, 1883, and ends
January 1st, 1884, when all mares must be paid for
and removed.
Mares sent by steamer will be received at Mor-
peth ; by train at West Maitland, on receipt of
reasonable notice. For further particulars, apply to
F. REYNOLDS, Tocal, Paterson.
THE Imported Blood Stallion,
GRANDMASTER,
(Sire of Sting and Sussex) will Stand at Minimbah
this Season. Terms : Fifteen Guineas per Mare.
Also,
LECTURER,
By Kingston, dam Sappho. Terms Ten Guineas
per mare.
The Proprietor will give two Cups, value £25
each, to be run for at the Northern J.C. Meeting,
season 1886-7, for then two-year-olds, the produce
of mares served this season by the above horses,
respectively.
Also, the Blood Stallion,
KING OF THE WEST,
by Gemma di Vergy, from Princess by Little John,
her dam Tomboy by Marquis from a Camerton
Mare. He was a good performer in the best com-
pany, and ran through five seasons, being wonder-
fully sound, and of fine constitution. At three
years old he won the Mudgee Maiden Plate, beat-
ing Novice and Constance; besides running several
times placed. At Four, won Hawkesbury Turf
Club Handicap, beating, among others, Stanhope,
Ladybird, Jav lln, Burwood, and Viva ; and was
several times second and third. At five years’ old
he won the Hawkesbury Turf Club Handicap, for
the second time, carrying 7st., beating Stanhope,
7st. 91b., Athos, 6st. 71b., Othello, 6st. 111b., Sweet-
briar, Sir Solomon, and four others. At Randwick
Spring, won Waverley Handicap (7st. 121b.) beating
Evangeline, Sunbeam, Ladybird, Llama, Viva, and
four others. Won the Stewards Cup, at Bathurst,
carrying 7st. 81b., beating Blair Athol, Little King,
and eight others. Won Hawkesbury Summer
Handicap (7st.lllb.), beating Wrangler, Priam, and
seven others ; and ran second to Beadsman for the
Cudjegong Handicap, at Mudgee. The following
season he did not score a win, but ran unluckily,
as he had run on many previous occasions.
Terms : £6 5s. per mare.
The Draught Horse,
GRAND AUSTRALIAN,
will Stand this Season at Minimbah. Terms: £3 5s.
per mare. He is 5 years old, bred by Mr. E. Larkin,
Appin, by Honest Tom, Imported ; dam Lady Lin-
coln, Imported. He served 11 1 mares last season,
100 of them proved in foal. He is, without excep-
tion, one of the finest horses ever bred in Australia.
All mares to be removed and paid for by 1st
January, 1884.
Good paddocks. Every care taken, but no re-
sponsibility incurred.
D. F. MACKAY,
Dulcalmah, Whittingham.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duokenfleld
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion’
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp'e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Reason ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that date will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN BALES.
Duckenfleid, September 18th, 1888.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
tiiSt-class Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility
MARIBYRNONG
GRAND FLANEUR.
RAPID BAY ..
MOORTHORPE
JULIAN AVENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLERC ..
CHILDE HAROLD
Subscription Full.
Terms, 30 Guineas per Mare
do. 15 do. do.
do. 15 do. do.
do. 15 do. do.
do. 15 do. do.
do. ’2 do. do.
do. 12 do. do.
.■A- e „ w half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclerc
at half-price.
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
DYDESDALES.
x I™ported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
fo £x. Ma r es ’ every care and attention, but
without responsibility
MUIR LAD,
Terms —6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
nave proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, thejr progeny at six months old selling
from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
Aii Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1,1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
CLYDE LAD.
TO STAND THIS SEASON,
at ASHFIBLD, and tra-
'vel Cook’s River, George’s
River, Bankstown, Liverpool, Parramatta, Baulk-
ham Hills, Ryde, &c. The pure-bred Prize Clydes-
dale Stallion, CLYDE LAD, winner of the second
prize at the Agricultural Society’s Exhibition,
Sydney, in 1882 (as “ Menangle,” see official cata-
logue), against all ages and all comers, and special
prize at Maitland in the same year (being too late
to enter for the ordinary prizes, Clyde Lad is a
rich dark brown, 5 years old, stands 17 hands high
on short legs, and, as a draught horse, is said by
competent judges to be a perfect model. He Is a
sure foal getter. Pedigree By Muir Lad (imp.),
the champion horse of the colony ; dam Jess, by
Shakespeare (imp.); g d Diamond, by Major (imp.);
ggd Bess, by Chestnut George (imp.); gggd
Bonnie Jean (Imp.); Bonnie Jean by Cassill’s Scotch
Champion, sold in Scotland for £1900 when 12 years
old (see Scotch Stud Book, vol, 1, page 103'.
Terms : 4 Guineas for single mare; liberal allow-
ance tor two or more mares. Good paddocks, with
every care, but no responsibility.
Apply to Groom, at Dobroyde, Ashfleld.
K
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
Agent: G. ADAMS,
119 Pltt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne
SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETISTS,
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GBORGE-STREBT MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
PF” Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
JAPER KNIVES, Ham Knives, and Bread
Knives, just arrived. F. G. Bennett, King-st.
m
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are tbiee kincis, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to peisons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
ee that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 230 Oxford-street, London.” •
era
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked By ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution .—To guard against fraudulent im nations,
see that each box bears the name of “ WUoox ana
Co., 389 Oxford-street, London


THE COURT OF THE CORONER.
Yep needn't start. You needn’t take up
your fans, nervously plait your flounces, and “ not
know where to look.” This is going to be so deli-
cately done, that, when you read it, you will write
little notes to us, with “ agreeable ” spelt with one
“e,” and ask us to compose you Chrlstmas-card ver-
aicles about the red-breasted robin on the snow-
spangled tree, a beauty of nature so precious to me.
You chosen ones, who dress in elegant attire—who,
like the lily, toil not, but pass the shining hours
lounging on dioramio sofas, and picking out tunes
on time-payment “Palings”—you gorgeous butter-
flies of fortune must be instructed. You must not be
shocked, of course; but you must have whispered
to you that “ such things exist.” What “ things
Oh, nothing very dreadful. By the way, what is
dreadful ? Scarcely anything.
• • *
We went to see a man hanged once, and
expected to shudder; but we didn’t. We remem-
ber the time well. It was a very cold morning, and
wo stood next to a gentleman in a grey coat who was
eating pea-nuts. They wore a long time bringing
out the party who was to form the piece de
resistance of the entertainment, so the pea-nut
man asked us to partake, and we partook ; after-
wards drinking spirits out of a friendly flask. The
man who was to bo hanged, when he did come out,
reminded us, having his hands behind his back, of a
certain virtuoso who, when coming on the stage,
used always to hide his concertina in the small of
his back, and, producing it suddenly, play “ Home,
Sweet Home ” with the same variations that killed
the composer. The man made a little speech, we
remember, in which ho told us that he thought we
were In a bad way, and urged us to repent while
there was yet time, and go to the glorious land
whither ho was bound. Then he—went. Once—
this was in Canton—we saw a spectacle that would
cause even persons case-hardened to horrors
perhaps a passing quiver of the eyelid. Forty
pirates were to bo executed in a potter’s field
there, and, receiving an Invitation from the police
mandarin (who was probably aware of our penchant
for a little cheerful relaxation) we wont. It was
barely dawn when we got there, and all the pirates
were standing in a row with their pig-tails tied
round their heads, and the executioner, a raild-look-
Ing Chinaman, was sharpening a two-handled sword
with a scythe-hone. In front of the “subjects”
upon which he was to operate, were a number of
crazy, oblong wooden boxes with the lids beside
them—oases resembling so many mangles without
the rollers. When the Mandarin had smoked his
pipe out, ho said something to the headsman, who
nodded cheerily. He then went behind No. 1
pirate, and directing his attention to the comet,
cut his head off, and so on until No. 10 had been
attended to, when the artist retired for a brief
period to re-hone his claymore. He completed his
task at length, and was deservedly applauded.
This Celestial Sanson only made one slight mistake.
One piratical gentleman, unconscious that it was
his turn so soon, put his hand up to scratch
his oar, and so, when the stroke came, he lost
a head and a finger, too. The Mandarin was cour-
teous enough to offer us the finger, but we declined
it on the plea that, as our stay in China was to be
a short one, we had decided to live upon “the
European plan.” At this moment a number of
Co olios appeared, and proceeded to en-ooffln the
cadatres, and as they, with an indifference that is
purely oriental, jumbled every head in with the
wrong body, there was much confusion (and a
ffght) afterwards amongst the weeping relations of
the executed, who were waiting outside to lament
over the corpses first and sell them afterwards.
And it came to pass that, when we had done seeing
this, wo went out, and behold, we had curried eggs
for breakfast.
• • •
The cheerfulness of the foregoing little
narrative of our experience, will be, we take it, a
guarantee to our readers that there will be nothing
of the “charnel-house” element about this
sketch, and that it may be read, even by a coffee-
palace waitress, without the toupoon of a shud-
der. To commence, therefore, with an asrated
(is this right 1) touch, we may state that
when first wo heard of the case of Eliza-
beth Phillips we were Interested in It to
the extent of seeing the prisoners, mainly be-
cause in the event of their acquittal, and of our
subsequently encountering them In society, we
considered it would enable us to be on our guard,
while treating them with every due courtesy, not
to be boisterously familiar. So we hied us one
sunshiny morning, to assist at the Inquest. To
get to the Coroner’s Court you have to pass that
noble institution, the Hyde Park Asylum, the oc-
cupants of which, at one time, were constant and
appreciative readers of Sydney Punch. Then
you go down a passage past the District Court
where the suitors crack nuts outside, and the
Judge cracks jokes inside—a proceeding which
causes a grovelling bar to smile spasmodically, and
obsequious attorneys to deliver themselves of
chuckles that are hideously artificial. You turn
(if not previously arrested by a bailiff) to the left,
and mounting a crazy staircase, enter a good-
sized room, lighted by three windows on one
side, and two on the other. This chamber
is fitted up as a Court-house, even to the
dividing rail, popularly supposed to have been
invented to prevent the uncombed relatives of
prisoners from attempting to “ get at” the
reporters and trying to bribe them with pigs’ foot
to keep their relatives’ names out of the paper.
The place is clean and fresh, and is ornamented
with a medioeval chandelier, and an old gentleman
with a cynical smile and a grey beard, who is the
Coroner. Mr. H. Shiell, J.P., is one of the most
remarkable men in our country, sir, and is noted
equally for his grace in sitting upon corpses and
his humanity. During the trial of Marie Layo he
especially distinguished himself in this respect.
Noticing, at one stage of the proceedings, that
there was a lack of cheerfulness and tone about
the prisoner, it occurred to his Worship that she
required refreshment. So he caused buns (“always
a moist, a jovial sort of viand”) to be brought
to her, and appeared much surprised that
she did not devour them. She didn’t even
take them away with her, and the subse-
quent fate of those buns remains to this day a
dark and gruesome mystery. It is true that, shortly
after the rising of the dread tribunal, wo met the
offspring of a brother-scribe, who was present,
going down the street to borrow some “ blue,” and
we noticed that she smelt rather strongly of cur-
rants ; but it shall never be said of us that we,
with all our faults, endeavoured, even by the most
playful of inuendoes (only one “n,” Mr. Kennedy),
to oast suspicion on one who basks, like ourselves,
in all the glories of literature. To us the profes-
sion of letters is sacred. We could tell, did we
choose, of paragraph-manufacturers mending,
in the dark and silent watches of the night,
their pavement-paralysers with tin-tacks and a
sardine-tin: and ironing, as the rising sun
gold-flecked the murmuring waters, a garment
of grisly aspect, the cuffs of which would
blazon out upon a tricked and deluded uni-
verse on the morrow. Wo have known authors’
wives—real authors whoso stories have appeared
day by day in the paper—we have known, we say,
these ladles take in mangling and the general
public, by only working for a “ connection,” and
maintaining when “in company” a spruce, not to
laaguwfappoarftuce. Byt we wgyJd die. goofier
than make any of these things public. Why, when
we meet a writer who has inked his sock in a
palpable manner to hide as the poor visionary
thinks a hole in his shoe, we always look up at the
moon; and if we encounter a chronicler of stirring
events with a glazed eye and a sluggish intonation,
we put it down to the salmon—we should rather
say, the red herring. These remarks will, we trust,
though perhaps slightly out of place in this article,
at once dispel all doubts (if any existed) as to the
affection, respect, and esteem in which we hold
our journalistic brethren. [There is a sincere ring
about the forgoing digression which must — or
should be—apparent to all.—En. B.l
• ♦ «
There is no dock in the Coroner’s Court, so
three of the prisoners were installed upon a form,
while the other two played about the rails, and
appeared to derive much amusement from the
proceedings. The first of the prisoners was a
stout, thick-set man, habited in a long black coat
liberally emblazoned with grease spots, and who
wore, oyer his dusky tweed trousers, a pair of
cloudy “ moles,” whose original colour none could
even guess at, but whose present tint was a com-
bination of brick-dust and tea-leaf after a very
long infusion. His face was fat and stolid; his
eyes small and retreating; and he wore a thick
moustache, together with hirsute bristles to which
the existence of all that is bright and beautiful in
nature had been a stranger for full half a re-
volving moon. This was Mr. Edward Williams.
During the inquiry, Mr. W. varied the monotony
by alternately whispering to the police and
scratching himself ; and presented, on the
whole, a picture, which, if not alluring,
was not without an interest which, top-
ping the weird, bordered on the awful. Seated
next to Edward—but as tar fiom him as the
limited length of the bench would allow—was a
slight man, about 25, with a light beard and thin
features, upon which was stamped an expression
of hilarity that to some prosaic persons might
have seemed, considering his peculiar position, a
little uncalled-for. He had a short black coat wiih
a narrow black velvet collar, and his appearance
was, if not of a fashionable tenour, at least one
that showed that ho had not during his life entirely
neglected those arts and graces which are said
(with what truth we know not) to make havoc in
the heart of woman. This was Connors. George
Kingsbury, who was next, is a man with a sharp
clean shaven face, and whose height touohca close
on that of A. G. Taylor. George wore a long coat,
that had been originally black but was now of
nearly as many colours as Joseph's, and round his
neck was a handkerchief that was almost equally
kaleidoscopic. His hair was black and crisp and
curly, and he chewed tobacco with an ease and
elegance which denoted long and continuous
practice. Mr. K. appeared to be on terms of con-
siderable familiarity with all the male witnesses,
and nodded and laughed at them with an air of
condescension which demonstrated plainly that,
though he had awakened and found himself noto-
rious, be was not one to hold aloof from those who
had associated with him in his obscurity.
• • •
To the extreme left, rubbing his nose
against the rail, was a youngster of about 14, who
was sprucely attired in a suit of black ; while a
very much smaller boy wandered about directly
in front of the prisoners’ bench. There was a
strong family likeness between the two; each hav-
Ing hard flat features and eyes deeply sunken in
their heads. Perhaps the man who looks the most
like a burglar in the world is Charles Bradlaugh—
a person who, it is, we believe, generally admitted,
is “indifferent honest,” and who has, at any rate,
as the universe is aware, “the courage of his
opinions.” The young Williams were not so ugly
as Bradlaugh, yet there was about them that
peculiar expression which is suggestive to the
timid of corduroy “shorts ” and bludgeons. All
we know is that, if we met either of those child-
ren after midnight on the Pyrmont Bridge, and
he asked for anything, we should unhesitatingly
give it him. To the right of us was a lady in tin
earrings and a faded black gown, whoso face be-
trayed the fact that she must have been exceed-
ingly beautiful at about the time the boy stood on
the burning deck, when all but he had fled. She
was very communicative, this lady, and was good
enough to point out to us the celebrities in Court.
She told us that her name was Yolande Leverrier,
and that she had seen better days. Wo caught her
remarks but imperfectly, though we understood
her to say that her cousin was a beadle, and she
had an aunt in the marines. To the left of us re-
clined a very gorgeous personage, indeed. This
was a lady attired m the extreme of the prevailing
mode, and underneath whose dainty hat was a face
of some comeliness, on every feature of which was
stamped Nature’s hall-mark of Innocence and vir-
tue. She had hair of a golden tint, and a tin regalia,
which, when the sunshone upon it, coruscated and
glittered with myriad sparkles. This lady said,
“If you put me in that box I shall faint; I
know I shall;” and, shortly afterwards, when
her name was called, and she was requested
to identify Joseph Williams as having been present
at the now historic “Pinkerton’s corner.” faint
she did in earnest, and was carried out of Court,
toes first, by the detectives, the countenances of
whom betrayed, we regret to say, a great deal more
hilarity than sympathy. We were much shocked
at this unfeeling conduct on part of the authori-
ties, and were, consequently, much relieved a little
later to officially learn that the poor sufferer had
sufficiently recovered to be enabled to partake of
prawns and porter.
m * #
In our immediate vicinity was a young
lady to whom a considerable amount of interest
seemed to attach. This was Miss Frances Danby,
originator of the now historic phrase—“ You’s a
goin’tocop it.” Miss Danby, to the mere super-
ficial observer, is not brilliantly attractive. Her
features are small, and of the type known as snub.
Her eyes are red, and she has apparently lent her
eyelashes to a friend. She is attired in a rusty-
black polonaise, and a white salrt that positively
howls for the mangle. Confident in the strength
of her social and other attractions, Miss Frances is
careless as to the polish of her balmorals ; and her
stockings, by their creases, betray the fact that
tape and ropeyarn are becoming, in her native
Woolloomooloo, scarce and costly articles. Away
to the left, with her back against the wall, is
anotner young lady, who is the cynosure of several
eyes, on account of having (in her own vernacular)
“put away the push.” This is Miss Elizabeth
Orr, whom a few favoured mortals are per-
mitted to call Lizzie. Miss Orr (who is
seemingly about 15 years of age) Is attired
In a dress of bed-curtain, and wears a crashed hat
adorned with a feather that broke its back early in
life, and a number of exceedingly artificial flowers.
She has a fresh complexion, has Mies 0.: brown
eyes, and a “ponum” of respectable dimensions.
Her fairy feet are encased In her uncle’s boots, and
her shell-like ears are unadorned by the gleam of
either the pearl or the emerald. As we enter,
James Barker is being examined. James (who is
an exceedingly se.edy gentleman, with a red nose
and a wandering eye) attracts much attention. It
was ho, as he admits, who served two years some
considerable time ago, for an assault on the dead
woman. James is sharply questioned by Mr.
Edmunds (a bachelor learned in the law. and very
much like the Prince of Wales in miniature), but
his evidence casts no fresh light on the proceed-
ings. All he says is that he was the first to discover
the body, having visited Woolloomooloo that
morning for the first time in three years. This
statement was received by the audience with mur-
murs of a derisive nature, and many hoarse
chuckles on part of Detective O’Callaghan, who
with Sergeant Pirie, present In a grey suit, has
been occupied in getting up the case. Mr. Barker,
however, adhered to his statement, and eventually
left the Court with many stains upon his hat. but
not one upon his character. Seated on a bench
inside the rail immediately facing the prosecuting
counsel, was a fresh-faced youth in a smart rig-
out, and who was conspicuous by the extreme
brilliancy of his laven ier tie. This was Blank
Livermore, Esq., who had refused to answer any
questions whatsoever, and who had been com-
mitted for contempt by the Coroner. The apparent
seriousness of his position did not appear to have
had that effect upon Mr. Livermore, which might
reasonably have been expected, for, during the
whole time he was present, he may be said to have
led the laughter and to have exhibited a demeanour
whose merriment bordered on the uproarious
Watching Blank Livermore, Esquire, was that
renowned police constable, long the terror of vice
and the admirer of virtue (vide D. T.) in Woolloo-
mooloo, William Montgomery Stewart.
» * »
The deposition clerk was a vision in a dark
grey suit and Sim Tappeitit eye, and whose rich
Ballinasloe brogue, when reading over the lies he
had put on record, betokened his Andalusian ex-
traction. He had a rhythmic intonation, had this
gentleman, that was very fascinating, and as he
read, if you closed your eyes, you might imagine
(that is, if your imagination was pretty well
stored up) that you were listening on the shores of
the Mediterranean to the twilight breezes singing
through an ASolian harp. Seated at the table was
one or the land marks of colonial history.
* • *
We stopped in that Court three hours
before emulating the example of “ all but he.” *
Then we went out, and manfully fought our way
through a seething mob of larrikins which had
congregated outside, each individual member of
whom appeared, by the expression of his coun-
tenance, to be fully prepared to give “Liz. Orr”
that “ lacing ” of which she seemed to be so much
In dread. And so, on in the sun-glow down;.the
street, meeting at every step faces that you have
met for years, and will, eventually, die of. Then
to a frugal lunch, and then home to softly rook
the sleeping innocent in its soap-box. Et pula—
ootid.
* “ The boy stood on the burning deck
When all but he had fled.”
Felicia He.ua.ns. [Pooh I—Ed. B.]
THE ELIZABETH PHILLIPS’ CASE.
TTJPES or CHARACTERSi
1. AS SHE ONCE WAS. 2. AS SHE BECAME. 3. SAMPLE LARRIKINS.


F. J. Lees, the Sheffield rider, has done the
most remarkable bicycling' on record. He under-
took to cover 30 miles In the hour, and did so -with
1 min. 30 sec. to spare, besides exceeding all pre-
vious records from one mile to twenty. The lirst
five miles were done in 14 min. 43 sec.; ten miles in
39 min. 33 sec.; fifteen miles in 44 min. 13 seo.; and!
twenty miles in 68 min. 34 seo. In the hour he
accomplished 30i miles 36 yards, by far the best
performance on record. The last ten miles weto
done in even faster time than the first—30 min,
13 sec., and the last five miles In 14 min. 38 sec. His
fastest mile was done in 3 min. 48 sec. R.
Howell, of Coventry, on the same day, did
the best mile on record, his time for half
mile being 1 min, 30 sec,, and for the
mile, 3 min. 40 4-5 sec. Over 3000 were present to
witness the running. Dr. H. L. Cortis a was the
best 30-mlle performance previously, but Lees
beats it by 46 sec. In his race with the Hon. Ion
Keith-Falconer, Dr. Cortis covered twenty miles
and nearly a quarter in the hour; so Lees wipes
out the doctor’s record by over a quarter ef a mile.
Sic tramit. &C. Dr. Cortis did his last (and fastest)
mile of the twenty in 3 min. 47 sec. as against Lees’
3 min. 48 sec. Howell’s time for the mile, 3 min,
40 4-6 sec., beats Dr. Cortls’s beet by four-fifths of
a second. This is a “ nasty Jar” for the amateurs
who have always crowed over the professionals—
perhaps a little more than there was any occasion
for. The wonder of Lees’ performance is that ho
should be the man to do this feat, as he has never
been looked upon a« better than a third-rate pro-
fessional, and has been beaten time after time by
Howell and Wood, who “put him through” as
recently as a fortnight before bis big exhibition.
Mb. DsCoubct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent: also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
In the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Advt.
World-wide Honors to St Jacobs Oil.
THE Great German Remedy, ST. JACOBS OIL,
stands honoured with the highest distinction
ever paid to a medicine. This is not only the case
in this country, but abroad everywhere. At the
New Zealand International Exhibition. 1883, it re-
ceived the magnificent First Prize Medal, together
with the Highest Diploma for being, according to
critical tests, the Best Pain Curing and Healing
Remedy known to mankind. In this connection a
few testimonials from distinguished men are here
c-iven as an evidence of the world-wide popularity
of ST. JACOBS OIL.
Opinions of Prominent Australians.
C C. COHEN, Esq., Mullens-street, Balmain, Syd-
ney.—“ One bottle of St. Jacobs Oil cured me
of a contracted leg of three years’ standing.”
Sworn to before Charles Kahio, Esq., United
States Consul.
DAVID SCOTT, Esq., of the firm of Messrs. Boyle
and Scott, Cricket and Football Depot, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.—” St. Jacobs Oil relieved me
at once of pain. I comment it to all footballer*
and cricketers.” . , _ .
W P. BOOTH, Esq., Thomas-street, Balmain.—
“Nothing like St. Jacobs Oil, in my opinion,
(or a valuable remedy.” „ _
A. ADAMS, Esq., City View.Ryde, Sydney, N.S.W.
—“St. Jacobs Oil cured me of a sprained knee,
and enabled me to walk about in four days.
WALTER HAYNES, Esq., Manager tor A. Church-
wood, York-street, Sydney, N.S.W.— “ Acknow-
ledges St. Jacobs Oil as an extraordinary
J. Esq., Town Buyer for Messrs.
S. Hoffnung and Co., Pitt-street, Sydney,
8.-W.—“ I Took on St. Jacobs Oil as a univer-
sal panacea for all kinds of pain.”
A cash reward of one hundred pounds will bo
p-ud by the Charles A. Vogeler Company of Bal-
timore. Maryland, United States of America, pro-
irietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their accredited
ooal representatives, to any person producing
jroof to the effect that the testimonials published
■jy them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
r °St U J 1 acoba Oil, the great German remedy, con-
quers pain. Sold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the world. Price Jn
New South Wales, Half-a-arown a bottle. Direc-
tions for using In eleven languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for New South Wales.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
a-me Balmain people have given Mr.
m l,a., £210. We would. If wo dared to,
Jacob that silence, being golden, his
;®e&«on will buy Just £310-worth.
0-wopnine reforms often come from unex-
Quarters. At holy Adelaide, the city of
l?%hes the Legislative Assembly has decided on
abolition of oaths. Sydney and Mol-
will probably follow suit when twenty-flve
f cent. Of thb population are up for perjury.
pe *he MflrqUis of Lortie and his Royal
take their departure from Canada this
The Princess was anything but a faVoUr-
be Canadian ladles (not that they Saw too
I* 6 «t,ofthe “ Governess ’’-General, for What with
“home,” and her retirement to warmer
, W hen the winter set In, they enjoyed but
of the sunshine of the Royal presence), and
i:* lolls will not be deplored. The msthetle Louise
® s thA unfortunate Marquis couldn’t make them-
at home in snow-shoes, or on the ice, as did
!ulrnredecessors—Lord and Lady Dufferln—who
th main Arm “first favourites” In Canadian so-
pfetV’s estimation.
The tiondoll correspondent of a Melbourne
„a,. sneaking of the apprbachlflg visit, of the
SSfof Bosebery* saVs that Australian ladles will
by the Unimposlng dppeafanCe of
b h lucky lord, and will marvel not a little that he
hniild have secured such a matrimonial priz’d as
ft. heiress Hannah. “ Our correspondent,” per-
Ina never heard rumours of the luscious Louise
“ a R.Pomeroy, but a Princess with the same name)
Sin, a favourable eye upon the noble lord, who
g for the sporting proclivities of which an
oiiffiist lady disapproved—might have stood in the
"nateot leathers ” of the Marquis of Lorno-pos-
ihiv with more satisfactory results. He certainly
fioa verv “sporting” in those days, but now that
vfthfls "taken on r ' with the “grand old man,” he
nrniild possibly think twice before offering his
w.tnv a light from his noble cigar, as he used to
dowith poor Harry Constable.
Thomas Alva Edison is 36 years old, a
otive of Ohio. His father was Dutch, his mother
switch and his only teacher. He learned quickly,
much, and began earning his salt as a “train
iimr ” on a Canada railway. He used to sell lollies,
friiit newspapers and nicnacs, and dabble in scien-
liflo ’experiments, until one day the conductor
linked him out for setting the luggage car afire.
Then he narrowly escaped the awful fate of be-
aming a journalist, for, purchasing a second-hand
he started the Grand Trunk Herald
newspaper, being hlmseif the whole “ staff,” that
i. everything mental and mechanical, from editor
m devil Next, he did a little at the humble but
hnne-t profession of shoemaking; but happening
tn save a child from being run over, Its parent
tanirht him telegraphy, and procured him a billet
nf travelling operator. He telegraphed by day,
and toiled at his inventions by night, laughed at
hv his fellows, until his inventions attracted
notice, and he was engaged by a Telegraph Com-
nnnv as salaried inventor. But Edison didn’t see
thofunof letting other people get the exclusive
hmeflt of his brains. So he started the now cele-
brated Menlo Park factory. Edison is extremely
simple In manners and dress, becomes very ab-
sorbed, married a working girl out of his own
factory named his two children Dot and Dash, and
is considerably rich by his patents.
The Earl of Rosebery and Countess Hannah
will be with us before the end of the year. Hallelu-
iah! They come vid America, but the statement
that the Countess dreaded the longer sea-voyage is
absurd on the face of it—just as if two millions of
money could be made miserable by mal-de-mer
(please note the elegant alliteration In this last
sentence). Snobocraoy, in its various departments,
will be happv at last; but, for ourselves, we humbly
hope that the earthquake which will, doubtless,
celebrate his lordship’s landing on Australian soil,
may not be of too pronounced a character.
THE PEERLESS PEER.
All our hearts are in commotion,
Every bruin is in a whirl—
Borne upon the honoured ocean
Comes the gilded Scottish Earl.
How the boat must bound with pleasure,
Knowing that it boasts, aboard.
Such a rare and priceless treasure
As the little, sporting Lord I
How we’ll hail this brilliant meteor
When he comes to bring us bliss 1
(Many of the lords we meet here
Are such different “ form ” to this.)
He’s a gem of purest water—
Chieftain of the “something” clan—
Husband of rich Rothschild’s daughter—
Comrade of “the Grand Old Man!
Having gazed upon the beauty
Of the golden Earl and wife,
We shall far exceed our duty
If we longer cling to life;
Having passed “ my Lord's ” inspection,
Quailed beneath his heavenly eye,
We’ll beseech his kind direction
As to how and when to die.
How we shall all peer at the peerless Peer directly
he appears upon the pier 1 But this is madness.
The Hon. Thomas Bent is a great man in
Brighton, Melb. It may he that he is a great man
in other places as well, but the eye of history
seems to spot his greatness in Brighton only. This
may be because the eye of history becomes keener
in the strong fresh breeze from the sea. Or it may
be because Brighton, taken all together, is a little
Place, and, if the eye opens at all, It can’t help
taking in Tom. No matter how it comes, however,
Tom is not satisfied with a glory so circumscribed.
He yearns for a wider and more thorough recog-
nition. He tried for it in the Assembly, and per-
petrated a few jobs with the laborious industry of
genius; and, for a while, it looked as If he had
lifted himself miles higher than Brighton. But,
unluckily, the law of gravitation asserted itself,
and down he came to the pristine level. Ola
age is coming on him, and the necessity for
sinking the eye of history as something more
than the hero of a watering-place is urgent. It
vas suggested to him that he should get himself
appointed to England in an official capacity of
some kind, but the suggestion died suddenly when
the interrogatory “ Who would appoint him ?”
vas put. Like all aspiring minds, Tom has, there-
fore, chalked his own path. From Brighton, as a
base of operations, he will In a month kick himself
mto space, and, if ho does not impinge the retina
history, It will be strange. He will smell the
pretty flowers of Brighton, at the show on the 9th
November, will walk the pier with the Governor,
Jv 11 swill champagne at a banquet to be given in
sis honour in the place of sand, and will then
impart for that place, where the intelligence of
Australia will follow him, where the curiosity of
civilization will form a cordon round him, and
the eye of history will be full of him. He
depart for India. Yes, India is Tom’s via-
nf?*fa®* After the homage of Brighton, that
for inaia 8eems to Tom the noblest thing to strive
, Mr. James Smith delivered an interesting
S n “Cheerfulness as a Factor of Health,” In
Ron elbourne Young Men’s Christian Association
cn ,4i °b the 8th instant. The lecture was one of a
la connection with the Melbourne Health
Mr. Smith worked up some very neat
somilv? 08 ’ and told “what would have been if
eIse bad happened,” as cleverly as most
Pnv£ n e ex Pected. Or all things, the great J.8.
he in cheerfulness. It was in this spirit
vrinofi ea those glowing pictures of his pere-
hutJn ons ’ He feels conscious of having contri-
ihprai. 80 ™ething to the health of Australians
(rrn»fV ’ -Cpr a cheerful spirit is, as he holds, the
Now n °* cheerful reading and cheerful thinking,
ful an h- ,, Deuteronomy, what is there so cheer-
deDr<li»J 8 Pfctures of Travel?” On the contrary,
and i7? ln 8’ reading tended to produce jaundice
arti c iiy er .copPlalnt. We all understood that
ilmLu that description were written by
man -” So they were. James Is
of salts o K°od as a box of pills or a packet
Hsibln *.«t in truth, notwithstanding a slightly
0 effort to speak condescendingly, and
to patronize the authors whom he quoted, the
lecture was both pleasantly constructed and
pleasantly delivered. But somebody broke the
cup of joy which the occasion had filled by asking
what was to be done with the lectures when the
course was completed ? We were about recom-
mending 1 that everyone present should forthwith
forget them, and let them be delivered again as
new ones this time twelve months ; but other
opinions prevailed, and It was announced that
they would be published one after another in the
VicroniAM Review. If that doesn’t kill the
Review nothing short of an a*e need be thrown
at it. The "cheerful” James Smith is only one of
the lecturers, but there are about a dozen others in
“the course.” That will make the few subscribers
to the Review curl up and wish they had their
half-crowns back. Wnen back-blockers read Dr.
Rose ofl “Vegetable Diet,” and Sydney Gibbons
on “ Man as a Machine,” If they don’t drown them-
selves In a rum-barrel It Will be because they
cannot find one.
Chifliquy’s admirers will be delighted to
hear that that mendicant apostale’s lines have fallen
in pleasant places. Thus does the Kaukakee
Times describe the “ Pastor’s ” home at St. Anne’s:
—“Pastor Chlniquy at home Is SUf rounded by all
that wealth can afford in the furnishing of ft heme
of culture. tTshered Into the house, the newspaper
man was astonished at the library filling ail the
walls of a large room. The books covered every
subject of human thought. The residence as a
two-storey, with basement, orownGd with an ob-
servatory. The building, a very large one, heated
by a furnace, has hot and 4 cold water in all the
rooms. The furnishings include bathrooms, Urns-
sels carpets, lace curtains, furniture finished with
marble and elaborately carved, With great oil
paintings, mirroi's, and relics from all parts of the
world. A magnificent dinner was served, after
which the company broke up into small parties,
strolled about the residence, and talked of the
host's trip. Pastor Chlniquy said of himself and
his trips ‘ This was my third lecturing trip in Eng-
land. It has been the most profitable ot all of
them. I bought, during my trip, 150 volumes of
valuable books, among them a rare edition of the
‘Holy Fathers’ (? Oily Fathers.) I have many
invitations to lecture, but rest is sweet to a man of
my age.’ ” Hallelujah!
The “Scholarly writer” has a miserable
enough time of it in most civilised countries. Wc
have known him in many places, and, although his
circumstances varied, the balance of pain, as “ Aus-
tralie ” would put it, told heavily against him. We
have known him to be a parson “on the turning
point.” We hAve known him to be an inspector ot
nuisances, We have known him to bo a school-
master, And wb have known him to be nothing.
Hens mostly thb laSl, and Whatever else he was
throughout life, he mostly dies that. He is to be
found in Australia, of course. Australia would
not be the great and grand country it is if it
hadn't its “ scholarly writer.” He's down Mel-
bourne way now. His whole stock-in-trade is a
pocket “Hudibras” and a “ Vicar of Wakefield.
The grease On a cart-wheel suggests to him some
exploit of tho amofoils knight. The price of the
tWO-poUttd loaf CnablfeS him to work in a clover
allusion to Dr. Primrose. Sometimes he is in fashion,
and when that is so ho gets steady wages for his
lucubrations. In a sort of Macaulay strain he
ambles down a column, “full of splendid allusive-
ness.” But the fashion is wont to be short-lived,
or, having worked up three times over all the
points in Butler and Goldsmith, the proprietary
wants a rest, and the “scholarly writer dlsap
pears. His best hold, however, is an ambitious
journal Of rkdlCal pretentions and the usual
amount of Obfiiscilliofiat headquarters. We have
known him to grow fat on a journal like that, and
his splendid altuslveness would have 1 took well
and gave pleasure to all” even to this day were it
not that the proprietor of the journal was sent to
be governor or something In a gaol, and the paper
broke. But, since before the days of Stuart Mill,
radical journals have been deficient in the matter
of “scholarly writers,” and it is, therefore, that
this ill-starred child of genius, when he sees a
paper of this description, choker himself up with
Butler and Goldsmith, spits on his hands, and lays
hold with confidence. He’s half through Hudi-
hras” and the “Vicar,” now. He’s still going on.
He’s leader-writing for a Melbourne daily. Mac tel
The biggest than In If.Z. is James
M'Donald, lately elected M.H.R. for Bruce County.
Jemmy Is really a magnificent specimen of the
wingless biped, being a'•out seven feet in actual
height, and stout in proportion. Fortunately,
Jemmy is very good-natured, and not half so
dangerous as he looks. As a public speaker, be Is
certainly weighty, but rough—decidedly rough;
and when interrupted his speech Is apt to be
heavily shotted with the most crushing profanities.
But a neighbour of his, a rude unlettered farmer,
was once more than a match for him in that line.
They quarrelled about a gorse fence, which strove
in vain to keep them apart, and after a war of
words, which lasted over an hour, Jemmy found
himself completely swore out. Not another ‘ swear
could he remember to save his soul, while the
farmer was still fresh as paint, and fired volley
after volley into his discomforted enemy. Con-
sidering the day his own, he had Just turned his
back contemptuously on his big foe, when he
found himself suddenly lifted Into the air by the
slack of his trousers, and, after being swung to
and fro as if suspended from a crane, he was gently
tossed into the very centre of the gorse_ hedge,
which was about twenty feet high and prickly in
proportion. They have not quarrelled since. This
occurred six years ago. That very farmer was one
of Jemmy’s best friends at the late election.
Travelling from Wellington to Dunedin after his
first session in the New Zealand Parliament in
one of the Union Company’s steamers, the lengthy
legislator found his bunk much too short for
him. The consequence was that he was seized
with cramp in the legs during the night, and in
the paroxysms he thrust his feet through the par-
tition and brained a newspaper editor who was
sleeping in the next cabin. This was fortunate
for the editor, as previously he had no brains
worth mentioning, and he has been grateful to
Jemmy ever since. Jemmy’s feet, however, stuck
hard and fast between the boards, and in his
efforts to get free he nearly capsized the steamer,
which heeled over several times before Jemmy’s
feet got free. Tho language used by Jemmy on
the occasion is supposed to have started son.e of
tho ship’s timbers, as on reaching Port Chalmers
she was found to bo making water fast, and had to
be docked for repairs.
When our good friend, globe-trotter King-
ston, was doing Shanghai, he was “done” by some
child-like Celestial, who persuaded him that a
certain tea-house temple, situate In the centre of a
large pool with zigzag wooden roadways heading
from the land across the water under overhanging
trees, was the original scene of the willow-pattern
plate. Having swallowed the Ah-Sin-like state-
ment, “ J.tt.” went In for the tallest sort of talk
about this tea-house temple, foremost amongst
the sights of the world. In his “Three Days of
Shanghai,” after comparing the city Inself — Its
narrow streets, walls, gates, etc., to filthy Jeru-
salem—he exclaims: “How different to the wide
streets and clean ones of Janan I Sole object
of interest in Shanghai, according to Kingston, Is
the tea-temple In the pool. Who can wonder,
then, that the literary staff of the Celestial Em-
pire have conspired to “shanghai” the globe-
trotter? Not content with pointing out how he
had been sold about the willow-pattern temple,
they expose a variety of other defects in his
“Australian Abroad,” showing ho'W very much
abroad he was In his remarks upon Japs and China-
men, and otherwise tomahawking him after the
fashion of the provincial editor whose pet local
corn has been trodden on. Had “J.H.” avoided
reference to the rough and dirt-begrimed ugliness
of the decaying and dilapidated capital of Kian-su,
it is just possible that the Celestial Empire would
not nave found out, many moons after the publica-
tion of the giobC-ttOtter’s work, that In the picture
of two female musicians which illustrates Due
with the Japs,” the figures ftrfe Chinese ; that three
Japanese women sitting round a hibachl con-
stitute the subject of the picture “ DomCstJc Life
in China,” and that the illustration entitled “Dress
of Japanese Lady” is taken from a flve-cent. photo,
of a Soochow girl. Still, since when literary men
quarrel, the truth gets knocked of the collision,
the public ought to rejoice at learning the true
state of things with regard to three of the absurd
illustrations to the "Australian Abroad.” Kingston
should ttirh tM “slating” given him by the
Celestial EjMt'fffE to profit, and make up his
mind, when iff future purchasing photos, to illus-
trate his travels, to' mark them at the time so as not
to forget which is wWcH when he gets home.
Councillor Smith is to 1 be fbe neit Mayor
of Melbourne. He won’t sit until 9th November,
but he was duly elected the otheV day. Smith is
very much like the rest of the family. The pride
of a historic ancestry affects his utterance. When
he speaks, it is with the consciousness that there is
a great past away behind him, and that every foot
of it holds the ghost of adead Smith which exhorts
him to “pitch high.” So the Mayor-elect pitches
high. But, even were there no past paved with
Smiths, the Mayor-elect would be noted lor pitch-
ing high, out of consideration of the mazy vista ox
Smiths coming on. At the Council-table his eye
was always piercing. It was always fixed on the
milky way of Smiths. Guttering the athreels had
round it a Smithian halo, and the hunting down of
sthray dawgs was accomplished from a lofty Smith-
ian platform. Councillor Carter Contested the
Mayoralty with him, and, very singularly, ran
him quite close. This must surely have been
because the election day fell on a Tuesday, and
everyone knows that the Smiths pop their clothes
on Monday. If the election had been held on a
Saturday night or fl Monday morning early, Coun-
cillor Carter would hare had no show. The
thoroughfare of ColllnS-streCt would have been
blocked with Influential Smiths. But. as It was,
pedigree and an all-embracing future carried him
up. Smith’s first dinner Will be a great one, and it
is thought the TotTu Hall will not be large enough
for his first ball. Hitherto the ettl/ens responded
to the mayoral Invitation with right ready good
will, but as the entertainment was usually given
towards the end of the week, and not so late as
Saturday night, the Smiths wore practically dis-
franchised, or rather de-citlrienisea. This is now
to be altered. It is expected that the mayoral bail
will be held on a Monday night. That 1« the nearest
approach possible to getting over the social diffi-
culty. But sage citizens apprehend a graver diffi-
culty will be thus opened out. Not alone will the
Town Hall be too small, but all the lemonade and
biscuits Melbourne can supply will give out. We
think this apprehension a selfish one. Even if this
should be so, is It not time to give the flmiths a
chance ? Other citizens have guzzled and swilled
long enough, and we say, in all fair play, let the
Smiths in now. Or, without wounding any feeling,
let there be two balls-on« on a Monday night, and
the other us usual. That arraffgWent will just
meet the Smith question,
Mr. Moncure Conway’s lecture on the
“ Progress end Arrest of Religion” was, says our
Melbourne correspondent, the best so far delivered
by him, in the MelboUtn*i Athenaeum. Both in
manner and matter it excelled hlfl previous efforts.
Indeed, the manner of his preceding thi-i* was but
a slight advance on tolerable, and the raster,
though here and there weighty and uniformly
well-proportioned, afforded but an indifferent
means of estimating where his peculiar power lay.
The lecturer is manifestly endowed with power,
and the power is lridfcpena%t of his diction, which
is perfect, and of bis reputation/ wMchls wide and
favourable. Yet in his addressed bn Darwin,
Emerson, and Carlyle, the listener ofteffi fbnnd
himself wondering whence sprang the talent that
made the five hundred or six hundred people
present strain so industriously to catch each word
he dropped. In his treatment of the pre-Darwlmte
period, he may have let fall a hint, but for
the rest he adhered firmly to the purpose
he had fdrffiod. He began as an interpreter of
more or less familiar afftb"rs, and ended as one. Ot
course, Emerson and Carlyle vtKre »ieo interpreters;
but it is one thing to interpret Naturfe, ftwd another
to Interpret Nature’s interpreters—especially *n»en
the interpretation is delivered to many to whom
these thinkers were not wholly unknown person-
ally. and by whom what they wrote was not lightly
retarded. It is true that Mr. Conway had a good
deal to tell with regard to details in the lives ot the
great men, and was, in so far, the purveyor of a
very interesting sort of gossip. It is also true that
the details which he believed he had personally
found out possessed immense importance in his
eyes, and enabled hlnl to Impose something of the
same spirit of rapt wonder on hiS h**arers. But
throughout, those earlier lectures must have left
many who expected great things Conway,
not perhaps dissatisfied, but most certainly in the
presence of unrealised ideals. In the lecture de-
livered on the 8th instant, however, the inter-
preter disappeared, and the critic and ex-
pounder stood in his place. His ideas were not
strikingly original, but his methods cf leading
and commanding them were decidedly so. They
may have partaken a little of the discipline or
Winwood lleade and Professor Clifford. Here and
there a tone or a bint brought one or other of these
workers before us. But they were instinct with a
full measure of a completed individuality. He
found one plot in all the religions of the earth.
However Isolated a section of the human family
was, whatever differences in custoxns may have
prevailed among the race, however distant in time
communities may have been from each other, il
religions existed among them, strip them of their
ceremonials, and the lecturer engaged to point out
one central cardinal point, common to all of them.
This plot was not a startling disco very. But, then,
the lecturer constructed his drama, and, in the five
acts in which he elucidated his position, he man-
aged to show, in tones of such quiet earnest-
ness that the most religious people did not
feel where they were going till it was
all over—that, as human knowledge increased,
the earth was destined to be purged of its
creeds and the sky of its Christ. The fifth act
closed with a hymn to Agnosticism; and while he
sang his hymn, man never more looked up to
heaven for help, or foolishly believed that there
was anything - behind the clouds that was worth
his love. We think Mr. Conway’s plot is unreal.
It takes no count of tremors in the human heart
that all know are there. But the scene-shifting,
as his acts run into each other, the verbal pictures
with which he lines his walls, the dexterous skill
with which he moves his subjects, the calm repose
with which he lets the curtain tali on desolation
the most deplorable, stamp him as a man it is worth
Australia’s while to near. Mr. Conway is not strong
physically, and his lungs do not carry far—so that
those who want to hear much, must go near hand.
He is no lecturer, in the conventional sense of the
word, and is not un orator even to the smallest
extent. But ho is a Talker of a rare sort: audit
only he wl 1 talk often as on the evening under
notice, bie fame will last a long time.
The erfitoT of the Louth Liberal to
“majestically afnwry,- like unto a god.” Say a to ::
“the journalist wtor qMtotes from another, and pro-
1 tends to give the wordb verbatim et literatim , yet-
wilfully and obviously misquotes and misrepre-
is too mean for anything, and a travelling
tinker could afford to spit upon him In disdain.
The Bourko Watchman does this”. .One Clarke, nil
recently employed as cook oil a Darling Itivoir
station, died a few days ago in St. Vincent's Hos-
pital. He was the brother-in-law of General
Arthur, President of the United States.... Tbadeoa
O’Kane has been served with another libel writ —
by Isidor Lissner, a rival candidate for Parliament.
... .Mr. A. L. Morrissott, formerly an Inspector of
Queensland police, and now a Crown Lands Comj-
missioner, has set out from Cooktown with Mr. vf -
A. Clarke to endeavour to unravel thp mystery sur-
rounding the fate of the late Mr. Walter D.
Clarke Archibald Forbes, we learn by cables
has published an essay upon the social character-
istics of the Australian people. Their mpst as-
tonishing trait, he remarks, Is the patience, fosajr
nothing of the eagerness, with which they listen to
the Gatherings of bumptious dragoons —
However unpopular ex-judge Meymott may hare
been lit Ms judicial capacity, his strongest oppo-
nents will f«gret to learn that in his old age he has,
in addition to being bereft of his judgeship, been
left to the pangs of wldowerhood, with a young
family to care for. Mrs. Meymott died at Bthef-
stone, Murrurundi, on the morning of tho Isti
Instant, in her 39th year....An Araluen man sug-
gests that the peculiar sunsets lately puzzling
astronomical tyros wore caused by the heavens
blushing at the line, “ Description all thou beg-
garest, in Bladen’s last contribution to the Down
anW GtnWTRUE Shortly after landing in England
from N/A, aw Archdeacon thought he recognised
a friend io front of him on a railway station* and!
thinking to stfrpriise him playfully “lifted ’ hlw
handkerchief cirt of a tail pocket. Instantly pt
policeman handled hhu. He explained that he w«e»
Archdeacon M. from I9.&, having some fun.
“Won’t do,” paid the bobby grimly. “Ask tho
gentleman/’ said tho Archdeacon; when, on turn-
ing round, he discovered to hie terror, that the
supposed friend was a total stranger. It was only
by sending to Bishop Selwyn that the joking Arch-
deacon got off. .. Alfred M’Laren, of Ballarat,
committer! suicide on board the steamer Cheviot,
during the voyage between Sydney and Melbourne-
M’Laren, ton years ago, was a very well-knowm
man. Of splendid physique, a good boxer, and the*
1 possessor of a glorious and well-trained voice, he*
was envied by many in and out of his own walk off
life. Latterly he had gone down tho hill—as usual,
there was a woman in the case. As usual, also, the
“ wine that maketh glad tho heart of man,” was a
factor in the causes which steeped in bitterness
the last days of “Aif. M’Laren.” Here’s a
conundrum;—How many “proudest days” has
Dan O’Connor had, at present, in this life ?
• • •
The Duke of Saxe-Doburg-Gotha means to
publish his memoirs. They are expected to bei
i chokeful of piquant scandals, as the serene Ernestt
was» most successful “masher” in bis youth
If iJh Johnson, tho temperance saint, who was ira
N.S. W. a year or so ago, had only abstained Iromt
mashing, a» religiously as he professed to abstain)
from the cup which knocks a fellow over and tints
his nose with the hues of tho ruby, ho wonWn’ti
be now the sorry spectacle be is to gods and m» —
a temperance boss bowled out in Intemperate be-
haviour.


Tlie Kelia/tele Bug'g'ies!
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLAEENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony, ’ a
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars’kcpt well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner tire that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle coal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but It affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze Are, while it Imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas Are.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT : WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF,
BROOKS SEWINGjCQTTONS
o
m
o
m
&
OE mk
£ N\C-
BROOK’S SIX-CORD Y VERY CAREFULLY MADE V BROOK’S PATENT
SOFT COTTON I I GLAC£ THREAD
on I HAND & MACHINE SEWING. I 0 * •
HEW SHOULDER REEL White, Black & all Colours jfe HEW SHOULDER REEL. 9
4
James MART21W& copy
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
The BICYCLE and TRICYCLE DEPOT of New South Wales.
Intending purchasers should write to, or call on us, as we keep a full assortment of Bicycles and
Tricycles always on view, and take pleasure In showing and explaining the different points of merit,
and the advantages of our different machines.
Our Bicycles
are unquestion-
ably at the head
of all competi-
tion, and being
specially de-
signed for colo-
nial require-
ments, cannot
fail to give
every purchaser
satisfaction.
Our Tricycles
combine every
advantage
claimed by our
competitors,
and have many
most valuable
improvements
which no other
make possesses.
We CONFIDENTLY and with PLEASURE refer intending purchasers to ANY OP OUR CUSTOMERS
The ONE-MILE CHAMPIONSHIP of NEW SOUTH WALES was won on a SPECIALCTUBBICYCLE
The ONE-MILE CHAMPIONSHIP of ENGLISH B N.G.O. was won on a CLUB RACER.
The Best Four-mile Time Record was made on the CLUB RACER.
The Best Half-mile Time Record was made on the CLUB RACER.
The Best Quarter-mile Time Record was made on the CLUB RACER.
James Martin & Compy., 389 George-street, Sydney.
DR. J. SIMMS, the unrivalled Physiognomist
and Popular Speaker, by many urgent re-
auests, will deliver a short course of his splendidly
lustrated and amusing lectures on Practical and
Scientific Physiognomy at Protestant Hall, com-
mencing with a grand opening lecture on "Faces
and Noses,” on THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
October 18, at 8, continuing 19, 22, 38,25,26 October.
Admission—Is. and 2s. Course ticket, 7s. 6d. and
15s. Entertaining public character readings at the
close of every lecture.
PHYSIOGNOMICAL CHARTS-Daily, from 9
a.m. to 5 p.m., during the Lecture Course, Dr.
Simms will be in waiting at the private ante-room
of the Protestant Hall, in order to supply the
public with his large Physiognomical Charts, 240
pages, accurately marked to Indicate the Intellec-
tual, Social, and Moral traits of applicants, their
state of health, the occupations for which Nature
has adapted them, and the character of persons
they should choose for a life companion. Thou-
sands of men and women in Great Britain and
America are to-day reaping the benefits of a con-
sultation with Dr. Simms. To follow his profes-
sional advice communicated orally and by means of
his Charts, is to pursue the path of virtue, happi-
ness, and worldly success. All consultations are
strictly private.
“ The lineaments of the body do disclose the dis-
position and Inclinations of the mind”—Lord
Bacon, “ Of the Advancement of Learning,” Book
ii... We arrive at knowledge of man by studying
the features of the face.”—Bacon. “The wise and
the good seek to know themselves.” . . “ For by
his face, straight shall you know his heart.” —
Shakespeare. "Let the physiognomist examine
his features.”—Pope. “There is nothing truer
than physiognomy taken in connnection with
manners.” —Dickens. “Every act of the man
Inscribes itself in the memories of its fellows and
in his own manners and face.”—Emerson.
BRITISH PRESS.—" Dr. Simms is known as a
most skilled practical physiognomist.”—Pictorial
World, London. “The author is a true physiog-
nomist, and is known as one of the most interest-
ing popular lecturers we have.”—Human Nature,
London. “ Will amuse, instruct, and enlighten the
mind, and purify the affections.”—The Rock (a
religious paper), London. “ In describing charac-
ter from the form and face Dr. Simms stands un-
equalled in the world.”—The Free West, London.
“Dr. J. Simms, the well-known eloquent and
amusing lecturer. The hall was crowded to ex-
cess; his address was amusing, and was well re-
ceived by the audience.”—The Scotsman. Edin-
burgh. “ Dr. Simms reads character and diseases
from faces “as though they were open books.”—
The Times.
O
P E R A
H O U
£
Lessee Mr. W. J. Wilson
Sub-Lessee Slg. E. Majeroni
Acting Business Manager.. Mr. 8. Genese
Positively Last Two Nights Polk’s Comedy Com-
pany, previous to departure for New Zealand.
LAST NIGHTS of the now successful production,
THE AMERICAN.
POLK as POLK
Polk CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS BRIGHT Polk
his Latest and Best Original Creation.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19,
LAST NIGHT OF THE SEASON.
FAREWELL BENEFIT of
Mr. and Mrs. POLK.
Private Boxes, £2 2s ; Dress Circle, 5s; Stalls, 3s,
PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Box office now open at Huenerbein’s, 411 Geo.-st.
Tickets for sale at Roberts’s, adjoining Theatre.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrote.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8,
BLAND HOLT’S TRULY GIGANTIC
DRAMATIC COMBINATION,
In the grand Druly-lane (London) Success of 1882,
plucR, pluck,
PLUCK
A STORY OF £50,000.
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
G
A I E T Y
THEATRE
Lessee and Manager .. .. Mr. F. E. Hlscocks.
ANOTHER GRKAT TRIUMPH ACHIEVED.
Houses crowded from lloor to ceiling to witness
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and
SPECIALITY UNION
in their New Programme.
Admission—Orchestra chairs, 4s. ; stalls, 3s. :
circle, 2s.; pit, Is. Carriages at 10.20.
C. A. MADDICK, Secretary.
In preparation, “NOAH’S ARK.”
C A D E M Y O F MUSIC.
SATURDAY,'20th OCTOBER.
FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY OP SHAKESPEARE’S
SEVEN AGES OP MAN I
Illustrated by
CHARLES DICKENS !
The various characters sustained by
JOHN L. HALL,
JOHN L. HALL, Jun.,
Master HARRY HALL,
and
Miss JESSIE GRAY,
For further particulars, see programmes and
advertisements.
Waxworks and glassblowers now
open, opposite the Central Police Court, S
doors from Royal Arcade, Qeorge-street. One of
the largest and most artistic exhibitions of Wax-
works and Glassblowing over seen in Sydney, with
nil the latest novelties, including the Phoenix Park
murderers, and a host of other figures. Admission,
Is ; children half-price.
EDUCATIONAL.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS instructs in VOICE
BUILDING, ELOCUTION, PUBLIC and
LOUR READINGS. Class at SYDNEY
7CHOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m.; and at
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 36, Thursday, 3 p.m.,
Wednesday, 8 p.m. (Ladles and Gentlemen).
Visitors invited.
Private Lessons, for Ladies or Gentlemen,
64 HUNTER STREET, opposite Ellzabeth-etreet.
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
LET from 5th November next. Terms on
I application to Thos. Sktbight, care of
Elvy and Co., 320 George-street, Sydney ; or the
Undersigned,
JAMBS B, HICK1E,
Brisbane.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every week.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every week.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
Bunlnyong .. 3000 Geelong
Barrabool
Burwah
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
♦Gabo..
♦Balmain
♦ To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
1000 Kellawarra ..
1000 Konoowarra
Leura ..
Moreton
Rodondo
You Yangs ..
1500
500
400
3000
600
500
000
1500
1500
600
1300
700
£20,000
To be distributed on the
Melbourne Cup, 1883,
To be run on November 6th.
13T* ALL PRIZES 11 NO BLANKS !!!
“THE MELBOURNE TURF CLUB”
Desire to inform the Sporting Public that they
have made arrangements for holding a Mammoth
Sweep on the forthcoming Melbourne Cup, which
for Novelty, Fidelity, and Advantage has no equal
in Australia.
Capital £20,000 in 20,000 Shares of £1 Each.
First Horse ..
Second „
Third „ ...
Starters Divide
Non-starters „
£8000
1000
1000
1000
10001
4 Prizes of £500 £200
8 „ 250 300
10 200 200
20 „ 100 200
Total £15,000
The remaining £5000 will be employed by the
Club in making a book on the Cup and other races,
that is, laying and taking the odds by a new system,
the success of which has been practically proved
It is estimated that the profits accruing from this
source will range from £5000 to £15,000, the whole
of which, both capital and profits, will be equally
divided amongst subscribers who were unsuccess-
ful in drawing either a horse or a prize in the
Mammoth Sweep. Each Subscriber will be sure of
obtaining a Prize, be it large or small. The Pro-
moters of the M. T. C. are well-known sporting
gentlemen, and guarantee the above to be a boniu
fida affair in every particular. Ten per cent, com-
mission deducted from all winnings. Drawing to
take place on October 28th. Results posted imme-
diately after. Subscribers who wish to be present,
will please notify us in time. Add 3d. for reply ami
result. Address—
THOMAS BENTLEY, Secty.
M. T. C., Melbourne.
Fullerton’s Family Medical
Guide,
plain directions for every case.
_y_T_.thpjnewly-dlscovered REMEDY for GOUT,’
Also,
RHEUMATISM, and' NEURALGIA
Edition, revised, 12s. 6d. ; by post, 14s.
Fourth
Published by
W. MADDOCK, 381 G EORGE-8TREET.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 13th October, 1883.
Tenders for public works and sup-
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazf.tte, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may bo in attendance w hen the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly .complied
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Cases of Books, Apparatus, &c.,
Chemical Department, Sydney
University.
Extension of Breakwater, Mo-
ruya
Erection of Police ByJIdipgs,
Ironbarks, and for the Re-
moval and Re-erection at that
place of Court-house and
Lock-up, Stoney Creek
Erection of Police Quarters,
Qulrindl.
Bridge over Albion Creek, road
Tinonee to Eedbank.
Purchase of Old Iron, &c., Dar-
llnghurst Gaol.
Buffalo - road, Field of Mars
Common, Contract 28m.
Construction of Works, 3rd Sec-
tion Illawarra Railway.
Renting Refreshment - room,
Penrith Railway Station
Erection of Court-house and
Lock-up, Candelo.
Erection of Shed, Public Wharf,
Bellinger River.
Erection of Gaol, Bathurst.
Repairs, &c.. Post and Tele-
graph Office, Inverell.
Punts for Colo and Sackville
Reach, Hawkesbury Riyer.
Punt for Darkwater, Bel more
River.
Bridge over Nine Mile Creek,
near Bingera.
Bridge over Cockburn River, at
Wilson’s Crossing.
Bridge over Jounama Creek,
road Tumut to Kiandra.
Supply of Iron, Railway De-
ment, 1884.
Supply of Blue Metal, Roads
Department, 1884.
Supply of Rolling Stock, Rail-'
way Department.
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Ralls.
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received 'a t
this office.
23rd October,
at U o’clock.
30th October,
at 11 o’clock.
18th December,
at 11 o’clock.
10th February,
1885.
at 11 o’clock.
F. A, WRIGHT.
T
HOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WARJ
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor,
STL. RYAN, Agent.


BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
ieok, mm, mm Hum,
397 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
kx;i>es.
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
run ps.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines tor both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Vloughs, Harrows. Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horde
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Com and Maize Crushers and Shellers, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
COiACH Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnished, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpaeks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine. Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, N*ils, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO.,
387 George Street, Sydney.
TRICYCLES ! BICYCLES ! TRICYCLES I
THE 8PARKBROOK
NATIONAL
Tricycle,
The only perfect Double Driver, being
fitted with the
Patent Differential Double
Driving Gear,
Is the PRETTIEST, the NEATEST, the
NEWEST, the BEST,
Tric3rcl©;|
Has Ball Bearings to all WHEELS and
PEDALS, and is, from Its Safety
and Ease of Working,
Especially Adapted to Ladies’ Um.
The English Field, of 2nd June. 1883, says:— “The SPARK BROOK NATIONAL TRICYCLE is
driven by a gearing which form* one of the most clever and ingenious contrivances we have yet seen used
for this purpose. Its practical success is attributable to its simplicity. In its behaviour on the road it
fully realised our expectations, both in ease of propulsion and the facility with which it can he guided
and controlled
PRICE LISTS, OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, TESTIMONIALS, &c„
ON APPLICATION TO
T0ZEE £ CO., Silt Agents, 2G7 Deorge CM,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. CK OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346,
ALCOCK&CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS :
Dims 11 ui ra,
375 George-st., Sydney.
tsr TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
EVERY
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marstou’s New Work
Describing how sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Mobility.
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, India*
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
' Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS. AND IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
VIGOtt, HEALTH A MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FEEE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 ELIZABETH ST., 87BM1Y.
THE NEW LAND BILL.
MOW READY FOR SALE-" A Bill to regulate
the Alienation and Management of Crown
Lands and for other purposes.’’ Price, Is. 6d.; by
Post, Is. 9d.
THOS. RICHARDS,
G overnment Printer,
Government Printing Office,
Sydney, 13th October, 1883.
Don’t Die in the House.—“Rough on Rats”
clears outirats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
flies, ants, Insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
'theatre Royad—“ Pluck.” p. 8.
hpera House—" The American ” lb.
gaiety Theatre—Federal Minstrels ib.
ACAPEMY or Music—“Seven Ages of Man ”.. ib.
At the Opera House, the I'oiks produced,
qnturday night, “ The American.” This comedy-
Hraina is in four acts. There is nothing very new
in the construction of this play, but it
aprves to show the versatility of Mr. Polk and the
cipvant costumes of his accomplished wife (Mrs.
Tiilia A. Polk). The pleasantries, trials, and re-
verses of the comedy-drama commence in Nevada,
where Lady Alice Egerton’s brother, Lord Egerton,
is dramatically murdered by an old College chum
who owes him a grudge. Christopher Columbus
Bright (Mr. Polk), a kind-hearted, voluble Yankee
miner, is close at hand, and appearing on the scene
vows that he will yet trace the diabolical one—
who has, of course, decamped—and bring him
fo justice. We then meet Mr. Christopher
Columbus Bright Polk in England, at the residence
of the Egertons. He is struck with the beauty of
Tadv Alice, and having amassed a large fortune,
he shows by many s>gns and glances the dawg he
is and pops the question. Mamma Egerton thinks
the American decidedly common. However, there
is in the family circle a gentleman by name Castle,
simposed to be a rich broker, and who possesses a
hill that bears the signature of Lord Reginald
Werton, another brother, and which turns out to
ho a forgery, from the hand of Captain Vereker,
the betrothed of Lady Alice’s sister. Castle
of course has Vereker in his power, and
demands for his silence Lady Alice’s hand
%ven though it be without her heart.
Persecuted and bowed down with grief and
"l oe [Pull up.—Ed. B.]—CC.B.P. comes to
the rescue. He folds his arms quietly, methodically
drops his head on to his chest, twists his eye-balls
all manner of ways, looks under his lids, and that’s
sufficient I Yes, that’s quite plenty to assure
r 0 B.P. that Castle is no other than Gentleman
Tack (his title in the mines of Nevada), the mur-
derer of Lady Alice’s brother. Consternation, joy,
miss and ecstacy fill the hearts of all concerned
mf course, the villain left out). The stately
Countess of Egerton, who has snubbed C.C.B.P.
unmercifully through three whole acts, on hearing
of his Vanderbiltian wealth, forgives his audacity,
impudence, and ignorance, and, with open arms,
accepts him as her daughter’s hubby; the diaboli-
cal one is handed over to his deserts, and all ends
quite comfortably.
• • •
Mr. Polk is very droll and excruciatingly
humorous as Christopher C. Bright, and especially
when he interrogates the Countess Egerton as to
ihe value of the ancient family portraits. Mrs.
Polk, as Lady Alice Egerton, looked charming, and
makes a great deal out of a poor part. Mrs.
Brver, as the Countess Egerton, is stately, and
bears herself with becoming dignity when rudely
anproached by the uncouth American. The Lady
Edith of Miss Lily Bryer, and the Johnson
(ladies’ maid) of Miss Ethel Adele, are carefully
'layed. Mr. Harry Power, as Sellers, the
butler, created much merriment. The Celes-
tial Wau Hung, of Mr. Lester, is decidedly
amusing, though his accent is a mixture of Anglo-
Franco-Germanic-Dutch and Irish-Chlnese. Mr.
A W. Boothman plays the villain, Castle, with
his mind and soul saturated in the bloodthirsty
lines he gives forth; and, strange to say, we felt
ouite happy when we contemplated the distance
between our seat in the dress circle and Mr. B.
Messif. Hairy K. Emmett, Robert Vernon, and
Henry Stonebam, have but small parts, but what
they do they do well. To-morrow night (Friday)
Mr and Mrs. Polk will take a farewell benefit,
when we hope to see the Opera House crowded.
* * * *
Bland Holt never felt more happy in his
life His hair is taking to curl through the enorm-
ous success of Pluck ; his walk is more agile than
usual - he stands outside Eastway s every morning
between 8 and 9 o’clock to dispense charity to his
needy brethren ; and another big Theatre Royal
pic-nlc is to take place, tor which great prepara-
tions are being made. We are fasting.
* ♦ * •
Wyhert Reeve opens at the Opera House
on Saturday nie-ht with the late Andrew Halli-
dav’s comedy “For Love or Money.” As we have
a particular weakness frrboth these luxuries, we
will be there.
« * * *
On Saturday night ihe W.G.M. Royal
Comic Opera Company make a start at the Royal
with “Tambour Major ” Is this one of the start-
ling novelties recently brought from home by
Garner?
* * *
The run of comic opera will extend over
two months, and during that “ brief term will be
revived in rapid succession the entire repertoire
of this the premier company of Australia—‘ Tam-
bour Major,’ ‘Pirates of Penzance,’ ‘Pinafore,
‘Patience,’ ‘ Mascotte,’ ‘Olivette, and Les Cloches
de Corneville,”’ vide advertisement. All doubts
may now be set at rest. The entire repertoire of
the “premier company of Australia’ has been
published. Folk may now ask “What about
‘Estrella’ and ‘lolanthe?’ They are not in the
entire repertoire : “ Whose got 'em —Dunning ?
* * * *
George Darrell opens at the Opera House
22nd December, in his own original Australian
drama, “ The Sunny South.” This play ran for six
weeks at the Opera House. Melbourne, and George
Intends introducing it to a Sydney audience with
new scenery and a specially selected company. The
“Sunny South” deals entirely with colonial inci-
dents and adventures.
4- * * *
■ it is not true that Johnny Wallace has
joined A. T, Dunning’s combination. He will be
here and show himself in “ Tambour ” on Saturday
night. Neither is it true that “‘Freedom is a
great success at Drury Lane.” We receive cables
from London quite as often as the Echo.
* * * *
Johnny Gingah Hall, with his charming
wife, is about to open the Academy of Music in
an entertainment entitled “ The Seven Ages.
Herrmann, the ventriloquist, is running a diorama
with the nid of gifts, and the building of another
theatre is on the tapis.
* * * *
We have just thought of it in time. Dr.
Simms is delivering a course of lectures on
“ Character” at the Protestant Hall. If we had any
character we should have gone to hear him. But
we haven’t, or we should have been dead long ago
Only Companions of Michael and George can
afford to have character and live in these days.
Dr. Simms advertises that he will tell anyone who
calls upon him “ the kind of person they should
choose for a life companion.’’ This also is no use
to us. We don’t want a life-companion ; and if we
did—well, we should not choose Michael or George.
But this need not prejudice others from going to
hear Dr. Simms.
* * * *
And now what more have we to say about
the Royal? Not much; exceptthat it will not be with
unfeigned regret that we shall see the end of the
reign of realistic drama. Even we are a trifle tired
of seeing property trains smashed, property-
prisons blown up, and property ships wrecked
every night. What we want now is something-
idyllic and peaceful—something that will both
elevate the morals and soothe the nerves. We feel
(and we say it with sorrow) that we have
degenerated slowly but surely since these sensa-
tional dramas were put upon the Sydney stage.
We used to go home after seeing a play at the old
Morgue (dear old Dusthole I) thrilling in every vein
with a noble generosity of spirit caught from the
splendid sentiments of the play and give as much as
twopence to a blind man without waiting for his
blessing. That was in the good old days of J. B.
Howe and Keogh and Steele. But now, when we
go home, we are filled with felonious intentions
upon the pillar-boxes, and charged with mur-
derous designs upon the first-floor lodger, who is
credited by the other boardex-s with the posssseion
ot secret wealth acquired when he was a church-
warden. It is plain, therefore, that the drama is
to blame. What we like is a play that combines
light amusement with a lofty tone of moral teach-
ing. Give us a gift show or a circus, and we feel
virtuous. But give us a ballet and we are
blessed.
* * * *
Something seems to have disagreed with
Bobby Byrne’s poet, or else he has constituted
himself of late a student ot Sladen. As an intro-
duction to “Political Straws,” he sings In the fol-
lowing dulcet strain
“ Babble, babble, babble, babble.
To the ever changing rabble,
Twaddle, twaddle, twaddle, twaddle,
Masses are but made to coddle.”
The next thing that inspires this gifted creature is
the departure of a certain “prominent young
actress.” To her he casts aside the lightsome
lyre, and bids the muse—
“ Bring forth the melancholy mandolin,
Until I blub up
The weeping sentiments concealed therein,
And ease its hubbub.”
The young lady, by the way, is, it seems, equally a
native ot Brisbane as Miss Pomeroy is of Sand-
hurst. It is recorded of her that, on her last ap-
pearance in the city where the author of the above
effusions is allowed to linger, she, on being pre-
sented with a locket or some white mice, or some-
thing, stepped gracefully forward, and, emulating
the example ot Louise P., delivered the following
address, expressly written for her by the cook of
the Johnsonian Club:—
I’ve been in many lands, and yet there is
No land so dear to me, kind friends, as this!
My thoughts go back, and, with my fancy suit,
And lo, l m sleeping in my father’s boot.
Rocked by the breezes cool, and salt, and free,
That lap down Queen-street from the Sandgate Sea
[Applause.]
And years rolled on e’er I donned lace or silk—
Behold me, then, each morn, take in the milk,
The fire light, and, when the Are was bad,
Be jawed by mamma, and be spanked by dad!
Sweet raera’ries—oh, to leave makes me repine—
Dear tropic paradise, my heart is thine.
[Vociferous cheering.]
* * * *
Agnes Consuelo came out at the Comedy
Theatre in Violet Cameron’s part, under the
tutorial auspices, it seems, not of Mr. Alfred Moul,
but of Mr. George Roe, band-sergeant of the
Grenadier Guards. Most of the London papers
merely remark that Agues “ essayed ” the part,
which seems to us praise even too faint to damn.
In “Rip,” in which Miss C. “essays” the part ot
Alice, there plays a young lady who calls herself
“ Gladys Cramer.” rthe is reported to bo—like the
Captain of the Mantelpiece’s daughter—" promised
to an earl,” and therefore may fairly be considered
a crime de la Cramer. And, while on beauty, of the
everlasting Lillian Russell, the Argonaut says :—
“I presume that all these stories, taken together,
give us the truth. Miss Russell has a very pretty
lace ; but her figure is not graceful, and there are
reasons” herewestop. If we wentmuch further
than this, It would almost amount to a personality.
You can’t beat the Americans for cheek, anyhow.
Why Baraum got a £1000 ad. for nothing out of Tom
Thumb’s funeral, by sending the following wire
(which was flashed all over the States) to poor little
Tom’s disconsolate widow “ Dear Lavlnia, your-
self and family have my warmest sympathies.
Death is as much a part of the Divine plan as birth.
The Heavenly Father overcomes evil with good.
His will be done.” This is very pretty sentiment,
indeed, but as Barnum is “the Prince of Hum-
bugs,” it’s very likely that ho d send exactly the
same sort of a message to the widow of his blue
monkey should that azure Simian lake it into
his head to shuffle off suddenly. And we may as
well follow this up with another American item.
It is about Stephen Fiske, and appears in De-
troit Chaff:—“As an evidence of his aptitude
for literary work, it may bn mentioned that
befote Chat les Wyndham left for San Francisco
ho came to Fiske for a play. There was
some talk between the two as to the
kind of a comedy wanted, and Stephen made
a note of it. He thought no more about Qio
matter until three weeks ago, when Wyndham,
having made a failure with * Fourteen Days’ In
San Francisco, telegraphed Fiske: ‘Send manu-
script of new play to Salt Lake.” This was on a
Friday, and on Wednesday the first act of the new
comedy went forward to Salt Lake.’ The second
act followed in two days, and in three more the
play was finished. I hope it will bo agreat success.
Wyndham writes that ha is more than pleased with
it.” Those who know Fiske as we do will laugh at
this. At least, not the religious ones. They will
cry—or ought to. And anyone who likes can weep
over this stanza of Clement Scott’s poem, recited
at the Irving banquet:—
“ We shall hear over waste of wild waters, ray
brother,
The glad notes of welcome from hearts that
are true.
And find In its chorus the praise of another
Who shares now, as ever, your triumphs with
youl”
The American papers throw mud at this, and want
to know—as a good many other people do—
“Where’s Mrs. Irving?"
♦ * * *
Ain’t-it-lovely Teddy Davis is now in
Scotland. When Teddy was in Adelaide all the
papers came out with pathetic pars, to the effect
that he had bought a tea-gardens, and was going
to leave his collar-bones amongst them; and
immediately after this he took the Commercial
Hotel—a little rookery near the Register office,
in Grenfell-street. The dinner there was a weird
and awful spectacle. The long table was always
full—full of “ disengaged” pros.—people who
couldn’t “get away;” and whose unceasing inspec-
tion of public buildings gave them appetities of a
Blunderborean nature. Teddy used to preside
over the corned beef, and Mrs. D. over the hash.
Then whiU everybody was cramming their spoons
into their mouths to prevent themselves shriek-
ing out loud for you, the lady at the head
of the table would say—totally regardless of the
professional “push “ There, try this, dear. Ain’t
it lovely, Teddy ? I made it myself.” By-and-by
the town got to sing this, and then Teddy left.
Funny reminiscences these, but droller yet is a
cartoon of “ Mr. Joseph Pickersgill, of the Great (!)
Mammoth Pantascope, in Christchurch Society.
Josh is there depicted as a simpering young man
with a square jaw, and his hair reminds us of the
immortal poem commencing—
“There was a little girl
Who had a little curl
Right in trie middle of her forehead.”
The show is only doing show-so—we mean so-so—
Josh wisely mingling a distribution of sewing-
machines with his “ well-known eloquence."
# ♦ ♦ *
Last night, too late for notice, Dave Clyne
readied up the Lotus Club at the ’Cademy o’ Moosic
—we are quoting Billy Wilson—and they gave
“Alone” and “ Timothy to the Rescue’’—David,
of course, doing Colonel Chalice in the first piece,
and treating the widow to the “ Monarch’s Mug.”
The performance is said to be “ in aid of the
funds,” from which we gather that Mr. Weller’s
friends, the “redooced counsels,” must be in a bad
way. We shall, of course, have a lot to say about
this performance next week, for, having received
tickets from the secretary, we could not, with
courtesy, Dave Clyne the invitation.


BRIEF MENTION.
Frightful wether in the West. 20,000 dead.
During the trial, at Adelaide, of Mah Poo,
charged with sending a compatriot to the Celestial
City before his time, one of the jurors suddenly
went mad, “owing to over-prossuro on his brain.”
Servo him right. No man with a brain has any
business in a jury-box.
Hero's another row amongst the clergy.
Last Sunday evening, at St. John’s Presbyterian
Church, Paddington, the Rev. J. P. Dickson
preached on “ The Devil in the Church,” and now
nine-tenths of his fellow-workers are poking their
fists in his face, and eagerly asking “Is it I, Dick-
son; is it I ?”
The Victorian Education Commission has
now been sitting nearly two years. The cost to the
country up to the present time is £3490, and yet all
the commission is thoroughly certain of to-day is
that Majah Smith’s boots weigh 41b. 7oz. each, and
that the present fashion in young ladies’ clothes is
highly calculated to spare the rod and to spoil the
girls.
The people at Suburhville are becoming
high-toned. A man gets into the building society
for a two-storey house with green shutters and a
brass door-plate, and he labels it “The Copse,”
when it is as much like a copse as a cat is like a
ramrod. Similarly, another miscreant goes on tick
for about seven barrowful of bricks, and calls It
“Montmorenclville.” Another party hides a three-
roomer behind a tree, and dubs it “The Wilder-
ness.” Fifty pounds worth of rubble, cement, and
galvanised Iron will produce a “ Pagethurst.” We
are keeping up with the times, however, for tho
gin-case our dog lives in is assertively painted
n Osborne.”
At Ashburton (N.Z.), the owner of a stud
sire had his horse-cards printed with a very neat
and chaste design, resembling a ball programme,
being on good oard-board and bound down tho
back with red. These cards wore distributed
freely among the bucolic population, and at a local
“ hop,” lately held in the township, one gentleman
from the rural districts, who bad allowed his ten-
dency to drink people’s health to overcome his
mental and visual powers, was observed at inter-
vals during the evening solemnly jotting down
between the boards of tho entire “Quaraby’s”
pedigree card tho names of tho fair ladles whose
hands for certain quadrilles he had been fortunate
enough to secure.
politicians, who (to quote poor Walter Cooper)
“sivo their souls in Pitt-street, and tlieir
money in King-street,” might also have their
metal passes taken from them, and be obliged
to pay their fares, like the martyred C.M.G.’s, for
instance. Yes, it’s quite evident that the church Is
in danger from this last audacious manoeuvre of
Free-thinkers—offering to pay their tram fares
in coin of the realm. So it is time the brethren of
tho L.O.L. hurried along with the faggotsand stake
for Lacy. The Devil will, of course, get his soul to
roast, and it’s hard lines if the brethren are not let
cook tho body—a privilege always under similar
circumstances conceded to our pious ancestors.
The puhhcnns of a certain K.S.W. bush
township are points ahead of their metropolitan
confreres. When they see a fair prospect of a busy
Sunday trade they lend the local “bobbies” a
“trap” and some young ladles to go picnicing.
The “foorce” returns to find the town is “tight.”
. . . It was at the same Southern border
city that a shearer was passing through the
‘ lambing-down” process. As his cheque went
down, the pub’ican’s hauteur wont up. until one
Sunday afternoon he was refused a drink. Then
“ Ginx ” applied to the police, and—It might have
been under their direction—returning to the pub.,
tendered the money for a beaker. He might have
succeeded had not the observant victualler re-
We notice with pleasure that Sir John
"Robertson and Dan O'Connor have attended the
*• Missus’ Mishun.” It was neither of these gentle-
men, however, who said, on coming out, that
“the roseate old woman would make a blank sight
better Member than half of those at present in the
vermilion house.” Certainly not!
Mary Gallagher was brought up at the Fitz-
roy Court Melb. the other day for Indulging in con-
traband language in the public street. It did not
occur to the Bench to ask Mary if she had enough
of “the common jaw” for the purposes of her
existence. The truth was, she hadn’t. Her voca-
bulary was miserably stinted, and it wasn’t
through badness of disposition the drabbled
woman dealt in the articles complained of, so
much as through not having mastered a dictionary
of synonyms. When she found bow easily she
could have expressed the same ideas in unobjec-
tionable phraseology, she was sorrowfully moved.
“Five pounds,” said his Worship, “or two months.”
Of course it was the two months. But Mary
travelled up and down through the crannies of her
brain to collect as many words of a decent kind as
would convey her opinion of the verdict. “ 1 thank
yer Washup, was the result. “Hold,” cried his
Worship,” “ bring the woman back. I now fine
you £10 lor insulting the Bench. lu default, three
months.” And poor mystified Mary was carried
away believing that the most unseemly thing the
human lips can utter is “ I thank yer!”
A jovial N Z. J.P. recently got drunk in
the company of some miners and shepherds who
were having a holiday in the township. One of the
miners became very disorderly, and had to be
locked up for his <wn and the public safety. On
being brought before his Worship next morning,
he denied Having been drunk. “Have you any
witness ?” asked the J.P. “Yes, I have you,” said
the culprit; “you were drinking with me all the
time, and you know I was quite as sober as you
were yourself.” “Very well, said the Justice, “ I
think I remember: and, if that is all you have to
say for yourself, I will just fine you ten shillings
this time. But I strongly adv.se you to keep better
company next time you visit this town.”
The Protestant Standard has discovered
another rock ahead. It observes that the other
day Mr. George Lacy, a noted freethinker, ten-
dered a five-shilling piece to pay his tram-fare to
Newtown, and then actually had the audacity to
complain because the guard went out of his way
to collect a sufficient number of pennies and half-
pence to give him bis change in copper, and, atthe
same time, to insolently tell him that he should
have had a ticket. “ This is what we may expect
if free-thought gels the upper hand,” says the
Howl. No doubt of it. Wen will not only begin
offering crowns to tram conductors, but they may
eventually become so depraved as to go offering
20s. in the £ to their creditors. Snufflebusting
marked a bobby crawling through the back-yard
fence. The interest the disappointed officer takes
in that public-house as each Sabbath dawns is
touching . . .
Thus the Melbourne Herald upon the
Victorian Police: “ The force is so utterly demora-
lised that it has become a bye-word and a reproach;
a something to be scoffed at, and, metaphorically,
spat uprtn; a perfect sink or iniquity and corrup-
tion, calling trumpet-tongued for Immediate and
thorough reformation.” Think of that! The
stately “bobby” is a perfect “sink,” and ought
to be spat upon. A Melbourne lady did spit upon
one, the other day, in ti e course of conversation—
“ fourteen days ’’—curtain:
Address to “Robert.”
Robert, in thy coat of blue,
Prythee, are these statements true;
Is thy manner, so abrupt,
Fostered by a heart corrupt—
Ought the man you love to sit upon
Your appalling form to spit upon ?
At Oxford, near Christchurch (N.Z.), a
young woman recently 7 left the R.C. Church and
joined the Baptists. Itvaa decided that the con-
vert should be duly baptised in a river adjacent,
which comes direct, and with a very swift current,
from one of the glaciers of the Southern Alps, a
few miles away. A threat having been made of
Interference by some of the lady’s oo-mHo.i„ ,
the officiating minister called in the aid of 8ts>
police to keep order at the ceremony Sl 0cal
three o’clock on a Sunday afternoon, a em»j ut
five or six hundred people repaired to of
selected for the baptism, and took nn 8pot
minent positions on the river banko * pr °-
the fun. After singing a hymn, rearm. 866
chapter, and offering up a prayer, the m Sf. a
entered the water and the convert followed m 01,
latter was a. craft of considerable size ana Tae
width of beam, while the parson was a srm>ii ?reat
who looked poorly in the water, the tetmfori? an *
of which did not seem to agree with lm£ atl i re
braced himself, however, to the task of imm»_,” 9
the ’vert, but this was evidently a bigger rSSS? 1 *
than he thought it was. He had to make «2£ ract
unsuccessful attempts before he succeeded 1 **
once or twice lost his footing and got immersAdi,? n,i
self Instead. Bach unsuccessful effort on hi= ~ *
was greeted with yells of delight and sorenl£ ar i
laughter from the joyful spectators whi?l°]
never seen anything half so good before fA,
money. The best of the job however lanr?
after getting her under, the poor parson
excited, and bis teeth chattered so violently
the cold, that he cither forgot, or was unnh7
repeat the usual prayer following this perfn 0t °
ance, and the poor woman will have to be ban« J
over again, when the weather gets warmer U86< *
A certain outlying Queensland towns P<
chiefly frequented by bushmen who come „
spend their cheques, has neither a •
A short while ago a drunken man used o .
language, was arrested, and chained up aii ii
there being no lockup in the place. Next ay
culprit was taken to the nearest J.P-. ,° vPr wr ito8 a
miles away, and by him lined. “This, wruw
resident, " may be law, but it isn t justice. j
it would be better for the J.P. to come 8 „. 0 0 ut
with the prisoner than for the to fr -
aud deal with the J.P.” We think so fc>o-looxm,
at the case from the prisoner s standpoint. “ tv
don’t see why a J.P. should be , d r a .^ g K fien usink
miles to interview a gentleman who has d t[m9
cuss-words. When a fellow lives a s
in the bush his mind is apttogeta mflU
in it. Suppose, now, that tbe .9 b8 .tting UP
had offended against the law b J__ ® apondeDt
his grandmother, would , our ®° r I 0 ,ip from
expect the Criminal Court to ® on p,..(libation i*
Rockhampton to try the case? Civ Hz In g
progressing, but slowly, on the''air aD d
local paper, the proprietor of a Mexico, adver-
shanty, who evidently comes f . r0 ™ e consign*
tises that “he is after receiving a
merit of rations, drapery, &c.. all ® rs carriers,
prepared to supply to stations, dren rre g 0 , at
and to all persons travelling on the ar )0U
the most remunerative terms, “rof vie**
have to regard the affair from two points m
THE “BULLETIN” ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE OF THE ART SOCIETY’S EXHIBITION.
f E rK'CV!TACl L
219 Dead Bird
/y#//sf
sue. at / r /yy~#A/y' c *
223 View from Lor.g Kose Point
Portrait of
a Lady
20 Evening
4\ J Wik!,
103 Prize Bull
127 The Lover's Leap
The Os&AfiAfG Or nuA-WGATT
<* young' /7r//s /.
/ A'irtjz - - / 5£* *>n j, <6y ///^c
e*yt*S cti Con%fc/er tfe '*
<-e F&eS y'C' — &r?oS 'bEJ's&'f 3 5.^ c ' ’
C£y faC _ Are^y/r tf '/*><*> C/rp/yy ry C C ifeKL ■ J
— -a
176 Study of Trees, drawn from Nature
s-250 Ah ArfisFa Dream
i!5 A Spring Morning in the BogjL-
118 Old Cottage
148 Sunrise—Foggy Morning
f XoMij- £u*f~y
16J One of the Six Bandied
TM£ AR T/6 T rfArffiSO (Wly Jfy
nyox e to yer
224 A Glimpse of fbe Barbour
5 7 Portrait of a Lady
O Portrait of a gentleman
164 Bolted
151 The Fruit of Australia


One of the best billets on this earth is
that of teacher in a Victorian State School. One
gentleman who serves bis country In this capacity
appears to have been having a real good time of It,
for, during a two-years’ residence in one district,
he was twenty-two times defendant in the police-
court, and still he found time to compound with
his creditors for five shillings In the pound. Then
he was “removed to another school,” doubtless
to give him the opportunity of seeking
“Fresh creditors and shopkeepers new.”
But what a splendid practical training in “ finance”
for the children who enjoy his fostering care!—
240 pence =■ £4 sterling. We prognosticate (and
with considerable confidence, too) a great future
for these little ones—nothing short of company-
promoting. “Childhood,” now adays, Is a much
more festive occupation than it was in our
time: the Victorian schoolboy has a holiday every
tire the “teacher’s at the court,” and rejoices
under the “ inspection ” of a gentleman who goes
Grandfather’s Clock,” the bells of
ftt. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney, have “stopped
short, never to go any more till the old man dies.”
"? a £ I 1 K iT c \ to Vi € L verl What does a church want to
a , In Turkey, a roan shins up
.< n ™ 0 . f ’,£ nd out something equivalent
Oy©z! Ye faithful, come right along
here and say your prayers.” That's all the Turks
™W rc I’u and yet their mosques are filled ten times
better than our cathedrals. Besides, clanging and
ba naJfot a b ® bs ,t° rally up the pious, implies
a , m01,nt of disrespect to the different
W P worship. In Sydney 25,000 work-
mg men, at least, turn out and are at their toll at
six every morning without any warning bell being
rung, because they well know the consequences of
S2i t »i >e,n ?u°? han . d at the ri * ht time. Do the clergy
be ' eve that unless they clang their gongs the
ki 1 sblr n 9 burch Plead on the last day
b K a n le -. a ri leS T ith the clerIc Who didn’t
bang the bolls ? If so, It looks as If the average
lumps of gun metal—a dingdong which In these
days is as unmeaning as the judicial oath. Dean
Cowper, we thank you. WeTe glad you can’t find
the money to ring the bells. Your preaching
doesn t fill the cathedral to overflowing, nor does
it fill the plate. So long ns you can find money' to
buy gaiters, and to otherwise make yourself
pretty, we shall be happy.
Mrs. Pardiggle is abroad, with a vengeance!
This assertion Is Inspired by tho fact that the
Ladies United Evangelistic Association recently
“®lu? jubbting at tho Temperance Hall, ‘ydnev,
a bbe bon - secretary read the annual report,
which commenced as follows : “ tt Is with hearth
felt gratitude to our Master and Lord that we are
spared to render at this time our sixth annual re-
port. Our watchword can still be, ‘Ebenezer’:”
a consigne which, to tho unconverted, would be
perhaps, somewhat suggestive of—“ Walker.” “We
are, says the report, “sorry to relinquish the
iervice held here [the SoUp Kitchen] for so lohg-
and the King of Glory shall come'ln.’” All this
of course, Is very pretty, and very affecting, but
what we want to ask is, whom does it benefit
besides the printer? All the ladles are understood
to be wealthy, and certainly their energy In deli-
vering tracts to cabmen about “How little
Edward stole an apple,” and how “ His first pipe
was his downfall,” Is untiring. Go Into the Infir-
mary, and you will see, all over the walls, placards
bearing the legends “ Knock, and it shall be opened
unto you,” “Seek and ye shall find.” and other
texts of a n at tire that must be exceedingly sooth-
i ? to patients who, in the absence of these ooffin-
label-like pastebonrda, mijrht stand an outside
show of getting well.
Faith in the efficacy of prayer has not yet
died out up Braidwood way. The prayer of the
just, wo are told, avalleth much. Still, a Braid-
his chump.”—
THE TEACHER.
in me a sample
a™ “ en who, by example.
And I thEfv 1 .?* 1 -n improve the infant mind;
be admitted
' T a l a n Wy better fitted
uld bo difficult, indeed, for you to find.
I^haaevi^v,’ the 8im Ple fact is
To “y Practice
Thus r°v»t upon a basis very sound:
That eactl Uttle scholar
man y cab) a “dollar”
Yes: prudence, do the duty of a pound.
i Q «-ann-ln-Irm dy In .®PCctor-Gencral walk-
Jo the couch oT barmaids and taking- flowers
teachers immrtlTi.fi Aspasia, and his
bon that tllieen r^n^i h ? ir 8cholars the Info.ma-
f?«em of state ?dn^/ pak ? acr( ?, WD ’ tLe Victorian
blt Kodlesi! te ducatl0Q w really become a little
man had a far greater dread of losing his billet
than of getting a front seat on Pluto’s hottest
stove. Its all very fine to say “Alas, those
chimes, and to talk about “ the Bells of Shandon,”
abmi fc the curfew tolling the “ knell of parting
day. The church-bells of hydnoy are a nuisance, for
there s hardly one of them that has half as much
music in it as has the average preacher’s voice, or
the average bullock-bell, or the average kerosene-
tin when walloped with the iron-shod heel of the
yokel s boot after a Jamberoo wedding. When
people want to go to church, they go, and as in this
glorious country all grades of society, from the
priest to the policeman on night duty own
watches, the only people who arrive late are those
who don t particularly care to bo early. The sick
man is distracted by the hideous unmeaning
clangour of the parsons’ substitutes for cat-screams
and dog-howls; the tired or lazy man, who, like
ourselves, stays in bed until twelve on his only day
ot , ’ e ®) rest, is dragged from theelysium of dream-
land by the demoniacal dingdong of these sacred
m( ?r e , particularly as one of our members of a
suitable age, &c., volunteered to conduct a weekly
service there. Nevertheless, the management have
not seen fit to grant our request.” It is to be
regretted, of course, that the ministrations of
those good ladies are now withheld from
tho abandoned soup-devourers, but it must be
remembered that these irreligious outcasts are
pretty well preached to by the male element of
holiness, any one of whom wou.d correspond with
Mrs. Pardiggle s description of Mr. Gusher, which
i 8 “fellows He is a very fervid, impassioned
speaker full of fire ! Stationed in a waggon on
this lawn, now, which, from the shape of the land,
is naturally adapted to a public meeting, he would
improve almost any occasion you could mention
for hours and hours ! ” The report closes as fol-
tr.rant, th at tho records of tho
fields, white already to harvest, may Induce
some labourers, unhired, to oorae forth to the work
and join in the grand song, - Lift up your heads, D
ye gates, and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors,
wood poet has a lingering doubt whether the
prayer of all the Braidwood people would av-.ll to
the extent of thirty miles of narrow guage railway
He hasn t expressed an opinion whether they would
he good for that amount of tram-line. He asks
(in the local Dispatch) with a touching simplicity
refreshing- ag ° ° f 8C0,fing ‘ infl dolity, is peculiarly
“ Who knows, if all unite and pray,
A light one may be given ? ”
Our advice to the Braidwood people is this—Direct
?iinb?r* u P pUca toryenergies towards the acqulsl-
tion of Heaven; and try mass meetings, deputations
and banquets, especially banquets. In vour efforts
to obtain a share of the national plunder. Asldng
PS°P le to , Pray fer a railway, recaUs the story
of the Irishman who was asked to pray when the
Mlselss ppi steamer, on which he happened to bl
travelling, burst her boiler. * PravV Is itmwlry
ye d have me—losin’ me tolme whin I COuhftouOb,
the ground wid a sixtoen-fut poler 0U0U
Playing at Dolls—Melanesian Bazaar;
OK.
Black versus White.


KING TAWHTAO.
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal
Remedies (Registered).
Trade mark—' 1 King Tawhiao.
The n.z. herbal extract
can be administered to Infants of the most
tender age, and to all other patients, however weak
and delicate, with perfect safety and certainty of
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND EARLY CURE.
THE N.Z, HERBAL REMEDIES
are made solely
FROM HERBS, SHRUBS, AND BARK,
indigenous to New Zealand only,
and NO DRUGS hitherto known to the medical
world are contained in the above medicines.
The N.Z. Herbal Extract cures ABSOLUTELY
Dysentery, Diarrhoea, Choleratlc Dianhoea, and
Cholera, as NO OTHER medicine yet known to
the world can do. It CURES, equally well, chronic
or acute cases of the WORST kinds, and gives
INSTANTANEOUS RELIEF in every case.
From Capt. Cromarty, U.S.S. “ Penguin.”
Auckland, June 19th, 1883.
Dear Sir,—I am much pleased with the action of
your “ Herbal Extract” that you supplied me with.
On tha passage to Fiji I cured one man of an
attack of Dysentery with three doses, and on
the return voyage a lady brought a child on
board very ill with Chronic Dysentery, which the
doctors could not cure in Fiji; the second day
the Dysentery stopped and the child left at
Auckland getting quite strong and hearty. I
am, dear sir, yours faitiifully.—W. L. Cromarty
What a Medico Says !
Rangiora, July 7,1881.
Sir,— Having carefully examined the N.Z Herbal
Extract, I find it to be a skilfully prepared vege-
table preparation, possessing tne properties of the
plants from which it is derived in a highly con-
centrated state, a fact which l have verified by
evaporating a fluid drachm placed in a watch-
glass over a spirit lamp. On weighing the result,
a dark green extract, 1 found the weight to be Ufi
grains. On further submitting the extract to
analysis I found it to bo rich in tannin. In a large
number of cases of ordinary diarrhoea, as well as
in many chronic cases and in dysentery, I have
proved it to contain great specific control, added
to the unusual feature in a majority of diarrhoea
medicines, that it does not subsequently constipate
the bowels. 1 fell satisfied that, from the number
of trials 1 have been enabled to make of it in a
somewhat extensive practice, it is a most valuable
addition to modern therapeutics.
The following cases are taken at randown from
my note book :—
Case No. 1.
Mrs. M , West! Byerton, suffered for two
years from Cnronic Dysentery, which had reduced
her almost to a skeleton. After a fortnight's trial,
not only had the Diarrhoea stopped, but she com-
menced eating meat without pain and the usual
concomitant vomiting. In two months she had
gained 181bs weight.
Case No. 2.
A. G., child, aged five years. Fortnight Diarrhoea.
Was effectually cured on the third day.
Case No. 3.
A soldier who had contracted Dysentery In
India got a small two ounce phial, and was well
before he had finished half of it.
(Signed)
Chari.es DeLacv MacCarthy, M.A., M.B., &e.,
Trinity College, Dublin,
Surgery, Rangiora, July 1881,
Monk’s New Zealand Herbal Mixture
for Neuralgia.
The mixture acts like a charm in the above pain-
ful disease, and giving instantaneous relief.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
From Captain Kennedy’, U.S.S. “ Hauroto,”
Port Chalmers, February 7th, 188.').
Dear Sir,—Thanks for the Medicine you were
kind enough to send me. I have only to say that
in my ease—a severe attack of Neuralgia in the
head—it afforded me considerable relief. It has
also the advantage of not being in the least nause-
ous like most remedies.
I remain, dear sir,
Yours faithfully,
A. Kennedy.
Mr. H. D. Monk.
PUBLIC NOTICE,
gy Any Person suffering from DYSENTERY or
DIARRH1EA (no matter how long standing, or
how bad the case) will be supplied with MONK’S
NEW ZEALAND HERBAL EXTK ACT, a Certain
Remedy, FREE OF CHARGE (upon production
of a card or a note from the Mayor or an Alderman
of the Municipality in which he or she resides to
the effect that the sufferer is too poor to pay for
the Medicine), on application to
FRED. J. MUIR and CO., or
HORACE D. MONK, Proprietor,
99 Blizabeth-street,
Near King-street, Sydney.
Woman Items
It is 18 years ago since Dr. Mary Walker,
an American lady, first aired her Bloomer cos-
tume. She was never prepossessing, was then
climbing towards middle age, strong-minded short-
legged, long-waisted—in fact a badly constructed
person altogether, and particularly virulent In
denouncing everyone who didn’t dote on Bloom-
erism as she did. Hence, it is not surprising that
Dr. Mary Walker’s crusade was unsuccessful. But
with a stout-minded courage, worthy of a more
encouraging result, she has worn those tr— — that
costume over since, and wears it now. Lady Bar-
berton took it up, and put it on, walked in it, lec-
tured on It—and got laughed at also. The Rational
Dress Association held a where the rational
Idea was exhibited in all Its phases, and the visitor
was affrighted by the accusing legend in large
letters on the roof: “ God has given you one shape,
and you make yourself another.” R. A. Proctor
has warmly advocated it, and says that all his
womenkind have voluntarily adopted it, and
wouldn’t go back to stays and petticoats for any-
thing.” And Proctor, with scientific slyness,
edg - s In an argument that to our mind goes about
fourteen times as far as endless talk about the
evils ot compressing the waist injuriously. For
our part, vre believe that a woman whose waist is
compressed knows Just as well how much the said
waist can stand without suffering injuriousness as
anyone can tell her, and telling is mostly thrown
away. Proctor says “ For tricycling the dress is
perfect, for lawn-tennis delightful, and for dancing
exquisite. The substitution ot a softly clad, lis-
some and yielding waist, for that hard enclosure
of steel and whalebone, which our arms— but
there, that’s the gist of his argument, and there s
a good deal of suggestiveness in it. Doctors
know all about these things ; but a doctor isn t
going to make himself unpopular, is he?. A doc-
tor may just as well save his breath when he s
telling a pretty girl with a olaspable waist that her
diaphragm Is being dumped or her liver con-
gested by stays ; but if he can just get that girl to
perceive the terpsichorean disadvantages of an
uncompromising hardness, he will have some
chance of making himself understood. “Humming
Dee.” In Melbourne, has taken the matter up
warmly In the Australasian, and has sent pat-
terns of the divided dress out alloverthecountry.
Mies Elphiustone Dick, too, who keeps a ladies
gymnasium at St. Kilda, tilts vigorously at her
sisters’ foibles. We put, she remarks, eight or ten
layers of stuff round our waists, and one or none
on our arms and shoulders. We wear three or
four petticoats, and the thinnest of stockings and
soles. If we studied the laws of Nature, we
should wear but three warm garments, consisting
of the combination garment next the skin, prin-
cess-shaped petticoat, and the ordinary dress. But
it’s doubtful whether all Miss Dick’s arguments
and appeal convinced her hearers that the stayless
woman is the most graceful one. It’s quite a
question whether a perfectly natural appearance
is at all desirable in woman. One enthusiastic ad-
vocate of reform yearns; “ Oh, it men would only
learn to take their Ideas of female beauty from
Greek statues." We won’t. Without at all tavour-
ing the ideals of the fashion plates, where women
about seven feet long are as nearly as possible cut
in half by a waist of 16 Inches, wo don t see the
slightest necessity to go back so far; nor to ladies,
either, with so little on. While we have an utter
contempt for the limping, padded, trussed-up
dolls, who carry artifice to the limits of disgust,
there are yet plenty of shapely, healthy women in
the streets every day, wearing neither Grecian nor
Bloomer inventions, but just ordinary dress, not
carried to extremes, who are quite good enough
for us.
♦ * •
Mr. Justice Chitty has decided that a
married woman quarrelling with her husband has
a right to turn him out of doors If the house
belongs to her. But as he can leave, rent another
house, and then compel her to live with him, the
law does not afford her so much relief after all. ...
A safety-match—marrying an heiress. ...1 he Nic-
torian Medical Board has decided that It is bound
to accept diplomas of females from properly con-
stituted colleges and universities. .. What on earth
is there about a Chinaman that can fascinate a
white girl ? The answer from up North is that it
Is the fact of John’s liberality m the matter of
dress and gewgaws which makes him “go down.
Again. John may occasionally murder his wife, but
he never beats her After going some years to
Hurlingham, the Princess of Wales and other
ladles found out that pigeon shooting was cruel.
Then the usual flunkey cry of fashion went put,
and other flunkeys took it up. But it is hard to
see why pigeon shooting is crueller than game
shooting, hare coursing, or any hunting. If one
is cruel, so are all... Hildegardo is a new game,
which is suited to ladies, and is already a rival to
lawn-tennis. It is described as a sort of easy
cricket, with some baseball notions and light foot-
ball thrown in. Its great advantage is, it can be
played anywhere, on a park or the sands of the
shore, and no lawn, court, or preparation ot
ground is needed.... Since the Princess ot Males
lately travelled in a costume whose bodice was cut
so as to display a white linen collar and habit shirt,
many fashionable ladies have adopted the st>le....
“One-half the world don’t know how the other
half lives !” exclaimed a gossip. Oh, well, said
her neighbour, “don’t worry about it; Umtyour
fault if they don’t know Apropos of charity
fairs and affairs. H.R.H. the Duchess ot Connaught
sang publicly at an Ascot concert in aid ot a
church building fund. It erst a guinea to hearThe
royal voice..... It is interesting to know that Miss
Maude Forrester was paid twelve guineas for her
ride through Coventry as Lady Gpdiva. It wasiit
much, considering how liable she was to catch
cold. Miss Maude Forrester, however, is a woman
of a good deal of physique. As previous ladies,
in exhibiting their charms as Lady Godiva, had
erred on the fide of liberality, the Mayor of
Coventry privately inspected her Ladyship befoie
going out. He expressed himself quite pleased....
This is how a Mudgee exchange speaks of the belle
of a recent ball; “She was a very pretty girl,
dressed in a most beautiful, well-fitting costume,
whoso eyes shone with the effulgenceot the even-
Ing star, whose shimmering locks ne ®ded not
copherous—whose coral lips and pearl_teeth set off
the chiselled features and general contour of the
head. Who was she?” In all probability she was
“the girl” of the man who took the reporter
across the road and til led up his tank with “wal-
lop ” ..Oscar Wilde calls dirt the bloom of time.
.. T. “ My dear, what a strange place for you to
ieave your stockings—on a drawingroom chair,
“You goose, those are my new silk gloves ....
Tricycles are becoming popular with ladies. Nici
for two loving hearts to beat side by side, while four
leers move in unison. .In London now, some fashion-
able churches close during the summer season.
Fashionable people can’t stand heat; at least, not
in this sphere....The charm of pretty ancles is
simply that you so seldom find them....A man
looking over his wash, which the laundress had
just brought home, remarked that he could very
well understand how his nether garments might
shrink up, but what puzzled him most was how
the ruffles grew on each leg.. A new ballroom
built by the Prince of Wales at. Sandringham, is
only 60 x 30 feet, and he formally opens it with a
grand ball on his birthday. Wires are laid on, so
guests can engage dances by telephone... A man
in N.Y. sued a telephone company lor refusing to
allow him to transmit bad language over the wire.
He contended that having paid for the wire he
could send what words he liked. He was non-
suited, the Court bolding that people had no right
to send swear words or immoral sentences by tele-
phone; more especially us many of the clerks were
young women.
Eight hundred pounds, it would appear,
was paid bv Garner lor the colonial rights of the
“Silver King.” And, talking of the gams of
dramatic author?, we may tell you that Maddison
Morton, author ot‘ “ Box and Cox, and about 100
other farces, is now a “ Charter-house pensioner,
which is another name for pauper. He got rather
under £20 for “Box and Cox,” and no copynghtnor
royalties! It’s rather different now-a-days. Sims,
for instance, “ knocks up ” four acts ot cruel bosh
called “The Romany Rye,” and makes over three
thousand pounds by It, while Farnie translates a
French comic opera, in which the dialogue is as
bald as Polk and the songs mere rhyming raspers,
and realizes more than that 1 We have always had
an affection for “ Box and Co.” ever since we saw
Mr. George Labertouche play In it at a swell
swarry, on which occasion he (being a humble
hatter) thus addressed his landlady : “ Mrs.-aw-
Bouncei, take me in a-aw-ha’porth ot milk—ya-as
—and let it-aw-stand. I like the-aw-cweem to
wise to the top-aw!” This exquisite rendering
brought down the house, to the contusion of Cox,
who was behind, in chess-board pants, wildly re-
hearsing, for the last time, his biz. with the
rasher. And you must know that the Boston
people have given Eleanor Carey a gold medal for
saving the life of a fisherman; and you must more
especially know that Teddy M'Lean is back with
his troubadours, after having, on his own confes-
sion, made a " pot of money/’ He starts out again
shortly—or, rather, directly he can get a Sydney
writer sobered up enough to fix him up a new
burlesque.
Hop Bitters does not exhaust and destroy,
but teston s, cures, and makes new. Look up.
Gentlemen! your hands; ladies! your
aprons. So. You shall have the news so fast that
it will be like shelling peas, or the hall of questions
that came from A. G. Taylor. You shall learn, if
you are good, that Jennie Lee is playing in that
noble comedy (specially adapted from the French
of Mullock and Hanchovy by J. P. Burnett,
Ksq.); and of this play, the gifted old party who
“does"—there is no other word for it—the notices
in the Australasian, says:—“If the Czar woulu
build many theatres, and engage many Jennie
Lees, and pay innumerable dramatic authors to
write plays of the ‘Grasshopper’ type, he might
defy Nihilism, and go about unguarded. ’
After this beautiful piece of foot-bath and warm-
ing-pan criticism, the writer (bless his old gums!),
m intimating the arrival of Miss Ada Lee (Jennie’s
sister), says—and this is really and truly the writing
of a heavy father well loaded up with gruel auci
with tallow on his nose:—“It is not much of a
part—[Ada’s, who plays Mabel]—to be sure, but it
is enough to show that we may be very glad to
have got another of the family. It is clear, judging
Irom these two sisters, that we cannot have too
many of the Lees.” . . . Not of those Lees,
perhaps, you dear, clean old man ; but, it is
possible to have too many, perhaps, of yours.
Can’t you guess ? Garner, we see, takes
little Willie Warner’s part. We have not heard
what has become of our small friend. Could the
step-ladder have broken as he was climbing up the
horse ? We see, too, that “ Les Manteaux Nolrs ”—
‘The Mountain War,” to quote our Illustrious
contemporary, the Rum— is a big go at the Opera
House, with Verdi and Knight Aston in the cast.
By the way, it is not generally known the authoress
of “ Dora Thorne,” A Golden Heart,” and other
stories that have appeared in the Family Herald
et ailleurs, is Knight Aston's wlfey. She writes
under the signature of “ Rita,” and is a charming
Rita in a double sense.
Oh, and you’ll cough when you read this.
Two niggers of Haverly’s troupe, called the Bohee
brothers, are making a fortune now in London,
teaching the aristocracy the banjo at two guineas
a pop. They drive about with a coachman and
footman, and have, of course, white wives. This
reminds us that the Prince ot Wales is a flrst-rate
banjo-player, and also conjures up the fact that,
at the Theatre de la Renaissance, in Paris, a mag-
nificent room is special lv set apart tor the
dramatic critics, and "a lackey, gorgeously
arrayed, is likewise in attendance, ready at any
moment to drive to the editorial offices with
the copy, the theatre paying Ids travelling ex-
penses. In this otherwise admirable arrangement
there is, however, one slight drawback. The
flunkey, we understand, has strict orders to open
every envelope, examine the contents, and * acci-
dentally ’ mislay every unfavourable critique.”
And we couldn’t rush past this item, which has
only just arrived per van, and which is as follows: —
“Dumps’ celebrated trick Monkey is dead, Killed
by the Packer’s Horse running away, owing to the
Packer being—hem! nr. Cairns, N.Q. — J. 8, Bioges.”
We dent mind admitting, since the proprietor is so
far away, that we never heard of Dumps’ monkey
before. This comes, you see, of only having a
superficial education. We are sorry the monkey
is dead, anyhow. We suppose the poet’s corner
man of the Cairns paper will write something
about how
They laid him in the cold, cold grave,
To rise, oh, never more;
They laid him where tlie rhythmic wave
Doth kiss our sunny shore.
We can furnish this by the furlong. Hold on till
another poet dies !
We suppose Gus St. Leon would be offend-
ed if we didn’t say he was at Bega with his circus
and his tiger. This carnivarous monster renders
two audiences a day pallid, but no sooner have
they filed out to the usual lyrical supplication for
the august lady than they let the tiger loose and
load him up with arrowroot. He is not up to a
chop yet, but is getting on, and there is a rumour
that this wild, untamed savage of a Bengal
jungle sleeps under Gus St. Leon’s pillow.
However that may be, Syd. Cohen (who calls him-
self “ Australia’s Cosmopolitan Eccentrlcian ) is
doing a turn at the London Royal Music Hall, He
calls nimself “ Sydney Woollahra.’ ’ We don’t know
what the audience call him. And we cannot con-
tinue writing these shows without letting the
world know how we deprecate the manner in
which the Cobar paper talks of the Clark and
Ryman Minstrels. We wouldn’t care if it was a
company we did't respect—but, hang it, you know !
And just to think that the world Is to be bored
with another fashionable and beautiful actress—
Lady Moncton. And while on fashion and beauty,
we hasten to say that Elolse Juno had a ben. on
the 19thInst., at Dunedin; the Mayor in the chair,
and much snuff in the ball.
' Skinny Men —“Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney,
| General Agents.
IN THE GLEBE ’BUS.
She was a lady <Uhonnair,
And led her little son—
A chubby boy, with curly hair,
And great big currant bun.
She plumped beside me on the seat—
Oh! she was fair to see—
Asked me to take, with smile so sweet,
Alfonso on my knee.
It was not far to her abode.
And “ sonny was so small,
Perhaps I “ would’t mind the load ?
I said “ Oh, not at all.”
Delightfully the lady spoke,
Seraphic was her smile;
Readers, if you are married folk,
No doubt you know the style.
We sat close In tne crowded car—
Oh, she was fair and plump;
I wished her home was twice as far,
When—oh, she gave a jump!
“ Excuse me, madam,” with a cough,
1 said —not quite at ease—
“ But you’ve sat on, also set off,
A box of my match-eee.” I
H.T.
THE LATE PROFESSOR DENTON.
LADY HARBERTON.


A hawker fount! dead nearDeniliquin, with
a dent in his skull and a rent in his pocket.
Tasmania is getting quite a lively little
place. A few Sundays ago, on Cataract Hill, Laun-
ceston, a band of brothers and a squad of sisters
boxed together, and commenced to “sing an ’im.”
Then three young Inebriates began to ring cow-
bells, and a nigger, who had also been where the
corn was waving, pulled off his shirt and offered
to fight any man in the crowd. Then the force
came along, and the mob stoned them, and some
sinner hit the leader of the revivalists In the face
w ith a dead cat. Whilst the constables were en-
deavouring to haul the coloured gentleman off to
gaol, the crowi' pulled at his heels with such a
hearty good-will that in about eleven seconds all
his clothes came off. Then one of the policemen
trod on a dog, who at once took a piece out of his
calf, and, in the subsequent scrimmage, the nigger
got away. Thereupon, the sisters picked the grass
out of their hair, and Brother Potts gave a hurried
benediction. This is certainly a very nice way to
spend Sunday.
The “Yag.” will probably squirm a little
when he sees that although his blood-curdling tales
of nigger-butchering in the southern Seas caused
no more excitement at home than a pile of tracts
would at an Irish wake, still, Mr. Ernest Morrison’s
first epistles on the same subject have fluttered
the dove cots in D.nvning-street and Lord Derby
has actully called upon the Governor’s of Queens-
land and Fiji to wake up and do something. The
tales told by Ernest were no doubt pretty well for
a young beginner, but we doubt very much if they
will “take well ” in a land that hoists of a writer
who can Write a yarn like thesubjoined. Listen
Mr. Peter Reid, an English sportsman, whilst out
shooting recently came “upon a snake in his path,
lying dead, as he thought, an 1 putting down the
muzzel of his gun, he turned over the reptile to
see if it was really defunct. Much to his suprlse,
the creature at once showed signs of life, and
quick as thought put his head into the muzzle and
wriggled into the barrel, defying Mr. Reid's efforts
to dislodge it. The gun was loaded, but not a
breach loader, and so at last, determining to waste
no more time, the sportsman shouldered it and
started on his tramp. Soon after, a hawk flew
within shot, and, bringing his gun to his shoulder,
Mr. Reid fired. So Tar from hittinir the bird
however, he only provided it with a breakfast •
Mr Peter Reid to ™ r „ th! ? archl eforbeser we order
mufdiSh'p,;,:?.": 8 »>;»“ Ana,*,
neu s aeatn, s embezzlement. Dr. VaiurhanN
successor, Cetewayo’s demise, and so on
There was an ambitious but eccentric
did welUflUheih?w rt 0nce ? ctin * Hamlet. He
announced hi when he calmly
announced tnat he didn t know a line He had
S” 8t t e ' 1 ? e,ld 0f 4th act! 11 “ Bile
Then hcnm.tL thc almo ?t paralysed manager,
ffiw aad and matched a thought.
M in m v tomni’o °S dered the stage to be set with
as possible. All
were hast!? m et that could be found
were nastily collected; messengers were sent In
front for some of Coverts friends; and whin the
must^nminlnK Up , on the 5th a «t it revealed the
■tell lld hoV 1 !^i Uryln8 ' ? roun ? ever sot on any
stage, and behind every tomb lurked a prompter
with an open bqok of * Hamlet.' No matter iu
what part of the stage Covert happened to be, his
lines were given right in his ear, and the curtain
went down amid rounds of applause.
There is a degree of humor in the way the
Age wagged when David Gaunson topped the
poll at Emerald Hill. The Moabite had gone dead
against the fractious lawyer and had prayed Its
readers to send him to the bottom or farther. But
the people sent Vale to the bottom and lifted
David. Then the Age says “ Ah, it was all along
of the Argus I” But the beauty of it is that the
Argus had also written David down and Vale up.
Emerald Hill is a little suburb on the south of
Melbourne, with about 30,(XX) people, nearly 6000 of
whom are on the electoral roll. The circulation
of the Age is very great there, and the sweet con-
viction which has stamped a new arch of dignity
on the brow of the senior member of the firm, was
that the circulation was owing to the splendid
ability with which be set forth his principles, and
the sublime faith the people reposed In his judg-
ment. He can’t see that it is only as a cheap adver-
tising medium the suburb wants him there at all.
The truth is that that suburb aud every other one
have had enough of the Age kind of radicalism.
They know that It is simply a monetary specula-
tion, and if the Argus had no objection some
believe that the Age would to-morrow enter into
a newspaper coalition every bit as brazen as the
Parliamentary one it stump up. But this mocking
rebuff from Emerald Hill will not cure the great
panjandrum. Nethiug short of hitting him in the
ear with a brick gets David to know that you dis-
pute his supremacy. And we believe he’d call
that only a mild, distant hint. We don’t like
Gaunson overmuch. But he’s lively and has
courage, and as there was a newspaper “ dead-set”
against him, we do like the manliness of the
Emerald Hill people in standing to him.
Here is an anecdote which should interest
‘Old Jack A deputation, consisting of several
Scotch ministers of religion, waited on Lord
Brougham once, with reference to some question
connected with the “kirk.” “The interests of
vital religion,” explained the leader of the deputa-
tion, ‘ required the immediate attention of the
Government to this question ” The speaker
was here Interrupted oy his Lordship, who com-
menced to hammer viciously with his closed fist
on the wall of the next room, where his secretary
was supposed to be in attendance. “ Yes, gentle-
men, as you very truly remark,” cried his Lord-
ship, still knocking, “ the interests of vital religion
—1 quite agree with you there ’ ’ Another territlc
battery of hard knocks on the wall. “The inter-
ests of vital religion—where the h— is that follow
gone to now? Yes, gentlemen, as you very truly
observe, the interests of true religion require—
what can be keeping that blank blank fool so
long ?” Then he knocked furiously once more for
the absent secretary; and when that functionary
at last appeared, he poured out such a fearful
volley of oaths, curses, and double-blanked adjec-
tives on his devoted head, that the deputation with-
drew in terror from the scene. When the ministers
reached the street, they stared at each other with
looks of speechless horror, until one at last ex-
claimed, in a tone of fear and wonder, “ Eh, sirs,
but that man Broom’s a terrible cheild. Did ever
ye hear, in a’ yer born days, sic a spate o’ cursin’
and swearia’ ? They never did.
Roberts, who got seven years in the Ter-
minus ease, is hopelessly broken In health. It will
be remembered that he once owned the race-horse
named, and that he got a butcher to draw a
knife across the nag’s throat, to prevent its owner
from winning with him. The cut-throat turned
Queen’s evidence and got a light sentence, while
Roberts, as already indicated, was sent up for
seven years for having tampered with the morals
of his obliging friend. It would form an interest-
ing speculation, whether, had Mr. Roberts wished
the owner and not the horse to be the victim, he
would have been able to get a man so ready for
the job.
Sir John Robertson is “out of it” about
Wigram Allen, the ex-spoakership and the pre-
sumed analogy between the upper House in Mac-
quarie-street and the one at Westminster Hall
Allen resigned the speakership after eight or ten
years service there might have been some pro-
priety in moving him up higher as is done in the
old country under similar circumstances. But
Allen didn’t resign: his nomination was defeated.
The case dosen’t go on all fours with the instances
alleged by his John.
When Iroquois made his first appearance
In public at Monmouth Park, after his return to
America, he was received without a cheer. The
Spikit op the Times says: “ Here was the winner
of the English Derby, the Kentucky Derby, and
the best two-year-old of the year, all companions
in the parade, and yet they fail to elicit a cheer.
We were speechless with amazement. It would ill
become an American-born journalist to say of his
countrymen that they are indifferent to a horse
unless they have money depending upon him, but
certainly wo can, at least, say that were astounded
and ashamed of the reception accorded tc
America’s Derby winner on Saturday last.” We
fancy there would be a slight difference in the
welcome of an Australian horse at Handwlck or
Flemington, upon his return to his native heath
after taking pride of place In an English Derby.
Dr. Simms, the famous Physiognomist,
will deliver a series of Illustrated Lectures on
“Practical and Scientific Physiognomy,” at Pro-
testant Hall, opening with a discourse on Faces
and Noses, this (Thursday) Evening, at 8 o’clock.
Full particulars maybe lound In the amusement,
column.
The New Drop-Scene,
A DECIDED HIT. THE ARTIST CARDED BEFORE THE CURT A IN’.


SCOTCH WHISKEY!
jar* THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a/t-u.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.8.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY*
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled In bond for rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t.” rofore, rely that It
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.
When you ask for It, see that you get It, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, oork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.8.W. and Queensland.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Perk Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£26 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladles and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Single and
Double Bedrooms, replete with every comfort.
A TRIAL 18 RESPECTFULLY SOLICITED.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reductioni of 25 PER.CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find th®ir own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
rw The new duplex barrel, Introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he wm
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all ordem addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH,
On GOLD, VULCANITE, &c.,
nade on the most approved modern principles,
arranted to combine fit, comfort, and durability,
with perfectly natural appearance.
All dental operations performed with skill.
Teeth stopped, and extracted painlessly.
Charges strictly moderate.
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SURGEON DENTISTS,
lOO Market-street, near Hyde Park.
Best work and best materials only.
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
)v rpocint of *1, the following collection of
NEW’GARDEN SEEDS will be forwarded
•ee by return of post to any part of New South
ales: — , _
in/ fleet (blood red), loz. Borecole or German
Greens loz Brocoli, 3oz. Cabbage (early and
iofr.1 2r>7 Parrot (2 varieties), loz. Celery, loz.
SirM tl s ) v.^r« r 0^r,
loz Spinach, 2oz. Radish (long and turnip , 2
ss
Tomato, 1 packet Vegetable Marrow.
no half of above collection, 10s, post free. J-
0 P. CRESWELL, Seed and Plant Merchant,
474 George-street, Sydney -
moustache and whiskers.
Boyd’e Beard Klixlr did tfcii, *nd will do U
l Aa ,K "KimWII on either bald bead or bare face. roreee
heavy Moustache in from ’2 to 4 .weeks and
Vi r t ? lif. / never* folia, kO,uou young men already wear
I Cull u«d>to *
Injury, easily applied. In elfect,
».* ✓ Packets Is. 6d* eocb,3for 3e.‘M.rPOtt
tent under cover.free from observation. Across, F»AWK Dou«LAB f
Sole AgenL, Box ?3o, Q.F.O., Sydney, N.S.W,
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’S FRINGES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLANWILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner 4 la Basse, for 60, in Government Talaoe
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN—re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at £!30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 123)
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE t* Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.80 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
MINISTERIAL ENCAMPMENT at the
NATIONAL PARK. Friday and Saturday, 5th
and 6th October, 1883. Breakfasts, Luncheons,
Dinners, &c., for 120 gentlemen.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Ex hi-
bitlon Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDBYBR.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner A la Basse at St. College, for 1W Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner A la Basse to the INTERCOLONIAL RIFLE
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKES-
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Boom.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
VLB UR Y-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Lobtus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling’ to and
from Banquet, &o., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners A to Rxosse in the N.S.Vj
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
travelling by rail, on account of the GO V xQlvN
MBNT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners,
Feasts, Weddings. Garden Parties, Balls, Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &o.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
IT is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
on the 28th, 2»th, and 30th of November next.
Candidates must have attained the age of 16 years,
or they will not be eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 10th October, 1888.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
Ef- 308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
W~ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
A
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION BED TAG is the*NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG Is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and, science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
A
YDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY
WOOL SALES, 1883
MY very numerous constituents, and all In-
terested in the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
shall be prepared to do the fullest Justice to the
LARGEST as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me : and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or ether Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses,
ATT. PROCEEDS OP SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
SALES of LIVE STOCK. TALLOW, HIDES.
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
.
MORT and CO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers.
Wool,
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT.
Wool Warehouses and Produce Stores,
CIRCULAR QUAY
and
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
3B9.B.
44 MARKET ST.
SYDNEY,
Importers of
WEIGHING
MACHINES,
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS,
AND
MACHINERY.
BROWN & MAY’S
Portable Engines, Saw Benches, Chaff Cutters,
Horse Gear, &c.
pUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON A CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
OR. two DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHO?
iUimSOR HOTEL
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBURN.
OLLBGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
MTFICAL TEETH on the mart approved Eng-
Stopping, Scaling, and Extraction* skilfully
performed.
James Carroll,
1 SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
3NTWORTH HOUSE. CHURCH HILL,
jJNX SYDNEY.
S'
“WHAT IS A SECRET?’
n Plane teU all your friends „
nottino & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
COWFKR’S WHAM,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Lire and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It Is a well-known fact that the Foundations of
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 25 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
25 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £35 cash, Eleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
ST 285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2b. 6d. per week—3s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
0T BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
IMin
g vest-ink
ach
erv
CHAMPION
ENGINES
AND
Damn
SAW
ILLS
FHUR
MILL
W|
S3?
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repobitobi
22 and 28 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTONS
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely reUevw.&u
wo can prove what we say. There aw: mr*
disappointments, MOULTON’S FRUIT , DYS-
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo distress Dorn
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the SIOMac y
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best 5*““* Jr two,
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract e
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pul
Sold Everywhere, Price !•-
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PIUS
v-
s
55
MA
BOAR’S HEAD STOOT.-Thta fawu
of Stout selected fir®, 2,
best of the brewings of and therefor*
Arthur Guinness and Cm, e v«T*
cannot be excelled, To be prooureo
CATTBLL & CO., Sole Agents-


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
ir« shall be glad to have this index posted up by
" secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING INDEX.
Readers Will find the doliiniii regularly
hpftded with a list df flxtiires to be attended to
within the iriorith; fdlldwed by names and dates
ef Racd-nieetliigS to be held in the more distant
future.
THE MONTH’S FIXTURES.
foolah Handicap close October 19.
Narrandera close .October 19.
V A T.C. Races - October 20.
Rprrima Gener 1 Entry October 38.
Wollongong T.C. Annual October 34.35.
aa v N.Y.R.C October 35, 26.
Perrlma District Races October 30, 31.
'Tamworth Handicaps close November 1.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6.8,10.
Victoria Trotting Club Hades November 7.
dnolah General Entry November 8,
WlUIamstown R.C. (y.) November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
Coolah (Annual) November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 6,7.8.
Auckland (N.Z.) R.C. Races November 10.
Murrumbidgee T.C. Wagga, Weights Nov, 12.
Murrumbidgee T.C. General Entry .Nov. 16.
FUTURE RAGES.
Murrumbidgee.T.C November 31,23,33
Brinitfo J.C. (v.) November28, 29.
Barandera J.C November 39, 30.
artley District J.C. Spring November 39, 80.
Tamworth R.C. (Summer) December 4,6.
Warialda J.C December 13,13.
Liverpool J.C December 23.
Victoria Amateur T.C.... December 36.
Pleasant Creek (Y.) December 38.
Clarence Tatersell’s J.C December 36.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1.1884.
Sydney T.C January 36.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn...,March 6, 7.
Hawkesbury R.C. (Autumn) April 3, 5.
AQUATICS
Double Bay Regatta. .;... October 37.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
Champagne Cup November 17.
All Comers Regatta December
National Regatta .January 26, 1884.
ATHLETICS.
Wallsond Athletic Club Mooting November 9.
Bathurst Sheffield Handicap November 9.
Junee Junction Sports Nov. 9.
Hay Athletic Club Sports Dec. 36, 27-
Blayney Sports. ; Deo. 36,
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“Spec.” (Yio.): If two persons In a raffle,
where there are two prizes—first and second highest
—throw 43 each, there being no higher throw, they
throw off for the two prizes. A throw of 41 would
be out of it“... W.P.” (Castlereagh): Dr, Cortis, of
Bathurst, was never amate ur champion bicyclist of
England’ It was his brother. Dr. H. L. Cortis, now of
Coonamble, who occupied that position.. “Seventy-
Five ”: It was the first Cossack that was for years
located at ToCal, with New Warrior. Neither of
the Cossacks was imported, but both were sons of
the colonial Sir Hercules—“ Wilberforce Mr.
Hurtle Fisher was on board the ill-fated Admella.
,,,. “ V ete ran Mormonwontwo champion races
—one Tasmanian, the other at Wagga Wagga;
Archer won the two first Melbourne Cups “A,
W. Max”: The great sale of Maribyrnong Stud,
when the yearling, Fishhook, was knocked down
for 3600 guineas, took place some time before the
stud was disposed pf by lottery —“Enquirer”
(Macquarie River): You are in the right line,
though not quite correct. The Barb was bred by
Mr. George Lee : Jav’lin, Mr. Thomas Lee; and
Zulu, Mr. James Lee. Next week we may give you
the statistics you seek.
The Budget.
[BY NEW WARRIOR.]
Having got over the opening day of Caulfield,
with its Foal Stakes and Guineas, a few entries
during the intermediate days bring u8 to the Caul-
field Cup, on this Saturday, the 30th, an event
which, wo need not say, is looked forward to with
great interest. What we have to call special atten-
tion to in the immediate future, after the 30th,
consist as follows:—Berrima general entry on
Tuesday, the 23rd; Wollongong annual race meet-
ing on Wednesday and Thursday, the 34th and 25th,
Which gives convenient time tor sportsmen attend-
ing that fixture to get to Melbourne for the great
events of t he 3rd November. Hay races are on the
35th and 36th, Berrima on the 30th and 31st, and
with the closing of the Tamworth Handicaps on
November 1st, our important items may conclude
for this week.
It is good to know that the N.S.W. representa-
tives for tho coming Flemington Race Carnival
have arrived at their destination in good order,
and next week, in the “Referee” columns, we
hope to give our readers some cheering infor-
mation as to the Flemington doings of our Mari-
byrnong Plate, Derby, and Cup champions. “Pe-
gasus” Intends, after that, putting in an appearance
on the great Southern convincing ground, and
will wind up the probabilities of the different can-
didates in our final issue before the Blue Riband
contest.
In the meantime, it is hardly too much to say
that everything points to a “ good time coming r ’
for the South Australian racehorses, there having
never been a time in Australian Turf history when
Adelaide looked so dangerous for big events, since
the late unfortunate Mr. T. J. Ryan was such a
terror with The Ace, Leo, Benvolio, and half-a-
dozen others. Most other men would have “ broke
a bank” with such a string to run for him; but
poor “Tom” was too good-natured. The present
generation of S.A. turfites will make the King
quaver if they get such a chance as he had.
Visitors to Temora races will, I am sure, hear
with regret that the ever-obliging secretary of the
Temora Jockey Club has, owing to a buggy
accident, lost one of his legs, which had to be
amputated on Thursday last. Mr. Orbell, (he
gentleman to whom I refer, was out driving with
t he C.P.S. of the district, when a portion of the
harness giving way caused a "bolt,” the occupants
being got rid of with tho result that Mr. Orbell met
with serious injuries—so bad in fact that amputa-
tion was the only remedy to save life. The C.P.8.
got off with a few bruises.
Tho sporting folk of 'Wollongong will be holding
high carnival on next Wednesday and Thursday,
and if good entries be any criterion, then the meet-
ing ought to be as successful as many of its prede-
cessors. Up to the time of writing there are only
three handicaps declared, viz., the hurdles, and the
two principal flat races; and it’s not an easy task
to arrive at the intentions of owners, who appear
more than ever mysterious. The advice I intend
giving anent two or three probable winners must
be carefully taken, as I haven’t the slightest idea
what will saddle un, and those I select might not
see the post. In the jumping race, Uhlan, I sup-
pose, will be piloted by George Hunt, and
although he has been allotted the much-
despised honour of “top weight,” ought to
h© a bad one to beat, and I look to him to
score, if I mistake not, his first winning bracket.
If Kelso be. as well as I have seen him, he would
win both big handicaps; but, as I am in the dark,
and know little or nothing of him, I shall go for
u ' r^ B & e ,T ettr8 to P ul1 through In the
and YYollongodg Handicaps. These
a ™ madB the Idea that Soldier Boy
- ‘ Absentee. Judging by wllat I can learn,
I 1 ® weather to ensure a
lacing. A correspondent Informs
?Y an jH td pd has heerl erceted. and
™n<P»u?l d , tho first time. Visitors to Wolford
thPfrYf S? Pi?® Tec i to hear this; for Something of
dl / need ? d in place df the few sticks
Jnfant * j r a riymberot yearS; and were,
in fact, more of an eye-Sore than a coiivenibnce.
I h ft ve to congratulate Mr. N. R. D. Bond and his
? r 8l i cc ? 89 attended the opening
Amateur Turf Club meeting
P+u d ’ on ,Saturday last. Accounts to hand
tell that the racing was of a high class, and the at-
wadw C mi ai F’ including a crowd of sports from
j.u a j ? meeting is always looked for-
ward to with a deal of interest, for not only does the
liberal programme provided give good racing and
cause a large amount of speculation, but a line is
?®n e rnUy] got for the good things to be run for a
tow nays later at Flemington. The winner of “The
flP.K? 08 ,1? regarded as dangerous for
the blue riband of the V.R.C., and whatever carries
its colours to the front in the Cup is looked upon
av i a ? P • h vo or six to one chance for the
greatest betting race of tho year. The Cup has
not yet been decided, but the Guineas winner
(Sardius) has mot with some support for the V .R.C.
Derby, and may he hard to beat. Still, in Archie
a P d two or three others, he will be called on to
P?®?® ~ aorse j totoily different calibre to those
0 PP°®P. d i*im st Caulfield; and urlleSs hb won
witha g°°d deal to spate 1 danribt 9bfl hitil With
jwi 6 ,,; i'5 an , a 9. Pdtside shd\li in the Derby, as
df® not td my mind within two
stone of thfe 8dn of Rapidity. Thg Foal StakbS, too, is
a Food guide to the probable winner
of the two-year-old Derby, and this year’s victor
has brought out another one to occupy the atten-
a?P of backdrs, inDavld. a son of Gonddlidrand
Aim© Drew; and, although owners as a rule only
send their second strings in this race as “ feelers,”
David has beaten one or two supposed flyers, and
should have a big say at Fleminirion. Our repre-
sentatives dldn t score a winning bracket, and I
hope that Delusion’s second in the Guineas is not
the forerunner of other similar positions to be run
into at Flemington. The Warwick Farm stable
has commendddthfl sdasdtl badly with Warwick’s
mishap, and I hope the Oft-repdated saying that a
i PoFinnlng makes a good ending will be appli-
cable in this case.
The Caulfield Cup. with its great list of entries,
has almost bedn prolific of a8 much speculation as
the Melbourne Cup, and I look forward to the
time when it will be considered of duite as much
importance to win this mile and a half aa it is to
land the dollars over the two miles at Flem-
ington. The course at Caulfield is an awkward
one, indeed, and it’s now said, and generally
considered correct, that unless a horse gets well
away and is always near the front, he can have no
show in the Cup race, and I hope the time isn’t far
°n when the course will be altered, so as to admit
of those who are slow on their legs making up
their iost ground, and the same facilities offered aa
at Randwick and Flemington. The club could
have no better steersman than the present secre-
tary, to whose management the high position the
i plnb now occupies is attributable, and each defect
In Its turn will be remedied. So far away from
tbe trystlng-plaoe one must be indeed a “plucked
un to attempt to spot the winner for the piece de
risistance of the meeting, with something like 60
or TO to select from, but a guess must be hazarded.
I have no intention of wading through the lengthy
list, nor will t have more tharl three to represent
my pick, and I will look td Caima, Anglesey; and
Josephine to furnish the winner. Writing this on
Monday, I am at a great disadvailtage and cannot
have the latest soratchings before me. The “ watch
breaking ” Yately would have my support were he
to be relied on, ms he is one of the tew who get
quickly on their legs, but it’s ten to one he won’t
try, and ought not to be trusted. Sweet William,
who has always been going to do a good thing, but
so often failed, has received a lot of genuine sup-
port, and judging bv his work, which couldn’t bo
better, he ought to run very forward; but looking
on him as I do as one of the uncertain division,
much better left alone.
The Melbourne papers are loud In their praises of
the £25,000 worth of improvements being effected
at Flemington, and which, when finished, will
leave nothing to be desired that could conduce to
the benefit and comfort of visitors, horse-owners,
and horses, at the great “ show ’’ of our neigh-
bours, to be held in November. Mr. Moore is
evidently determined to show himself worthy to
fill the shoes left vacant by his predecessor.
It has been decided, I believe, to expunge the
time taken for the Two-year-old Race, at the
Sydney Turf Club meeting, from the Club’s records,
nd to substitute “time not taken.” This bears
out what I remarked in my last as to the official
time being unreliable, the holder of the “ white
flag ” having acknowledged he was late in drop-
1 ping it.
The splendid general entry received bvthe V.R.C.
for their minor races gives an idea that the racing
at the coming Flemington carnival will not be one
whit less exciting than previous meetings have
boasted of, and dally the trains are crowded with
Sydney cits, going “to see the Cup,” while the
steamers leaving our shores for tho sister colony
carry away many who never, by any chance, miss
the Spring meeting of the v.R.C. Already the
sporting purlieus of Sydney are almost deserted,
most of the “regulars 1 ’ having taken wing; and,
in a few days, the usual rendezvous of the “ fancy”
will wear a very woebegone appearance.
No horse has been more persistently backed
during the past ten days or so than Santa Claus,
for the Melbourne Cup, and a private letter in-
forms me that he is as well as hands can make him.
When I think how he ran Darebin to half a length
for the v.R.C. Derby, which was run In 2.411, he
appears to me as being wonderfully well in the
Melbourne Cup at 7.5; and as I am given to under-
stand that he has improved greatly, he must have
more than an ordinary look In. He has certainly
done nothing to recommend him since the race
with Darebin mentioned, but all the knowing ones
are “ on,” and the daily bulletins from head-
quarters speak in such glowing terms of his work,
that I am inclined to think his chance second to
none.
Races Past and Coming.
WALLSEND AMATEUR TURF CLUB RACES.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13.
Flying Handicap; Whisper Low, 1; Flirt, 3;
Melita, 3. Members’ Handicap: Darebin, 1; Brace-
let, 3; Trial, 3. Turf Club Handicap: Whisper
Low, 1; Budelight, 2; Melita, 3. Hurry Skurry:
Flirt Away, 1; Darebin, 3. Forced Handicap :
Melita. 1; Myra, 3; Carlisle, 3. Melita won after a
dead heat.
VICTORIA AMATEUR TURF CLUB RACES.
FIRST DAY, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13.
The weather for this, the opening day, was
splendid, and there was a large attendance, includ-
ing a goodly crowd from Sydney. The following
are the results
Selling Race, of 100 sovs , 44 mile: Hannibal 1,
Egerton 3, The Drone 3. Hill Talk, Frou Frou,
Liddington, Halifax, Mameluke, Sceptic, -md John
Peel ran. Egerton was favourite. Tune, 53 sec.
First Handicap Hurdle Kace of 100 sovs , 3 miles :
Bello Brandon, 9.8, (Oree) 1 ; Game, 13.5, (Cor-
rigan) 3; Avalanche. (Battye) 3. Artful Joe,
9.7, Bazlllsk, 10.13, Huzza. 11.4. Triplet, 10.8,
Tantalizor, 9 3, started. Betting: 3 to 1 each v. Game
and Bazflisk. Won easily. Time, 4 rain. 3 sec.
Great Foal Stakes, of 15 sovs each, with 300 sovs
added; for two-year-olds—colts, 8st.; fillies, 7st
13lb ; half mile.—Mr. G.|Davis' b o David, by The
Gondolleiv-Alice Drew (O’Brien), 1; Mr. W,
Bladder’s b f Gratitude, by Countryman, imp.—
Serenity, imp. (Hutchins), 3f; Mr. W. Gordon’s ch f
Sandal, by VVlnterlako, imp.,—Instep, imp. (Walker)
3+; Real Jam, Invictus. Jereel. Merrlma, Timboon,
Coir, Lavlngton, Wlllania, Uarda, Sheda, Para-
pluie, also ran. t Dead heat. Betting : 3 to 1 v.
Gratitude, 1 to X v. Sandal, 6 to 1 bar two; won
easily ; time, 9l44sec. The Cauldfleld Guineas, of
10 Sovs each, with 300 sovs added ; colts, 8.5 ; fillies,
8 j 1 mile ( Mr. J. H. Aldridge’s b c Sardius (late
Emefald), by Emulation—Ruby (Wyman), 1; Mr.
W. ForreSter’a b f Delusion, by The English-
man—Deceptive (QoUgh), 3 j Mr. E. de Mestre’s
br c Ike; by Plsdator—Lady (Hailes), 3; Hur-
ricane,- Duenna, Quality; Taurus, Capri.
St. Lawreflce, Nepean, Pailleroo, Tabletop, and
Napier fan. Wetting, 4 to 1 vi Ike, 9 to 1 v. St.
Lawrence; 6 to 1 bar ttfo. Won comfortably;
Time. 1.48. AmateUr Challenge Cup; a handicap
Steeplechase of 8 Sovs,- with a gold cup, value 100
Sovs, and a gdlcl pail of spurs added; about two
miles: Banker, 10.13, 1; Fickle. 11.7, 2: Recovery,
119, 3. Rory O’More, 13.7; Marquis, 12.1; and
Welshman, 10.7, started. Welshman was favourite;
won cleverly. Time, 4.29. The Toorak Handicap
of 100 sovs, 1 mile: Bar One, aged, 7.9,1; Josephine,
6 yrs., 7.13, 3: Sparke, 5 yrs., 7.13, 3. Coriolanus,
9.4; Ironhand, 8.5; Paul. 8.3; Cooreena. 8 2; Black
Diamond, 7.13; Ironmaster, 7.6; Uproarius, 7.6;
Raillery, 72; Mary, 7.1; The King’s Son, 7.0;
Wotonga, 7.0; Prince Regent, 6.13; Fund, 6.13;
Bon Bon, 6.10. Betting, 5 to 1 v. Josephine; Avon
half a length. Time, 1.4844-
ENGLISH RACING, NEWMARKET.
The Cmsarewich Stakes: Colonel Ingram’s Don
Juan, by John Davis — Ladylike, 1; R. Peck’s
Harkness. 3; M. Belagh’s Cosmos, 3. Middle Park
Plate, for Two-year-olds: Lord Falmouth’s Busy
Body, 1; Royal Fern, 3; Adelaide Filly, 3. The
Champion Stakes! Mr. Lofevre’s Tristan, 1; Ossian,
3; Dutch Oven ( 3.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Millef’-Hlflclihilrn Wrestling match has
been fixed for 7th Novdmbcf
It is reported in (Queensland that Epigram,
the sire of Whedteai' and Le Grand, has been sold
for 4000 guineas, delivery to be made at the close of
the present season.
The 34-hours’ walk at Wellington, N.Z.,
between W. Edwards and J. Scott resulted In a
win for Scott by nearly four miles. This may in-
terfere slightly with Edwards’ American arrange-
ments.
Larry Foley is desirous of another slap at
Professor Miller, and has challenged him for £500
aside, Queensberry rules. Miller, however, is un-
willing to enter into any boxing match until after
his wrestling bout with Blackburn.
The following resolutions, passed at the
adjourned annual meeting of the University
Cricket Club, speak for themselves “ That no
member of the club who shall be in arrears in
respect of the past season’s subscription be
allowed to use the club materials or be chosen in
any match until such arrears be paid.” “ That no
member whose subscription for the current season
remains unpaid on the 1st December be allowed to
participate in any of the privileges of the club
until such subscription be paid.”
Some of our clubmen decline to admit
Brett within the charmed circle of amateur oars-
men. They have discovered, or fancy they have,
that a dozen years or so ago he worked as a miner
at Hill End! Well, supposing he did—what then 7
We know dozens of men, some of them now in
the highest social positions in the colonies, who
have worked as miners, yet no one would dream,
did they enter for a race, of questioning their
bona-fides as amateurs. Brett’s kind friends will
have to find some other reason for keeping him
out. Meanwhile, Brettdnnia rules the waves of
the Parfamfittd.
“ dlark’s electric launch Was * eleotrica-
ting ’ (she was not sailing nor was she steaming)
about Cowes Bav, on regatta day. Fitted up with
boxes of electricity, this boat, which measures 30ft.,
can raise a speed of seven miles an hour, while all
her lights are supplied from her batteries,” says an
English paper. “ Though not likely to supersede
steam for many a day, it is not improbable that
electricity will be used on board sailing yachts for
hauling the anchor, hoisting the sails, and on
racing boats getting in the main-sheet. Such an
apparatus might allow of one’s dispensing with a
couple of hands, and so the rule in yacht racing
against engines might so tar be abolished.”
An English paper says:—“The London
correspondent of the Australasian seems to be
much better Informed than the majority of rowing
reporters, as the last issue of that paper which we
have received contains a cablegram, dated London,
June 19, which states that tho preliminaries had
been arranged for a match between Hanlan and
Courtney for £1000 a side, and a similar amount
added by the Hop Bitters Company; The news
has not at present received confirmation from the
other side of tho Atlantic, and it certainly seems
passing strange as to the manner In which the
sender of the cablegram managed to obtain such
early and exclusive information.”
Racing men, who are aware how often
horses of certain breeds show to advantage on
particular courses, will note that Don Juan—tho
recent winner of the English “ Ciesarewltch ”—
while sired by a former Cmsarewitch winner,
is also half-brother, on the dam’s side, to the cele-
brated Rosebery (named after his little lordship),
who pulled off the same handicap some few years
back. Rosebery was subsequently successful in
tbe “Cambridgeshire,” and Mr. James Smith, the
owner, laid out his big winnings in starting the
well-known “Bon Marche,” at Brixton. It remains
to be seen whether Don Juan will follow in tbe
footsteps of his relative by landing the double
event.
Although rowing in Port Jackson has
during the past twenty years increased to an
enormous extent in quantity, it has certainly not
increased in the same ratio in quality, either as
regards the physique or style of its exponents,
notwithstanding we can now boast, or rather
number—f r tney are nothing to boast of—seven
rowing clubs The Sydney was the only club
represente I in the senior fours at the Rowing
Association regatta on Saturday last. No doubt
the M.R.C , had they notseceded from the Associa-
tion, would have sent a senior crew, or what they
call a senior crew, for, barring Brett, there is not a
member worthy of a seat in a senior boat. Sydney
has certainly progressed numerically in rowing
men during- the past twenty years, but can we
raise eight men ot the present day who could have
rowed within coooyof the four Fltzhardlnges, two
Delolttes, “ Lou” Windeyer, and Harry Freeman,
who flourished some score of years ago ? We think
not.
The new Parramatta race-course, being
prepared by Mr. John Bennett and a company of
speculators, promises to eclipse Randwick in a
good many particulars, and thoroughly squash the
Hawkesbury course. The Hon. James White, Mr.
Andrew Town, and about thirty other prominent
sportsmen visited tho course recently, and ex-
pressed intense admiration for the sight. The
former gentleman was so enthusiastic over it that
he offered a liberal amount for the sole right to
train on the course, which was declined. The
“ books ” have offered to contribute £1000 towards
a meeting to be held on the course tho same day
as the Hawkesbury meeting. The new course will
be accessible by railway, steamers, and trams. It
is one mile and a quarter in circuuilcrance, and as
flat as a billiard-table. A splendid stand is to be
erected. Everything in connection with horse-
racing matters will be provided on a liberal scale.
Trotting tracks on the American system, croquet
laws, wickets for cricket. &c., are also promised.
The raca at Charters Towers between E.
Hillyard, the local champion, and Cambardello
Billy, the N.S.W. aboriginal flyer, took place In
I resence of 700 people, who betted heavily. Imme-
diately on his appearance, the darkey, who stripped
splendidly and looked a perfect athlete, was fancied
considerably, and the backing took a decided turn
in his favour. Hillyard, on the other hand, was
trained as fine as a needle, and looked as if
there was considerable "go” In him. Both men
got away to a good start after a few false ones,
Hillyard having, if anything, tho advantage,
which he maintained for about one hundred yards,
when he was a foot or two ahead. Then ensued
one of those desperate struggles for the lead that
are seldom seen In matches, both men straining
every nerve at the hundred and fifty yards mark.
Hillyard still held the lead by a few Inches, and
loud cries of “ Hillyard wins,” could be heard on
all sides. But the blackfellow, making a splendid
rush, more than regained his ground and beat
Hillyard by a yard and a half, amid much weeping
gnashing of teeth among the backers of the
white.
Says London Bell’s Lira:—“Prom a
usually well-luformed authority we learn that
some doubts are Cast on the bnndfldcsot the recent
contest which took place between Hanlan and
Ross, and it is more than insinuated that the whole
of the money dowfl emanated froffl tbe same
source, the Sole stake at issue being the 3000
dollars which was subscribed by the citizen* of
Ogdensburg. It is also stated that when tbe par-
ties met aft«r 1 he affair, tbe champion announced
that ho had decided to return one-third ot tho
stake money, 660 dollars, to his opponent. When
Hanlan was over hdrO be was not celebrated for
over-generosity, so that it i!) bard to imagine why
he acted thus unless he adopted this means of
handing Ross his pre-arranged share of tho added
money. Again, it is a matter of speculation as to
who put up the money for Ross, who last wtotef
did not seem to be overburdened with cash, and
was unable to find backeis ei; her in St. John’s or
New York. Under these circumstances it is not to
be wondered that our American cousins do look
at the contest with suspicion.”
The Press of Fulton (N.Y.) pronounced
the recent race between Hanlan, Lee, and Hosmer
a mean exhibition, and one or two journals accuse
Hanlan of engaging in a regular hlppodroming
arrangement in which ho, in company with Loo
and Hosmer, are to go about the country giving a
so-called regatta at any point where a few hundred
dollais in gate money can be collected and divided
amongst them. For the above race, no definite
arrangements had been made for the division of
tho £160 stake-money, although it had been adver-
tised that the winner would receive £130, and the
second £40. The men got into a violent quarrel
over the division, and could not agree. They dis-
puted again at the hotel. Lee became very ex-
cited, and accused Hanlan of selfishness and unfair
dealing. He said; “Ned, you’re crooked; you
aren’t a square man,” Hanlan called Leo a liar,
and Lee accused Hanlan of owing him money
which Lee could not collect. Their judges con-
sulted with them, and agreed that the winner
should receive 50 per cent., the second 30 per cent.,
and the third 20 per cent. Hanlan wanted 50 per
cent, whether he won or not, but this was not
allowed. . . . Hanlan and Lee had a wordy en-
counter at the table at tho Lewis House, in Fulton.
Those whs were at the table say that Hanlan called
Leo a liar. After becoming more composed, both
Hanlan and Lee denied the report. Hanlan appears
to be getting the name of » great bully throughout
tbe States.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Subjoined notice appears in an Adelaide
paper:—
"DIED,
“TOURING the preseflt Month In South Aus-
tralla, of a complication of diseases, whilst
still in its Infancy, the noble ola sport known M
Horse Racing, deeply regretted by a Wrge cfreha
of friends who will please accept this intmuattortr
“Brat, Downer, & Co.,
“ Undertakers, North TerradfcV'
That well-known sportsman, Mr. Nugent Wade-
Brown (of Barolln, Bundaberg, Q.) has come to
permanently reside in N.S.W Keen rivalry ex-
ists between the Cootamundra and the Wagga
cricket clubs. Both are going in “ lemons.” First
match of season for Cox Cup will very likely be
played in “ city of the crows on 9th November....
The Hartley District Joehey Club will give away
£300 at their November meeting../.On Saturday,
the Britannia C.C. beat the Royal Alfred 6.0, by 24
runs. Scores: Britannia, 50; Royal Alfred, S 19. ..j
Mr. L. Caspersonn has imported a massive sllvef
cup from London for competition amongst the*
Tumwt district cricketers. The club holding the*
cup for two successive seasons will retain peases'-
sion of if....The Sydney police played crick#*
against the Nelson sailor* on the 11th, but were not
half so successful at running the tars out as
they occasionally are at " running them in.”
The Nelson men won, after a good game
501b. cod-fish caught recently to the Namoi—
Nlcolls and Dowse matched to fi*o for £10 at
Campbelltown At the Maitland Rowing Clnb
annual meeting, one of tho members suggested
that it would be a wise thing to secure the services
of a good swimmer and diver, so that in ctliV o<
any accident at the baths the body might be re-
covered without delay—naively adding that,
“When cases of drowning occurred, people objected
to bathe till the body was recovered.”—P. Doyle
put J. DeggS tbrougn in a hundred yards’ spin at
South Creek.. At Cobar, on 4th Oct., G. Best bested
C. Fitzgerald ill a 190 yards’ spin for a wager —
In Tasmania, Mr. Allred Page’s brood mare Blue
Gown ate a quantity of poisoned grain laid down
for rabbits, and died—The Clarence Tattersall’s
Jockey Club have decided to hold their annual race
meeting on Boxing Day, Instead of on New Year’s
Day. £300 added money.... The VIctorian Govern-
ment has promised to give £300 to tbe Victorian
Rifle Association as prizes* and £50 for the Queen’s
artillery prize.... Tho programme of the January
meet of the Armidale Jockey Club includes a
Maiden Plate (£50), City Handicap (£100), New Eng-
land Cup (£150), and a cup valued at £36- £400 have
been spent recently on improvement* v»tbe local
course.
• • •
A bicycle contest, eighteen hours, com-
petitors riding three hours nightly, closed July 14,
at Aberdeen, Scotland. Result: W. Perry, Wolver-
hampton, first, 368)4 miles; W. Tyre, 36644; W.
Parkes, 36044; W. Crelg, 3601-6; J. Harper, 354%;
J. Thomson, 35344 : R. Garrick, 34344 William
Muldoon, the wrestler, has taken a summer resort
In California, U.S., where he intends to carry on
business. This does not look like a visit to Aus-
tralia Johnston, the pacing sensation of 1883,
paced a mile for tho £400 purse, at Chicago, on July
19, in 3.11%—William Quinter, of Frost Valley,
Pa., is accredited with having eaten fifteen spar-
rows at one meal, and proposes to try to eat
twenty-four each day for thirty days. How the
Hon. Blank, M.L.C., must smile over the fuss made
about these linht repasts —The King of Nether-
lands Cup, i r.-sented for competition amongst
English yachtsmen, was, like the Queen’s Cup,
limited to the Royal Yacht Squadron fleet
Here is the latest development of the all-absorbing
craze. Alexander M’Donald, painter, of Antigonish,
N.S., issues the following:—“There is a man in
Antigonish who offers to play 1000 tunes on any of
four instruments, dance 1000 steps, paint 1000 life
portraits, draw 1000 patterns, and sing 1000 songs in
1000 days, finishing one in each department every
day, for six thousand dollars. I will give the world
a year to get a competitor, either by cash, muscle,
or mind.” At Newmarket (Eng.), on October 9tb,
Don Juan won the Caesarewitch Stakes, Hackness
2nd, Cosmos 3rd; on the 10th, the Middle Park
Plate fell to Busybody. Royal Fern 2nd, Sir J.
Wllloughbly’s filly by Hermit-AdeJalde 3rd; and
on the Hth, Tristan appropriated the Champion
Stakes, Osslan 2nd, and Dutch Oven 3rd An
English paper says there is little chance of the Hon.
Ivo Blign’s team playing All-England thlssummer.
— Count Lagrange is dying—Gebhardt Intends
trying his luck on the English turf next year
John Keen and R. James recently decided a twenty
miles match on the Crystal Palace track, England,
Keen allowing his opponent 40 seconds start in 30
miles. The scratch man caught up bis opponent in
the tenth mile, and up till the last circuit the pair
alternately led, when James, by a fine spurt, got
oloar. Keen was quickly after him, but failed to
get up, and was beaten by two yards- Time, Ih.
6m. 14 S-5s—Tom Ray, of Ulverstono, has Just
beaten his best pole jump by clearing ll ft. 444 in.
in height. ...On August 18, at Birmingham, Snook
(amateur) ran 501 yards in 6o sec., 1000 yards in 3 min.
30 sec., 1500 yards in 3 min. 38 1-5 sec., and would
have beaten the mile record had he gone on.
For remainder of “Referee,” see Page 17.


URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands, ana
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES. SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c7,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
FURNITURE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, anal
LAMB. O’Connell-street.
ARBLE-TOPTABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurant®
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various
and very handsome designs, with 7-feeft
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single*
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney,
Eight-pound bedroom suites.-tiuj.
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table ana
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.-Whatnots, from
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 35s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
’BRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves. 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCA8IONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c., :
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
ThRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
\J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FBET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two Laves: LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GBNT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
JARDINIERES, Parqueterle and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
WA8H8TAND8, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 30s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment; best make, low est prices.
OFFICE - FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, Iron Safes (all sizes),
Bradley. Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
TCE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
1 amine before purchatiag. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
C - OMMODE CHAIRS; BIDETS with pan;
SHAVING STANDS. Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb.
JAPANESE BLINDS, for Verandahs, 8x8, lls;
1 9 x 8,13s; 10 x 8,15s. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB.
STEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
T IFP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
Yet another witness—and an unwilling
one, too—for the~truth of Hlglnbotham’s conten-
tion that the lay intellect rebels against the Chris-
tianity of the Churches. This witness is the Living
Church (a high “ Anglican ” American journal),
and its testimony is to this effect, that never in the
world’s history (or the church’s) was there such a
dearth of Intelligent candidates for the Ministry...
Just after the recent glove-flght between M‘ Bach-
ern and Strong, a Melbourne four-year-old trotted
home and exclaimed: “Mai me an’ Jane saw a
donkey down in the 'Theological Gardens.”
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs. Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, .Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
aBrrm.n bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold’s’*
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company. 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
Srofesslon is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
i a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to these
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolph?,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlert’s
Hotel,—Ad yt.
SOCIAL.
They had been married so recently that
they hadn’t done blushing yet, and they were
drinking the bliss of the honeymoon at Sandring-
ham. Some waggish friends, calling at his “gov-
ernor’s” house, surreptitiously conveyed away
the whole contents of the card-basket, and then
sallying out to Sandringham, and finding that the
bliss-drinking pair were “in.” sent up about forty
cards at once. There are times in the lives of
warm-hearted youth when the visit of friends is
fraught with some embarrassment, but forty-
all at once I He felt white, she turned rod, and
then—they found it was a joke.
• • •
Parramatta must be proud of its new
Town Hr 11; and well it may be. There is no place
in Sydney that can compare with it for beauty and
convenience. In such a bright, new building, the
Bowing Club ball could hardly fail to be satisfac-
tory to all who went. A programme of 36 dances,
commencing with an “extra,” to allow dilatory
Seople time to arrive, was arranged by Mr. Ernest
eeds, who took charge of the floor as M C. ? and
managed it very pleasantly. Music was furnished
by Skipper’s local string band, in even style; and
Mr. Cnpps, of Parramatta, found a good supper,
which was available till the last scraggier had left
the hail, at nearly 5 in the morning. Foreseeing
that now floors are often bad ones, the committee
had taken great trouble ; the whole of the
hall floor was washed with milk till it was scrupu-
lously clean, and then spermed, with good result.
From any standpoint whatever, the hall is beauti-
ful, and a few palms and flowers set off the chastely
tinted walls, while on the edge of the platform
was a broad parterre of brilliant flowers in pots,
bouquets, and little bundles of whitey-green grass
drooping over the edge with charming effect.
Beyond, the stage extended back 35 feet, ail
couched and carpeted as a drawing-room, with
light thrown on it from the side scenes, and pier
glasses at the back. From it, looking over the
gallery at the other end, with polished seats up-
holstered in vivid crimson, one saw through a vista
of glass doors into the brilliantsupper-room at the
head of the stairs. Cloak rooms and porches below
seemed to complete everything tnatcould possibly
be wanted. Very few visitors took advantage of
fancy dress. The most salient character was that
of Miss Dunn, a Jockey, from Hyde. But she
looked more as if she was going to rydo. Her
faithful attendant was Mr. Billington, as a Boun-
dary Rider, a very good make-up, indeed; and the
pair danced well. Mr. Syd. Benson was a Cricketer,
and he would have regarded the whole affair as a
“lostball” if he had been deprived of the com-
pany of a charming ladv cricketer, to match, Miss
Woodcock. They, too, danced well. Then there
was a youthful member of the Rosehill Bi-
cycle Club, in uniform, who had tied garters
round his feet to keep his shoes on. But
his style of dancing was so remarkable that the
wonder was he didn’t tie something to keep his
feet on. Little Miss Oakes was engagingly pretty
—everyone said that-in her pink dress covered
with a multi ude of roses, and representing a
Flower Girl. Miss Minnie Cripps wore a neat
white brocho; Miss Walton, black broche; Miss
Gurney, of 8t. Peter’s, pink silk; Miss Murdoch,
also thence, a fair girl in blue trimmed with white;
and little Miss Skipper w is so pretty that we’a
like to be her first mate. She is blonde, and
locked a little shy, and her dress of pink sateen
with roses and real ferns round it made
every girl of taste promptly break the tenth com-
mandment about covetousness. Mrs. G. Tunks
wore crushed strawberry top, with a pleated panier
on one side, and cream nun’s veiling skirt; Miss
Hosklsson, of Redfern, wore a handsome pink
satin, and maroon velvet; Miss Cox, a nice pink
satin, and cardinal bows; Miss Mannix, another
pink, with stripes of ruby velvet; Miss Ashby, a
white velvet and light skirt, with d-apings of that
“persecuted fruit;” Mrs. Benson, ruby plush
bodice, and white flounced skirt; little Miss Roberts,
pale pink satin, and daisies in hair; Miss Fergusson,
of well-earned dramatic fame, personated “Caught
in the Rain,” in silk moire, of blue cloud-colour,
decked with finest white gauze; a little brunette’s
very pretty robe was of ruby velvet, one side all
in looped strings of tiny pearls, the other all in
lovely little flounces of delicate cream lace; Miss
Coombo (Sydney) was a perfect picture in claret
velvet and pink, caught with large brooches, and
golden pearls gloaming from raven hair. Miss
Doyle, of Parramatta, was a vivacious beauty in
blue satin bodice, and skirt of straw satin dis-
tractlngly bunched, with her hair coiled at the
back “a fa shilling.” From Stanmore were Misses
K. and M. Wentworth, in blue and pink hrochi,
both belles; from Ryde, Mrs. Woodcock in green;
and from the “Woolpack” a handsome young
lady, bearing the epidemic name of Smith, and
wearing a dainty dress of pink satin and tulle.
Two or three gentlemen wore various fancy
devices, and it was a decided compliment to the Par-
ramatta Rowing Club to see present the secretaries
of the Mercantile, Glebe and Balmain R.C. balls.
Among the guests were Dr. and Mr. Leslie Rowl-
ing, Mr. Squire Pye, and several well-known
who gave a look in, and Mr. A. H. Gee obliged
with a song, “The Message,” which the guests
insisted on multiplying into three, and Mr. Gee,
unable to escape, had to add “ True to the Last,’ 1
and I Seek for Thee.” And the question of best
dancer may be set at rest by saying that Miss
Needs was there.
• •
The Maitland Rowing Club had a ball, and
the committee exerted themselves to make it a
good one. The Albion Ground pavilion was pre-
pared, floor “ fixed,” and club colours (pink and
white) displayed, and a lot of decorating was done
by Mr. M’Dutf. He had evidently madelt a case of
“ lay on, M’Duff I” for no trouble had been spared,
and the sketches of jumping kangaroos we tv very
appropriate to the occasion. Mr. George Moore
catered, and the .town band played its best airs.
Fancy dresses were chosen by some, of the usual
characters, including Coquett,, Patience, Duchess
of Devonshire, Bunthorne, Queens, Courtiers,
Sailors, &c., and as the building was only comfort-
ably full, and the night fine, the quests were as
pleased with it as the committee.
• • •
The olosing Bachelors’ Assembly for this
season took place at Needs’s rooms on Friday, and
it was a fitting wind-up, and very pleasant. The
attendance of members and their lady friends
numbered about 100, and a neat programme of
eighteen (half waltzes), with two extra dances,
brought midnight. Mrs. Bentley provided the
music, and the refreshments were capital in
quality. The committee’s arrangements all through
the season have been well managed, and, if mem-
bers owe a “ Deeper ” obligation to one than any
other, it is to the hon. sec., who has worked hard.
Itwas evident, from their super-attractive appear-
ance, that the ladles had intentions on the ranks of
the bachelors. Two sisters were from the Parra-
matta River—one in a very pale pink satin
skirt, covered with fine net, ruby velvet top
with coat ends and lace elbow-sleeves ; the
other in a remarkably handsome cream satin
and broche, with waterfall back : body out
square, showing the neck covered with lace,
and tight-fitting lace sleeves. A nice quiet
dress was worn by a Jewish lady—black grenadine
and pink satin vandyked body. A blonde from
Clevoland-street danced well, in cerise colored
mama and black velvet, draped across the skirt
with a sash. A Surry Hills brunette appeared in
rich white satin and lace, Jersey gloves of deep
terra cotta—a vivid contrast—and scarlet flowers
in the hair. From Millers Point two fair maidens
came, one flying dancer in fair cashmere and satin,
embroidered with amber beads; the other In cream
cashmere and crushed strawberry. A young lady,
with rather a pretty face, wore pink nuns’ veiling
with a profusion of lace flounces in the front. A
Darllnghurst damsel donned white lustre and pink
sash ; two sisters represented Moore Park, one in
cream satin one all white ; a fine figure graced a
pretty Madras muslin, and a good dress on a lady-
like girl was blue silk and white lace. The
assembly will be re-formed next year.
John Sands and Co.’s annual firm picnic
took place at Clontarf on Saturday. Telephone
took all hands down, with the Excelsior Band; and
oysters and dancing were soon attacked. Com-
pagnoni catered, and a dozen races were run. At
the banquet, Mr. 8. Carter filled the chair of
honour, having Mr. Robert Sands (the “ firm ”) by
his side, and speeches were made by speakers who
felicitated themselves and everyone else on every-
thing in general, just as picnic people always do
under the jocund influences of a good dinner.
Miss Sands presented the prizes, and the party
reached town about 7 o’clock.
* ♦ •
To-day a show opens in the Exhibition,
for which it is hard to find a name. It Includes
horticultural show, bazaar, music, gymnastics,
shop b assaults-at-arms, tennis, and art, and will be
one of the greatest novelties that the mind of man
can conceive. It is in aid of the building fund of
St Thomas’s Church, North Shore, and as silver-
tail society has consented to smile on the show, and
ladies will assist with their bewildering wiles, we
expect the promoters will get enough money to
build St. Thomas’s church nearly up to the skies.
♦ ♦ *
On Tuesday, the 9th October, an enjoyable
party took place at Kogarah, given by a few ladies
and gentlemen of the district. To the dulcet tones
of a harp and violin, the dancers, of whom there
were some half hundred, took the floor 34 times;
and it was nearly 4 o’clock when tho party ended.
• • ■
On Saturday, the Art Society’s Exhibition
closed, in tho Town Hall. Mr. Coombes, president,
made a short address, commending the sociebv to
notice, as it intended to keep pegging—or, rather,
painting—away; and announced that some pro-
fessor of the sister art—music—had offered assist-
ance. A concert then followed, Mr. Ch. Huener-
beln, Madame Marius, Miss Turnei, Herr Francik,
Messrs. Hallewcll and Bushelle as-istlng. There
was also music in the evening. A large number of
the pictures have found purchasers, and the vesti-
bule was granted free of charge by the Council
during the exhibition.
Chowder Bay was picked for the first
annual picnic of the Sydney Football Club. Tho
Meteor was packed on each trip, and tho German
Band played each way, and for tho dancers also.
These latter, however, wore in the minority—an
unusual thing at a picnic. Probably the excellence
of the sports accounted for it: but, anyhow, the
young footballers on this occasion seemed to be
more athletic than romantic in their tastes. All
kinds of races took place, as well as drop-kicks,
place-kicks, and other kicks; in fact, the trophies
being of that kind which the recipients always,
protest they prize “ more for their associations
than for their intrinsic value,” the competitors
shared “ more kicks than ha’pence.” In the pavi-
lion afterwards, the president, Mr. Watkin Wynne,
gave the prizes—to each winner the one that ho
won, with a few remarks to show he respects a
man “watkin wynne” a prize. He also handed
to Mr. Crisp (captain) a presentation frame of the
first twenty’s photos; and Mr. Ballhausen (secre-
tary), who managed tho affair well, rooelvod a tea
and coffee service. Bu t dancing was not neglected,
for its lovers went conscientiously througu twenty
items. Two programmes, one tor sports and the
other dancing, were neatly prepared. Dusk saw
all starting home.
• • •
A grand return ball, on the 9th i ictober,
was given to Mr. and Mrs. Jonn Moore, for their
Mayoral hospitality in February last, when the
railway opened to Artuidale. It was largely
attended—plain and fancy dress—and the new
Town Hail, just finished, looked splendid. His
Honor Judge Windeyer and several legal gen-
tlemen were present. At supper in the old hall,
leading out on one side, Mr. Sydney Bligh pro-
posed the health of the Mayor and Mrs. Moore.
The leading set was composed of the Mayor and
Mrs. Yates, Judge Wlndeyer and Mrs. Davies, Mr.
and Mrs. J. J. Moore, and Mr. L. Yates, P. VI., and
Mrs. John Moore, junr. These ladies wore re-
spectively black, sage green, pale pink, and ecru ;
Miss Wlndeyer, white satin ; Mrs. J. Orridge,
black silk ; Miss Simpson, pale blue satin, me
Rev. Archdeacon Ross smiled placidly, Doctors
Wigan and Sheldon were there, also Mr. Surveyor
Chard, and the C.P.S.’s of Uralla and Walcha. An
Indian Chief, Maritana, Britannia, were the prin-
cipal fancy characters. At nearly 5 o’clock the
ball ended.
• * *
On Thursday last, the annual picnic of the
Produce Merchants’ Protective Association was
held at the Sir Joseph Banks’ Pavilion, Botany,
some of the excursionists going out by tram, some
by ’bus, and others by private vehicles, but all
finding luscious oysters ad lib. and porter awaiting
them on arrival. Thus fortified, they set to on the
business of the day, which consisted of pleasure.
Gaiety was not of a gushing character for the first
hour or two, but later on fresh consignments of
merrymakers came out, and the afternoon was
lively with plenty of fun. That was after lunch.
It is very peculiar how different men and women
can be after a good lunch; but they are. Mr. John
Booth presided. Mr. John Graham proposed
“Parliament,” to which Messrs. Clarke and
See suitably replied. The toast of “ Importers and
Commission Agents” was given by Mr. P. K.
Larkin, and Mr. W. F. Martin enlarged on the
“ Produce Merchants’ Protective Association.”
The speeches were all very much to tho point, and
very interesting, and their general gist was some-
what as follows:—“I am tho prouaest man here
to-day. And why is this so I Because, Mr. Chair-
man and ladies and gentlemen, the latur mer-
chants respect me.” Mr. Abigail toasted “The
Ladies,” for whom he professed a warm regard:
whatcould the Association produce without them '(
But all the produce men remained silent. And
the gentlemen who undertook to do Justice to the
“ Press,” said more for it lu two minutes than a
Judge would say all day. Then daucing was re-
sumed, and with good music rnd partners the time
was spent till dusk. It may be said, the juveniles
had their dinner first, to the accompaniment ot a
Punch and J udy Show, and it proved a convenient
plan.
* « * *
At Yass, on the 5th October, a return ball was
given to Mr E. A. Iceton, the Mayor in the
Mechanics’ Institute. There was a genial smooth-
ness about the affair that made ev vryoue enjoy it.
The professions and the trades mixed together as
nicely as cards in a pack. The Mayor and the past
Mayor, and quite a number of future Mayors, all
smiled on one another—and the ladles. Fair ones
in fancy dress fluttered like butterflies in a bower;
one was Grace Darling, and either name would suit
her by itself. A Bed Cross Nurse, a Nun, and a
Sister of Charity were shockingly gay. Miss Malr
wore a pretty white costume and pale blue flow-
ers ; Miss Paterson, a tasteful dress ; Miss Lily
Pembroke, white satin broche and blue wreath.
Miss Dodds was La Mascotte ; her little sister was
Bopeep; Miss 8. Pembroke, an Italian Flower
Girl; Miss Dickson, Phillis in “ilolanthe ;” Miss
Harper, a Polish Peasant. Misses Thompson, Pem-
broke, MoLerie, Allman, Mrs. A. Wood, auu Mrs.
O. Poplin were all charmingly attired. Refresh-
ments were liberal and and luscious ; music just
tol-lol only ; and the hon. secs., Messrs. Pembroke
and Addison, were happy to think that after the
programme was exhausted tho guests wanted
more.
• * • «
At Inglewood (Vio.) a curious robbery was
perpetrated on a farmer’s daughter, aged 17. Tho
old folks i were away at night, and the robber en-
tered her bedroom and cut off her splendid
auburn hair without waking her. Barbarous vil-
lain!.... At Coolah, Mr. A. T. Cox lately gave a
fancy dress party to about two score guests —At
Largs School ot Arts, on the 5th, the bachelors
gave a good ball, notwithstanding bad weather.
Mr. D. J. Hickey was a good M. C., and the dresses
were pretty. Tie for bell between a brunette from
Maitland, a fair from Bellevue and a charmer from
Narrowgut (we can’t help it now) ; but the last
was considered to have the best chance, even under
the crushing handicap of such a name —
Indian servants are imported to order in Mel-
bourne ,by a certain Arm, from Goa. T bey do
well, it is said. They come under a legal five
years’ agreement, ami are examined by a Govern-
ment health officer on arrival— Ou Monday week,
Underciill, North Shore, was the scene of a nice
party. The young hostess, Miss Hickey, looked
well—after her guests. Miss Houston in a pretty
flowered sateen, Miss Chapman in black let in with
red, danced well; and a demure maiden in pink
occupied the piano-stool with sweet complaisance
most otthe evening. The programme of twelve
dances was done twice, and a waterman came to
the rescue of Sydney revelers—Uralla bachelors
and maids, giving up lawn tenuis, &c., have inaugu-
rated riding parties, which go off most happily
Mrs. Yates, wife of the Police Magistrate, Armi-
dale, entertained at dinner on Friday evening, His
Honor Mr. Justice Wlndeyer, Miss Wlndeyer, and
a large party of friends at “Shantaila.”....Last
week, the first concert of the Tamworth Lieder-
tafel was given, and was very promising. It com-
prised the cantata “ Esther/’ and a miscellaneous
part. Mr. 8. F. Moore, as the conductor, was loudly
called on when the curtain fell, and much credit
was his due. Esther was taken by Miss Hartley,
and Ahasuerus by Mr. Hunt, both doing extremely
well; the other characters and choruses being
creditable. Mr. Thomas King Invited the per-
formers to a refection at the Royal at t ho close of
the evening. ... Dr. R. A. Stirling, of Melbourne,
married Miss T. Appleton, of Geelong. Honey
moon to Sydney.... Mr. Walter Bird’s majority was
celebrated on the 9th, by a ball, at Nithsdale rooms.
About 80 guests were present. Mrs. Bentley played
the dances excellently, and the party dispersed
about 3 a.m. Compagnonl catered; but there was
nearly no catering at all, owing to a mistake in
the date, discovered at 7 o’clock—Anew freak
of fashionables is to wear servants’cottons Mr.
B. C. Boake has shown us some beautiful portrait#
of the well-known cantatrlce. Madame Marius
On Monday night last, Sir John Robertson’s birth-
day was celeorated at the Reform Club by a
dinner Government House bazaar netted, in the
three days, a good deal over £1000 for the interest-
ing Melanesian persons. Remnants of stock were
sold by auction, in the ball-room, on Tuesday
Journalists have formed a Savage Club in Adelaide.
....The Bachelors’Assembly intend to mark the
dose of their season by a picnic to Tennyson, on Sa-
turday, 37; steamer going from Quay at half-past 1.
The Buffalos marked their anniversary at the
Cambridge Club, on the 11th instant, by demolish-
ing an excellent dinner which Rainford put on the
tables. Toasts, songs, and recitations Miss Alice
Sydney Burvett, not a stranger in these colonies,
held a fine concert in Piccadilly recently, under the
patronage of the Duke and Duchess of Manchester.
... Mrs. Reed, matron of Toowoomba Hospital for
31 years, died of cancer. .. Mrs. E. W. Rudder, one
of the oldest residents on the Macleay, died, aged
81... Whereas, Mr. Lewis Lewis, of 8a"ahurst,
attained his 100th birthday last week, and his wife is
now 83, and there is no sign of dissolution what-
ever. Both are natives of Kent, and they have
had seventeen children. They celebrated their
diamond (or 60th) wedding in October, 1881—
Mr. F. G.Symes, sub-collector of Customs at Cook-
town, received a watch, a complimentary dinner,
and other trifles on leaving that place, promoted.
Ladies present at dinner... Bishop Hale was enter-
tained at a conversazione, Bundaberg A lawn
tennis match took place on the club ground, Bast
Maitland, lately, between tho local club and a team
from Muswellbrook. The East Maitland men, how-
ever, cunningly beguiled their visitors to luncheon
before play commenced, and of course beat
them After a day’s sport the Duugog
Oddfellows held a bad in the School of
Arts Professor West Intends building a
large dancing hail at the corner of Hyde Park
Many must have heard with deep regret that Miss
Rosalind Amy, daughter of Mr. R. Wisdom, died
on 8th October, In Sydney, aged 31. Also, that Mr.
Alfred Bennett, of me News, lost his two youngest
sons, Walter and Harrie, within three days, by
diphtheria, at Rose Bay.....At South Apsley, in
the West, two septuagenarians left. Mr. Rowland
passed at 6 in the evening, and at midnight his
wife went On Saturday week, after a Jong
illness, Mr. E. J. f C. North, police magistrate at
Carcoar, died, leaving a widow and a family of
four. He had seep 33 years' public service, resided
40 years in Carcoar district, and his father was for
foine years Water Police magistrate in Sydney
Mr. Vv. H. Nash, of Christ Church, played a fine
selection on the University organ on Saturday
afternoon. Fair attendance—Mr. Feilberg, editor
of Brisbane Courier, elected president of the
.lohn-onian Cluo there—A servant girl at Wel-
lington, N sentenced to a week’s imprisonment
for wearing her mistress’ dress at a ball. So take
care, Susan.... Mudgee spinsters going to give tho
gentlemen back their ball . . On Friday, 5th Oct.,
Mr. Coughran, of the Royal Hotel, Kiama, gave a
dance, Mr. and Mrs. J. Davies being among the
f ueats. And the same night there was an Odd-
eilow's Ball, when some pretty dresses were
shown, and Mrs. Tory in cream satin was belle....
Down South, the bazaar mania has spread to Ger-
rlngongj where the School of Arts was made the
scene of wheedling in aid of the Congregational
Church. The room was adorned with (flowers of
burrawangs, and, among other fancy goods, some
very fine bacon was sold.. . An International Fair,
In aid of the Convalescent Home, was opened on
Saturday at Adelaide by Lady Robinson. Biggest
there yet : 8000 in first day There are to be ex-
cursions to Fern Bay on Saturday afternoons
throughout the Summer, a band accom-
panying. Their success must depend
entirely on the way they are conducted—
At Singleton, Mr. and Mrs. G. Loder were compli-
mented by a ball....At Wagga, an Owl Club has
started, and first hoot was in Hely’s rooms a few
nights back At Inverell, they are calling one
another names over the Hospital Ball, and say the
Catholics have been slighted. Yerra!....At Ballarat
Mr. Tl Food spent £34 in importing a wife from
China, and now he’s a lunatic. Anyhow, she has
proved a real ty-phoon to him....Engineering
Association cleared £750 by their conversazione.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Randwick Soiree. Oct. 18
Flower Show and Bazaar (Exhibition) Oct. 18
Catholic Bachelors’ Annual Ball (Nithsdale).Oot. 19
Floral Show and Bazaar opens (Ashfleld) — Oct. 19
Ivanhoe Assembly Annual Ball (Town Hall)..Oct. 19
Fancy Fair opens (Town Hall) Oct. 33
Kobt. Burns Lodge Masonic Picnic (Botany)...Oct. 34
Return Ball to Mr. Sturt (Horaebush) Nov. 1
Mr. A. Read’s Annual Ball (Newtown) Nov. 5


XX XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX X X
XXX X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
JUST LOOK IN OUR WINDOWS XX
TO-DAY XX
for the very best Show anywhere XX
of STRAW GOODS, XX
also of HOSIERY. XX
HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
211, Pitt-street. XX
XX
XX
EW GOODS IN THE MILLINERY XX
DEPARTMENT. XX
XX
Untrimmed Hats, commencing at 6d XX
Bi
XX each, including all the new and fashion- XX
XX able shapes. We have has many as 500 XX
XX Hats of a shape, and 300 different shapes. XX
XX Amongst them are the Empress, Duoh- XX
XX ess. Queen, Brighton, Gem, Alexandria, XX
XX Carlingford, Rosalind, Priucess, Spring, XX
XX Sunbeam, Countess, and hundreds of XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Xx
b
XX
XX
XX
XX
others.
In Trimmed Millinery we have hun-
dreds of different styles, in every shape
and material. Our 10s. 6d. Trimmed
Bonnets are admitted to surpass all
Sydney at 15s. We have over 100 Trim-
med Bonnets at 10s 6d.
OUR GUINEA BONNET 18 REALLY
A GEM.
We make a speciality of our Guinea
Bonnet, and it bears comparison with
others.
MILLINERS’ BONNETS at 35s.
We employ first-class French and
XX English milliners, with over 100 assist- XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
ant milliner’s.
XX The Flower Department embraces all
XX the flowers you can think of. Beautl-
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
ful new fruit sprays and wreaths,
beautiful new flower sprays and
wreaths.
All the new tints in Feathers,
in Tips and Long Flats,
Beads, Buckles, and Hat Ornaments
in endless variety.
The Mantle Department is replete
with all the Newest Styles and Fashions.
SATIN BROCHE DOLMANS, FOUR-
IN-HAND, LACE and BROCHE
CAPES, LADIES’ and CHILDREN’S
DUST COATS,
SILK, SATIN, SATEEN, and PRINT
XX COSTUMES.
XX A good Sateen Print Costume at 4s 6d.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
s
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
The Parachute Department this season
is beyond description. We only men-
tion that we have pretty Parachutes for
firls at Is; and that we have Ladies’
arachutes from Is lid to 40s, in sateen,
satin, broche, moire, lace, lace-trimmed,
xx plain silk, brown silk, black silk, Zen- XX
XX nella, Brazilian, gilt and plain ribs— XX
XX direct from the manufacturers.
YX
XX WE BUY AT HOME
XX FOR READY MONEY.
XX
XX Therefore we (an
XX SELL to you
XX at
XX THE LOWEST,
XX THE VERY LOWEST, PRICES.
XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS,
XX 311 Pitt-street,
XX Drapery Importers.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX /CLOVES. GLOVES. GLOVES. XX
XX VT XX
XX Our Glove Department is now com- XX
XX plete with a very extensive variety of XX
XX novelties in every conceivable make XX
and colour, just arrived, ex s.s. Lusi- XX
tania. XX
Our 4-Button French Kid Gloves at XX
2s lid are unrivalled for perfection in XX
fit, durability, and cheapness. XX
We sell Calvat’s 1st choice Kid Gloves, XX
at least 30 per cent, cheaper than any XX
other house in Sydney, and guarantee
them to wear well.
You can always obtain Bargains in
Gloves at HORDERNS’ in Pitt-street,
because the marvellous development of
our rapidly-increasing trade in Gloves,
as well as every other branch of our
business, enables us to procure such
enormous quantities of goods direct
from the manufacturers, so that our
London and Continental Buyers are in a
position to keep us well supplied with
all the prettiest novelties the world can
XX produce at prices which defy competi- XX
XX tion. XX
XX N.B.—Country orders well attended to. XX
XX XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
XX 311, Pitt-street. XX
XX . .■ XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
NX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
x xxxxxxxxxxxxXxxxxxxxxxxx XX
THE
T B I D U N E.
"Cl ROM
D. KEELEY and CO.’S PORTABLE GAS.
A good deal of contradiction has arisen of late
in respect to the supply and use of the above gas.
The purchaser of the assets of the Patent Portable
Gas Company has, we ar- Informed, issued circu-
lars at Yass and other inland towns, intimating
that the proper fluid for generating portable gas
c m only be had from him. So far from this being
the case, we are advised that Messrs. D. Keeley and
Co. have made arrangements for an unlimited
quantity of the fluid, and are in a position to
guarantee a supply from one month to five years
to anyone requiring it. Further, the portable gas
burners sold by the firm are the original burners
made by the Portable Gas Company (Limited); but
Messrs. D. Keeley and Co. have in addition to that
an admirable burner, suitable for sewing and read-
ing purposes, for which they purchased at public
auction the sole right for New South Wales. The
fluid suitable for burning therein is the purest
sample of benzine (lately named by Mr. R. C.
Dixon, 16, ’Change-alley, now traveller for D.
Keeley and Co.) ” Heptlline.” With the exception,
therefore, of some few cases recently purchased
from Mr. R. C. Dixon by the liquidator on behalf
>>f the Portable Gas Company, and sold by them
with the assets of the company to the party re-
ferred to, it appears Messrs. D. Keeley and Com-
pany have the whole thing pretty well in their own
hands. Mr. D. Keeley’s indefatigable and upright
conduct being pretty well known throughout the
land, as well as his thorough knowledge of the
business, augurs for him a good future. Mr. D.
Keeley is the only person that exhibited his lamps
and fluid before the Insurance companies, and
which were passed conditionally by them, accord-
ing to the rules of each office, and any lamp leav-
ing the establishment of the firm will bear their
brand, Keeley and Co„ 71. Goulburn-street, Sydney.
Persons burning other fluids which ha ve not been
Sassed by the insurance companies will therefore
o so at their own risk.
JOHN SANDS’
ART GALLERY,
374 QEOBGE STREET, ,j
Next Post Office.
THE first Spring EXHIBITION of OIL and
WATER-COLOUR PAINTINGS, by eminent
English, Continental, and Colonial Artists, is NOW
OPEN, M above, from 10 till 6.
ADMISSION FREE.
SPUING MEETING,
Derby
Melbourne Cup
Oaks
Steeplechase . .
November 3.
W
Return Tickets from Sydney, available
for two months, ilrst class £5 6 6
—
Madame anna king
CHARACTER PARTS and HEAVIES
(Town only).
Lady Dedlock, Hortense. Mrs. Cretan, Madame
Deschapelles, &c., &c.
Communications invited from Managers.
Address—Care of Mr. J. SOUTH,
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
NOW open for engagement at NYNGEN, near
Railway Station, the
a large and well-appointed HALL. Apply t«
Bulletin Hotel.
“ ASSEMBLY ROOMS,'
HEARD & M'KKNN.A, Agent*.
Sydney, 16th October.
Dear Belle,—The social event of last week was
the bazaar |at Government House. It was very
much like any other bazaar, except In being ex-
ceedingly decorous, and free from the objection-
able dragging and pulling one so often sees at such
affairs. I looked in vain for anything novel,
either among the articles for sale or in the methods
of disposing of them. It was quite a hum-drum
affair, we went on the opening day, hoping to
avoid a crush, as the price of admission was higfiest
on that day. In this hope we were also disap-
pointed, as the room (long And tiarroW like the
grave of BArbara Allen’s young man), was crowded)
Chiefly with ladies—there Were not rildriy gentle-
men present. The Stalls were perfect boWers of
greenery, and IdokM vdry pretty; The only dis-
tinguishing feature in the wares was the nuniber
rtf handpainted plaques. At Lady Augustus
XjOitris’ stall were some painted by her ladyship.
There were also baskets of wild flowerS, which
torind a ready sale at fifteen Shillings for
each basket! Lady IfincS had Some pretty
wait brackets; and a beautiful ouShion of
Slack Satin worked With a pattern ot gold-coloured
owdrs, which I Saw being carried off by winner,
was, I thiiik, from Lady Innes’ stall. At Lady
Stephen’s table I saw some statuettes of Pope Leo.
Mrs. J, Spilth and Mrs. E. O. Moriarty dealt in china
Arid glassware; they had some very pretty orna-
ments. Mrs. Henry Moore had a number of paint-
ings, iffost of them marked 44 sold ” very soon after
the opening of the bazaar. At Mrs. Laldley’s table
there were baskets of confectionery, which looked
very tempting; and here some little girls drove a
brisk trade in button-hole bouquets, very nicely
arranged. Altogether, I should say the heathen
ought to be well supplied with Bibles and
44 moral pocket handkerchiefs ” for some time,
and should be no longer like the little vulgar
boy in the “Ingoldsby Legends,” who 44 had no
little handkerchief to wipe his little nose.”
Lady Augustus wore black (as did most of the
elder ladies) ; her dress was striped satin. Most
of the young lady assistants were in cream or
white—pretty, simple drosses, with fanciful aprons,
of course. Mrs. J. Smith s was the most re-
markable of the stallholders’ costumes. It Wtl8
pale pink satin, with pearl) Buttons, bonnet with
Mink feather. Aifiofig the visitors were many
beautiful drtSSCS ; the richest, perhaps, that of
MW. 8, TBrry, Brown satin, with panels and
ftfid drapery of lovely flowered patterri of large
Velvety-looking pansies, Bonnet trimmed with
pansies. Anotfier very handsome one wad of gol-
den brown broche. There ward Several White
lawns. The prettiest Had d capo of Same
material. A. ereaifl edShniere of nun’s veiling, the
ttodiee and di’Apery striped with pink, Princess
fiennet Of crushed strawberry; was a dharmingly
Mr©tty Costume. The yourig lady who looked so
handsome at the School of Industry Ball,
wore here a handsome and very con-
spicuous dress of bright white and erinlson.
Checked silks were numerous, and I saw some
fantastic hats. A most elegant costume I must
ttot forget; it was a long redingdte Of Black Otto-
man over a skirt of Black arid old gdld striped
satin; and a black Broohe With pompons hanging
all along the bdcS of the sleeves, and the basques
rtf the ROdiee like little bells, must not be omitted.
A good many gentlemen took the responsibility of
helping to sell the things* Brit they were scarcely
Wise, as I don’t think anybody ever buys things afc
a bazaar because he really wants them, but
because a pretty girl asks him. Hence the gentle-
men’s solicitations were not welcome, except to—
perhaps—some ladles ; but it is not from ladles
pockets bazaars are supported. The two bands
played continuously, and in a tent you eould get
refreshments On the laWm
..arrmnni
£ust fAndy a lady taking the trouble to write
Som Paris to the Echo to tell us that
egatttes there have steels fastened in the back of
lilie skirt, instead of wearing crinolettes. We must
be super-elegant here in Sydney, for we have been
having steels in our skirts for months. This kind
lady also informs us that satinettes with borders
representing races, jockeys in different colours,
hunts, &c., are appearing 1 Why, they have been
on view in our principal shops here since the be-
ginning of Spring. You can read this curiosity of
literature i i last Saturday’s Echo. I should like
to know in what quarter of Paris this lady resides.
Or whether she lives on the suburban line.
Such a charming Jew Mr. Polk makes of himself
in “Sam’lo’ Posen,” that you feel quite affectionate
to ah the race while looking at him. I don’t rfieaU
that hi i appearance is charming) thbrigh he makes
tip well; but hd makes tile young Hebrew such a
thow ode* he makfi his nose so Israelltlsh, I wonder ?)
ffelightfill 8haracter. In the circle, two or three
MSfaam dresses were the only ones at all noticeable
—one was satin, the others nun’s veiling. Miss
Julia Merton, as Mademoiselle Blanche, wears a
handsome pink satin dress in the second act, and
all Miss Adele’s are pretty, especially a walking
costume of bluish grey.
The members of the Alexandria Cricket Club
gave a dance at the Protestant Hall on Friday
evening last, at which there were about fortv pre-
sent. It was a very pleasant affair, and would have
been a great deal pleasanter If there had not been
suoh long Intervals between the dances. Many
were obliged to leave before half the programme
had been got through. The trophies were presented
and the speeches in presenting them and returning
thanks took up a tremendous time* tod. (They say
enough about women’s idf e of talking; Brit I don’t
think it Is ariything like the eagerness, the mania,
todst men Seem to nave for public speaking.) The
ttrtphies were all very handsome. Mr, John Mac-
intosh was the lucky winner of four—a tea and
coffee service the chief. Mr. James Macintosh had
the handsomest of all—a silver cup of very pretty
design. Mr. Ellis had a set of dish-covers; Mr. Mor-
timer, Mr. M‘Dowell, and Mr. Smithers were the
remaining prize-winners. Mr. Magney sang “Our
Jack’s come home to-day” in tones that showed
athletics must assuredly be good for the lungs-
Encouraging! Mr. Teece reciied 44 Over the hills
to the poor-house.” It was very well done, but I
didn’t care for the piece much. We were obliged
to leave before the other songs and recitations,
owing to the waits I mentioned. The refreshments,
which were good and abundant, were served in a
room formed by curtaining off one side of the hall
with flags. There were a few pretty dresses on
the oocason. The best, I think, were a bodice with
long coat tails of pale blue plush, over a petticoat
Of oroam colour. A cream silk with sleeves and
trimming of satin the same colour, and high collar.
Another pretty cream was satin with India muslin
paniers and tartan sash. A pale blue, with drapery
of some slivery-looking material, was very nice.
The wearer of a rather grotesque combination of
blue and crushed strawberry was a great deal
prettier than her costume; she, however, stood
fast to her colours, for she carried them consistently
down to her conspicuous feet. There were several
white dresses, all more or less pretty. The pro-
f-rammes were nicely got up, and the music, con-
rlbuted by Volunteers, answered its purpose very
well. Altogether, the Alexandra outbreak was
satisfactory.
The Block, on Saturday morning last, like the
course of true love, did not run smooth; on the
contrary, it was uncommonly rough (it is always
narrow enough, as you know), as tho flags had
been torn up for repairs or something just at the
corner near King-street. There were, however, a
great many ladies out, and some smart toilettes,
too. One pretty costume was worn by an attrac-
tive-looking young lady—I think, a bride; and, I
also think, a strange r. Everybody turned round
to admire her, or her dress—per naps both. The
dress was navy-blue, a long redingote over plush
skirt—a perfect figure; small round straw hat.
Another beautiful costume was black broche. A
blue and white check, with gathered bodice, looked
simple and pretty. Another check had bunches of
blue and pink ribbons fastened here and there all
over it. There were multitudes of checks, chiefly
frey, white, and black and white. The other day
saw a dross which looked like a fancy costume;
It nad funny little knots of coloured ribbons all
over it. Everybody wears a bunch of ribbons
now. Lady Augustus Loftus had a breastknot of
different coloured ribbons fastened in the front of
her dress at the bazaar. She looked a nice, kind,
motherly old soul, with her apron on, playing
with the children. Many of the dresses now
have small capes of the same material as the dress.
I hope those high-crowned hats will not get to be
fashionable. There are a good many of them
about. Miss Moore wore a brown one, with a tuft
of feathers, at the Bazaar, and I saw two or three
white ones. Some dresses have a great many rows
©f ribbon velvet on the skirts. The weather has
been so changeable since Spring commenced, that
we have had no chance of wearing our new
dresses. Never mind, we’ll all come out like
butterflies with the warm weather. Mind, get a
White lawn dress for summer.
Good-Bye, now. Did I tell you that WO are to
hrive a Comic Opera Company next Saturday ?
The dtess-clrcle will BO gay once more at the
Royal.
Touts
MAB.
Coming Events.
[BY PEGASUS.]
To 44 follow my hand,” as I think they say at skit-
tles, I ought to cast in my 44 tile” among the
three-year-olds this time, and so I suppose I must;
although the Derby has seemed of late days
to be almost a foregone conclusion for Archie,
who to my mind ought to be the real Simon Pure
on this occasion, if the Warwick Farm string is
going to make its mark this season in any degree
commensurate with the costly nature of the
goods. The colt, when running off his two-year-
old engagements, had all the look of a Derby nag,
being gifted with a commanding style of going,
good looks, and lots of size, with room to improve;
and though I’ve not seen him lately, I can quite
understand that the friends of his stable are
knowing enough not to bring him to his short
Winter and Spring price if he had done nothing to
warrant it in improvement and work. For my own
part, I thoroughly believe in the bond fldes of
those folk who have supported Archie for this
event, having in my own mind little doubt that
he has shown them a good thing, for which
reason coupled with his last season’s per-
formances. I shall take him as my pre-
sent pick for the V.R.C. bide rlbilnd* which is
to bd run for Ort this Saturday fortnight* the 3rd of
November. This opinion goes forth in the hope
and expectation of seeing Mr. Smart’s favourite
reach the post 44 pink;” and I pray the good fates
presiding over Flemington training grounds to put
a decided veto on any 44 watch business being
dond With the Ddrby Crack between now and the
day; His trainer should by this time' know full well
what his capabilities are to 44 break a watch,” and
I’m sure there’s no occasion to be sending him
ding-dong over FleiUington just to let the' touts
think they know aS much aS the stable. That’s the
greatest mistake in the world: but for all that* its
just the one I’m always most frightened of seeing
made by trainers, who get excited as the great day
of trial draws nigher and nigher. I need say no
more concerning Archie save that his stable should
know something about him now after the per-
fOrrriande of Delusion in the race for the Caulfield
Guineas.
Martini-Henry has always held a forward position
in the market, if not, indeed, in public favour, by
reason of his grand winning pedigree, whicli, I
may say, is positively magnificent on both sides;
and no one can shut his eyes to the great danger
to be anticipated from a son of the mare that gave
us Goldsbrough and Robin Hood, and got by the
well-proved English sire Musket. Going, as I do,
always for sons, daughters, and sisters of winners,
with their cousins and aunts, to any far away
pblnt of relationship, I can’t conceive of anything
short of lameness) Or illness of some very pro-
nounced type, that Can prevent a eolt so bred from
taking a leading position in any company i and I
fully expect the young New Zealand off-shoot to
finish very close to the front. It’s only fair to say,
though, that 1 much prefer public running to any
other criterion; and no one can deny that the
Rapidity colt showed out to more advantage last
season than any other that sported silk. Remem-
bering all the good animals I’ve seen brought here
from New Zealand to race for our money, I’m
bound to reverence a racehorse from that colony
whenever he is thought good enough to try con-
clusions with the best on this side; and it’s by no
means often that a youngster of such commanding
pedigree is possessed by our neighbours, with all
the extra concomitants of good looks, and the luck
to be bred in the finest climate of the Southern
Hemisphere. For all this, however, I pin my
faith, up to now) on Archie.
Off Oolduft who is a right bred one, has also per-
formed well Up to his pedigree) arid ori each occa-
sion of appearing in public He met good performers,
who held the lead in public opinion. I’m quite in
the dark as to what reasons may have led to the
recent up-and-down nat ire of the betting with
regard to Mr. Branch’s colt; but, at any rate, he
seems to have been knocked about a good deal,
with very small reason, and his stable is a very
difficult one to get much information out of. Sup-
posing this colt to run in the Derby up to his last
season’s form, there’s nothing in that to indicate
that he can beat Archie at Tits best; and I think
the general idea is that Archie’s form was better
than Warwick’s, but there’s nothing in either of
these colts’ performances to give a line between
them and the “dark” Martini-Henry; and Warwick
being out of the hunt, all we can do, in his absence,
is to gauge the relative capabilities of those that
have been seen in public. Of these, the most
prominent at present are Archie and Off Colour
—there being to me no knowledge, good, bad, or
indifferent, as to what Will be deputed to carry
the 44 black and all black” of Mf. do Mestre—
though, of course, he will have one representative,
if not more.
Sardius, who won the Caulfield Guineas on
Saturday, beating Delusion, Ike, and, as 1 suppose,
a fair field behind them, has earned the rignt to
some consideration for the Derby, if only from
having beaten Mr. Forrester's filly, who at times
has been considered a pretty good one; and I
notice that South Australia is steadily becoming
more and more dangerous when great Australian
meetings are cn. This colt has a good strain
of Sir Hercules in him, his sire, Emulation, being—
a big black horse—purchased by the late Mr.
Richard Holland from Mr. Frank Reynolds, and
got by The Barb from Modesty. Emulation ran
once or twice pretty well in Victoria, at two years
old; but, somehow, he never improved afterwards,
and didn’t work up his sire’s reputation. There’s
no reason, however, why the good old Sir Hercules
strain shouldn’t come out in this generation, though
The Barb did not largely bestow his wonderful
powers on his immediate offspring. As a two-
year-old Sardius appears to have started three
times without winning, though twice running
second: and this season he has scored a win at
Adelaide before leaving his home for Melbourne.
His victory last Saturday at Caulfield is sure to
bring him up to a short price for the Derby, and
so give the Professors ’’ a good chance to 44 lay ”
another horse, as he is sure to be backed, more or
less, either by the S.A. contingent or a certain
class of speculators who are always on the look-
out for some new-comer to invest on.
Taking it altogether, the Derby will still be an
interesting race, notwithstanding it does not con-
tinue to possess the fair proportions that appeared
to belong to it a few weeks ago; and as a natural
consequence the double-event wagering, usually
so largely Indulged in at enticing prices to backers,
has almost assumed the look of single business.
Of course the rush has been to back Archie, with
First Demon, Despot, or Le Grand for the Cup;
and as the first has been at even money, or
thereabout, with the Cup favourites at 100
to 8 or 7 ; the shortening of double prices
needs no explanation, or even that such
doubles can’t be obtained at any price. There
is one curious feature in this year's V.R.C. Derby
surroundings, and that is that three of the best
three-year-olds ot the season, if not the absolute
best trio, are absent from the ranks, a state of
things 1 never before remember to have been exis-
tent ; and it is matter for great regret that Le
Grand, First Demon, and Bristol are not among
the likely starters. Their presence would give
rise to a fine lot of speculation, which at present
is not likely to be brought about.
As for coming events in general, and taki n g a
broad view of them, it does not appear that New
Seuth Wales and Victoria have many good hoisos
to the fore, when the three-year-olds are done
with; and I anticipate seeing the old division come
off only second best at most in the Flemington
Struggles.
LATEST SPORTING.
Backers of stables, and aristocratically bred and
tried youngsters, have received another facer
in the withdrawal of Superba from the Marlbyr-
nong Plate. Months ago this filly was backed to
win a pot of money, and at one time held the posi-
tion or favourite for Victoria’s great two-year-old
r ce; but for some weeks past it has been palpable
to the touts that she was not what people expected,
and the pen has been run through her name in
consequence. The stable, in ray opinion, boasts
of at least two better youngsters.
It is pleasing to note that the gate and booth
privileges for the Wollongong meeting have real-
ised exceptionally high prices, the gross amount
being £320, of which the entrance gate brought
£167.
A race club has been started at Nyngan, so a cor-
respondent informs me, and I will have more to say
about it next week.
The much talked of Recovery, about whose
bapabillties opinions differ so much, left for Mel-
bourne On Monday afternoon last, Mr. Kelso being
In charge, rind arrived at his destination on Tues-
day. The party behind Recovery are pretty-
sanguine as to his show in the Melbourne Cup* and,
as they don’t often err when they plank down
their coin, it may turn Out that this latest purchase
is far from being a bad thirig.
The Maribyrnong Plate 44 crack,” King’s Own, is
said, on good authority, to have done a sensational
gallop against 14 the watch” on Monday morning,
when one ticker timed his performance at 1 min.
for the five furlings, a couple of reliable
timists making It Imin. Sj^seo.; so it is fair to
take it 1 1 Imin. 4sec. This is good enough in bar
shoos, with, as we have heard, 7st 41b or 6ib on his
From Tocal comes intelligence of a great loss to
the stud, the mare Lady Sophia having died a few
days ago in foaling. Lady Sophia was by Hamlet,
from the imparted mare Lady Hiida, for whom
Mr. Frank Reynolds gave 1000 guineas when she
was in foal with Lady Sophia; and to make the
loss more severe, Lady Hilda herself died after
having |one more foal, the filly Souvenir, now
running so well, who Is now all Mr. Reynolds has
left to keep up the family credit.
THE BETTING MARKET.
Very little alteration has taken place in the
market since our last, and the prices remain
almost as previously quoted. Save that Footstep
and Calma have both hardened considerably for
the Caulfield Cup up to 10 to 1, nothing remains to
be said about that important race. Garfield has
shortened to 5 to 1 for the Marlbyrong Plate, and
Honeydew* who Is reputed to have done a wonder-
ful trial, has received some support up to 100 to 8.
On the V.R.C. Derby there is actually nothing to
quote, Archie still being very firm at 5 to 4, while
4 to 1 bar one is On offer, and 10 to 1 bar three.
Nothing new has been introduced into the Mel-
bourne Cup betting, and 100 to 8 is obtainable on
the field, Nicholas, First Demon, and Santa Claus
ruling the roast.
WOLLONGONG RACES.—OCT. 34 and 35.
The following handicaps have been declared
Hurdle Bace? Uhlan 10.7, Crusader 10.3, Old Gold
9.13* Councillor 9.12,- The Gem 9.10, Sir Peter 9.7,
Dan O’Rourke 9.6, Crane 9.3, Alligator 9.0.
Wollongong Handicap, R6mile: Soldier Boy 9.8,
Old Gold 8.5, Muscat 8.3, Twelve Years 8.0, Byron
7.12, Carmen 7.10, Rosinante 7.8, Maccaronl 7.8,
Mirabeau 7.6, Silver Arrow 7.5, Silverdale 7.4,
Tinder Box 7.4, Lord of the Vale 7.3, Empress 7.3,
Envy, 7 0, Lecture 7.0, Affection 7.2, Kelso 6.10,
Vidette63, Jet 6.0.
Town Plate, 1J4 mile: Soldier Boy 9.10, Old Gold
8.7, Raven 8.7, Muscat 8.5, Twelve Years 8.2, Byron
8.0, Carmen 7.12, Rosinante 7.10, Maccaronl 7.10,
Mirabeau 7.8, Silver Arrow 7.7, Tinder Box 7.6,
Silverdale 7.6, Slave 7.5, Empress 7.5. Transforma-
tion 7.2, Envy ".2, Lecture 7.3, Affection 7.0,
Kelso 6.13, Footprint 6.12, Vidette 6.10, Roquette
6.10, Sultana 6.5, Jet 6,0, Gem 6.0, Crane, 6.0.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
44 Cribbage Player No matter What the
authority you mention says, a seven and four
fours count 24 44 Punch’s Corner Hermit won
the English Derby in 1867.
Fancy! Count Kearney was had up, in
London, the other day, for assaulting Mr. Hare, a
member of the Athemeum Club and a gentleman
“well-known in literary circles.’’ It seems they
were friends at one time, when they had a row
about something, and, on the steps of the club,
the Count tried to split this Hare. The Count was
lined £10 and costs, but expressed annoyance that
that the Countess Kearney, who was in Germany,
should have heal'd of the affair. It was remarked
in “Nicholas Nlckleby” that the African Knife-
swallower “ looked and spoke remarkably like an
Irishman.” Well, the Count's name hasn’t got
much of the German in it; so perhaps he is an
Irishman who, before the Emperor William
“scooped it in by playing Nap.,” possibly went to
Prussia and bought a title for a llg of tobacco. In
James the First’s time you could buy a baronetcy
for £1000; and now you can get a C.M.G.-ship by a
little artistic crawling. Oh, and before we forget,
we must give our readers a copy of a letter a cer-
tain M.L.A. has recently received, In answer to
one of his own from Her Majesry: —
“Winds r Castle,
“ April 1st, 1883,
“ , Esq., M.L.A
“Sydney, near Melbourne,
“ South Australia.
"Sir,—I am directed by the Queen to acknow-
ledge the receipt of your letter with portraits,
which Her Majesty has caused to be placed in a
gallery devoted to subjects equally distin-
guished.
“ The services you intrepidly rendered with
your umbrella to the royal Princes on a most
memorable public occasion are known to Her
Majesty, and she appreciates them according to
their value, Services, such as these, however
valuable, Her Majesty regrets to say hardly come
within the category of those for which the
Victoria Cross is usually awarded; but the
Queen is disposed to meet your views if based
upon a minor scale.
“Should a new umbrella, say, meet your
views, or a chromo of the 4 Boy upon the Burn-
ing Deck,’ from a drawing by H.R.H the Prin-
cess Louise, satisfy your requirements, I think
I can promise, on behalf of Her Majesty, that
you shall be recompensed for your intrepid
bravery without delay.
" I have the honour to be, sir,
44 Your obedient servant.
“FRED. PONSONRY.
“ Major-General.”


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘ take cheer, for
Hop BJttsrs will cure yon.
“ If you are simply ailing. If you feel
* weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral
* duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from overeating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dlssi-
‘ nation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
‘ farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
* that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
4 unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for slck-
‘ room drinks : impure water, etc., ron-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GRAHA
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
643, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position In every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Tour obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT. WEAK-
NESS, Jcc •
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepaued by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, £<
43 ERSKINE STREET,
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists,
In the Cate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jack Crozier, the daring escapee from
Hay gaol, who, on being caught, was
six months’ extra imprisonment, asked to be sent to
a hard-labour gaol, as better food is given to
prisoners In such gaols. But the Judge said he could
not comply with the request. Crozier has an
inordinate appetite, being able to eat as much as
two other men. He actually eats the rice thrown
out to the fowls.
When a person achieves success in any
line, from manufacturing specifics for bunions to
securing a seat in Parliament, the knowing ones—
the cognoscenti— put their heads together to cypher
out the secret of tho success. Why Mrs. Hampson
has been such a draw is the hardest nut these
clover people have had to crack for sometime.
Because she was a woman with a good presence,
sonorous voice, fine delivery and sincerity which,
If not real, so closely resembled the genuine article
that differentiation was impossible, did not satisfy
these astute ones. These characteristics covered
a part and a part only of the ground. To the
EvENiNG)NoozE!we are Indebted for the real cause.
It is Impossible to hide anything from this wide-
awake journal:—“For our part we believe that
Mrs. Hampson’s popularity is to be attributed
chiefly to the use that has been made of the
modern invention of advertising.” There. Directly
Alfred’s bull’s-eye” is turned on a mystery that
mystery becomes as plain as Sir Henry Parkes. 11
was modesty alone that induced the discoverer to
omit the fact that it was not only to advertising,
but to advertising in the Nooze, that Mrs. H.’s
triumph is to be traced.
“ That men should look after their own in-
terests is only natural. It is, no doubt, pleasant to
dip the arms up to the elbows in the Egyptian
flesh-pots, but what is offensive is the hypocrisy
of these ‘flesh-potters.’ They are good, kind,
disinterested creatures—have no thought for them-
selves. They feel that Egypt would fall into
anarchy if the Egyptians were not governed, so
they are anxious to govern them. As for salaries,
profits out of concessions, &c., they somewhat dis-
like them. And they expect us to believe this
trash?” The foregoing is from London Truth.
We may add that the flesh-potters took all sort of
pains to Induce the nation to believe “ this trash.’ *
They cabled messages, all pitched in the high dis-
interested key, all over the Empire. Anyone will
be able to remember the cooked slush which was
wired to tho Australian dallies, and the meekly
eager stylo in which the said dailies took their
inspiration from the glaringly ex-parte Jingo tone
of the cable messages. The Bulletin was the
only Australian paper which spoke out, during the
war, the truths which all the papers have been
obliged to admit now that the war is over and
they no longer suffer from blood to tho bead
pair of scarlet “ divided skirts ” and a cloak to
match, with a hood like a sentry-box. It was
early morning—no other passengers were astir—so
she found her way to the poop. It was untenanted
save by one loose-jointed weather-beaten sailor-
man, engaged in swabbing. His back was towards
her. When ho faced her, he did not stop to pass
the customary compliments of polite society, but
brought the blacks on tho dimly-outlined coast
tumbling out of their gunyahs with the echoes of
his yells. The passengers, too, scrambled on dock
in toilets as bizarre as those of a Venetian carnival.
Then the lady, who owned a couple of poodles,
asked the captain for tho run of tho poop for her
pets. This was the very last straw. Captain Lourie,
tho kindest-hearted old salt that over paced a
quarter deck since the “ ancient mariner ” tried to
make hisi way through the “doldrums,” sent the
recording angel into hysterics with his reply.
Garranny showed her ignorance of French
when she made a mess of tho Italian skipper's
post-prandial deliverance ; yet, by her subsequent
translation of the same into what was meant to bo
the vernacular, showed a still deeper Ignorance of
English.
O, for the old days
When the King sat in the gate,
And Justice ruled the ways,
And but perjurors feared their fate!
And the lowly pressed the great,
And the bondman faced the freed.
And each could plead his need,
And was not cursed by Law,
But heard in reverent awe
His righteous Judge decree
Waat ought and, so, must be;
And felt within his heart
That doom unquestioned part ?
Of the Justice perfect, then,
Possession of all men.
O, for the old days
When the King sat in the gate
And dealt, sure as God’s ways,
Pure Justice inviolate 1
And the now imperial weight
Of money advantaged naught—
Those had who sought, nor bought—
None then were bound mute slaves
Of grasping blatant knaves;
And an appeal for Right
Brought never Fortune’s night,
But vengeance swift and strong
On him who worked through Wrong *,
While ne’er Hate, subtle, bland,
Stabbed by a Judge’s hand.
O, for the old days
When the King sat in the gate!
Injustice rules our ways
Making Law, her chartered mate.
Irresistible advocate
Of Oppression’s tangled maze
Which lures, betrays, then slays.
And lawyers multiply—
Black motes within the eve
Of Time grown racked and worn
With burthen sadly borne;
While Judges forge such gyves
To fetter honest lives
That the people wish, too late,
Tho King sat in the gate.
A MUNDANE MELODY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis my last mild Havanna
Pervading the room:
Her companions have taken
Their leaves in a fume.
No kindred to hack her,
Nor plug, twist, nor snuff,
To return her aroma
Or give puff for puff.
I’ll not fling thee, thou lone one,
To be crushed underfoot;
Since matched are thy comrades,
ThouTt not be a butt.
Thus thy ashes I scatter,
And wish thee God-speed
To thy kindred cremated,
Thou lone widowed weed.
So, fain would I follow
When the last whiff is sped.
And in life’s brightest garden
The weeds are all dead.
When troubles oppress us,
Or better-halves jar,
O what were existence
Without a cigar ?
HUGH K. LIPTUS.
Brunswick, Melbourne.
AT THE ART EXHIBITION.
First Fair Connoisseur : “Lovely lake-scene that of young Palette’s, isn’t it ?”
Second Fair Connoisseur : “That’s not a lake, dear, it’s a (refers to catalogue) ‘ Plain near Goulbum ’ ’’
First F. C. (with warmth): “ You’re just wrong there, Mr. Palette told me himself, it is a water colour!”
[Exeunt fighting.]
FROM THE HON. W. B. D-LL-Y, IN SYDNEY,
TO DR. B-DH-M, IN THE BLUB MOUNTAINS.
Dear B-ham, I send you this note by the mail.
And would follow myself were it not for my tall—
Or my colleagues; though what, by the powers,
will they say
When they hear they’re called “ tall ” in that cava-
lier way I
For (a secret) each member proclaims he’s the head;
That the others must follow, but he’ll not be led 1
So, you see, wo are not quite united and one,
God not having joined us, it could hardly be done.
Imagine me sitting and talking to W-r-ght
About woolpacks too heavy or tea-chests too light;
Whether freights should be altered, or tables made
new—
As though I had the soul of a carrier, too 1
When my mind's in a dream with the glorious old
past
He’s wondering how long his position will last;
When I’m thinking of Greece, and, of course, upon
you,
And my mind has soaredjupwards to hopes that are
true—
When my fancy has carried me far into Spain,
And I visit the temples of Moslem again—
Oh! think of the anguish, the sorrow, and pain,
When I hear him say something about a d—d
train.
If this be what place is, then let me be laid
In cold Opposition’s unharassing shade,
Where the friends of my choice are alone to be
found.
And the Babel of Bunkum is laid in the ground—
Where at dinner the guests are the chosen and few;
Where the viands are choice, and the wine is not
new:
Where you, I, and others, from sycophants freed.
Can discuss tne old past without eyeglass and R—d;
Whore St-u-rt Is not, and where D-bbs cannot be;
Where in wildest profusion our thoughts can run
free;
Where Fox, Pitt, and Johnson, where Voltaire and
Staid,
Bring bright retrospections—a tear, or a smile I
Give me this, my dear B-ham, and the Land Bill
may go
To Gehenna, or that place they term “down below.”
8o farewell for the present: but I’ll drop you aline
next I can rest ’neath your fig-tree and vine.
The Government auctioneer of Cairns,
N.Q., is an old Sydney identity, John Macnamara.
John is a sort of slumbering volcano, and when he
first went to Cairns the terrified inhabitants gazed
at him as a timid traveller looks nervously down
into the crater of Vesuvius. According to his
own version, he stands unrivalled in the nineteenth
century as a footballer, a man of genius, and lec-
turer on the evils of intemperance. The chief
terror In him lies in the fact that he has been a
pupil of Larry Foley since he was three weeks old.
He is known to Larry as “Fireball Macnamara.”
It is a knowledge of the destruction and general
carnage that would follow his entrance into a
quarrel that keeps him religiously from the arena
of battle. As a pugilist, he has been wisely re-
strained by Providence from exhibiting his ap-
palling prowess. As a lecturer on the evils of
drink, his last lecture on this subject in Cairns
drove his audience indiscriminately to the rum
bottle. As an auctioneer, he transcends descrip-
tion. When he first opens the fountains of the
great deep of his sonorous voice in a public sale,
the police rush from all quarters, thinking there is
an insurrection, and that the rebels have started to
massacre the populace.
The noted Monsignor Capel was inter-
viewed lately, anent his exploits in converting
English aristocrats to the Koman fold, when he
explained: “Because Lord Bute happens to be a
Marquis and very wealthy, that is no reason why
he should not have a soul to be saved. I personally
‘received’ Lord Braye, and the present Duchess
of Norfolk. The Duke fell in love with her, a
Protestant; but a Duchess of Norfolk must be a
Catholic, so the Duke's persuasions and mine had
the effect of altering the young lady’s religious
opinions, and she came into the Church shortly be-
fore her marriage. I also received into the Church,
Lord Courtenay, who will one day wear a coronet
as the Earl of Devon, but ho not only has no
money, but failed largely not long ago; so if I
brought a Croesus into the Church, I also intro-
duced a very great debtor. I had nothing to do
with the conversion of the Marquis of Hi pen.
He acted on his own impulses, under an assumed
name. The priest who gave him advice had no
suspicion of his rank, which was unknown almost
up to the day of his reception.” In other words,
the Church doesn’t want any money; Monsignor
Capel never looked after any ; it was only by an
aceidont that a few titled converts happened to be
wealthy.
The Milesian wife of a Cooktown China-
man was ordered change of air, and set out for
Sydney in the Corea. Following her father’s
example, she took a “cabin;” treading in her
husband's footsteps, she came accoutred with an
opium pipe. This she smoked until the passengers
rose en masse and put it out, threatening to extin-
guish her also if she persevered. Her manners,
although refined, were not conventional. Half
way between Brisbane and Sydney, she put on a
PAUSE!
“John Rush, son of Michael Rush, the well-
known sculler, won his first race on the Clarence
on Saturday week. He Is only 16 years of age, has
a fine style, and will probably be heard of in the
future.”— Grafton paver.
Pause, rash young man I who yet have lots of bloom
upon your cheek;
A guileless heart, we know you have—we saw you
but last week;
A manly sparkle In your eye, a smile that’s frank
and full:—
Pause, miserable boy, we say, ere you begin to
pull.
They’ll lure you from your father’s side (j /our part
will be well meant),
Pretend to put up coin, and not put up a single
cent;
And then, when you show out to race, and start
t (we 11 say) at Hyde,
\ ou 11 find that something suddenly has gone wrong
with your “slide.”
You’ll pull with Trlckett, and “ hands down” you’ll
win (that is the text)
One day—and you’ll be licked by a much worse man
on the next.
You’ll strike that rowing whirligig, and be left In
the lurch:
Don’t join the scullers, John! you’d now far better
join the Church.
And when out on the river just to take your morn-
ing spin,
Big bulbous-ponumed sporting touts will tell you
not to win; J
The “ring” will on a Sunday come, and with a
knowing—“Whist I
Don t let him head you for a mile,” squeeze money
in your fist.
And TiruAveH fairly win a race > by rowing straight
The crowd who backed the other man will say it is
ft sell f
And when you read the papers, and the pars, do
meet your eyes,
You’ll see you’ve sprained your ankle, with a great
deal of surprise.
The world’s before you-all the world-and could
you wish for more ?
Pause I if you have to go and sell molasses in Mick’s
store.
Pause! even if it to the dread conclusion has to
come:
Pause I even if you have to go and Join the Morn-
INU JlvUM.


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking* the above remedy*, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorate r. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these synantoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The groat Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION 'TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Lab natiry,
484 George Street, Sydney.
T
HE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directorsi
The Hon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman
W. H. Eldred, Es<j., J.P.
Robert Hudson, Esq.
P. T. Humphery, Esq.,
M.P.
J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 257 Georg e-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonics
and in Europe.
Highest rates of Interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F, S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
R.BURGIS.
TAILOR..
w VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
W
ORK1NG CLASSES,
GENERA lAi VOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. K E E L Y AND CO.,
71 Gouttium-strect, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasallers, Lamps, and
Farid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety,
Ksely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
charg e Q f the lighting of the hall and
mp’per rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
Ighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
»ach his customers in three minutes the mode of
Ighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
>n remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
3e sent to the above address. No orders attended
jO without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
i Light Qasalier .. . > .. £3 10
I do. do
} do. do ,
i Light Brass Table Lamps ..
L do. do. do. .. •• • •
Brass Bracket Lamps, burn lo
hours
Wall Bracket Lamps, do.
a lobes and Fittings
Fluid, in cases, 8 gallons.. • • . - ~ - =—• ,
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 13s worth kero-
aene. instructions as to the mode of lighting 1 scut
bo clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parte of the Colonies.
: 10
1 15
5 10
2 10
0
0
0 to £3
0
0
5 0
3 0 0
0 17 6
0 5 0 each
0 3 6 gal.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. :
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, wo
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain'
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
1®" THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 13 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods : FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £50 in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
Marshails
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Nervous Headache, and Toothache, Indigestion,
Loss of Appetite, General Prostration, &c. By its
tonic and soothing effects it at once removes all
craving for ALCOHOL. By its richness as a Che-
mical Food, it nourishes and gives vigour to the
whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Sold everywhere, and
by the Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, 106
MARKET-STREET, Sydney. Wholesale Agents—
Plliqte Brothers, and Prosser St G»,
IV. H. PA ,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS? INSTRUMENT.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNO & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. QAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELYIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &C.
Imported by
Alexander Borthmck,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
Atlas Foundry & Engineer
ing Company,
HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers, Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Brassfounders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above firm are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
crushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions ot Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N.B. —Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
jar the paragon of perfection.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
pgr Bach PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
O
Saywell': Tohcti Co.. Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO-
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. XX. PALING,
" 356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OP NEW SOUTH WALES.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OP FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
*
O
i—i
◄
«
O
S
a
o
©
o
◄
» ONE
%
DINNER,
SHILLING.
O'
✓
/c-
> N °-fe.
05
Cl
ffi ►b
» w
H3 “
W >■
H hj
05 (4
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
All Meals One Shlllinft.
J. C. GREENFIELD, Proprietor.
cu
A. GORMAN.
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Clarendon,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he Intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
SUITES of BOOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
ways has been, noted throughout th<
f#r selling nothing but the very beet.
THOMAS MUNRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo. and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbeln for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
under my own
suiting the public taste.
W
ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
HEBBLBWHITE & C O.
416 GEORGE STREET.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all '
sizes,
from 13 m. to 73 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREET.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
OAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY,
Price Lift on application.


Prepared according- to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
dyspepsia, headache, indigestion
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION
IMPAIRED VITALITY. NERVOUS DISEASES
hysteria, wakefulness, sea-sickness
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c. b1^B88,
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork
Sluggish Circulation and ttrowlmrChil-
dren.
I have used your Acid PhosphSe canTr’o
nounoe it a very valuable addition. I And It use'
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following- overwork and well
as the gastric derangements. * Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Past grow ’
ing children require this valuable addition g
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
have '"‘J oiTOuomjiy, ana With tho ,nr>ot
remarkable success. au most
it; ln d y 8 P«pala and In all cases where thcr,
of the Jiver and kidneys W?t
my patients It has agreed wonderfully * " 111
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
„ „ A -S- Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H.. savs •
.‘ Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi
cine. I have taken It myself, and for sevl™
from ?n^ Cril i? d 11 fo ? my Patients, when sufferim
™“i ndi § e8 lon or mnervation of the dlgestlvi
organs, and always with satisfactory results It l
a good nerve tonic, and in some cLes of morbl.
urine. It acts like a charm,’ producing the desirei
v, 14 i8 P lea8ant to the taste, acceptable to thi
»&rmVo S i-5 ny ° mto °'
iCan be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
, —■ -j — -— — —oy the most sensltlvi
Have prescribed ft with marked benefl
In Indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms ai
e^P, e y®nfc substitute for lemon Juice, and as sucl
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£a,g'ic Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It Works like a Charm.”
nrt 1 !^ 0117, greaay or stlcky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches Are. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Bums, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an Internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus. Cramps, Dyspepsia. Sour
stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
UIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported Into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand*
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their l nish
BECAUSE they ure each and all built under special
Instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
best.
American. Carriage Emporium,
WTNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & 00.,
Sole AfeotA
Warfare is to be again revolutionised—this
time by an electric gun capable of discharging a
ball a second. M. Pieper, of Liege, is the inventor.
Colonel Fosbery exhibited the weapon before an
assembly of officers and other experts at the
Royal United Service Institution, London. Into
the mechanism of tTC weapon we do not intend to
enter. At the meeting in question, the opinion
was freely expressed that the gun would supplant
all others. There is one curious fact brought pro-
minently forward by this constant improvement
in the destructive powers of instruments of war-
fare. The deadlier those instruments become, toe
less is the proportionate loss on the battlefield; so
that the time may yet arrive when wars will cease—
not through any change in men’s warlike instincts,
but through the impossibility of armies approach-
ing each other. With plenty of provisions, a few
thousand or a few hundred determined and
Serfectly trained men could prevent an Invasion,
efore the Introduction of those engines whose
rude throats counterfeited Jove’s thunder, the
slaughter at hostile meetings, when the opponents
stood their ground, was immensely greater in pro-
portion to the numbers engaged than at Marengo,
Austerlltz, Wagram, Borodino, Waterloo, Alma,
Solferino, Sadowa, Gravelotte, or Plevna. One
Greek or Roman victory often ended a campaign—
too few of the enemy being left to make another
stand. The possibility of destroying armies by
means of noxious gases has more than once been
mooted. In the raeantin e the enlisting of elec-
tricity as a life-curtailing agent may pave the way
fortheepor.h of peace foretold two thousand years
ago by the fishermen of Galilee.
The Queen sent for Tennyson. Her Ma
jesty wants him to eommeirorate John Brown in
verse—just to throw off a few sonnets about his
nigged honesty, long and faithful rudeness to
better people than himself who hadn’t her Koyal
ear, keep his memory green, and so on. Tennyson
is understood to be overwhelmed with pride and
delight, at the privilege Queen Victoria has
granted him. He has written a few little things,
with just a vein of prettiness, perhaps; but, this is
the first chance he has had of really becoming
great, by immortalising the boorish manners of
an upper servant, who was tor a quarter of a cefi-
tury deeply attached to a good billet.
There is trouble before the Servxoe-ctm-
Berry people. A member has been returned for
Emerald Hill who, for all-round knowledge of how
to make the ways of a Government as hard as those
of transgressors, can give long odds to anybody
south of Capricorn. He formerly represented
Ararat, and his name is David Gauhson. (David,
by the way, is a native of Sydney, and when a child
E addled about on the azure waters of our beautiful
arbour.) He is young, handsome, and choke-full
of talent and energy. But, mim Diev, when be
obtains the “ flure” and settles down to a nice four
hours’ canter, you should see how nervous become
all the old fossils of dqubtful antecedents—all
those who became “our leading citizens” by means
of adulterated grog, light groceries, land dummy-
ing, cattle-dutflng, or any of the numerous roads
to fortune by following which men earn universal
respect for themselves and the “ ontray” into the
highest “curcles.” A terrible fellow is this young
Davy. Our own truthful“David.”whonevertold
a lie, is only a farthing rushlight to him. So
when the news got about that this young
lion was the chosen of Emerald Hill, the
M’fntyre of Maldon scented sport and became
“ sarcastlcal.” “Mac” heads the half-dozen
or so of malignants who constitue the Vic-
torian Opposition. They are already keeping
a place warm for Gaunson, as he possesses
most of the characteristics of the Irishman who,
emigrating to the “States,” and being asked on
landing what were his politics, replied, “I don’t
’zactly know, but I’m agin the; Government.”
When Mr. Service expressed a feeble hope that
the “ House would get on with business,” “ Mac ”
fell in with the Premier’s desire to wind up the
session, adding, “ For the sooner we shut, the
sooner we will come back and settle you.” As
David is acquainted with all the little peculiarities
and idiosyncracles of Service, Berry, and Co.—he
embraces and rats from all sides with IsbmaeWlke
impartiallty-there is g fair promise of sport
ghead ? J
LILIAN D'ACRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
thee she would be nothing, O immortal, world-
renowned Resinback I But to me—me, in my
lowliness—me, the poor walking property man —
me, on whom a princess never looked—to me she
is a radiant cherub-nay, she is all heaven itself I
Sure you won’t interfere, great Resinback I 0,
don’t, don’t, don’t 1 Thou hast royalty and the
nobility to choose from: ladies in golden crowns
arc thine—thou hast only to speak, and they’re
thine. Rut do, do. noble Resinback, illustrious
Resinb ick, leave Miss D’Acro to me!”
“ Tak' her!” said the tragedian, in a tone of sym-
pathy. For the distinguishing sign of all great
genius is its spontaneous sympathy with the
efforts of the lowly.
Then Peter, slipping off his property pants—for
he dared not kneel down in them, lest ho should
bulge the knees—threw himself at the feet of the
great man, and fervently thanked him. Having
done this, he pulled on his own pants, and made
straight for the house of Lilian D Acre.
“ I gev the lad his congee,” remarked old Hunter,
closing Lilian's drawing-room door, and walking
over to an easy chair. “1 didn’t like interfering
with him till ye gev me yer consent to tie the
knot. Then was the time to lift him. I don’t think
his neck’s broken, but some part of him fell
through with the last rise.”
“To think of his impudence ! ” ejaculated Lilian.
“ A mere common walking actor I Whatever
could hare possessed him ! ” And the beauty
crimsoned with indignation, and fanned the knob
of her nose.
“Now, Lilian,” said the old man, “be ready in
the morning, and don’t keep us waiting. Every-
thing’s right, and after the parson hitches us, we’ll
be off to Sandbeach. I’ll let ’Change rip for a
couple of days.”
“I’ll be ready,” assented Lilian, and the old
man, whispering a pretty word or two, moved
home.
“And this is Sandbeach! And this is married life!”
mused Lilian D’Acre, now Mrs. Hunter Smart, as
she looked out through the front window of a
hotel, three mornings after. Old Hunter had not
got up yet, but she had had breakfast, and was
looking out at the people who streamed up and
down the esplanade. “ And this is married life !
she repeated. “ It would be an interesting study
to find out how many of these women who now
walk up and down, gaily laughing and moving
through existence like summer butterflies, have
acted asl have done. Women must do so, I say
again. What to me is that old fellow snoring up-
stairs ? There’s Mrs. Freemantle! Now, her
husband is three times her age, and is paralysed as
well, but she was a poor girl, and ho had a fortune,
made as a pork-butchcr. Look at her now !
There’s a Minister of the Crown taking off his
household, I think we might take a three-roomed
weatherboard cottage in one of the off-streets, for
I like good eating and drinking.”
“Well, well,” laughed Lilian, “you’re full of
fun this morning, you dear duck !”
“The divil a bit of fun, my honey.”
“ Haven’t you plenty of money ?”
“The devil a penny over what I spent on the
wedding and this trip. I never said I had.”
“ What!” cried the young bride, and for the first
time in her life the knob on her nose turned pale.
“ And then what have I ! Nothing—worse than
nothing !”
“ Yes, Lilian,” cried the old man, resting his
head on her chin; “ yes, my honey, ye have yer
own old duck ! Eh ?”
But Lilian fell from her chair, and although she
had only on morning slippers the fit of hysterics
was so bad that before she recovered she had
kicked the front room round to the back of the
house. But Hunter clung to her through all,
and as soon us her eyes opened he whispered again,
“ Yer own old duck ’ll stick to ye I”
OPERA-goers must have some remembrance of
Lilian D’Acre. On first-nights she mostly found
her way to the right-hand box, or could be seen
languidly listening and lovingly looking from a
cushion in a prominent part of the dress-circle.
She was a fine-looking woman, with oval face,
large blue eyes, and a liberally cut mouth. She
had abundance of lip, and, as the lower one had a
slight droop, you could see through the rosy
fringes a nice little row of polished ivories. Her
hair was fair, and her complexion, as much of it
as appeared through the pearl cream, was healthy.
Her nose was a commanding feature. It began
about the usual place between her eyes, and then
went curving, and spanning, and crushing down
through space, until it ended all at once in a knob
like a door-handle. This knob had always the look
of having been rubbed with a coarse towel and
then dipped in a butter-basin. But, taking it
altogether, it was a fine, serviceable, lasting nose,
and one the wearer evidently took pride in.
Besides, it belonged to the same set as her
chin; and, if there be anything that proves
a pure and refined taste in a woman, it
is getting her features, like her china, of
one set. Now. if Lilian D’Acro had had one of
those little chins, like the bottom of a thimble,
such as you see on some women, it wouldn’t
have matched her nose. That nose wanted in a
chin a good substantial companion, with a base as
ample as a crachnir’e and the gradually-swelling
fulness of a pincushion stuffed with fresh bran.
That’s what it wanted, and it is a proof of Li 'ian’s
taste that that’s just what she had. She was four
or five inches above middle height, and her hands
and feet were in proportion. Her bust was like a
bolster, and many a glance of admiration she knew
it to have drawn. Altogether, she was a fascinat-
ing, captivating woman, who merited a good fate.
She deserved to wed well, and to have the satisfac-
tion of hearing the man of the house walk about
the floor all night with something in his arms, and
swearing at it to go asleep.
She was now 33 years of age. She used to go
about with her widowed mother until two years
before. The widow then died and left a slender
competence to Lilian. But like a good mother,
knowing the fund was stinted, she had had Lilian
taught several accomplishments, which, at the
worst, could be turned to pecuniary advantage.
Lilian knew three languages, sang well, played
well, and understood very fairly the methods of
Imparting them. But even man feels that working
for a “ living ” is drudgery and it is little wonder
that a woman shirks it as long as she can. Lilian
shirked it; but having indulged in adittle profuse-
ness for a season or two, in hopes to have attracted
some bridegroom, she ran her means threadbare,
and found herself one morning rubbing the knob
of her nose with a little anxiety.
“I’m get ing in a corner,” she mused, “and
there’s none of them coming. I think I can count
on old Hunter Smart, but he’s far far from ray
style. It’ll be the last thing when I’ll take him.
Yet they say he’s vastly rich. After all, I mustn’t
wait too long. If I’m to take him at all, I must do
it while I am in the position of a lady. He’s low
and vulgar, and has the name of being a regular
flint about money; and lf|I married him while earn-
ing my bread he might try to keep me in a rank
suited to that. If I take him while a lady, I can
make him stretch. I can claim a house in the
suburbs and a coach and pair. The only draw-
backs are that he is so old and ugly, and is satisfied
to go about in such miserable style. But, still, I
don’t think the character of the husband compro-
mises the wife in these days. There’s Mrs. Jackson
—she drives about and is seen everywhere, and
nobody asks a word about her dirty old man.
There’s Mrs. Smith, too. The last time she danced
with the Governor a policeman turned old Smith
away for looking through the window. Society,
at the present time, knows that ladies muxt marry
such men to retain their position, and, beyond
wearing the fellow’s name and being his legal
Wife, it knows that the poor thing’s character is not
in the slightest way compromised. Here goes!
I’ll encourage old Hunter. He’s always moping
about the Exchange. But, if I have my house and
carriage and can go about, I’ll try and boar with
him.”
Hunter Smart was a shock-headed old man on
the shady side of 60. He was never a handsome or
a well-dressed man, and he made no pretensions to
erudition or any feats of politeness beyond the
plainest forms of civility. He was found on
’Change every day, and could rehearse fluently all
the speculations and investments on the market.
He was not intimate with anyone, and no one was
intimate with him. Ho used to meet Miss D’Acrc
from time to time, in one place or another ; and
having had an introduction to her in her mother’s
time, was always attentive in Inquiring after her
health and happiness. On such occasions she
would notice that a deeper feeling than mere
friendship was blended with his gaze. His eyes
would rest affectionately on the knob of her nose,
and then peep in through the rosy crevice of her
lips, and then linger tenderly on her pincushion of
a chin, and she could see his old grisly beard quiver-
ing, and something like water gathering about.hia
black Disks. She was sure she had him as soon as
she liked.
Things never go smoothly, however. Now that
she liked, she began to see that he was not so
warm ns she had thought. This chafed her some-
what; but being a woman with a will, she spread
more sail, as it were, and bore down upon him with
all her charms flapping. To her dismay, old Hunter
dodged.—” Base, cruel man !’’ mused Lilian. “ He
sees that I’m alone. He thinks the prize will wait
his convenience. Oh, that I had a young handsome
fellow in whom I could trust to play rival with
the old hedgehog ! I have it I Yes, I’ll do it I
Young Spieler, the actor at the Theatre Gaff, is
struck with me. The lad has only ten shillings a
week and find himself, but he’ll do to awake
Hunter. Besides, I needn’t take him into ray con-
fidence. He does the “ walking” business, and I
have only just to blush and smile when he comes
out with his hair parted down the middle and the
borrowed frock-coat on. He’s a fool, and is sure
to think I mean it. Then I’ll be able to lead him
about when I expect Hunter !”
■ ....
“Faith!" said Peter Spieler, taking off the rai-
ment which was the property of the Theatre Gaff,
and putting on his own more humble attire,
“that’s two nights running Venus has smiled upon
me! How oft have these eyes of mine sent forth
their burning rays in quest of a single glance of
recognition from that embodiment of statuesque
perfection! Last night, this night, the bread of
my high emprise has come back upon the waters,
and my heart throbs with delight transporting!”
“Coome, gae oot!” cried Herr von Resinback,
the great tragedian, whose consummate Shak-
sperlan representations were thrilling the hearts
and heads of the elite of Australia—“ Come, gae
oot, ye stoopit fulc I Tak’ off thae breeks. Thae
breoks is the praperty o’ this hoose. An’ then gang
sir,” said poor Peter, humbly. “But, sir,
O thou on the lofty pedestal of fame, on that high
pinnacle, where genius and learning have placed
thee, at whose feet Beauty is for ever kneeling,
into whose pockets the wealth of India is for
ever ”
,“Twa pun ten a-week an’ keep raeesel an sax
bairns!” broke in the great Shakesperian.
“O thou,” continued Peter, “who canst melt
hearts at thy will, and for whoso embrace the
proudest ladies in the land are languishing, do
deign bo listen to the humble prayer of poor Peter
Spieler} »he in the box to-night agqin, To
hat to her, and bending over her fingers ! And
there’s Lady Primrose ! Now, she’s little more
than a girl yet, and old Sir George is deaf and al-
most blind. Look, asshe walksalong, how everyone
makes room for her. See the Bishop, how he opens
her parasol for her, and he actually turns round
and walks by her side! I sav women must do these
things from time to time, to gain comfort, to gain
happiness, to gain respect. Society asks no ques-
tions if only you have a house and a carnage.
Marry into them, and Bishops and Ministers of the
Crown will dissipate any gloom that the accom-
paniment of an old snoring dotard of a husband
may originate. I’m settled, at all events. I will
get him at once to cast his eyes about for a nice
suburban residence. I’ll not strike very high
until I learn the full extent of his wealth. Three
servants and a coachman will do. The horses will
be greys. Ves, I’ll insist on greys. I’ll also want
a page, for Hunter will stick to his old pursuit.”
“LllianI” cried the old man, coming into the
room.
“ Yes, duck!” responded the young bride.
“I’m just after having a bite—all I’ll have this
morning. I want to run out on some business;
but before I go, I want to fix matters up. I want
to find where 1 stand, d’ye see? Well,” he went
on, taking out a note-book and pencil, and set-
tling himself in a chair before her, “ this life suits
me all to pieces, but it’s money makes the mare go,
and I must open my eyes afeard she’d break down.”
“ I was Just going to say, duck,” began the bride.
“Don’t mind, don’t mind,” interrupted the old
man, sticking the end of the pencil in his mouth,
“Just keep yer cars open and answer me. Now.
what accomplishments have ye ? Can't ye sing ?’’
“ Ves, duck.”
Hunter wrote down “ singing, £3 per quarter.”
“ Can’t ye play ?”
“ Oh, yes, duck.”
“ Can’t ye chat French ?”
“ Yes, duck, very fluently.”
“ Good girl, good girl I Can’t ye talk German ?”
“ I can, duck.”
“Well done, well done I Haven’t ye another
lingo ?"
“No, duck. That’s all.”
“Ye have, ye have!” cried Hunter, lifting up
the pencil. “ Don’t try to keep her back. Out with
her. Lilian; out with her !”
“Really, duck, you’re amusing. You mean
English ?’
“That’s it, that’s it!” cried Hunter, entering it
under the other items, and then proceeding to
calculate. Lilian was about to bestow on hun a
caress, when he exclaimed “I have it I Counting
five pupils on an average in each subject, ye can
make fifty poundp a quarter, or £200 a year, or at
thprath of Sj a week, By belnjf parqfu, in the
THE PREVAILIN'8 MANIA.
Injured Husband: “ We cannot agree—we must part for ever.”
Wipe: “All right; but we must not ventilate our sorrows through the press.”
Husband; “Ugh ! What’s the use of the separation, then ?”


WOOL SEASON, 1883-4.
R. Goldsbrough & Co.
(LIMITED),
In which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency and Ranking Corporation (Limited),
and li, Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
Capital. .
£3,000,000.
SjEOto notify the Woolgrowers of New South
3 Wales and Queensland that they make
beral Cash Advances, on favourable terms, on
the ensuing clip of Wool, and on Station securities.
They have also much pleasure in announcing that
their NEW WAREHOUSES at Darling Harbour
will be ready for the reception and sale of Wool,
Auction Sales of which will be held every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
remain under the control of an efficient staff of
experts, who will take charge of and, Sell to the
Best Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company’s care. The Sales of Fat Stock (at
Homebush), Station and Freehold Properties.
Grain, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
Station Produce, will bo under the superindcnce of
Mr. GEORGE MAIDEN. The Warehouses will be
unrivalled in the Southern Hemisphere for extent
and adaptability to the trade, being replete with
every Modern Improvement for the Efficient Dis-
play cf Wool, the sale of which will b; conducted
on the Melbourne system. Large and complete
samples of each clip will be shown in the well-
lighted SAMPLE ROOMS, which comprise the
whole of the upper floors, and as the bulk will be
easily accessible in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest facilities will
be available for Inspection, thus ensuring the ut-
most confidence In purchasing. Prior to offering,
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will be carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale.
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected up to the full market value. As they con-
iine their business strictly to ,hat of SELLING
BROKERS ONLY, the bast guarantee Is afforded
that na parcel will be sold for less than its worth.
Lots receive special attention,,every bale
and sack in the clip being shown in the Sample
Booms. Should owners’ expectation* not be
realized in • ydney, they have the advantage of
trying the -> elbourne market before deciding on
shipment, na which latter case the Company is pre-
pared to make liberal cash advances at lowest
market itues, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, or American markets for disposal. The
charges on Wool offered for sale, but not sold, are
only ONE SHILLING PER BALE, which includes
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst Instore,
and Deliveiing.
LONDON-156 & 157 LEADENHALL STREET.
MELBOURNE—BOURKE& WILLIAM STREETS.
SYDNEY-4 SPRING STREET.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE ;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NfcW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Qoulburn
Fass
Bownlng
Binalong
farden
oung
Coo tarn undra
Juuee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.8.W.:
Nyngan
Forbes
Coudoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.S.W.;
Morpeth Brewarrlna
Qunnedab Tamworth
Narrabrl Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Lines
Brisbane Yeulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Capertoe
Bathurst
Blajney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narrbmine
Nevertlre
Rockhampton
fiogantungan
Emerald
Central Line:
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M CULLOCH ft CO., LIMITED.
’ Agencies in all parts of the world.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED.
DTUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
B41 George Street,
Brickfield H1U, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly e*e-
Foster s Bugle Brand.
New South tVa/es Racing Com-
pany’s Consultations
ON
MELBOURNE CUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£25,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters £1000
2nd „ 30001 Non-Starters ... 3000
3rd „ 10001
For 149 Horses £10,000
117 Prize Gifts.—266 Prizes in all.
8 Prize Gifts, at 125 £1000
20 „ at £100 3000
40 „ at 50 3000
40 „ at 25 1000
... £15,000
Application by Letter only, addressed to the Secre-
tary, No. 2 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth-street;
or Box 255, G.P.O., Sydney.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O.
Orders, or Cheques ; if Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
of Shareholders.
W. BURNHARD.
tST Will positively close November 1st.
~|* J A MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
10,000 shares at 10s. each £5000
1st Horse £2000
2nd „ 1000
3rd „ 500
Starters 300
Non-starters „ 300
Prize Gift* 1000
£5000
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public fo
their support in previous consultations, and hope
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
D. LINDO, No. 8 Tattersall’s Chambers, Hunter-
street, and Box 723, P.O., Sydney.
W Will positively close November 1st.
Tattersall’s Monster Consultations.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
First Horse, £5000 ; Second Horse, £2000; Third
Horse, £1000. Starters, £1000 ; Non-starters,
£1000; to be divided amongst them.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
First Horse, £1000 ; Second Horse, £300 ; Third
Horse, £200. Starters, £350 ; Non-starters, £250;
to be divided amongst them.
Persons making application are requested to
register their Letters to ensure safe delivery of
same, and enclose addressed stamped envelope for
reply.
Address—“ TATTERS ALL,” care of G. Adams
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney,
Sno,
M
N
D.*
ELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1888.
Capital £10,000 in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:
First Horse.. .. £3000
Second Horse .. 3000
Third Horse .. 1000
Starters divide.. 1000
Non-starters .. 500
3 Prizes of £250 each, £500
5 Prizes of 100 „ 600
10 Prizes of 60 „ 500
30 Prizes of 25 „ 500
50 Prizes of 10 „ 600
£10,000
Application by stamp, to
Care of O. Sehlefcllch,
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horse*
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000
For 2*. fld.
£3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November.
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to tl
public never before attempted, is the property
'fide Company with responsible directors.
a bondflde .—,. .. —
CAPITAL: £10,000, divided into 80,000 Shares
2s. 6d. eaoh.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distribute
a* follows:—
10
5
NotT
than 2 sent to any single address. *8end P. O. orde
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, at
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Shou
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. exti
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st Novembe
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Shar
holders drawn from the entire body. The resu
will be posted to all Shareholders immediate!
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for charge.
Care of George Robertson, 94 Bo’urke-street,
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Paper* and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROT All ARCADE, 486 GEORGE 0T„ SYDNEY
’Cr
>IOT WATER BATHS
H.MH ESTABLISHMENT
137, 139 ft. 141 OXro\RO\5 T . x
HALF HOI /oh y CYSH y THUS? SO AY
AND
m
Nu
ALL
CHEST AFFECTIONS
S
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
"CITY FOUNDRY,”
W 121 LIVERPOOL STREET
and at
301 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Castings, Wrought Iro
Palisadings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Caf
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fir
Plugs.
Estimates given for all kinds of Ironwork, Ac.
IV. H. Ariel! and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’8 prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
ASrated Flour, Infant’s Pood, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. M KENZTB & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in HJb. and Ub. packets; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
BLEND
TRADE
-Si
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
Dining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr, James Ccrtib,
TJ" it. l d.©r ■t air oi,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN BANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Bicycles ail Tricycles
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
35
M£K
M
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long:),
0T WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Order* receive prompt attention.
fTIO CONNOI8EUR8 of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
X W. & A. Gllbey’B CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits Imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
HUBT’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 GEORGB St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 0d.
Superior Ladles’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 0d.
AGING SEASON, 1883.
E. E. JONES,
INTERNATIONAL HOTEL, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
Encouraged by past successes, I beg to
announce that I intend having a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
of the above, on the usual distribution.
No. 1 is now open, and will close at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
of hedging.
Address—
“JANITOR,”
Care of E. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
N.B.—For the convenience of Town Clients, a
Letter Box will be found In the bar.
[>8000 on MELBOURNE CUP.
W 1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
AUSTRALASIA" weep.
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1,
Prizes at £25-£250
„ 10- 600
„ 6-250
£1000
Grand total, £3000
The success of former events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stumps for reply
and result. Register letters.
Address—" AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JU ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7250 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution;
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) 1200
V First Star £2000 V
*** Second Star 1000 ♦**
*** Third Star 600 ***
12 stars of £200 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £25
each, 100 towns of £10 each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O..
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, tO'
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34=
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne: Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and.
MarketJ3treets, Sydney.
P.8.—Results sent to country shareholders, an*
published in Thx Australasian, Age. and Sydney
Town and Country,
0T Will positively oloi© on mh October,


The Bishop of Newcastle is an anti-Pcifis-
eyito.
Mr. Alexander J. Gray writes us saying
that he would in all probability have cleared up
the Bermagui mystery (re the disappearance of
Mr. Lamont Young, and party) had ho received
fair play. He says he spent over £60 of his own
money in visiting Melbourne, Ballarat, and other
Victorian towns with a view to obtaining a clue to
the whereabouts of a person who is alleged to
know more about the affair than ho would care to
disclose. Mr. Gray further avers that “it is the
opinion of the great majority of the people of N S.
Wales and and Victoria that I shoul-l be rewarded
as well as refunded the money I spent out of my
own pocket.” We daresay it is. But as we haven't
chatted with the great majority of t he people of
N.S. Wales and Victoria for several days past, we
are not quite sure what their opinion U about it.
.Motto, for the fellow
about to take a hair of
the dog that bit him:
“ Sio(k) itur nd astra,”
(free translation,:— “sick
he goes for the three-
star.”
We wish to call the
attention of Brother
Hicks to the fact that
there are traitors in his
camp. We saw several
members of a promi-
nent Orange lodge the
other day, who had
Roman noses and green
teeth. Besides, how can
these men, if they are
true Protestants, attend
“ mass meetings ?”
That inevitable
“ long - felt want' ’ no
longer exists at Liver-
pool. The hour has at
length brought forth the
man, who, singularly
enough, turns out to be
the editor of Sydney
Punch. The introductory
leader is a soul-stirring
composition. The editor
“makes bis entrto amid
buds of promise,” and
says he feels assured
“ that when the bud has
blossomed, the flower
blown, and the fruit ma-
tured, be shall be able
to congratulate himself
and the public of the
district on the ripe har-
vest with which Heaven’s
blessing and their mu-
tual Industry shall have
crowned' their desires.’
This is the very first time
we have heard of
Heaven’s blessing having
had anything to do with
the crowning of a news-
paper man’s desires. As
a rule, we consider it
much more prudent to
rely on the ads. of the
sewing-machine man and
the local auctioneer.
However, we drink, in a
long beaker of the best
“ colonial,” long life and
good health to the editor
of the Liverpool
Herald and his paper.
A “ musical family ”
wishes, through the
medium of the Herald,
to accommodate a lady
and gentleman. We have
been there, and strongly
advise a lady and gentle-
man, if they want real
recreation, to go there,
too. They’ll find four or
five gushing damsels
whoso ages vary Irom 30
to 40, and who all play on
a piano with rat-nibbled
pedals. The father (who
is probably in an orches-
tra) playes the bassoon,
while in his spare mo-
ments he instructs his
two sons (14 and 18) in the
viollncello and the trom-
bone. These lessons be-
gin just as—after suffer-
ing from a plethora of
hash—you go up-stairs
to lie down and try to
forget you are alive. All
the girls’ tastes are clas-
sical, in the musical line,
and when they can in-
veigle you within agony
distance of their crazy
old harpsichord, they
play you “tuney trifles
of their own.” They have
not many friends, this
musical family, but all
who do come to see them
bring instruments of
various kinds and pat-
terns, varying from the
zither to the French
horn. In the end you get
up one night, and, creep-
ing down stairs, pour a
bushel of cockroaches in-
to the piano, fill the vio-
llncello with beer, and
bung up the trombone.
And, creeping noiselessly
Tiack, you put on all your
luggage, and wander a-
way to seek a non-musi-
cal tenement. And all
this reminds usthatsing-
ing ragout-retailors are
a Lore, too. Wo once
knew a landlady of a
swell boarding-h ouse
take it into her head to
charter a singing-master,
and in two weeks she had
sung every boarder into
a rival's establishment.
A musical family is a
capital thing in its way;
but whore we most ap-
preciate it is when we
know it’s in Heaven.
A Love LetterDear Sweet,—Oh, my love
of love, clarified honey and oil of citron, white
loaf sugar of my hopes, and molasses of my ex-
pectations ! you have been absent from mo three
■whole days. The sun is dark at midday ; the moon
and stars are black when thou art absent. Thy
step is the music of the spheres, and the wind of
thy gown when you pass is zephyr from the gar-
den of Paradise in the spring time of early flowers.
I kissed you when we last met, and my whole
frame was filled with sweetness. Oh, spice of
spices—garden of delights, send me a look of thy
hair, send me anything your blessed fingers have
touched, and ! will go raving mad with ecstacy.
One look from you would translate me into the
third heavens. Your words are molten pearls
dropping from your mouth—my heart blazes at
the thought of thee. My brain is an everlasting
fire. The blood burns and scorches my veins and
vitals as it passes through them. Oh, come, most
delightful of delights and breathe upon me with
thy seraph breath. When you come, be sure and
bring that two shillings which you borrowed of
me, as 1 want to buy some tobacco.”
Spring! gentle Spring is now in full blast,
and the good old down-the-harbour festivities are
once more to the fore, as usual. The sweet songs
of the Sirens resound through their rook-bound
caves, the choral hymns of the Nymphs are wafted
along on the zephyr breeze, and the wild dance of
the Dryads is seen ’neath the spreading trees on
the verdant sward. “ Disgraceful scenes are again
reported from harbour picnics. One day last week
there was a fair stand-up fight between two
women. The by-standers (a motley crew) made a
ring.”
A wretched fanatic, who ought to be intro-
duced to Dr. Manning, has recently made the
following useless calculations on the Apocalyptic
text:—“And he measured the city with a reed,
13,000 furlongs. The length and the breadth and
the height of it are equal.” 13,000 furlongs
equal 7,930,000 feet, which, being cubed, is
496,793,038.000,000,000.000 cubic feet. Reserving half
of this space for the throne and court of Heaven,
and half the balance f .r streets, we have the re-
raainder of 13-4,198,372,000,000.030,000 cubic feet. Di-
vide this by 4096, the cubical feet in a room sixteen
feet square, and there will be 30,331 8-43,750,000,000
rooms. Wo will now suppose the world always
did and always will contain 990,000,000 inhabitants,
and that a generation lasts for 331-3 years, making
in all 3,970,000,000 every century; and ihat the
world will stand 100,000,000 years, or 1000 centuries,
making in all 3,970,000,000,000 inhabitants. Then
suppose there were one hundred worlds, equal to
this in number of inhabitants and duration of
years, making a total of 3,970,000,000,000,000 persons,
and there would be more than a hundred rooms
16 feet square for each person.”
The Melbourne D.T. is hot on Moncure
Conway. It describes him as: “An elderly gentle-
man, of literary tastes, with fair culture and
decent abilities. There is no touch of the charlatan
about him. He has, indeed, a simple and quite
visible belief in himself, which the faintest touch
of humour would kill. As a public speaker, Mr.
Moncure Conway is simply a phenomenon. He has
a fifty-parson power of prosiness. His gift for
tedious and semi-audible speech has no parallel and
no second in the colony. As the stream of viscid
syllables flows, or rather trickles, from the sage’s
lips, and wanders through the air, the audience
from its outer edge is flowing with much greater
activity to the door. But the speaker is so
visibly occupied in the admiring contempla-
tion of his own speech that its effect on his
audience is a matter of profound indifference."
We ourselves have not yet heard Mr. Conway
speak in public, and so are unable to offer a posi-
tive opinion as to the correctness of the D.T.’s
scathing criticism ; but, putting together all the
accounts which have reached us, wo believe Mr.
Conway’s matter to be much superior to his
manner of delivering it. However, the lecturer
having, in Melbourne, given platform expression
to some startlingly unorthodox re marks, we can
readily imagine the standpoint rom which the
’Olv Ormond and the beatifitv Jalfour view the
eminent philosopher. For tance, in his lec-
ture on Carlyle, Mr. Conw v said that “Hero
Worship Irrt to the w ship of the bad
as well as the good quantities of the hero.
Whilst Christ showed his commanding genius in
the sermon on the Mount, He adopted the prevail-
ing idea of His day, that epilepsy and other di-
seases were caused by demons ; consequently,
demonology, under the sanction of his authority,
flourished for hundreds of years, and led to the
burning of witches in England in comparatively
recent times. The leading item in Luther’s career
was a belief in the devil, and because he said he
saw the devil, millions of Germans were afraid to
go into the dark. In his opinion, the greatest all-
round man that ever lived was Shakespeare. The
great dramatist concealed himself in his creations,
and no errors could be perpetrated in his name.”
Dr. Brown-Sequard has discovered an an-
aesthetic, which will destroy all sense of pain for
nearly 34 hours, while not affecting either the
brain', or physical actvity.
Thay say that it is an old-lady appoint
mum- -a She-he affair, In fact.
“ Grime in Sydney,” says the Oampbbll-
town Herald, “Is lately assuming such an (sic)
hideous front as to shook the senses of a cannibal
sa rage.” From which we infer that the feelings
of the editor of our bucolic contemporary have
b aen considerably hurt.
Men are never too old to learn. In the
Victorian Assembly, in answer to the “Why do
you not object then ?” of the Hon. Angus Mackay,
the Premier observed: “ Because, if I objected to
everything vOu did, I should be on my legs every
minute.” Mr. Service sent a Parthian shaft right
up to the feathers In the Sandhurst member, by
further remarking that Mr. Mackay was a man
“ who seemed to have a faculty for doing the right
thing at the wrong time." This shows how the
Hon. Angus has improved. When here, trying to
run the Rum, he could always be depended upon
to do the wrong thing at any time.
Most pressmen hav e
heard of Wimble, now
one of the proprietors of
the Cairns (N.Q.) Post.
When he first arrived in
Cairns he was on the
war-path after sugar-
land, or anything he
might devour in the
shape of an investment
calculated to return a
thousand per cent,
weekly. He decided to
go for a ride to Herber-
ton, and for this purpose
procureda fiery untamed
grey steed from a Cairns
boniface. It was his
debut in the bush, and
his preparations were of
the ordinary amateur
bush-crusader style. For
a three-days’ trip he
took enough shirts and
socks to last for six
months, and carefully
strapped his revolver in
his valise, so as to give
any hostile niggers a fair
chance to get away be-
fore he could bring his
deadly weapon to bear
on them. One incident of
his journey is worth re-
lating. On his return
from Herberton he
stayed at Alley’s, on the
Mulgrave. In the morn-
ing he seized his bridle
and chased a grey horse
for an hour through long
wet grass in a forty-acre
Eaddock. At last the grey
orse wandered into the
stock-yard, followed by a
printer’s broker savage
enough to eat a raw eel.
A quiet-looking, unos-
tentatious man was
standing by the slip-rails,
with a bridle in his hand.
When Wimble returned
with his saddle, this quiet
man was just mounting
on the grey h or s e.
Wimble glared at him in
ferocious astonishment.
The quiet man quailed
not before that fiery
gaze. He simply turned
to Wimble, and said:
“ Thanks, mate, for
catching my moke;
yours has been standing
there in the corner of
the yard all the morn-
ing P And, as the quiet
man rode away, Wimble
looked and beheld his
own Bucephalus peace-
fully dozing beside the
calf-pen.
The Russian court
appointed to enquire in-
to the condition of politi-
cal prisoners has decided
on reducing the terms of
expatriation of 51 Si-
berian exiles. Consider-
ing the time the court
has been sitting, and the
uninterrupted stream of
malcontents that has for
years been flowing to-
wards the Urals, the re-
sult of the commission’s
labour has been a veri-
table mouse. Chained in
couples, the women by
wrist, the men by ankle
and wrist, these miser-
ables, surrounded by
bayonets, pass out of
sight on their weary
march eastwards. The
picture makes a fitting
obverse to the medals
struck in honour of the
late coronation. And
yet, when the autocrat
under whose eyes these
abominations are hap-
pening, and whose word
would eradicate the can-
cer which is eating into
the vitals of Holy Russia,
is blown into the air witli
dynamite, a shudder runs
through the civilised
world, and wise men set
themselves to study the
causes of such ferocity.
To the curious in these
matters we would recom-
mend a study of French
history, from the aeces:
sion of Louis Seize to the
decapitation of Charlotte
Corday.
Michael Murphy has
just apoligised to some-
one for abusive language
used “without founda-
tion.” Mick, do you
know you shouldn’t use
abusive language at any
time—unless, of course,
you happen to be a mem-
ber of the bar, and have
a victim in the witness-
box.
The Hon. A. C. Yorke, who was for some
time attached to a couple of Queensland papers,
and is now a tutor at Mountview House boys’
school, Brisbane, is to be ordained to holy orders
in the Church of England at Roekampton, in a day
or two. Mr. Yorke. whilst on Queensland Punch,
had his attention directed to the Hallelujah Band,
and from a critic he became a convert, and soon
after servered his connection with the free and
easy Bobby Byrne. For a while Mr. Yorke was a
member of the “Band” and preached at the
“Bridge” or the “Fountain” nightly. His cul-
tured speech and manner and his graceful diction
were in marked contrast to the ravings of one of
its female members. The clergy, however, even-
tually induced Mr. Yorke to leave the Band and
prepare himself for ministerial work—with what
result has been seen.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 21 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
A REFORMED CHARACTER;
OR,
THE EFFECTS OP PUBLICITY.


ML
A
O
2
a
jiM?
>
u\N®
7fu"fe
&
339
&341
aallMaKS
ijjATC
m
. . *^-5YDHEV^
i v Kcari*y opposite post oppice.
* sqs®eoi»ce street
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality bave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREF.T.
N.B. Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Braes and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair.
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. ”- L
C. B. HI 0 0 D fl I,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
ho^f? I S PIC ? NT i t ?, ck of Sin^le and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading- Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship,
mN.B.“~S°le Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Verth,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solio Bazaar
352 George Street.
Haymarket Auction Rooms
AND
FURNITURE BAZAAR,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
734 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
tSf” HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalments taken.
Open—Mondays and Wednesdays, 9 to 9
Saturdays . . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . . 9 to 6
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
MR. DAVID DUNK,
(Of Paddington)
Beg*s to inform bis old customers and public tenor-
& f K‘sMB b £!sTMfe 6 ur Cb " b ‘" FKDfl '* K -
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
His great experience, viz., 30 years, is a guarantee
* a bMty to excel all othe'ns. Kemember the
address—
17 ROYAL ARCADE, and
461 South Head Road, Paddington.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com -
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
fjl H E MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & he Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
fi-ee from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart; city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
31 HARBOUR STREET.
Watson And crane,
SILVER, NICKEL, & GOLD PLATERS.
BRASS FOUNDERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
Old Electroplated Wars, Cruets. Spoons, and
Forks, Tea Services, &o., re-silver plated equal to
new. at Moderate Charges.
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Iron, and Metal
Furahureand Fittings of all kinds in Meat Style at
JEWELLERY, *o„ WELL CULT.
STEAM) BRASS, ft ELECTROPLATING WORKS.
m PITT STREET,
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellentaccommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
°r night.
weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED I860.
INCORPORATED by ACT OE PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £127,500
__ Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
„ Auditors:
Jaa. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. R. E. Cohen, Esq.
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
_ Directors
Edward Chapman, Esq. | Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
JJAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES,
S44 GEORGE STREET.
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
„ _ T _ . .and Vienna Jewellery,
G £LD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality,
... Note the Address—
644 GEORGE STREET.
\
B
that
ULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALB
preserves this brand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous chamcter, the fullness on
the naiate, aiul the great heaping qualities of the
BDUD-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
t° aa equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
CO.. Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
& CO., Agents.
BROTHERS & CO.
O N
T SIMPS
** * IRONFOUNDER, &o.
Camperdown Foundry,
Lambert-street, Camperdown, West Sydney,
Manufactures all kinds of ornamental Palisading,
Frleae, Fringe, and Brackets, Plain and Fluted
Columns, Window Mullions, Colonial Oven Grates
and General Castings.
attende
$V R ~ 0r A ers fro? 1 the country punctually
to, and forwarded by road, rail, or water
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
“SiKisr
NB*V
TREATMENT
|R. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
f MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old age, caused bv
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence
Each box contains one month’s treatment? 5s a
box, or six boxes for 25s.; sent by mall prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case, with each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 26s., the purchaser will receive
the manufacturer s written guarantee to refun?
the money If the treatment does not effect s cum.
AwitraUiT* chemists and druggists in
HOLLINGDALE & SOH*
JEWELLERS AND WATCHMAKERS,
GOLDSMITHS HALL,
9S Eliaa.g'-street, S3rd.3n.e3r,
E
'Yl/atrfi
DALE
L
4
r
r.i/.H OLLlNCDAUt^^mmMt^J^Ktt^i
me
sa
* •
m
TNVrra Jngpeetlon of their LARGE and
VARIED STOCK in
Gold and Silver Watches,
BRACELETS, BROOCHES, EARRINGS,
Necklets, Lockets, Studs, &o.,
all of the most exquisite designs, and of the
best Colonial Gold.
Rotherham’s and Cross’s best
English Patent Lover
Watches ... f r0 m £5 to £10 10s.
Single-stone Diamond Rings, of
the purest water .. .. from £7 to £78.
Ladies’ Sets, Brooches and Earrings, the most
stock in the city ho select from, in
gold and silver.
SPECIALITY :
THE BUSHMAN’S SIEVE It ENGLISH
LEVER WATCH,
well adapted for hard riding, with strong silver
Albert attached, ££S. Guarantee given for
two years.
Goods posted free to all parts of the colony.
tVatches and Jewellery repaired by efficient
workmen.
ALL WORK GUARANTEED.
E. olff Sz Sort’s
To be had from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
PEAPES aaa.d. SEE.A.’W
Have recently opened large shipments of their now celebrated brand of
Standard Ready-made Clothing.
These Goods are All Wool, and the out, fit, and workmanship is not to be excelled anywhere.
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-TWO SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
“STANDARD » TWEED SUITS, OBORGJS 8TREET -
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS, TWO GUINEAS™ “ d SHAW ’ 8 ’ * E0RGE STREET ’
"STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS. GE ° RGE 8TREET ’
"STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, FIFTY 8 “ d 8HAW ’ 8 ’ GE ° RGE 8TREET ’
ROTE— PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
H n °n f . forward on application, together with
a, and heavy textures, 26s, 30s, 35s,
LENGTHS, and exceptionally well finished, 42s,
ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 30s, 35s, 42s, 45s, 50s.
variety 88ING G0WNS ’ m Scotch Knickerbocker Felt Wool, and Paisley, in great
RAILWAY RUGS in Wool, Plain and Fancy Seal, extra sizes, from 15s 6d upwards.
A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF BAGS.
GLADSTONE’S IN BUFF AND ENAMELLED HIDE
THE EXCELSIOR BRIEF BAG
THE BEACONSFIELD, and a variety of other shapes
nTT«v£2, rtmanteau8 and Overland Trunks, in all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS.
ALL THE NEWEST AND LATEST LONDON SHAPES,
In Black Silk, Drab Shell, Hard Felts.
Travelling Hats and Caps, In great variety,
THE TURKISH FEZ, THE TURKISH n&
• nuv, CNwiMtoMt. - runs * uuv,


MARK
Alexanders
IS THE BEST
FOE HAND OE MACHINE SEWING
HIT Ask for it, and see that you get it.
m
aT.
@11
*
(REGISTERED.)
s3
M
/
W
%
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
UU Ml JEWEltt IE EM WATCHES. So.,
LATEST FASHIONS.
WATCHES, 30s. EiiCIZ.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended to,
_i ■ 11 ■— 1 i I —
Brilliant Lustre.
ORIENTAL GOLD
Enduring
This Magnificent Metal—the latest discovery of science—puts in the shade every substitute for sterling gold ever offered to the public. The best imitations heretofore produced are
entirely superseded aud surpassed by the Brilliant Lustre and Enduring Beauty of the new alloy. So admirable is its appearance and quality, that tlm discoverers Imve not ,
stooped to apply it to common uses. No tawdry articles of inferior designs are manufactured of ORIENTAL GOLD. It is worked up into JEW ELLERY U1
THE BEST CLASS AND MOST TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY, and is
Perfectly indistinguishable from the most costly Sterling Gold Jewellery.
ALTHOUGH SOLD AT PRICES WHICH REPRESENT ONLY A FRACTION OF THE COST OF STERLING GOLD JEWELLERY OF IDENTICAL WORKMANSHIP,
w« want, to He business with neonle 'throughout Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
Residents of Sydney and Visitors from
the Country are respectfully invited to in-
spect our Goods. We count it no trouble
to show them, and no injury if no purchase
is made.
Parcels by Post, on
We are glad to have visitors, because
know that our goods please everyone, and
that those who do not purchase will speak
of our Jewellery to their acquaintance ina
way that will do us service.
_
I
TO SAVE CUSTOMERS THE TROUBLE OF COMPILING A LIST, WE
MAKE UP USEFUL AND ATTRACTIVE
LISTS AS FOLLOVYS
No. 10- Gentleman’s Watch, hunting-, or
open taco with crystal glass, in Ori-
ental gold cases, highly tilnished
works, with Oriental gold albert
Chain £2 3 0
No. 11.—Same as above, except that the
watch is patent keyless £2 5 0
Please observe. We do not pretend that
these are fllty-guinea watches ; but we do affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they are
Indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 12.—Gent’s Watch, h-.nting,oropen
face with crystal glass, in sterling
silver cases, a reliable, sound watch,
perfect timekeeper, specially rated,
with Oriental gold albert chain .. £3 0 0
This is a genuine good goer, strongly made and
specially adapted lor bush wear.
No. 13.—English Patent Lever, hunting,
or open taco with crystal glass,
capped and full jewelled, examined
and rated, in sterling silver cases,
with extremely handsome Oriental
gold chain £4 4 0
Oriental Gold Compass Charm Olil ti
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental Gold .. * 0 7 6
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental
Gold Rings 076
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four 0 8 6
£6 0 0
The watch In the No. 13 parcel is a first-class
article, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a large scale, aiid thus wegetspecial terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, we need scarcely say,
can’t be told from sterling gold articles. The work-
manship is identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter of
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 14.—Ge it’s Silver Hunting Wal-
tham Patent Lever Watch, with
Oriental gold albert chain .. .. £3 10 0
No. 18.—Same as No. 17, except thattho
watch is patent keyless.. .. »
We have sold great numbers of those Indies
watches, and have numerous letters Iroiii pur-
chasers expressing- their complete
goods. Call and see the Jelteis, or ask a h'ieii'
.Sydney to do so. The action of the watch is aw*
ttcal with what is put into sterling gold uascM*
same design, and sold for £8 and £10, and Utni
is no difference in the appearance.
No. 19.— Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in
hunting (or open face with crystal
glass) cases, beautifully engraved,
highly liniahed, full jewelled works,
perfect timekeeper, with sterling
silver or Oriental gold albert chain
w ith slides and tassells ..
£3 5 I
Earrinf*.
jhacvle
NOTE.
Ladies’ very handsome Brooch and Earring
7s Cd, Ills, 12s fid, Ifis, 17s tid, 20s. ■
Ladies’ very handsome Gem Suite, Loc c
collarette or necklet, 20s, 3Cs, lUo- '
Ladles’ Pendants, Lockets, Brooches,
Crosses, Novelties in Bangle.,
mounted with Alaska •
simile of latest patterns in gold and Sant
-Gent’s rings (Alaska Diamonds),
Sols., Sleeve Links, Lockets, Chur
passes, Pencils, &o. ,
Send us from £1 to £10, wl * 'i'» t0
want, and we will f gama ,,,
best of on
approved,
refund as
us xrom xi ui xiu, vou to
and we will make a choice foi P’ 1 11 J( j
our judgnient and forward wa • ..,1
ed, and immediately ret ny jj 1#
as below, or make any desircdsuDM j
Specially Observe.
PT” jf the articles do not answer « £
tion on receipt, re-pack them t u two <W*
them hack. If this IS d° ne , (he ffrst .fL,
or, where mails are row, . (njiiroii- •
after receipt, and the art ‘.f, L ”mJ oiily e Vf Z
will return the money, deducing „„f o*
expended on postage. ' ou j( j rtf turn
article and return the rest, and we
money for the articles not kept. rtllds .v«-
Every watch sold by us will r t , v0 ycsi>
panled by a written wairanty
The foregoing are but
fled to save customers the t 9 jn(f to \
It will he sufficient wheii oroeri » 0>0 . for *
number of the lot. « Got® 0 "-
amount Payabi.e to The OBXJ.fi
474 George-street, Sydney.
OPPOSITE MARKED
ONLY.
m
This cut is the exact* size
and appearance of
THE REVOLVER for ONEPOUND!
A beautifully-finished article, nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre ; 5 shot.
Sent to any part of Australia or New Zealand for £1.
Oriental Gold Company, 474 Sydney.
* Beware of Imposters who out out this advertisement and stick it in their windows over a common burnished iron revolver,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of Arated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vlgorins.
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, nnd flt
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
i
Printed and Published by "The Bulletin” Newspaper Company (Limited), 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, New South Wales.
