

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1. —No. 18.-New Series
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1883.
Prioe—6cL
THE CIRCULATION OF "THE BULLETIN'
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S.W.-THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “THE
BULLETINS ” BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH,
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN ” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1883.
Men and Jingos.
It is to be hoped that there never will be
truthful record that Mr. Gladstone has
accepted a Peerage, One of the wants of
the age is a clear discrimination between
mere noblemen and noble men. In this
colony we have been singularly fortunate.
Some good genius has watched over us, and
has so frustrated the plans of those who
would fain taint our democratic community
with a spurious aristocracy, that in almost
every instance the distribution of so-called
“honours” has created contempt for the
“ order ” rather than induced respect for the
individual selected for distinction. It is
chiefly in great things that a great man shows
his capacity. Mr. Gladstone has been at
his greatest when grappling with the largest
tasks which have fallen in his way. He has
been at his grandest elevation when teaching
an astonished world how to make a principle
triumph over a sentiment. He was great
when, following the order of his ripening
reason and despising the cant of contempt
showered upon him as a renegade, he aban-
doned Toryism for Liberal ideas. He was
great when, amidst a storm of contumely, he
denounced the foolish, and as the end shows,
the futile, Crimean War. He was great when,
despite the cant of clericalism, he a'bolished
that monstrous iniquity, the Irish Church
Establishment. But he was grand when,
the military pride of England having
been momentarily humbled by a hand-
ful of Dutchmen, he, recognizing that
the cause we fought for gave the lie to
our national professions of principle, gave
peace instead of a sword. There are few
incidents in the world’s history so splendid;
few so fraught with prospective hope for
mankind. Men have been magnanimous.
Conquerors have been unexpectedly moved
to pity. But not even the history of myths
veils so magnificent a conception as that of a
hero, covered with the dust of humiliation
and smarting with wounds, yet conscious of
his power to take direst vengeance and
recover his prestige, mastering his soul and
daring to admit himself in the wrong. There
have been, we repeat, magnanimous indi-
viduals ; but a magnanimous mob, a mag-
nanimous company, a magnanimous nation,
never. Never, that is, till Gladstone,
curbing on one hand the insolence of the
moustache-twirling military, and on the
other the insensate ravings of ignorant
sentimentalists, appealed to the heart of
Great Britain for countenance in his tre-
mendous effort to practice national moral
courage, and was not disappointed.
* * ♦
There have been times when Gladstone has
heen exceeding small. The variety of nature
Is infinite, and blends in one skull the
greatest and the meanest qualities. But it
is not with his aspects of littleness that we
concern ourselves just now. The dark hour
is not upon him. As we understand events,
Gladstone is treading the heights once
tnore, and interposing the grandeur of his
soul between the exasperations of little
nations of men. Like Gulliver perplexed
reconcile the microscopic feuds between
the pigmies of Lilliput and of Blefusco,
Mr. Gladstone stands, serious but gigan-
tic, betwixt the Jingos of England and
the Chauvinists of France. There is
food for deep reflection in the singular
moral backwardness of nations when con-
trasted with their choicer individuals. The
nation is hundreds of years behind. It
is mediaeval in its methods. Vain, emotional
blusterous, unreasonable, cruel and senti-
mental, by eddies of feeling. It is in some
relations still scarcely raised above the
animal. As two high-couraged dogs need
only to be presented to one another in atti-
tudes of opposition to fly at each other’s
throats, so two modern nations need but the
accident of a casual incident to bristle into
senseless animosity, and plunge, if not with-
held, into causeless war. It is almost thus
just now with England and France. Irri-
tated by trifles, the meaner instincts
in each nation prompt them into ever
more menacing attitudes. The little
men, in press and public life, heap
up mutual aggravation and affront. Every
action of the one is misconstrued, with a
perversity which seems wilful, but is merely
ignorant and brutal, by the other. The
journals of France heap taunts upon the
English. The journals of England seize on
these puerilities, spread them abroad with
inflammatory emphasis, and respond to
them by promulgating suspicions no less
unjustified and irritating. The vile infec-
tion spreads through the nation, and even
springs, with seeming spontaneousness, from
its extremities. The press and the public
men of these colonies are not free from the
malignant taint. The symptoms appear in
the most extraordinary quarters. To serve
a petty party purpose, a colonial Premier
pretends alarm lest France should seize New
Guinea. No whisper of such a design had
been heard before, but it is no sooner
whiffed forth than it is in every fool’s
mouth. Other Australian Governments re-
peat it with growing emphasis. It is trum-
peted to the mother country with a blast of
conviction which swells there the chorus of
suspicion, already too loud and insensate We
Australians have done our shameful part.
* * *
Then, from other remote spots, the same
ur holy cry is raised. Pious men, meek mis-
sionaries who have devoted their lives to the
saving of heathen souls, start up on a sudden
with boding screeches of “ Smite, and spare
not.” Missionary Jingos—frightful pheno-
mena—rear their horrid fronts amidst groves
of palm, and shriek aloud for troops and
ships of war! Exeter Hall echoes with
their cry, and, in lieu of bleating out the
Gospel of Peace, yells forth for blood and
slaughter, and mingles its obscene mouthings
with the hoarse bowlings of harlot-haunted
music-halls. The missionary raves from
Madagascar of his wrongs, and claims ven-
geance. His fellow in the New Hebrides
rivals his lamentations and denunciations,
and calls on the Devil of War to guarantee
him in possession of his freehold —careless
though the bargain cost him his soul. What
do missionaries want with freeholds bought
from the natives whose souls —not whose
lands—they profess to make their only care ?
Are strategically situated islets, dominating
great harbours, the things they went forth
to save? Surely the age wants no enthu-
siastic friars, who go forth vaunting that
they carry their lives in their hands, yet
who shriek for armies to save them when-
ever a hair of their heads is endangered, and
make a national imbroglio of it if any man
places bis foot on their “property” in the
savage lands where they professed to seek
only a grave I
• m •
In the midst of this mutter of tempestuous
savagery, Gladstone stands sertne, teach-
ing to professedly Christian nations and
Christian ministers a lesson in National
Christian conduct. He refuses to be egged
on by clamour. He detects and re-
proves misrepresentation, and replaces an-
gry exaggerations with calm analyses.
The seething waves of vulgar agitation bub-
ble round him, not unheeded, but .con-
trolled. He will have no strife for strife’s
sake; no war to satisfy hot blood and tur-
gid brains. The real intellect of the world
recognises his singleness of purpose and
broad humanitarianism of view. He dares
to confront a spurious national sentiment,
and to oppose to it a true sentiment of
national t moral courage, the adoption
of which would render any people
illustrious as Greece and Rome have
never been, despite the blaze their
careers cast down the page of history.
French or English, which is the greater
nation? The one which can out moat
throats, be the most successful in the Devil’s
work of smashing and rending men’s flesh
and women’s hearts? No! There is a more
crucial rivalry. That nation is the grandest
which dare approach nearest to the moral
ideal. And, while the feeble passion of
frantic newspapers and publicans shames
both, our country has the highest honour.
It is Gladstone, the Englishman, who faces
the angry mob and smiles patience and
peace while they shout for strife and war;
and among Frenchmen there is found no
man to stand boldly forth and do likewise.
This is the greatest British victory. This is
the true glory. Let Frenchmen snatch an
equal triumph: no man will grudge them
this “revanche/”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bob Smith's Friend’s Garter.
Peace has at last fallen upon our house. The
Lyre tells us that one of the vacant “ garters ” Is
to be filled by the royal calf of Albert Victor, a
son of Wales. Since Spanish garlic and German
sausage met in the persons of King Alfonso and
the Prussian Crown Prince, no more interesting
information has been telegraphed to Australia
Toadyism, like hope, springs eternal in the human
breast. Cut off one head, and half-a-dozen others
fill its place. The news that the Begum of Stlnka-
malee gave birth to another “princess,”- to be
dowered by the State—to swell the list of Royal
mendicants, who would not touch with their fans
the hands that feed them—that “ His Majesty ” of
this realm was helped to the “ undercut ” at a ban-
quet given by “ His Highness ”—that the Monarch
of Bugaboo lost his way while pig-sticking, called
into a herd’s hovel, ate the serf’s black bread,
kissed his wife, and left some coppers on the table
to pay for damage—that a garter was tied a couple
of Inches below the “patella” of an inoffensive
lad, who will probably be taught that civilisation
without garters is as insipid as soup without salt-
all this news must interest some classes in Australia,
or it would not be sent here. What we are
anxious to discover—we will not rest till we find
it out—is, whom it soothes I Supply follows
demand like a shadow. Without the latter the
former has no raison d’etre. Underlying the ele-
ment of tomfoolery in all this, there is one of sad-
ness. It is sad to think that there are men and
women amongst us who, if they had their way,
would Introduce all the worn-out shams which
have done so much to keep nations in swaddling
clothes when they might have had their hands on
the plough of progress. Of those who, by their
MR, MICHAEL CHAPMAN, M.P. FOR THE GLEBE.


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum ™ ,
anti taken at bod-time! m ® aile hot
P tJ R E RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Difarluit,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
OO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
6d.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY Pmra
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER, ° BT
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at
other establishment in the world. 81 any
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE hut WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome oe all Beverages.
0. W, ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDBILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEB PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNEBSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY:.
6s. 6d. per bottle,
C. W. ROBERTS'
Market Street, Sydney.
L! WOOL! 11!
Season 1883-84.
HILL, CLARK & CO.,
SYDNEY.
THE WOOL GROWERS OF NEW SOUTH
WALES AND QUEENSDAND.
THE rapid approach of the incoming wool
season reminds us to tender our thanks for
the very liberal support which has been accorded
to us during past years ; and while doing so we-
take the opportunity to solicit a continuance of
the same support in the future which we have
enjoyed in the past.
On referring to our circular issued last year we
find that we therein anticipated a large increase m
the quantity of wool which would be sold in these
colonies, and the result proved that we were cor-
rect. Wo also predicted that the prices obtained
in the colonies would be in favour of those growers
who sold iu the
LOCAL MARKET,
and this also has boon fully borne out by facts.
We are also glad to say that this market all
through the last season was extremely active, and
the large q uantity of wool sold proves that
SYDNEY
is fast becoming, what It is destined to be in future,
the
WOOL MARKET OF AUSTRALIA.
We have therefore no hesitation in urging upon
growers the advantage of first offering their wool
here, where buyers from all the manufacturing
countries of Europe and America attend tosuppi)
their wants from
FIRST HANDS.
Failing sales in Sydney, we are prepared to ship to
our London Agents, making liberal cash advances-
When sales are effected,
OUR CHARGES
are made on as low a scale as possible, and ab woo
offered in our Warehouses, and not sold, issumec
only to t he nominal eba. ge of
ONE SHILLING l*ER BALE,
which covers receiving, delivering, weighing, ® n
storage accommodation. .
Our Warehouses are partiularly well lighted, *"
are most conveniently arranged for the display
wool, in any quantity, to the greatest advantage-
The most careful attention is given to the valnijJF
of every lot, both large and small, so that not
will be sold under the full market value.
Way-bills and all further information forwa
upon application.
HILL, CLARK AND CO.,
WOOL WAREHOUSES,
CIRCULAR QUAY.
Offices; 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Rates of Subscription to L'he Bulletin
are—For one year, 24s.: half-roar, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. Cd.—In advance'.
The Advertising Hates are 5e. per inch;
special positions in the paner 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.; For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can ot n.ade on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Writings or publications, pander to this ignoble
passion for stars, garters, court-circulars, knee-
breeches, white wands, silk-stockings, and mum-
inery, we do not intend to speak. We might say
too much. Tho most melancholy spectacle in our
remembrance carries us back to the time when—
“ Lightly we vaulted up three pair of stairs
In the brave days when wo were twenty-one ”
to meet the smiling Lisette at the top. Whito-
haired generals, ambassadors, churchmen, scholars,
philosophers, statesmen, bejewelled Rajahs, were
bowing, “genutlecting,” and silent before a couple
Of common-looking lads who should have been
Whipping tops or robbing orchards. We’ve been
morbidly communistic ever since.
M'Eachran Hunting an Apostle.
On the 3rd inst., the Kev. Charles Strong, the
liberal and eloquent pastor of the Scots Church,
Melbourne, put his name to a document which
severs him formally from the Presbyterian Church
of Victoria. On the day after, the document was
In the hands of the Presbytery; and although
consideration of it was postponed for a fortnight,
the severance is complete in spirit. Assuming that
the resignation will be accepted on the 18th, as
proposed, two Sundays will have Intervened on
which Mr. Strong will have had ministerial
charge of the souls of his flock, while In spirit he
is no minister, and, according to his own sbowing ) I
has no flock. It is not his fault that he is not at
once relieved from a position that burlesques the
Idea of a Divine commission, and that he is com-
mitted to a fortnight’s apostolic posturing, the
Sham of which, in the circumstances, he ap-
pears to realize. The fault is symptomatic of the
hollowness of modern belief in general. It does
not seem, to the Presbytery, to be such an
out of the way thing to let a man who has been
an unreliable and false teacher for so long a time,
as they aver that be has been, take an ad-
ditional fortnight — even when smitten with
compunction and blessed with grace to go
out from the Holy House —to give the
founding up flourish to his opinions. To any-
one who knows anything of Church canons,
and of the accepted rules of the Presbyterian
Church of Victoria, it is plain that the Rev.
Charles Strong has been for many a day outside
the fold of which he claimed to be a member.
Formally and Informally he has played the heretic
In the camp which provided him with a support.
He had the countenance of a lay community thai
In turns believes nothing and believes everything,
that flaps about in the sea of reason, anxious only
to hav e the light of a sensation fall upon it. The
Rev. D. 8. M’Eachran is as big a fool as you like,
hut he is a logical churchman. He has signed his
name to formularies of belief and practice, and
accepted the digested creed of his party; and if he
has taken a prominent part in driving the Rev.
Strong to a public expression of what he thought
of the Church that supported him, it appears that
he was only forcing Mr. Strong to an act of
honesty which he would not have performed with-
out external coercion. If Mr. Strong is half as
thoughtful as he claims to he, he should have seen
the chasm between himself and his Church long
ago; and If he is only half as honest as we would
like to regard him, he should return to the Church
the salary he has drawn this last couple of years.
We have known men who did so; hut we have also
known men who ceased to believe, but went on
make-believing, drew their salaries, studied for
the Bar, and took off their surplices just when
they were able to put on the legal gown. We are
glad to see the M'Eachrans kicking such apostles
out. ___________________
Smith has distinguished himself again. The S.M.
Herald, which only opens its columns to record
grave and momentous issues, has trumpeted to
the world the exciting circumstance that the
genius of Smith has again blazed forth. But let
us give it in the Herald’s own portentous words:
“ At the instance of R. B. Smith, Esq., M.L.A., an
Important concession has been made by the
Postal Department.” The grand and commanding
Intellect of Smith at work again, you see I Now,
draw a long breath, and prepare to receive the
intelligence with fortitude. This latest outcome
of the potential genius of Smith is that Members’
letters for the Newcastle mail will henceforth be
received by the Post Office at 10 p,m. instead ol
fl p.m. This is truly an Important accomplishment
—for Smith.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
‘ Law Libel”: (1.) Yes, it is libellous to
threaten a man per post-card with a summons for
debt. (2.) We don’t know whether such a case
has been tried in England. (3.) If you advertise in
the papers the name of a debtor and the amount
of his indebtedness, you clearly libel him by
innuendo “M.J.M.” (Hay): Wo may yet use it...
“M.P. (Boollgal) : We don’t print such matter...
“ .T.V.M.” (Townsville): What are you giving us ?....
“Jobaz” : Excellent “ Lance L.”: We have not
vet had time to read your MS. We have no space
ifor French stories “T.W.K.”: Good sentiment,
but too crudely written for verse—"J.B.P.”:
After reading two verses we are now taking a rest.
“Gian”: Social item excellent; glad of more
on similar occasions... “Stranger”; Thanks—
“ Slow Voung Man ”: Your verses are too jotty in
present form, though rather comical. But we
fancy we have seen something similar in verse
before. Woere did you get your idea of “The
Last Man?”....“ W.J.H.” (Bourke): All right; wiil
do as you desire “W.Y.J.”: “What are you to
do?” Why, if you’re not invited to the club ball,
give a dance same night —“Guppy” : Thanks;
next week.
We do not undertake to return rejected
popununications. Writers should keep copies.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A Bourke blackfellow who was recently
kabbed by one “King Paddy ” slipped out of the
local hospital at night and was found dead in the
lush next morning. One night on a hair mattress
tilled him — 10s. fine in Victoria for tying up a
lorse and beating it to death. In N.S. Wales a
journal has to pay £3000 for telling the truth. The
luestion why Victorian horses should bo 4000
imes more badly protected than N.S.W. asses is
mming to the front The oldest blackfellow in
Jourke killed another nigger. Ho was fat and
Hind and didn’t known where ho was hitting —
When the creditors in a certain recently surren-
lered estate road liabilities £1030, assets £5, they
nurraurod. Now is the simmer of our discontent
nadc a boil over by this goof York's—Some of
he workmen at Swallow and Derhatn’s manufac-
ory, Queensland, occupy their spare time in
>oisoning their employers’ pigs and destroying
heir machinery. To render the “ vacuum pans ”
iselcss appears to be their chief pleasure. The
/acuum pans they carry on their own shoulders
•squire some attention There are now
.3,500,000 sheep in Queensland. Four years
igo there were loss than 6,000,000 A writ
ias been issued against the lessees of the Cook-
own Herald by Captain Lilijehlad, for libel,
lamages laid at £400.. .There are glowing prospects
dr the sugar industry at Cairns, N.Q. On their
iig plantation. Swallow and Derham are getting
is much as 3V£ tons per acre; and if they had
denty of suitable labour, and could obtain a sufti-
leney of cane-carts, they would secure an enor-
aous yield this the first year of their operation ...
It Stoney Creek, Palmer River, prime beet is-seil-
ng at a halfpenny per ft., to the infinite delight of
he Chinese A Coolie was sentenced to a month’s
lard labour up atGympie (Q.), lately. He had run
iway from a plantation. When questioned, he
■old the magistrate that he would “go to prison or
lave his head cut off before he would consent to
fo back to the plantation.” It appears that a
certain bush missionary used to preach there
iretty often. Much sympathy was expressed for
he Coolie, hut the law had to take its course.
• • •
Three of the chief cities of Hesse have re-
cused the sum of £33,000 left, some years ago, by a
la|y to establish a “foundling hospital” in any
orie of them. They regarded it as a slur. We
w$uld like to see the statistics of illegitimate
births in those towns — Professor T. Monte, a
vtll-known athlete, made an ascension with a
balloon at Texarkana, U.S., on July 6. After the
balloon ascended 1000 feet, and when Monte was
performing on a trapeze beneath, it caught fire,
tnd to the horror of the thousands of witne ses,
)he balloon began to rip. Fortunately the burning
ude was up, and the rent in the lower side acted
is a parachute, and he descended safely, not, how-
iver, before one of the trapeze ropes was burned
n two. He lit in a cornfield nearly a mile south
if the town, comparatively unhurt, except his
lands being badly burned. The balloon was
entirely consumed Hill Holdern Bowen,
me of the leading merchants of Walsall,
vas found “ Guilty ” at the Stafford As-
ilzss in July of committing a criminal assault
m a girl who was in his service as housemaid. On
behalf of tho prisoner, £140 had been paid to the
rirl to settle the matter. The jury recommended
ffie prisoner to meroy on account of his previous
rood conduct and respectability; but the learned
judge said he could not pass a lighter sentence
than penal servitude for ten years.-
Mr. M. Chapman, M.P. for the Glebe.
VIr. Michael Chapman, recently returned
or the Glebe, is a native of Cloyue, county
Cork, Ireland. He left home at an early
ige, and arrived in the colony in the year
1840; and, after mastering the oil and colour
trade, he, in conjunction with the late Mr.
15. Beaumont, purchased Mr. Court’s ex-
tensive business, and was one of the lew
who, during the gold fever which had then
broken out, stuck to his business, and for eigh-
teen years he had a most successful career,
tn 1859 Mr. Chapman revisited his native
country, and on his return in 1861 was elected
in alderman for Macquarie Ward in the
City Council, which, with the exception
>f one year, he has since represented. Mr.
Chapman was elected Mayor In the year
1871; and for the energy displayed by hi u in
the management of the civic affairs and the
most unusual precedent he afforded them —
viz., the carrying out the works of the city
within the income, which, it must De re-
membered, was at that time about a third of
its present amount, the Council almost
unanimously re-elected him to the chair for
1873. Mr. Chapman is one of the three
Transit Commissioners, for which position
he has nine times been re-elected by the
Suburban aldermen, of whom there are
about 350. On many occasion- Mr. Chap-
man has been opposed, but up to the present
time no one has defeated him ; he has
been an alderman of the Glebe Council
for fifteen years, and is now in the second
year of his Mayorsnip for that borough.
He has been a magistrate for more than
twenty years, and is a trustee for Hyde,
Phillip, and Cook Parks, also for Wentworth
Park, and is a director of the Sydney Hospi-
tal. Mr. Chapman retired from business
some six or seven years since, his brother,
Mr. J. J. Chapman, succeeding tiirn ; but for
some time previous, as well as since, helms
devoted the best part of his time to public
affairs. In Parliament solid useful work
may be looked for from Mr. Chapman. He
has at all times exhibited broad common
sense, and is a man of independent judg-
ment. [Photo, by the S.F. Palace of Art,
late Boyd.]
We know that there is nothing on earth
equal to Hop Bitters as a family medicine. Book
for.
Lotti Wilmot is proceeding against a well-
known Wellington (N.Z.) citizen for libel. Damages
laid at a modest “ two thou.”
On Monday last, Boyd’s new photographic
parlours were opened to the public, and were
visited by large numbers. The rooms are centrally
situated, being over Paling’s new music estab-
lishment, almost next the G.P.O., and comprise
portions of three floors. They are luxuriously
furnished, and all the; latest appliances of the
photographic art are brought into requisition to
complete one of the most perfect art studios in
Australia. Mr. Henderson, who was specially en-
gaged in the United States by Mr. Boyd, has the
management of the new business.*
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
No sooner is one sore healed in the Mel-
bourne Presbytery than another breaks out. While
the “ elect ” were congratulating one another over
Mr. Strong’s resignation, appeared a letter in the
Age from the Rev. J. Hay. The writer referred
to the Hev. D. S. M’Eachran as “ a combination of
Peckshitf and Uriah Heep.” “Uriah” was bad,
“ Pecksniff” worse; but even Dickens would think
twice before tackling thepourtrayal of both rolled
into one. Lord! How these Christians love one
another.
The Scottish saints are at it During
the course of a Defence of Purity of Worship
pow-wow lately held in “ Ediuboro’ Toon,” a
Major M’Lood observed that “If you look over
vour concordances, you will find the injunction
‘Sing unto the Lord,’ but nowhere will you read
‘Play unto the Almighty.’ ” This, it appears,
makes a lot of difference; and so, after another of
the uncoguid—Mr. Dick—had compared the Psalms
to porridge, and the hymns to pastry, Dr. Begg
struck the floor, and said: “ In regard to the argu-
ment that it is necessary, if wo desire to retain the
young with their musical taste and higher culture,
to introduce organs, 1 say let the young go rather
than allow that innovation.” Go where? What
those fossils want is evidently a Salvation Harmy
drum, or the bagpipes.
The order sent home by the Anglican
Episcopal Election Committee was for a man of
the highest mental calibre and culture, of genuine
personal piety and devotedness, occupying fore-
most rank as a preacher, speaker, writer, orga-
nizer ; able to preside at our general councils with
divnity, intelligence, patience, wisdom, and affa-
bility; a man of vigour of intellect, of experience
in estimating the characters of men and in guiding
their assemblies; a man who would be a leader of
society in the best direction, and competent to be
a safe adviser in all movements connected with the
social problems of t he day—in a word, the exact
converse of the ordinary minister or priest known
in this hemisphere.
“Not only in this age is there freethought,
but a good deal of free living, too.” —Bishop
Pearson.
Free living I Well! we guess you’re right—
A good round yearly screw:
Suit of fine black, shirt front snow white,
And nothing much to do.
A table dress’d with dunty care,
Decanters glowing red;
The price—a prosy pious prayer—
Another's sermon read I
No higher truth could lips e’er tell,
Nothing could plainer lie,
Than that “ the cloth ” oft study well
The art of “living free I”
In a schoolroom on the Victorian Parade,
Melbourne, the Rev. W. Currie held forth last
week on “ Moral Stupidity.” That is what we like
in a lecturer. Instead of descanting on some far
away, impalpable, transcendental theme, as lec-
turers so often do, the Rev. Currie chose a topic
with which ho could identify himself, and by
which, indeed, for a full hour he was a very satis-
factory personification. He was not original, bril-
liant, or Instructive, which showed the study and
ability he devoted to his representation. Henry
Irving was 'not so thorough a realisation of Ham-
let: but, then, Irving dissipated his faculties by
forcing them into conceptions of Henry VIII. and
Charles I. We trust the Rev. Currie will avoid
this mistake, and will rest content with the laurels
he has won in this one great masterpiece of charac-
terization.
The Presbyterian says:—“In fairn ss it
must not be concealed that Protestant ecclesiastics
the most fierce attacks on geology
during the last century and a-haif, or two cen-
turies. In our own day, Protestant clergymen
have written treatises to refute the “ horrid blas-
phemies” of the geologists, and this zealous work
was undertaken, not merely against those who
were trying to pervert geology in the interests of
scepticism, but against those who were as devout
believers in the Word of God as the zealots them-
selves, and a great deal more judicious. Thu sins
of those who lived in former times are recoiling
upon their successors of the present day. But the
questipn again rises, whence came such remark-
able antagonism to astronomy and geology on the
part of ecclesiastics, and their unwillingness to
receive plainest evidence on behalf of truth ? It
is as well for those of the sacerdotal caste to look
these things fairly in the face, and avoid giving
material to be used in coming generations as Judge
Higinbotbam in Melbourne is now using such ma-
terials.” Fancy a Calvinist uttering such senti-
ments! Verily, the world moves.
M. Andre Berthet, of Paris, a small town
in Franco, has just published the “Communal
Catechism.” Here a e a few of M. Berthet s “ best
efforts ”: ‘ What is the Deity ?’ ‘ I do not know.’
• Whence comes the human race?’ ‘ I do not know.’
‘What becomes of us after death?’ ‘I do not
kmivfv ” But a little farther the author gets more
confident, and asks: “ Has the species always been
what they are now?” To this conundrum the
intelligent pupil replies: “Certainly not; the
bird which Hies over our heads has not
always winged its way through the air.’
“ w hat was it before ?” enquires the new teacher.
“ It was at the bottom of the ladder,” says the
pupil, “awaiting its turn. In the beginning it
was a repiiie, Jiving with its fellows in the slime of
the earliest ages. An era came when, impelled by
an instinctive desire for superior destinies, it grew
to loathe its wretched existence. It longed for
change, began to aspire to travel through space,
and Nature, obedient to its persevering instinct,
ultimately realised iis aspirations.” This maybe
very scientific in its way, but it is by no means
consoling to know that the luscious turkey which
graces our festive board, or the fortunate “Joey ”
that nestles in our loved one’s snowy bosom, and
pecks at her coral lips, was formerly a lump of
mud, or a confounded old “gohanna.”
* * ♦
University men won’t join the Churches in
these colonies at any price. So, at least, says Dean
Cowper—in unintentional yet direct confirmation
of Judge Higinbotham s main contention — The
NaraffStera church is closed until further notice,
owing to the serious nature of the charge brought
ngainst Rev. W. Lund—
Dreams.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Indulge not wild, deceptive dreams
Qf thing* that cannot bo:
The scene that is not ever seems
A lairy scene to thee.
The light ol fervid fancy streams
On worlds no mortals see.
Your visions sweet fire phantom-born,
They picture unknown bliss:
Then laugh such shadows swift to scorn,
Or present joys you mi°s.
We may to happier realms be borne—
But now we Jive in this.
The other day, in—■well, in Mudopolis—
old Shylock Abrahams met Tubal Solomon, where-
upon the following conversation “ Hello Shy-
lock, ole man, and how you vas ? I hears your
poy Herman vas doin a pig peesness up at dot
country stores.” “ Herman has left dat blace,”
said the other sadly ; “ you see peesness rushed
off a leetle at first, bud den it drop avay un doan
bay expenses.” “Veil, veil,” cried Tubal, “un
so Herman gone shtone proke agen.” “ Vhell it
gomes to bretty much de same ting Dubai; you
shee der fire didn’t get a fair start pefore dey
prings der tamd't engines along, un squirts id out
on ’im. Poor Herman ! he vas knock gompletely
sthitf ven dey lines der boxes o’ shavins in de
cornel’s, un de keroshene shmeared all ofer de
gounters ! He vas so young you see. un he doan
understhan der peesness. Goot day, Dubai,”


9. Post Offices, Moss Vale and Berrlma, twelve
times a week.
10. Sutton Forest and Cross Uoads, lour times a
week.
11. Kangaroo Valley and Broughton’s Creek, six
times a week.
13. Broughton's Creek and Nowra, three times a
week.
13. Nowra, Tomorong, Wandandian, Conjola, Yat-
teyatah, Milton, and Ulladulla, six times a
week.
14. Nowra, Berrellan, Pyree, and Greenwell Point,
six times a week.
15. Conjola and Redhead, once a week.
Hi. Moga and Toraakin, once a week.
17. From Marulan to Murrumbah, via Wingello,
returning from Murrumbah to Marulan, by
main road, twice a week.
18. Rahway Station and Post Office, Goulburn,
twice or oftener daily.
19. Goulburn and Crook well, twice a week.
3U. Goulburn, Woodhouseiee, Laggan, and Crook-
well, three times a week.
31. Crookwell, Binda, Junction Point, and Tuena,
three times a week.
23- Bigga, Greenmantle, and Lyndhurst, once a
week.
23. Woore and Pejar, twice n week.
34. Wheeo and Narrawa, twice a week; and Nar-
rawa, Reid’s Flat, Graham, and Cowra (Con-
tractor to travel from Graham to Cowra, via
Harris’s, Bennett’s Springs, returning to
Graham, via Darby's Falls), once a week.
23. Taralga and Curraweela, twice a week; and
to and from Curraweela and Jerrong, once a
week.
36. Taralga, Wowagin, and Laggan, once a week.
37. Upper Tarago, Bungendore, and Quoauboyan,
three times a week.
28. Boro and Mayfield, once a week, for one year
only.
29. Bungendore, Molonglo, and Foxlow, three
times a week.
30. Queanbeyan, Molonglo, and Foxlow, once a
week.
31. Queanbeyan and Uriami, via Yarralumla, once
a week.
32. Queanbeyan, Williamsdale, Michelngo, Bredbo,
and Cooma, six times a week.
33. Gegedzeriek and Rocky Plain, once a week.
34. Nimitybelle, Brown Mountain, Numbuggu, and
- _ Bega, via Benbooka Station, once a week.
35. Candelo, Meringlo, and Brown Mountain, via
Benbooka Station, once a week.
86. Candelo, Mogilla, and Brown Mountain, via
Tantawonglo Public School, once a week.
37. Adaminaby and Rosedale, twice a week.
38. Braidwood and Mouga, twice a week.
39. Braidwood, Jombaicunibeue, and Major’s Creek,
three times a week.
40. Major’s Creek and Krawarree, once a week.
41. Ballalaba and Krawarree, via Jerrabat Gully,
ouce a week.
43. Ballalaba to Braidwood, once a week ; and
Braidwood to Ballalaba and Krawarree, via
Stony Creek, once a week.
43. Cobargo and Bermagui, twice a week.
44. Cobargo and Wandella, twice a week.
45. Bega, Wolumla, Merimbula, Pambula, and
Eden, twice a week.
46. Merimbula, Wolumla, and Bega; or Tathra,
Wolumla, and Bega, on arrival and departure
of steamers.
47. Eden and Timbilica, once a week.
48. Breadalbane and Gurrundah, once a week.
49. Breadalbane, Parkesbourne, and Merrilla, three
times a week.
60. Railway Station, Gunning, and Post Office,
Gunning, seven or more times a week.
51. Gunning and Dalton, six times a week.
53. Gunning and Wheeo, once a week; and to and
from Dalton and Wheeo, once a week.
53. Yass Railway Station and Post Office, Yass,
including the clearing of the letter-receiver
at North Fass, seven or more times a week,
54. Yass and Good Hope, via Spring Creek, twice a
week.
35, Murrumbateman and Nanama, twice a week.
56. Downing and Bookham, three times a week.
57. Railway Station, Binaloug, and Post Offices,
Binalong and Burrowa, six times a week; and
to and from Burrowa, Marengo, and Young,
three times a week.
58. Burrowa, MorOngla Creek, and Cowra, via
Narellan and Breakfast Creeks, once a week.
59. Marengo, Bang Bang, and Cowra. via Wate-
mandra and Crowther, twice a week.
60. Young, Thuddungra, Morangarell, and Mars-
den s, via Balabala, twice a week.
61. Grenfell and Brundah Creek, twice a week.
63. Cootamundra, Kllrush, and Jugloug, via The
Grove, Culllnga Creek, Grovescnd, Temple-
more, Cowong, Kyron, Rathdeu, Jereleamby,
and Sandy Creek, once a week.
63. From Cootamundra to West Temora, via
Dacey's, Goraldra, Grogan, and Narraburra
Stations, returning to Cootamundra, via
North Gundibindyal, Woodsto wn, Gundibind-
yal, and Stockinbiugal, twice a week.
64. Coolac and North Gobarraloug, twice a week.
65. Coolac and Jugiong, three times a week.
66. Gundagai andBruugle, twice a week.
67. Gundagai and Tumut, via the marked-tree line,
three times a week.
68. Adelong Crossing-place, Grahamstown, Shep-
ard’s Town, Adelong, Gilmore, and Tumut,
six times a week.
69. Adelong, Reedy Flat, Laurel Hill, and Tumber-
umba, via Hastedt's, Parrot Hill, and M‘Bow-
ling’s of Upper Tumberumba, ouce a week;
and Adelong, Middle Adelong, Reedy Fiat,
Taradale, Bago Station, and Tumberumba,
once a week.
70. Adelong and Mount Adrah, once a week.
71. From Tarcutta to Murraguldrie via Oborne,
returning to Tarcutta via Harnett’s and
Nugent's, on the south side of the Tarcutta
Creek, three times a week.
72. Bethungra, Mitta Mitta, and Yaramatree, twice
a week.
73. Illebo Railway Station and Clarendon, twice a
week.
74. Railway Station and Post Office, Wagga Wagga-
three or four times a day, as required.
75. From Wagga Waggaj to Downside, Marrar,
The Rocks (M’Donald’s), Mimosa, Quandary,
Broken Dam, and Ariah, returning to Wagga
Wagga via Warrl, Uloy, Murril Creek, Cow-
abee, Kiudra, and Downside, once a week;
with a branch mail to and from Broken Dam,
Mandamah, Wallandry, and Wollongough,
once a week.
76. From Wagga Wagga, via Houlaghan’s Creek
(Downside), Kindra, Cowabee, Murril Creek,
Uley, Warrl, Ariah, Broken Dam, Quandary,
Mimosa, The Rocks, Marrar, and Downside,
to Wagga Wagga, once a week.
77. Wagga and Brucedale, twice a week.
78. Jereelderle, Wilson, Spring Plains, Argoon,
Waddai, and Darlington Point, via Kulki,
twice a week.
79. Lowesdale and Middledale, once a week.
80. Cowra, Bull Plain, and O’Brien’s, Victoria
Park, via Redland's School, and Sandy
Ridges, once a week; and Cowra, Bull Plain,
and Murry Hut, via Sedgwick's, Spry's, Pine
Lodge, North Collendina, Kenneth, Murchi-
son’s, M’Farlane’s, Dicker’s, Boxer’s, Kilby's,
Whitelev’s. Wealand’s, E. Creed’s, W. Creed’s,
Carpenter’s, Shand’s, Green Hills, Mitchell’s,
M’Neill’s, Fry’s, Austin’s, Brown’s, M’Lel-
lan’s, Cooper’s, Garland’s, Burns's, and
Ryan’s, once a week.
81. Corowa, Hopelleld, and Carnsdalo, via Tyrone
School, and Oiitree or Kentucky Station,
once a week.
83. Bight’s Forest, Ehenezer, and Walla Walla
Station, twice a week.
83. Old Junee, The Reefs, and Sebastopol, via
Wholahan’s Creek and Erin Vale, once a
week.
84. Rankin’s Springs and Wollongough via Eura-
thra, Malonga Nariah, Wallandry, Bulygul-
man, and Merringhara, once a week.
85. Darlington Point and Hay, travelling on the
south side of the river, three times a week.
86. Hay Railway Station and Post Office, once or
oftener daily.
87. Hay and Booligal, three times a week.
88. Hay, Booroorban, Wanganelia, and Denillquin,
six times a week.
89. Booligal, Mossgiei, Ivanhoe, and Wllcannia,
three times a week.
90. Balranald, Euston, and Wentworth, twice a
week.
91. Mlnlndle and Mount Gippg, once a week,
Northern Roads.
St. Leonard’s and Buena Vista, once a day
Hornsby- and Peat’s Perry, six times a week.
Peat s Ferry and Gosford, once or twice a week.
Gosford, Blue Gum Flat, Wyong Creek, and
Cooranbong, twice a week.
Gosford, Erina, and Womberal, twice a week.
Wyong Creek Post Office and Farramaion*.
once a week.
Cooranbong' and Wallsend, three times a week.
Newcastle, Glebeiand, The Junction, and
Charleston, six times a week.
Stockton aud William Town, three times a
week.
Railway Station, Waratah, and Post Office,
Waratah, six or seven times a week.
Railway Station, Waratah, and Post Offices,
Waratah, Lambton, and Wallsend, six times a
week.
Raymond Terrace and Miller’s Forest, six times
a week.
13. Booral and Bulahdolah, three times a week.
(Tenderers to specify a price for a coach, as
well as for a horseback service.)
14. Bulahdolah, Boolambayte, Bungwall Flat, and
Forster, via M’Rae’s Sawmills and Burruduc,
twice a week.
15. Bulahdelah aud Hawke’s Nest, once or twice a
week.
16. Bulahdelah and Coolongolook (Worth’s), once a
week.
17. Copeland North and Bowman, via the Left-hand
Branch of Back Creek and Criterion Machine,
twice ft week.
18. Taree, Cundletown, Ghinnl-Ghinni, Croki,
Coopernook, Holy Flat, Camden Haven Punt,
and Port Macquarie, six times a week.
19. Taree and Redbank, three times a week.
20. Wingham and Cedar Party Creek (W. Baine’s),
twice a week.
21. Woodside, Knorrit Flat, and Nowendoc, via
Cooplacurripa, once a week,/or one year only.
22. Dingo Creek and Wherrol Flat (Contractor to
travel via Dingo Creek Bridge in times of
Hood), twice a week.
23. Cundletown, Oxley Island, and Mitchell's Is-
land, twice a week.
24. Port Macquarie, Telegraph Point, East Kemp-
sey, and Kempsey, six times a weea.
25. Port Macquarie, Itawdon Island, Ennis, and
Morton’s Creek (Boechwood), via Craig’s,
three times a week.
26. Telegraph Point and Holland’s Plains, three
times a week.
87. Kempsey, West Kempsey, Green Hill, Warne-
ton, and Sherwood, three times a week.
28. Kempsey, Frederickton, Smith Town, Glad-
stone, and Summer Island, via Seven Oaks
(mails to be conveyed between Kempsey,
Frederickton, and Gladstone, by boat in time
of Hood), three times a week.
29. Fermount and Bast Raleigh, twice a week.
30. Bowraville and Argent's Hill, once a week
(contract to terminate at three months’ no-
tice on either side).
31. Gresford, Allynbrook, Halton, and Eccleston,
three times a week.
32. From Morpeth to Hinton, fourteen times a
week; and from Hinton to Morpeth, seven
times a week.
33. Hinton, Seaham, Glenoak, and Clarence Town,
six times a week ; and Clarence Town,
Brookfield, Newpark, aud Dungog, three
times a week (if floods prevent tue malls
being conveyed between Hinton and Seaham,
Contractor must travel via West Maitland,
and the Belmore aud Dunmore Bridges).
34. Bendolba and Underbank, twice a week, for
one year only.
35. Railway Station, High-street, and Post Office,
West M itiand, six or more times a day, as
required.
33. Wollombi and Laguna, three times a week.
37. Railway Station, and Post Office, Branxton,
fourteen or more times a week.
38. Singleton, Boggy Flat, Warkworth, and
Jerry’s Plains, via Thorley’s, three times a
week.
39. Singleton, Scott’s Flat, Sedgefleld, Westbrook,
and Glendon Brook, twice a week.
40. Warkworth and the Bulga, three times a week.
41. Glennie’s Platform, and Post Office, Camber-
well (Contractor to convey the mails arriving
by the evening train, when the steamer ar-
rives too late at Newcastle for them to be
forwarded by the mail train), twice or thrice
a week.
42. Railway Station and Post Office, Muswollbrook,
iourteen or more times a week.
43. Mufiwelibronk, Denman, Giant’s Creek, Gun-
gal, and Merriwa, six times a week; and to
and from Merriwa, Bow, and Cassllis, four
times a week.
44. Muswellbrook and Dunbar’s Creek, twice a
week.
45. Merriwa and Idavllle, via Terragong, Mountain
Station, Cream of Tartar Creek, and Messrs.
Bourko and Simmons’ residence,once or twice
a week.
46. Cassllis and Turee Creek, via the surveyed line
near Rotherwood, twice a week.
47. Denison Town, Bolaro, and Cobbora, twice a
week.
48. Aberdeen, Rouchell Brook, and Davies Creek,
twice a week.
49. Blandford and Timor (Silver Mines), once a
week.
50. Murrunmdi, Glasston, Blackvllle, Yarraman,
Bundella, and Tam bar Springs, three times a
week.
51. Railway Station and Post Office, Quirindi,
twelve or more times a week.
52. Quirindi, Castle Mountain, and Wallabadah,
via Quirindi Station and main road, six times
53. Quirindi, Warrah Ridge, Pine Ridge, and Colly
Blue, via Kickerbil and Webland, twice a
week.
54. Boggabrl and Mullalcy, via Guest’s, W, Con-
roy’s, J. J. Conroy’s, VV. Kelly’s, J. Conroy’s,
W. Tey’s, J. P. Whiteman’s, and Cunning-
ham’s, once a week.
55. Railway Station and Post Office, Narrabri, six
or more times a week.
56. Narrabri and Dunmore’s, via Gregory’s, Arn-
dell’s Farm. Baker’s, Billingsley’s, Davis’s,
Capel's, Roacho’s, Orman’s, Standford’s,
Pratt’s, Sorel’s, Thirkettle’s, Millar’s, and
Ward’s, Eulah Creek, once a week.
57. Narrabri, Eulourio, and Blngora, via Killarnoy,
Edgerol, Single’s, Berrigal (Terri-hl-hi Out
Station), Rocky Creek, Pallal, and Dorra
Derra, once a week.
58. Walgott and Carinda, via Kidgear, Polly Bre-
wan, Bogewong, and Warren Downs, once a
week.
59. Walgett and Goodooga, via Springs, Grawin,
Wilby Wilby, and Muokorawa, once a week.
60. Garah and Kunopla, via Whalau (in time of
flood Contractor will bo required to travel to
and from Moree and Kunopia, via Garah and
Whalan, if necessary), twice a week.
61. Kunopia and Munglndi, via Grarnan, Colunah,
Champaln’s, and Myall Plain, once a week.
62. Kunopia and Goondiwindi, once a week.
63. Tamworth and Moor Creek, twice a week.
64. Barraba, Eulourie, and Moree, via Burindi,
Tareela, Little Creek, Currangandl, Ullem-
barolla, Pallal, Dera, Banghet, Ginerol.
Gravesend, Binnigi, and Baldwin’s, once a
week.
65. Bingera and Bundarra, via Coorangoora, Keira,
Beverley, and Long Reach, once a week.
66. Warialda, Boggabilla, and Goondawindl, via
Oregon, Allison’s, Old Gunyerwarlldi, New
Gunyerwarildi, Yalarol, Tooloona, and Cop-
permarenbillen, twice a week.
67. Railway Station, Moonbl, and Post Offices,
Moonbl, Bendemeer, Kingstown, Bundarra.
Stanborough, and Inverell, three times a
week, for one year only. Contract to termin-
ate at 3 months' notice on either side, should
it be arranged for the Railway to be opened
to Glen Innes, prior to 31st December, 1884.
68. Stanborough, and Tingha, three times a week.
69. Inverell. Oakwood, and Warialda, via Bannock-
burn. Piersby Hall, Reedy Creek, Gragin, and
Myalla, twice a week.
70. Kentucky Railway Platform and Carlisle Gully,
via Kentucky Station, twice a week.
71. Railway Station and Post Office, Uralla, twice
or oftener daily, as required.
72. Armidale, Invergowrle, George’s Creek, and
Bundarra, via Laura Station, once a week;
and Armidale, Invorgowrie, and Bundarra,
via Laura Station, once a week,
73. Armldale and Oban, via Ouyrah, Rock: Yale,
Armldale Gully, Aberfoil and Ward’s Mistake
Head Station, once a week; and Armldale
and Oban, via Guyrah, Coningdale, Kilcoy on
the Chandler, Falrview, Camperdown, Lynd-
hurst, Aberfoil, and Ward’s Mistake Head
Station, once a week.
74. Armldale, Booroolong, Sandy Creek, Wands-
worth, Kangaroo Camp, Elsmore, Brodie’s
Plains, and Inverell, via Evorsleigb, Ollera,
Mqredon, Paradise Creek, and Newatead,
twice a week; Armidale, Booroolongr, Sandy
Creek, Wandsworth, Kangaroo Camp, Tingha,
Gilgal, and Inverell, via Ollera and Cope's
Creek Station, once a week; and Wands-
worth, Elsmore, Brodie’s Plains, and Inverell,
via Moredon, Paradise Creek, and Newatead,
once a week, by vehicle, for one year only.
Contract to terminate at 3 months’ notice on
either side, should it be Arranged for the
to be opened to Glen Innes, prior to
31st December, 1884.
75. Armldale, Wollomombi, Bellbrook, Hicky’s
Creek, West Kempsey, and Kempsoy, via
Hillgrove, Glogla, Long Flat, Towel Creek,
Poedre Creek, and Toorookoo, once a week.
iS' ®' 8m °ro and Slannifer, twice a week.
77. Glen Innes, Y Water, and Emmaville, three
times a week.
78. Wellingrove and Emmaville, via Wellingrove
Station and Strathbogie, once a week.
Emmaville and Tent Hill, three times a week.
80. Emmaville and The Gulf, once a week.
81. Emmaville and Torlngton, once a week.
82. Deepwater and Tent Hill, twice a week.
83. Tenterfleld, Sandy Hill , Boorook, Drake, and
Tambulam, twice a week.
84. Clarence River Steamers and Post Office, Iluka,
■ as required to meet steamers that arrive and
depart, or that pass up and down the river;
and Post Offices, Iluka, and Clarence River
Heads, twice a week.
85. Brush Grove and Tyndale, twice a week.
86. Steamer’s Wharf, Grafton, and Post Office,
Grafter, on arrival and departure of steam-
ers.
87. Grafton and Southgate, twice a week.
88. South Grafton and Gerrymberryn, twice a
week.
89. Wardoll, Rous, and Alstonville, twice a week.
90. Lismore and Bexhill, once or twice a week.
91. Tumbulgum and Tweed Heads, via Cudgen
(Boyd’s), once a week.
93. Bexhill, dunes, Eureka, and Marshall’s, Bruns-
wick River, via Benny’s Creek, and Togarah
Grass, main Road, once a week.
93. Ballina, Emigrant Creek, and Tintenbar, twice
a week.
Suburban Roads.
1. General Post Office, Newt wn, Macdonald
Town, St. Peter’s, and Tempe, twelve times
a week, and Tempe, Aruclilfo, Rockdale,
Kogarah, and Woniora, six times a week.
3. Tempe, Bexley, and Hurstville, six times a
week,
3. Burwood, Enfield, Drultt Town, Bankstown,
and Upper Bankstown, twelve times a week.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 39th August, 1883.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may bo in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does no* bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR BOYS, CASTLE-
RE AGH-STREET, Sydney!
APPLICATIONS for permission to attend the
examinations for the admission of pupils to
the above school, to be hold on the 20th instant
and the 10th January, 1884, respectively, should be
addressed to the Head Master at the school.
G. MILLER,
Acting-Under Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 8th September, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR GIRLS, ELIZA-
BETH-STREET, SYDNEY.
APPLICATIONS for permission to attend the
examinations for the admission of pupils to
the above school, to be held on the 20th instant,
and the 10th January, 1884, respectively, should be
addressed to the Head Mistress at the school.
G. MILLER,
Acting-Under Secretary-
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 8th September, 1883.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 31st August, 1883.
LAND SALE.
ATTENTION is called to a Sale of Drown
Lands, to be held at the Land Office,
Parramatta, on the 36th September, 1883|
comprising lands, in County ©f Cumberland,
Parish of Field of Mars.
Town Lots.
At the town of North Parramatta, front in
Grose, Fennel, Harold, and Albert streets, an
Bullet and M’Arthur streets.
For further particulars see Gazette of 35t
August, 1883, No, 351, at Police Office or local Lan
TENDERS for the following Mail Services,
either by ooaeh or on horseback, for
or three years (with the exception of
♦hose line* for which a special term is
lined), to commence from tno 1st January,
will be received up to noon on TLTES-
jjAY, the 23rd October next.
The signatures to each Tender must be wlt-
- L “ P d by a Magistrate or a Postmaster, otherwise
ho Tender will he liable to bo treated as informal.
tU The Tenders must be addressed to the Secretary
Vhe Post Office, Sydney, and endorsed “ Tender
“ 1 the Conveyance of Mails.”
1 The Postmaster-General does not bind himself to
„ the lowest or any Tender.
Rach successful Tenderer for the Mail Services
Oich the Bank of New South Wales, Sydney, to
ihe credit of the Secretary, General Post Office,
chancy (and must lodge tne Bunk deposit receipt
therefor with the Secxetary to the Post Office), a
“ e nual to 20 per centum of the annual amount
which the Tenderer offers to undertake the
service. This amount to be absolutely forfeited
the Government in case the person whoso
Tender may bo accepted shall fail to complete,
within thirty days of the date of notice of the
acceptance of his Tender, the usual bond and Con-
tract to the satisfaction of the Government. The
notice of acceptance of Tender, if delivered at
the Sydney address of the Tenderer or his agent
(which address should be stated in the Tender),
nhall be deemed sufficient.
B The money deposited in the Bank by the success-
ful Tenderer, In each case, to be returned after he
shall have performed the service for, say, one
calendar month, to the satisfaction of the Post-
master-General.
for full particulars see Government Gazette,
a tile of which is kept at every Post Office in the
colony. No tender will be considered unless the
terms of the notice published in the Gazette be
strictly complied with
General Post Office,
Sydney, 3rd September, 1883.
CONVEYANCE OF MAILS.
fmhered Western Hoads—40, 45, 53, 58, and 61;
it hern Koads-13, 27, 32, 57, 60, 68, 69, 75. 76, 85, 87,
ft and 90; and Northern Hoads-18, 24, 33, 43, 67,
Wl Dt I 4. 4 H 1*4 ti,l II 4 ll l,/,/) /I /I , 111 I 4Ur>>. nn II.-
.n’d "4 must, within three days, either personally
. 'iUn hnnHa nf his flffftnf - . in SviIupv (iAnoail*.
hv’the hands of his agent in Sydney, deposit
OF . nf \Totr Slnnlh Woloa Uirrlnmr 4m
Western Roads.
Parramatta, Field of Mars, Ermington, Car-
lingford, and Pennant Hill, six times a week.
Baulkham Hills, Castle Hill, and Dural, six
times a week.
Windsor and Wilberforce, six times a week.
Windsor and Pitt Town, six times a week.
Wilberforce, Bbenezor, and Sackvllle Reach,
thive times a week.
Richmond, North Richmond, and Kurrajong,
siz times a week.
Penrith and Castlereagh, six times a week.
Bowenfells and South Bowenfells, six times a
week.
Mudgee, Avisford, Hargraves, Windeyer, Pure
Point, CampbeU's Creek. Long Creek, Upper
Pyramul, and Crudine, twice a week.
Mudgee, Cullenbone, and Guntawang, twice a
week, for two yearn only.
Mudgee, Merindee, Burrendong, and Ironbarks,
twice a week.
Mudgee, Budgee Budgeo, and Cassilis, twice a
Home Rule and Canadian Lead, six times a
week.
Mundooran, Merrygoen, and Coolah, via Queens-
borough Flat, Bothero, Digllah, and Dunik-
minl, once a week.
Rydal, Meadow Flat, Mitchell’s Creek, and Yet-
holmo, three times a week.
Parana, Mutton’s Falls, and Oberon, three times
a week.
Oberon and Black Springs, twice a week ; and
Black Springs and Jerrong, once a week.
Oberon and Gingkin, twice a week.
Oberon, Fish River Creek, and Duckmaloi,
three times a week.
O'Connell, Wiseman's Creek, and Esslngton,
twice a week.
Railway Station and Post Office, Bathurst,
twelve or more times a week.
Bathurst and Freeman tie, once a week.
Bathurst and Hill End, via The Bridle Track,
three times a week.
Peel, Clear Creek, and Limekilns, twice a week.
Hill End, Tambaroora, and Hargraves, once a
week.
Perth Railway Station and Post Offices, Cow
Flat, and Rookley, six times a week.
Cow Flat and the Lagoon, twice a week.
Railway Station, Newbridge, and Post Office,
Caloola, three times a week.
Trunkey Creek and Long Swamp, once a week.
Trunkey Creek and Tuena, via Sands, Coppo-
hannia, and Pine Ridge, three times a week.
Blayney and King’s Plains, twice a week.
Spring Grove Railway Station and Post Office,
Guyong, throe times a week.
Spring Grove and Forest Reefs, twice a week;
and Forest Reefs and Cadia, twice a week.
Ouyong, Byng, and Icely, three times a week.
Railway Station and Post Office, Orange, twice
or oftener daily.
Orange and Lucknow, six times a week.
Orange, Springside, Cadia, and Carcoar, once a
week.
Orange, Borenore, Choesoman’s Creek, Cudal,
Toogong, Murga, Eugowra, and Forbes, six
times a week.
Orange and March, twice a week.
Orange and Canoblas, twice a week.
tondobolin, Wardry, and Bauabalong, along
the south side of the Lachlan River, twice a
week.
Eauabalong and Lake Cudgellico, twice a week.
Bauabalong, Willanthry, Hlllston, Whealbah,
and Uooligal, twice a week.
Molong, Meranburn, Bumberry, and Parkes,
six times a week.
Parkes and Buugandramlne, via Ginnaniguy
and Coradgery, twice a week.
Railway Station and Post Office, Wellington,
twice or oftener daily,
vellington, Yeoval, Mount Aubrey, and
Parkes, twice a week,
ooonabarabran and Tambar Springs, via Brad-
»L 8 Bi *by Creek, Clay Holes, and Salt-
water Creek, twice a week.
Railway Station and Post Office, Dubbo, twice
or oftener daily,
B *l oc ,klehurst, Burslem's, Gilgandra,
prili i?’ Gulargambone, and Coonamble, via
ggle Creek, Talbragar Bridge, and
rii7hK raim ! r W amine > three times a week.
Dnhh)! o 1(i Go I ar bigill, twice a week,
a week n1 ’ iIurrUD 8'undy, and Cobbora, twice
Ouiarg a mb one ) Quarabone, and Carlnda, via
weeku 6 8 ancl F1 y nn ’ 8 Stations, twice a
Bnna’J’ and Walgett, v ia Yowee,
W»m>n ’u ingadee, and Nugal, twice a week,
"* ount Harris, and Carinda, twice a
GongmL« nd ~ West Bogan, twice a week.
n-, n .? 0 n and Brewarrina, twice a weak.
Brpwn7-i.r Jr, , re warrma, twice a weak,
via n?, aa ! lalawanta, Brenda, and Goodooga,
Wpii,nr. n - la , i ll l a ’ Blangboyde on the Biree,
Gunm,?,. r ,. ngh Station on the Culgoa, Tatala,
week ner y- and the Bireo Stations, once a
B r U u r n ke, ,,i“ u S? u Py» b . Enngonla, and Barrin-
'AS. 8 *' Bourke. Gedia Camp Lake,
BeSit 1 ? 8 ’, Native D °sr Spring, Lila, and
Bourke ice a weck -
Austr’aiin« u A’ and tbe Cornish, Scottish, and
rahan Copper Mines, once a week.
1. \aKfl m Southern Roads.
*• Cantc r h l f ad n Ca . n I \ e V bur -V. twice a i
hfingeliv and 0 /! Beln i 0 ?’ e * 8ix time
Schoof aa )l Greendale, via Gre<
week 1 and Greendale House,
4 t>* eolc -
week° W and Werombi, t
5. D WK *
?• Alfio'q'p' 1 ar8b all Mount, three
•• Gougi ag [t aDd Jamberoo. three
Cataract * and Wilton,
j week. ’ “ llu " ihui
& r fttafn an «fv?i on ’ Ea8t K
rwon, six times a week.


REMEMBER THIS,
IE YOU AEE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach ©r bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cuve
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will find a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
trios—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
akin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JE500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHA
9*
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
543, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—! respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
Sent post free for Is. stamps to defray postage.
“TRUTH,”
A TREATISE showing the under-surface evils
of society that cause Impediments to Mar-
riage ; Celibacy ; Woman ; Advice to those about
to Marry. Also, the Injury caused by the use of
Tobacco and Alcohol; Howto Regain and Preserve
your Health ; &c. &c. Address
R. T. SELBY, M.H.,
DEVONSHIRE ST., SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY.
MAL T BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, &o.
43 ERSKINB STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemist*.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
I been against me, that has. Perhaps, if I’d been a
scholar, I should have made a ‘ square book long
ago; but there—more likely I should have been
up to forgery, or some thing' or another; so
it's best as it is.” Bill, however, is not without his
good points, and often puts his hand in his pocket
for a “ knocked-out one,” more especially it he
happens to be the antithesis of Bill 4 straight.
Not long ago an old German gentleman
arrived at an hotel in Ragatz, and being of unpre-
tending appearance, was awarded a chamber on
the third floor, commanding a fine prospect of a
brickfield, and endowed with a permit to the occu-
pant to ring as many times an hour for the waiter
as he fancied, and to yell as many times a minute
for the chambermaid as he pleased. Those were
the apartment’s chief advantages. The old gen-
tleman rang for t he waiter till he was faint, and
I howled for the room-girl till he was hoarse, and
otherwise enjoyed himself. Finally, ho pitched his
boots down the well-staircase on to the hall floor
to be cleaned, while the air was heavy with curses.
The chambermaid gave the boots to the waiter,
the waiter handed them to the major-domo, and
the major-domo ran with them to the landlord.
The owner’s name was upon them — Count von
Molke.” That evening the Count had the liver-
wing of the chicken, and the landlord had the
buckle of a strap.
After 250 nights of singing the part of
Gretchen in “Rip Van Winkle,” at the Comedy
Theatre, London, Violet Cameron has broken
down, and who do you think has taken her
place ? Miss Agnes Consuelo I I Under Mr. Alfred
Moul’s able tuition, Miss C. made “ rapid strides
in Melbourne, but when she took Kate Chard s
part in “ Boccaccio,” though the “ boys at each
corner of the circle —the 4 tambos and bones —
pelted her with bouquets, the pit was pensive, and
the stalls sarcastic. And, when we also state that
the family circle was cynical—you’ve about got it.
And now Agnes is to supersede Miss Violet
Cameron, one of the loveliest, as well as one of the
cleverest, of English opera-bouffe artists I Let s
see Of course / Why, Alfred Mnul is m Lon-
don just now, too! We suppose, then, that still
under his able tuition she has made still more
rapid strides. Sans dnute. During Musgrove s
season we saw a good deal of Consuelo. Indeed,
we saw a good deal of all the company. H umph!
Presenting J ohn Tait with a picture of his
genial old self will be a sort of ttite-a-tStc affair.
It is now said that Chambord was poisoned.
Par more likely the royal glutton over-ate himself
once too often. His life was almost literally “ du
lit d la table, de la table au lit."
Those 130 members of the Sydney News-
boys’ Brigade who heard the address of G. A.
Lloyd, ex-M.L.A.,the other evening, now know all
about Aske’s Hospital School, and how diligence
thereat and subsequent perseverance as a clever
trader and pious Congregationalist landed the
speaker on the proud pedestal which ne now occu-
pies—in his own estimation.
It was stated when the Baroness Burdett-
Coutts married Mr. Alphabetical Bartlett that she
had to sacrifice a large amount of her weaitn.
Perhaps she had; but as she still has the Bank, with
fifteen millions in ready money in England, ana
twenty millions of dollars in the U.S.A. funds,
Ashmead will, we reckon, be still able to attend
the Freethought lecture on Saturday night, even
though he has to stop the weekly shilling he used
to sling to the German Band.
When steady-going Mac., who has managed
the Age these last 18 years, pocketed his presenta-
tation purse in Clements’ Ca« last week, there
was a regular set-to of back-rubbing all round.
“ Never saw such men as the Age men, said Mac.
“ Never even heard of such men! ” said the schol-
astic Pearson. “ I’m blowed if there s the like of
ub anywhere!** said the great David. And then
Joseph Syme said something; and, as might be
expected after Joseph speaks, the report runs:
“The Age office was then drunk. What we
should like to know is, when wasn’t it?
Mr. Harold Stephen’s novel tale, “ Ettie’s
Error,” is a magnificent creation. The plot hangs
on an ole man kangaroo. Husband entered in his
diary “Killed old man” to-day. Wife saw entry,
accused hub of murder, and vamoosed. Here s
another Idea for Mr, Stephen. Girl about to be
married to large iron manufacturer. Heard ot him
engaged with “ pig ironconcluded he was pork-
butcher; broken engagement; marriage to spite;
error discovered; divorce, and junction ot first
lovers.
Before we forget it! The Merry Duchess—
celle de Montrose—now races under the name of
“ Mr. Manton.” She still adheres to the Scarlet
of the late Mr. Stirling Crawford, and has made,
through her trainer, Alec Taylor (we speak with
the familiarity that is born ot the sporting world),
large additions to the stud. It is rumoured, when,
on a recent occasion, what Alfred calls a ‘ f rarker
occurred at Newmarket, the Prince of Wales went
up to the Duchess, and endeavoured to quieten
her. Alluding’ to her Grace’s complaint, the
Prince said, soothingly, “You can go to the
stewards, Duchess.” “You can go to—Jam-
beroo,” was the angry reply. This, too, in the
“ best society I”
Two big “ bursts-up ” in the highest circles.
Yes, ladies. You lay aside your “ yellow-back.”
put down your tatting, and leave off staring at tne
young man over the way, when you hear this.
We became slightly paralysed when we first heard
it; and, as might be expected, our paralysis was
more due to sorrow than surprise. Fancy! or.
rather, as we are addressing ladies— only fancy I
His Serene Highness the Duke of Teck (he s, like
Jacko, a prince in his own country) and Her lloyai
Highness the Princess Mary Adelaide, Duchess of
Teck, who were on their marriage given several
thousands a year and free lodgings in Kensington
Palace—where the Queen was born—have called a
common auction of their goods and chattels, and
gone away to reside in Yarmany.
No one who has passed through the danger-
ous stages of typhoid can be said to be ever pro-
Eerly out of danger afterwards, for the system is
ivarlably left weak and tonseless ; but, although
the Prince of Wales lives in a palace of glass so tar
as the public goes, no one appears to remark the
extraordinary care he takes of himself. When he
leaves the opera or the theatre, he muffles up with
a thoughtfulness for which he is not given credit,
and as for his propensities as a “ trencherman, the
old days before the fever, when he could hold his
own with the best, are dreams of the past, c p
one ever sees him now touch any food at a banquet,
unless it be a piece of dry toast and a well-cooked
chop, with the very plainest accessories. Epicures
have no cause to envy the Heir Apparent, who,
surrounded by the good things of life, is perforce
obliged to adopt a hermit-like abstemiousness.
Little Byrne, of Queensland Figaro, tells
his readers that he is “ not going to pass round the
hat this time,” and further informs them that his
costs in what he terms “ the Cowlishaw two-
thousand pounder ” amount only to £150. Fancy 1
Two days’ Supreme Court law, and the costs only
£1501 Two days’ proceedings, and only Hang
it! Why, here, the Crier gets that. Bobby s paper,
by the way, though it may appear lively to the
folks up there, is really and truly dull to us. It is
all “Sam,” and “ Cowlishaw,” and the majestic I.
It seems (amongst other things) that “ Sam ” called
Bobby “ a liar ” from the platform, and “ J. Edgar
thus mystically addresses the ex-Premier: I ask
Samuel Walker Griffith, if it is not due both to his
own gentlemanly • eputation and to my slandered
character that he should retract a false charge
which is being used as a weapon against me by
political and personal opponents.”
“Ouida” has been reported gone dead ever
so many times. It is now said she has gone mad.
The writer of “Pencillings of the Week,” in Land
and Water, says;—“ There is truth, I have reason
to know, in the pitiful story that has been circu-
lating about ‘ Ouida.’ And it is all the more sad
because so utterly unexpected. There was nothing
about Madame de la Ramde that suggested the
possibility of mental derangement; nothing, I
mean, that ought not with equal force to be ap-
plicable to any other distinguished worker in
literature and art. At the Langham, a few years
ago, living in seclusion, she made many friends.
Her dress was rather showy, and perhaps not in
the best taste—a somewhat singular comment on
the knowledge she always displayed in her writings
of what good taste in women’s dress should be.
Her bright yellow hair and her singular walk were
conspicuous, but her voice and manner had the
tenderness and simplicity of a child.”
Mr. Mundy, whose first wife ran away
with Lord Shrewsbury, set. 33, the Premier Earl of
England, to whom she is now married (mem., the
happy pair are now once more in the “very best”
society), has married again. When they were
being churched, a crowd of the tenants stood out-
side, and as the service was longer than usual, one
elderly ten nt thrust his head In the doorway, and
howled out to his crony, the sexton : “ Mike,
Beaint they a cornin’?’’ Not very tunny, is it?
But, this is. When the bridegroom at the tenants’
dinner returned thanks for the bride, he said, in
one part of his speech: “ Oh, happy task to devolve
on me to thank you on behalf of one peerless as
she is beautiful, lovely as she is chaste—one whose
heart is too full to respond. I have” Then
cried a loud voice in enthusiastic tones: "Lung
may she stay arruingstus!" And there was a dead
silence. The next section of Mr. Mundy’s oration
related to the burning of the ox whole.
The “father” of English “welshers” is a
man known among the scum of the course as
“ Bill the Butcher.” He is universally regarded
as patriarch, on account of his somewhat vener-
able ago and unusually successful rascality. Bill is
not a welsher in the ordinary acceptation of the
word; he would himself, probably, describe his
profession as “ mug-catching.” One of his fa-
vourite racecourse devices is to introduce hnnselt
to confiding strangers as Archer’s father, produc-
ing, at the same time, a pair of spurs, which, he
informs them, are for “ my boy to wear in the
next race.” Should the confiding ones express a
desire to invest a few sovereigns on the mount.
Bill kindly allows them to “standin” with the
“fifty he has just put on for himself.” Once,
while entertaining a select party of choice and
kindred spirits with some of his sporting reminis-
cences, Bill happened to mention that he was un-
able to write his own name, “ and,” added he, “ it’s
nurtured on daily texts of Bible life, and he was
only with you a little when he backslided, and is
now an Age journalist and a professional poli-
tician!” Therefore, Rentoul is to sit in the tub in
the Theological Hall, and explain the difference
between certainties and probabilities. The bt.
Kllda people will miss him. But the rising Presby-
terians will have fun.
Mr. Reginald Bloxsome, our readers—es-
pecially our fair readers-will be glad to hear, is
luxuriating at Glen Innes, where he and several
other roystering young blades are managing the
station. None of them have had much experience
in the business as yet, but they are getting on.
Reginald, since he has been there, has made thirty-
live attempts to see the sun rise, but the nearest
he has got to it is having his chocolate served in
bed at half-past nine, and being ready for his man
with the curling-tongs at 11. They are going to
muster cattle on that station shortly, and in view
of this arduous trava.l, Reginald and his com-
panions have all ordered high patent-leather riding
boots with pointed toes, and spurs with three-inch
rowels, in which they will look like so many Claude
Duvals who have taken to cattle lifting. The
proprietary practised with their stockwhips two
weeks ago to the great profit of the Glen Innes
and Armidale doctors, who were engaged for
several days in replacing eye-balls and sewing on
squares of ear-flap. They have got a splendid
drag, have this bucolic “ push,” and whenever a
travelling show bills the town they drive in, Mr.
Bloxsome winding the horn through the streets of
Glen Innes with a vigour sufficient to freeze with
envy the heart of the ice-cream man. Consider-
able interest is felt, it is said, on the subject of the
forthcoming mustering,- since the squatters are
anxiously considering a proposal of Reginald’s to
pile a vast heap of carrots, turnips, mangold-
wurzels, etc., in the centre of a big paddock, and
wait until the cattle, attracted by the scent of the
esculents, pour in of their own free will to devour
them. Should this plan prove successful (us no
doubt it will), the grazier contingent contemplate
giving, in Glen Innes, an amateur performance of
« Patience,” the boots ordered for the muster to
be worn by the officers.
Oscar Wilde, even now he is back in Lon-
don, is making a lot of money lecturing on
America, at a guinea a pop ; and he seems as pe-
Some years ago, (we quote from the Yass
Courier) the late aboriginal King Andy, when
camped near an out-station on the Fish River,
noticed the hut-keeper put a good-sized damper
into the ashes. The hut-keeper having occasion
to leave his abode for a short time, Andy removed
the damper from the fire, put the grindstone
in its place, and made off. When, on his return,
the hut-keeper pushed the spade under what he
supposed to be his damper, he remarked as he
lifted it, that it was heavier than when he put it
in. All the latent poetry of his nature was evolved
when he discovered his grindstone done to a turn.
Thus Paris Figaro concerning Victor
Hugo’s latest work, the fifth volume of the
“ Legende des Steeles” :—We should bo wanting in
respect to the public, and to the poet himself, who
is strong enough to bear the truth, were we not to
declare openly how dull, wearisome, and unneces-
sary tor his glory are the satiating productions of
his senility. Prosopopoeias heaped up, one on the
other, words strung together at hazard, metaphors
which ill conceal the poverty of the ideas, form to-
gether indigestible reading, and, as Soileau’s epi-
grammatically said,(in speaking of the works of
Corneille's old age :
“ J’ai vu i’Ag^silas,
Hdlas !
Mais apres 1’Attila,
Hola I”
The Rev. J. L. Rentoul, of St. Kilda, is a
most amusing personage. The amusement Is all
the finer because of the Quid-rides look he bestows
on all beholders. He has the smoothest top of a
head in Melbourne, and from the eyebrows to the
apex he is modelled after the style of the Exhibi-
tion dome. He is rather a better-looking man than
Shakespeare from the ears up, but the family like-
ness between him and the great poet would incline
one to take him, not for Shakespeare’s son, but for
his father. Well, he deserves to have his picture
taken, for he is to be the new Professor of the
Presbyterian Theological Hall. That Professorship
is after being hawked abo t the Three Kingdoms,
but a telegram has come to hand saying that
further quest there is useless. No scholar would
come out to Melbourne after the disgrace that has
fallen on Professor Pearson. “ We should be
tempting heaven too much,” exclaimed the tele-
gram. “There’s that young man, the son cif pious
parents, brought up in the odour of sanctity, and
cullarly popular as ever. He has—like another
poet we know of! —had his hair cut, —[in this we
sorrowfully recognise a cowardly side-thrust at a
brother scribe — Bd.B.] —and now appears on the
platform in orthodox evening dress—possibly hav-
ing left his calves on board the “Russia ’ —the crack
Cunard Liner, which Oscar patronises. On hi, first
appearance at the Prince’s Hall, some evil-disposed
person subsidised an organ-grinder to play out-
side. This demoniacal Neapolitan having been
bought off with lawful currency, a German band
came along, and by way of giving the Esthete a
send off (they do these things in the profession, you
know!) played the “ Last Hose of Summer with the
leader’s own variations and a bassoon ohligato.
About the merits of Oscar Wilde’s discourse critics
madly differ. Society, for instance, says, “ Oscar
Wilde attracted a big audience, but he couldn t
keep the people awake.” It seems, * he used
‘ lovely ’ forty-three times, * beautiful twenty-six
times, ‘ charming ’ seventeen times, and * hand-
some ’ once.” With the personal pronoun he was
equally generous. And some rather smart man
has written an epigram re this continual use of the
I —a species of “damnable iteration, be it said,
that the paragraphists in some of the London
weekly papers possess to perfection. Here it is:
“ Like Argus, Oscar Wilde appears
To each who his oration hears ;
For every sentence testifies
. He has a multitude of F s.”
We can do a little bit in this line, too, out here;
notwithstanding that we do run wild in the bush,
and live on ’possums, which we slay with a
boomerang. You have all seen Oscar s portrait.
Eh, Men— , ,, , ,,
Your lectures though they may have flaws,
Will be successful, have no fears ;
You’ll never, Oscar, lack applause.
While you have those emphatic ears!
After this chaff, let us tell you what Dr. Lyon
Playfair thinks of it:—“ I thought the lecture was
a little too long, the stories excellently told, the
voice clear and quiet, the paradoxes a little too
subtle for the audience, and the whole thing ori-
ginal, and quaint, and interesting. Mr. Wilde
seems to last, so there should be something in his
doctrines. By the same token, Peter Campbell
lasts, so there should be somethins in his. We
hope there is ! We almost pray there is !
Personal continued on next page.
THE POSSIBILITIES OP COLONIAL LIFE.
Old Resident (to New Chum): —“ Do you see that old chap over yonder? him with
the basket.”
New Chum: —“Yes, yes. Well?”
O.R.“ Well, sir, ten years ago that man landed in Sydney, with exactly one shil-
ling sixpence ha’penny in his pocket, and now ”
New Chum:—“ Most extraordinary ! How much is he worth now ?
O R.“ Why, sir, not a farthing, and he owes for the basket I”


The Furniture Column.
MANIFEST, OH 1 Yes, very manifest It is to
me that the Manifesto issued by CAMPBELL
of the Royal Furnishing: Arcade, Is a
BULLETINTHEBnLLfeEYB ; for certain it is that
the power and legitimate intentions of a sovereign
were never made so manifest before.
‘A BULLETIN OR MANIFESTO,’
THE OBJECT OF THE PUBLICATION.
Presuming you read the introduction, we now
pass on to the object of the publication, at the
same time reminding you that our remarks do not
bear upon one subject throughout, but deviate
from the path, turning into by-ways where the
reader’s thoughts are turned to subjects of a dif-
ferent character. The object of the publication
is to announce a special season at the Royal Fur-
nishing Arcade—a season acceptable to the public,
a season remarkable. The stock is of such extent
that it must be reduced, room must be made for
fresh arrivals, and with this object in view reduc-
tions have been made, and revised price lists pre-
pared which cannot fail to attract the attention of
all judicious, careful, and economically-disposed
buyeis.
CAMPBELL BOOTHERS.
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
436 Gesrge-street, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel.
REDUCED PRICES, and REVISED HOUSE
FURNISHING LISTS.
Everything marked at the Lowest Net Cash Price.
GOOD INVESTMENTS FOR EVERYBODY.
SPECIAL lines in Drawing-room Furniture
SPECIAL lines in Dining-room Furniture
SPECIAL lines in Bedroom Furniture
SPECIAL lines in Fancy Goods, &c.
For the sum of JB35 prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows:
PARLOUR.
Round or Oval Claw Table
Cheflonier
Austrian Suite, consisting of couch, two
arm chairs, and six small chairs
Pier glass
Pair gilt frame pictures
Cornice pole, with rings, curtain pins and
brackets
Clock
Pair lustres...
Lamp
Fender and irons ...
Tapestry hearthrug
Matting for room...
Door sup
BEDROOM, No. 1.
Four-post bedstead, with head and foot-
rails
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Two feather pillows
Chest of drawers
Towel-rail, washstand and toilet set
Water caralfe
Rocking chair
Toilet table
Toilet glass
C. S. chair
Table toilets
Matting
Door slip
BEDROOM, No. 3.
Single bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
C.S. chair
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Matting
KITCHEN.
Pine safe
Pine table
Two chairs
Six meat plates ...
Six soup plates
Six pudding plates
Six cheese plates
Meat dishes, Is 3d, Is 9d, 3s 3d ...
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Set of 3 jugs
Cruet
Six china cups and saucers
Six china plates
China sugar basin
China butter dish
China milk jug
China slop basin
Six china egg cups
Pair salt cellars
Six cut tumblers
Six cut wines
Six knives and forks ...
Two table spoons
Six dessert spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle
Boiler
Saucepans, Is 9d, 3s, 4s
Frying pan
Gridiron
Tea pot
Tea caddy
Coffee pot
Wash basin
Tubs, 4s and 5s
Bucket
Dipper
Colander ...
Two tin candlesticks
Knife box
Baking dishes, 8d, lOd
Rolling pin
Pepper caster
Flour dredge
Set skewers
Nutmeg grater
Broad grater
Kitchen spoon
Meat stand ...
Hair broom
Washboard
Pair flat irons
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish ",
Bread crock
Pair bellows ...
Set shoe brushes ... ...
Hand brush •
Dust pan
£ s. d.
10
17
15
16
10
8
13
5
7
13
0
8
3
The £50 list will appear next week.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426 CifiORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTKU
THE Circulation is Enormous. Never belore
have we known such a demand for any book,
and we do not know of any like publication issued
in the interests of a business that has ever attained
such a notoriety. “A BULLETIN or MANI-
FESTO.”
IT CONQUERS PAIN.-HE ADVISES HIS
PERSONAL FRIENDS.
“Glen View, Darlinghurst,
“ August 17,1883.
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“ Dear Sirs, —It gives me great pleasure to say, in
the most unqualified manner, that I have found
St. Jacobs Oil the best preparation for Rhematism,
Gout, and other pains, that I have ever used or
known. A member of my family was sulfering
from a severe attack of rheumatic gout both in the
hands and feet. The pain was most excruciating.
I suggested her using St. Jacobs Oil, and am pleased
to say the result was of a most satisfactory charac-
ter. After one or two applications the pain en-
tirely left, and up to the present have had no
return of the trouble. I look on St. Jacobs Oil
as a universal panacea for all kinds of aches and
pains. I have advised many of my personal friends
to give it a trial, and have heard from them that
nothing they had ever used did them so much good.
It is, without doubt,the only Household Remedy
of modern times, and I shall always keep a bottle
within reach.
“ I remain, dear Sirs, yours faithfully,
“J. R. Drewett,”
NOTE. —Mr. Drewett is the well-known town
buyer for Messrs. S. Hoffuung and Company, Pitt-
street, one of the largest and prominent firms in
all Australia.
HOW A USELESS ARM WAS RESTORED IN
TEN MINUTES, or the experience of Edward L.
Green, Esq., Government Sheriff at Auckland,
N.Z.
“Auckland, New Zealand, August 16,1883,
“ Messrs. Publishers Bulletin, Sydney.
“Dear Sirs, — I have great pleasure in stating I
had occasion to use St. Jacobs Oil for an old injury
I received to my shoulder in June, 1883, and from
that date until July 10th last, I could not use my
arm, and found great difficulty in writing. 1 ap-
Elied to medical men and used all sorts of liniments,
ut without any benefit; but I had not used St.
Jacobs Oil more than ten minutes before I felt the
beneficial effect, and I can work with my saw or
spade as well as ever I did, and can strongly recom-
mend this oil to any one suffering from muscular
ailments. You can make what use you please of
this letter for the benefit of others.
“ I remain, dear Sirs, yours, &c.,
“Edward L. Green, Sheriff.”
St. Jacobs Oil. the great German remedy, con-
quers pain. Sold by Druggists, Chemists, and
Medicine Dealers throughout the world. Price in
New South Wales, half-a-crown a .bottle. Direc-
tions for using in 11 languages.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
The Rev. S. Robinson, the new incumbent
of Shepparton, is waking - the Goulburn Valley
to the splendours of belles-lettres accomplishments.
He’s not long let out of Trinity College, Dublini-
ensis, and the couple of autumns he spent with
the New South Welshers made him think that all
the granary of Victoria wants is a knowledge of
the divine reach of the human mind. Richard
Brinsley Sheridan illustrated the divine reach on
this occasion. His Reverence discoursed of his life
and works as only a new chum Irishman can, and
the stolid farmers are beginning to be aware that
Heaven did create another great man besides
Graham Berry. They were tickled with some of
Sheridan’s verses on love, and the lecturer sug-
gestively offered to present a copy to any young
man who applied for it, as he was quite sure the
young man would return within a week to get the
knot tied. But it was in his earnest humours that
the lectuter brought his audience up standing.
Take this, for instance : “ I must say, in fairness
to Sheridan, that much of his depravity proceeded
from his intimacy with the Prince of Wales.” And
put this in your pipe and smoke it: “ Had Sheridan
been born the son of a labourer or a tinker he
would have ended his days in New South Wales!”
The Rev. Robinson is a man, every inch of him,
but he’ll get tired of telling sublime truths to the
yeomanry of Moira.
It is a matter of congratulation, some-
times, to be, if not positively plebeian, at least cut
off by the barrier of democracy from a close as-
sociation with the creme de la creme of humanity.
It is pleasant, of course, to be in a “ good set,” and
it is the day-dream of many to be able to crawl
into the company of dukes that are drunkards, to
hobnob with viscounts who are vanriens, to asso-
ciate with earls that are infamous, and to bow be-
fore princes that are all three. We were once a bit
that way ourselves, and remember, when the
Princes were here, thirsting for little Bob Smith’s
blood when we beheld him chosen sun-protector
to their Royal Highnesses. But we are a bit off it
now, and we will tell you why. A case—Nunn v.
Little —was recently tried in London, the action
(with which we have no concern! being for the
recovery of some £6000 worth of diamonds. In the
course of the case, Mrs. Nunn said that “during
their residence in London they mixed in
the best society; ” going on to admit that she
had allowed her insane daughter, aged 16,
to live with A lexander Henderson, the theatrical
manager, who was close on 801 She addresses
Henderson in her letters as “Dearest Hen.,” and
this passage will give the reader a general idea of
the character of the correspondence : “ And, as I
connived at what was going on between you, that
I am not deserving of the full income which would
otherwise have been allotted by law. You and
Blfrlda are watched, and so I write this to put you
on your guard. . . . You must, dearest Hen.,
for the child’s sake and for my sake, be more
cautious just now; it will soon be over.” After
this, we are beginning to think it will be some time
before we shall be qualified to move in “the best
society.” We feel that, before being qualified to
shine m patrician circles, we should either have to
kill a child or steal a goat.
Here is a little society item. Prince Napo-
leon has paid a visit to the Princess Dolgorouki at
the Ville des Freemonts at Trouville. Rather a
square commencement, eh ? Well— attendez, mes-
sieurs et dames. We had a bit about Cora Pearl
last week; here is a bit more. It was Prince Plon-
Plon who gave this lady her first send off. Her
name was Emily Crump, and she had come to Paris
a nursery governess; but, meeting a “ mash ” one
day in the Champs she discovered suddenly
that the erstwhile novelty of spanking children
was a novelty no more. The “ mash ” was no less
a person than General Trochu (since dead), who
was then a dashing Colonel of Artillery. He was
succeeded by a long line of the military, and then
Prince Napoleon had nn innings. This made her
famous —or infamous, if you will. She was ugly,
coarse, and grasping: he was the same. So there
was sympathy between them. After the Prince
came young Duval. This was a pudding-headed
youth whose father was the king of Parisian
butchers, and who had countless restaurants estab-
lished on an original plan in every arrondissement
of Paris. Young Duval was extremely rich, and
he played a very good Antony to Cora’s Cleopatra.
He haunted her hotel. He loaded her with dia-
monds. He loved her. And she hated him. He
wo Id wait for her by the hour in the front par-
lour while she was mashing the boys over the back
yard gate. But she always came at last One day
he had stirred up the clock sixteen times, been
forty-nine times through the photographic album,
read every word of the advertising almanac—and
she came not. Then M. Duval ordered round his
ponies, sent his groom home, drove to the Bois de
Boulogne, dined there sumptuously, and when the
moon came peeping down upon the fluttering
snow, he went out smoking a cigar, and shot him-
self through the heart. Cora, we hear, is now in
difficulties. We are sorry for this. There’s not
much to offer her out in Australia, it is true; but,
should she care to venture the journey, we think
she could count with some degree of certainty
upon at least a Victorian portfolio.
If that exemplary toast-and-water print,
the Melbourne D.T., has in times gone by
chastened heterodoxy with whi s, in the time to
come will it (if what we now hear is true) chasten
heterodoxy with scorpions. The Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego of the syndicate by which
the holy paper has been purchased are Messrs.
Davies, Balfour, and Francis Ormond. Davies is a
pious 1 a w y e r —rariss imaav ium rara rum —who is
supposed to have made a colossal fortune by
lucky land speculations. Balfour is a wealthy
merchant, son-in-law of the late Rev. Dr. Cairns,
and a Presbyterian of the most uncompromisingly
ealvinistic type—hell-fire, eternal damnation, and
all that sort of thing; and Ormond (a partner of
that brilliant moralist, Premier Service) is a phi-
lanthropist of the noblest type, whose aspirations
for the good of his fellows appear to be as wide
and deep as his purse, which is saying a great deal.
Whether this triumvirate will be able to walk
through the fiery furnace of public opinion un-
harmed, remains to be seen. Some people
are afraid that they will not. Mr. Walker,
an ex-schoolmaster and member of Parliament,
a gentleman possessing solid if not brilliant
attainments, will continue to act as editor, and, as
already stated, Mr. Harry Short, late of the Akgus,
one of the most competent all-round pressmen in
Australia, is to be sub. That scintillating genius,
Mr. Charles F. Somerton, altogether severs his
connection with the affair—whereat the pressmen,
with whom the aforesaid Charles had as much
in common as Mr. Francis Ormond has in common
with the Evil One, sing loud paeans. Mr. Somerton
will be succeeded by Mr. M‘Kin ley, one of the
promoters of the World. The reporters of the
D.T. will, in future, be attired in correct eccle-
siastical ostume, to be supplied at their em-
ployers’ expense by the tailor-in-ordinary to the
Presbyterian Assembly. But, however this may
be, there is a fervent hope among Victorian press-
men that the paper, under a new liberal manage-
ment, will, whatever be its policy, emerge from
the Dead Sea of utter and unspeakable dulness in
which it has been engulphed—for many years.
The new Duke of Marlborough, is not, so
far as we can see, having such a gay time. Being
so unfortunate to have been found out as the
Marquis of Blandford, his accession to the Duke-
dom has aroused such a horde of sleeping dogs
that his Grace has been practically barked, for the
present, clean out of England. It seems, indeed,
that the Duke, who is, we may remark, an accom-
plished litterateur, is not a man of snow-flake
morality. Not content with upsetting the Earl of
Aylesford’s matrimonial apple-cart, while the
noble Earl ” (as big a scoundrel, if possible, as
the Duke) was in India, he, we quote a London
contemporary, “ struck the woman (the Mar-
chioness of B.) whom he had sworn to protect, and
who was about to become the mother of his child.
And ( when the noble father was told of his
child’s disfigurement, he gave vent to a sneer, and
advised his wife to treat the blow which caused
the injury as ‘an historic incident.’” It
would be difficult to more than quietly admire a
ffian who would do this thing, yet it is on record
that he was, on his accession to the title, warmly
welcomed by the clergy of his district. This must
have been either because the heart of the parson
is swollen over with the spirit of absolution and
‘Wgivencss, or because the duke is the patron of
thirteen livings. Besides possessing the vast es-
tates of 31enheirn and Woodstock, conferred upon
his ancestor by the nation, this most noble Duke
draws an income of £5000 from an obliging - coun-
try ! There is something in this fact that causes
the Englishman already proud that he is an English-
man, to feel extra proud that he is an Englishman!
It seems that Lord Randolph Churchill (member
for Woodstock) and his brother are not speaking.
Lord Randolph is not even, politically immoral.
It may be interesting also to know that the current
number of the Fortnightly contains an article
by the noble Duke on “ The Limits of English Re-
volution.” This paper will be read by many with the
same interest that after the crash came attached
itself to the effusions of “ Janus Weathercock,”
and after the Marwoodian ceremony to the stories
and sketches of Arthur Lefroy.
Here are two American stories told by a
recent arrival in Australia. A young son of the
Duke of Westminster was travelling in the
States, and on board a train met an inquisitive
Yankee. The latter to the sprig of nobility :
“What house do you travel for, stranger?” “I
am not in the commercial li e.” “Travelling for
the insurance business?” “No, not travelling for
the insurance business.” “ What are you travelling
for, stranger?” “I am travelling for pleasure. ’
“ Oh, that's a line thing—rich, I guess ; eh ?”
“ Pretty well off.” “Big business?” “I’m notin
business.” “Not in business, but rich! What do
you live on, stranger ?” “ The fact is I have an in-
come.” “Mines?” “No, not mines.” “Some of
your Consols, then ?” “ My father makes me an
allowance.” “ Father very rich ?” “ He is well
enough off.” “ Oh, that’s what you depend
on? Depend on your father, stranger ?” Then, sud-
denly after a reflective pause; “stranger, what’d
ye do if the ole man was to bust ? ”
Here is the other. On board a Lake Superior
steamer the same American met a distinguished-
looking Britisher, who, he ventured to “presume,”
was travelling on business. “Yes.” “Commercial
man?” “No.” “On pleasure ?” “No.” “Thou
what’s your business here, stranger ?” “I repre-
sent the British Government.” “ Oh, the British
Government. Important post, I reckon.” “Yes,
pretty important.” “Something political, I guess ?”
“ Yes, it has a political significance.” “ Perhaps a
matter of delicacy ?” “ It is a rather delicate
matter.” “You needn’t be afraid of telling me
about it. stranger, as I’m a man of the most refined
and delicate nature.” “ Had I not perceived that
for myself, i should not have allowed you to ques-
tion me so long. I don’t mind telling you all aLout
it, on condition that you don’t let it go farther.”
“Just you bet, stranger, I’m the man can keep a
secret.” “ Well, here you are: You are aware that
the dividing line between Canada and the States
runs through this lake ?” “ Yes.” “ Well-now,
mind, I rely on you as a gentleman (o tell it to no-
body—my mission is to bottle up our half of the
lake and ship It to England.”
The Prince of Wales is so popular that he
has a friend even in George R. Sims, who is a
radical of the deepest dye. He is, perhaps, the
most generally liked heir-apparent of the present
day. Yet, we remember, even long before the
Mordaunt business, when H.R.H. had contrived to
get himself very much disliked indeed. One reason
for it, rumour had it, was this At that time
(about 1885) there was a rage amongst all classes
for musical ditties and their singers. You could
hear nothing all day but “ Champagne Charlie is
my name 1” Come and be a member of the Rollicking
Rams,” “Down in a Coal Hole,” “ Up iua Balloon, ’
and similar outrageous trash. Well, the Prince, so
the story went, gave a bachelors’ party at Marl-
borough House, and inv.ted “ The Great Vance,”
“Leybourne, the Lion Comique,” “Henri Clark,”
“Jolly Nash,” and a few more of these tuneless
blackguards to sing before him. The concert
over, it is- stated that the Prince and party got
“tight,” and lateriniheeveniugHis Royal Highness
endeavoured to take “The Great Vance” into
Brooks’s Club. Vance, of course, was “ put
out on his head,” and an unseemly row ensued be-
tween the Prince’s suite and the members. That
was gossip .it the time, whether true or not Heaven
and the Prince only knew. The World gives a
sample few days of ‘ Wales’s” life in an article that
is otherwise singularly stupid. Thus : “ Day suc-
ceeds day, and week follows week, each competing
with its predecessor in the multiplicity of its dis-
tractions and the incessant exertions which it
exacts ; but the Prince of Wales is conscious of no
strain. He sits up into the small hours, lays a
foundation-stone before the dawdlers of Mayfair
and Belgravia have done their breakfast, witnesses
a launch of a ship at noon, presides at a banquet
which is called luncheon, and, having taken part in
several other celebrations during the afternoon,
dines with Lord Bath, goes .oa ball at Lady Rose-
bery’s, as he did ten days ago, and dances ener-
getically all the night. The next morning he pays
Baron Ferdinand de Rothschild a visit in the iordiy
pleasure-house which that Amnhitryon has built
for himself, and during the space of three or four
days particlpates in a a series of functions which
do not admit of a moment’s pause. A special train
1 hurries him back for a London charity fete, and a
dozen hours later his Royal Highness is off to
Hamburg.” Stiff work this. “Almost”—as the
man in the play says—“ almost as ’ard as oldin’ the
od.”
Of “Press” power no better illustration
was ever given than that of Forbes’ success as a
lecturer. A trenchant, nervous, sympathetic
writer, he was wanting in all the attributes which
go to make up a speaker. Yet, people came from
far and near to listen to one who had looked on
the Saturnalia of the Commune and stood before
the White Czar. This is not so much a subject for
wonder. The creme, dr. la creme of England
jostled, sweltered, wrestled and—it is said—
blasphemed in May Fair drawing-rooms to get a
sight of the Shah, who could notspeak at all, and
of Cetewayo, who looked like a Christy Ministrel
interlocutor grown fat. The real wonder
came in when crowds of enthusiastic listeners,
many of whom had bung on the renderings of
Brooke, Montgomery, Bellew, Charles Clark and
Miss Dargon, dwelt on the Great War correspond-
ent’s superiority. Then the power of printers’ ink
and puffery came home to us. But it is not of
“Archie” but of “Alec ” Forbes we have now to
speak. “ One touch of nature, &c.,” and the touch
was given when, in his last Sydney address, Forbes
alluded to the brother who had climbed the same
mother’s knee and passed away in the wilds of
Australia. Stories of that brother’s recklessness
and talent have been freely bandied about, but a
correspondent who knew him as a shepherd on the
Upper Dawson sends;us a little of what he says is
the true story of his wasted life. He was not the
enfant terrible he is painted, but a rather retiring
man who wrote poetry and occasionally recited
it. Of one piece, “The Wreck of the London,”
our contributor speaks highly. Those who think
it odd that a man adapted for better things should
fritter away the precious years tending sheep in a
sub-tropical country, should know that the case is
far from exceptional. Away to the north and
north-west, far from the din of cities—away on
the vast plains where the horizon is as unbroken
as at sea, and the sun in summer rises and sets like
a ball of lire—are to be found shepherding, dam-
sinking, rail-splitting and prospecting, men who
pulled “ stroke” on the Isis or the Cam, followed
the fortunes of Ulysses with Virgil, swaggered in
the brave uniform of crack cavalry corps, or
romped with grisettes at the Barriers. They are
not rowdies, or blackguards, or larrikins. They
belong to those who, somehow, took the wrong
turning when the road of life was bordered with
tlowers, and are too proud to turn back. As youth
gives place to middle age, ambition and energy dis-
appear, monotony and exposure do their work,
and through the bare windows of a “bush” hos-
pital the sun peeps in upon the last scene of all
Of such was “ Alec” Forbes.
» ♦ ♦
John Frederic Hilly, of Sydney, who has
just passed ad majores, was more than an ordinary
architect. He was a true artist, which in these days
when the architect is rarely more than a builder’s
draughtsman, was something to be proud of... .
Comptroller Maclean in his prison report writes
about “ plura} cellular occupation.” If this is the
kind of English taught to prisoners by the gaol
schoolmasters, we may look out for a steady in-
crease in the burglary rate Angus Mackay, of
D.T. notoriety, who represents Sandhurst (a fact
which alone is enough to make people hold Sand-
hurst in very high estimation), regrets that Brough
Smyth was removed from the Victorian Secretary-
ship of Mines, thereby realising- the singular
position of being the only person in Australia
(Brough alone excepted) who entertains that
opinion Arabella Kenealy, second daughter of
the late notorious Dr. Kenealy, has taken a medi-
cal degree in the College of Physicians, Dublin,
coming out first in order of merit over 50 can-
didates, of whom two were women That popu-
lar and much respected civil servant Mr. Howard
St. George, P.M.—known to Far Northmen as “ The
Saint”—has been transferred from Cooktown to
Aramac. In 1873, when the Palmer Goldfield came
to the fore, Mr. St. Geox-ge was chosen to lead a
party sent to open the port of Cooktown, and find
a road t > the Palmer. He was accompanied on
this expedition by Mr. A. C. Macmillan, surveyor
of roads, a few troopei-s, and about eighty miners,
He was stationed on the Palmer as Warden and
Police Magistrate until August, 1874, ever since
when he has hold the post of P.M. at Cooktown.
Hodgkinson, of the Palmer, wax-den, who has got
a three months’ holiday, is coming South Mr.
John Mayo, the racenox-se owner, wants to get
£10,000 for alleged libel from the Melbourne
Argus Mrs. Hallox-an, wife of Mr. Arthur
Edward Halloran, Sheriff of Queensland brother
of Mr. Henry Hallox-an, of Sydney), has just died
at the ago ot 6t.
The Times has issued its halfpenny morn-
inf? journal. It is called the Summary. We know
a daily hero that, while it could not, with justice,
aspire to the title of the Summary, might claim,
with a la rye show of appropriateness, the title of
the Wintkry. By the way, the Times is the only
daily journal in London that does not publish
“contents” sheets. Mr. Walter, it is said, has set
his face against this mode of advertising: his paper.
And, talking- of newspapers, reminds us of a Jour-
nalistic joke of Lawton’s, who is one of Hiscock’s
Federal Minstrels. He says : I had a paper once.
It was a tri-weekly paper, mine was.” “ What did
you call it a tri-weekly paper for ?” asks the inter-
locutor. “ Because we brought it out the first week,
and used to try and bring it out the second.” Not
bad, is it?
Life’s Changes.
USUAL MORAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Mid a sweet sequestered woodland
Youth and maiden made their tryste,
O’er their path the pallid moonbeams
Smiled approval as they kissed.
'Twas an evening in the Springtime,
And from rustling boughs above
Mating birds, in coy communion,
Sweetly chirped their lays of love.
With the lingering lovers’ footstep
They were walking side by side.
Speaking of the splendid future
When the maid might be a bride;
Dreaming of the days yet distant
When they twain should be as one:
Reeking not of ruthless butchei'S,
Nor of bakers’ bills to come.
She was of a healthful beauty,
Tint of rose was on her cheek;
He was “something in the city,”
Earning two-pouuds-flve a week;
She was born of humble parents,
Aged now, but strong and hale;
He, the hope of widowed mother
(At the present time in gaol).
Happy day of fleeting gladness,
Passed—Ah! never to return;
They had yet the cruel, char geful,
Countless cai-es of life to learn.
They were now but youth and maiden,
High their hearts with passion beat;
Later on, ther brains were bothered
Trying to “ make both ends meet.”
Time has cast his sombre shadows
O’er the light of former days—
(Those two lines, I can’t help thinking,
Form a nice poetic phrase):
Six long yeans had sped in sorrow,
Since, amid the woodland glade,
You were first, my gentle reader,
Introduced to youth and maid.
Several years have they been married—
They’ve a hungry brood to rear:
See her now, with faltering footstep,
Bringing home the “supper beer —
See him, sitting, stern and sullen,
Asking “ what there is to eat” ?
Those bright dreams of bygone momen
They were but a gilded cheat.
Hopeful youth, or blooming maiden,
Pause at tills prophetic page:
You, perchance, are choosing partners,
You are “ just about the age.”
Prythee. take a word of warning
(You will find it not amiss),
Put your passion in your pocket,
Live a li e of single bliss.
PHILOSOPHER.


Tlb-e ISellsutolo Bug'g'ies!
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOB GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
1 1
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'
COALCLIFF COAL.
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
1 “ THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming: Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
This new Coal, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner Are that any other. Tt neither has IheobjectkmablGsmoky flare and soot of
Newcaatle ooal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but It affords that domestic desideratum
of S kinds of English coal of heating an Iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a broeae or gas fire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT: WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
V
mi
s
Q
s
O
P
O
Q
C?
Os
O.E
1 ■■■
BROOK’S PATENT
SROOK S SIX-COKU V VERY CAREFULLY MADE J ramni
SOFT COTTON I * OB I GLACIl THREAD
ok I HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
NEW SHOTIDER REEL Black & all Colours NEW SHDUtDER REEL
iIBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 98 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBB & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal A genu :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON—Head : HONGKONG,
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and vertical Engine.-,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., <Sre.
Orossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester —The celebrated Otto Silent Gas Bngmes.
Bow, M‘Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., Acc.
Thos. Glover and Company, Lendon —Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sens—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrowedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco —Quicksilver.
Eels and Company, of Patras and Corfu —Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &e.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Bilston—Fire-resisting Safes.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux —Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.— -Scott and Mullaly, T. AJIsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— Nv. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hmcks.
**■ coMiiamon “
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
|0 LET from 5th November next, Term.
_ application to Thos. Setriqht. csr<f 0,1
Elvy and Co., 339 George-street, Sydney • 0 V? of
undersigned, ’ 1 the
JAMES B. HICK1E,
T
CRESWELL’S CHOICE SEEDS.
ON receipt of €1, the following collection .
NEW GARDEN SEEDS will be forw°® «
Free by return of post to any part of New tuS??
Wales ° utl >
1 ounce Beet (blood red), 1 do. Borecole
German Greens, 1 do. Brocoli, 3 ounces Pok 1
bage (early and late), 3 do. Carrot (2 varietw
1 ounce Celery, 1 do. Cauliflower. 1 do Or,
(curled), 1 do. Mustard (fine white),‘i^ 8
Lettuce, 1 do. Parsnip, 1 do. Parsley
curled), 3 ounces Onions (3 varieties), i I*
Turnip (3 varieties). 1 ounce Savoy, i
Spinach, 3 ounces Radish (long and turning 0 i
packets Melons (water and rock), I
Cucumber, 1 do. Pumpkin, 1 do. Tomato, idn
Vegetable Marrow. u '
One half of above collection, 10s, post free i»
packets of choice assorted Flower Seeds, sultah :
for present sowing, will be presented with each v?
post collection of Garden Seeds. Assortments nr
Seeds, containing Peas and Beans, lor transit h\.
coach, rail, or steamer, for small or large garden,
from 10s, £1, £3, and £3 3s each. Payments mario
by money order or, stamps. ”
C. F. CRESWELL, Seed and Plant Merchant.
474 George-street, Sydney.
Tattersa/I’s Monster Consultations.
MELBOURNE GUP of 1883.
10,000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
First Horse, £5000 ; Second Horse, £2000; Third
Horse, £1000. Starters, £1000; Non-starters
£1000 ; to bo divided amongst them.
MELBOURNE CUP of 1883.
2000 SUBSCRIBERS at £1 EACH.
First Horse, £1000 ; Second Horse, £300; Third
Horse, £300. Starters, £350 ; Non-starters, £350•
to be divided amongst them.
Persons making application are requested to
register their Letters to ensure safe delivery of
same, and enclose addressed stamped envelope for
reply.
Address—“ TATTERS ALL,” care of G. Adams,
Tattersall’s Hotel, Sydney.
I
Skish BAllil
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx
XX XX
XX XrORDERN BROTHERS, XX
XX JjL 311, PITT-STRBET, XX
wish to direct your particular attention XX
to the following new XX
Ex Rosetta. arrival. Ex Rosetta. XX
XI
NEW SHAPES IN BONNETS & HATS. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX The Empress, Queen, Marchioness, Conn- XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
tess, New Duchess, Pembroke, XX
Ripple, Jasmine, Brighton, Wilden, XX
Alexandria. Gilliard, Ateka, Rosa- XX
lind, Carlingford, lolanthe, New XX
Wheeler, Violet &c., &c.
In Plain and Mixed Coloured Straw.
NEW FRUIT SPRAYS & WREATHS.
Cherries, Grapes, Apricots, Straw-
berries, Currants, Apples, Rasp-
berries, Acorns, Ac., &c.
NEW FLOWERS,
SPRAYS,
and
WREATHS
in
Terra Cotta, Crushed Strawberry, and XX
Dried Rose.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Lilies, Marguerites, Chrysanthemums,
XX Carnations, Poppies, Sunflowers, Pan- XX
XX sies, Tonquil, snowdrops, Forget-me- XX
XX nots. Passion Flowers, Geraniums, XX
XX Violets, Jasmine, Wallflowers, Holli- XX
XX ander, Daises, Holly, Ivy, Hawthorn, XX
XX Clematis, Acacia, , . aa
XX Combination Wreaths for Hair and XX
XX Dress, Silver, Mourning and Half XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Mourning Flowers and Wreaths.
TRIMMED HATS,
in the newest styles, 7s Ud to 31fi.
TRIMMED BONNETS. j
Ex Rosetta. ditto ditto, 10s 6d
45s. Ex Rosetta.
to
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
In the above we have mentioned XX
XX a very few of the thousand and one aa
XX items. We can serve you with all you aa
XX want that a general draper ought to a a
keep. ix
XX Manchester goods. Dress Stuffs, Silks, XX
XX Crapes, Satins, Velvets, Hosiery, Gloves, aa
XX Laces, Haberdashery, Mantles, Carpets, aa
XX Blankets, Bedsteads, Oilcloths, Millinery aa
Parachutes, Scents, Soaps, Wools, and
Ribbons.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
ANYTHING and EVERYTHING
SEE OUR GRAND DISPLAY
of
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
ALL SORTS OF GOODS, ££
sot.tn. fashionable Ex Rosetta aa
Ex Rosetta, fashionable
and good, and with a reason-
able price, . v
IN OUR WINDOWS TO-DAY
Only Address—
HORDERN BROTHERS.
209, 311, PITT-STREBa
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
xx
xx
xx
Right in the Centre of all the Drapers.
TH I 8 D A r - xl
THIS DAY.
HORDERNS’ in PITT-STRBET
invite your attention to
the Spring desirable Fashions
shown in their WINDOWS.
We sell everything that it is poss
to think of
in the Drapery, Siia. Carpet,
Millinery, Clothing, and Milimery
Trades.
XX
XX
xx
XX
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx
xx %
THEATRE ROYAL-Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & MtrsoROva.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8, „
BLAND HOLT’S TRULY GIGANTIC
DRAMATIC COMBINATION,
In the Poetic and Sensational London Drama,
written by Henry Pettitt, Esq., entitled
TAKEN FROM LIFE.
Prices as usual. Box office open from 11 till 4..
Cr
AIBTY THEATRE
Lessee and Manager. .Herb Bandmann.
TO-NIGHT. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13,
By universal desire, and for positively the last
time during the season, the marvellous success,
THE WOMAN OF THE PEOPLE.
Herr Bandmann as Remy, Louise Baudet as Marie.
TO-MORROW, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 14,
LOUISE BBAUDET in her great Impersonation of
LEAH, THE FORSAKEN.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15,
Grand revival of THE COLLEEN BAWN.
Box Offlee at Paling’s and Gaiety Theatre, where
seats can be boohed daily.
Admission —Orchestra Chairs (reserved), at
Paling’s, 4* : Stalls, 3s; Circle, Family Circle, 3s :
ENLARGED PIT, Is.
HALL.
nvr a s o n i c
if J- York-strebt.
Lessee and Manager Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
aud SPECIALITY UNION.
EVERY EVENING at EIGHT.
The Best Comedians ever seen on any stage. The
Best Specialists ever under one Management.
The Best Instrumentalists ever organised with a
Minstrel Show. Mr. CHARLES HEY WOOD,
Male Soprano, Burlesque Prima Donna and Bird
Charmer. Admission, 4s. 3s, 3s, Is. Doors open
7, overture at 8. Carriages at 10.30. Box Plan at
Paling’s Music Warehouse. George-street.
C. A. MADDIUK, Secretary.
N
IMROD FISHING CLUB.
The ANNUAL PICNIC of the CLUB
will be held at
CLONTARF, on WEDNESDAY, 19th Sep., 1888,
under the patronage of ____
HIS WORSHIP THE MAYOR, JOHN HARRIS,
Esq., M.L.A.
and the following officers and Members
of the Club
JOHN STARKEY, Esq., President, Phllllp-st.
GKO. R. EASTWAY, Esq., Vice President, Kmg-st.
A. HUENENBEIN, Esq., George-street.
W. TAYLOR, Esq., Paddington
W. SH ARMAN. Esq., Llverpool-street.
W. J. CLARKE, Esq., Woollahra
Committee :
Chas. Saunders, Esq., Pyrmont
G. L. Goodman, Esq.. Theatre Royal
Gus. Buckham, Esq , Circular Quay
J. Clamp, Esq., George-stroec
E. Rogers, Esq., Newtown
C. Saunders, Esq., Haymarket
E. Bennett, Esq-, Wavorley
E. A. Dunrich, Esq., Wavorley
J. Judd, Esq., Paddington
R. vvood, Esq., George-street South
E. Lowther. Esq., J.P., Woollahra
H. W. Little, Esq., Market-street
J. Cordlngloy, Esq., Woollahra
J. H. Seamer, Esq., Bathurst-street
H. E. Shorter, Esq.. Pitt-street
T. Caswell, Esq., Woollahra
John Craig, Esq., Kent-street
W. Walpole, Esq., George-street North
Chas. Boots, Esq., Mayor. Newtown
W. Trengrouse. Esq., Stanmore
W. Williams, Esq., Market-street
J. Hart, Esq., J.P.. Waverley
R. Heness, Esq., Woollahra
G. George, Esq., Hunter-street
John Edgley, Esq., Petersham
Thos. Layton, Esq., Macquarie-street
A. Turner, Esq., King-street
B. H.Daniells, Esq., Queen-street
M. Bayfield, Esq., Paddington
S. Sharman, Esq., Liverpool-street
W. Slough, Esq., King-street
from which tickets may be obtained.
Also from
City Catering Co., George-street; Lassetter and
Co., George-street; Eastway Brothers, George-
street ; E. R. Cole, King and George streets ; Jas.
Kelliok, King-street; B. Cantor, King-street: J.
Noake, 330, George-street; W. Humphries, New-
town : B. Mountcastle, George-street.
Tickets-Gentlemen, 31s ; Ladles, 13s 6d ; Chil-
dren, 5s.
THE VOUNG AUSTRALIAN BAND
is engaged.
Caterers—The CITY CATERING COMPANY.
The New Pavilion will be opened for the first time.
ONLY A LIMITED NUMBER OF TICKETS
WILL BE ISSUED.
G. R. EASTWAY, jun., Hon. Secretary
WILLIAM J. CLARKE. Hon. Treasurer.
Grand plain and fancy dress ball.
In connection with
LODGE WOOLLOOMOOLOO, No. 4,
and
LODGE DORIC, No. 36,
ANCIENT FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS.
Under the distinguished patronage of the Most
Worshipful the Grand Master,
The Hon. JAMES SQUIRE PARNELL, M.P.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
TUESDAY, 18th SEPTEMBER, 1888.
Tickets are now obtainable at most of the prin-
cipal business establishments in town.
Gentlemen, 15s.; Ladies, 10s.
R. P. NEGUS, P.M., Secretary.
TO PROFESSIONAL TROUPES.
■\] OW open for engagement at NYNGEN, near
i3l Railway Station, the
« ASSEMBLY ROOMS,”
a large and well-appointed HA' Apply to
HEARD & M‘KKNN 4., Agents.
ICT0RIA HALL
Bottrke Street, Melbourne.
Lessee
Mr. F. B. Hiscocks.
The most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
lace of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
)T any first-class entertainments. The Lessee open
> Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Ofiioe, Melbourne.
CHOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
ZULU WAR.
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to 81st.
Bundaberg, Maryborough, and Gympie.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN WAR!
W. H. THOMPSON. Proprietor.
8YL. RYAN, Agent.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
»trB EOTAL—“ Taken from Life.” p.10.
House-" An Arabian Nijfht” ib.
npB theatre —“ Woman of the People”.. ib.
G /ln*rr HAim.-Fedoral Minstrels ib.
Academy OF Muaic ._Millis’s Entertainment ib.
WHY.
ifnj* cheeks were redder than a rose,
Her eyes as diamonds bright;
Her pretty lips did pearls disclose
Whene’er she smiled that night.
■Twas at the play, and all were gay—
The play was fnil of fun;
And yet, somehow, she looked distrait.
Though reason seemed there none.
This was the reason, readers fair.
Of this sweet girl’s distress:
She was the only lady there
Who wore a low-necked dress.
* * * *
Herr Banclmann badly wanted to act,
he withdrew a certainty In “The Woman
8 # the People” for an uncertainty in “Rip.”
result, is not altogether encouraging. Louise
iioniidet. was giving us her marvellous imperson-
« n of Marie, and you felt so warm in that
latre that you took off your light overcoat, and
I’upd the usher to steal you a fan. Now, when
.1 iro in you rob your neighbour of his hand-
J°“h e f and bind it round your neck to guard
from the mumps. During one of the inter-
we went round to the boy at the door, and
ISlilpsted the loan of a small piece of carpet to be
Hppentlv laid out on: but Mr. Harwood, who hap-
»npd to be in the theatre, proffered his glove, so
wecurled up in the thumb of it till the curtain
rose. • • •
The Bishop of Manchester said “Rip Van
winkle ” was as good as a sermon. Wo don’t
peiallv endorse this, but the above statement
8 nnpars' m Bandmann’s “ad.” And, while care-
Iv withholding ourselves from guaranteeing
Ihp authenticity of the quotation, we unhesita-
fimrlv uphold the truth of the sentiment embodied
P >* nip Van Winkle ” is as good as a sermon !
it is not better than a sermon ; but it is as good.
*< rid ” like the “ Woman of the People,” is a one-
piece. an( j this time the one part is taken pos-
ition of by Mr. Bandmann. Well. Mr. Bandmann
w formed a conception of Washington Irving’s
hp,-o which is quite his own, and those who ex-
acted a bald imitation of Joe Jefferson reckoned
without their host. For Herr Bandmann is a host
-in himself.
* * *
Miss Beaudet has little to do; but she
sinus in a manner which is singularly charming.
\nd in German. It was very pretty all through;
but what we admired most in the ballad was this
couplet;—
“ Gahen sic inier di varne vasser deren
Shpiel cum prof un niche rade barren.”
she looked—as she always does—<)>i nc pevt minir
“ an( j the people liked her singing very much. The
Hist night she was vociferously encored, and (now
Mired) in response to the recall, she warbled a
pathetic ballad which melted our hearts.
• • •
The piece is beautifully mounted, liberally
staged, and acted all round with great ability.
• • • *
“Taken from Life.” at the Royal, is a
melodrama by Mr. Pettit—or, as the hi Is have It,
' Henry Pettit, Ksq.,” who, foreseeing the coming
reaction in the public taste, so far as melodrama is
concerned, has wisely iniused into his work a
•ittle dainty comedy writing; a little; hut, be
it said, not nearly enough. The plot of iho piece
flenls with the (’lerkenwell explosion, and the
general action la bosh of a picturesque order. The
cast is both numerically ami actually strong, in-
cluding, as it does, Dampior, Garden, Bland Holt.
H N. Jones, St, Lawrence, Annie Mayor, Marston
heigh, and Annie Taylor Mr. D-’.mpier plays
a sentimental artist who Is in debt to the milkman.
There Is nothing In the part at all; and this being
the case, it will surprise nobody that Dumpier got
nothing nut of it. Alfred is a clever boy when he
has a chance, but he has none here. Consequently,
he is a hit of a bore. But wo can forgive Dim
being a bit of a bore, because we like him. If we
didn't like him, wo should probably kill him.
* * *
Mr. .Tames Carden, as William Maguire, a
dynamite man, was effective: and he was the more
effective because he looked less like James Carden,
Rsq than ever we remember seeing him before.
There was no black moustache bristling with
villainy, n n pointed dagger, and no haughty sneer.
Then, 'behind a Hibern an heard, he suited (new,
ihl=!) the action to the word and the word to t he
action, and succeeded In getting himself disliked
by the gallery and execrated by t ho pit long before
the hand of the dial was on the tick (dear Mer-
cutioDof nine. Herbert Flemming (“sogrieved !")
was capital as Philip Dudley; but Mr. Jerdan, as a
prison warder, came near to sending us home for
our little hammer. Miss Annie Mayor, who was
supposed to play “a bright-eyed English lass,” was
all right so far as the eyes, and, indeed, the ankles,
were concerned, mats voUA tout. She appeared
to be thinking of something else all the time.
Perhaps she was thinking where she had
left her slipper. The emotional drama suits
Miss Mayor. Remember her* in Diplomacy.
Ah ! Mr. St. Laurence enacted the part of
Mr. St. Laurence with much effect as Bob
Channel), and Miss Annie Taylor was satisfac-
tory (and stout) as a soubrette. Mr. Charles Brown
was very excellent indeed as a country gentleman
in top boots and cords —so excellent indeed that he
may be said to be one of the successes of the piece.
It might, however, suggest itself to him (this is not
for publication, but as a guarantee of good faith),
in future performances, to infuse less of the
“lump id” clement into his get-up.
* * *
The two who really got the people were
Miss Marston Leigh and Mr. Bland Holt, lloth
were of (yes, Dr. Nield)—of “surpassing excel-
lence.” The scenery was of a moderately high
order; and the horse displayed a friskiness which,
if not born of blood, must bo derived from ginger.
• 0 •
Bill Seagrave is managing for Bland, and
very well he does it. He is lovelier than ho was;
ai.d there was room tor it.
* * * *
We were at the Masonic Hall yet again on
Saturday night last. We never saw such a crowd;
don’t believe more could be got into a room unless
wo called a meeting of our creditors. Tho front
seats were one glitter of vulcanite-plate teeth and
jewellery. All tho sporting talent were there—
men whom we have known and who have not
trusted us for years. There was, in fact, such a
crowd of old familiar faces in the hall that we
began to think for a moment that we were dead
aud had gone to our reward. But a sight of
Barney Thompson reassured us. It could not be
Heaven.
* * *
The most conspieuous thing about the
Minstrels—tho feature that strikes one immedi-
ately the curtain rises—is the snowy spotlessness
ot their linen. It was a surprise to us, after being
accustomed to the old Victorieralers, with their
cloudy cuffs and mottled collars and wrinkled
shirt-fronts dotted with bone studs of funereal
black or of delusive yellow. And yet, though their
garb was not gorgeous or their linen like the lilies,
yet we have a tender recollection of these erratic
smgers. We were not as rich in those times, as
we are now, but wo were happier because we had
simpler tastes ami it took 1g*s to please us. A
threepenny drinkthen was as adraught of Helicon
*<• ns. Now we are hypochondriac on hock and
cynical on champagne. And to think that, in the
om innocent days, we thought wc were unhappy,
■“tii tea beaux jours quand j etaAs si malheurcux!
The first part of the entertainment con-
sists of songs, comic and sentimental, sung by
Braham, Bent. Lawless, Amory, and the rest. We
don't know if we ever mentioned it before, but
wc have an idea that every Minstrel company has
a superstitious reverence for certain aged ditties,
from which the bloom and sparkle has long de-
parted, but which have become fossilised by long
custom into a kind of ritual which it would be
ruin to neglect. So, in the programme of this
company’s entertainment, we were not surprised
to notice songs that were nearly ns old as some of
the new and original jokes Mr. Horace Bent
makes in his lecture. Poor old palsied sur-
vivors of pre-Adamite wit, these jokes are,
by the way. Wo remember beieg taken when
we were young to a cemetery to look at the grave
of a man who had been torn to pieces by an infu-
riated populace for making the newest of these
jokes and calling it his own. But nothing is a
warning to some people. Vet what If the songs
and gags are not all new, they are well sung and
said, and even we. who have been familiar with
most of them from the time when we could first
tell a lie, had to laugh. And when wo laugh the
Government meteorologist thinks there has been
an earthquake, and confuses all the calculations of
the scientists of the world. Funny! We desire to
see nothing funnier than some things in this show
—not yet, at any rate. When wc do, we shall let
Mr. Hiscocks know.
• • *
We are glad to see that our old friends,
Kennedy and M'Carthy. are in the ompany. We
are glad because we now know that there Is no
foundation for the rumour that they had turned
local preachers. And Harry Emmett, too!—how
was ho in it as interlocutor ! How did ho pro-
nounce every letter and roll every “r ” In his sen-
tences ? But you should hear him. And you
should also hear Braham and Lawless and Atnery
singing sentimental ballads. It is really as
good as courting in a church. Alf Lawton, too,
is very amusing— especially when there is not too
much of him. But the most novel and charming
feature of the entertainment is the pigeon-act of
Mr. Charles Hcywood. One after one ho calls the
birds out from a little dove-cot in the side-scene,
and they light upon his shouldei s and head. Then
he throws them out one by one among the audi-
ence, and they circle round the hall, and one by
one x - etum and settle down again like a cloud upon
him. You must remember he is a she all the time.
Mr. Charles Hey wood is a male soprano, and a very
tine male soprano, though we can see no more
beauty in that than in a woman with a beard. Our
private taste, though, has nothing to do with our
criticism of a fact as a fact. As a fact, then, the
performance of Mr. Hoywood is very clever and
exceedingly curious. And though he professes to
burlesque some of the operatic selections that are
given, we have seen several prime dnnne who sung
m very serious earnest, and yet did not sing so
very much better.
* * * *
The Polks are back again among us. A
sip of the Pierian spring, a prelude upon the grid-
iron, and we can begin. Hearken !—
When we write of tragedy.
Very comic, then, are we;
Comedy we criticise.
And the tears stand la your eyes.
This was how it used to be
When we went to comedy:
We would take, to gag our grief,
Sheet-sized pocket-handkerchief.
And, for tragedy, we dressed
Iron hoops around our chest,
Lest p’rhaps, in our laughter-fits,
We should shake ourselves to bits.
Strange to say, a change begins.
And transposed are grief and grins;
For, on Monday night, you see,
We just yelled at comedy.
And no wonder. “An Arabian Night” is the
maddest, merriest, fastest, and funniest comedy
we have ever seen. It is a lightning panorama of
ludicrous situations! a tire work of rapid fun. Lot
us see now, if wo can describe the almost inde-
scribable.
• • *
Alexander Spinkle—Mr. Polk, and the
drollest phase of Mr. Polk we have yet seen-is a
retired broker. Ho ia married: he has a mother-in-
Jaw. His wife is away on a visit. The curtain
rises on a conversation between himself and his
uncle—Mr. Robert A. Vernon, and very crutchy in
speech and carriage. Mr. Spinkle istalking about
his life before his marriage; how he was romantic,
how he used to go about seeking adventures like
the Caliph of the Arabian Nights, how he met
one day a gentle and innocent and likewise unpro-
tected girl at a railway station, and how he
paid her fare for her, and how she was
grateful ever after—in fact, so grateful that
he couldn’t get rid of her. Also, that
she was there in the town, and might And
out where ho lived, and call upon him at any
moment. Then what a deuce of a complication
there would be if his mother-in-law should see her.
She did not know his real name; he had told her to
call him Haroun al Raschid. What was this gentle,
innocent, unprotected girl ? Well, she was a bare-
back rider in a circus; but pure as the snow upon
the meeountain. The uncle goes. A letter is
handed to Spinklo, intimating that his niece from
France will arrive that day. He has hardly read it
when his mother-in-law sails in like aline-of-battlc
ship, with all her guns run out ready for action.
There is a row, of course. It is compromised by
the son-in-law promising to go shopping with her.
Then a relative, Lafayette Moodle, a society fop.
played by Mr. George Forbes to perfection, saunters
in, and helps to prepare confusion for Spinkle
The mother-in-law goes to her room to dress.
Lafayette goes out, and the gentle protegi, the
bareback rider, the Wild Ruse of Yucatan, galops
in. She has found her preserver at last. He tries
to explain to her that she must leave sooner than
lightning, or his mother-in-law will come in and
raise everlasting brimstone. The Wild Rose
doesn’t see it, so ho has to rush her into aside
room, lock the door on her, and straighten his
face into an unconcerned look just as the old lady
storms in the second time. We forget how things
go just at this part, because the notes we made got
mixed up with summonses in our pocket, but we
know that the Wild Rose gets out of the room
somehow, and is hunting under the table for her
umbrella, assisted by Mr. Spinkle, when the omni-
potent mothor-in-law surprises them. The look
that Mr. Polk puts on at this juncture cannot be
safely witnessed with the naked eye. Our nerves
aro pretty seasoned, yet we had to turn round and
claw the back of our chair in a delirium of
laughter. And wo may as well seize this oppor-
tunity of saying that the look of horror on his
face at every fresh contretemps is as droll as the
grin of a grave-digger when ho turns out with his
spado the bones of a dead geobung. He get out of
his difficulty this time in the good old way. He
lies. He presents the Wild Rose to his mother-in-
law as his niece from Franco. His mother-in-law
is delighted, thinks her so unconventional, so free
from society airs. Which she is. .she drinks
i most of a decanter of wine before the servant can
smuggle it out of sight. The mother-in-law In-
stantly makes a match for this charming creature
| with Lafayette. The charming creature has kept
j up the delusion and goes on serenely, lying about
I the immense fortune of her pa over m France until
1 she paralyses the mother-in-law with admiration
j aud Spinkle with fury. Wo shall get mixed if we
j don’t settle the hash of Lafayette at once. He
i falls in love with the supposed fortune, aud the
mother-in-law arranges an elopement for them.
I But this is in the Jast act.
• • •
In the meantime the real niece arrives.
| Mr. Spinkle is agonised. He sends the neice to a
I hoarding-house over the way, and Is discovered
[ kissing his hand to her by the mother-in-law
shortly after. More storm and more stony horror,
j Herbert Rembrandt, an artist, happens to be stay-
! tag in the place across the way. He and the real
j niece fall in love. Then Hercules Sermlth, the
j cannon-ball performer, of the World Circus, comes
i onthescene. He is looking for the Wild Rose. At
i the end of the third act there is a splendid travesty
on the circus business that brings the house down.
| We are sorry to have to take this phrase from our
contemporaries, but we are In a hurry just now,
and haven't time to hunt for novel metaphors.
I Mrs Spinklearrrives, and, of course, confusion is
worse confounded, And teen the Wild Rose elopes
with Lafayette. Hercules Sermith hears of it, and
! thinks she has gone off with a rival circus-agent.
• Ho goes after them, and reasons with Lafayette,
i who returns on crutches, and bandaged and stiek-
ing-plastered out of recognition. The end is happy
| for all but him. The ruay is a scream from begxn-
I nlugtocnd; we believe wo never laughed so much
) at anything in our life, except once when we
dreamt of John Lucas riding on a bicycle. ‘ An
Arabian Night ” is such a big business that Genese
is generally jubilant. This “go” of their first
piece gives a (we’re leading up to it) forecast of a
big season. Genese is to go on ahead, so we hear;
however, wo pray and trust that it will be long
before we see this Exodus of Genese's. Ami
now let us launch into an account of the acting——
[You can launch into this next week. We want
space, and we want you to attend an’,inquest now,
—Ed. B.] [Bloated tyranny I—Critic B.j
Like the wind among the trees,
Like the hum of summer bees..
Like the perfume-laden breeze
Kissing isles in tropic seas,
Bearing odours sweet as these
Met in dower-bedecked lees,
I,ike—imagine what you please—
Is the voice of Alice Rees.
There! But she loves another, and alcohol and
skittles alone remain to solace us. Yet, the number
of empty but “selected” seats was depressing.
The “encore” fiend was in fine form and insatiable.
In the gallery over our heads one imbecile worked
a pile-driver with an elastic band after each num-
ber. It never occurs to these greedy things that,
after the “Shadow song” with its trills, shakes,
and chromatics, a soprano might possibly—we, of
course, only say possibly—like a pot of porter and
a rest. Kettcn could fill the nail by himself.
Vogrich - cm w - Rees-cum-Kret schmann-cum-Patek
did not half fill it. Wo have heard Tbalberg,
Billow, Goddard, and Ketteu. We pine for some
virtuoso to come to the front and tell us wherein
Vogrich’s touch, execution, rendering, or dash is
inferior to theirs. The fact is, someone has blun-
dered. The thing hasn’t been properly worked up.
By the time these concerts come to an end, the
public will awake to a sense of their excellence.
Just give us the “ engineering” of the alfair and a
fortnight’s start. Then give us a hall as big as the
Cohsseum, and wo will pay a ten-pound tine for
every vacant seat. But we must choose our own
programme. You might read that programme up
and down, sideways, endways and always. You
might “ focus ” it under the “ double-million-mag-
nifying - microscope - of - hextra - power ” pos-
sessed by the late Mr. Samuel Weller from now till
the Prussians marched again under the “ Arc de
Triomphe” (we are open to bet that in the next
"shindy” the French will get nearer to Berlin
than the Germans to Paris), but you would not
discover Schubert’s grand trio in E lor violin,
violincello, and piano. Why are works like this
produced before any but musicians, or at least
audiences like those to be found in small German
towns, where the children, when not at the breast,
are composing fugues ? To an average antipodean
audience, they are a mere anarchy ot sounds, pre-
sided over by the Lord of Misr. le. Then the
“Neapolitan Tarantella.” As an example of exe-
cutive gymnastics, it was unique. It showed us
what we already knew—the complete mastery the
“ Herr” bad over his instrument. But, while lis-
tening to it, there kept running through our mind
the French olficer's remark as he saw the Light
Cavalry sweep superbly into Balaclava, overturn-
ing everything in their way till, torn with grape,
they broke aimlessly against the compact, grey-
coated Infantry beyonu, and we found ourselves
repeating “Cost magnillque, e’est mngnitique,
mais ce n’est pas la muslque.” These hints are
suggested by good nature alone. On the occasion
ot the next Vogrich concert, wo hope to seethe
nouse packed like the mouths ot Rand wick orphans
at a picnic.
Herr Bandmann.
Heuewith wc give a very effective sketch of
Herr Baudmaun, the popular actor, in ins great
impersonation of the title role in “Rip Van
Winkle,” recently produced at the Gaiety
Theatre. In tins mature of his extensive reper-
toire, Herr Bandmann rustalned the reputation t.e
won in the tlrst theatres of the wot Id asa capable
and scholarly actor, Herr Bandtnanu's career is
embodied in the history of the stage of the lait
quaiter of a century. From the English edition
ot “Men of the Time,” wo glean the following.
Herr Bandmann was born at Cussol, Germany, m
JWJ, and exhibited at a very early age, while at
college, a great aptitude for histrionic studies. At
eighteen, he made his first appearance on the
stage at the Court Theatr. , Netislreliiz, when ho
became u favourite of the Duchess of Mecklen-
burg. who took a personal interest in him and in
his professional studies. Prague, Weimar, I’csth,
Vicuna, &c., wore in turn visited by Herr Band-
maim, ,md everywhere he uchiet cd genuine stn-
ecss. Failing health induced him to visit tho
Ktat.es, aud while in Now York he appeared at the
Stadt Theatre, at the tequest of his countrymen,
and his ubilt ies won him at once (lie uuiveisal en-
comiums of tho critical press of that city. Heir
Bandmann now siudieu the English language, ami
made his appearance in Khyloek at INUdo’s
Gardens—being the commencement ol u
brilliant career of live yeais’ duration on ihe
American stage. His repertoire embraced Nar-
cisse (truns died into English), Hamle', Shylock,
Macbeth, Klebv.rd Hie Third, Othello, luge, Bei e-
diok, Richelieu, &c He achieved agreat triumph
in Hamlet in Philadelphia at the bhukspeaieau
tcrcentarv, and was presented with a crown of
laurel in‘silver, in Feb., 18««, Herr Bandmann
tlrst made his appearance beiore an English audi-
ence—at the Lyceum, in Narcisse—and hlssmctsa
was such that Lord Lytton, who was present, pub-
licly stated that Baudmaun was the only actor no
had seen since the days of Macready, who inspired
him to w riie again for the stage. In HerrBatid-
mann came to Australia, where he was successful,
and returning to Europe, again toured through
England and Germany, and afterwards proceeded
to the States. Again at the Antipodes, Herr Banc -
maim travelled through Australia, Now Zealand,
and Tasmania, where he coined money. Another
tour through India, China, and the Straits fol-
lowed. During his Eastern tour, Herr Bandmann
was received, with the greatest enthusiasm—so
much so, that he engaged an English company,
which was sent out to him by his wife from Eng-
land, and with them ho revisited all His former
towns. This company accompanied him to this his
third tour through Australasia. In San 1 runclsco
he engaged Miss Louise Beauclot, who has accom-
panied him during the last four years, and whom
ho considers a perfect genius. [The lovers of tho
Shakspeariau drama may expect a short season at
the Gaiety next week.]
Burns, thefour-times-tried mate-murderer,
Is to be hanged.
They are trying to fix up a £500 sculling
match between Layeoek aud Hearn, of Wellington,
N.Z.— the Shark Islander to be allowed £50 ex-
penses to Wellington.
Mr. Frank Bennett, of the Evening News
and Town and Country proprietary, leaves tor
England on Saturday.
Last Saturday afternoon, at the Invitation
of Mr. J. Henniker Heaton, a number of city
pressmen, with a few scientific and political
friends, had an enjoyable picnic at the picturesque
grounds of Mr. Jeannerot, on the Parramatta
River. A steam launch conveyed the picnicing
party on a couple of hours’ exploration of the
charming bays and inlets of the historic stream,
and, with whetted appetites, the party were landed
at the picnic grounds, where a first-class luncheon,
provided by the City Catering Company, was in
readiness for being discussed. The extraordinary
oarnestuess of the city Press was never better
illustrated In th<-' hour s silence that followed the
saying of “grace,” which was offered by some
strange person representing the Hour Howl.
Mr Heaton presided, and did the honours in his
old" manner. Henniker was, of course, In his
element. (Many of the working men of the Press
were around him. The toast of “ The Press ” was
proposed and drunk in hilarious style, with cheers
that awakened the echoes of the century-silent
valley alongside. Nearly every pressman present
had a “go in” at specifying, and the speeches
were unique. The health of Mr. Heaton was pro-
posed In complimentary terms by Mr. Charles
Cowpcr, and Henniker responded in an eloquent
stylo. A return picnic is projected.
HERR BANDMANN IN HIS GREAT IMPERSONATION OF “RIP VAN WINKLE.’


Many people, just now, are exercising
their minds upon the subject of earthquakes.
The question is, “ Would a hig h-claas earthquake
do good for trade in Australia? We think it
would—it must “ wake things upmoreover, if it
could only be prevailed upon to locate itself,
from time to time, in certain places—say Council
meetings, for instance—commerce and the human
race would derive a mutual benefit.
BRIEF MENTION.
“ Gumming it” strong.—3000 guineas for a
ram.
The main supports of the modern stage —
Legs.
“French” polishers: Hong How and Co.,
Lower George-street.
Shipping.—Exports: 256 dead Chinamen.
Imports.—To arrive, 1 dead ecclesiastic.
The motto of a Moss Yale paper is: “No
man is wise at all times.” Judging from the con-
tents of the Mossr Muddle, we are inclined to
think some men are never wise at any time.
Sporting announcement: “Will holder of
sweep so-and-so, please forward same to winner,
J.P.O., Post Office, &o.” The only proper holder of
a sweep that we know of would be a policeman.
Barker Hall would be a uniquely pertinent
appellation for a building dedicated to Synod pur-
poses, since it would symbolise the yelping cla-
mour which is the Inevitable outcome of theo-
logical and ecclesiastical discussion.
The “Gipsy” who does the aquatic busi-
ness for the Queen newspaper, stated In her re-
port of the Henley regatta that “the river was
flooded with boats.’ 1 * Alfred’s “ Gipsy ” (bless her!)
would have had it, “ The water was limpid with
rocks.” Ah, these girls I
A gintleman, lately elevated to the Binch
up North, refused to take his letters from the Post
Office, because they were not addressed J.P., and
further informed the Postmaster that if J.P.
wasn’t on them it was his duty to put it there, and,
begorra, he’d “ reporrt ” him If he didn’t!
Postmaster Triokett notifies that hence-
forth Hulong is to bear the name of Whitton. It
would certainly be hard to tell which is the more
hideous name. We suggest a compromise; use
both in a compound form, with a euphonic “ g,
thus—Whittonghulong—nothing could be more-
aboriginal.
The latest. Scene: Maoquarie-street
Time: 1 a.m. 1st foot-passenger (very drunk, to
second F.P., who is going homeward):— Hi I
stophl” (hie) “Wash a eabsh.” (After a pause)
“Don’tyerknowmeolelier?” 2nd F.P. (politely):
“ Can’t say I do know you by this light, sir. What
—er—what constituency do you represent ? ”
It is with regret we learn that a cer-
tain politician cannot walk without two sticks
This being the case, we trust next Sunday
Mr. Jefferies will offer up a special prayer that
the gentleman may shortly be enabled to walk with
at most only one stick. It don't do, you know, to
ask for too much at once. It might look greedy.
“ Lady help for the country, to assist with
everything; must be fond of children; a small
family; most comfortable home; references in-
dispensable. L.B., Herald Office.” We know this
family—lodged with it once. It is a clergyman’s.
It is small, but numerous. About the end of every
September a boy and girl are added to it.
What a proud old lot the Catholic corpses
in the Wagga cemetery must be by this time. The
parish priest is going to have their residence re-
fenced. And every person in his congregation
who has relatives interred there will be asked to
give a subscription. Probably this is the first time
that the members of that congregation have been
sincerely sorry that they gave their friends Chris-
tian burial.
A PROBLEM.
[For J. M’Elhone, Esq., M.P.]
Old Nick is blackest black, ’tis said;
But, if in fiery throes,
Why, surely he should be as red
As a “ dyspeptic ” nose!
Or—the alternative to meet—
' Should he not be at a “ white heat ?”
j It is suggested that H.E. the Governor
t should sit on the Supreme Court Solons by grant-
t ing an unconditional pardon to the Herald pro-
, pnetors and refusing to accept their £250 fine.
1 But we scarcely think His Excellency can at the
j present time afford to do it. Eggs are only I0d. a
dozen now.
When a large number of employees in
Austria struck work lately, owing to a grievance,
we are told that “they encamped in a neighbour-
ing wood.” Our strikists know better than that.
They frequently camp in the adjoining pub.
bars.
The house of the Rev Fathers Carey and
Neilan, at Elsternwick, was burglared the other
morning. The thieves cleared with two studs
valued £10, and £3 in money. No, we are not
going to start a comparison between the victims
and the apostles. We keep these comparisons for
thousand pounders. A stud a piece was not much
for the Fathers, and £110s is only a week’s board
at the Bull and Mouth. Go in peace, Fathers.
The Cargo correspondent of a metropolitan
paper naively states that though there is no doctor
in the locality, they have a smithy there, ‘ who
combines dentistry, undertaking, &c., &c., with his
general blacksmithing. The knowledge he pos-
sesses comes in very handy in the absence of medi-
cal skill.” That smithy has got hold of the right
end of the stick at last, sfinith, denlist, doctor,
undertaker, all in one! He holds the four Aces of
Fortune, and the Lake Macquarie dodge isn’t even
“ placed ” in the race with him.
A rural scribe, gushing in a Sydney journal
over the decease of a local great man, innocently
wails—
“ Oh yet we trust that, somehow,
Good will be the final goal of ill.”
Now, isn’t this very rough on the gentleman who
had just “ passed in his checks ?”
The Rev. S. Robinson says he has a
galaxy of superfluous ladies at St. Kilda, who
really suffocate him with their enthusiastic
efforts in church work. His reverence looks
like it. The amount of Pestachlo-nut Oil he
carries about in his locks would lubricate the new
express. A Sandridge divine, however, offers to
take “a quantity” off his hands, but stipulates
that he is to have a voice in the selection. The
transfer is under way. “Fats” are moderately
brisk, and “maidens” lively; but there is no inquiry
for “ageds.”
Dignity is a grahd thing. John Smith has
it. It costs him £5 a week to keen it. When he
gives it a spurt, it costs him more. Then he doesn t
pay somebody. There is what he calls the social
level, and he can't go below that. What about
my account?” cried the grocer lately. Dem
your account I” said John. Then the grocer
dragged him up to Court before the eyes of Mel-
bourne, and then the Bench said: “John,_ you
must pay a pound a week.” And maintain my
dignity on four ?” asked John; impossible! Ill
tell you what I’ll do-I'll pay off this grocer at
thirteen shillings a week.” No, said the Bench,
“ you must go the pound, John; you must go the
pound.” John reflected a minute, and sorrowfully
acquiesced. Going out of the Court, however,
he soliloquised: “ That means that I must get into
the butcher and baker straight. S help me! Its
the only way."
“ Wanted for Queensland, a kind, domes-
ticated and fairly educated Woman, p, Baptist or
Disciple preferred, to assist a mother of occasion-
ally inebriate habits, in the performance of her
moral and domestic duties.” The italics are ours.
The advertisement itself can be seen in a Queens-
land paper. Good times are coming for the in-
mates of Blloela—a future is opening before them.
From participating in the immoralities of men,
they can be engaged to assist in raising the moral
standard of “mothers” occasionally sober. The
“Baptist or Disciple” proviso is the real drawback.
Stay; there is another. Is it not upon the cards
that, when the “ Baptist or Disciple’ woman takes
charge, the “ mother” may change her occasion-
ally inebriate habits” for one long, uninterrupted
drunk ?
The “Comedy of Convocation” was
written about twenty years ago. Some attributed
it to Dr. Newman, and some to Monsignor Oapel,
but it lost interest before its authorship was deter-
mined, and we don’t now care who wrote it. But
we should like the same satirist to write a comedy
of the Melbourne Presbytery. It would, if realis-
tically done, put Mark Twain’s “ Jumping Frog
in the shade. Leonard Falls’ “Armless Child
wouldn’t be a circumstance to it. The triple-
iawed man in the Eastern Arcade would drop into
obscurity. The Revs. Hay, Rentoul, and Duncan
Fraser lick Galvanic Tommy in contortions and
acrobatic hyjinx. How a sane community allows
such a travesty of sacred things is conceivable
only in the light that Melbourne doesn’t care a
threepenny bit about any saered thing. And, after
all, why should it? Even though It gave it,it
wouldn’t get it.
When the Victorian Parliament vote money
for prospecting purposes, a refund is expected to
be made by such claims as turn out to be payable.
£20,000 has already disappeared on this long-credit
system. The Minister knows right well that several
claims are in a position to refund, but has been
content to nurse his expectation, and wait for
honour to inspire the miners. Eureka I One mine
has been inspired. The Sulieman Pasha has sent
£500 back to Levien. This is the party that an-
nounced not long ago that they believed in nothing
or nobody, and that there were only two things in
life for which men should work—gold and whisky.
There is an intensely sober and God-fearing claim
a little further up, making twice the profit of the
Sulieman Pasha, but Levien has not got a whisper
from that direction. The miners belong to ths
Young Men’s Christian Association, and finish off
eve y night with Sankey’s “ Before the closing of
the day.’’ You ought to put them in gaol, Levien.
You’ll never see a penny of your money other-
wise. They are too full of other inspirations to
afford room to the inspiration on which you wait,
Put them in gaol I
Shall we call him Bo Peep ? We must call
him something, and we sympathise too deeply with
him to give his name to wind and air. He is
domiciled in a leading street of Anthony Trollope’s
“ Modern Miracle.” He is married, of course. I hat
doesn’t require proof when we present him as an
object of sympathy. He is well known among a
large circle as a man of profoundly religious dis-
positions. Sunshine and shower find him twice
every Sunday in the blue-stone building, and the
way he groans concurrence when poor sinful
hum mity is theologically tiayed demonstrates his
orthodoxy most amply. He slid through the In-
solvency Court some months ago, and went the
other day to his wife’s acquaintance, and asked the
' property to be signed back, “ you know.” But the
wife’s acquaintance persists in saying the tr ns-
action was bona fide, and is actually supported in
the statement by Bo Peep's wife. Now, old Bo
Peep wants independent testimony. He can t go
to Judge Blank with facts as they at present
stand, as Judge Boor might turn back the records.
But he cogently enough reasons that if a woman
conspires " th a handsome young male acquaint-
ance to “do” her own hubby in such a way, she
la well, that’s just where the quiet pair have
him. He may reason away, but they don t afford
him the ghost of independent testimony. There s
a church bazaar coming on soon, however, and old
Bo Peep is gathering hope.
The sale of the Gumming ram for 3150
guineas has provoked a certain amount of head-
shaking and lowering of one eyelid among the
knowing ones; but, anyway, the sheep was a grand
one. We fancy that, if we were the owners of that
ram, he would have to board with the family, and
sleep in our dressing-room; we couldn’t trust 3150
guineas out of our sight for long at a time. We’d
never leave him—
The intelligent student may discover a paralysis#
pun in tfie last verse.
THE DINING-OUT ADMINISTRATION.
A Love Lyric.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We were clerks in the “ Customs ” at Sydney,
Will and I;
We were, furthermore, quite of one kidney—
Somewhat shy.
There was love, as of brother for brother,
’Twlxtus two;
And we vowed we would be to each other
Ever true.
For we shared (I assure you, ’pon honour)
Every thought;
Dear Bill, he was big—big as Bonnor;
—(I am short)—
And our costume was careless and simple—
Never “fine;”
Will’s nose was adorned by a pimple,
So is mine.
We had no wicked wish to be wealthy,
Honour bright I
But we both of us boasted a healthy
Appetite.
Now, we long lived in lodgings together.
And, I ween,
We indulged in dark doubts as to whether
They were clean.
Our nature’s were like —mine and Willie’s—
Undeflled;
We could spend a long evening with lilies.
Like O. Wilde.
And, as our twin taste was aesthetic.
We found bliss
In pure poems, both profound and pathetic
(Such as this):
Or William would play on the cornet
Of a night:
’Tie a wonder that I should have borne it-
It is, quite.
THE LABORS OF THE RESULT.
But our landlady had a fair daughter:
Jealous strife . , .
Rose between us because we both sought her
For a wife.
Oh, I loved, in a way most alarming,
Mary Ann; .
As for her, she thought I was a charming
Little man.
And, at length, when I managed to win her,
I was glad;
But poor William grew thinner and thinner,
And looked bad.
So he finally took, one fine morning,
To his bed;
And, without giving one word of warning,
He was dead.
Mary Ann and I grieved most intensely;
In a week , . .
We got married—I loved her intensely,
So to speak.
Women change (it’s as well to be candid)
When they wed;
Yesterday she threw plates, Mary Ann did,
At my head.
And oft at Will’s grave I have tarried,
Tears to shed,
And to wish Mary Ann had but married
Him. instead.
NEW CHUM.
THE GOLDEN RAM.
Last night I slept a fevered sleep,
My mind was much perturbed;
It seemed I dreamed I bought that sheeps
That dream my rest disturbed.
I sought to keep him in my sight,
To chain him at my side ;
And, yet, through all the livelong night,
The beggar tried to hide.
And, later on, I went and dreamt
That (filling me with dread),
From time to time, he would attempt
To stand upon his head;
And, failing to “ bring off” the feat.
He fell upon my bed, ..
Gave one sad bleat and turned to meat —
The Golden Ram was dead.


This is funny. The manager of the Grand
Hotel de L’Europe, Alx-les-Bains, where the Prin-
cess Beatrice and suite are staying, recently wrote
a letter to the Times, in which was embodied the
following request:—“Monsieur,—Je vous 6cris ces
ouelques lignes pour vous annoncer que, comme
son Altesse Royale la Princesse Beatrice m’a fait le
grand honneur de descendre chez moi, je voudrais
cue vous ayez 1’obligeance de publler un petit ar-
ticle en faveur de ma maison; je suis, du reste,
prfit a payer ce que cela coiltera, si vous avez la
bont6 de m’envoyer la note.” Wants an article
cracking up his hotel, and is willing to plank down
the X’s if the editor will send in the hill! But the
Times wouldn’t do it. Now, all the French papers
are much astonished, and comment upon how
much ze Times has to learn in ze riclame line. So
P has. Henry Harrie Cooke is the best hand at
that game we know. He is—we crown him—the
riclame king! He can give a puff and a vote with
equal facility. Let’s see. It was a “ wedding cake ”
las' time. It will be “ a remarkable case of straw-
berries ” next.
“ It gives a man the to see chil-
dren who know nothing of the God above or the
devil below.”
—John M’ELHONE.
Now, Mac., of course, we dearly love,
But this we want to know:
What knows he of “ the God above,”
Or ’f Satan down below ?
When men into the “ horrors” get,
’Tis said that they grow thick
With the arch-flend on whom is set
The queer brand of “ Old Nick.”
We don’t object a bit that Mac.
An imp or two should know,
Or be quite aufait with the pack
Of all the fiends below.
But it gives us the “horrors ” quite.
When thus he sagely nods,
And claims the awful sacred right
To hob-a-nob with “ gods! ’’
A Geelong bank-clerk was sued by a tailor
the other day. The defence was that the trousers
didn’t fit. As a proof of this the defendant retired
into a room adjoining the court and put them on.
The magistrates then went gravely in and in-
spected the result. They made an order for the
amount sued for, and costs to be paid “ when the
trousers were made to fit.” There must have
been a tailor on that bench. If not, the magistrates
would have ordered the plaintiff to wait until the
defendant fitted the trousers. This little incident
shows what a nice thing it would be for the tailor-
ing trade if it had a representative on every magis-
terial bench. Nearly every other trade has—in
New South Wales, anyhow. We have magistrates
of almost every calling, from bricklayers to rat-
catchers. But we have few tailors. Perhaps this
explains why so many of our population are well
dressed.
Our readers will, perhaps, have some re-
collection of a constable named Mahood, who, by
his evidence in a certain picnic case, gained the
undying reputation of a terrible truth-teller.
Well, through some ridiculous misfortune, Mahood
got committed for trial for perjury, and, being
held to ball, he (by way of a joke) absconded. In
reference to this little matter we have received the
following letter:—' "Re Mahood: After his escape,
he was working in a brick-yard not six miles from
Sydney for three months, and is now in London.
I have had this information from one of the force,
who, with others, knew where he was all the time.”
We are very much obliged to our correspondent—
not specially for his Information, but for remind-
ing us of Mr. Mahood. We knew, better than any-
one can tell us, that Mr. M. was snug and comfort-
able all the time the hue and cry was at its highest
We knew this, and laughed as musically as Provi-
dence would allow us to. Our police here are an
admirable force. So are our Judges an admirable
body. And what do they say ? “Let me stand by
” Humph. And what do the police say ? Not
having £350 to spare, we don’t know.
A brewery has been started in the States
“ for the purpose of manufacturing a non-alcoholic
and effervescent malted beverage, containing all
the nutrient and tonic properties of malt liquors,
without their intoxicating principle.” A set of
mouldy-headed old idiots they must be who are
starting this speculation. If they knew anything of
human nature, they would know that the principal
Object of drinking is to get drunk. This is—and
we say it in sad and solemn earnest—thereat reason
why temperance enterprises don’t pay. With the
majority of people, to be drunk means to be happy.
It is a sorrowful fact, but one we may as well look
in the face, that even the consolations of religion
cannot compare, in the estimation of most people,
with the soothing influence of rum. We speak by
the card. We have seen ministers of the gospel
glorious on gin, ecstatic on egg-flip, and speech-
less on schnapps. Son.e day or other a man will
arise who will explain the cause of this almost
unit ersal impulse towards intoxication. Byron
has said that “man being reasonable must get
drunk.” This is the strongest plea that has ever
been advanced in favour of the sanity of the
human race. We have a theory of our own, which
is that men are never sober except when they are
drunk. All our poets are sober.
For the first time, a proper and really
practical trial has been made of boat propulsion
by stored electricity. On 17th July, a trial was
made on the Thames. England, with a boat, 40ft.
long, 6ft. beam, and 3ft. draft of water aft, fitted by
the Electric Storage Company with eighty Sellon-
Voelkmar batteries, hav.ng a weight of 60lb. each,
or in all two tons, very neatly packed beneath the
floor. The screw is 18in. in diameter and 13in. in
pitch, making 680 revolutions per minute. The
speed attained on the voyage was over knots.
The steering, reversing, and manipulation of the
boat were very quick and effectual. The vessel
was intended for the Vienna Exhibition, which
opened in August.
A curious operation was performed in the
Blackall (Q.) Hospital a week or two ago. A child
had fallen into some hot cinders, and the skin of
the palm of one of its hands was completely de-
stroyed. If it had been healed In this state the
sinew and muscles would, of course, have been
drawn together and the limb deformed for life.
Dr. Webb, the surgeon of the hospital, taking this
into consideration, did a very courageous thing.
He got a nurse to hold his arm, and then took from
it with a pair of forceps about ten or twelve strips
of skin, each about the size of a grain of oats, and
grafted them upon the hand of the patient. The
operation, we hear, has been so far successful. It
reminds us somewhat of that ingenious story of
Edmond About—“Le Nez d’un Notalre.” The
notary loses a piece of his nose and has a piece of
somebody else’s nose put in its place, or somebody
else loses his nose and has a piece of the
notary’s substituted— we forget which; but the
man with the mended nose discovers that there la
a mysterious bond of attachment between himself
and the person from whom he borrowed the slice
of flesh, and that he is alternately glowing with
joy at good deeds he has never done, or plunged in
gloom and remorse because of crimes he has never
committed. And all this because it is in reality the
] piece of foreign flesh in his nose that is thinking.
But, of course, this is only a fanciful view of the
question. If Dr. Webb’s experiment turns out
successful, we see a glorious future opening
up to the faculty. They can add to their
fees every time they get such a case as
this by charging, for strips of skin supplied.
And if they are on the staff of a Hospital, the
Board of Management will, of course, furnish
them with a new suit of skin every year. On the
principle also of sympathy they can make their
patients ill whenever they choose by feeling ill
themselves. Here is a magnificent vista of profit,
if you like. And as science should have no senti-
ment, we can see in this discovery a way of utilising
the dead. But doctors would have to he careful in
I doing this. Wo knew a young medical student
I who once took a piece of skin from the hand of a
newly-dcad politician to put it on the lacerated
h ind of a Bible-reader. That Bible-reader died in
I gaol. He could never keep that hand out of other
i people’s pockets. Which shows how cautious men
j should be iu dealing with suebmysteri us matters.
TIGHT!
How the Banks put the Screw on.


PROSPECTUS
OF
Ike Isabella Hold Si Antony Mining a Silting Cnnpj.
NO LIABILITY.
TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE NO-LI ABILITY ACT.
CAPITAL: £20,000, IN 20,000 SHARES OE £1 EACH.
10.000 Shares to be divided as fully paid up Shares amongst the Proprietors, and inr.
Shares are offered to the public at One Shilling per Share on Application, and One Shiliin J
ner share on Allotment, and the balance by calls not exceeding One Shilling per Share e
intervals of not less than one month. The first of such calls to be made not less VL at
three months after date of Allotment of Shares. lQ an
Messrs. R. PHILLIPS
W. B. POTTS
M. GIUGNI
H. M'KELLAR
Provisional IMrectors:
II
Messrs. P. SIMPSON
W. DREW
J. A. M'DONALD
M. KESSLER.
Bankers:
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY.
Hon. Treasurer, pro tem.
Mr. M. GIUGNI.
Hon. Secretary, pro tem.
Mr. M. KESSLER.
Solicitor, pro tem.
Mr. J. A. M'DONALD.
THE discovery of the existence of Gold in considerable quantities in the Antimony Beefs, which have
been worked for more than two years past at Hillvrove Falls, near Armidale, Induced the Pro-
ranters of this Company to purchase the Isabella Gold and Antimony Mine and the Hillgrove Antimony
Smelting Works, with a view to connectedly working these two properties, and to effectually carry out
th \ ? he tOTommSyTs tom Inefor both Gold and Antimony in the Isabella mine above re-
ferred to-to erect, in addition to the Antimony Smelting Works already erected, suitable machinery
for the purpose of extracting the gold,-and also when practicable to buy from or treat for the public
auriferous or plain Antimony ores. , .. , .,
Tn regard to the purchase and treatment of Antimony ores, ns above mentioned, the operations will
ho based on purely commercial principles. The raw ore is purchased at a price regulated accordingto
quality, and the English market prices for Star Antimony. L ke operations have been carried on by
theHillgroveAntimony Smelting Company tor sometime, with satisfactory results to themselves as
Wel The t flrst e oIthe above-mentioned two properties adjoins the well-known Bleanora Mine, and com-
nrises a mineral lease of 30 acres, the desirable portion of which is also secured for Gold Mining P ur -
nn<fe« The reefs now being worked in the Bleanora Mine traverse this property throughout, as is
clearly shown by extensive prospecting operations already done.
The second property comprises a mineral conditional purchase of 40 acres, with Antimony Smelting
and other buildings erected thereon at considerable cost, also the whole of the working plant of
the Hillgrove Antimony Smelting Company. This property is in complete working order, and Ant -
monv Smelting operations may be resumed at any moment. The property is traversed by a nevtr-
fniitno- preek with ample water supply for crushing machinery purposes, Ac., and is tho only available
SJg ofgroundTfforling facilfties in the neighbourhood of the mines, which circumstances make
thi \?ot^pw y pe?ties^LYin’close proximity to each other, and the Smelting Works Property occupies a
00 r ospectaaf this"CompanVpn! vi'ng a success arc such that the Promoters as well as Mining
Experts vC have sGen the Propertles cannot but feel conlldent in the undertaking; in fact it ia gene-
Admitted that this is one of the safest investments ever put before the public. Thir being the
tho" Promoters do not desire to enlarge on the subject, but will simply slate a few plain tacts for
the information of those who are not already aware of them.
“ The iMbeba Mine, like the Bleanora Mine, was originally worked for Antimony only, and although
the existence of gold was known to the then proprietors of these mines as far as two years back, but
mtle attention was paid to this fact. The gold being very line and rarely seen in the stone, nobody pn>-
l abfv suspected it to he present in anything like payable quantities, home time ago. however the
more thoroughly Investigated and, as a consequence, some surprising results have been
obtofnedsin^ A ton 3 Lom the Isabella Mine at the Sydney Mint gave a return ofSoz.lMwts
TwhioS of about four tons each, from the adjoining mine, scut for trial to two different maebinesat
t wo low or auuui „_i,i the of fin/.. 2d wts. nor ton. and 134 tons were bought in Sydney,
rfo.M wo The different lots comprising anovo is* cuuo utmnjcu mmi w »««. per ton. mi™
amulet too numerous to mention, broken by disinterested parties from different parts ofthereefs,
lave on ng Msayed, shown the same average percentage of gold. The reels have an average width
if feet and particularly in the Isabella Mine, they appear very large indeed. At the Isabella side
if theboundary,I etween the Fleanora and Isabella Mines, the reefs gradually descend down agorae
feet deep which circumstance facilitates the economical working of the mine consideiably.
Phfraof™?vhp tanned at any depth below the level of the tableland without previously sinking a
1 fr to P attaln this depth. In short, as no engineering difficulties exist, the raising of stone
can immediately be Reeded with The Bleanora Company are now erecting their mushing battery
and have the same in full operation about the middle of November, when the full value of
thC nn ; t v oYau riferou’fq uartz on the surface, and actually visible, within the boundaries of the
estfinuteii at between two and throe’tbousand tons, which will bo raised at a very 0*
„ r Sn^invthe mine, the reefs have been opened and exposed to view in many places
oost. In , n „ rtv anr i ,,ieces may he broken off the reef anywhere, which will assay very
favourably". In tie Shelia Mine gold Is plainly visible in the solid reef in many places along the
line u is not proposed to call up more than six or seven shillings per share, for, in all probability, about
10 kLst 1 rotuntil it should be deemed desirable by the Company to enter into the purchas
and StoentofAntimony ore. It is contldently expected that the expenditure of this proportion ol
the capital will make tho mine a dividend-paying concern.
The Share List will POSITIVELY CLOSE on the 7th October next, or sooner
if the required number of Shares are applied for.
Annlieatlon for Shares will be received by the Secretary, or any of the
Directors, in the following form
APPLICATION FORM.
To the Provisional Directors of Mininff Smelti ° g C ° mPaDr
Gentlemen, the sum G f £ being a Deposit of One Shillingper8hate^ r
J Shares, of One Pound each, in the above Company, which I^eguesD^
a .5JTi !ofnt 0 me- and i hereby agree to accept the same, or any less number that may be abetted, 8iih)«|
tT, the provisions of the Memomndum and Articles of Association constituting the Company, which
hereby agree to execute when called upon to do so.
Name in full
Occupation
Residence
DATE
THE SMITH AMERICAN ORGAN
No less than 77 landed, at from 12 to 90 Guineas.
The 12-GUINEA ORGAN, ° cheapness.
The “CONNOISSEUR” ORGAN
sional Musicians, and for Church, Concert, or Lodge use.
The SMITH ORGANS were awarded the Only First P r,zfl
at the Melbourne Exhibition.
Price Lists, for CASH or EASY TERMS, on application to the Sole Agents,
281 GEORGE STREET.
•XTICTOKIA FURNITURE POLISH.
TO WHOLESALE BUYERS.
The above may be had at the following: Ware-
houses. viz
Hoidsworth, M‘Pherson, and Co., George-street
Precious, Ooust, and Oo., King-street
E. Kirchner and Co., w ynyard-street
Holdswonh and Co., George-street
T. W. Bady and Co., York-street
S. Taylor, Bridge-street.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 3rd September, 1883.
TENDERS FOR TAR-PAVING AND REPAIRS.
TENDERS are invited for tar-paving and re-
pairs at the Botany Public School. Plans and
specifications may be seen, and lorms of tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for tar-paving and
repairs, Botany Public School,” must be lodged
with the Acting Onder-Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m. on
MONDAY, the 24th September, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to except the
lowest or any tender.
G. H. REID.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 6th September, 1883.
TENDERS FOR REPAIRS AND IMPROVE-
MENTS.
TENDERS are invited for Repairs and Improve-
ments, at the Coogeo Public School.
Specitications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at tne office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Repairs and Im-
provements, Coogee Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a m. on Wednesday, the 36th September, 1883.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO,
(Late William Long),
Jgr WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
EVERY
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marston’s New Work
Describing how Giifferers from
Nervous ami Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and lyll disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS. AND lUfOXEMT
MEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH A MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address —
Mar stem Remedy Co.,
72 ELISABETH ST., SYDNEY.
The Jester is dead. Digester !
In the States there are 12,308 journalists,
of whom 288 are women. In N.S.W. there are a
large number of old women engaged on the
papers.
An enterprising firm of undertakers lately
started in Sydney, have sent us a circular contain-
ing the gloomy information that “ we are now in a
position (having hearses and coaches of our own)
to properly carry out any class of funerals en-
trusted to iis.” We read their circular with sombre
glee, and should be happy to give them our custom
if we had anv dead on hand. But, owing to the
remarkable diffidence which young men who have
“dashed off things” have shown of late in ap-
proaching us, we are sorry to say we are out of
cadavers. And, anyhow, we don’t think we should
trade with our funeral friends. Half the joy of
pole-axing a poet is inthoburying him. This is the
reason why we have, up till now, done all our
burying ourselves.
Some men are lucky from the start. In
Auckland (N.Z.) there is a man who, not only has
the good fortune to be deaf and dumb, but who
has wooed, won, and married a woman possessing
the same accomplishments. The man who “ gave
away” was similarly endowed— thus completing a
trinity of silence. Some time must necessarily
elapse before the result is known, but all the Dar-
winians in N.Z. are in a flutter about it. Should
the “baby” turn out deaf and dumb, the theory
of “ Evolution ” will be placed beyond high-water
mark. The local papers congratulate the bride-
groom on discovering a wife who can neither flirt
nor “ nag.” Have they already forgotten that in a
New Zealand divorce case, twelve months ago, the
wife enjoyed a first-class flirtation by means of the
deaf and dumb alphabet ? Yet she can hear and
speak.
Petty larceny is a] poor thing at its best,
but petty larceny in verse is the poorest thing we
know of. And when the stolen verse is itself poor,
what simile can express the poverty of the thieves ?
Their own brains, perhaps: but that is not a simile
—it is a fact. Only a little while ago. a New Zea-
land paper published a set of verses headed ori-
ginal. Well, they were only written by one Ella
Wheeler, an American poetess. Either the genius
who copied them played upon the ignorance of the
editor, or the editor played upon the ignorance of
his readers; it don’t matter much which where all
are ignorant. The title of the stolen poem is “ You
Kissed Me.” Here are some luscious lines from
it
“ And your lips clung to mine, till I prayed in my
Theg might never unclasp from that rapturous
The sequel seems to be that they never did. Which
is a plain proof that Ella was in love with a bulldog
at the time. They are so eccentric, these poet-
esses.
A man in a New Zealand town sued the
Corporation, the other day, for injuries sustained
one night by. coming into collision with a tele-
graph post. And he got £30 damages. This is the
kind of law wo believe In. We think a stop should
be put to the midnight roystering of telegraph
posts and such things. The way they go tearing
around at night is something scandalous. A man
is going peaceably home, and one of these harum-
scarum posts cannons up against him and leaves
him in such a condition that, if he is able to find
his own door, he is probably unable to explain
how he got there. And so suspicion and mistrust
are sown in a family. If there were any decent aw
here, we know one ruffianly specimen of this class
we should issue a summons against. It is a pillar-
box. and is supposed to stand on the corner of the
street which we at present make famous by living
in But, does it stand ? Not much—at night, any-
how We have endeavoured to teach it a lesson
once or twice, but in vain. Last time we tried we
staved in for three weeks afterwards. We are
aorrv to have to make such an accusation against
what ought to be a respectable feature of the
street, but we are constrained to do it. We believe
it drinks. If wo only had those New Zealand
magistrates over here, we fancy we could get
damages enough from the Corporation to retire
non for injuries sustained through.that pillar-
box alone. But there is no justice in this country.
Just the other day a man advertised in a
Palmer River (Q.) paper for a wife. A. local faappho
replied to him through the paper in the following
festive fashion:—
“ I’m fair and young, but the rose will fade
From my soft young cheek one day;
Will you love me then, mid the fading leaves,
As you did in the blossoms of May ?
“ Is vour heart like an ocean, as str ong and as deep,
That I may launch my all on its tide ?
A loving woman finds it Heaven or Hell
The day she becomes a bride.
This is the kind of girl we have dreamt of meeting.
If she will accept these few verses as a token of our
devotion, we shall be too happy to walk home
straight. Lightly— so;
We are glad, dear girl, you are fair and young,
We are glad you are young and fair,
And we’ll love you the fading leaves among
If you’ll send us the price of our laro.
We’re sure you’ve a “ soft young cheek,” dear
If your pa has amassed;
We don’t care much if tho rose will fade
As long as the coin will last.
That our heart is deep you can bet upon—
You’d find it Heaven for a spell; -
But as soon, sweetheart, as the com was gone,
We’re afraid you would find it Hell.
Last Thursday the Sydney News-boys’
Brigade wore entertained at a cake-and-lolly ban-
quet Several of the patrons delivered ad-
dresses "—Mr. Jelferis, Alfred Allen, G. A. Lloyd,
and Mr. Satchell (whoever he is): but we are only
Concerned to report the speech of Mr. Allied
Bennett. It was, so far as we can learn, asTfol-
lows • 4 ‘ Boys -You want instruction. You want
In know that KAT spells kat, and DO KG, dorg.
That instruction. You all sell the Town and
Kunthy Jernel. Well, buy it. Listen to this.
(A dead silence.) There was once a boy (here
Alfred was deeply affected)-there was once a boy
who took the Town and Kuntry Jernel
reg’lar. Ho read it, ho studied it, and in
course of time he learned to play the
flute (Applause). The neighbours came and lis-
tened to him; were surprised that a buy could
thu wail out woefully from the pages of a magic
iournal. But (in tears) ho is—dead. He piayed
according to our special instructions. Whenever
the Ternel told him to plug up a flute-hole with
his little finger, he plugged it up. The effect was
electric; but it aroused the envy of the neigh->
Ss One day this youth piped under a grocer s
window/ lie had grasped our instructions of
" How to Play the flute without a Master,” and he
died A piercing shriek, dear children, came
down from the second story-and he died.
n,.T what a glorious death t Talk ot Nelson
faUing on the deck of the Trafalgar! Talk of
Wolfe (the inventor of Schnapps! being shot down
breach at Quebec! Bah! They are now
nbnost forgotten. But can the world ever fail to
?imemher a boy who fell clutching his flute in
hand, and his Town and Kuntry
instructions in the other? Boys! You know
me I sail with civilization. There is a deal of
“if but no return about me!. Become men. Be
*7*',,moral, chaste, and industrious; never
fo«re? U that life’s dearest duties are to be good and
iSst® and that the dearest of them all is to push
the Town and Kuntry and to sell the Bvunooze.
lAnnlause) There was a time when I myself was
nnSpidtivated,— when I wrestled in words of two
Syllables and got cruelly floored. But now! give
me the word ‘pudden.’ and in the course of an
hour or so I can give you change for it. Agree-
able ’ you can have with as many e’s as you please:
and® it it comes to parsing, sling me a preposition
tiiat is often used in our poeiry, and 111 coilm it oi
There’s a moral in all this, ho>s. vvndc is
that moral ? Why, study the kollums of the lown
and kuntry Jernel. and you will grasp educa-
tion science, and er— and a know ledge of cookery.
(Loud appffiuse.) Hero Alfred sat down-on a pin.
Subsequently, once more .rising, he said— Bojs,
can you write poetry ? As Shakespeare ob-
serves-” Here the speaker broke down, and the
meeting broke up..
A revised list of licensed victuallers has
just been issued by the Treasury. The Evening
Nooze criticises the performance most favourably.
“The list,” says that literary authority, “appears to
have been prepared with great care at the Treasury
otSce, where the clerical work is invariably per-
formed in a creditable manner.” The learned and
laborious work in question, doubtless, deserves
the praises of the only journal equal to the task of
appreciating the peculiar subject.
Big as was the price given at Melbourne
last week, for a ram, the figure pales before what
we read of Bakcwell’s celebrated ram “Two
Pounder,” whoso letting value for a single season,
was rated at 1300 guineas. Talking of rams, the
Talmud remarks:—“A ram has but one voice
while alive, but seven after he is dead; since his
horns make two trumpets, his hip-bones two pipes,
his skin can be extended into a drum, his larger
guts yield strings for the lyre, and the smaller ones
for the harp.”
The Sunderland catastrophe reminds a
contributor of a scare that once occurred at Pesha-
wur upon a Sunday “ The church had an iron
roof, which during service made an awful rum-
bling. There was an alarm of earthquake, and out
rushed the whole congregation, clergyman in-
cluded, among them the olfleer’s of a Highland and
a Hussar regiment. They had plenty ot doorway,
one end of the church being open verandah; but,
even so, some of the Highlanders jumped out
through the windows. One lady forgot her little
girl, and not till she was missing out of the porch
did it strike her to inquire—‘Where’s Dora?’
Happily Dora was safe. Colonel Probyn (since with
H.H.H. the Prince of Wales) and the other olficers of
a native corps were the only men who kept their
heads and seats, and the child had wisely gone to
them. The Hussar and Highland officers never
liked to hear that Sunday referred to.”
There has been (something cheerful, now)
a “ brutal murder ” up at Rockhampton. A womsn
named “ German Ada ” was “ pounded to death ”
in a by no means high-toned terrace, known as the
“Three Gun Battery,” there. And by way of
pleasing variety, we may chronicle the fact that
the murderer tnis time is not a Chinaman. There
are a good number of Celestials up there, and we
are sure that this assurance on our parts, though
it may surprise for the moment, will, without
doubt, sooth the minds of their relatives and
friends in the classic precincts of Cambridge-
street and the Argyle Cut The guilty man is
stated to be a cabman. Curious. Cabmen are
al ways murdering German Adas, or Scotch Alices
or Ginger Georgies, What can be the reason ?
Something in the rank, perhaps. Or can they be
Intolerant, x-elying on the old adage, “None but
the brave deserve the fare ?”
Here is a list of a few of the supporters of
that oleaginous politician, Fwederick Augustus
Coopah, Esq., who is a candidate for re-elec-
tion up North
No. on Roll. Name. Qualification. Residence.
70 Chin Pack Freeholder Cooktown
77 Chin Pow „ „
78 Chin Chang ,, ,,
337 Tee Sing „ „
338 Leong Mow „ „
398 Sea 'Vah ,, ,,
Nice this, isn’t it ?
Hydraulic ventilators are to be tried in
the Legislative Assembly- How would it do to insist
that members spoke from a tribune; and, then, so
to connect the hydraulic apparatus with the
sounding-board that a shower-bath would result
in speaking too long or too excit dly ? — Mr. Wm
Redmond, M.P., started for his New Zealand mis-
sion on Thursday last by the Zealandia.
Cardinal Howard is in England doing
vat-he-can towards re-establishing diplomatic
relations between Great Britain and the alleged
representative of the Fisherman... The Indian
Vice-regal Council, after consultation per cable
with Jemmy Inglis, have introduced a Bill provid-
ing for self-government in British Burrnah — The
cost of the last general election in England was
£3,500,000. It is hoped that the newh-introduced
Corrupt Practices Bill will reduce the expenditure
to £800,000 The Pam, Mall Gazette thinks
that the only hope for “Democracy” is the ex-
tentlon of the franchise womanwards. Our own
impression is that, if 'twero only possible to bestow
on sensible women the votes of which foolish men
had been deprived, the preponderance of electors
would be female. ..The French will soon have 37
modern fighting ships to our 34. What does this
extraordinary expenditue and activity in French
naval affairs mean ? Can it be that, their Eastern
neighbours proving too much for them, they
desire to change the venue to the North ?


TOPICS OF THE «


W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fox-tnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
* To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
No. 4 PITT STREET.
L
iSSXS
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK. SYDNEY.
ARTTFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
MEDICATED VAPOUR BATHS.
For those diseases where noxious drugs adminis-
tered through the stomach impair the constitution
of the unhappy recipient, and in many cases fail to
cure,
FACTS ARE STUBBORN THINGS.
H. W. COOPER eradicates the most Inveterate
cases of disease, without medicine internally, in
less than a sixth of the time required for success
by any other treatment.
Relief from Rheumatic Pains.
To Mr. Cooper,—I can scarcely find words to
thank you for the remarkable «ure you have
effected in my case. I have suffered with bad legs
tor over 10 years ; I have tried many doctors, and
taken everything advertised to cure, but I grew
worse, and sick of trying. My age is over 60,1 am
very stout, and, keeping a shop, am compelled to
walkabout. My friends advised me to go to you.
I now wish I had gone at first —I should not have
suffered so long, and it would have been pounds in
ray pocket. My legs are both healed up, and I am
quite well. If anyone doubts the genuineness of
your treatment, let them come to me, or any of
my friends who knew how I suffered. I may add
I improved fast from the first day I visited you.
Mrs. Black,
August 4th, 1883. 317 Elizabeth-street.
To Mr. Cooper.—I wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my ease. I had bad legs
for two years, and could get no relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastwat (Eastway Brothers),
George-street.
H. W. C. has voluntary testimony that would fill
a newspaper, and he has not been in the colony
twelve months.
340 CROWN STREET, opposite Reservoir.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH,
On GOLD, VULCANITE, &c., ;
made on the most approved modern principles.
Warranted to combine fit, comfort, and durability,
with perfectly natural appearance.
All dental operations performed with skill. Pain-
less exti-actions. Teeth stopped.
Charges strictly moderate.
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SURGEON DENTISTS,
IOG Market-street, near Hyde Park.
James Carroll,
FREE SELECTORS’ & MINERS’ LAND
AGENT,
WENTWORTH HOUSE, CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Boyd's Beard Kllxir did this, and will do it
on either bald b«a4 or bare face. ' Forces
heavy Moustache ip from'2 to 4 weeks and
never tails, yoyng men already wear
[full beard..having used I.to 3 pkt'*. Mo
injury, easily applied, certain in effect.
Packets Is. 6d. each',3for3s:6d„ post paid,
sent under eover.free from observation, Address,Frank Douglas,
Sole Agent, Box Wo. G.P.O., Sydney, N.'S-W.
“WHAT IS A SECRET?’’
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
they will study both “ Comfort and Economy ” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
NOTTING & CO.,
COAL AND FUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowpkk’s W harf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
■f-f '” ; i'
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following renowned English, French, and
German Makers:—
Erard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood & Sons
Kirkman
Soufleto
Trost & Co.
Lipp & Sohn
Aucher
Ronlseh
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Sohiedmayer
Challen & Son
Ecke
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schwechten
Schwander,
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell, & Co., Palace Organ Company;
Waters & Co., Peloubert, and others.
Bell & Co’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS by Alexander & Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
PALING & CO.’S PIANOS have taken SEVERAL
PRIZES at the LATE AUSTRALIAN INTER-
NATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
W. H. PALING,
Pianoforte, Organ & Harmonium Galleries,
356 GEGRGE STREET.
UMin
HARVestTm
INERv
CHAMPION
ENGINES-
n
AND
IHKSB
FLEUR
0*\ B
5V
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
33 and 38 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
* URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, DURN8. SCALDS, &o., and
aKen internally cures DIARRHCE A., DYSENTERY,
:RAMPS, COLIC, and all other Internal aches
ad pains. _______
t*rice, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole pbopcictor,
IV1ELBOUENE AND SYDNEY.
PAINT
Vj
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brana
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefor*
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
CATTELL & CO.. Sole Agents.
315 George Street.
A few of our undertaking's MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the Opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
H Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLANWILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1253,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their U.K.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Minos and Zigzag.
Dinner d la Rime, for 00, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 16,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN—™ Queen’s Statue Demonstration-under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
V isit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exni-
bltion Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDS YE R.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner d la Rime at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner d la Rime to the INTERCOLONIAL RIF1 B
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKBB
BURY RACE*, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 600, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION—Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, 800, following night.
Children’s feast, 1184, the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Lord Augustus Loftus, the
Ministry, and Ms.P., while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &c.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Rime in the N.S.W
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners
P’easts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tee
Meetings land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
[T is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment as Cadets in the
Department of the Surveyor-General will be held
early in N vember next. The exact date, when
fixed, will be duly notified. Candidates must have
attained the age of 16 years, or they will not be
eligible for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further in-
formation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
General, or personally to the Secretary and
Cashier.
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 32nd June, 1883.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
1ST 308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
M A G E N BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
'’CREBRfJBX-
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO,
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
WOOL SALES, 1883.
MY very numerous constituents, and all in-
terested in the wool trade, will please take
notice that my unrivalled
NEW WAREHOUSE
AT
Darling Harbour Railway Terminus
Will be READY FOR THIS SEASON, and that I
shall he prepared to do the fullest justice to the
LA KGIT as well as the SMALLEST Clips.
Each lot will be carefully Weighed and Valued
as soon as received, weights and valuations being
submitted to owners so as to hear from them be-
fore sale if necessary.
Owing, now, to the attendance of Foreign
Buyers, our market is equal to the London Market
—a point well worth remembering. Any Bank or
Firm holding liens on wool will, if asked, allow
owners to send their wool to me ; and any For-
warding Agents, or Managers of Railways or
Steam Companies, will receive and forward Wool
or other Produce on my account, and pay carriage
or other expenses.
ALL PROCEEDS OF SALE will be available, as
heretofore, at ANY TIME after sales ; or AD-
VANCES, small or large, made before sales are
effected.
SALES of LIVE STOCK, TALLOW, HIDES.
GRAIN, SUGAR, and every sort of Produce will
also meet with the greatest possible care.
JOHN BRIDGE.
MORT and CO. (Limited),
WOOL AND GENERAL
PRODUCE BROKERS.
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
Grain and Flour Brokers.
Wool,
LIBERAL ADVANCES
made on
Sheepskins,
Tallow,
Hides, Wheat,
Tin Ore, and
other Produce
for SALE and SHIPMENT.
Wool Warehouses and Produce Stores,
CIRCULAR QUAY
and t
DARLING HARBOUR, SYDNEY.
NOTICE TO WORKMEN.
MR. BLUNT announces that work will com-
mence on his contract,
HAWKESBURY RIVER TO GOSFORD,
on
MONDAY, 24th SEPTEMBER,
when his old workmen are invited to rally round
him.
MAIN CAMP, GOSFORD.
Gosford is easily reached by steamer from King-
street Wharf, Sydney, daily. Fares, from 3s. to 5s.
By road from Newcastle the distance to Gosford
is 50 miles ; from Maitland to Gosford 60 miles.
The work being in sand and sandstone cuttings,
men are guaranteed three years’ continuous work
in fine weather, and no loss of time.
The works are within three hours’ run by steamer
ot Sydney, and families will enjoy all the advan-
tages «f a residence in Sydney, with a cheaper rate
of living.
GOOD WATER and FIREWOOD obtainable at
all points of the works ; and SCHOOLS will be
opened up for families where necessary.
GEORGE BLUNT,
Main Camp, Gosford.
HAWKESBURY RIVER TO GOSFORD.
WANTED, MINERS to drive9x9 Headings,
through sandstone cuttings, from 500 to
2000 feet in length. Tools and waggons will be
found. Contractors to find their own horses.
GEORGE BLUNT,
Railway Contractor,
Gosford.
A. & T. PRINGLE & CO.,
289.1.
44 MARKET ST,
SYDNEY,
Importers of
WEIGHING
MACHINES,
AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS,
AND
MACHINERY.
BROWN & MAY’S
Portable Engines, Saw Benches, Chaff Cutters,
Horse Gear, &c.
uimors hotel
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBURN
UBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
47 8 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Ob, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD 8HO-


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
rr, nhdll be glad to home this index posted up by
W6 secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
;:::5lSli
S'SS’j o te “* J - & • •' .rrSSSKft t
5 T C September 28,28.
?r° awpUhrook" September 37, 38.
Ksitr .October 3, 4.
• • • • • • October 6.
f[awkes T Uay (N.Z.j j.C. Spring o^b^lAa)’
y ol S g .October IS, 30.
S? U i nln.mn u- October 34, 36.
\Vollong k ■ a •••,"' November 3,6,8,10.
lc^hnrv % F)Tc::......November 6, 7, 8.
Canterbury ( • November#.
riarenee'kiver j.C. (Amateur) November #.
ASttnd (NXIILC.
Tamworth December 22.
(N.Z.) H.C.'Summer..Dec. 38, Jamiaryl^3.
Tasmanian R.C.‘ (Slimmer) February 13,14,15.
AQUATICS
Svdney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club (formal
! fe’S“r
Sc iTnuafRegatta'- • • September 39.
rreen (S.A.) v. Wood (Vic.), at Melbourne.Jept 29.
New South Wales Association Regatta Octobor 6.
Sydney Amateur Canvas Club l8t 0 S e r 13.
Double a Bay Regatta:! 9.
Balmain Regatta November 17.
December
All Comers Regatta January
National Regatta Janua y
ATHLETICS.
ILK&b^
Svdney Amateur Athletic Club .... September 33.
Newcastle Cricket and Football (Rugby) Clubs,
Annual Athletic Sports Septomber 33.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
Bathurst Sheffield Handicap November 9.
PIGEON SHOOTING.
Wagga Handicap September 14.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The best spqrting “ profit “ Consulta-
tion.” , . ...
First Water has been backed to win the
Melbourne Cup to the tune of £43,000 at thousands
to fifty.
The V.R.C. has decided to reduce the
height of the hurdles to a shade over three feet.
Hitherto, they have been 3ft. 6in.
Bv a new rule of the Race Club, book-
makers are compelled to wear badges. Some of
them ought also to bo made to wear nose-bags.
Dirk Hatteraick has done the hat-trick
three times running, and one to spare. His wm In
the S.A.J.C. Derby made his tenth consecutive wm.
After June next it will be a penal offence,
in South Australia, to work the totalisator. We
suppose the South Australian Goody-Goodies are
now totalisatorsfled.
A P. Lucas, the cricketer, has quarrelled
with the Surrey Cricket Club. Now Joshua,
old boy, when you've finished that hunk of
damper you can let the sun go on. [What is
this f—Ed. B.].
The ten miles’ professional bicycle cham-
pionship, raced for at Aylestone Grounds, Lei-
cester, on 7th July, was won by Fred. Wood, who
covered five miles in 19mm 24sec, and the full dis-
tance in 36min 13-5sec.
On 33nd Aug., Messrs. M‘Kenzie’s and Cun-
ningham’s ponies raced from Jerilderie to Tirana
and back, a distance of seventy miles. M Kenzie s
pony covered the distance m six hours twenty
minutes, including stoppages.
J. Lowndes, of the Twickenham ] R.C.,
England, had a row over Wr the Wingfield Chal-
lenfe Sculls on 13th July. The annual race for
this trophy is always regarded as carrying with it
the amateur championship of England.
For the bicycle race from Kyneton to Mel-
bourne (Vic.), about fifty miles, eighteen starters
put in an appearance. The winner turned up m
J P Jenkins, of Ballarat, who finished in the pre-
sence of fully 3000 spectators in 3hrs. 50ram.
The Clarence River J.C. has decided to
charge the bookmakers a fee of three guineas
annually. The Grafton people must be plucky
ones to chance the displeasure of the Books, after
the latter’s determination to annihilate the Hawkes-
bury Club.
Various country papers persisted in print-
ing the horse Yately as “ G-ately, after the re-
cently deceased Victorian executioner. It was an
ominous error: but, though Yately lately made a
good many of his backers 4 Jack for time, he
could hardly be looked upon as a 4 ketch.
The mile tricycle and five miles bicycle
championships, held under the auspices of the
National Cyclists’ Union, were decided on July 7th
at the Lower Ground, Aston, Birmingham (Eng.)
F. Sutton won the five miles bicycle m 16 mm.
43 3-5 sec.; and the one mile tricycle race fell to
C. E. Liles, in 3 min. 181-6 sec.
At the Brixton (Eng.) Ramblers’ Bicycle
Club sports, A. Thompson, of the Sutton B.C., beat
Dr. Herbert L. Cortis’ previous best on record
quarter and half mile, doing 40 3-5sec and 1mm
19 4-5sec as against the Doctor s 41sec and 1mm
30sec. Dr. Cortis’ one mile and twenty miles re-
cords are still unbeaten.
The fastest half-mile running time is
1 min. 53V6 sec., made by Frank Hewitt, at Lyttel-
ton, New Zealand, September 31, 1871. Frank was
27 years of age at the tim . We saw Hewitt at
Kandwick last week, which brought this record to
our mind. He seems to, carry his two-score bar
one of years very lightly.
Since the Melbourne Herald commenced
a series of articles “going for” certain of the Cup
44 Consultations,” there has been a terrible flutter-
ing among the “birds of prey” of Bourke-street.
Nine-tenflis of the sporting sweeps announced are
swindles. There are only two genuinely conducted
“consultations” in Sydney, and about the same
number in Melbourne
The Queen’s Prize at Wimbledon this year
was 44 gaely ” won by Sergeant Mackay, a native of
Dornoch, who lives at Tain. He had a narrow
squeak for it. He had finished with 79 points in
the final heat, and Private M’Vittle, who was the
last to shoot, only made an 44 outer.” Had he made
an 44 inner” with his last shot, he would have tied
with Sergeant Mackay, and as his total score tor
the shooting in the first stage of the competition
was higher than Mackay’s, he would have been de-
clared the winner.
The Southern Rugby Football Union car-
ried out a lengthy programme of sports on the
Association Cricket Ground last Saturday. H. M.
Bayliss won the place kick over a goal with 61
yards 1 foot 7 inches. J. Atkinson, 8 yards, won
the 320 yards handicap in 33^8ep. The mile foot-
bailers’ bicycle race fell to H. Shelley. G. W.
Walket appropriated the 300 yards maiden in 36sec.
R. B. Hill proved himself the bestfootball dribbler.
A. Henry, Newington, won the quarter-mile
Schools. The Wallaroos won the Clubs’ Tug of
War. P. James won the hundred yards in 103-10
sec. The quarter-mile handicap fell to A Henry,
35 yards. A. G. White won the 150 yards maiden.
The mile walking handicap was won by A. L.
Wade, 90sec. start. J. M. Fergusson, 375 yards
start, won the three miles bicycle handicap in II
min. Slsec. 8. P. Jones made the best drop kick
over a goal. W. A. Gilder won the potato race.
G. C. Addison, owing 8 yards, won the 150 yards
hurdle handicap in 36sec. M. Kennett, 00 yards,
won the half-mile handicap, time 3min. 9sec.; and
H. S. Dickson finished the card by winning the
hop, step and jump, with 38 feet 10 inches.
(Contrary to their usual luck, the North
Shore Rowing Club had a fine day for their annual
regatta, a light north-easter blowing scarcely hard
enough to raise a ripple on the briny. T. B.
Trebeck won the maiden sculls; T. E. Cresweli s
crew appropriated the maiden fours; the White
Squall crew won the man-of-war race; the junior
pair-oars fell to Little and Connolly; and Taylor,
H. Robey, Love, and Cresweli won the scratch
fours.
The balance-sheet of the Melbourne
Cricket Club shows there is money to be made out
of the “national game.” The receipts for last
season amounted to the enormous sum of £13,398
11s 3d. Towards this, subscriptions contributed
£3180, and the receipts at the All England cricket
matches amounted to no less than £9150 Us Id
The expenses in connection with the visit of Hon.
Ivo Bligh and his colleagues totalled £6555 13s Id,
leaving a profit of £3800 18s.
There is a probability of cricketers once
more having a voice in their own affairs, judging
by the way “ Bunkey ” Urquhart’s proposal
brought down the house at the Association meet-
ing. Everyone present appeared to be heartily m
accord with his sentiments, except the ground
trustees, who took their groats very unkindly.
Seven years ago, more clubs wore represented in
the Association, and funds were in a more flourish-
ing condition, than at present. To remedy this,
Mr. Gibson proposes ground representation. We
suggest a change of administration would have
a much better effect.
The annual race for the Coney Island Cup,
distance two miles and a quarter, was run at
Sheepshead Bay course, on June 17. The starters
were George L. Lorillard’s Monitor, with 111 lbs.
up, Fred. Gebhardt’s Eole, 114 lbs., and Gen.
Monroe, 114 lbs. Monitor, having won the West-
chester Cup, was the favourite. Eole won, with
Gen. Monroe second, and Monitor third. Tirae4 - 04.
Freddie took Mrs. Langtry to the racecourse that
dav. which was the means of Walton winning a
pot of money. The Plunger knew the Lily was
present, and guessing Freddie would not allow his
filly to be beaten in the presence of his mash
put £1000 on Bole “ on general principles, and
“ scooped the pool.”
The London Tricycle Club’s twenty-four
hour road competition eventuated on 7th July.
No less than 67 competitors put in an appearance
and were despatched on their journey at inidnig’ht
on the 6th. The winner turned up In T. R. Mar-
riott, of the Nottingham B.U., who covered 318)4
miles, a distance that not even the most enthu-
siastic trlcyclist would have believed possible. To
make the performance more remarkable, Bell, s
Life savs that: —“The route chosen was from
Caterham Junction, through Brighton, Shoreham,
Arundel, Chichester, Fareham, Romsey, Salisbury,
Winchester, Alton, Guildford, Ripley, Kingston,
and Merton, to Croydon (236 miles). Over such a
distance, of course, it is impossible to find the best
of roads all the way, but the 25 miles between
Salisbury and Winchester should have been
avoided, as it is totally unsuitable for cycling at
any time, not only being exceedingly hilly, but the
surface, nearly all the way, is loose and stony.
We give the following clipping from the
’Frisco Newsletter, just to show what we may
expect if Mr. Muldoon honours Australia with his
illustrious presence:—“ The Bibby-Muldoon match
came off at the Metropolitan Temple on Tuesday
night, in the presence of a large audience. It
ended as we said it would—in a draw —neither man
securing a fall. There was in the struggle a good
deal of apparent earnestness, and both men must
be congratulated upon the skill with which they
gull an innocent pu blic. They are a pair of active
and powerful wrestlers, but more highly accom-
plished in the art of simulation. The next move
is to double what is called the ‘ stakes,’ and wrestle
four hours instead of two. We cannot say who
will win, and don’t care; but we hope that only
fools will risk a dollar in betting on such a brace
of shams.” Should Muldoon meet Miller, how-
ever, we feel sure the latter will not consent to any
of this “draw ” business. Hem 1
A correspondent has dropped ns a line
stating that, when we said in a previous issue that
Tom King knocked the middle-weight, Jem Mace,
out in one blow, we ought, in all fairness, have
informed our readers, that Mace had also defeated
Tom King. We may inform our correspondent
that, when King and the Gipsy fought their first
battle, King was a comparative novice, and Mace
defeated him by superior generalship. The en-
counter took place at Godstone, England, January
38, 1863. King’s weight was 12st. 81b., and Mace
weighed a shade over list. King gained first blood
in the first round from Mace’s chin, and his supe-
rior height and reach caused him to take a decided
lead; Mace extricating himself the best way he
could when in close quarters. ' King floored Mace
in the 30th round with a smash on the left jaw,
and in the 27th followed sult.with another rights
handed cross counter on the same spot. As the
tight progressed, however, Mace’s superior
generalship told its tale, and he frequently back-
heeled and cross-buttooked King. In the I3nd
round Mace was tlrst to call of time, but when
King was sent up he rushed at Jem, delivering
left and right very wildly, Mace giving him a
stinging upper-cut; he then clinched and threw
King, whose head struck the ground, knocking all
the tight out of him. He was unable to come to
time, and Mace was declared the victor after
lighting 68 minutes.
A gentleman named Howe, residing near
Datchet, England, sought to obtain an injunction
against the proprietor of the Manor Hotel, in the
same neighbourhood, so as to restrain him from
the practice of pigeon shooting. Mr. Howe stated
tnat badly-wounded birds constantly alighted on
his house. He had seen as many as seven of them
within a quarter of an hour. “ Some alighted on
the window-sills, and some came into the house.
It was,” said he. “ extremely distressing for my
wife, who was in delicate health, and for my
daughters and young children, to see the poor
wounded pigeons about the house and in the
grounds, where they sometimes lingered for days."
Mrs. Howe corroborated his statements, and a
female servant swore that “ on one occasion she
found two wounded pigeons in tho nursery—one
on the floor and another on the table. The sight
affected the children, and the youngest cried very
much.’’ Mr. Justice Stephen Inveighed most
strongly against the brutalities of the practice,
and granted the injunction sought without wait-
ing to hear the defendant’s evidence. This may
have been only right; but it seems that men who
lived in tho neighbourhood of Hurlmgham and the
Gun Club in the royal and noble and happy days
of pigeon shooting, were ridiculed when they
spoke of their sensibilities and the sensibilities of
tneir wives and children. An injunction was
sought with regard to this very same place Datchet
before pigeon shooting had received such severe
handling both in Parliament andoutof Parliament
as it has received recently, but the application was
regarded in an altogether different spirit from
that in which it was regarded now that pigeon
shooting has altogether lost the caste that once
hedged it around and made it safe from vulgar in-
terference I What about tho English bench, now ?
The second (Metropolitan) day of the
A.J.C. Spring meeting was gusty and bleak, which
had a prejudicial effect on the attendance, as at
the very outset there could not have been more
than ten thousand on the course. The Shorts was
won by Blue and White, two lengths away from
Bayard; Bell Bird third. Bristol justified the con-
fidence placed in him, and beat Olga by a bare
half length for the Spring Maiden Stakes. Pala-
renda third. For the Metropolitan, First Demon
led into the straight, and held pride of place till a
hundred yams from home, when the Gem came
with a rush and got on even terms with the
favourite. The pair raced neck and neck to tho
post, which the Gem passed a bare head In
front of First Demon, Aide de Camp third,
a length and a half away. Carmen de-
feated Gladiator by a head for the belling
Plate, Pinafore third; and Lord of the Lake
won the Squatters' Handicap easily from Eva, As-
cot third. The weather was beautifully fine for
the third day’s racing. Olga defeated Le Beau by
a couple of lengths in the Suburban Handicap,
Soldier Boy third. Rosinante won the Grand Stand
Plate by a nose from Bayard, Boniface third. In
the Craven Plate, Le Grand led into the straight,
and looked like an easy winner, but Ike came with
a rush, and Jones had to draw his whip on Le
Grand, who answered to the call and won a grand
race by a neck. Segenhoe, three lengths away,
third. First Demon appropriated the A.J.L.
(Mare's) Produce Stakes, half a length away from
Olga, Kingsdale third; and chicken-hearted
Yately, getting well away at the start for
the Sydney Handicap, was never headed, and
won with the greatest of ease from Norman,
The Joker third. The concluding day, Saturday,
was line and the attendance large. Baalhsk won
the Hurdle Race easily from War Eagle, Uhlan
third. The unthought-of Delusion appropriated
the Members’ Handicap, Ike second, and Wallan-
gra 3. Le Grand romped home the winner ol the
Randwick Plate, Sardonyx, a couple of lengths
away, second, the Gem third. The Waverley Han-
dicap fell to Lord of the Lake, a length away from
Gloucester, the Drummer third. Songster had the
Steeplechase well in hand, but King went the
wrong course, and the race fell to Shamrock, who
beat Wrangler by a ueck, Parade third; and Albert
Victor appropriated the last race of the meeting,
the Free Handicap, by a bare half head from
Yately, Hypatia a good third.
Judging from the lively stories Charles
Mitchell gulled the American press with, it would
seem that he would not object to his name being
handed down to posterity amongst the list ot re-
markable men who have figured in the squared
circle. But Charley’s aspirations received a severe
knock when “Pendragon,” of the Referee, stated
that the pugilist’s paternal parent was porter at a
medical college, in p ace of tutor, as Mitchell in-
formed the American interviewers. While we are
on the subject of remarkable “ knockers-out,’
perhaps a short sketch oi John Gully may not be
out of place. In his early days a Bristol butcher s
apprentice, John Guliy found his way to London,
lost all ho had, and when only just out of bis teens,
woke up one morning to tind himself a prisoner
for debt in the Fleet. Hen Pearce, the Game
Chicken,” who defeated Jem Belcher, after the
latter had lost his eye, heard of Gully’s incarcera-
tion, and, as at that time It was thought none but
Bristol men could fight, he took a set of gloves to
the Fleet and induced Gully to spar with him,
which ended in Pearce proposing that Gully should
tight him in a 34-feet ring. “ Thou’t get thy liberty
lad, but at the same time a good thrashing.” Gully
agreed, and one of Pearce’s patrons released him
from the prison. A match was made, the
“Chicken ’’ laid 600 guineas to 400 guineas on him-
self, and the battle was fought on 8th October,
1805, when Pearce defeated the novice after fifty-
nine desperate rounds, occupying seventy minutes
—a slight contrast to the present knocking-out in
three or tour rounds with soft gloves. Gully’s
next fight was with Bob Gregson, the Lancashire
champion, on Oct. 14,1807. Gully was 6ft. in height
Gregson two inches taller. The hitting was tre-
mendous, nearly every round ending in a knock-
down, and Gully just won. Gregson was not
satisfied, and another meeting was arranged f or on
8th May, when Gully again won, and was acknow-
ledged champion of England. His fights with
Gregson placed him in funds, and he left the ring
to take to bookmaklng. The best commissions
were given him to execute, and so well off was he
that he gave Lord Jersey 4000 guineas for Mame-
luke, who had just won the Derby. The bargain
was struck on the first day of Ascot, but it was so
secret that Gully obtained 10,000 to 1000 from Crock-
ford that Mameluke won the Leger. At the same
time, he laid Cnckford 10,000 that Mameluke beat
ton different horses, and 10,000 that he beat nine..
But, unfortunately for Gully, Matilda was in both,
lots. The chronicler of the time states that the
starter was got at. He repeatedly refused to let
his field go. Mameluke was upset by the numerous!
false starts. Chifnoy, who was riding him, liadj
Mameluke's head turned round the wrong way
when the flag fell, whilst Matilda was 70 yards or so
ahead of him. Mameluke ran a grand horse, but he
was blocked in the straight, and Matilda won by
half a length. Gully lost thirty thousand by the
result, but he was the first in the rooms on set-
tling night. In 1833, whilst in confederacy with
“Bobby Ridsdale,” tho latter’s horse, St. Giles,
won the Derby, and Gully’s own horse, Margrave,
won the Leger. At this time Mr. Gully was the
leading member of Tattersall’s, and it was said
that he and Mr. Ridsdale took £105,000 out of tho
ring between them over the Derby and Leger with
St. Giles and Margrave. After the latter’s victory
the confederacy was dissolved. It was in this
year that John Gully went in for parliamentary
honours, and was returned for the borough of
Pontefract. He obtained everybody’s goodwill in
Parliament, and when he did speak his periods
were as trenchant as his hands had been in another
arena. He was very successful on the turf. In
1846 he won his first Derby with Pyrrhus the First,
and eight years after he took his second Derby
with Andover. The remarkable subject of this
sketch died at his seat, Corkin Hall, near Durham,
on 0th March, 1863.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At West Maitland, M. O’Brien and E. Nash
matched to run 00 yards tor £30 trophy, Nash con-
cedes 1% yards’ start... In re the Murphy-Frank
walking match, young: Frank’s lather has asked
for an extension of time owing to his son being: a
shade “off-colour.” The following: Clubs have
entered lor the Btedmau Junior Cup:—The Lis-
more, Redfern, Oriental, Victoria, Marrickville,
Kingston, Waverley, Conservative, Balmain, Wara-
tah, Ivanhoe, West Sydney, Cambridge, Surrey
United, Carthona, Croydon, Stanley, Oxford, Pyr-
mont Excelsior, Osborne, Our Boys, and Alliance.
The first match will be played on Saturday next.
M’Derrnott walked 60 miles in 8hrs 44mln at
the Oddfellows Hall, Goulburn, on Saturday —
The Gem was almost as friendless in Melbourne as
he was in Sydney, and in one totalisator there £73
to 5s. for a win, and £39 to the same amount for a
place, were advertised as payable about him
The Bendigo (Vic.) J.C. has reduced the member-
ship fee from £100 to £35 MoTernan and Frier
matched to run in October, for £50 a side—Colley
has ridden three Sydney Derby winners—Wood-
lands in ’77, Nellie in ’79, and Le Grand in ’83
Kobert A. Sinclair, the coxswain of the C.Q.K*
Club, Rockhampton, is an aquatic Archer. Hois
10 years of age, and has piloted nine races, in all of
which his boat won 150 yards’ footrace on the
tapis between Edward Sutton and James Gibson,
£100 a side... .Mr. Hunter Smith, of the Manly C.C.,
last season averaged 53.8 runs for 35 innings (six
not out).... C. S. Agnew’s action against the Tas-
manian Turf Club has been amicably arranged.
Mr. A. withdrew his hasty words, and the club
agreed to withdraw his disqualification. Each side
pay their own costs. . .Messrs. Hill, Hardwick, and
Lewin, mounted respectively on a “ bike,” a
“ trike,” and a horse, recently journeyed from
Mudgee to Gulgong and back, 43 miles. While on
the road they travelled at the rate of seven miles
an hour. The equine showed the worst condition.
First Water, the Adelaide horse, has been
backed to win the Melbourne Cup for £43,000
Le Grand’s winnings at Tattersall’s amount to a
trifle over £3000, of which amount the Metrop.
fetched him £1009.
• ■
T. F. Grant (known ns the one-legged
dancer) swam a distance of 85 feet under water at,
the Cincinnati natatorlum on June 15—Henry*
Dunn, the heavyweight wrestler, of Dearhajn,
England, has arrived in America. He is 33 years
of age and weighs 310 lbs. He is considered the
champion of the Cumberland and Westmoreland
styles of wrestling... .Afloat and Ashore; is the
title of a new English sporting paper— At Prince
of Wales Ground, Bow, England, in a walking
match Baby defeated Hancock for £15 and Hume *
Championship Cup....Harry G. Follett, of Rich-
mond (Eng.) winner of Doggett’s Coat and Badge
for ’83 .The following is the wonderful record
of Iroquois, the successful horse that carried
Pierre Lorlllard’s colours on the English turf. He
won the Levant Stakes for two-year-olds in 1880,
In the same year he won the Two-year-old Stakes
at the Goodwood, Newmarket, and Epsom meet-
ings, and in J881 he had a walk over for the Three-
year-old Stakes. He then achieved enduring
tame by winning the Derby, the Prince of Wales
Stakes at Ascot, the St. James Palace Plate at the
same meeting, the St. Leger Stakes at Doncaster,
and two or three other races. He did not run lust
year, and this year he was beaten at Ascot, but
won the Stockbridge Cup on Thursday, June 31..,.
A member of the Kenosha (Wis.) Canoe Club,
recently did a bit of novel canoeing. During
floods at Kansas city he got in tow of a locomotive
and was whisked along tor a couple of miles at the
rate of 30 knots an hour. At least, so says a
Yankee paper... In the race at Columbus, O., for
the championship of the State (6 days, 4 hours a
day), which closed at midnight, June 30, Cox, of
Columbus, was an easy winner, making, 170 miles 5
laps. Score for the 34 hours, 4 hours a day : Cox,
170 miles 5 laps; Burns, 138 miles Slaps; Clow, 97
miles 31 laps " Smoky” Bishop and Dick Gasden,
both of whom hailed from Groetlwich, fought fo
£10 near London. Odds of 0 to 4 were laid on
Gasden, but after 18 rounds had been fought in
50 minutes, Bishop knocked his man out with a
righthander on the jaw, and won the battle....
E. Jones, of Islington (Eng.), the well-known pro-
fessional ten miles ex-champion runner, recently
died, a victim to consumption —At the Windsor
(Eng.) July meeting, W. A. Long’s two-year-old
filly, The Witch, ran third in both the Berkshire
Plate and the Buckingham Plate Dominick
M’Caffrey, of Pittsburg, who beat Jimmy Ryan,
of Philadelphia, is out to box or fight any man
in America, barring Sullivan, tor £300 a side
At Boi ie. Col., June 13, John Hambieton, six feet
in height and weighing 1001b, carried a man on
his back weighing 1501b, and rati 100 yards against
Daniel Court for $40, i ourt winning in 33 seconds.
It is not so stated, but we presume Coun also cai-
riedaman... . W. S. Hart, the American amateur
walker, won the two miles handicap at the Soi th
Norwood Athletic Club sports (Eng). Hart hud
5 sec. start, and won in 15min. 45sec. His walking
was none of the best, and by all accounts he should
have been disqualified; but the Judge no doubt
leaned to mercy and only cautioned him, on ac-
count of his being a stranger The mile profes-
sional walking championship was decided at Bow
Grounds on July 3rd, in the presence of a large
attendance of spectators. There were ten com-
Eetitors, but the race resolved itself into a match
etween Raby and Rostock, the latter of whom
won by 30 yards in 6mln. *
The Butchers’ Strike (soliloquy at the block) Twenty American butchers here.
More foreign artists. Why, what’s the country coming to t


F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMR.
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
TOT ALL FURNITURE
11 CHAIRS, LARGE j
Newton, and Lamb.
ton, and Lamb, Furniture importere!^r?n’» N#w *
O’Connell streets, Sydney. ’ Bprln «f m
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, In
taste, the very latest fashion ; well
Inspection. unny 0 ;
WALL CABINETS for
VERY ELEGANT, just received
JNewton, and Lamb. "oauey,
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and
SUITES. Bradley. Newton, and '° W
O’Connell-street.
Lamb,
Afternoon tea tables, elegant and
pensive. BRADLEY,NEWT^r^diiSJ^
O’Connell-street.
M
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG R a xm
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restau^
smoking rooms, &c.
B
8 fee
ILLIARD TABLES, full size, with
*—* ances ; also smaller Convertible TablefL
feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on\ £r
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Imported.
and O’Connell streets, Sydney, ’ Sprln «
OBDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest
L3 LEY, NEWTON, and LAMfc,
’ConneU-street. ’ mporten ,
BEDROOM SUITES complete in
and very handsome designs, with it,
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobe
and
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising
•hoof HronroiKi j* .
eaad
LEY,
robe, ehest drawers, washstand, dressln
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. m
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
VMOVD) Aiivili W/O, L U IT V31 Oy i. XU III • W Oak
stands, from lOsfld: Tables, from 7s 6d:
from 80s; Diping Tables, from 20s; 6edar ChifS
nlers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from TftT
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Table* wl
LEV F &ON! h —'™ MS
streets, Sydney.
, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
85s.
BRADLEY
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Furniture.— The Largest stock m me
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
URNITURE.—The Largest Stock In
xRAWING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,
oendale designs.
Furn:
streets
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE. - Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
hoards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
Framework for drawing and dining
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and MaseRa
In Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
B
EDSTE ADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamp.
Bedding.
BRADLEY,
nell-street.
—All descriptions at lowest ratei.
,EY, NEWTON, and LAMB, 0 Con-
VV
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25seach,
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
IirId-
Gr
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chalrs.-Brftd-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-strect^
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Lf Assortment just opened; many quite ne i
Bslyna. —-
3CCASIONAL CHAIRS in VERY GREAT
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o. f Braoi j,
ewton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street. -
3FFICB FURNITURE, WRITING
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
nd Lamb, O’Connell-street.
[RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEK-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’ConneUBtrw
2JTBINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FIN®’
in the world. A SHIPMENT Just landed^
55 GUINEA PIANO. WARRANTED sound
SO and durable, in solid walnut case, spe cuww
dapted for beginners or schools. , T a wb.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, andLA-"°„
)AOUINEA PIANO, brillianttoned, full com-
jU pass, all the latesti m P™ L®,? e Q nnND and
ome walnut case ; WARRANTED SOUND
)URABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade. ,.g
F IPP ’8 CELEBRATED PIANO 8.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received _
another LARGE SHIPMENT
I, LTPP and SONS’ celebrated
pianofortes
Irect from the Makers, comprising gA-
1 RANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT tM
,OON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME ana
IIGHB8T CLASS FINISH,
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
W" WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
FOR PRIVATE
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
IVATE SALE AT EXTREMES*
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring ftroea.
SOCIAL.
On Wednesday, Sept. 6th, that long and
anxiously-expected ball eventuated at Govern-,
ment House. The vice-regal festivities are, like
angels’ visits, few and far between; but when a
hospitable gathering doth occur, justice compels
the admission that it is generally a success; and
that of Wednesday was no exception to the rule.
A large number of guests assembled at the invita-
tion of the Governor and his Lady, and many were
the heartburnings of those unhappy ones left out.
At ten o’clock the reception rooms presented a
gay appearance, and pretty girls and lovely dresses
wore in abundance—the latter especially so, owing
to the latest freak of fashion. The naval element
was well represented, most of the officers of the
ships at present in port being well to the fore,
brass buttons and all; and as these heroes of the
sea are usually favourites with the fair sex, it is to
be presumed they had a good time. Most of the
faces well known in Sydney society were to be seen,
as also a lew debutantes, who looked shy though
happy, and quite inclined to enjoy themselves
and their new dignity of being “just out.” Most
of the young lolks busily patronised the “light
fantastic toe, while portly dowagers and smiliug-
visaged papas, in the intervals of their visits to the
supper room, devoutly hoped the poor girls would
not be quite tired out to-morrow. In the ballroom
Sir John Hay, of benign countenance, did a low
square dances. The pensive Burdett effected much
execution in a quiet way; the Hon. G. Ragar
looked placidly on, but not so his lively, piquant
little daughter, who, tastefully attired in cream
and cardinal, was indefatigable in the giddy whirl.
The colossal form of the Colonial Treasurer loomed
in the distance, with a tall brunette on one arm,
and on the other a lady in white and pale pink.
Mrs. G. K. Bibbs appeared in a stylish combination
of rich black satin, Spanish lace, and delicate
flowers: one of her daughters looked nice in
very pale sea-green nun’s veiling, with bodice and
panler of the same shaded satin, and pink roses.
A petite blonde in cerulean blue, with orbs of the
same bewitching hue, looked brightly attractive :
while a raven-hairod lassie in white silk, dotted all
over with cerise pompons, posed in an attitude of
grace, and busily filled her programme oblivious
to all else. Mrs. M’Phlllamy (the bride of the sea-
son) looked lovely, as usual, and was beautifully
costumed. The fair intended of a distinguished
foreign savant hovered near, on the arm of “ Sir
John,” who seemed “in clover' 1 among the
numerous bright eyes. Lady Augustus wore a
handsome trained dress, and her agreeable and
courteous air made everyone feci at home, all
stiffness being dispensed with. The son of the
house was absent—gone, so says rumour with its
busy tougue, to other climes on matrimonial ven-
ture intent. Three o’clock in the morning saw
most of the guests departed, or departing. Part
of the grounds had been enclosed, and lit up with
coloured lamps having a pretty effect; there
were also plenty of seats in retired nooks and
secluded corners, where little flirtations were
carried on with vigour, and soft nothings whis-
pered to the accompaniment of a good b-i.iu whose
delicious music rose and fell in the distance.
• * •
Very small attendances graced the Rand-
wick lawn on Tuesday and Thursday last week,
and but little novelty in costumes. A pretty
Spring toilet was all of white linen, with waistband
and sash of old gold ribbon, hat trimmed with
white ribbon and spray of flowers. A peculiar
toilet was composed entirely of flounces of ficelle
lace, parasol to match. If there was one thing
moro than another noticeable during the whole
meeting, it was wind. All four days the blowing
continued more or less hard or cold; Saturday was
the calmest day, and most genial, and it afforded
the best show. The Governor, Lady Loftus, and
suite arrived early and stayed till late, and the
Headquarters’ Band played some of its most ex-
quisite music. At times the lawn was well filled
with promenaders. A ruby velvet panier bodice,
with satin skirt of same colour in three pleated
flounces, was pretty, worn with a straw bonnet and
ruby badge in front. This was a popular style of
toilet. Most dresses had either the three pleated
flounces under full paniers. or else long pleatings
the entire length of skirt. A “ shot” pearl-coloured
dress was grand in its glistening and changing
hues; a garnet body and tails with gold figur-
ing, was over a skirt where the garnet alter-
nated with drab cloth; a rich dark green
was of cloth body, and alternate cloth and
velvet in skirt. From North Shore was a
check silk of sorrel brown with cardinal waist-
band, and jockey hat. From Ashfleld, two sisters
all in black cashmere faultlessly made with double-
breasted bodices, one showing a chemisette front,
the other a snowy handkerchief tucked in the
side; parasols and Langtry hats were black; narrow
white collars and white kid gloves. The costumes
were simply perfect—one cannot say anything
more than that. From Petersham, a married lady
in a rich toilet, body and bunching of moss-green
ottoman, skirt of moss-green and sorrel striped
silk combined, cunningly bunched ail over and
docked with ribbons, parasol to match. From
Ashfleld, a very fine costume all of peacock blue,
trimmed with same chenille, under a blush pink
parasol. Several pure whites were sec off with
waist ribbons of crushed strawberry, cardinal, and
hay-green; and a nice dress was of the latest new
blue, “cornflower.” A favourite little actress
wore body and paniers of cigar-brown satin, brown
bonnet and buttercups, and fawn figured skirt ,
trimmed with ficelle lace. Avery brilliant dress
was of fraise frais nun’s-veiling edged with white
lace; and one of the most prominently handsome
figures was garbed in a zephyr cloth of autumn
red, or tile colour, with white lace on the
breast and edging the flaps, badge of red
on the bonnet. Another was wholly of
mashed raspberry, falling in long quiet folds,
and worn with a dark green straw bonnet,
trimmed with mignonette. A very stylish ar-
rangement of white satin, with bunches of bright
flowers all over it; a pouf of cream lace sprang
from under the basque, settings of lace round the
hero, and scattered about were bunches of
autumn-tinted ribbons; bonnet of foliage, edged
with yellow cream roses. Good taste was shown
in the combination of a green chock satin top, over
a dark green cloth skirt; also in a silver grey top
over black satin skirt. The form of a little bru-
nette was perfectly fitted with a white dress of
brooW satin body, and flowered skirt of brochd
grenadine, with black waist ribbon and bonnet-
one of the neatest and prettiest toilets shown.
A beautifully bright afternoon gave a chance for
these and many more handsome specimens of dress
to be shown advantageously, and well-watered
roads enabled the journey to and from Uandwick
to be made almost free from dust.
• * •
The Wellesley Football Club, which is a
young one, held its second annual ball last Friday
at the Burwood School of Arts, which had been
ornamented with much care. The display of gar-
lands, woven foliage and flowers, was pretty; two
largo footballs were suspended from th« centre of
the hall, with streamers of blue ribbon passing
across them, and a small shopful of footballs had
been lavished at intervals on the walls. Among
the ladies present, some score or more were
splendid dancers, and the others good; but the
supply was scarcely sufficient, and so a number of
young gentlemen around the door had to live
in a state of hopeful expectancy, and one
end of the room was lined during part
of the evening by what looked like a
“ great mass meeting of the unemployed.”
The floor was scrupulously polished, and three ex-
cellent musicians came from town to play ; so
many a clover girl, “ whose feet beneath her petti-
coat like little mice stole in and out,” had a chance
to make her partner happy. Most of these part-
ners were distinctly youthful—even more so (if
the treasonable statement may be made) than the
ladies—and the disparity in stature was sometimes
very striking. Dresses wore pretty and graceful,
but some so extremely amplitudinous in their
dimensions as to almost obscure the lady’s dapper
partner from view. A capital supper was pro-
vided by Mr. Cripps in a separate room, and after
a tew guests had departed by the late train, the re-
mainder finished the programme of twenty-five
dances by early morning, and voted It a cheery
ball. For a young club, the affair was managed in
g liberal apd very spirited style.
A fashionable wedding took placo at Ash-
field on the afternoon of tha 4th Sept., that of Miss ,
Peate to Mr. Pope, both of that suburb. The
bride wore a very handsome Ivory brochi\ very
lone 1 train, and trimmed with rich lace. Four brides-
maids appeared, one wearing cream satin trimmed
with old gold chenille fringe ; the other young
ladies looking charming In cream sateen and
crushed Strawberry sashes ; hats to match. The
happy bride’s mother wore a rich prune satin
robe, and cream bonnet. Of the guests, a fair
lady in black satin embossed with flowers, black
bonnet and shaded feathers, and another lady in
pale blue, with white straw bonnet and blue
feathers, were noticeable and admirable. Honey-
moon to the mountains, and thence to Melbourne.
» * ♦
The Dukp of Edinburgh Lodge held a
Masonic Ball in the new Oddfellows’ Hall, Ooal-
burn, on Sept. 7. Dancing from 9 till 4.30, to the
sweet music of violin, flute, piano, and cornet.
There was an excellent attendance, and the com-
mittee, who worked hard, reaped the reward of
satisfaction, Sundry devices were hung on the
walls, and dainty delicacies adorned the tables.
The belle, a local lass, was in pale green and silver
spangles ; and the next divinity was a Junee
maiden in cream satin and cardinal flowers. A tall
young lady of Auburn-streot, and a fair young
lady In peacock blue, were gay and graceful. A
terra cotta silk cott-a lot of admiration; and a fair
siren in rose-pink satin displayed an amount of
unveiled charms that filled the Goulburn youths
with all sorts of Byronio yearnings.
* * *
A Masquerade Ball was held in Warwick
Hall, Newcastle, on the 5th September. The hall
was decorated with bunting and greens galore, and
music supplied by G. Lennon and Co., to every-
one’s satisfaction. Twenty-four dances were done,
and an attractive supper helped the doing. Mis*
A. Flynn as a German Girl, and Miss K. Smith as
Scotch Lass, Miss M. Smith as Nancy Lee, and Miss
Padmore as Coquette, were chief and charming
characters. An Alsatian Peasant, Fortune Teller.
Snow, Skater, Turkish Lady, and Roman Shell
Girl wore also good; and the honours of the even-
ing were contested between a tall Gipsy Dancer
and Folly, who was married. Of the male charac-
ters, Mr. Burns ns a Gentleman of the Ifith Cen-
tury, a Royal Jester, and others, were goed. About
4 a.m. the cloak room was cleared.
• • •
A very pleasant party was given by Mrs.
Lawson at Glebe Point, last week, to some 60
friends. The medical profession was well repre-
sented; and amongst the fair ones were two lled-
myre sisters, in all cream with white flowers, ex-
cellent dancers; a married lady from Bourko-
street, in a rich black satin and silver; a beautiful
pale bine brochS and high lace ruffle, from Vic-
toria-street; a pale pink silk trimmed with white
lace and pearls, ana wreath of daisies; and two
gold satins, trimmed with gold pompadour brooh6
and pink roses. The hostess, who wore black
broch6 with jet and cream roses, made the evening
a pleasant one, and 24 dances brought three o’clock,
and a break-up of the party.
• • •
On Friday last, the Bachelors’ Assembly
took place at Needs’s, when about 100 were present;
but, somehow, there were rather too many bashful
bachelors on hand, consequently ladies not in the
magic circle sat still a good deal. Dresses were
mostly good. A young lady with abundance of
dark hair wore a pretty fawn satin, the front of
skirt embellished with rows of narrow white lace
flounces. A cream satin trimmed with white lace,
and well-fitting jacket of prune velvet, was also
becoming to the wearer. A pair of brunettes were
noticeable: one in cardinal and cream satin with
extensive hip paniors; the other in ruby cashmere
caught up on either side with two large buckles,
large back row of black moire, black velvet body
and trimmings to match. But right away the best
dress was a rleh black silk, trimmed with moire,
passementerie and bugles, worn by a lady from
Summer Hill. There were at least a dozen whites
of various materials. Music was, of course, Al.
The next Assembly is on the 2oth of this month.
• • •
A very quiet afternoon was spent on the
Association Ground lost Saturday by those who
patronised the Rugby Union sports; too quiet, in
fact, for there was no band, and the unaccustomed
stillness made the proceedings seem “slow.” It
was a curious omission; it has become so well re-
cognised now that people go to enjoy the eom-
pany, the fashions, and the music, quite as much
as the sports, that success can hardly be hoped for
without the inevitable band. And fine weather’s,
of course, necessary for line feathers to be shown.
A good afternoon may be expected next Saturday,
when the E.S.A.A. Club sports are sure to result in
good athletic struggles, and crowds of beauty to
witness them.
♦ * •
Next Wednesday, a eompllmentary ball
will be tendered by his past and present pupils to
Mr. F. H. Needs, at Nithsdale. Mr. Needs has taught
many hundreds the graceful art In Sydney, and
there are hundreds more who would be consider-
ably improved if he had taught them, too.
• * *
About 150 gentlemen gave a farewell ban-
quet in the School of Arts, Orange, to Mr. James
Dalton, on the 30tb August, prior to his departure
for Europe. Visitors were from many and distant
places; the chair was filled by Mr. J. C. M'Lachlan,
and the vice-cnairs by Messrs B. Nelson and G.
W. Waddell. Mr. Dalton's life of industry for
many years in Orange, his domestic and commer-
cial relations, and public services, were com-
mended by speakers, and ho was presented with
an address in the form of an emblazoned album,
with views of the Sydney and Orange warehouses,
and his own residence of Duntryleague. Among
the speakers were the Hon. J, smith, M.L.C., and
Messrs. Ferguson and T. Dalton, M.'sP. The
Volunteer Band played the train off on the 3rd,
and on the 6th September Mr. Dalton left for
home in the Zoalannia. Mr. W. Redmond was also
a passenger, to Auckland.
* ♦ •
The Hon. G. H Reid entertained the
school inspectors and a few other gentlemen by a
harbour trip on Friday afternoon, in tho smart
little steam launch Nea, to mark tho end of the
Con erence. There were no formal speeches, the
programme consisting mostly of chatter and
ozone.
• i «
Bourke had an Oddfellows’ Ball a few
days ago, when over five score dancers whirled
till five o’clock brought daylight near. Carney's
supper, a fair floor, and several extra dances
helped the ladies to make the affair attractive.
Mrs. Strickland, Mrs. G. Grant, Misses M’Kay,
Bachelor (this name la a standing reproach to
Bourke beaux), and Tigho (this 1* lu itself a broad
hint), wore in tho top ekws of holies, but many
drosses ware pretty.
• • •
It will bo a great flower gala at Manly on
Fridny and Saturday. Busy hands have been kept
at picking and stealing nature’s treasures for
many miles round, and some of the tteral devices
will surpass anything yet seen in the colony when
tho show opens. 81x steamers are on, and will ran
both days every hour from 11.36 till 3.30. Last boat
from Manly will be nine on Friday, and ten on
Saturday night.
• • •
On Wednesday, last week, at St. Clement’s,
Vass, Mr. T. Besnard led to tho altar Miss Annie,
daughter of the late Mr. R. C. M’Intosh (manager
of A.J.8. Bank there). The bridesmaids were
Misses Katie M’Intosh, Winnie Besnard, Disey
Conroy, and Eleanor Besnard, two in cream and
two in white nun’s veiling, sashes and shoulder
knots. Mr. J. Geddes, of Sydney, was best man,
and Mr. O. Poplin gave away the bride, who wore
ivory brochd and cashmere with Spanish lace.
The wedding breakfast was at Mr. Poplin’s house,
where a large number of friends gathered. Train
in the afternoon to Goulburn, thence to Bathurst
for hoReymopq.
On Tuesday, 4th September, Mr. J. E.
Redmond, M.P., was wedded at 8t. Mary’s,
North Shore, to Miss Johanna Mary Dalton,
of Sydney (sister to Mr. Thomas Dalton, M.P.)
Arches of foliage and flags wore erected
outside the church, and inside wreaths, bouquets,
garlands, and local beauty filled the place, and
many visitors from other suburbs were well re-
paid for their journey to see the ceremony. It
was a little late, but at 11.30 a.m. the bridal party
appeared, and the busy talking hushed to rustling
whispers as they filed up the walk to the decorated
altar, ablaze with lights and flowers. The cere-
mony was lengthy, and plentiful opportunities
were afforded to notice the airy self-possession of
the bridegroom as he placidly followed through
the proceedings, as unconcerned in mien as
anyone in the building; and many glances of
admiration fell on the bride’s finely grown
figure, garbed in a beautiful ivory white
satin trimmed with duchess lace and blossoms.
Her four bridesmaids, Miss Dalton (Orange), Misses
Nellie and Blanche Dalton (Sydney), and Miss Con-
don, of Wheatleigh, all wore white cashmere with
crushed strawberry silk trimmings and lace.
Among those present wore a great number of
reverend fathers (FatherThomas Walsh officiated),
Messrs. Thomas, James, M, J. J., G., J. P., and
Verv Rev. J. Dalton. Mr. F. B. Preehill, Mr. John
Kenny, and Mr. W. Redmond, M.P. Mrs. Mein,
from Brisbane, was attired in white silk, and Mrs.
T. Dalton in a beautiful satin with Limerick lace,
and many fine dresses were seen among the visi-
tors. wedding breakfast at Wheatleigh, where
the customary toasts were spoken and drunk, and
at 4 p.m., Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Redmond drove off to
the railway for their happy honeymoon amid the
sequestered shades of Moss Vale.
♦ * *
At Qunnedah on the 4th, there was a very
pretty wedding; that of Miss O’Hara, sister
of the Telegraph Master and of the Inspec-
tor of C.P.’s, to Mr. West, the Forest Ranger. The
church was prettily decorated, and was crowded.
The bride wore cream satin, orange blossoms, veil,
etc. She had seven bridesmaids: two sisters in
pink satin and white lace, three in cream,
and two small girls in blue. Among the
guests were Mrs. Cohen, In black broche:
Mrs. Iredale, in a beautiful costume of
black broche velvet and satin; Mrs. Winter in
cardinal silk trimmed with satin same colour. Mrs.
Turner, in blue velvet, looked a picture; her hat
was blue satin with long white feather. Wedding
breakfast, held in the School of Arts, was a great
sncccss. The practice of showering rice on the
happy pair tmidr the church, I should imagine to
be highly objectionable. There was a ball in the
evening, also at the School of Arts, in celebration of
the event, at which there were about one hundred
guests, including visitors from surrounding sta-
tions. Amongst the most noticeable costumes
were Mrs. Iredale’s black broche trimmed with
gold braid; Mrs. Turner’s very tasteful pale blue
silk with silver flowers: the Misses Cohens’ cream
cashmere trimmed with satin ; Mrs. Nash’s pale
blue, with lace draped across front; Miss Hyman’s
cream silk, pale pink trimming, very stylishly
made. Miss Gabriel, finest figure in the room,
pink; Mrs. Treacher, black silk cut square in front.
Miss Davis looked very nice in black satin; Miss
Rigney, white cashmere and satin; Miss Ashton,
pale blue silk, with profusion of white lace; Miss
O’Hara, pink satin. Opinions divided as to belle,
the palm for dancing being given to a small fairy
in white, A Cinderella dance was given by Mrs.
O’Hara on the following Wednesday evening; and
on Thursday the visitors entertained the towns-
folk until too small hours on Friday, with good
music and dancing and every attention.
♦ * * *
Among the Kiama pleasantries lately,
were a lawn-tennis party given by Mr. and Mrs. G.
of “Dunmore,” followed by an elaborate
tea and two hours dancing; and a dance party given
by Mrs. Whlttingham, with good music and supper,
ending at 2 a.m A Northern parson was
drubbed the other day by a young man, who ac-
cused him of coupling the names of two young
people in such a way as they should never be, un-
less the young people are coupled themselves —
A chess tournament with animated pieces, takes
place this week in Auckland, for a church fund,
when similar tournaments have taken place in
Petropaulovskl, Pitcairn’s Island, and a few other
places, someone will be seized with the brilliant
and new idea of having one in Sydney—Last
week at Tingha Miss Dean became Mrs. John
Grove, at St. Augusilne’s Church, and wore cream
satin and lace. After a wedding breakfast at Mrs.
Hasklng’s hotel, their numerous friends dispersed,
leaving the happy couple Tlngha-ling with delight
. ..On the same day, at the Church of England
there, the organist persuaded Miss Minnie
Smith to change that popular name and be-
come Mrs. W. H. G. Parsons. It required two
parsons to bring about the change The
Mudgee benedicts give a return ball to the
bachelors on 27th Inst Commodore Erskine has
asked for two more men-of-war on the Australian
station. It is almost impossible to 1 ully officer any
ballroom with the present supply, and the conse-
quence is that really good waltzing lieutenants are
fearfully overworked. ..Prof. West gives his
monthly Cinderella Party to-night, Thursday —
There are three fashionable marriages on the tavis
in Kiama district A hundred guests accepted
the Invite of Mr, and Mrs. W. H. M’Cann to a ball
at the Terminus Hotel, North Bundaberg (Q.), on
the 27th August, and passed a pleasant night. ..
... Townsville Bachelors’ Ball, just past, was a
very good one, and some of the ladies’ dresses
ravishing....Martin Luther’s birthday is to be
celebrated in Melbourne. For the benefit of
suburban aldermen, it may be observed that
Luther died some years ago—Maitland Rowing
Club will soon have a ball Return Ball to Mr.
Iceton, Mayor of Yass, on the 5th October—Sir
Patrick Jennings’ bell to the performing members
of the Liedertafel falls on Wednesday, the 26th
inst. We understand Sir Patrick invites about
two-thirds, and Mr. Hugh George one-third of the
guests, and the affair will be very reeherchi —
Last week, in the Liverpool Town Hall, the local
cricket club was benefited by a concert, followed
by a dance, but ladles were scarce. A pleasant
dance was also held there on the 5th when some 60
visitors enjoyed the music of piano and violin,
also of plates and glasses, for several hours
People cau’t be too careful with those copying
pencils. A married hian lately wrote a lady’s
address on his shirt cuff, and afterwards smudged
it over, as he thought, beyond recognition. Wn.n
his garment came from the laundry, that lady’s
address was observed to be still therein beautifully
vivid purple characters. Family jars... An inter-
esting wedding last month was that at St. Mary’s
R.C. Church, Dandenong Road (Melb.) of Miss
Charlotte Wallscourt Kelly, youngest daughter
of the late John Kelly, Police Magistrate at Denill-
quin, to Mr. J. N. Parkes of Townsville (Q.) The
lady, in cream satin and brochfe, was attended by
six maids in cream nun’s veiling and satin.
Couple eame hither The fine ship Samuel
Plinasoll is to be the flngboat for Snails’ Bay re-
Satta this Saturday, and there will be adanceon
oard, to the music of a band. Mr. Ainsworth is
bent on making things pleasant Next Wednes-
day, the "Socials” party, who have held their
regular dances for a long time past at Mrs. Martin’s
Academy, will Indulge in a plain and fancy ball.
Mr. P. B. Wynter is hon. secretary —None of the
Sydney Bikeaen have yet started Club balls.
They hare been customary over the border for
some time. The Carlton Bicycle Club had their
annual ball a few nights since, and it was quite a
“ nickel-plated ’’ affair, with that noted rider,
Captain Irish, to the front in arranging matters.
Mr. E. T. Gale, journalist, and travelling im-
porter for the papers World and Federal Aus-
tralian, was recently entertained handsomely in
Hobart at a banquet, when the Hon. W. Moore,
Colonial Secretary, and a largo number of press-
men, did him honour. The meat salesmen of
Hobart also had a meeting, and presented Mr.
Gale with some recognition of the services his pen
had rendered them—Mr. Phillips, of Botany-st.,
gave a pleasant party, the other night, to mark the
birthday of his thirteenth son, or bis son’s thir-
teenth birthday—we are not sure which; but, at
any rate, they danced till three o’clock....A man
must wear a skyblue waiptcoat now, if he want# to
$>e truly paphhW


THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS’ COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES.
TRADE MARK REGISTERED
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
Intending Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
Should Write to Us or Call on Us.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB.
As we have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLUB BICYCLES and
TRICYCLES, we never fail to give
purchasers the best satisfaction.
We have permission from the loading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer inquirers
as to the merits of our machines to
them, and we shall take pleasure in
doing this whenever requested, as their
good recommendation has already sold
for us a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine.
SPECIAL AGENCY:
THE IMPERIAL CLUB
THE CHEYLESMORE CLUB.
Jut: Mi Si Copy, 383 s “7Ar , H™':.° pp “' ,e
H. P. GREGORY. H. SHAW SMITH. „• 8. W. GREGORY.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
Engineers & MachineryM
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Fay & Co.'s Woodworking Machinery Kortlng’s Injectors
Tanlte Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines Eclipse Windmills
Blake’s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps Sturtovant’s Fans.
A LARGE STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
as well as all
SAW MILL, PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
IT PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TRICYCLES.
JUST ARRIVED, a large shipment of the
celebrated
Excelsior Tricycles,
For Ladies or Gentlemen.
Send for lists and TERMS of Payment.
Repairs executed by experienced Coventry
bicycle makers.
BAYLISS, THOMAS & CO., 68 King Street.
HORDERNS
ON THE
ZBric3s±lelcl HU1
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE URTAINS
II®" These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
1
Everyone heard that the crew of a man-o’-
war boat was kept busy lately pulling the N. S. W.
Hag down from merchantmen's peaks; yet not
everyone knew that a steamer from the neighbour-
hood of Watson’s Bay passed to and fro daily under
the Commodore’s nose, flying that very flag, and —
he didn’t see it.
The journeymen undertakers of Sydney
complain of being overworked. We think the
Legislature should take up their case, and pass a
law prohibiting persons from dying withoutgiving
due notice, on penalty of Imprisonment for life.
Such a law would be quite as valuable as some
others they have passed, and even more charac-
teristic.
One by one the literary lights which
flashed like meteors in our Intellectual firmament
have gone out, or gone off, or gone broke. Among
those who have gone off, is genial, chubby-faced,
cherub-cheeked Hanby, whilom sub-editor of
the Daily Telegraph, for whom we have ever
entertained an affection, which, in its guileless
way was almost childish. Whenever we felt down-
hearted, whenever the world seemed more than
usually hollow, and whisky more than usually bad,
we have gone up to King-street, and watched for
him to come out of his office, so that we might
gladden ourselves by gazing upon him. Merely to
look at him was joy—to speak with him was an
ecstatic pleasure, which bordered so closely upon
delirium that the bystanders could hardly ever
tell the difference. Good nature beamed from his
face, and his girdle was the home of < ontentment,
the dwelling-place of peace and plenty. And now
he has gone away to the Newcastle Morning
Herald.
Mr, DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New wouth
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.— Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as tnis
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable In Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ‘“Arnold's”
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, lo Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs, Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two Arms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlort’s
Hotel.— Advt.
LACE CURTAINS, lOO PRICES.
Ladies residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Kailway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements tor other patterns.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Triah Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered. Table Covers.
Irish Nets, striped and Plain Window Union. 63T Examine carefully the engraving of our
“ LACE CURTAINS.’
I
M
◄
.1
► 5
r*.
«S
: ◄
>:<
>
◄
#5
olgl
?mct™
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO,
are the largest consumers off American
. Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
" position for quality is assigned to their Twist
—Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES.—Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
t3F”D. & 8., Importers of Pipes of every kind. Clears, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries
S
and Flat Tobaccos-
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic stylo.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
EDWARD HORDERN & ,
| LACE CURTAINS j 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS j
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Sydney, 11th September.
DEAR Bei-le,—Of course you will want to know
all about the dance at Government House on the
«ith but there was such an awful crush that it was
no easv matter to distinguish the best dresses
among the crowd. The tremendous trains were a
nuisance and the cause of some tremendous lan-
»ua<re (not loud but deep) among the men who had
to nick their way amid the yards and yards of
drapery. The supper was exquisite In every re-
spect, and as the music was provided by the Nelson
Band, I need not tell you that that also was per-
fect. They played a waltz with singing accora-
naniment. which was lovely. The balcony was
Closed in, and hung with Chinese lanterns. Lady
Augustus Loftus looked stately and imposing in
crimson satin and diamonds. Lady Innes wore black
satin. Mrs. Malleson (Melbourne) who, you know,
dear, is renowned for her beautiful toilettes, had a
black satin train over a petticoat of cream and
e-old the front trimmed with gold pompons. Mrs.
T P Fallon (Melbourne) wore a very handsome
nale blue silk, with richly brocaded facings edged
with cardinal, and with llutings on flounce.
Mrs Henniker Heaton wore a beautiful dress,
ornamented with gold tulle, a head-dress of ostrich
feathers, and splendid diamond necklace. Mrs.
Tooth’s claret coloured satin, with diamonds,
was one of the best dresses Isaw. Mrs Hoffuung s
diamonds were the envy and admiration of every-
one- she wore a magnificent] rivRre worth a small
fortune. A young Jewish lady (one ot the married
daughters of Mr. Montague Levy, I think) had the
front of her dress of cream satin profusely trimmed
with superb point do gaze-another cause of the
sin of envy. Winsome wee Miss Jennie Lee was
charming in cream and pearls, with corsage
wreathed with roses. Of course, in such acrowd
there were some hideous costumes; but if there
were not a few guys to laugh at, one would have
very little tun at those large affairs. The only
drawback to the success of the ball was that there
were more ladies than partners for them, conse-
quently some girls didn’t have a single dance.
The ball given by the Union Club Bachelors at
the Exhibition, on Friday evening last, was a com-
plete success (bachelors’ parties always are, some-
how) The decorations were lovely, the sides of
the building were screened off and arranged as
conservatories. There was no horrid electric light
to show up one’s little attempts at beautifying,
but Instead the softening effect of beautifully
coloured lamps. The music of the City Band was
much admired, and quite a novelty was the intro-
duction of Highland pipers to play the Highland
Schottische. Lady Innes dress on this occasion was
white watered silk and pearls; Mrs. Malleson’s,
cream and gold; Mrs. Smith (wife of Prof. Smith)
wore cream, the front beautifully worked with
flowers in Indian embroidery. Mrs. Sydney Want’s
dress was white and gold. Mrs. J. White wore a
most beautiful dress of white and gold embossed
satin, and Mrs. Laidley Mort an old gold embroi-
dered with iridescent beads. Mrs. Francis Joseph’s
apricot satin was a lovely dress; Mrs. Pilcher’s
peacock velvet, the front embroidered with beetle
wings, splendid; and Mrs. Henry Austin's black,
embroidered with jet, was exceedingly elegant.
Mrs. Tooth wore brown satin with a very long
train; Mrs. G. Knox white embossed silk; Mrs E.
Knox black and maize; and Mrs. Prendergast
black net ..-mbossed with beetle-wings. There
were some beautiful girls at this dance, among
whom Miss De Laurie (Goulburn) was considered
the belle by most people: she wore crushed straw-
berry satin and lace. The next in the order of
beautv wore, I think, Miss Maokellar, in cream,
and Miss Vaillant in white. Miss Lamb wore black.
One of the prettiest and most effective dresses
among the young ladies was that of Miss Austin,
cream satin merveilleux, with oriental scarf. Miss
Suttor (daughter of the Hon. Frank) wore crushed
strawberry. Tan gloves almost universal; tan-
coloured shoes also appeared.
The band of the Nelson have played in the
Botanic Gardens on each Monday of the last two
or three weeks to small and select audiences, com-
posed for the most part of babies and their nurses,
with a few men lying on the grass in various more
easy than elegant attitudes. I don’t think you
would feel much interested in a description of the
costumes of any of the above.
A great many of the new checked zephyr cloths
appeared on the Block on Saturday morning;
some of them very pretty. Velvets have not dis-
appeared yet. I saw one lovely moss-green, which
looked exactly like moss ; I am not quite sure
whether it was plush or velvet. A very notice-
able costume was one of brown satin, with sleeves
and drapery of crimson and yellow striped satin.
An electric blue satin was rich looking, and there
were several handsome dark brown broehes.
If Messrs. Hallewell and Huenerbein continue to
give such good concerts as that of last Saturday
evening, they ought to be well supported. The
programme was excellent, and well carried out.
Mr. Hallewell’s singing of “Nazareth” and the
“ Village Blacksmith,” was worth the admission.
The latter piece was substituted for the “Wolf.”
Mr. Hallewell apologised for the change, as he was
suffering from cold, which, however, was not per-
ceptible to his hearers. The introduction of an
organ accompaniment in that part where the
smith is listening to the choir in the vil-
lage church had a very pretty effect. It 1s
always a pleasure to hear Miss St. Clair;
but with such a glorious voice as hers, I
wonder she is not above those little theatri-
cal tricks which, though appropriate enough
on the stage, seem out of place in a concert-room.
Mr. Beaumont Read gave to the “ Little Hero ”
all the dramatic expression w ich that song re-
quires, and he was encored for “ Please give me a
peppy.” Herr Bernard Tanden hurried “ Let me
love thee ” rather, and the first part was Inaudible.
Mr. Huenerbein played Schulhofl’s “Carnival of
Venice,” which, as every pianoforte player knows,
requires plenty of execution, and a sparkling valse
brillanto of his own composition. Signor Riccardl
sang “Tom Bowling,” and a Mr. Pier, who has a
very sweet tenor voice, took part in “Flow gently,
Deva," with Mr. Hallewell, and afterwards sang
“ 1 heard a voice ” (Pinsuti). I hope to hear him
again. Miss Dora Brown was much more success-
ful in the “Last Rose of Summer ” than in “ Lo,
hear the gentle lark ” at the previous She
sang as encore “ I’m but a simple peasant girl.” If
Sydney people don’t patronise these concerts, they
don’t deserve to be provided wilh good music at
moderate prices.
And now, dear, I think you have had a fair dose
of dances and dresses. Don’t forget that tan
gloves are the thing for evenings, and, if you wish
to be quite d la mode, shoes of same, Elizabethan
collar, and no ruffling round the corsage; though
I think the absence of white round the neck has
an unfinished effect.
Good-bye.
Yours, _
MAB.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
St. Andrew’s Masonic Ball ...Sept. 13
Manly Wildflower Show Sept. 14,15
E.S.A.A. Club Sports Sept,
Snail’s Bay Regatta • • Sept, lo
Masonic Plain and Fancy Ball (Town Hall)...Sept. 18
“Socials” Ball (Mrs. Martin’s Academy) — Sept. 19
Comp. Ball to Mr. F. H. Needs (Nithsdale). .Sept. 19
Annual Picnic Nimrod Fishing Club Sept. 12
Sydney A. A. Club Sports Sept. 23
St. Vincent’s Annual Ball (Exhibition) Sept. 35
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) ■ • Sept. 35
Railway Officers’ Picnic (Botany) Sept. 36
Railway and Tramway Ball (Exhibition). ...Sept. 37
Parramatta Bowing Club Ball Sept. 28
Fancy Bazaar (Govt. House). Oct. 11
*** Notices of all Interesting Social Events (pro-
perly authenticated by the names and addresses of
the writers) will be inserted.


Prepared according: to the directions o Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOB
dyspepsia, headache, indigestion
mental and physical exhaustion!
impaired vitality, nervous diseases
hysteria, wakefulness, sea-sickness
WEAKENED ENERGY. &c.
No Danger can Attend its Use,
Nervbi
- Jins Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish * ireiilar.ion and (.rowing Chil-
dren.
, . . . Sandusky. 0., May 21.1880
I have used your Acid Phosphate and
non nee it a very valuable addition. I find It use
i , r : T . auuiLiuii, i nnu it use*
ful and beneficial In nervous dyspepsia, nervom
depression following overwork and anxiety, as wel
as the gastric derangements. Where there ii
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull
heavy head, R is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
in regard to th, kZW
iSSS&i t £g£ am,nl '- with t£o met
. I f?*'' 6 if in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
d ° r ? n^*; m . ( r a , t of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients It has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
.. tt A - S. Carpenter, M.D., Keene, N.H., says •
Ho T rfif o rd ’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine, x have taken it myself, and for several
from I -*^ s - crib ® d 11 f °r my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory result!, It is
ai ? d ln 8ome cases of morbid
resnit t f a . cts . like a charm,’ producing the desired
ISmLv Jt 18 Pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
„ , . Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to tin
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitivi
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefl
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms ar
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as sucl
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches Are. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Mortus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, S-u-e Throat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
ease of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the Iron-work consists of the very best
sfeel and Norway Iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their i. nish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they abb the
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNYABD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO.,
Solo Agents.
“Ranelagh” again on the rocks. By an t
' bye, t he 11 be as much on shore as she has been on
■-sea. Pacific ocean evidently wants a little widen-
ing.
Telt graph stations in mid-ocean are pro-
posed. The plan is simple. A large floating: buoy
ns anchored over the cable, and a large metal plate,
'with an insulated conductor, is sunk to the cable at
Hhe bottom, and a current generated on board the
ishlp telegraphing.
So the Rev. Mr. Archdall, has been giving
tfrom St. John’s pulpit, Darlinghurst, his “ Personal
/Experience among the Jews." This is candour, if
.'you like. Wnat interest did you pay? Did they
•charge you as much as we had to pay ? Oh I if we
•could only give “our personal experience among
ithe Jews ” Alas ! it would show they are more
•confiding than they’re supposed to be.
When Bismarck heard that Major-General
Sir Drury Curzon Drury-Lowe, with several other
•liistinguished officers, was to represent England at
the German autumn manoeuvres, he couldn’t
understand why England wanted to send such an
army of officers. This only occurs oCurzonally
this —but you’ve guessed it ? No ? Well, there
was once a Spaniard, who [Pooh ! —Bn. B.]
Subscriber writes: “The length of the
ark was 30 i cubits, the breadth 30 cubits, and the
height 30 cubits. Can you explain how Noah could
have found accommodation tor a male and female
animal of every species in a boat of such limited
dimensions and still have room enough left for
himself and family ?” Of course we can—ho hired
a Glebe Point tram conductor to stow the animals.
The detail with which the actions of Joe
■Smith, the Irish informer, are being noted down
and published is getting to be amusing. The fol-
Jowing is a part of a paragraph thought worthy of
being telegraphed to Melbourne from Adelaide
““While at Semaphore, Smith drank seven bottles
•of English ale and three bottles of wine in four
hours. His wire is a tine-looking young Irish-
woman, about twenty-five. An impression has
gained ground that she will leave him.” Not only
is the unsavory Joe made famous by the record of
his drinking capability, but his unfortunate wife
is drugged forth into publicity, and her probable
inlidclay to her worthless husband coolly dis-
-cussed.
Sour stomach, sick headache, and dizziness,
tHop Bitters cures with a few doses. See
This is the style m which a South Austra-
lian Social-Purity auctioneer slung- a recent ad. •—
For sale. 200 large-framed Northern wethers,
trom B-tooth to full mouth; will lamb early,” That
Creorge Robins may be a boss “exhorter” at a
prayer meeting, but ho doesn’t know any more
about Natural History than a bob-tailed wallaby
does about Magna Charta. y
Here is a case for instant action on the
part of the Sabbatarians. A backsliding scholar,
prompted no doubt by the evil one, picked up a
quartz specimen at Church Hill, Ophlr, while on
his way to the “Sawbath” school. This resulted
m opening a new line of reef there, which some
hopeless blasphemers have christened “ The Lord’s
Da> Reef. this ought to bring ’Uly ’Emy back
mstanter. What s a Jervis Bay “swingle ” in the
face of a horror like this ?
With reference to certain letters extracted
o SP 1 *?°-C ' donte, Gahranny observes;—
fa te thattliese letters were translated
swuL r( i nCh ’ and mve been re-translated into
OU M correspondent; it is possible there-
fore that m all respects these letters are not exact
90P‘ca of the original ones.” Very “ possible ” in-
deed I Would not highly probable” or “abso-
lutely certain have been better phrases in such a
connection ?
A good many tales are current as to the
pecuniary nearness of Judge Cope, of Victoria.
Somehow his appearance is suggestive of a tightly
buttoned pocket, and he has a way of looking to-
wards the pocket parts of anyone he addresses that
at once carries your thoughts there. But, although
fourteen words now go for sixpence,” the Judge
saved his money the other day in a dexterous
fashion. He wanted his garden dug, and at the
Court of General Sessions when an old culprit put
forward the excuse that he was out of work, the
Judge saw his chance. Lifting his head, and sur-
veying the crowded galleries, he observed “That’s
very strange. I have been wanting my garden
turned up this while back.” That evening he
found twenty-seven men at his gate, all anxious
to turn anything up. We expect to And the
fourteen words for sixpence,’ Press taking
notice of this, and urging 1 that Judges be prevented
from insidious encroachment on the privileges of
that great instrument of civilisation, the morn-
ing newspaper.
We thought our recovery was complete,
buttheaccount of the Tamworth banquet to the
three Ministers has caused a relapse. We ’ave had
nothing but fits since we read it. Rays the Ob-
server -“The poultry consisted of the frames of
a few fowls and we . . conclude that the birds
severed their connexion with this world some
months ago, and their frames had been carted
round the country to sundry banquets. . .
ihe knives and silver would have been all the
better had they been introduced to a few bars of
soap and a little elbow grease. Mr. Nathan Cohen
occupied the chair, and sixty-six gentlemen tucked
their legs under the table. The chairman’s name
pvesa tair index to his faith and features. Bear-
jngthls in mind, one can guess how some of his
interior brain convolutions must have been steeped
in pent-up blasphemy as he asked the Kev. Mr.
Armstrong (Presbyterian Minister.) to ask a bless-
ing. I retty position in which to place a clergy-
man ! Nice thing, to ask the Lord’s blessing on
chickens that every one round the table was
cursing! Hut the end was not yet. The chair-
man s cup ot bitterness had to be drained to the
dregs, ana those were nearly reached when a pork-
pie was placed before him. Then, he observed
sententlou-dy : “ What have T done that bad luck
should dog me ? Herman and Waxraan get their
ip) per cent., while 1 shovel out pork, and ask a
Presbyterian to bless it.” Then the silence of his
countryman Nebuchadnezzer fell upon him till it
was time to go.
This is one way of keeping your credit
green. Effect a large indent of saleable goods and
obtain delivery on arrival, giving the importers
your acceptance for the shipment. Then get at
once an advance on that shipment from other per-
sons; cause those persons to offer that shipment
tor sale by auction without disclosing your con-
nection therewith; then purchase that shipment
by prevailing on the auctioneer to take a three-
months’ bill; and, lastly, having so obtained re-
possession, sell that same shipment privately for
cash, and pocket the money. This Is all well
within the currency of your own bills, which
presumedly fall due when you calculated on be-
ing naturalised at Valparaiso or Noumea. Of
course there Is one thing essentially necessary
to ensure your success in this and other Ingenious
methods of commercial manipulation. You must
work the great dodge of the age—professional
religion. _ Be ultra-religious, exercise vour evi-
dent spiritual gifts, more particularly in the
direction of those sects who are most ostentatious
in their Piety, mid within your own particular
sect towards the functions of an institution known
as a Sunday school. Never question the Inspira-
tion of the Scriptures, or deny anything which
has been written by the saints of your order.
\ ou will soon become a Sunday school superinten-
dent— a big, flabby flat-nosed deity; you will
gain respect and confidence of the entire congre-
gation, and be krown tar and wide as a particularly
holy individual. Yes, you will become a Sunday
school superintendent, and be able to put your
beloved pastor down In your schedule for £500-
£ our r.£™ oved S OU8in .(another pastor) down
for £1200; sundry widows down for £100
each and upward j and even the astut© and sane-
tilled chief deacon for £1000 I 1 I Brethren, let us
be joyful.
Gunpowder, poison, asphyxiation, have
been tried, and still the rabbits increase and nro-
sper. But a way out of the difficulty has at last
been found a blazed tree has been discovered in
the wilderness. Rabbits are now inoculated with
tuberculous matter. This effects their consump-
tion. After vaccination, you may give them a
flannel petticoat to lie on every night, and the run
of a forty-acre paddock during the day, but all the
same, they commence with a gentle sneeze and
end in n galloping phthisis. Their amativeness
may increase, but their lungs go, and the progeny
subsequently to vaccination, are puny and tuber-
culous. They also soon retire from life, leaving
behind them descendants punier and more con-
sumptive still. The melancholy decadence still
going on, a couple of months find the erstwhile
troublesome “bunny” no bigger than a mouse.
At one station, on the Darling*, they’ve g*ot them
down to the size of beetles, and hope by Christmas
to have them whittled down to fleas. But there Is
a reverse side to this pleasing - anticipation. If we
could coniine the tuberculosis to rabbits all would
be well. But we cannot. Dogs kill rabbits and
become phthisical; they bite sheep, and send the
virus along - . Men get tubercles served in their
dinners, and the only beings who ultimately
thrive are the doctors and their “ penumbras -
the undertakers There are dozens of other ways
for communicating the disease, but let this suffice.
No. We dislike rabbits, and we dislike phthisis ;
but, if we have to choose between them, leave us
the rabbits.
Once again! Jannery John came out of
his shell at the Randwlck Board meeting on the fith
inst., and showed some of that old form for which
he was in bygone times, so justly famed. First of
all, he declared that he thought all supply stores
should be tendered for; and then his bosom began
to swell with virtuous indignation, and his blood
was hot enough to boll eggs in, as he thundered
out that the Asylum authorities were paying £10 a
ton last year for hay that could be bought for £3.
lust at this point it looked as li the C.M.G.’s soul
was about to burst in two with honest rage, but,
brother Starkey got up and pointed out that the
Hon. John was on the Board himself, and had “ all
the jaw,’-’ at the time the £10 hay was purchased.
Whereupon, all the volcanic indignation frizzled
out.
Anthony Horden and Sons, of the Hay-
market, Sydney, are every day justifying their
right to the title of “ Universal Providers.” They
now announce that the whole of the principal
lines of patent medicines for household use have
been imported for sale, to the N.S. W. public. The
investment of the firm in these lines runs up to
£60,000, and the prices which they have fixed for
each article represent a reduction of about 8s. 6d.
in the £.
There is nothing known Better calculated
to invigorate the constitution, than Wolfe’s
Schnapps; it braces the nerves, tones the func-
tion, and sets the machinery of the frame in healthy
operation. j
The Model Dads.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
was a happy Syndicate of three old lads—
JWii (ftf them were married men, but only two were
■dads;
iPiie dads were A. and B., and C. the childless man
was named,
And A. and B. were holy souls, while C. was often
blamed.
T „ . , „ Too-roo-lool
If A. and B. were all the world, then all the world
would do!
A. was a pleasant party for a picnic or a tea,
And never was a prayer too long 1 to meet the taste
of B.;
The two were always smiling 1 , and were called the
moral dads.
And the little slips they dropped into were chris-
tened “little fads.”
, T . . , „ Too-roo-lool
■If A. and B. were all the world, then all the world
would do!
IBat C. would curse and swear and light, and go
upon the spree,
-And often nearly broke the hearts of gentle A.
and B. I
They often knelt and prayed for him, and spoke to
him of love
■And trust, and truth, and all the things that come
down from above.
„ Too-roo-looI
s i A. and B. were all the world, then all the world
would do I
How nan ye live with such a man, O gentle A.
andB.f”
They used be asked from time to time when sitting
down at tea.
Then A. would turn his eyes around, and B. would
speak and say
Our brother is a little bad, but maybe good some
day.”
,. . , „ Too-roo-loo I
11 A. and B. were all the world, then all the world
would dol
Then upwards in a chorus would the hearers raise
a voice,
Which, although It floated through the nose, was
meant to mean rejoice:
*O3u ih e noble pair of men are gentle A. and B.,
1 hey r r.J of Christian Jove for all the world—aye,
even 0.1”
. Too-roo-lool
I: A,f> nd B. were all the world, then all the world
wen id dol
Ootno. now,” said one who drank with C. the
s ark ling Spanish bowl.
ITou i e shirking vour true share of business work,
non ray soul j
I m not a raati bt hymns myself, but A. and B.Te
too fait,
O v they d wirtn you up and cut you off, and let you
go elsewhere.”
Too-roo-loo I
t A.and B. were all the world, then all the world
would dol
• Hut (Me),” said C., “they show me (hie) each
month a balance-sheet,
Attd (Me) all’s right—I sign my name to everything
1 meet;
Besides {‘tic), I put ten to one into the firm at first,
Anil A. and B, are (Me) deuced kind, and (hie) for-
give a burst!”
Too-roo-loo I
If A. and B. were all the world, then all the world
woo Id dol
Once more ring out the sanctity of gentle A.
arid U.,
The holy men, the pious men, who took such care
of C.i
Ah MeiboUrne loved and worshipped them, and hid
their little fads.
And the Presbytery ogled them, and called them
model dads.
Too-roo-loo I
If A. and B. were all the world, then alt the world
would do!
But one morning came a constable and others at
his tail.
And laid their hands on sleepy C., and bore him off
to gaol
On a charge of forging documents to fabulous
amounts,
Of swindling, of embezzlement, and on many other
counts.
Too-roo-loo 1
If A. and B. were all the world, then all the world
would “do.”
And A. and B. were never found—they sllddered
with their fads,
And ftity th msand sovereigns from the game of
model dads;
And carnal C. got seven years for his misdeeds In
“ biz.”—
Which shows how Indispensable strict moral con-
duct is!
Too-roo-loo!
If A. and B. were all the world, then all the world
would “do.”
Now C.’s In gaol, on rations spare, and sitting on a
stool,
A-stitching prison breeches, for having bean a
fool;
And A. and B. are elsewhere, and indulging gor-
geous fads,
A-reaping the reward of being pious, model dads!
Too-roo-loo I
If A. and B. were all the world, then all the world
would “DO.”
Pedagogue? is meant by a mental occupation ? ”
Pupil/: One jp wlpch we use our minds.”
Pedagogue: “ And a ipanoal pccppatiqn?”
Pupil: “One in which we use opr hq,mjs.”
Pedagogue: “Jfow, which of these occupations js rpihe? Oome, now. what do I use
most m teaching yop ? ”
Pupil (readily): “Your cane, sir,"


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA L’ LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering'
other organs from t ulfiLing their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorate r. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these sym n to ms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
tee maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due (o a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are Imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
P* LLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
be i 1 1 the inventor's name and trade mark. The
Li .•» oiatiry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
MONEY LOANS ORANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeds, Bonds, Certificates, Snares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which wifi be paid in f all within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE P ETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
91 OAsrLREAGH Street,
One dc or of King Street.
WORK ! / G CLASSES,
GENERATE VOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. K E E LY AND CO.,
71 Goul turn-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasaliers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Keel y, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
ligr iting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier 70s
3 do do 50s
2 do do 35s to 45s
Wall bracket lamp, burn If hours.. 17s 6d
do do 9 do .. 15s
Table lamps, 2 branch 60s
do 1 do 45s
Brass Brackets 4fls
All Globes and Fittings .. .. 5s extra
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal 2s6dpergal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 13s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to tie mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all pai ts of the Colonies.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
DINNER,
H
ONE SHILLING.
*
<Fc.
%
jr ®
Cr PITT STREET,
& NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
CO
i-3 ’’ti
a 2
w S
w >»
co H
‘ W
w
NEXT TATTERSALL’S,
All Meals One Miilling.
J. C. GREENFIELD, Proprietor.
ERNEST CARTER,
IVarde/l Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
PST" AH Timber is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
A. GORMAN*
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ Clarendon,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS
will find this surpasses most of the leading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDEPARK.lt
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES Of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &c„ as he IS and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES
for selling nothing but the very best.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
J&T THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. IvCa/tm-red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex* vt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t refore, roly that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look tor the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first Hoor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 43 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUNRO,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
■^T'lLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Wadndt
Wood,
&c. &c. & c.
HEBBLEWHITE & CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
EASTWAY BROtHERS,
WIRE WURKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under :—
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 73 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORG E-STREET.
&T Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
T HE
FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
(Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £666,000.
Directors •
The Hon. W. A, Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W. H. Eldred, Esq., J.P. I F. T. Humphery, Esq.,
Robert Hudson, Esq. M.P. , „
I J. Y. Mills, Esq., J.P.
Manager ; F. 8. Macdermott.
Accountant; John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House, 357 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
IV. H. Ariel! and Co. ’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL'S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
yErated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps.
J. F. MCKENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and 11b. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams' Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
ECURE A LOT AT SPRINGSIDE,
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
®-317 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes, — Private
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings;
afternoon classes, Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at Tattei-sall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &e. 351 Elizabeth-street.
fW The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 35 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide workmen engineers, &c,
tST" The new duplex barrel, Introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every contldence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tern.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—3s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
Iar BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,’
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
R.BURGIS-
TAILOR,.
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORIN 0
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations o
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 25 years’
personal practical experience (5 years in John
Broadwood and Sons, London, and 30 in N.S.W.),
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a lair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
35 per cent, less than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
f guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
ow prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Como and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £35 cash, FJeswliere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
2 8 5 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
AYALA*
",
%
CXTRApUftUTY
fHAHWCNl
WITUAStt,
■/W
■o.
A - I
V
“ I’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.”
“Oh, if that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk a# a
cricket in a jiffy. Here, Waiter I large bottle of
Ayala’s White Label. This is a wine one can’t get
everywhere; and if it doesn’t set you up, Frank, I’ll
give you a new hat.”
UR PHILLIPS S HO.,
AGENTS.
BRIDGE-STREET CHAMBERS.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHOUT HOKN
WHISKY.
T EDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
I 1 drink of the array, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; -will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOPFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. ;
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-scat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOB HOME USB.
Agents Wanted in Evbbv District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
EF" THE PARAGON OP PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Ago !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Saywell’s Toliacet Co., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCP-
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.


It is related that twelve gentlemen had
agreed to dine together, and, as they wore in want
of a much larger number, it was mutually agreed
that each should select, unknown to the other, the
most disagreeable acquaintance he had. When the
selections carac to bo examined, it was found tha
all twelve corresponded, and the individual on
whom the suffrages fell was the Home Secretary,
Sir Vernon Harcourt. In Sydney, such a thing
would have been impossible. We have too wide a
choice oT disagreeables. Suppose that, on the other
hand, twelve persons arranged that each should,
unknown to the other, select the most agreeable
person he knew. All the suffrages would fall on
one man. His name is Robert Burdett—Johnson.
Perkins, the Queensland Minister of Lands,
®ut up for re-election, and this is how Groom (who
was running the Opposition candidate, Campbell)
reportedPerkins’ speech:—“Mr. Perkins opened
by protesting in a maudlin, rambling, incoherent
manner, against the religious and sectarian ele-
ments which had been imported into the election.
He said for his part it was a matter of indifference
to him what a man’s religion was. Had he been
born a Mahommedan he should have been a
Mahommedan. As it was, he supposed they were
all a set of blackguards. They had a right to go to
h—J their own read, and he did not wish to pre-
vent any man from doing so. Commenting on Mr.
James Campbell, who, he stated, could not write
his name, lie said it was for the electors to choose
between them, but as for himself he did not care a
tinker’s d—n whether they elected him or not.”
Perkins was elected.
At the Canadian Church Congress (Epis-
copalian), Canon Houston related some instances
of good having been wrought by card-playing. I
What would Dean Cowper have said, had he been
there'/ 1 —Said an amateur theologian to Father (
Tom Burke; “1 don’t believe in such nonsense as
Purgatory.” Whereupon Father Tom, with a j
solemn face, but twinkling eye, retorted in his 1
gravest tone: “Well, sir, if you don’t believe in I
Purgatory you may go to Hell.” Over the I
Mormon population, which reaches only 135,000, I
there are set more than twenty-two thousand church !
officials. Such as a president and two councillors; j
13 apostles and divers counsellors; 00 patriarchs, !
whose business it is to bless, in writing, at #3.00 a
head; 35 presidents of “Stakes of Zion;” 375
bishops; 3045 high priests; 11,545 elders, of whom
every one can preach, baptize, lay on hands for
the reception of the Holy Ghost, and anoint for
the healing of the sick; 1386 priests; 1576 teachers, i
and 4100 deacons.
The Herald tells us that the only
Inglis has a medical friend at Nagpore who
takes three days to get through a bottle of
Australian wine. Although this -Nagpore
man eulogises our “ delicious wines,” there’s
not much hope that fellows of his niggardly
and abstemious kidney will much advance
the trade. As they say in the classics—Wee
potatoribus Mis tempus eget.
The people of Jugiong are up in
arms, and no wonder. After travelling to
Japan, and working its way round by Pata-
gonia, a letter, addressed to “ Miss Evans,
Reedy Creek, near Jugiong,” reached its
destination a few days ago. Judging by
the envelope, it had passed through a good
many hands—mostly dirty. Under “Jugi-
ong,” one P.M. had written “ Where?” and
another, “No such place known.” People
who stand this will stand anything.. Can’t
you get up a good divorce case, with a
couple of bush missionaries and a P.M. for
co-respondents, or brain a Chinaman, or
bah ! There are a dozen ways of making
your thriving town known. Is there no
enterprise among you people of Jugiong ?
“All men are liars.” Thus spoke a
rude barbarian in ancient times, when the
art of euphemistic writing was unknown.
Jf Solomon had had the editor of the South
Australian Register for an amanuensis,
his harsh denunciation of the imaginative
faculty of mankind would have read thus :
“In our ordinary intercourse, the best of
us do not feel ourselves constrained to keep
within the clearly-defined lines that murk
the limits of our exact knowledge, and in
several directions the Held of our consci-
ousness is bordered by tracts into which |
we may have made short and brief excur-
sions, but which we have never thoroughly I
explored. It Is doubtful whether those who
‘ crib, cabin, coflin, and confine themselves j
habitually to assertions whoso accuracy 1
they can demonstrate, .are really better
than those who give themselves more
liberty, confiding in the rectitude of the
spirit that animates them.”— Vide S. A.
Register, 33rd August. 1137. This is the
kind of thing which happens when a news-
paper proprietor delivers his leading
columns into the bands of the clergy.
Knee-breeches and dress swords have
reached Australia. Through “ wearing o’ the
green,” Gavan Duffy left Ireland thirty years ago.
When elected Speaker of the Victorian Assembly,
I he essayed to raise his statu-e and his dignity by
I wearing’ a wig. He desired that those attending
| his funeral—
“ In jaunting-car or gig,
In grief they’ll murmur o’er my grave,
He wore, he wore a wig.”
C.M.G.’s were subsequently introduced among us, |
then a Baronetcy was created, and some of our
more ambitious ones thought they saw a few !
vacant seats even in the House of Lords, into j
which they might drop from the strangers’ gallery.
All this we have borne with good humoured |
equanimity seasoned with a soupcon of surprise—
not to say derision and contempt. Uutwhen knee- '
breeches, pumps, silk stockings, and swords are [
produced, it is time to speak out. At a Victorian j
political dinner the other day, uniforms as gorgeous
as those of drummers in the Russian Imperial
Guard toned down the angularities of some who
had supped with “ Wales,” or saluted Royalty.
Solomon, when he took Sheba’s queen on his knee,
was not a “c’rcuinstance” on MTntyre of Maldon
when he squatted below the salt. This sort of
thing should be calmly but firmly sat upon. Many
years ago the popular “Mac” reached Sandhurst
with a sheep’s femur. It was a leg of mutton when
he started from the Murray, but, as he had it in
his mouth most of the way, it was as shiny as a
bladder of lard when he dumped his swag down
outside the Shamrock and got Billy Heffernan to
score up a quart of “colonial.” The march of
time has changed that leg of mutton into a court
sword with a basket-hilt as long as a poor-box. Ho
was Mayor when the Duke of Edinburgh visited
Bendigo, and wore a hat with sufficient trimming
on it to hang a Chinaman. That hat is still pre-
served in the Sandhurst Town Hall. Only one
subsequent Mayor—Sandy Bayne—tried it on,
but he had to buy a new one as it was not
large enough to go half way round the
bumps of benevolence and liberality with
which that gifted person’s head is endowed.
The founders of the United States knew that,
whether aristocratic, monarchical, or republican,
every country possessed a por-ccntage of citizens
anxious to raise themselves above their fellows by
means which make the light laugh and the judicious
grieve. So those far-seeing men, by a stroke of
the pen, made a bon-lire of crosses, ribbons, gules
azure and gules or, dexter bends and sinister
bends, high mightinesses and serene excrescences,
tinsel, titles, trumpery, and the thousand-and-one
methods by which fools keep the angels in a
chronic state of “weep.” And now, a hundred
years after the allies marched into “York-town”
to change the destinies of a continent and start a
tidal wave of “ Democracy ” round the world, we
find Victorian representatives engaged in pouring
the vintage of to-day into the old bottles of days
gone by. But that we are fiercely loyal, we would
think it almost time to “ cut the painter.”
The Rev. Mr. Jasper, a coloured minister,
is rough on men ob science. Specially is he wroth I
at such men as “ dat yar Mister Copper-nicus and '
Mister Snewtons what tells us dat the arth am roun’ !
an’ a floatin’ on nuttin, when de Bible says its got
foundations. Guess X’ze bln as near de bottom ob
do arth as any ob derafolksos; sebenhunner an’
fifty feet In a mine shaft, an’ gib my word ob honor
dar was no sign ob gittln' through It; not a wink
ob daylight from de udder side. 0, de IrrebTlnoe
ob sayln’ de arth am roun’ when de Lor’ say in
Reberlatlon dar am four angels a-stannin’ on de
four corners ob dc arth a holdln’ on t > de four
winds! Dese sclcntlfiking men can He so as to
make black white; but dpy can’t make what’s got
four corners onto it roun’; dey can’t square de
circle in dis yer respeck,”
Every reader is now familiar with the worn
de plume of Samuel Clemens—Mark Twain. His
humour came to the world outside of America as
a new and wonderful thing. But he did not create
this humour. It had been In America long before.
It had made the savage woods ring with laughter
when, long rifle and axe In hand, the sturdy
pioneers pierced through them In the days when
to laugh too loud meant to run a chance of never
laughing again. It was heard between the crack
of revolvers in the mining days, when every saloon
was liable at any moment to be turned into a dead-
1 house. It was born of the reckless gaiety that
comes of constant familiarity with danger. It had
none of that tine ethereal flavour which distin-
guishes the wit of a Voltaire. It was not rapier-
play ; it was poleaxiug, but the poleaxing was
thorough. A highly cultured society could never
have produced such a humorist as Mark Twain,
and reversely his humour would never contribute
to produce a highly cultured society. Returning
to the rapier illustration for a moment; a finished
swordsman thrusts almost within the circle
of a half-crown, and you have just time
to wonder what o’clock it is, when you
are dead. The poleaxer, on the other hand,
swings his weapon above his,head, brings it down
upon your skull with a crash—and you are a most
unhandsome corpse. This method may have more
of a furious effect about it than the other, but it is
certainly not so artistic. At the same time, the
majority of people prefer it, for just the same
reason as that which makes shearers and swagmon
prefer brimstone-and-kerosene brandy to the pure
liquor—because the adulterated stuff has a fiercer
flavour in their mouths. Not that we mean Mark
Twain’s humour is comparable to bad brandy. No,
we mean that it deals in violent contrasts and’
Sharp shocks, which are the qualities best under-
stood by that large and respectable body of readers
who require to be knocked down and jumped upon
before they can be got to see that, they are wanted
to laugh at something. Carlyle calls this the Thor-
liammer humour, and holds it in considerable re-
spect. Matthew Arnold christens it (juinlonism—
from the flippant character in “David Copper-
lield ’’—and detests it. For our own part we think
it has done good service, and only wants one thing
now—a rest. But this it will never got while
people call for it, and mules exist. We
have kindly recollections of Mark Twain for
his former books. We can never wholly
hate him while we remember that he wrote
Tom Sawyer. But we feci that we shall never again
be the same old friends we were before we read
his last volume—“ Life on the Mississippi.” It is
dry ; it is almost dull. If anybody else had written
it, we might have considered it Interesting as a
rather sensibly written guide-book ; but from
Mark Twain we expected something better than
that. His diction is as concise and clear as ever,
and ins strong common sense quite as apparent;
but his fun—where has it gone to— oksontUs neiyes
&c. f Wo have to write in French to hide our
emotion. His fun is as dead as patriotism. And
he knows it. His attempts to write in the old
humorous style are like the desperate scratchings
on his coflin-lid of a man buried alive. American
papers please copy.
So far, Mr. Combes is the only C.M.Gr.
who has been awarded a gold medal at the
Amsterdam Exhibition. It’s clear there
could have been no competition.
What a queer phrase is Ischia Earth-
quake Relief Fund? Why in thunder should
we be asked to relieve the earthquake ? The
expression is somewhat analagoua to the
“evangelical” one—“improving our dear
brother’s death.”
William Blackburn, member of the
“Christian Israelite Church,” is to preach a
sermon having for its motive, “ That those
who are grafted Into Christ for the salvation
of the soul may receive the second graft of
Christ into them for the redemption of the
mortal body to obtain eternal life.” This n
explicit and comforting. As “ grafting ” is
a good deal in our line, we shall not miss
Mr. Blackburn’s discourse. It is in the
“second” grafting that we have the most
interest, as, ever since Bishop Moorhouse
told us that Hades and Batman’s Swamp
j were svnonymous, we feel quite at ease re-
| garding our “ souls.”
; So Mr. Lachlan Mackinnon, one of
| the bloated proprietors of the Melbourne
Argus, has been warning the home autho-
rities that unless England annexes New
Guinea, Australia will go for separation
from the mother country! Mr. Lachlan
Mackinnon doesn’t speak for Australia.
Australia doesn’t want annexation. Ninety-
eight per cent, of the population are utterly
indifferent in the matter, and care no more
about New Guinea than they care about
the Solomon Island niggers boiling each
j other, or about Peter Campbell’s bush
I mission. AH the annexation Jingoism
comes from the organs of plutocracy.
Democratic Australia wants not to grasp
but to consolidate. The New Guinea and
New Hebrides “fake” has been started
and kept alive by the oil missionaries. The
S. M. Herald has, of course, gone bald-
headed tor the annexation scheme. If it
could only supply us with a practicable
proposal for protecting our present sea-
board-say from Wollongong to Port
Stephens—we might be induced 1 1 look into
the matter. Once without a “foreign
heathen mission,” hundreds of mission-
aries would be compelled to earn an honest
living.
Croppies lie down! A preceptory of Black
Knights has been opened in Sydney. Wo never
knew what these gentlemen were till lal ( I v. It
seems they are an offshoot of an ovei-nroof
Orange society in Ireland, the object of w iol, is
to study the Old Testament and make things lively
for the “ Papishes.” There used to be in the no i h
of Ireland at one time a society which went. . . lie
cheerful appellation of the “Hellflre Club.” ' I he
chief ambition of the members of this club was to
drink blazing punch through horse-collars to the
toast of “ To Hell with the Pope.” The peasantry
who dwelt in the neighbourhood of the place
where they held their meetings used to say that
the devil always presided with a red-hot bowl of
brimstone in trout of him; also that they used to
drink out of murderers’ skulls stolen from the
nearest gallows—the bodies of malefactors were
left hanging in chains in those days. Also that
they were pledged to deliver one soul out of their
number up to the devil every three months, and
that they used to draw lots to see who would be
the victim. Perhaps some of these statements
were not reliable. We don’t know; but we know
that the tradition is that the members of the Hell-
flre Club all came to a violent end, and that their
ghosts haunt the old meeting places to this day.
We know a man who came home one night so
frightened at seeing them that he couldn’t stand,
so there must be some truth in the story. Perhaps
all this has nothing to do with the Black Knights,
who, for all we know, may be a very respectable
body of men—even John Davies may be one of
them ;—but when we are once started on any topic
bearing however remotely on Gehenna, we get
garrulous. You see we have so many friends
down there that we are naturally interested in the
place. But we don’t think there is much harm in
the Black Knights. They are very probably a Jot
of nice inoffensive persons who like to bedeck
themselves with scarves and badges, and to be
addressed as “ Right Worthies” and “ Most Noble
Grands.” This ambition is innocent, if weak, it
has some good points, too. It enables them to get
out of their humble spheres, if only for one even-
ing in the month. What gaudy joy, for instance,
it must be for a grocer, fresh from selling a pound
of soap or a string of candles, to sit down in the
Chapter-room among his brother knights—just as
the knights of old and barons bold used to sit—and
be called by a gorgeous title instead of by his own
paltry little name! There is glory in this, if you
like, and we shouldn’t wonderlf the Black Knights
become a numerous body. If Carlyle’s statement
can be relied upon, they have a large percentage
of the population to draw recruits from. We shall
be glad to encourage them in this way now and
then, as long as they remain good and leave the
poor old Pope alone, because wc like anything In
the marionette-show line. And all the 111 we wish
them Is that they may never die till their minds
wear out their bodies. And we hope when they do
die, they will die like loyal Orangemen singing the
“ Battle of the Boyne” and dressed in full regalia,
so that they will be able to make a proper appear-
ance before the angels.
For the nation could not see what the difference
could be
’Tween a “chow ” and “teheou ” when sneezing
or in any other line.
And was standing- by and chaffing- and satanicaUy
laughing
At the earthly ways the Hotandhots were doing
the divine.
But, at last, the pother’s done, and the Hotandhots
are one,
For a genius picked a man for them who doesn’t
sneeze at all;
And they now look o’er the ocean with the fervid-
est devotion,
For England sends a Canon Barry
At a time when—hang it!—marry!
All the nation groaned to heaven above to send a
Cannon Bail.
DECLINED WITH THANKS.
Child of Genius (to the Editor, after half-an-hour’s rhapsody): The glittering stars, and the pale
effulgence of the Southern Cross, each orb shining like a—a—half-a-orown. You couldn’t spare one,
I suppose? (We couldn’t.)
An Idyll.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Richard and Katie, village born, their parents
Neighbours—tillers of the soil—as playmates, wore
Their early life away; and Richard—for the boy
Was strong and bold, and pleasant to the eye—.
Earned Katie’s baby love, which love is pure;
But purity dies ever young.
Pleasant It was in summer to behold
Their pretty frolics ’mid the new-mowed hay:
Then, ever and anon, the little maid
Would lift her sweet, carnation Up for fond
Caress, and he—the lad was sprung
Of stalwart stock, and grew apace—
Bent low to meet them; and, meanwhile,
The elders of the village smiled.
And said, “ ’Tis well.”
But when thAt Richard was to youthhood come,
And early down his ruddy cheek displayed,
His father called him; and these words he spake:
’ Dicky, my son, thou pride of mine old age
And pillar of thy mother’s hopes, ’twere well
That thou should'st quit thy rustic home.
The parent nest, the cottage of thy ancestors,
And to the busy town thy youth betake
To earn thy bread by honest daily toil,
As Billiard-marker- ’tis a healthful life.”
And spake the lad, with joy-beglistened eye,
“ Father, be it so.” But when the maiden,
Little Katie, knew that she should lose
Her playmate and her love, she wept.
And wept: yet tears relieved her not,
Till ho with gentle, kindly speech, and soft
Endearment, which she well received—for now
The maid could boast of fourteen years—assuaged
Her grief. And plucking, from the pocket
Of his coat, a kerchief, bearing on its border
Strange device of tieeting steed and jockey
Placed thereon, he bade her ever use it
For his sake, nor wash it till such time
As he returned.
The summers came, and winters chill, and passed, |
And Richard made no sign. The parents sighed, |
With gentle shake of head, and said
Their son, their bonny son, was dead:
And thus, indeed, spake all, save only one,
Canon—Cannon.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the land of Hotandhots, not the land of Hot-
tentots—
Bear in mind the land I mention, or you’ll miss
my tale’s effect
And be thinking of some region where a primitive
religion
Jams a barb’rous population into one barbaric
sect.
In the land of Hotandhots there are sober men and
sots
Bound together in the worship of a pure and
lofty thought;
And they strive with one intention to repress all
vain dissension,
And to do their holy level best as Hotandhottists
ought.
Now,; then, order is their forte, and, in praying as
in sport,
They must have a captain over all to keep the
mob in face;
So, when Death wiped off their headman, they
shed tears about the dead man,
And they groped about at once to stick another
in his place.
And the sober Hotandhots begged the sots to drop !
their tots,
And to pray with them, and grope with them at
home and far away;
So they prayed and groped on Sunday, and they
groped and prayed on Monday,
And they prayed and groped throughout the
week on ev’ry blessed day.
But, on Saturday, the sots swore the other Hot-
andhots
Were for picking of a leader of a queer peculiar
sort,
Who said “chow ” when he was sneezing, and had
not the graceful pleasing
Way of hooting “teneou,” as they expected
their chief ruler ort.
Then the other Hotandhots turned upon the
rev’rend sots,
And said: ‘‘Hang it 1 We will have him in the
name of all that’s dear,
For Providence has told us he’s the lad to grip
and hold us !”
Then the others prayed and pranced about, and i
stoutly cried “No fearr
Oh, the war between the sots and the other Hot- {
andhots-
Where they preached and where they prayed, '
and where they plentifully dined—
Was a sign to teli creation that the sacred eleva- !
turn
Of their headman was a thing th’ Almighty'd |
not designed.
A lovely girl, fast hastening to her prime— 1
Hia early love, his Katie.
Meanwhile had Richard—grown to be
A man, and wearing ’neath the chin
A mighty ruff of scarlet—quite forgot
His village home, and thought on other things;
His brain with subtle games of skill was vexed:
With “ fifty up ’’—for he, according as
His father had directed, was a marker—
Or, somewhiles, on Sabbath afternoons,
With “ poker ”; ’twas a game he deemed
Befitted to the quiet of the day.
Some eight years from his home was Richard,
When came to that same hostel where he earned
His wage, a handmaid, comely in her form,
And of a freshness seldom seen in cities;
And he gazed, and she returned the gaze:
And each thought each was fair. Amid
The busy toilings of the day, they’d snatch
The hasty, fleeting chance to hold
Some sweet converse, about the weather, or
The score of things that floated down
The current of their lives. And, one day,
Answering to the master's sudden call, the hand-
maid,
In her anxious speed, did drop
From out the bosom of her gown of print,
A kerchief—covered with the dirt of yeai’s:
This, Richard, eager in his love, quick seized
And lifted to his lips, and then—Oh, Heaven!—
He saw, beneath the thick and inky crust,
It’s border. Then ho knew that she
Who dropped it was ids boyhood’s love: and ere
The sun that smiled upon his joy was e’en
A brief month older, Katie and ho
Became in wedlock Joined.
NEW CHUM.


Wool SEASON, lHK'i-4.
B. Cj’Jsbrough & Co.
(LIMITED),
In which are amalgamated The Australasian
Agency amt Banking Corporation (Limited),
und It. Goldsbrough and Co.,
WOOL & GRAIN BROKERS.
Capital. .
£3,000,000.
BEG to notify the Woolgrowcrs of New South
Wales and Queensland that they make
Liberal Cash Advances, on favourable terms, on
the ensuing* clip of Woo], and on Station securities.
Jj'WV tbiveHIso much Pleasure in announcing that
their NEW \\ AllLHOUSES at Darling Harbour
will be ready tor the reception and sale of Wool,
Auction Sales of which will be heid every FRIDAY
throughout the season. This department will
rein.in under the control of an efficient staff of
exports, who wid take charge of and Sell to the
Host Advantage all consignments entrusted to the
Company s care. The Sales of Fat Stock (at.
Horaebushi, Station and Freehold Properties
Gram, Sheepskins, Hides, Tallow, and General
Station Produce, will be under thesuperindenceof
Mr. Gi.OIU. E MAIDEN. The Warehouses wm be
unrivalled m the southern Hemisphere for extent
and adaptability to the trade, being replete with
every Modern Improvement for t he Efficient Dis-
play i.t Wool, the sale of which will b- conducted
tin the Melbourne system. Large and complete
samples ol each clip will ho shown in the well-
lighted SAMi’EE ROOMS, which comprise the
whole ol the upper floors, and as the bulk will be
easily acoessinle in the various rooms, which are
convenient to each other, the fullest facilities will
be available lor inspection, thus ensuring- the ut-
most confidence in purchasing. Prior to offering
valuations will be made by several experienced
valuators, and their valuations will be carefully
compared before the wool is submitted for sale
The various lots, no matter how small, will be pro-
tected up to the full market value. As they eon-
tine their business strictly to .hat of KEELING
BROKERS ONLY, the best guarantee is afforded
that no parcel will be sold for less than its worth
Farmers' Lots receive special attention, every bale
and sack in the clip being shown in (he Sample
Rooms. Should owners’ expectations not be
realized m ydney, they have the advantage of
trying the elbourne market before deciding on
shipment ■_ which latter case the Company is pre-
pared t<. ■ ake liberal cash advances at lowest
market . os, and consign to the English, Conti-
nental, 0. American markets for disposal. The
charges o i Wool offered for sale, but not sold nre
only ONE PER BALE, whfch included
Receiving, Warehousing, Insurance whilst instore
and Delivering.
LONDON—156 & 157 LEADENHALL STREET.
MELBOURNE—BOURKE& WILLIAM STREETS.
SYDNEY—4 SPRING STREET.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE ;
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.
Goulburn
Lass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.;
&ES .SSS"
Orange' Condoblin
Natomine Coonamble
Nevertire
Bourke
Morpeth
Ounuedah
Hrrabri
Northern District, N.S.W.:
Brewarrina
Tamworth
UraRa
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
SIT 6 Veulba
linihy Cambooya
Central Line:
feufm Ptnn Capella
hornet
Northern Line:
fera'lMwers Kavenswood Junction
•Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
M'CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
Agencies in all parts of the world.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hare yourUmbreila Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
T, , 6 fi. G l5 0 iye Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
t u meg. Repairs neatly exe-
uiteu.
mm
AND
.5
IMD
ALL
CHEST AFFECTIONS
3
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfoumlers, General
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
12 1 LIVERPOOL STREET
and at
301 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
Iron Water P.pes, Connections, Wator and mS
Estimates srlven tor aU kinds of Ironwork. &o.
K
IRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
Belfast amd Glasgow: EBS
LOCH DHtr, and purest Scotch
SHAMROCK, and purest Irish
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure '
mellow, and well-mafiiroH *
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS
no VH+ a A^ ent: G - ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Flinders-st., Melbournne
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
,r,y° u with the “ PAINLESS corns!
krLIEVER, write direct to the Registered Pm
pnetor who will forward a bottle to all n ar te ot
Australasia, Post Free, for 3s. 6d. P ‘ f
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek. Gym pie.
B
RAUN’S WALTHAM VVATCIIIS
TOOK FIRST PRIZE
And all the Gold Medals at every Exhibition
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Optician
I®” 376 GEORGE STREET
Near the Post Office.
The Uurt 0 '^amW ate hes l n Sj -O nw .
w Sv w affirv„rA%f 12
Warranted from two to seven years
Only at R. BRAUN. U7« George Street
BLEND
{tpadeJ
mark
C°ofthe P^HESTSTUBW'whSkl<| L SS I
£g ul . n „T s&5sg; r&eaewtthB
p• KIR B Y,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT n d.er t aJser,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr James Curtis for sixteen (id) years- also
Managrer for over ten (10) years. y ’ a180 ’
JOHN BANKS,
IMPORTER OF
Bicycles and Tricycles
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings fop same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Foster s Bugle Brand.
New South Wales Racing Com-
pany’s Consultations
ox
MELBOURNE CUP.
so,000 Shares at 10s. per Share-£25,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters £ ]non
3rd ” Non-Starters ... aotio
For 149 Horses... 0^0 .. .. ..
117 Prize Gifts.—266 Prizes in all.
1 Prize Gift
' ‘ I Prize Gifts - at 135 £1000
■■ 7X » at £100 2000
at £500 1000 40 ” at 25 m
at 250 1000 ” at ~ d 1000
11/ Prize Gifts
£15,000
aii _ Uo V G I s > 0ney.
ah ,. ’ ** uuey
*» the
Of slm!S& Wi1 ' tftke place a Committee
• __ w - BTJRNIfARl).
L* MaSCOTTE CONS ULT A T T QMS.
MELBOURNE CUP, 188.5.
10,000 shares at 10s. each.
£5000
1st Horse ,.
3nd „
3rd „
Starters
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
£2000
1000
500
300
300
1000
£5000
I > !' < * s J )ec t''8 OR application.
tbe Publiclo.
t» a continuance of their PASSES
Application, by letter only,
BoS 723. Sydney! iamber8 ’ Hunter *
A*BBOO on
rr, — MELBOURNE
O'Mr 1883 ~ 1
“ a' 1 TT C' l 'T* r x» C * n t U 1 tati ° n 0f my 1888 Series.
“ u STBAIASIA”
CU p,
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.-An ofc^,£] E P '
£1000
500
250
150
100
Prizes at £25-£250
10- 500
5— 350
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide
Non-Starers .. ,,,,
The eventTlnd^ 1 ’ £3a » 1C0 °
nouuco the next on * hn' e i5vfiv induces me to an-
« racing event of the above’ UP> tht ‘
war^ed^to^l^subscrllmi^^nnnnd and for *
chances— not one onlv n l s f !Curea four
for all expenses. Tppllcante P aM rem.« dedutrt «l
close notes, P.O.O.. or erfVs«f.n r r®v,^ ques t? d to ©n-
exchange must be added) «nH i > Boones (to which
and result. ReVLterSets 8ta,np8 Ior re ' ,ly
Address—“ AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN, '
Printer and Publisher.
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
66
D
M
N
D,’
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 30,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
First Horse..
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide.
Non-starters .
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS
£3000
2000
1000
1000
500
3 Prizes of £250 each, £500
5 Prizes of 00 rju\
10 Prizes of 50 ’ \$
30 Prizes of 25 k/ki
50 Prizes of 10 ” ooo
£10,000
Application by 1 stamp" to
Care of O. Sehieblich,
17 r UH Jn tC n- ,Dak . er and Jeweller,
p.i.lt,*od«'U?ri amwl '». “4 Horse.
per return post, prospectus 8eDt
Letters containing cash should beregisterod
If country cheques, must bear exchange d '
! f» SSS?'■i„ m pS“‘^.SSSSSS*
seasons, invifes their cooperation & the* abov^.’
<£3000 For a*, on. <£3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNEpor HALF-A-CROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on tho xt-t
BOURNE CUP. 1883. on the MEL *
To be Run on the 6th November.
puK ssMsasssy if 1 «■ *» fo
''“rapoMibte dfisss? of
CAPITAL. 80,000 S& of
vaI, UHCD.
aslohowlf- °°° PrizeS and distributee
1st horse ..
2nd horse ,.
3rd horse
Starters divide
Non-starters do.
30 Prizes at £50
£3000
1000
500 I
500 I
250
10(X)
40 Prizes at £25
do.
do.
do.
10
.£1000
. KiOo
5 .. 1000
1 • ■ 750
We s'hah send it tickets for abound
than Z sent to any single address u, * , A'”' J ,co
cheques, or bank notel if d - ? rder
exchange at the rate of Is it. t ill P , sent * a,il
“Sw&fsss
1 *"■
Ss to o ar 8 L e &s j, i
and advertised throughout the coloniS mte,y ’
... ,, Tickets sent by return post
ChaPeo -
• ■£!(»,000
Not less
W. M. WALLACE
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and magazines received n*
every Mall, 7
' ROYAL ARCADE, 49C GEORGE 8 T.. SYDWEtf
//=*=
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
bass pale ale.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY AIL STOREKEEPERS ANT) WINE
MERCHANTS,
Virgoe, Son, & Chapm an
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring- Street,
Sydney,
Have ahv ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. OAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A-MELVm and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
0. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS,
lor Price and Quality have no equal.
e “ p srA E r«K T A v „4S D stock
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &c.
Repairs by London workmen. -
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STRb'H'.T.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
r P°W°^ N P I fi®,F R ? of WHISKEY & BRANDY
At L'bu U S S THAIT L M^ D WH #
oldest and purest spirit* imported. NUY ftre the
Tucker & co., Agents,
377 Georg e-street.
JJUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM. 404 George St.,
near King-street. ’
from°C6l. renCh ° alf ° r Kid ’ 8uperlor Quality,
Superior Ladies’ Extra Hiarh G)ne« ma
r superior quality, from 10s 6d on
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a 4«. 6d.
]\f E L B O U R NE CUP, 18 8 3
LEVtATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY
CAPITAL, £30,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
634 PRIZES (more or less), £13,750 for STARS
and £(3o0 for HORSES. ’
Plan of Astronomical Distribution
SeeldHore (^ inner ° f the Melbourne Cup)
Third Horse
Starters (divide).. ",
Non-starters (do)
*f* First Star
*** Second Star ..
*** Third Star ..
£3000
1500
750
800
1300
... £3000 ***
.. 1000 ***
.500 V
!3 stars of £300 each, 100 stars of £100 each m
stars of £50 each, 30 stars of £40 each 45stars of
Ube41 a 8^
voa P 8 ? 1 t iree ye ar8 . and in consequence of the
increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
submit. Pr0gramme ’ which he b egs herewith to
All parties are requested to forward drafts p r»
°rders, or cheques; If cheques, exchange
added, and in ail oases postagefeevlf SSSf
SIS- r ‘ W o,S£ h i£
west, fflourne^'Boi raToi 1
21


Thirty years ago Ave “drifted” into war
yvith Russia. To-day, France is repeating the
lesson with China. But, like the goat in the fable,
she is descending into a pit from Avhich escape is
difficult. There are many reasons why she should
look round before taking the final plunge. We
know of one Avhich—if they were aware of It—
would Induce the mercurial Gauls to pause. Some
years ago there was a tailor in Sydney. He was a
private soldier, lived in the Paddington barracks'
and augmented his princely income by “ cabbage.”
Every shell-jacket or tunic the officers sent for
repair Avas returned minus something—a hook,
a button, or an inch of lace. So things Avent on,
until the artist had sufficient clippings to clothe a
squadron of Sir Edivard Strickland’s Manly Hussars.
Then ho deserted, Avas captured, took 35 lashes
without a smile, and spent three months among
the elite of Darlinghui'St. Again he “ran”—and
distanced his pursuers. He took his “ clippings ”
Avith him, built them into uniform—but not uni-,
formity—on board, and landed en militairc in
China without a sou, but with a Avardrobe as
bizarre as a Colorado Cowboy’s. Fortune
smiled upon him and Favouritism marked
him for her oavii. Chinese Goi’don was dis-
tributing conical shell among the “Taeplngs”
Avho came aci'oss the line of fire Avhen our sartoxdal
friend obtaixxed his llx'st commission. Having ac-
quired the art of knowing how to fight and to
conquer, and the no less necessary art of hoxv to
fight and to run, the Chinese Empix-o became his
oyster. The Tacpings were put down or blown up,
and Gordon found a sphere of usefulness in Upper
Egypt, so our tailor became and is now “ General-
issimo” of the Celestial forces. We have been
obliged to omit the most stirring episodes of his
adventurous career. If, hoAvovor, the French re-
presentative accredited to the Court of Noav South
Wales have the interest of his country at heart, he
Avill advise his Government that how despicable
soever a Chinese coluxnn may be xvhen led by a
Mandarin of three buttons, it is quite another
thing when the direction of affaii’S is ixx the hands
of a Sydney tailor. Now’s the time for the entex--
prising people Avho the other day tried to get up a
filibustering expedition to New Guinea. Lot them
steal some firemen’s xxnlforms. Good Templars’
scarves, Masonic aprons, and Oddfellows’ collars,
and clear for China, taking Avith them a few cases
of reaping-hooks and a dog-Avhistlo each, and they’ll
all bo made Generals.
There were 546 illegiti-
mate children in N.Z. last
year. Otago heads the list
with 163. Not bad this even
for a Calvinistic community !
A teacher up North,
who is secretary of the local
School of Arts, recently sent
out circulars to magistrates,
&c., asking them to sub-
scribe. No response. Then
ho sent them a card : “ Read-
ing taught in 20 lessons.”
Venom.
The wife of Prince
Henry of Prussia has been
delivered of a princess. So
say the dailies. It Avas at
first thought to have been a
daughter, but the mistake
arose from the telegraph
clerk’s not understanding
German.
A lady at a recent
London dinner party Avas
dressed excessively low. An-
other lady, Avho was sitting
Ute-a-tite, made inquiry ot a
gentleman sitting next to her
Avho the lady opposite was ?
Me replied, “ She is a Russian
lady moving in the highest
circles, and her name is
Madame Cheraisoff, late Orl-
Oii.”
The old story. Down
by the muddy Edxvards—at
that thriving capital of the
rolling plains, Deniliquin, a
foolish girl has been and
gone and done it. “ Dolly
Woods and her stepmother,”
says the telegrams, “have
been committed for infanti-
cide.” Noav where’s the
seducer? Where’s Dolly’s
beau ? Is he in a bank, or is
he in a pulpit as a local-
preacher ? Does he Avear the
blue uniform, or does he
teach Sunday school ?
Miss Mary Blanksou of ‘ ‘Blank ton” College,
Woollahra, felt unwell. She said she “ could not
breathe freely from constant sharp pain in heart,
frequent palpitation, dry, hacking cough, no appe-
tite, vomiting large quantities of blood, cold
shivers, followed by hot perspirations, was greatly
emaciated, could not walk without fainting, &c.
&c.” Mary’s case was a peculiar one. She tried
twelve doctors but no two of them agreed as to
what particular screw was loose in her system.
Some said she wanted one thing and some another.
One went so far as to say that if she were taken to
pieces and put together again, with a convolution
let out here and a piece of slack tautened up
there, she might worry along till the next transit
of Venus. Then he advised her to get married.
But Mary knew better. She tried Dr. M’Haggis,
and published the result in the Evening Noose.
“I consulted Dr. MTIaggis two months ago,
and I am happy to say he had me all right
In a few weeks. I cannot recollect of ever
being as well as I am now.” That of is good.
Mary’s symptoms were something like ours-dif-
ference of sex being allowed for. Of the two,
however, our case was a bit more complicated.
When we first called upon Dr. M‘Haggis, that
scientist having completely overhauled us, sat on
his stethoscope and sent for a policeman. We had
run through the whole gamut of Victorian prac-
titioners. Fitzgerald, Beaney, Gillbee, L. L. Smith
(late residence of the Governor) of Melbourne, and
M’Gillivray, Hinchclitfe, Colquhoun, and Oyster
(Be unscheidtis and leather-worrier) of Sandhurst,
had stated their private convictions that, with the
exception of fatty degeneration of the heart, cir-
rhosis of the liver, tubercles in the lungs, a ten-
dency to hydrocele, chronic hydrocephalus, vari-
cose veins, bunions, necrosis ot the hip, cancer of
the stomach, hydatids, Bright’s disease, spinal cur-
vature, club foot, ebriositis, a black eye, and con-
genital Idiocy, there was little the matter. This
was re-assuring, but yet we felt a bit off colour.
Oyster was the only Victorian artist who would
tackle the cancer, but then he is a specialist.
Apprenticed to the shoe-making at a tender
age, his boyhood, adolescence, .and prime had
been devoted to the peculiarities of the brad-
awl and the eccentricities of wax-end. From
the cure of “soles” to that of bodies is but
a step, and he took it. He receives his fees every
Monday morning at the Sandhurst police court.
But to resume. All former attempts were merely
palliative until we called on MTIaggis, of Sydney.
After one box of his patent magic compound
resuscitating pills (37 in a box) we feel a new vista
opening for us in life. Two things alone remain
to complete our happiness and restore our peace
of mind. One is to meet Miss Mary Blankson, of
Rivere College, Woollahra, at the mouth of a shaft
when no one is looking, and the other is to be
carrying a pickaxe when Dr, M‘Haggis calls for his
fee.
WHY I MISSED THE COORT.
I avas to report the proceedings of the Coort on
Monday, Mr. Editor, but I wasn’t there. It’s now
Monday night, and the Binch is after being carried
out, and before I lie down I must Avrite you an
account of why I missed the important duty that
you gave me to do. Mrs. Sixpenny', the landlady,
says I ought to lie down first, but Isays, “Niver,
Mrs. Sixpenny, niver! Duty first and the floor
after !” So she comes back in half an hour, and
says, “Mr. Reporter,” says she, “I thought y r e
might want the ink-bottle. Here it is.” “Ma’am,”
says I, “I have ink in plenty; I’m doav half
through ray report.” “ But,” says she, looking
over my shoulder, “no one will be able to read
that, for it’s in the ale ye’re dipping yer pen. Ooh,
Mr. Editor, there’s four sheets of gospel intelli-
gence that had tn go behind the fire ! “Ma’am,”
says I, “lave me in me soitoav. If I was a man
that Avas a slave to the bottle that wouldn’t have
happened, for the beer avouM have been drunk.
LaA'e me in mo sorroAV, ma’am!” So she left me>
and I now begin again.
Well, Mr. Editor, on Saturday' last, me and the
other loading reporter left the Coort and Avent
into the hotel opposite. We arranged that
on the next day, which Avas Sunday', I Avud
take the Baptist Church, Collins-street, Avhere
the Rev. D. Jones Hamer Avas to preach,
and the other leading reporter Avud take
St. George’s Presbyterian Church, St. Hilda,
where the Rev. J. Laurence Rcntoul, M.A., Avas to
hold out. Well, Ave found out what their texts
Avere, and we anew the books they were last read-
ing, and Ave began masing ourselves up in the
topics, so that the discourse Avould he easy to fol-
Ioav. Ye knOAv, the Rev. D. Jones Hamer is called
a “ coming man.” For meself, I don’t know Avhere
bo’s “coming,” but that’s neither hero nor there.
He’s a black-faccd, black-bearded lad, and Avhin he
SAvingshis arms and cries out, “Come an te hi wen!
Como an te hivven!” he minds me, for all the
’ world, of Captain Armit Avhin he used sool on the
black troopers up North. Have ye ivver seen the
Rev. J. Laurence Rentoul ? He's a wee lad, Avith
hardly any hair except the ejebrows. His nose
goes away back gently, and ye have to go behind
him to see the finish of it. He swings one arm
until it is tired, and thin ho puts it behind his back
and swings the other. He has also another gesture,
which makes the ladies admire his preaching very
much. He says “Onglond” for “England,” and
“ Oven ” for “ Heaven,” and ho quotes more out of
Tennyson than out of the Bible. Well, Mr. Editor,
we wore comparing those things, and keeping the
dust out of our throats, and the time went on.
Now, Mr. Editor, wo didn’t go out anywhere on
that night, as we wanted to be in time for church
next morning, and the first thing I hoars was the
other leading reporter saying to me from the sofa
opposite, “By Jove, I think it’s Sunday. Isn’t
it?” I looked up from my sofa, and says I,
“ That’s true, for yesterday was Saturday.”
Wo then went to the window and looked at the
sun, and there wo saw it was about ten o clock.
“ By Jove,” says the other loading reporter, “ I
must be off to St. Hilda, or the wee professor ’ll
not speak again of the ‘gigantic influence and
humanising power of the Press.’” And I tidied
meself up and went down to Collins-street.
I'm doing me best to come to the point at once,
Mr. Editor, but the whole thing is like a garden
wall with broken glass stuck on the top. Festina
lengthy is the way to get over it.
As I travelled along the streets, I couldn’t be-
lieve my eyes. There wasn’t a sign of the Sabbath
to be seen. Shops were open, and trade was going
on. Some were building houses, some were dig-
ging the streets, and everything was just as on a
week-day. I rubbed my eyes at every corner to
make sure I was not dreaming, for I could not be-
lieve that Freethought had blossomed out so sud-
denly. At last I got to Collins-street; but the
church door was closed and the windows shut, and
I was told the Rev. D. Jones Hamer had gone to a
political meeting at Carlton. “ It’s true, then,”
says I, turning back to my hotel with a
heavy heart; “Secularism has triumphed, and
Sunday, with its grand old traditions, is wiped
out!” I was sitting meditating on these things,
when the other leading reporter came in from St.
Hilda. His face was pale, and he dropped on the
sofa with a sigh. “8t Hilda,” says he, "is sccu-
lax-ised. It has gone OA'er bodily to Walker. The
’buses are running, the public houses are open, the
people are buying and selling, and the churches
are shut!” “ Alas ! ” says I, “ it’s the same in East
Melbourne. It’s the same all through the city !’’
Then we both Avept for the dear old day of our
childhoed. Ooh, Mr. Editor, we felt as if our best
fx-iend Avas taken suddenly from us. We felt we
wex'e orphaned and alone; and, after copious
shedding of teax-s, the other loading x’oporter says
to me, says he, “ We must communicate the intel-
ligence to England.” So Ave Avx'ote out a cable
for the English papei'S for Avhich we have the
honour to be corx’espondents, in the following
Avoi’ds :—
“The annihilation of the Sabbath at tho Anti-
podes is complete. For some time back tho Aus-
tralian press has been flippant and cynical in all
that concerned the reverence of its ancient cha-
racter ; and heads of the Chux-ch, and laymen dis-
tinguished by lives of honoui'ablo public service,
have helped to undermine an observance which
in our youth we looked upon as the nc plus ultra
of sanctity. It is gone, it is gone. And it
has not fallen under attacks from enemies Avith-
out, but under the feet of friends within.
To-day the shops ax - o open, tho churches are shut.
No organ peals forth to-day, no belfry rings out
the music of a saci’ed serA'ice. But the saveloy-
man shrieks his Avares, and tho barmaid dispenses
her nobblers. In Melbourne—the cardinal point of
Australian life, the heart of the Southern empire
which is noAV budding forth—the hammers of Avork-
men are resounding* and the vegetable carts are
trundling along. To men educated in tho old
school, the change is little less thaix a shock. And
the most painful part of the sad x - e\'olution lies in
the apathy, the undisguised apathy, ot the clerical
order. They have gone on tho stream, and the
Pi-ess to-day has to chronicle the abomination of
desolation standing in the holy pi ces! ”
Wo sent the message down to Elizabeth-street,
and were giving Avay to our grief, Avhen the Binch
was carried in.
“ H’m—ha—Avhy,” asked tho Binch,” Avere ye not
over to-day? I had to struggle through, but I
missed the Press badly.”
“Ah,” sighed we, “and you were in the swim,
too. Poor departed Sabbath—ignored, cast out,
violated in all parts of this great city!”
“ Had fifty drunks this morning,” said the Binch;
“same every Monday.”
“ What ?” cried we—“ Monday!”
“Yes,” says the Binch.
“ Isn’t this Sunday ?” says we.
Ooh, Mr. Editor, the Binch was right; and we
had to send another cable to the English papers
saying “Mistake re Annihilation of Sabbath. It’s
Monday. Must have slept since Saturday.”
That’s why, Mr. Editor, I missed the Coort.
Two hundred and thirty-six boxes of
Chinese bones, rame into the harbour lately. They
were consigned to China. This suggests to us that
there is a splendid opening for a smart man to
start a trade in ancestors over there. But we for-
get; the demand for ancestors in this country is
greater than the supply. Which suggests a fresh
idea. Why not tit out our aristocracy with these
Mongolian relics ? They would be “ high ” enough
for the haughtiest taste, and could be sold cheap
enough to suit the pockets of the poorest.
In the Commons Committee on corrupt
practices Mr. Labouchere proposed to insert the
to-lowing in the measure:—“A parliamentary
candidate who accepts a title within three years
after his defeat, or a person who, being a member
of the House of Commons, accepts a title, or a
person who, having been a member of the House
Commons, accepts a title within three years alter
he has ceased to be one, except for eminent, ser-
vices rendered to a political party, shall be liable to
be imprisoned, with or without hard labour, for a
term not less than one year, and to be fined any
sum not less than one thousand pounds.” That’s
the sort of thing want here—only a little more
stringent.
if we had an enemy we hated too much
to be satisfied with merely killing him, we should
send him to Auckland N.Z., to be a journalist. We
can’t think of anything worse than this. Even a
suburban alderman is an archangel, when com-
pared with some Auckland journalists. Steel your
nerves while we give you a few specimens of the
courtly language made use of in newspapers over
there; they are all taken from one paragraph in a
short leading-article In the Free Lance:— “ Idiotic
yelping . . . obnoxious little cur . . . powerful
profanity . . . rag . . . yelper . dog .
little, dirty, yelping cur . . . mongrel pup
wretched hounds . . . ridiculously idiotic trash
whelp ...” All these polished epithets
applv to the other paper, of course. Poor devils!
how hungry they must be to write iike this.
The Rev. Mr. Shaw, so the cable says, de-
mands compensation from the French Govern-
ment for having been placed under arrest in
Madagascar. Mr. ShaAV has evidently not read
his A3sop. Is it not compensation enough to have
got out of the scrape? Let him remember what
the Avolf said to the stork.
Tom Price, the member for Wide Bay (Q.),
has, Ave are informed on good authority, been re-
quested many times by his admu-ors to give up
politics for literature or at least to combine the two.
But he won’t. Only ixoav and then flash out on his
behalf such gems of diction as the folloAving. They
ax-e from the Maryborough Chronicle:—” Wide
Bay Electors.—Tom Price is Coming with all his
usiall kicks he is not frighten don’t forget him.”
And:—“ Wide Bav electorate. Vote for Price, in-
dependent of parfys. One that as done avcII tex-
tile district and Avithstood the Buffeting Slander
ane abuse for he last 4i years, he again cums
forward to contest the opinions and good Avishes
Politically and othex-wise of his fellow men
and hangs to no Political tail to carry him
through.” The remark of Chancellor Oxenstiern,
“Myspu, noAv you see by what fools the wo< Id is
governed," does not apply here. But we knoxv
similar cases where it does apply.
The other day, one Buckland got a verdict
against a Northern neAvspaper man for libel. Noav,
Ave see in the Charters To avers Herald a letter
addressed to the newspaper man aforesaid, “per
faA'our of the editor,” by the same Buckland, Avho
tolls the journalist, among a variety of other
things, “ you are tho most reliable liar in the
colonies. . . . One thing I don’t do, my dear six-,
and that is, give a poor widow half-n-crown, and then
induce her to advertise her thanks in my paper at
a cost of five shillings !!! . • • You have been up-
held to the gaze of the Avorld as a thoroughly un-
principled liar." What’s sauce for the goose at
Charters Towers is evidently not sauce for the
gander. Tho North Queensland libel law surely
doesn’t apply to Mr. Thomas Buckland.
We sse from the Gunnedah Indepen-
dent's report of a bullock-stealing case at the
Quarter Sessions, that “ at one o’clock the Court
adjourned for luncheon, after which Mr. Colonna-
Close in a masterly and eloquent speech ot an
hour’s duration addressed his Honor in his client's
favour. We scarcely think that the Gunnedah
Court-house ever witnessed such a display of foren-
sic eloquence within its Avails befoi-e, even Avhen
poor Walter Cooper defended a case here. The
Court was crowded throughout.” Yes, the local
Advertiser promised the public “a treat” in
connection with the visit of Colonna, and noxv we
notice from the other local paper that thqy'A'e had
it. Happy Gunnedah, Avhich is thxxs privileged to
dx-ink in by the hour the aromatic eloquence of
the descendant of the Frangipanis!
The spirit of G. P. R.
James must haunt the office
of the Vespernal Liar,
else hoAv account for this ? :—
“At a late hour Tuesday
night an elderly man of her-
culean frame, but avIio never-
theless looked sick and tired
of his life, and Avho bore the
impress of a concealed
trouble on his broiv, entered
the Central Police Station,
and stated in a haggard voice
that ho Avished to see the
officer in charge.” The “ hag-
gard Amice” is simply im-
mense. AVhy not “broken
countenance,” too ?
One of the latest im-
provements at Flemington
Racecourse is a suite of
rooms for the ladies, fully
six hundred feet long alto-
gether, and costing about
£25,000. These will bo com-
pleted in time tor the next
Spring meeting, when the
ladies, Avho so often carry
small fortunes on their backs,
Avill not have much cause to
dread that Avet Aveather will
spoil the chef d'a’uvres of
Worth and other fashionable
artists. Just imagine, mag-
nificently furnished rooms,
tivo hundred yards long,
tilled Avith beauty and fashion
the creme de la creme ot Aus-
tralia—tor, extensive as the
accommodation will be, it
Avill not be found at all too
much should Jupiter Pluvius
patronise the meeting, bo
increasingly great are the
crowds who flock to Flem-
iugton on a Cup day, that,
eventually, “the hill” will,
no doubt, be extended all
round the course, encircling
the grand-stand at its base,
and the Avhole forming an
amphitheatre larger than
ever was dreamt ot by the
ancient Roman.
Chicken hazard—buying shop eggs.
Uu the window of a Sydney fishmonger, is
painted the motto ; “ De mortuis nil nisi bonum.”
Which, being freely and piscatorially translated,
means, we suppose, “Never cry (ahem) stale fish.”
Ismail on our bailiff Tewtlk (as reported
by De Blowitz of the Times) Tewflk, like all
feeble natures, is always ready to conspire against
those above him, and against whom ho does not
dare openly to stand up. Ho will always prefer to
associate with those who are the enemies of his
masters rather than with their friends, and if he
does not conspire himself he is delighted to know
j that others are conspiring. Powerless but refrac-
i tory people always revenge themselves in that
way.” We should iike to hear the Khedive's
j opinion of his deposed papa. Herald, please copy.
. .Muley Hassan, Sultan of Morocco and “Absolute
j Ruler of True Believers,” is probably one of the
j richest sovereigns in the world. His treasures of
■ gold, silver, and gems are buried a hundred feet
' deep, surrounded by tenfold walls of alternate
1 stone and metal, fifty feet thick. They are reached
i through a subterranean labyrinth of intricate de-
scription, and are guarded by armed Africans who,
j having once entered this service, never again
j ascend to the light of day. God save the people-
Early in July, in the Commons. Mitchell
j Henry, the member for Galway, amid much
laughter, gave notice of his intention to move,
; that Mr. Speaker direct the Serjeant-at-Arms to
I exclude from the Reading Room the journal
I called Truth, on the ground that it is the pr°’
perty of a member who employs it for the purpose
| of vilifying his fellow-members, contrary to good
manners and the unwritten law of Parliament.
Rough on Labby Parnell predicts the introduc-
tion ot a Self-government Bill for Ireland- . •
.t propos of Poverty and Pi ogress. In France, where
the visitor generally remarks only splendour ana
luxury, there are 319,270 houses without an>
i window whatever, and in these huts an average ot
six inhabitants ; in short, 1,300,000 who are lodged
! Averse than ordi ary dogs. The legal number m
j duly licensed chiffonniers is only 6U00; but alter
! the Avar many workmen having lost their skill, ut
i their Avorkshops having been closed, adopted tnc
i rag-picker’s hook and basket and became bi («»■ •
, The number of these gutter-gropers is supposed
: uoav to be between thirty and forty thousand,
j Most of them have seen better days ; aim Jutes
Claretie has discovered one literary biffin Avne
| remembers his Greek and quotes Homer.
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 31 Pitl-st., Sydney, N-B.”-
A little Sketch at Rand wick. By a (lately) born gen ms.
