

THE BULLETIN
Vol. l.—No. 5.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1883.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1883.
Nationalisation of Land.
broadly true; and, in certain cases, George’s
conclusion is inevitable. All depends upon
the manner in which property in the land
passed from the possession of the people at
large into the hands of the few. If, as in the
case of Ireland and England, it was appro-
priated by fraud and confiscation, then
recovery without compensation or by re-
confiscation might be even justice. We need
not here pause to retrace the historical record
of private property of land in these countries.
It is sufficient for us that our own case is
different. Here the transference of land
into private hands is of such recent date that
there is no difficulty in tracing it. There has
of late been considerable fraud. Earlier there
was undue favour. But, broadly regarded,
the alienation has been voluntary. An act
of stupidity, probably, but still a transaction
It is worty of remark that the deductions
arrived at by Messrs. Morris and Ranker,
after consideration of the voluminous evi-
dence collected by them from all classes of
land users in this colony, tally in the
essential point with the conclusions inde-
pendently formed by almost every consider-
able authority of late years on the subject
of property in land. “ A system of leasing
the public lands is preferable to selling them.
This appears to be the only means whereby
a large population can be settled in the pas-
toral districts and enabled to become pros-
perous, by being freed from the class-con-
flicts that have hitherto produced so terrible
a waste of money and energy. ’ ’ The foregoing
is extracted from Messrs. Morris and Ran-
ker's summary. With lands the freeholds of
which are already in private hands,these gen-
tlemen do not concern themselves. There is,
ii (deed, a statement that some of the largest
free-holders in Riverina have expressed their
willingness to surrender their properties
upon receiving back the actual cost exclu-
sive of improvements, provided they were
granted a lease for 21 years of these surren-
dered lands and of the balance of the area
now constituting their runs, at a rental
equal to 4 per cent, on their value. But this
is merely thrown in, in its crude form, as
collateral information, and no attempt is
made to base any propositions upon it. The
suggestions by Messrs. Morris and Ranker
are in fact strikingly guarded and modest
when contrastedwith the theories of agrarian
reform which are daily receiving increased
currency in acceptance. The tendency of
property in land to accumulate in few hands
has forced itself upon attention in older and
more populous countries, for the reason that
the entire construction of modern society is
regarded as endangered by the social irregu-
larities which are the fruits of so unequal a
partition. Many schemes have been pro-
pounded with the view of averting the peril
foreseen. The older the country, the
longer the existence of vested proprietorial
“rights;” and the denser the population
expropriated, the more acute is the danger,
and the more difficult the remedy.
* * *
John Stuart Mill proposed simply to fix
the present value of land in private hands,
and to appropriate to the State all future
increase in rental values, to which he gave
the name of “ unearned increment.” It is
the labours of the many which enhance the
value of the land, not the industry of the
possessor. Hence the possessor should not
reap what he has not sowed. Mill con-
sidered, as a suitable example, the instance
°f Ireland, “The land of Ireland,” he
wrote, “ the land of every country belongs
to the people of that country. The indi-
viduals called land-owners have no right in
morality and justice to anything but the
renter compensation for its saleable value.”
To this moderate view of the subject Mr.
Henry George, the latest and most radical
writer on the subject, takes exception, and
observes wRh trenchancy: “ In the name of
the Prophet, figs! If the land of any
country belong to the people of that
country, what right, in morality and justice,
have the individuals called land-owners to
the rent ? If the land belong to the people,
w hy, in the name of morality and justice,
should the people pay its saleable value
t°r their own ? ” There is no loophole of
escape for Mill from this dilemma. But
* e ar e under no obligation to accept
I s premises. There is danger in too
diffusive generalisations. Mill’s statemeu t is
countenanced, by the people at large. In the
main, private landholders in Australia gave
value for their land ; and were it considered
wise policy to resume possession, they have
an equitable claim to compensation.
• • •
As yet, however, the pinch which begins to
be felt in older and larger communities has
not even commenced to be appreciable here.
In this respect, our circumstances are su-
premely fortunate. The most recent dis-
coveries of political economy are available
to us, and we are free to apply them to our
affairs without inviting a struggle of classes,
and without any disturbance whatever.
We can very comfortably permit private
property to exist side by side with a
national system, trusting to the latter,
as certain to be the greater—to ultimately
swallow the former, the lesser. A gentle
application of Mr. Mill’s plan of claiming
the unearned increment from lands in pri-
vate hands would prevent such lands acquir-
ing a value in excess of the national hold-
ings, and would dispose the freeholders to
part with their exclusive vested rights on
terms mutually satisfactory. It is possible,
therefore, to disregard the land already
alienated altogether, if the conception of
appropriating the unearned increment be
adopted. Thus we can pass on undisturbed
to the consideration of the best plan for
dealing with the unalienated balance. As
this still constitutes the bulk of the public
estate, the question is one of the most
stupendous importance. It should be con-
sidered, in the first place, that the idea of
the State being the universal landlord is not
a revolutionary novelty. The exact contrary
is perceived to be the ease when the subject
is historically considered. It is private pro-
perty in land which is really the novelty.
Even in England it has only been existent
for some 220 years, prior to which the land
was in the custody of individuals in trust
for the community, and chargeable, if not
with money rent, with rental to be paid in
services to the State. Any alarm at the idea
of naturalising land, as an untried experi-
ment, may, therefore, be dismissed. The
system has been at the root of all agrarian
management. Private appropriations have,
in every instance, been abuses of a pre-
existent system.
* * *
Seeing that all modern authorities agree in
urging the advantages which accrue to a
community by nationalisation of its land in
lieu of private ownership, and, considering
that we in New South Wales would enjoy
exceptional immunities from internal dis-
turbance in availing ourselves of such a
system, it is to be hoped that, when a new
land system is framed, it will be found that
the Government will have had the courage
as well as the insight to inaugurate the leas-
ing system, as recommended by the Com-
missioners. Messrs. Morris and Ranker
have been singularly and studiously careful
in the estimates of financial results which
they claim will be arrived at if the
leasing or national system be adopted. They
predict merely a constant income somewhat
in excess of the terminable realisations
annually secured by the Treasury in the past.
They only venture to advance that, under a
leasehold plan, an immediate revenue of a
million sterling might be anticipated, with a
rapid increase to a million and a half. This
would exceed the average annual receipts
from auction sales during the last twenty
years by quarter of a million sterling. That
the Commissioners have not overstated their
case is apparent. They estimate the best
available unsold grazing lands at an annual
rental value of 6d. per acre, and cut the
figure for inferior land as low as l>£d. per
acre. In support of these valuations, the
Church and School lands are adduced as a
case in point. These lands, leased for seven
years, with right of renewal for two further
successive periods of seven years, at an
increase of 20 per cent, in the rental of each
expired term, realise for the first seven years
from Is. 2>£d. down to l%d. per acre; the
lowest figure being for lands described as
inferior fourth-class grazing.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Northern Prospects.
The Parliament of Queensland Is summoned for
dispatch of business on the 26th of this month.
There seems some likelihood that when the Par-
liament does meet it will proceed to the dispatch of
of the present Administration. It is exceedingly
doubtful whether Sir Thomas MTlwraith’s great
transcontinental land-grant railway projects con-
tinue to have a firm hold on any distinctive party
in or out of political circles in Queensland. Cir-
cumstances have materially altered since the appli-
cation of the plan first entered Into the head of the
present Premier of Queensland, and was, charac-
teristically enough, pirated and announced as his
own by the late Mr. Macalister. At that epoch
certain arguments had a special potency, due to
the circumstances of the colony. These arguments
are still trotted out, but the circumstances which
gave them force have sensibly altered. The mone-
tary credit of the colony was relatively much lower
than it stands at present. That is to say, its neces-
sities were more immediate and urgent, and the
disposition of lenders less favourable. To borrow
seven or eight millions for a railway from no place
in particular to no where in general appeared then
an inconceivable operation. And country lying
between the indefinite points indicated as the pro-
posed termini was a shadowy sort of no-man’s-land.
There was a vague sort of grandeur about the pro-
ject which charmed the popular imagination. Get a
thousand miles of railway for a million or so square
miles of land in the moon or thereabouts I Who
could*hesitate ? The principal doubt was whether
any set of men would be infatuated enough to risk
their money on so airy an enterprise. To-day, all
that is altered. The points of departure have
become sharply defined. Allotments may be
bought in one, and people know enough of the
other to chafe at the prospect of not being able to
buy allotments there, too. The dim vista of no-
man’s-land, through which the railway was to
travel, has emerged from its dubious mirage-like
condition, and has been ascertained to be very
real. It is no-man’s-land no longer. On the con-
trary, it is for the most part occupied as squat-
tages, held by individuals who are by no means
disposed to surrender their leases. Then, again
the Impossibility of procuring money on loan has
faded away. The British capitalist has, in the
interim, been sharply bitten by his foreign pets.
Peruvian, and Turkish, and Egyptian bonds
THE REV. JOHN OSBORNE.


The Hates of Subscription to The Bulletin,
are—For one year, 24s.; half-year, 12s.; quarter, 6s.
The Advertising Rates are 5s. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Ruin made hot
and taken at bed-time.
1ST PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. TER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department,
MAR SET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
c. w. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
ScL.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR REEK,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDE ILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *+* PALE BRANDY,
Cs. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney.
have proved uncommonly galling. Colonial
investments have risen in favour, as foreign
loans have gathered discredit. There appears now
no real impossibility of constructing the trans-
continental by the colonial authorities. To do so
would involve a diffusion of big contracts among
local men! And big contracts mean big profits,
big circulation of moneys, big business all round.
Hence the squatting party, who in the earlier days
of the project viewed with favour an enterprise
which would open up fresh tracts to them, have
veered round to regard with repugnance a project
which would break up leaseholds now in their
possession. The commercial community begin to
conceive that the ordinary construction by loan
will suit their business best. And the general
public scent general prosperity in a period of con-
tracts and importation of money to be spent by
the ordinary wasteful departmental plan, in lieu of
being handled out with the economy generally
attaching to disbursements by private entre-
preneurs. Altogether, a change has come over the
dream of the Queenslanders ; and if the MTl-
wraith Cabinet adheres to its declared intention
of standing or falling by its land-grant railway
policy, the chances are that it will fall. Mr.
Griffith, the leader of the trading and popular
parties, has secured the alliance of a section of the
ultra-squatters—who object to any monopoly but
their own. The combination is a strong one, and
if Sir Thomas MTlwraith knows how to out-
manoeuvre it, he must be a political strategist of
extraordinary ability.
Sectaries on the War Path.
The incompetence of some persons —whole bodies
of people, even —to understand the very principles
which are the essence of the systems they nomi-
nally represent, is something perfectly astounding.
Thus we had representatives of the Wesleyans—a
sect Avhose very origin of existence embodies a
protest against State recognition of sects—pressing
upon the Chief Secretary of Victoria a demand
that there should be appointed, as trustee of the
Government Savings’ Bank, and as trustee of the
Public Library, men of their creed. That is to say,
that the Wesleyans hold that there is an in-
herent right in their sect to nominate persons
to public positions. By parity of reasoning,
the same right is inherent in every other sect.
The basis of right is a dogma or creed. Wherever
men associate in a common religious belief, a right
of special representation springs into existence.
A wilder or more impracticable proposition was
never vented. There is no rule of proportion by
which the rights of sects could be regulated. The
soundness of a creed cannot be measured by the
number of Its adherents. Even Wesleyans will
surely admit this. A few hundred years ago, the
whole of Europe, broadly speaking, was Roman
Catholic. Here and there were scattered groups
of dissenters, contemned, derided, buffeted—in
every sense of the word, disreputable in the eyes
of the world. Yet their faith was right, and the
faith of the majority was—we speak as Wesleyans
—idolatrous, and begotten of the Scarlet Woman.
Would it have been right that that infinitely small
majority should have been denied representation
in public institutions? Well, every minute, dis.
reputable, contemned, heretical, little batch of
idealists or sectaries has the same claim
to consideration to-day. If a man s religious
opinions constitute a representative right,
how is the right to be apportioned? Amidst
the jar of creeds how are rights to be de-
fined? There is only one way—by lumping the
issues. But this is exactly what has been the
practice, and it is precisely against this that the
Melbourne Wesleyans are moving. The State in
Victoria averages the chances. It selects for
public trusts men who have Avon prominence in
the various phases of accomplishment or ability
Avhich hat’e a bearing upon those trusts. Itappoints
as trustees of Savings banks men avIio are known as
Avorthy of confidence or expert in finance. As
trustees of the Public Library, it selects men who
have made their mark in the departments of
culture or belles-lettres. Wesleyans turn out no
better accountants than Anglicans, or Congrega-
tionalists, or Roman Catholics. Nor do W es-
leyans produce an abnormal proportion of ac-
complished students or literary men. That
should be their aim, if they desire to se-
cure the fullest representation in these trusts.
The fact of a man being a shining light in a par-
ticular sect is worth very little as regards his
general value as a citizen. Mr. Joe Brady was an
office-bearer of a Dublin R.C. chapel, and
for nine years honourably discharged the function
of taking up the collections. The President of the
Glasgow Bank Avas a devout Presbyterian, and his
scruples Avere so acute as to prevent him from
reading the Monday papers because they Avere
printed on Sunday night. Instances might be
multiplied. But the moral is plain enough, that
although convictions Avhich are termed “earnest-
ness” by co-religionists, and “bigotry” by pro-
fessors of other shades of creed, may commend a
man to sectaries, they do not constitute any claim
to good citizenship, or aptitude for public trust.
Vanity.
The periodical shriek respecting the shameless
neglect of the leading English journals to give
prominence to Australian affairs is, we notice, being
r vised by various local journals. There would be
no special occasion for surprise if persons not
journalists raised a lament of this kind. But it
does seem absurd that any conductor of a news-
paper should publish such bosh. Every journalist
must be aware, if he but examines his impressions,
that the main business of his life is to provide the
public with information on such matters as shall
most interest them. Whatever higher mofives
may move the actual writers, the first aim of
newspaper conductors is to sell their sheets. In
order to accomplish this to the utmost, it is
necessary that they should ulace themselves
cn rapport with the readers they desire to
attract, and provide for them information
on such subjects, and in such styles, as shall
create a desire to read-and, as a preliminary, to
buy-their papers. If there were anything in Aus-
tralian affairs which would be, to readers in Great
Britain, of interest superior to the various matters
now dealt with in the Home journals, it is quite
certain that some editor would have the requisite
intuition, and would set himself to substitute news
from Australia for news from Madagascar or Congo.
But, on the face of it, there is evidence that we n. e
most uninteresting communities to general readers.
We have no wars, or assassinations, or appalling
calamities. We move along in a monotonously
smug way, utilising the gifts of nature in our con-
tinent and making money. We constitute the
happy nation which has no history. As records of
events our own newspapers scarcely interest our-
selves. We are perpetually flinging down our
Herald with a “ Pshaw ! nothing in the con-
founded paper!” Yet the voice of complaint is
every now and again raised that the great London
dailies do not publish In each issue half a column
of cable news about our uneventfulness. The
complaint is absurd. Australia is geographically
very large, and prospectively a most interesting
community. But it is politically very small, and
at present very uninteresting, indeed, to out-
siders.
Swearing.
Mr. Archibald Forbes, having had his repose
disturbed by the garnished conversation of certain
Charters Towers cricketers, vented his spleen in
the form of moralisings in a communication to the
S. M. Herald. This is not an extraordinary pro-
ceeding. Nothing is more common than for ran-
cour against individuals to be disguised as concern
for the public good. The Herald hails Mr.
Forbes’ remarks as though they embody a strik-
ing discovery, and fatuously proposes repression
by prosecution and by social boycotting. Now
foul talk is, and has always been, too preva-
lent. The religious turn which the Herald
seeks to give the subject is not worth noting.
So long as swearing enters into every formal
step in public affairs, the State is barred against
consistently prosecuting people for a habit they
may very easily have contracted in their relations
as good citizens. The courts of justice reek with
the worst sort of swearing—not the thoughtless
and unmeaning imprecations of every-day talk (
but oaths deliberately administered, and sworn
with hypocritical solemnity, only to be broken—in
a terrible percentage—with a reckless levity which
militates against the most divine of institutions,
pure justice. The Governor has to swear an oath
on assuming office, the Chief Justice presides over
habitual swearing; Ministers, Parliamentary repre-
sentatives, J ustices of the Peace, Telegraph Opera-
tors, Policemen, all are required by law to swear-
It may be said that the imprecations in such cases
are necessary. Certainly : but it may equally
be denied that they are either necessary or
useful. History fails to record an instance in
which an oath of allegiance prevailed when men
of any station saw their interest in breaking it, or
were so prompted by inclination. Mankind has
ever acted as though the Almighty would certainly
compound for perjury provided the example were
set by persons of distinction, and the crime were
only on a large scale, and led to temporal success.
The religious objection is, in view of these facts,
scarcely tenable. The social objection, however,
is thoroughly good. It is not the irreverence
which has to be quelled, because most oaths are
like Uncle Toby’s— mere tricks of the lips*
unmeaning things which the recording angel blots
out as soon as written. It is the foul talk, the
vile expressions, which degrade current conversa-
tion and contaminate the atmosphere in public
places, which need repression. But before
suggesting a remedy, it will be well to consider
what may be the magnitude of the evil to be
grappled with. The idea of the non-swearing
section of the community putting the law in force
against the rest requires to be carefully treated.
For the fact is that the non-swearing section is a
small minority. Almost everybody uses expletives.
Mr. Archibald Forbes is a curious sort of trooper
if he doesn’t pretty often rap out an oath himself.
One of our most distinguished public men is as
remarkable for the vigour of his oaths as for the
greenness of his old age. Social ostracism of
swearers is not really possible, although it is a
pretty pastoral sort of rubbish to write about.
Society in New South Wales means certain cliques
of persons who have made money—generally from
small beginnings—and probably the very worst
circles in which to seek for a code of refinement
are those which constitute the bulk of so-
called society here—the wealthy lower orders, of
which the Herald i* the recognised organ.
Cowardly Desertion.
The Rev. Mr. Spicer has received very harsh
usage at the hands of his sometime backers. So
long as he was satisfied to lecture against Mr.
Bright and Frcethought to audiences whose
minds were already made up on the subject, and
who, consequently, didn’t need lecturing to, he
was petted and made much of. He got nice long
paragraphs in the papers, and was undoubtedly
patted on the back as a worthy champion and
faithful worker. But, no sooner did he show real
manliness and step forth to prove the efficacy of
the arms of argument which he had been belauded
for flourishing so prettily when there was none to
try their temperand to test their skill, than he was
assailed with murmurs of objection and apprehen-
sion. Those who had up to that moment cried up his
demonstrations as irrefragable, and his polemical
skill as quite remarkable, began immediately to
expose the fact that they had been merely throw-
ing up their hats to encourage themselves, and
were neither so confident about the arguments
standing mauling, nor about the man being a born
conqueror, as their unqualified expressions of ap-
probation and admiration had led people to imagine.
Now that Mr. Spicer’s arguments have been torn
into shreds by Mr. Bright, and himself shockingly
worsted by the same antagonist, Mr. Spicer’s
friends and backers turn away and desert him in
the most heartless and cowardly way. They de-
clare now that they never considered his argu-
ments worth anything, and that, as for him-
self, he has been carried away by a vanity
which they deplore, and is a mere seeker
after notoriety. Now all this is shabby
in the extreme. Mr. Spicer’s arguments were
just the same when delivered to approving
crowds of the applauding orthodox, with
no one to contradict them, as they were when
turned inside out. by Mr. Bright. And if Mr.
Spicer was unduly inflated by the vanity of con-
sidering himself as a stout and capable champion,
the blame is not his, but is clearly attributable to
the people who cackled endorsement of his reason-
ings, and bailed him as a successful controverter
of the teachers of infidelity. The abandonment
of Mr. Spicer Is shabby and cowardly in the ex-
treme, and throws a curious colour upon the char-
acter of the class of persons by whom he was first
“sooled on” to Mr. Bright, and then, when
beaten, disowned and covered with contumely.
Salvation Foragers.
A member of the Salvation Harmy (one Alex-
ander Walker), at Bakewell, recently stole a
fowl. He was fond of poultry, and, seeing a capon
he fancied, he took it. Subsequently he was taken
himself, and, when before the Bench, he patheti-
cally prayed to be discharged on the grounds that
a conviction would, in all probability, annul the
commission of Captain which was on the way out
for him from General Booth. The magistrates,
however, said that if he would steal a fowl when
only a full private, Jumbo wouldn’t be safe from
him when promoted; so Alexander was sent
skimming away in “Black Maria” fora course of
six weeks’ rope-unravelling. We think Mr.
Walker’s uneasiness re his commission is founded
on a bed of sand. As nearly as we can gather, it has
been hitherto required that a member of the
Harmy should have been pretty continually in
trouble in order to allow him (or her) to at-
tain any celebrity in that martial body. We have,
on sundry occasions, heard a lot of the officers
“ pitch ” in different parts, and “ the cursed
drink” appeared to have moved them all to have
stolen articles at different times, varying from a
door-mat to a dinner-set—door-mats, however,
predominating. This is (and it is very little varied)
what they all say “ Kind friends, although you
wouldn’t perhaps think it, I’ve been in trouble
severial toimes. It was the cussed drink as done
it; but the moment I got Grace I became a
haltered man,” etc. “ The New Magdalen,” Mercy
Merrick, in her most affecting speech to Grace
Kosebery in the Prologue, says : “ Do you know
what I am ? I have been in a workhouse. I have
been in a refuge. I have been” (a pause) “in a
gaol.” Mercy Merrick, however, is a remarkably
beautiful and gifted woman, She has no
stumps of black nails, no foot and a half of
upper lip, no cracked bassoon voice, and no
muffin-like complexion. People, therefore,
sympathise with Mercy Merrick, though she has
been in a refuge, a workhouse, and a gaol. They
hear her statement with incredulity; even with
pain and sorrow. But when members of the Harmy
get up and say that they have been riding half
their lives In the “Black Maria,” no one is either sor-
rowful or pained, or sympathising. And most cer-
tainly nobody is the least bit surprised. The
approaching doom of the Harmy may be traced to
this. General Booth has now embodied banking
in his wholesale sinner-curing business, and guar-
antees five per cent, on all deposits. Well, this may
be riirht enough; but some years ago there was a
man who started a Co-operative Bank, and guaran-
teed 10 per cent. to customers. Edmund Yates took
the gentleman in hand, and Labouchere, who
then did the city article for the World, took great
pains to unmercifully traverse every clause in the
prospectus, and smash up the concern. And it is
a noticeable fact that when the manager was ar-
rested for fraud, all that was found in his posses-
sion was an aluminium watch and an eightpenny
bible. This gentleman was as strait-laced as a
member of the Social Purity Society, and as pious
as Frank Warden. And he got seven years. We
don’t say, of course, that we wish our Harmy
would get seven years. We will content ourselves,
at present, by wishing that they would combine
together and steal a fowl. They’d better do that
soon, anyhow, or they won’t be believed in much
longer.
A Treasure of a Treasurer.
The verdict of the jury in the case Mason and
Another v. Watson and Ewan has been heartily
endorsed by the public. It matters little by what
trick of written forms the arrangement between
the parties was worded. The obnoxious fact re-
mains that the defendants, entered into a con-
tract to support comparatively moneyless men in
a Government contract, with only one probable
chance of being repaid for their risk. That one
chance was that the plaintiffs would make money
out of the contract. Brushing aside technicali-
ties and fudge, it is plain that in that sense
Watson and Ewan were partners in the contract.
This is just what the jury decided. Supposing
that Elkington’s story were trumped up, and
that no “ confidential conversations” prior to the
signing of the letter and promissory notes consti-
tuted an express or understood partnership, the
conditions of the transaction involved a joint in-
terest in the success or failure of the speculation.
The terms were perhaps not more than commonly
usurious, but they were usurious all the same, if
they were not partnership terms. Jones is not
relieved from the stigma of usurious dealings
because it can be shown that Smith and Robinson
habitually charge 60 per cent. The case is quite an
enlightening one. Supposing the jury were wrong,
still the pleasing candour or brisk imagination of
Mr. Elkinoton would stand on the same footing
with Mr. Archibald Forbes’ airy sketch of what
a syndicate might do. The public are enabled to
perceive how a member of Parliament might back
up Government contractors without too explicitly
committing himself in writing, and how he might
find it essential to the healthy condition of his
bank account to guard these connections against
any undue severity of Government officials in re-
quiring quality,quantity, and dispatch to be in strict
accordance with contract. It is possible now to con-
ceive what may have been the solution of the
mystery surrounding the frequent instances in
which, for no previously explicable reason, con-
tractors have been indulged, time after time, with
extensions of their contract dates, and other favors
—with some member of Parliament, let alone a
Minister, standing to lose (or to gain) thousands, if
the contractor were prevented by any means from
realizing his profit. If the verdict of the Jury be
sustained, Mr. Watson, ex-Treasurer, stands in a
very awkward predicament. Under the Constitu-
tion Act, he is liable to be sued for an enor-
mous sum by any one who chooses to enter
proceedings against him for sitting and voting
in Parliament while beneficially interested
in a Government contract. It is a pity that the
law should award the amount recovered to the in-
former, as such a disposition of the money tends
to cast a primd facie discredit upon the motives of
the prosecutor, who is liable to be regarded as
I being actuated with a desire for plunder, instead
of being prompted by public spirit. It is quite
delightful to note that Mr. Eekington was the
man who was brought forward by the Parkes-
Watson party to oppose Mr. G. H. Keid at the
East Sydney election—as a free, independent, and
suitable candidate for the premier constituency in
the colony.
The citizens of Sydney are fortunate in having
their interests guarded by officials of rare devo-
tion and acute perception. They have just been
saved by these zealous servants from the calamity
of having an important contract for a public work
allowed to be executed by a firm which had not
complied with the requisite conditions. This is
what happened. Tenders having been called for
the new foundations for the Town Hall, one con-
dition was that a cash deposit of £500 should
accompany each tender. Tenderer A sent in a
cheque marked good by the Oriental Bank. Ten-
derer B sent in sovereigns. Tenderer A gave a
price £3000 less than that offered by tenderer B.
Thus to have accepted the tender of A would have
saved the citizens £3000. But the tender of B was
accepted because A’s marked cheque constituted
an informality. Thus the love of having things
done decently and in order, for which the Town
Hall officials have at all times been celebrated, has
asserted itself. Zeal has carried the day, and the
citizens will pay, with their customary docility,
the £3000 which that zeal has cost them.
At Goulburn, Warn, a local man, raced
Campbell, of Young, 100 yards for £10 a side. Warn
won with difficulty.
That furred tongue, bad tasting mouth and
miserable feeling, says you need Hop Bitters. Read
and believe.
The Queenslanders have pretty accurately
measured up Mr. Archibald Forbes. Says the
Wide Bay News “Archibald is not a parti-
cularly sociable individual, and, with all his brilliant
merit, he has contracted an ugly habit of treating
mere ordinary Individuals with greater contempt
than that prince of egotists, Charles Dickens, used
to adopt. Listen to Mr. Forbes’ lectures, or read
his books; but, under such humble circumstances
as the Maryborough Caledonians can show, he is
much better let alone.’ ’ It’s quite a good job for
A. F. that he has beside him the astute and genial
Smythe, for his own manner is the heaviest handi-
cap with which any showman, from the owner of
the Noah collection downwards, was ever invested.
A stranger, we’ll say, wants to meet Forbes, and
interviews Smythe on the subject. “ Mr. Johnson
wishes to be presented (ahem!) to Mr. Archibald
Forbes,” says Smythe. Should Johnson not be a
millionaire, the great war correspondent bows
stiffly and grunts—doesn’t condescend to shake
hands or to say anything. When among ordinary
people, Mr. Forbes never opens his mouth, except
to put something into it. He abuses us Australians
for our habit of swearing. But, though our taste
may be on a par with Forbes’ Latin, we are not
afraid to say «e’d much rather hear a genial fellow
cuss his own and everybody else’s head off than
watch Mr. Archibald Forbes grunt and frown.


THE NEWSLETTER.
Cesgrare’s son tone© of death is commuted
to imprisonment for life—or deal h, which Is it?
He’s 77.
Let the “Jubherts” and t he exhibition
•hancrers-on at once gird up their 1 oins. There’s to
be a great International Exhibitic ,n at Paris In 188-5.
Bx-Detective Inspector Ha nnan maintains
that *s regards the Bermagui; mystery, the fatal
mischance view, as also the k: idnapping and ab-
sconding theories, must be put aside. The wilful
murder theory he declares tc - be the only one
tenable.
A few days ago, two chi] dren called Betts
•were brought up before a Vic torian magistrate as
noalected. They were so hori ibly depraved that a
school naatron would not let them near the other
children Their own brother was recently charged
with trim Inal assault. And their Christian names
were— Vemus and Virtue I
Hydatids more prevalent than doctors
pore to ne’mlt In Australia Just now. Patients
freauentlr have to boar the Insertion of a tube
front ami Wok In the Ilyins flesh. In this tube the
annthlv cy sts lodge. The»e tubes are withdrawn
and cleansed of tkelr abominable contents once a
day, and time by degrees tho pest is lessened.
The Cooma Express publishes the follow-
ing letter,’.the original, of which is in the hands of
ran notice— Sunday morning,— My dear : Mr.
the _ and myself are going out to
raT 12-mile point to-day. and will be there about
aoviocik. I wp»nt you to go out there and
take a nan at A shovel, as we wont to try prospects.
X send you a ismall parcel of gold—see that you get
a good shew in every pan. A party here is; trying
to throw oold water upon the claim, so the emd will
justify the means—we must have cash to put the
Claim In working order. With kind regards* yours,
& c., •”
At Cairns, N.Q., the Messrs. Swallow have
858 acres, and the Hop Wah (Chinese) Co. 35)0 acres
of sugar-eane to crush this year. It is expected
that this land will yield three tons to the acre,
giving a total product for this season for Cairns of
3120 tone ef sugar. It may be found impossible to
crush all the cane; but if only 2000 tons are made,
the value exported from Cairns at £30 per ton would
be £40,000.
It is probable the will of the late Mr.
Ooatloy (or (Costello) of Auckland, who left over
£100,000 to charities, will be disputed toy a Mr.
Costley, of Christchurch, who claims to be a
brother. He urges that if the deceased had known
of his existence ne would not have forgotten him,
and hints, moreover, at eccentricity so strong as
to suggest Insanity. The will was made, it is said.
Ml T ’.the i day before the millionaire died. The
lawyers will be very happy to look into the matter.
The Eppinc (Tasmania) murderers (Ogden
30, and Sutherland 18) were hanged on the ith inst.
by the Hobart executioner, old Solomon Blay, who
has, during his career as hangman, put to death
•t«t 106 persons. Neither of the convicts slept
during the night. Sutherland’s step on the scaffold
was firm. Ogden, who looked very boyish, and
gsuried a bunch of flowers, trembled violently,
fils mother says that reading a “ History of tho
Kellys” Incited tho lads to crime. Both died
instantly.
The fact that it is proposed to send the
Fenian “ informers ” to West Australia, shows how
utterly ignorant the Colonial Office is of the pro-
vinces under its charge. West Australia abounds
in expirees, tickets-of-leave, exiled Fenians, etc.,
amongst whom these “ informers ” would lead a
life that would be a veritable “hell upon earth:”
that is, supposing they were allowed life at all. Of
all places Australia is the last spot to which they
should be consigned, and the Western colony the
most unfit in that unfit place.
Jury assessed damages against N.S.W.
Marine Board at £5105 for causing loss of the s.s.
Argyle by removing a mark from a reef near
Rocky Mouth, Clarence River. Stifflsb, dear buoy I
What the public burns to know is—when are the
venerable stalacites of whom the Marine Board is
composed to be set adrift V The present constitu-
tion of the Board is a disgrace to civilization.
When will the Treasurer put down tho sham of a
man acting as judge in what is substantially his
own case ? How many widows were made by the
Woniora?
William Baxter suicided recently, at Rag-
lan (Q.), by blowing his brains out with a double-
barrelled gun. He was not drunken, but eccentric.
His body, when found, was horribly decomposed,
and had been gnawed by.dingoes. He left behind
him a book in which was written: “I am going to
commit suicide; I feel that I can meet an offended
God better than my jeering fellowmen. After
paying my just debts, I want Con. Heggartyto
claim the rest, because I loved his sister. If I have
not done right I think God will know the why and
wherefore better than man. If I have made few
friends, I hope my enemies will forgive me.”
The article lor the publication of which
Queensland Figaro is being sued for £3000
damages for libel, is an elaboration of the
following four positions:—1. Mr. Cowiishaw directs
the Telegraph. 3. Mr. Cowiishaw is in such a
position, that he would profit by tho crisis which
the failure of a loan would bring: about. 3. The
adoption of the land-grant system would avert the
failure of a loan. 4. And, therefore, the Tele-
graph denounces the land-grant system. We
should judge from the tenor of the article that it
is inspired, and that the row is a political, quite as
much as a personal, one.
Here is the latest N S.W. land dodge;—A
squatter takes up a section. Twelve months elapse
and it is either not surveyed at all, or if surveyed,
not approved. The law is that “ no land shall be
considered to be measured until the plan thereof
has been approved by the Surveyor-General.”
But, in the event of non-approval within twelve
months, the conditional purchaser can claim a re-
fund of his deposit money. The wily squatter
easily works this game out, and by, in the mean-
time, carefully placing certain improvements on
the block, has the satisfaction of not only pocket-
ing his deposit, but retains the lease of the block
by virtue of improvements. This beats the old
dummy dodge in toto, for in that game, in any
case, the money deposit had to go.
In Adelaide, Mr. Ted. Hallock, secretary
to the Hospital, has prevailed on his Beard to de-
cline admissions for members of Benefit Societies.
Putting it otherwise—the fact that a man has been
provident deprives him of his citizenship, if Hal-
lock’s views are upheld. This is a serious matter
for the various Lodges, whose members feel
strongly concerning the matter. There is an old-
standing difference on this score between the Hos-
pital and Benefit Societies. *!It might be quite
possible to keep a sick man’s home together it the
sick man himself can remain an indoor patient till
recovery at the Hospital—the sick man’s family
meanwhile existing on the pittance secured by his
forethought from a benefit society. Hallock seems
to fancy it were better that such a family should
go straight to the Destitute Asylum. Of him are
the kingdom of beadles ! Then Dr. Way, just now,
asserts that illiborality in tho matter of medical
comforts has latterly increased the death-rate at
the Adelaide Hospital. Altogether, whenever the
doings of these Boards and Committees are brought
before the public, one is reminded of tho God-
forsaken chant—
“ Rattle his bones over the stones—
He’s only a pauper whom nobody owns.”
So soon forgotten. A recent Melbourne
journal says;—‘At Parkes, N.S.W., an elderly
man named Ohen fell into the tire on Saturday,
and received injuries from which he died.” That
“ elderly man named Ohen,” happened to be poor
old Baron Cohen, one of the most widely known
men in the Western district. Ho was one of the
first on Forbes,Lambing Flat, Grenfell, and Parkes
during their “flush” days, and kept leading hotels
in some of those places. His sad end recalls that
of another who was one of the first men on Forbes
to “strike it rich.” Out of one claim he scooped
£30,000, built a splendid hotel, took to drink, and
was cleaned out. Years after, when the diggings
was nigh deserted, the hotel was burnt down. He
was then a dead-beat on the streets. He was
eventually found drowned in what was once the
cellar of his big hotel. Sic transit, &c.
The Mort statue is, strictly speaking, a
cenotaph, forj the late Thomas Sutcliffe Mort was
buried, at his own request, in a spot chosen by
himself on the Bodalla home farm. It is just five
years and a month since the plain pine coffin—
without inscription or ornament beyond maiden-
hair and flowers, placed on it by loving hands—was
bedded; and the statue unveiled, and the reverent
interest shown at tho ceremony, wore fitting tri-
butes to the memory of the departed merchant
prince. Few deserve eulogy so well as he of whom
Mr. W. B. Dailey so eloquently spoke last Saturday
afternoon. No man has better earned honour m
this country than Thomas Sutcliffe Mort. A body
of prominent personages occupied the platform
close to the pedestal, and round about the trades
processions formed with banners and bands, the
Mort’s Dock men being conspicuous; and in the
presence of a great concourse of the public, his
Excellency the Governor unveiled the statue at 3
p.m., while ladies of the Mort family viewed the
scene from balconies nearby. Mr. Dailey’s oration
followed, wreaths of flowers were placed on the
statue, and after it had been formally handed over
to the Citv Corporation, cheers ended the pro-
ceedings. The statue itself is a bronze one by Mr.
P. F. Connelly, sculptor, of Florence, who. visiting
tills country in 1878, made a clay model at Green-
oaks, from a photograph, and was then commis-
sioned to execute the larger work, which Is very
line.
At 10 o’clock ou Friday night the special
train with Ministers, pressmen, officials, and others,
left Redfern, and at noon on Saturday it drew up
at Nyngan platform, on the great Western plain.
A deputation, an address, and a drive round the
township, which is over half a mile from the rail-
way station, were inflicted on the travellers; and
at 7 o’clock they sat down as guests to a banquet
given by the townsmen, under the management of
a committee. Mr. S. Lowe, of Wilga Downs, was
chairman, and Sir Patrick Jennings made an im-
portant and the only long speech, in which he
traced his connection with politics for years past,
his relations with the present Ministry, touched on
the land question, scathed Sir Henry, and finally
tickled tho Nynganites with a picture of the future
greatness they might revel in on the picturesque
banks of the “ never-flowing Bogan.” Other,
short speeches and toasts followed, and at ten the
same evening the special started back, arriving in
Sydney, 377 miles, about noon on Sunday. Nyngan
is composed of sawn timber and “ dead-brokes,’
physical force and galvanised iron. Its population
Is as “ mixed ” as any digging township, and com-
prises some of the ugliest men and rortiest women
in the Bogan electorate. It Is situated on the
Bogan River; at this point it is a river which men.
who can’t swim, cross by shutting their eyes and
walking right in—as there is no water In it, the in-
convenience is trifling. The most important sign of
civilization is a Chinese cabbage garden; but, as a
set-off, there are two medical men, whoso
signboards havo the merit of portability. By tho
way, Nyngan is a place of peculiar signboards,
varying in size from a post-card to a chain long.
The colour depends, at tho moment of production,
on the colour of the pot Caro may have open at the
time. At the banquet, on Saturday, although the
provision made was excellent, many would not bo
satisfied without a portion of a Minister’s ear,
which, doubtless, is a great delicacy. O’Connor
was fervid, and Cass sensible, Jennings sound and
popular; Sullivan, however, never speaks very
well after a full meal.
The natives are said to be very dangerous
in the far North just now. Thdy havo heard that
Peter Campbell is coming up.
A company calling itself the Court
Minstrels is now playing at Hegarty’s Hall. What
Court ? The Water Police Court ? But that is only
'our little joke.
We see that SruNEY Punch says we want
“a sample of Australian blackfellow.” We don’t
think it delicate conduct for the editor to try to
impose his company upon us in this fashion. When
we want him, we’ll send for him-
There is considerable excitement in the
London Stock Exchange just now. It has been
discovered that the Casino (N.S.W.) Town Council
are proposing to float a loan for the purchase of
a new wheelbarrow. It is suspected that this
contract has been secured by the Rothschild ring.
Joseph Brady, the assassin, lately exe-
cuted in Kilmainham Gaol, was one of a
family of 35. If nobody had said anything about
the matter, we reckon the old people would never
have missed him. Some of the Irish, it Is said, can’t
count up to more than a score. They never have
enough of anything, except grievances, to have
the chance. And these are old scores.
Tho lighting of M‘Murtrie and Kellerraan’a
new premises was done by Messrs. D. Koely and
Co., 71 Goulburn-stroet. Mr. Keely also superin-
tended the lighting arrangements at tho late Hay
ball and banquet, and, owing to his capability, not
the slightest accident occurred. Mr. Keely states
that he is prepared to light any concert or ball-
room free of charge, provided the entertainment
is for a charitable purpose.*
“ CHLOE.”
Chloe, you are a Chioe-rlous creature,
Yet they’d Chloe- so you up.
Lest, from your pure form and feature.
Saints foul sin should supl
Which, Chloe, to all most cntoe-sely shows.
How much sin saints in-chloe-BO In chloe- tliea.
But, Chloe, Nature fully knows you’re
Purest in her suit;
She aye scorns all sham in-cMoc-sure—
Corset, bustle, boot.
You have no faults, Chloe, to cWoe-the over,
With you a god might live in cWoe-ver!
UNITED!
THE ALBURY JUNCTION.


HASH.
There is a mist over the waters that is
slowly, slowly, lifting. And as it rises the sun
makes gold of the wavelets, and through the veil
light and vapoury Turneresque studies of islands
become visible, and spars of ships stand out in a
ghostly manner against the sky. Pleasant this,
and pretty, is it not? Sun-darts glinting through a
silver haze, and the rhythmic sound of distant
ship-bells should inspire the veriest dullard into
writing something picturesque. But, in conjunc-
tion with these beauties of nature there are a few
circumstances of a different nature which would
militate against the sparkle-journalistic with a
smaller mind than ours. With the butcher bellicose
and the baker pensive, with the landlady at the
back gate with her hand out, and the grocer at the
front one with his head in, not to mention the
fracture of the front-room window, and the deri-
sive demeanour of the Kandwick help, no man
could be exactly considered a free agent
There was a loud “thud” just here, and on our
enquiring what was up, we received the reply,
“ On, nothing. Only the baby fallen off the kitchen
dresser!” With many apologies for inflicting in
moments of melancholia our domestic troubles
upon a public which for intelligence and a delicate
appreciation of a humour that is infinite [fifty
lines of flattery of the grossest kind editorially
struck out.—Ed. B.] To return, then, from these
little domestic matters to the lovely prospect, with
the silver mist, agitated by the breezes of autumn
[Oh, hang the breezes, tell us something about
Hash.— Ed. B.]
■ •
The word hash, as Mr. Pickwick remarked
of politics, “ comprises by itself a study of no
inconsiderable magnitude.” It has been our lot to
feed—or we might rather say to browse—over the
surface of the globe to a very considerable extent.
Though we cannot, like “The Vagabond,” claim
the friendship of the great, we have nevertheless
devoured hash in the land of Grdvy, worried it in
the Plaza at Lima, and concealed it as prepared by
the almond-eyed at Canton. Our experience
of hotels and boarding-houses and restau-
rants has been vast and terrible. For that
reason we gave up boarding long ago. The
sighs of the landlords—in boarding-houses
particularly—militated against our digestion, while
the Mrs. Micawber-like distraction of the landlady’s
eye when we, on a cold morning, cut rather exten-
sively at the butter, conjured up a mist of gloom
around our soul. Our experience in the art of
boarding having been so extensive, our statement
that in all the world the hash of Sydney takes the
palm for meanness, and the quality of the sleep
dispensed by landlords here is of the sorriest, is
entitled to gloomy respect. Wo know all the
hotels: and we have slept at, we think, every
Sydney boarding-house where they didn’t keep
the chain up. Our hotels and boarding-houses
may be summed up as follows: —There is the first-
class one, which is a second-class one; the second-
class one, which is a fourth-class one; and the
third-class one, which is a dungeon.
* * *
We stayed not long ago at an ordinary Syd-
ney boarding-house, for the purpose of writing this
sketch. It was a grim house, near Hunter-street,
whose knocker hadbeen stolen bymodern mohawks
and which had a bell, the wire of which pulled so
far out that, if you incautiously gave a hard tug,
it was ten to one you would fracture your jaw.
The sitting-room was infested with the passing
spirit of desolation. No two chairs were alike, and
there was an aperture the exact size of a man’s
head in the ornamental part of the piano. The
landlord of this caravanserai did not move actively
in the government of the establishment. He worked
outside at something, and used to wake all the
boarders regularly every morning, demand-
ing his boots and savagely clinking his coffee-
cup. There were four boarders in every room,
but there was no regularity in the arrangements.
People got up when they liked; and if there was
any breakfast (which wasn’t the rule) they got it;
and if there was not,they went down one by one into
the kitchen, and supposing the cook would let them,
toasted sausages. If she wouldn’t, they clutched
hold of big lumps of cheese, and sent one of their
number out for beer. The landlady of this place
was of a jovial and mercurial temperament. No-
body seemed to have any luggage, and the ante-ing
up on part of the lodgers was of a spasmodic nature.
So, wnen the gastronomical horizon was more
than usually cloudy, she would trip up and
say “ Well, boys, there’s nothing in the
house; so if you can’t show any money, you’ll
get no dinner.” We then used to gravely make a
collection : a proceeding which generally resulted
in the appearance, about four o clock or so, of a
shoulder of mutton with baked potatoes. This
boarding-house had other peculiarities. The cloth,
for instance, was on sixteen bouts out of the
twenty-four ; and no ingenuity of mortal, man
could, without the aid of steel bars and a sepul-
chre-stone, have closed the back door. There was
no hash, strictly speaking, in that mansion, for the
simple reason that it was too much trouble to
make it; and when “ made-dishes” were attempted,
chaos was not unfrequently the result, the lan-
guage of the landlord, on the appearance of the
usual failure, being of an unholy and unreport-
able nature. We stayed here until some unwary
foreigners in the musical line were entrapped into
coming. We left then. As none of the new ar-
rivals could speak a word of English, and the land-
lady had never been nearer Italy than Dubbo,
complications began to result. The foreigners
evinced at once a lixed and decided dislike to the
cookery; but on endeavouring to explain to the
hostess what they wanted for dinner, she would
offer them, in a distracted way, articles varying
from an onion to a boot-jack. In the end, when
they wanted anything special, they cooked it them-
selves, and compounded weird dishes, composed
chiefly of onions, olives, and oil—the latter pre-
dominating—and calling for claret and water,
bivouacked on the floor of their bedroom. When
we wore leaving, the landlady asked us to recom-
mend the house about. And we will, too, when we
come across a man we hate enough.
♦ * *
The next place we struck was the funniest
house we have ever lived in. It was a small hotel,
with a tin-roof, on (say)—Goat Island, and on our
requesting accommodation, our query was met by
the landlord with a counter-question asking if we
were in a position to “plank down ” twenty-five
shillings in advance. Having “planked down”
that amount upon the crazy little bar, the landlord
called his wife, who was out at the back, to show
us a room. She, however, declined, on the score
of peeling potatoes, to come, whereupon he, with
many oaths, went in search of her, and a scuffle
ensued, which ended in the disappearance of the
woman under the kitchen-table and the rolling of
nearly all the potatoes into the bar. We found our
room after a bit, and it was the drollest of attics,
shelving down on each side and bulging out where
the window was. The company here was, if not
wealthy, at least select. It comprised a lawyer and
his wife, a clergyman who seemed to have gone
wrong, and a gentleman who did news-grubbing
for the papers by the par. or “ stick.” And though
a financial cloud was evidently over them all, they
were excellent company. There was never a dull
minute at that hotel. The landlord, a stout fellow
with a bull-neck and extensive whiskers, used to
get drunk, on an average, three times daily, and
when “under the Influence,” was wont to order
“the boiling of us” (as he phrased it) out of the
house. He never had quite a clear idea as to who’d
paid him and who had not, and as a way out of the
difficulty, swore, in his cups, that none of us had,
and at all untimely hours of the day and night
shrieked to us to “ plank down or clear.”
• • »
The clergyman was a splendid fellow, brim-
ming over with anecdote, and he never was known
to take a cup of tea; but took rum-and-milk with
his breakfast, and beer with the rest of his meals. He
likewise smoked continually, and had an unaffected
way of putting his pipe down by the side of his
plate at dinner. The lawyer, though he had a
gloomy temperament, and an attire of sur-
passing seediness, was an agreeable companion, and
despite the fact that his eye was frequently
glazed, and at unexpected times he betrayed
himself the owner of an explosive hiccup,
formed a very estimable member of our cdte-
rie. His wife was a lady of genteel appear-
ance; with a taste for music, which aroused jealous
feelings in the heart of the landlady, and not un-
frequently led to recriminations of a tropical
character. But they soon made it up, and, after
every quarrel, used to take an amicable glass of
gln-and-pepperminttogether; a festive proceeding
to which the landlord had, as it seemed, a deep-
rooted objection. Tho journalist was always up
with the lark to go the round of the police stations,
and used to come homo tired to breakfast, and
write paragraphs—which hardly ever appeared—
on slips like curl papers. He was the first to leave
us, eloping with a big servant-girl from next door,
and covering, by this flagrant departure from
morality, our hotel with ignominy. The food at
this place was very fair when everyone was
sober, but the morning after the battle our
“tucker” used to be rather flung at us than other-
wise, and a deep dish of long thin sausages floating
in a bath ot tepid water (gravy!) told in itself a
sorry tale. But we didn’t mind all this; but, what
we did rather object to, was a habit the landlord
contracted of, when tired, lying on our bed. One
day he took a bottle of schnapps up with him, and
went to sleep, leaving the cork out. The next day,
when we met Belinda to take her to the monkey-
circus, she said we seemed saturated with Udolpho
Wolfe. On that we packed up and hurriedly left.
* ♦ ♦
Resolving to try a rather higher-toned
establishment, we went Darlinghurst way, and,
after some prospecting, struck hash at the rate of
30s., in lawful currency, weekly. Here we were in
great glory. There were table-napkins, two ser-
vants, and a hat-rack. The house, here, was an old
one and an inconvenient one; but it was preten-
tious, not to say assertive. There was a good deal
of gold streaking on the door, and an amount of
red window-blind that made you blush to look
at it. A glamour of gentility was over this
establishment; but, regarded from a gastronomical
point ot view, we considered it delusive. There
must have been fourteen boarders in all, and all
ate at one long table. When laid, this table, from
a distance, looked imposing; but a nearer inspec-
tion revealed the fact that the forks were limp
Germans, and that the cruets were drunk. The
board was of a “square” description, and the food
was cooked by a funny little man attached to the
establishment. We can’t say he had much of the
cordon bleu about him, though. Everything that
could be fried was fried; and the balance was
baked. The potatoes, as he served them up, were
less potatoes than deadly weapons. Any of them
would have made a good polo ball, and a charge
fired out of the one o clock #un would have gone
clean through the clock of the Town Hall tower.
We got beef and mutton for dinner every day,
except Sunday, when we were treated to veal and
pork. For tea we had cold meat, and hash of an
uncompromising nature. No attempted disguise,
mind you. No try at a ragout, or leap at a haricot.
Hash, dear readers, in its grimest, most grisly,
and ghastliest form. The place was bossed by a
lady—affecting thing!—a widow. She was of the
straight-up-and-down order of architecture, and
was as severe on us all as a Corporal of Marines.
She was, in sooth, rather like a Corporal of Marines.
We were frightened to death of her, and were
slavish in our attempts at conciliation. Life there
was droll, too. The boarders were chiefly drapers’
shopmen, and small clerks; but there were several
ladies, too. These were always either on kissing
terms with the hostess, or else at daggers drawn.
Twenty timesa week the house was divided against
itself, and uproar was the result. Everybody took
one side or another, and cutting were the remarks
exchanged at meal times. We conceived the happy
idea of agreeing with both parties—with the result
that after we had been there three days not a soul
would speak to us! We never heard so much cry-
ing as in that place. All day there would be ex-
plosions of grief and anger in every room. This
is what you would hear:—“What! talk like that
about me—oh, you wicked thing!” “I didn’t.”
You did, you story. I’ll pack up my things this
Instant. You d better. I wouldn’t have you in
ph® house. ‘Boohoo-ooo! I’ll tell my husband.”
“Tell him.” “I will.” “Ah!” “ Yes>” Half an
hour afterwards one will have traded to the other
a pair of stockings for a hair-pad, and then they’ll
adjourn, with many kisses, to eat bread and jam in
the pantry. A very little while of that did us. We
shall soon forget all about the people; but we
shall never forget their sausages.
♦ * *
On leaving we resolved to try something
suburban. We therefore contracted with a lady
tor sustenance in a marine neighbourhood, and
to reside in a terrace of smart appearance.
This lady (also a widow!) only took a limited
number of stew-concealers, and prided herseif on
her cooking, and on the position which had been
held by her deceased husband. She’d say, “ What
would you like for dinner—' beef-olives ?’ ” “ Cer-
j l n . we ,’d .reply. “Well, I never!” she’d re-
join; that s just what Mr. M'Clancy was so fond
of. My! If we wanted scented soap, Mr. M'Clancy
usef l anything else; or shaving-water, Mr.
M'Clancy was most partic’ler about his razhers.
But we could have forgiven this if the establish-
ment had been conducted on comparatively sane
principles. The whole thing, however, was one
ludicrous scramble. No servant being kept, she
had to do all the work herself; so the consequence
was the breakfast used to get mixed up with the
washing, the black-lead with the butter, and the
scrubbing-brush used to continually get into the
meat-dish. She was a good old soul this, but her
cooking was a sad and mournful exhibition. Her
coffee, alone, would have made her a reputation
for necromancy in the dark ages; and she had a
way of cooking steak which was a drear
and awful study. Her fried potatoes came
out in cold grease-congealed blocks ; and
when she announced a nice Irish stew, we took a
holiday. The other men were in junior positions
in Government offices, and they could swallow any-
thing—even the stories about Mr. M'Clancy. We
used, on rare occasions here, to have a fowl or a
turkey. These were red-letter days. On these
occasions we all made a point of assembling in the
yard to chuckle. We wearied of this place very
quickly. The landlady was a person of such limited
powers of suggestion. When, having been unable
to tackle the breakfast, we would, towards 11, say,
suggest a collation, she could never think of any-
thing but cheese—with bread, as an afterthought;
and an allusion to the late Mr. M'Clancy that never
failed to send us out groaning. We have no idea
where the lady got her cheese, but we should like
to know. We should like to contemplate for one
brief moment the Tnurderous countenance of the
miscreant who sold it, prior to slaying him with
something blunt. It had one point, that cheese—
it was interesting in its pallor; (and, being of a
gentle disposition, it was “soft and yielding.” Ugh!
we think upon it now withasigh and with a shudder.
You could bend it any way without breaking ;
model with it; make marbles with it; quarrel with
it;—but you couldn’t eat it. So, on the evening of
the ninth day, we girded up our luggage and fled.
•
Somewhat damped by our last experience,
and haunted by the spectre of M'Clancy, we cast
about for a new line in the hash hemisphere, and
decided on taking apartments out Redfern way,
with “ partial board.” On this intent we inter-
viewed the proprietress of a house near Billiugs-
street, and it ended in our securing a large apart-
ment, which the bill, with a pleasant humour,
called furnished. There was a la"ge ominous-
looking bed in it, and the floor was covered with
oil-cloth. It was very cold then; but there was a
grate, so we thought that didn’t matter. So on
taking possession we entrusted the landlady with
certain silver moneys, which she was to expend for
us in coal and wood. This idea was so far brilliant
that in the course of time she appe red with a
brandy-case full of coal, saying that it could be
replenished from the heap in the yard. But it
never was. Our arrival there seemed ‘ > imbue the
whole household with a passion for burning coal
instead of wood, with a result to our supply that
was heart-breaking. In the next room to us was a
‘ married couple,” a very fine-looking woman mid
a dull and troubled-looking man. Upstairs was a
young man who was in the French polishing;”
and the landlord was a hearse-driver. In- this
pleasant society we thought to have revelled for
many a long day, but it w as not to be. The land-
lord had conceived in his early youth a passion for
red herrings, and had them for breakfast matutl-
nally. After two days “ partial board” on red
herrings, we mildly suggested something else.
But he couldn’t see it. So, independent of paying
our partial board, we used to go over to the
butcher’s every morning and mournfully bargain
for sausages. Just as we Were getting com-
fortably fixed, and were, as the landlord
played on the door-step, nightly beginning to
acquire a taste for the concertina, lo and
behold two strange gentlemen arrived one even-
lnJT arl d requested some private conversation
with the gentleman and his handsome wife. Then,
in a lew moments, they all drive off, md we hear
a little later that the gloomy husband has been
' lurabered ” lor embezzlement. But this was not
all;. It seems that the “young chap”in the French
polishing line was rather a giddy youth. Anyhow,
“towards the third hour,” one night, we became
conscious of rocks being landed on our verandah.
Then a voice—a female voice of an exasperated
calibre—said: “Comedown, now; you ain’t asleep,”
and hang came another stone. The young man, we
consider, must have gone down, for the road metal
bombardment ceased. But every second or third
night it came again. After a few days more of this,
during which a stone came through the window ami
smashed the landlord’s ewer, we departed.
* * *
We wandered forlornly about on leaving
this elysium for a day or so, sleeping in hotels and
at the Model Lodging House (the internal economy
of which we have described in a modest sketch),
until, at last, we resolved to sample the hash that
Members sample; to curl up where squatters curl,
and to bask generally in the sunshine of fashion.
Fired with this luminous idea, we subsidised a cab-
man to drive us to Yabber-strcet, and, pulling
up at the first house with “board and residence”
displayed thereon, we hoisted out our shoe-trunk
and rang the bell. After waiting for about ten
minutes, we performed, not without certain mis-
givings, another concerto on the communicator,
accompanied, this time, with a knocker obli-gato.
The effect of this performance was to bring to the
door a lady of about 45 with her face tied up in
what is known as a “ glass-cloth.” we have
accommodation ? Well, yes, she supposed we
could, but the fact was that she intended shortly
retiring from the business, and . However, if
we didn’t mind putting up with a few trifling in-
conveniences ? Not at all. . . .
* * *
Such a house! An enormous mansion, in
which the lack of furniture seemed to be counter-
balanced by a plethora of draughts. In the hall a
rush of wind came up from the kitchen that nearly
whistled your ear off; and our bed-room (one of
the windows of which was permanently closed
with a wedge and the other fastened with
a rug strap) was a small Nova Zembla.
The first night we slept there we crept
so far under the clothes for warmth, that,
in the morning, we discovered ourselves with our
head on the window-sill and our feet on the pillow.
The price here, we think, was 35s. a week ; but
what we are sure of is that it was “35s. and
upwards.” We didn’t travel on the upwards. It
was understood here that you didn’t pay so much
for the quality of your hash as for the situation.
On our mildly remonstrating with the landlady,
after a banquet of pink pork and quivering veal,
and pointing out the high rates she charged, the
reply was: “ The cook is not very guod, 1 own,
sir, but look at the position.” After that we were
dumb.
•
We had not been forty-eight hours in that
establishment, before we discovered that every-
body there patronised the place on account of its
situation, and that nearly everybody laid in a
Erivate stock of provisions. Anchovy-paste and
iscuits were to be seen on almost every chest of
drawers ; and one afternoon we detected a young
Englishman in the act of boiling eggs in a small
kettle over a spirit-lamp. The boarders here were
not, as might be easily supposed, of a courteous
disposition ; for, notwithstanding that the board-
ing-house was presided over by a widow, they
vented their humours at the table with a
callous disregard of their fair hostess’ feel-
ings which was painful to a person of a sen-
sitive disposition. There was an American
gentleman residing in this house, who was
in the lightning-rod or patent brick or door-catch
line—we forget which—whose proceedings at meals
used to painfully disconcert us. When comp) tints
grew loud at the appearance of the inevitable
joints reposing in dams of ominous liquor, ci o
lady of the house used to lay commands upon her
chef to prepare some other kind of dish. The re-
sult of this was either a beef-steak pudding in a
state of collapse, or a number of lumps of mutton
floating in a green bath, which the cook considered
to be curry. The rice appertaining to this alluring
phit used to be served in a potato-dish, and pre-
sented the appearance of a solid block of sper-
macetti. The appearance of these bizarre viands
exercised the American considerably; and on their
being set down he invariably used to gasp, “ What
in thunder’s this?” whereupon the landlady would
look placidly round the table and say; “Well,
ladies and gentlemen, I am sure I deal at the very
best butcher’s.” However, we didn’t do so badly
here, for there was a roomy safe in the dining-
room which had always cheese and jam and bread
in it; so you could, when hungry, go down and fill
up with those delicacies. Everybody, used to
be always “filling up” with them,' and so
the big dining-room, which it seemed nobody’s
business to sweep, was always plentifully
adorned with the “ heels ” of Dutch cheeses,
and there was always enough strawberry-
jam on the door-plate to make a sponge-cake sand-
wich. The circle, here, was more refined than
amusing. Gentility appeared to be the aim of
everybody. Most of the ladies would talk about
“ dear Lady Loftus,” and no man went out after
dinner that wasn’t going to his club. On our sub-


The Furniture Column.
DO you remember what we said last week?
Tnat parties about Furnishing: should not
fail to take advantage of the present opportunity!
That room must be made for shipments of goods
already in the harbour and to arrive! That reduc-
tions had been made in prices, especially those or
Austrian Furniture! and that the lowest net cash
price was placed upon everything! Well, in addi-
tion to this, we have to repeat that the New Furni-
ture Coverings have arrived. Blue, Sage, Olive,
Marone, and Crimson Silks; good stout materials,
everlasting wear.
This direct importation enables us to make up
complete suites of nine articles to sell for £1810s.
About the best value we have ever been able to
offer.
The patterns are on view, and orders can be
booked at once.
Our stock of Sample Suites numbers between 30
and 40, comprising new shapes in frames, and
choice patterns in materials. Prices range from
£10 10s to £42. The last-named suite, viz.: that
marked at £42, is about as beautiful and unique a
thing as could be placed in any drawing-room.
The frames are American, massively carved, and
of improved style; the covering is of rich satin
brocaae.
Our sample Morocco Leather Dining-room Suites,
are also worthy of attention.
AUSTRIAN SUITES of 9 articles from £4 15s 6d.
BEDSTEADS.
Bedsteads and Bedding about 60 samples, every
price, every size, and every colour.
Room must be made for new arrivals, and attrac-
tive goods at attractive prices are displayed
throughout the length and breadth of our Show-
rooms.
For the sura of .£50 prompt net cash,
You can Furnish a House as follows
PARLOUR.
Upholstered Spring-seated Suite, consist-
ing of couch, six chairs, and easy chair
Cheifonier
Oval pedestal table
Gilt frame pier glass .... ... ••• •••
Cornice pole, with rings, pins, and brackets
Lamp 10s 6d; Clock 15s
Pair vases
Fender and irons
Velvet pile hearthrug
Fancy matting, 16 yards
Door slip
BEDROOM No. 1.
Handsome four-post, 4ft 6in., flowered
bedstead
Pair palliasses
Wool flock mattress ...
Bolster ...
Two feather pillows
Large chest of drawers...
T.R. Washstand and set
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Table toilets ... ....
Rocking or folding chair
C. S. chair
Matting for room
BEDROOM, No. 2.
Bedstead, half tester ...
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Chair
Matting
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow ...
Washstand and set ...
Table „•••
Glass Is 6d, Chair 2s 6d ...
Matting
KITCHEN.
Table with drawer
Pine safe
Two chairs
Six soup plates
Six meat plates
Six pudding plates
Six cheese plates...
Meat dishes, Is 9d, 2s 3d, 3s ...
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Six china cups and saucers ...
Six china plates
China sugar basin
China butter dish
China milk jug
China slop basin
Six china egg cups
Two bread and butter plates
Pair salt cellar’s ...
Set jugs
Pair decanters
Six cut tumblers
Six cut wines
Six Mosley’s dinner knives ...
Six nickel dinner forks
Six Mosley’s dessert knives ...
Six nickel dessert forks
Two table spoons
Six dessert spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle 5s 6d; Boiler 10s6d ...
Saucepans, Is 9d, 3s, 4s
Frying pan
Grid-iron
Tea pot 2s; Tea caddy Is
Coffee pot Is 6d; Colander Is 6d
Bread-grater
Wash-basin
Dipper
Tubs, 5s and 6s 6d ..
Bucket
Wash-board
Two candlesticks...
Baking dishes 8d, lOd
Knife dox
Knife board
Pepper caster
Set skewers
Nutmeg grater ...
Patent box iron ...
Pair bellows
Hair broom
Hand broom
Dust pan
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish
Set shoe brushes ...
£50 0 0
Next week the £10 List will appear.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
scquently discovering these gentry standing out-
side the Theatre Royal, and pretending to be Inside,
or quaffing threepenny drinks in humble public-
houses, the confusion used to be mutual. Things
went along calmly enough here, until, in an evil
hour, the landlady, seduced by their gold, took in
■i party of newly-arrived theatricals. These were
not the lantern-jawed, hollow-eyed, and impecuni-
ous section of the “perfesh,” but a crowd who
presented an appearance of prosperity, and whose
plump looks spoke ominously as to the manner in
which they had crushed the landloi-ds at other
houses by their startling table d' htte evolutions.
Amongst this company was a young lady of a
mercurial temperament; and it was not long
before she contrived to burst up the establishment,
ghe had not been there forty-eight hours before
she was heard speaking of one of the “ dear Lady
Loftus” dowagers as “the old Duchess,” and
furthermore, she, on the evening of the
third day, addressed a swell Government clerk
as “ Riblets,” and requested him to “ slide along the
oleomargarine.” Having caught the genteel fever,
we essayed not to notice this forward young person;
hut it was of no use. She noticed us so persistently
that we were continually involved in the deepest
embarrassment. When dissatisfied with the dinner,
not content with audibly expressing her disgust at
the menu, she was wont to elevate pieces of meat
on a fork and call our attention to their toughness
—a proceeding which tended to fasten on us, as it
were, the garb of the intransigeapts and cut us off
from the ranks of gentility for ever. After the
theatre, this young lady would return, and after
“supping” heavily on cheese, beer, bloater-paste,
jam, and edibles in the dining-room, would leave
memos, of a jocose nature on the table. The
swellest boarder of the lot was an independent
gentleman of “ancient lineage” and of a “dys-
peptic” temperament. He used to go out after
lunch, and return to dinner in that condition known
in aristocratic circles as “well pegged up.” It was
the custom at the house to always attribute this to
some other cause; but the young actress, refusing
to pander to this innocent deception, boldly accused
the gentleman, on his returning on one occasion in
a cloudy condition, of being “paralyzed.” Next
day there was a stampede of boarders, in which we
joined; and the last words we heard from our
hostess, as the cabman walked out with it under
his arm, were: “I assure you, sir, I always goto
the very best butcher.”
* * *
Our next venture was at Double
Bay, in a house occupied by a married
couple, their daughter, and by a youn ->•
man who was engaged to her. Arriving thei
late at night, we went to bed in a room nearly
as big as a hospital ward, and found much enter-
tainment in tracing out mottoes and pictures from
the dam-stains on the walls. There was no handle
to the ewer here, and our allowance of yellow soap
reposed in the cover, likewise mutilated, of a
butter-dish. “If you want anything, sir. please
ring,” had said the landlady, on our retiring to
rest. We thanked her kindly, and in the morning,
desiring a towel, and our boots cleaned, and some
water, and a few other trifles, we did ring. No one
appearing, after half an hour we rang again.
Same result. Much mystified by this, we clutched
a copy of “Foxe’s Book of Martyrs,” and
went to bed again. At ten o’clock, hearing voices,
we threw up the window. It was the landlady.
“Hi, butcher!” she cried to a passing equestrian:
“ you have forgotten to call.” “ No, I ain’t,” was
the reply; “just you pay us what you owe us;
then I’ll call fast enough.” And he rode away.
Two or three minutes afterwards, a dirty,
decrepid, old woman, whose hair you could
not see for dirt, and whose teeth you
couldn’t see for tobacco, knocked at the door and
said, “Sir, master says could you lend him two
shillings, till he gets change for a cheque.” Two
shillings lent, and a request made for towels, water,
etc. After half an hour the old dame appeared
with a towel, but no water; and at eleven returned
with some cloudy liquid in a beer-jug, and some-
body else’s boots. We had breakfast that day at a
quarter to twelve, and the meal consisted of one
course—Sardines d VhuUe. Hardly had we digested
this luscious feed, than a cart drove up to the
door, and the bell was rung violently. On this
everybody fled, and, as the ringing continued, we
went out and opened the door ourselves. “ Is she
in ?” he said. “Who?” we enquired. “The party,”
said he. “Walk in,” we feebly murmured. And
he walked in to the front room and laid violent
hands on the sewing-machine. “ Nine instalments
overjew. These is my orders,” he remarked, and
carried it out bodily. This proceeding cast a
temporary gloom over the establishment, but the
landlord (who though an invalid was of buoyant
spirits) recovered shortly after one o’clock suffi-
ciently to borrow enough money from us to
enable him to send out for “a quart.” That day
we dined at a quarter past three, on cold corned
beef from the cook-shop, peculiar pickles, and
biscuits—the baker having omitted also to call.
That night, when the stars were shedding their
lambent twinkles o’er the city, and the gaslamps
were gleaming in one luminous perspective,
and the moon was doing several things, we let
down our luggage with a clothes-liue from the
Hrst-floor, and vanished into space.
After.this, we went to reside with a private
family with musical tastes, who took no other
lodgers, at Newtown. There were an old man, a son,
two gaunt daughters, and a mother here. We
arrived at tea-time and were regaled with canned
lobster—always a cheerful and convivial kind of
viand! After tea, the ladles were kind enough to
entertain us with some duets upon the time-pay-
ment Bord, during which time the brother was so
good as to accompany them on the cornet; while
the old lady worked a rattling sewing-machine,
and the “old min” snored. A week ot this, and
then a triend called on a day when they happened
to be all out, and finding us in a condition of mental
feebleness and of bodily prostration, in a tit of in-
dignation throw the cornet over into the next yard
and hamstrung the piano. Then creeping softly
out by the back gate, we looked neither to the
i ight nor to the left, but tied.
After this experience (and much more) we
gave up boarding. We then tried the restaurants
with almost equally dismal results. But these and
the hotels for (who knows?), perhaps, another
time. Then, if we write it. we can tell you of the
waiters who say “ Coming,” and don’t come; of the
waitresses who take your order and give the feed
to somebody else; of the men who go to eat and
stay to spoon; of all the bizarre drolleries sur-
rounding the Sydney supply of hash. But this will
be in our own time. We are going to write some-
thing about “crumpled rose-leaves” now, and
keen our eye on the baby while they hang out the
washing.
-Dr. 8TANICH, Aurist (by appointment) to
His Excellency the Governor of New South Wales,
may be consulted on the Eye, Ear, and Throat
Diseases, at 50 WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
There is a gorgeous tale running in the
Echo. The author is Mr. Francis Myers, and the
tale is “Friede.” Well, we’ve read a good lot of
it, but we’ll be boiled if we know who *• Friede ”
is. “ Friede,” however, is a grilling—we mean a
thrilling—romance. It may be read with equal
pleasure on a Thursday and on a Frieda. We give
Myers this ad. because we ad-Myers.
MARRIAGE IN HEAVEN.
Cries Sylvia to a reverend dean;
“ What reason can be given,
Since marriage is a holy thing,
That there is none in heaven?”
“There are no women,” he replied.
She quick returns the jest:
“ Women are there but I'm afraid
They cannot find a priest.”
They were talking in the stage-box. The
tenor strode up and said: “Ladies and gentlemen,
I fear my performance interrupts your conversa-
tion. As soon as I can proceed without distressing
you I shall resume my part.” Again. A visitor to
the opera was annoyed by a man in front of him
who nummed all the airs right through. Finding
that he did not desist, the irritated one began to
hiss violently. The obnoxious person turned
suddenly round and said, with a glare of astonish-
ment, “ Sir, do you know whom you are hissing ?
That is the best tenor in France.” “ Perhaps so,
but he sings so loudly that I can’t hear you.” Once
more. In a caf«5. Man puffs cigar-clouds across a
little table at which a stranger is eating. Stranger
gets up, bows politely, and says: “ Excuse me, sir,
will It annoy you very much if I eat while you are
smoking ? ”
They have invented a new meaning for
“ getting off a tramcar ” at Adelaide. Brownjones
was lately missing for some days. Brownjones is
well-known and highly respected. He can pay for
a drink without borrowing. Consequently, there
were many anxious enquiries when his bustling
figure and tenor voice no longer filled the eye and
ear. Of course, primarily peonle supposed that
Brownjones was “down below” at the poetic
Howell’s hotel, or had gone with somebody's wife
to San Francisco. But, as F. Harvie-Linklater
reported nothing fresh at the gaol, and Thb
Bulletin made no mention whatever of an extra-
distinguished visitor to N.S.W., these suppositions
became untenable after the first two or three days.
Had he become a quiet Benedict, or was he getting
married informally several times over, and lying
perdu till the next call was made ? Had he fallen
down a shaft, or bought another comic paper and
wasted away to insensibility in dreadful attempts
to secure an entirely original joke? At last
Brownjones’ friends were in a position to
give the required information. He had been
“getting off a tramcar” while the tramcar was in
motion, and the injuries sustained were sufficient
to detain Brownjones in bed. That was all.
This is how it was done. They are agitating for a
new Corporation, to be called “ St. Peter’s,” in
Brownjones’ district; while some ratepayers want
another title. Among these latter folks is a cer-
tain Tom So-and-so—a moneyed, low-lived cad of
the first water. Tom is a bull-necked, broadly-
built. strong fellow, who does nothing but take
holidays, and pay an occasional fine in the police-
court. Brownjones is physically weak, having
cherished an unwholesome liver for many years.
Tom and Brownjones took opposite sides on the
Corporation question. They attended a committee-
meeting at the “ Magpie and Stump.” In the heat
of argument. Brownjones happened to remark to
Tom, “You’re a liar;” his liver having begot an
infirmity of temper, but no counterbalancing mus-
cularity. Tom sagely responded, “You’re an (adjec-
tive) liar,” which, allowing for our periphrasis,
according to Touchstone, is “the countercheck
quarrelsome.” Quoth Brownjones, “Come out
into the back-yard, you—et cetera.” Replied Tom,
most readily, “ All right, I’ll go out into the back-
yard withyou, you —” (any colonial can supply this
blank). They went into the back-yard, and fought
nine rounds m the manly stand-up fashion which
so delighted our grandfathers in the days of Tom
Cribb. Each round Tom did just what he liked with
Brownjones, completely altering that person’s
profile, and bashing him about so thoroughly, that
the enforced seclusion of a bedcamber was all
that remained for our volatile friend. This is pre-
cisely how Brownjones was hurt in “getting off a
tramcar.”
Wisdom’s mood was interruptive, and
Fletcher’s irritable. One was orating and the
other interjecting; one scowled and the t’other
laughed. “ If the hon. member Interrupts me any
more, by , I’ll wring his nose for him.” Tableau
—Burns protecting Wisdom from the Imaginary
blows of Fletcher, who has a list like a shoulder of
mutton.
Says Mother Shipton
“ When my Lord falls in my Lady’s lap,
England beware of some mishap ” —
moaning that when Easter falls near to Lady Day
(March 25), England is threatened with some dire
calamity. It is passing strange that this prophecy
has often been fulfilled. For instance, Easter fell
exactly on the 25th this year—and John Brown
died I
Thus the Anti-Lancet : “ Energetic action
cannot be kept up in the brain and stomach at the
same time. During a season of profound thought,
nervous power is withdrawn from the stomach
and concentrated in the brain. Hence the weak
disposition and sallow complexion of many of our
cleverest literary men.” Must be something wrong
here. Some literary men in Sydney wear faces red
enough to bake mutton-pies, and own digestions
capable of assimilating the fried steak of a Bligh-
street boarding house.
A young man should never soil his hands
with work, beyond, at the most, a few ink-stains.
They’re not so very derogatory; but manual labour
is'disgraceful. Always aim to be genteel. If you
work, you cannot be a masher, and enjoy all the
credit and glory attached to that noble calling.
But if you grow up a nice, neat, foreheadless dood,
you can live in the upper circles, perhaps visit
Government House, and have a chance of being
appointed a gallant majaw, without being called
on to “ pass examination at the institute.” But
this is just preliminary. What we want to say is,
that, railing influence to get you a Government
appointment, if you want a really genteel sinecure,
you should be book-keeper on a station. For in-
stance, not long ago, a young man answered a
E remising advertisement for such a person, and
ere is the answer he got from a Western squatter:
—“Regarding the situation of book-keeper you
apply for, if you are able, willing, and prepared to
make yourself otherwise useful-given to neither
beer or grog of any kind—nor yet tobacco (I), as
well as quite confidential in all matters entrusted
to your care or keeping, I will be glad to hear more
from you. Wages will begin on arrival here at £30
a year. P.S. —You will require to be able to ride as
well as read and write, so that you may give
lessons to my children, assist in garden, stable,
mailman, &c.”—The young man didn’t hurry up
by the first train; first because he didn’t know
whether he could trust himself with so much
money, and next, because there was still a linger-
ing uncertainty as to who would milk the cows
and clean the family boots.
A short time ago, the Rev. Osrie Copland,
a Congregational minister in Adelaide, delivered a
lecture in a suburban glory shop, on the totalisa-
tor. The Act legalising the use of this instrument
was, as most people know, passed some time since
by the S.A. Legislature, and annually, for the past
three years, just prior to the Cup day, Osrie has—
as the mouth-piece of the ultra-holy—poured forth
a torrent of abuse in the shape of a sermon against
the totalisator and all its connections and sup-
porters. H.E. the new Governor, whose broad-
mindedness has made him popular, was not
exempted from the v ials of wrath poured forth by
this apostle of that drivelling ideal of religious
mountebankism, Joe Cook. The Dissenting pro-
prietors of the local dailies—three of them are
Cougregationalists and two Wesleyans—of course
consider Osric’s galimatias a matter of national
importance, so the lecture has accordingly been
rehashed annually for the delectation of the
readers of the South Australian Rum and Shroud.
What effect these deliverances may have had on
the average reader it would be difficult to say, but
the effect it appears to have had on one of Mr.
Copland’s own “brethren,” a Reverend Mr-
Blank—we won’t give the poor devil’s name
—was something like half a pint of Queens-
land rum on a new chum. Mr. Blank, who,
according to the local Congregational author-
ities, is a capital scholar, was recently licensed to
deal out salvation at per mile. Unwilling, it
would appear, to accept statements from even
such a widely-known celebrity without having
them practically verified, the Rev. Mr. Blank took
an opportunity of testing their accuracy for him-
self, and shortly afterwards visited the racecourse.
Whether it was through investing in his spiritual
father s bite noir, or that the genial society of Joe
Thompson had a depressing effect on the rev.
gentleman’s mind, we know not; but, anyhow, he
had to resort to the flowing bowl to “keep his
courage to the sticking point.” One would have
thought that the contents of the traditional flagon
would have been merciful to one so carefully
nurtured in the paths of virtue, but it was noticed
soon that he was under the impression that the
racecourse had been tranformed into a kaleido-
scope, and that he was beginning to express him-
self in language which it is doubtful that he had
ever seen in Butler’s “Analogy.” However, the
worst was yet to come. The combined effects of
Totalisator sermons, Bass and Rhoderick Dhu,
were calamitous, and the result was that next
morning the goody-goody Christian young man
figured in the Police Court on a charge of offend-
ing against decency in a most disgraceful manner;
and although a prominent Congregationalist with
distinguishing good taste occupied a seat on the
Bench beside the Police Magistrate, the rev. gentle-
man was committed for trial. The Advertiser
gave some prominence to the case, but the
Register, which boasts of the publicity It gives
to everything in the shape of crime, and which
howled so loudly because it was excluded from
that remarkably savoury divorce trial, Morier v.
Morier, carefully suppressed the evidence. This,
of course, is exceedingly to be wondered at. Had
any worldly-minded poor devil become similarly
entrapped, sermons would have been preached
every Sunday for the next six months on the cry-
ing immorality of the age, by Copland and his
coadjutors. Osrie, dear boy, you have a great
deal to answer for.
The Mirror.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see myself, and fain would gaze
While strength could yield me sight:
’Tis joy which doth my senses daze
To shine in such a light.
With stealthy glances now and then
I view my form made fair,
Than ever man may'seem again
More blithe and debonair.
At once, if held by such an urn,
To ashes let me fade—
No wonder then that oft. I turn
To see my better’d shade I
The wrinkling brow, the careworn face
Are decked in gracious dyes;
Ah, lovo, thy beauty gives the grace—
The mirror is thine eyes.
OUT OF THE MOUTHS OF BABES.
’Twas only yesterday,
By the silver-shining strand,
We watched a hoy at play—
At play upon the sand.
He in his little blouse
Was bearing sand and sticks,
To build a little house—
A house, he said, of bricks.
A little breeze passed by,
Blew down the little house;
We looked to see him cry,
The boy in the small blouse.
Not he: he laughed and then
He built it up again—
A lesson this to men
Of perseverance plain.
We said “ Oh, little lad,”—
We said it, too, in rhyme—
“ Your architecture’s bad.
It blows down ev’ry time.”
He looked up from his sand,
That little boy, we wis,
Said “ Pa’s a builder, and
He always builds like this.”


W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 42 KING STREET,
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS}. WISH*
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS;
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH and'
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay-awif'Townsvllle
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
* To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.
Armstrong’s Remedy for internal or
Bleeding Piles
Rapidly superseding all other modes of treatment.
For the CURE of HEMMERHOIDS, largely pre-
scribed by the Faculty. It Improves the general
HEALTH, equalises the CIRCULATION, relieve*
CONGESTION, stops BLEEDING, Pain, and Itch-
ing, in from 24 to 28 hours. Sold in bottles only, at
4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 2e.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bllloua
PUls,
For the Cure of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,? alns in
the Side, Headache, Giddiness, Heartburn, Flatu-
lency, and Habitual Constipation. They give a
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary Organs
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver—and being
mild in their operation, promote Digestion, restore
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire System.
Price, Is., 2s., and 4s. fid.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
in Combination with Dandelion and Potash.
“ Recommended by the Highest Medical authority
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and Tonic.”
6a. fid., 10s. fid., 21s.
0Y" Goods forwarded to all parts of the colonies,
and Price Lists sent post free.
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnoni’a.
THE TRAMWAYS
ns con
(LIMITED).
JOHN SANDS, Agent,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE COMPANY having obtained the exclusive
right of
ADVERTISING
ON ALL THE GOVERNMENT TRAMWAYS,
directs the attention of
ADVERTISERS
to this
NEW and MOST EFFICIENT MEANS
of
Giving PUBLICITY to their ANNOUNCEMENTS,
whereby EACH ADVERTISEMENT
will be brought under the
ATTENTION of a TRAVELLING PUBLIC
of
27,000.000 PEB ANNUM.
Such an
EXCEPTIONAL MODE
of
EXHIBITING ADVERTISEMENTS
of
EVERY DESCRIPTION
has a
PRACTICAL VALUE
which cannot be too highly estimated,
possessing as it does,
ADVANTAGES FOUND IN NO OTHER
ADVERTISING MEDIUM.
FOR ALL INFORMATION
respecting
SPACES, PRICES, &c.,
Apply at the OFFICE OF THE COMPANY,
374 GEORGE STREET.
JOHN SANDS, Agent
J LAWLER, 60S George-street, Bedding Maau-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iroa Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,.
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1360.
THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGONS
FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 2 & 24
SYDNEY.
The Sydney and London Fine Art Company,
34=0 O-eorgre Street
(UNDER FREEMAN’S STUDIO),
Have OPENED NEW and EXTENSIVE PREMISES for the Sale of
Works of Art and Yertu, Oil and Water-colour Paintings, Steel
Engravings, Bric-a-Brac, Bronze, and the best Pancy Goods.
Artists’ Material of every description, Albums, Photographs of Celebrities, Terra Cotta
in all colours for hand painting, Crystoleum Glass, Dresden, Majolica, and Doulton
Wares. Pictures sold or bought on commission.
Gallery Open for Inspection from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
BROOK’S SEWING COTTONS
m
9R
Q
o
a
o
S
o
Q
-2s,
9.
<50
BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
NEW SHOULDER REEL
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
BROOK’S PATENT
GLACe THREAD
White, Black & all Colours
NEW SHOULDER REEL
o
P B B A
HOUSE
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Dunning.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
increasing]
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
7th WEEK
7th WEEK
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
[ ENTHUSIASM.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
BALLET OF NATIONS!
BALLET OF NATIONS!
BALLET OF NATIONS!
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.; Pit, la.
Bex plan at Huenerbien’s Music Warehouse,
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date In advance. Stalls and Pit tickets obtainable
at Stone’s, tobacconist-next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrove.
Last Four Nights of
MANKIND.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8, and terminating before 11 o’clock,
MANKIND 1 MANKIND 1 MANKIND !
Characters by Mr Alfred Dampier, Miss Blanche
Stammers, and Holt’s specially-selected Company.
Business-Manager for Mr. Holt, W. H. Seagraye.
UNDER the Patronage and in the Presence of
His Worship the MAYOR of Sydney and
the MAYORESS.
A GRAND CONCERT,
in aid of
A FUND for the PURCHASE of a PIANO,
will Ije given by the Pupils of the Crown-street
Superior Public Girls’ School, in the
PROTESTANT HALL,
ON WEDNESDAY, the 20th INSTANT.
HERR ALPEN’S CANTATA, composed for the
Opening of the Intended Juvenile Industrial
Exhibition, and selected by the Committee, will be
rendered bv 150 picked voices, and a Grand Orches-
tra, consisting of the principal artistes of Sydney.
BF" The solos will be rendered by Miss Moon
(soprano), Miss Marie St. Clair (contralto), Mr. F.
Brewer, and Mr. Percy Jones, who have most
generously consented to give their services.
HERR HUGO ALPEN, Conductor.
Fifty girls will perform a March, with ealisthcnlc
exercises, specially arranged for this occasion by
Lieutenant Mulholland.
Reserved Chairs, 8s ; Balcony, 2s. 6d ; Back Seats,
Is fld. Doors open at 7.30 ; concert at 8 o’clock.
OWL CLUB.
Second Annual Ball
(Plain and Fancy Dress),
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, 14th JUNE, 1883,
Tickets—Double, 80s.; Ladles, 15s.; Gentlemen,21s.
Can be procured by members or their friends
from the Executive Committee,
Mr. J. Caddy, President, 37 Sussex-street
T. L. Clarke, Vice-President, F. Lassotter & Co
W. Stewart, Hon. Treasurer, Pltt-streat
Morris Menser, Hon. Secretary, 384 George-
street
Walter Blrehall, Kldred and Co., Margaret-
strqeU
XXX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
XXX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
XX XX
XX “IVT OTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE XX
XX SUCCESS. XX
xx XX
XX OUR LATEST VENTURE. XX
XX xx
XX THE NEW TAILORING DEPART- XX
XX MENT. XX
XX XX
XX HORDERN PROTHERS XX
XX Leg to thank those gentlemen who have XX
XX honoured them with their orders dur- XX
XX Ing the past few weeks, and desire to in- XX
XX form them and the public generally XX
XX that in consequence of the unprece- XX
XX dented success of their new department, XX
XX and the large trade done therein, that XX
XX they have considerably augmented their XX
stock of Woollens by judicious pur-
cb{1868 of
NEWEST and BEST TWEEDS,
FANCY COATINGS,
and
FINEST BROADCLOTHS and DOE-
SKINS.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
F
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
profession.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HORDERN BROTHERS
XX also beg to inform the public that all XX
XX goods made at their Establishment are XX
XX invariably soaked for twenty-four XX
XX hours, thus ensuring to their customers XX
that
EVERY GARMENT IS THOROUGHLY
SHRUNK.
HORDERN BROTHERS would fur-
ther intimate that they use none but the
XX best trimming in the making up of their XX
XX TAILORING ORDERS, and therefore XX
XX customers can rely that they will not be XX
XX annoyed by the linings, pockets, &c., of XX
XX their garments proving unserviceable XX
XX before their clothes are halt worn out, XX
as is too often the case.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HORDERN BROTHERS, speaking by
the unanimous verdict of the large
number of customers who have patron-
ised their TAILORING DEPARTMENT,
XX can assure the public that all goods XX
XX made to order at their Establishment XX
will fit to the satisfaction of those who
have to wear them.
HORDERN BROTHERS therefore in-
vite one and all to leave their Tailoring
Orders with the new Cutter of the Pitt-
XX street Tailoring Department, where
XX every garment is cut on SCIENTIFIC
XX PRINCIPLES by an artist who has
XX proved himself to our numerous Cus-
tomers to be a thorough master of his XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
HORDERN BROTHERS tell the pub-
lic their prices cannot be beat.
They make TWEED TROUSERS from
13s.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
They make TWEED SUITS from 50s
and
XX They make every other garment equally XX
XX cheap. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
N
EW GLOVES FOR WINTER.
We invite the special attention of the
LADIES and GENTLEMEN
to our Importations
of
WINTER GLOVES.
Come and inspect them, and we guaran-
tee you will see
PRETTIEST NOVELTIES
ever exhibited in Australia, unequalled
for quality and cheapness.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
xx
XX
XX
XX OUR LONG JERSEY CASHMERE. XX
XX TAEFETTA, and KID GLOVES, Ac., XX
XX with Spring and Fur Tops, XX
XX are just the very best gloves to wear XX
XX these cold mornings and evenings. XX
xx XX
XX We have a fresh supply of XX
XX TERRA COTTA GLOVES,in Jersey Kid, XX
XX and Tafletta: also, XX
XX CAVALIER GAUNTLET GLOVES, XX
XX so fashionable on the Continent. XX
XX
XX TRY OUR 4-BUTTON FRENCH KID XX
XX GLOVES, at 2s lid. XX
XX XX
XX It is a noted fact we have the Best, XX
XX Cheapest, and most Extensive Variety XX
XX of XX
XX LONDON and PARISIAN GLOVES, XX
XX by every Mail, for Ladles and Gentlemen XX
XX to select from, at XX
XX HORDERN’S in PITT STREET XX
XX XX
XX HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
XX 211 PITT-STREET. i XX
XX Get out of tram at King-street, XX
XX Very near us. XX
XX DOFT WOOLLEN WRAPS, XX
XX O FASHIONABLE WOOLLEN XX
XX WRAPS. XX
XX CLOUDS, CLOUDS, CLOUDS. XX
XX A Splendid Assortment on View XX
XX TO-DAY, XX
XX At HORDERN’S in PITT-STREET. XX
XX XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XX
SENT in an Envelope for 6d. Stamps to defray
Postage.
SOCIAL SCIENCE:
A Treatise on all Nervous Disorders which cause
Impediments to Marriage, and all Chronic
Diseases ; also, How to Choose a Partner for Life,
so as to live happy and produce healthy children,
and how to regain and preserve your health. &c„ &c.
Address: R. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist'
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Military gymnasium, st. Philip’s c. e.
School, Church-hill. Principal, Lieut. W. P.
Mulholland. Classes meet Tuesday and Friday-
evening, from 7.30 to 10. Communications W. T.
Rimmer, hon. sec., 145, Princes-street,
W HOWES, Tailor. Best materials, lit, and
« workmanship. 141 Geo-st., op. Q. Wharf.
FOR SALE, in the rising township of Wagga,
a flrst-class BAKERY BUSINESS. Good
situation ; fli-st-class connection. For sale cheap,
the owner being about to leave the district. Ap-
ply “Baker,” Post Office, Wagga Wagga.
YDROPATH Y.-MR. JOSEPH REEVE,
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, Colds Acute or Chronic Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis, Liver
Complaint, Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases. All persons who are suffering,
and weary of using physic, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A few weeks’
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladies and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment. Terms on
application.
“ Throw physic to the dogs. I’ll none of it.”—
Shakespeare*
“Purification in the old law did save life.” Milton.
Address:
8 Royal Terrace, Nicholson Street,
FITZROY, MELBOURNE.
A decidedly musical town. So-fa-la,
Mrs. Langtry but let her have a spell.
A Victorian writes; Time-payment pianos
■have In Dubbo quite superseded the cat and organ-
grinder agony.
The American doctors have got hold of a
man whose heart Is on the right side. They are
now searching his feet for brains.
Mr. Bennett, of the San Francisco Palace
of Art, has produced some fine instantaneous
photographs of the ceremony of unveiling the
Mort Statue in Macquarie Place.
Glass shingles are the latest invention.
They’re very handy, for when a mother lays her
little Tommy across nor knee, she can look through
and see just how much redder he gets every stroke.
Travelling stock reserves have in the past
been a more delusion and a snare. The souatter
fences them in at pleasure, and stock as a rule have
to take the nearest route possible, however cir-
cuitous and confined.
The other day a bruised and mangled form
might have been seen lying on the kerbstone at
the intersection of King and George streets. This
was the party who had called In to ask Mr. Cole for
a subscription towards the Ultimo fire-brigade.
The Protestant Standard is unco wrath
over Reid’s appointment of Dig nan to the post of
school attendance officer, for the sufficient reason
that the said D. is a Holy Roman. The P.S. is ever
true to the principle, “And nowabldeth spite,
hate, and bigotry, but the standard virtue is
Bigotry.”
Quong Tart, whose portrait we gave last
week, was brought up in Braldwood, under the
care of Mrs. R. B. Simpson, a member of the Want
family, from all the members of which he received
a degree of kindness which he still remembers
with keenest gratitude. All classes in Braldwood
dealt with the young Oriental with so much good
fellowship, that when Quong Tart goes to “the
golden shoah,” the word Braidwood will be found
graven on his heart.
On a married couple at Kempsey being-
hideously tin-kettled, the respective fathers of the
bride and bridegroom started out, and smote the
rabble who made the noise. The two larrikins’
whom they beat had the Impudence to summon
the parents, when the sapient magistrates meted
out justice (so far as their brains could discern it)
by fining them, with costs, to the amount of £3 9s.
eaeh. This is simply monstrous. Because the de-
fendants wouldn’t submit to an indefinite amount
of hideous hoodlumism, to a din which to a sensi-
tive person would mean hems of torture, they
were fined for stopping it I Tln-kettliug, in both
an active and a passive sense, has now become one
of the unalienable birthrights of every Australian.
The Sydney and London Fine Art Co. have
this week opened their new and central premises
at 346 George-street (under Messrs. Freeman’s
studio). This establishment (which is one of the
largest of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere) is
replete with novel and interesting articles of bric-
a-brac and vertu, and is certainly one of the sights
of Sydney. The Picture Gallery has been splen-
didly fitted up and well-lighted, and in it will be
found a collection of oil-paintings, water colour
drawings, copies of Academy, Salon pictures, &c.
&c., in fact a representative collection of pictures
by English, Australian, and Continental Masters.
There is also a choice variety of proof engravings,
etching, &c., by the best engravers, from pictures
by some of the best artists. Amongst other new
pictures just received, is a copy of Richards’ cele-
brated Egyptian war picture, illustrating the
charge of the Life Guards at the battle of “ Kas-
sassin,” a work of art which will repay a visit.
The gallery is so well lighted that every picture
can bo seen to the best advantage. The manager,
Mr. Levy, states that they intend to open the
gallery for the Exhibition of Colonial Art, so that
artists who have hitherto been unable to find
central premises to exhibit their pictures, can now
do so with considerable advantage to themselves.*


Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PABTICtriiARIiY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
pg* No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D.. of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, said:
“Having in my own person experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, I,
having found great relief and alleviation by its
use, most cheerfully attest ray appreciation of its
excellence."
Indigestion and Bladder and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate has become afavour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it is
of the greatest value to me. I have given it in
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections or
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the samples of medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Hereford’s AcidPhos-
phate is the only one I have ever found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 23,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates, and almost always decline to do so, yet in
the case of “Hereford's Acid Phosphate,” I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value in functional
derangements of the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHAS. WOODHOUSE, M.D,
%W~ Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Braises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
theria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the best of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium*
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO M
Sole Agent*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal, “ Mankind ” Vide p. 10.
Opera House. "Manola” 1D -
J B. Howe is now playing the leading
part in “ Romany Rye” at the Britannia Theatre,
London. Actor and plav are about on a par.
When he was last in Sydney, he played at the
Queen’s Theatre. How well we remember his
raucous savage voice when he was playing In-
iroraar! We are not quite so certain, now we
come to think of it, that it was Ingomar; but, if
not, it was Julius Cmsar. Nothing but a high
tragic theme would suit J. B. Howe. Wo sat in
the lonely llea-iufested dress-circle in a gloom to
which the darkness that fell on Egypt was like a
llvc-million-candle-power electric light to the
sickly sputter of a tallow dip. You couldn t see
vour hand before you in the dress-circle ot that
dismal den, which, with a merry humour,—now
also departed from us—we used to call the Morgue.
And there we would sit and shiver while this
tomby tragedian rolled out his graveyard guttu-
rals which reverberated through the ghostly house
and died out meaningly in the cobwebby corners
of the lonesome passage. We have fallen asleep
while he has been speaking, and have dreamt that
we were being iiiQuested by a jury of ghouls who
jeered at our leariness. Every time we entered
the Morgue, a sleepy feeling came oyer us. We be-
lieve it was so with everybody else who went there.
People used to sit as far apart from each other as
they could. And they could sit a long way apart
in those times. Each seemed to have a sort ot
suspicion that his neighbour might at any moment
when the gas would Hare up, reveal a grinning
skull with eyeless sockets. But the poor old place
Is in ruins now, so we will notdanc© over its decay.
We are glad, however, to hear that Mr. Howe is
doin 0- well. How the lessee of the Britannia
Theatre is doing doesn’t concern us. Still we
should like to know.
* * * *
“The Strategist” is a real success at Ade-
laide. No use in becoming critical and sneering at
the performance as a “farce.” Whatever it is the
audience can do nothing but laugh for two hours,
and that is just where captiousness is out of court.
If Charles Mathews was right, the Polks fulfil
dramatic destiny. Charles averred that people
attend theatres “to be amused.” In any case,
Adelaide people are mightily amused with fhe
Strategist;” with the easy acting of Polk and J. L.
Hall, the capital character-sketching of Arthur
Vivian, and with Mrs. Polk’s pleasant plenitude
and excellent singing. There is no knowing how
long the piece will last, or when a change to * The
American ” may become necessary. Emelie Mel-
ville follows the Polks.
* * * *
The London correspondent of a Melbourne
paper says that Miss Alice Lingard was one of Mrs.
Conquest’s pupils at the Grecian, and he (the
London correspondent) remembers her line figure
23 years ago. This is the style of the London cor-
respondent all over. He remembers Alice, who
poses now as the most beautiful woman on the
London stage, 23 years ago ! Wo can just imagine
Mrs. L.’s joy when she reads this ; and wo can also
figure to ourselves the happy old time that the
writer would have if Alice could find out what
colour his door was up the court in Seven Dials.
By the way, quite a lot of Mrs. Couquest’s pupils
have got on well. There was Elise Holt (very big
in burlesque), and Jessie Anstiss (both dead, poor
things !), and Angelina Claude, and a lot more. We
dure say Mrs. Lingard remembers them. But we
wouldn’t dare say it if ’twere 23 years ago. By the
way, Luscombe Searrell’s Loudon address is Ame-
rican Exchange. Hem !
* * * *
Batehelder’s Minstrels possess, if not a turn
for humour, at least one for satire. They (the
troupe) are composed of singers, all of whom
are entitled to our respect, if only on ac-
count of their age. Fancy, there is Beaumont
Read, still singing “ Pretty Blue Eyes,” a lyric we
hoard him warble ten long centuries ago.
Wo arc old, too. Fredericks doing the usual
rumblo, and the immortal Ball. They do what
they call “ a laughable farce,” entitled “ The
Agony Column of The Bdxeetin,” which con-
cludes the entertainment. We should like to see
this farce very much, principally because, having
no “agony column” in our paper, wo have a sus-
picion that the production iu question Is another
name for “ Slocum’s Dog.” Wo thank those tune-
ful fossils, anyhow, for their ad. We should thank
them a heap more, though, did we want an ad.
The vicissitudes of actors are almost as
varied off the stage as on. The bediamonded
impresario, with his fingers biasing like gas-jets
and his pointed boots shining with patent polish as
his cheeks shine with glycerine soap, is a being ot
unearthly splendour when you see hi in languidly
pulling uii expensive cigar on the theatrical corner.
That is before he takes his company tor a tour in
the country. Some months afterwards, when you
see a party with a napless hat and a ragged v alance
around the bottom ot his pauts, his face unwashed,
and his hands unjewelled, standing on the same
corner, yon never suspect that it is the once gor-
geous creature you admired from a distance so
short a time before. But it is. He has gone
“broke” over his speculation—that’s all. Pro-
bably, in the course of a week or two, he
will ‘be as gorgeous as ever again. There is a.
peculiar Antous-like elasticity about members ot
the profession. You can never crush them utterly.
Not even it you are a hotel-keeper. This is all
preliminary. What we want to introduce is a
story about Mr. Arthur St. Vincent, an actor who
left Charters Towers to go home to England some
months ago, taking about £2000 in Queensland
gold along with him. He had large ideas, had this
Gentleman. When in England he got together a
company, which he proposed to tour with from
the North Pole to the South. Well, both he and
his company got shipwrecked on the Island ot
Gothenburg' in the Baltic Sea. Money, clothes,
everything but life, was lost. The English Consul
sent‘them back to Rotterdam. There, after con-
siderable difficulty, St. Vincent secured an engage-
ment at £1 per week. Out of this he is going to
try and save enough money to get back to Charters I
Towers, where his wife and family are. And, what i
is move characteristically audacious, he proposes to
bring another company with him. There are more
companies than corned beef out here just now, but
under the circumstances, we hope that Arthur,
who must be plucky and enterprising, will succeed.
* * * *
Mr. Beaumont Read (whom as we have
already intimated, we shall ever respect,
if only for old associations) writes us to re-
quest that we will notice a long clipping for-
warded by him to us, the author of which seems to
bo the Morpeth correspondent of the Maitland
Mercury. Well, if, next to Junius (and Lewis
Scott), there is a writer wc admire more than our-
selves, it is the Morpeth correspondent ot the
Maitland Mercury. He says, “the company
(the Batchelder Minstrels) consist of five gentle-
men, each of whom has a select [!!!] voice, and,
while giving jam generally, he pathetically re-
marks—“I have heard a lady and gentleman say
that they would have walked all the way from
Morpeth to hear Beaumont Bead smg the Little
empty cradle.’” ThaPs about enough on your
plate, Beaumont, this trip. Eh ?
* * » *
Mr. Chapmau, the elocutionist, has done
what wc expected he would—thrown aside the
“goose” and taken to the “road.” The first we
hear ot him is at Elmoro, where, it seems, a person
who professed to represent the show, but had no
authority to do so, created, in consequence ot dys-
peptic symptoms some contusion in the shop of an
eminent storekeeper, by mistaking some articles
of wearing apparel for three-sheet posters. Mr.
Chapman, whose recitations Mrs. Chapman taste-
fully accompanies on the piano, had a good house;
but, unfortunately, just as he was in the thrilling
part of “ The Raven,” the storekeeper m question
called out in bellicose tones, “ What about my
shirts ? ” There were people, it seems, flippant
enough to laugh at this. A “jest ill-timed, ot
course, hut still a jest. Then, when Mrs. Chapman
played “ Nancy Lee,” each one of the audience
sang it to the tune he knew best, so the effect was
very striking indeed. But we are glad to hear that
Mr. Chapmau is gathering laurels, if not moniy;
and we shall be equally pleased to learn that h« is
coining millions, and not walking back.
* * * *
J. B. Johnstone is 80 years old and is play-
ing a part in the “Silver King,” at the Princess .
He has been acting sixty years, and can’t afford to
retire. He says he will be able to manage, by
thrift and economy, to leave the stage in about
another sixty years. As to dying, he says he can t
afford tho expense. Cut this out old man, and
paste in your scrap-book. Let us twang the lyre:
What! three score years upon the stage,
And playing still a part;
Defying all the ills ot age,
And, with a young man’s heart.
Still working on with endless pluck,
And mocking Time’s advance;
While old companions all have “struck,
Or joined in Death’s dark dance ?
All hail, old man, long may’st thou don
The buskin and the sock;
And flout old Age as he comes on.
And give him back his mock.
Some sixty years thou’st struggled on,
But there comes ease and plenty;
In sixty more —dost listen, John V —
A hundred years and t wenty.
* * * *
George A. Sala, the genial Bohemian, is
down on his luck in earnest. Last Saturday night
he unfolded a gorgeous panorama of the world at
the Temperance Hall, Pitt-street, tor the small
sum ot sixpence. Alas! for Sala (observe how the
name reads backwards); but few seemed to hold the
sixpence. Early in the day fourteen men were
employed scratching the paint off the walls and
removing the locks from the doors in order to
accommodate the expected visitors, but the name
of the hall, and the Sunday closing clause of the
Licensing Hact, most effectually damned the whole
proceedings. Worse than all, however, is the fact
that George now spells Augustus with a “ H.”
* * * *
Jennie Lee is going to play “ Jo” on Satur-
day at the Royal. The adaptation from “ Bleak
House” is by Mr. J. P. Burnett, and with-
out impugning that gentleman’s talents as a
dramatic adapter, we feelingly recommend
our readers to peruse Charles Dickens novel
before g’oing’ to see the piece. Miss Jennie
is a lady constructed on the most approved
but most diminutive principles. We have known
her tor —well, no matter how many years.
We first saw her play the yamin in “ Little Faust,’
at the Lyceum; then subsequently a string of bur-
lesque parts at the Strand; then something in the
“ Black Crook,” at Niblo’s; then “Nan the Cood-
for-Nothing,” at the Union Square; and then—
remembrances lost in the silver mists of time.
It may be interesting to many to know
that Mr. J. P. Burnett is Miss Jennie Lee’s second
husband. But she is so charming that it is a
matter of wonder to us that she has only had two
husbands. We are very charming ourselves, and
ten years ago we could count our lawfully wedded
wives on our fingers. But we can’t now. We
thank heaven, however, that our toes are still lett
to keep tally on. Wo have not seen Miss Loe since
she arrived, so wo pass the shining hours wonder-
ing whether she nas grown. If not, tho dear
little woman and Dunning could comfortably re-
side in a tea-cup, and afterwards drown themselves
in the saucer.
• • •
We have hal one “Jo” here: that was
Miss Georgina Smithson. We saw the performance
of this lady, and admired it greatly; but just as
we were about to shed tears, two boys cracking
nuts in the pit channelled our grief in another
direction, and we laughed afterwards to that ex-
tent that the man on the door came up and asked
what had made the horse in the piece cough so.
♦ * *
We hope Miss Jennie Lee has a lot of suc-
cess in this play; because we wish success to every-
body. And it is a touching thing, mind you, when
an actress plays in an adaptation written for her-
and how lovingly written-by her own hub! We
are coming on Saturday; and as we are sure to cry
a good deal, perhaps the management will kindly
supply, if not a tent-fly, at least a;dustor.
Miss Ada Ward, who lias lately been play-
ing at Portsmouth, has announced her “ final
appearance on the stage.” In eight or nine weeks,
therefore, wo may expect a revival of As You
Like It,” with Miss Ada as llosalmd, and the New
Queen’s, and Larry Foley, Esq. (the lessee and
manager), as Charles the Wrestler. Oh, and what
is becoming of all our old institooshuns t Here,
we seethe Yokes Family are a terrible frost in
’Frisco, their songs being stale, their dances old,
and their gags funereal. Victoria and Fred, how-
ever. it seems, are shortly coming to Sydney,when
we shall have “ Fun in a Fog,” and The Belles of
the Kitchen,” until we shall be very ill indeed.
However, it is kind of the Vokes’s to come to A us-
tralia, anyhow. The Yokes Family’s specialities,
by the way, they consider to be singing and
dancing. They never could sing, but we dare say,
they can dance still. People can generally dance
longer than they can sing. Anyhow, as they grow
old, the dancing is less painful. All the \ okeses
are considerably married—Fred, Victoria, 1 awdon,
and Kosina. And all their farces are as long as
their lives appear to be.
* ♦ ♦
Before the world grew wise, Mr. E. Lewis
Scott (Alderman of J ungeroo) used to write poetry.
But now that the universe is getting square-
headed and tomahawks are cheap, Mr. Scott courts
the muse no more. Whether mankind is to be
congratulated upon this or not, is a question which,
for fear of unduly complimenting Lewis, we prefer
not to discuss. Few people, however, will deny
Mr Scott one merit. He has written lines that
will never die. This couplet, for instance, has
burned deep into the hearts of thousands;—
“ Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove, they say,
They’ve got the Theatre Royal from next May.
There is a juiciness about these lines which renders
them superior to the Sapphic, more beautiful than
the Byronic. London has—we may say revels in—
a bard who, like Alderman Scott, is a poet, whose
lines, once read, will be remembered a lite-
time! His name is Ball; simply Ball—and
i nothing more. Unlike Lewis Scott, Mr. Hull s
1 station is humble. He is neither a “dramatic
author,” nor an “ art critic,” Simply a property-
man at the Strand Theatre. But in spite of the
vast social gap between them, Mr. Ball writes verse
wondrously like that of Lewis. So wondrously
like, indeed, that we have a shrewd suspicion that
Mr. Ball must have been at onetime, if not Lewis s
foster-mother, at least his hired minstrel—his
chartered Rizzio. On the “Comedy of Errors,
revived by J. S. Clarke at the Strand, Mr. Ball
sings as follows: —
“Oh ! what knowledge to the world the bard did
The works of his wonderful brain will for ever
live;
His plays are as popular to-day
As they were before he turned to clay.
We feel that there is something great in this ; but
it pales before the following sublime lines on lied
Mervin (who plays the Duke). Mr. Bali considers
that his conception
“ is really hne,
I could listen to a repetition of every line
That comes from one so deserving—
A gentleman, an actor, Mr. F. Mervin.
After this, while we can weep in anguish at not
possessing a Ball, we can smile through our tears
in the thought that a Scott is not denied unto us.
* • ♦ »
Speaking of Adelaide, our correspondent
informs us that there was £203 in the Theatre
Royal on Queen’s Birthnight. We had three times
as much as that in the Victoria Hall at a mauling
matinee held there lately. And we weren’t proud;
though if Patti had sung there she would probably
have had to hand the receipts over to the ticket-
takers to pay them for their trouble. Give us
plenty of blood here and wo are gay. By the way,
poor little Nellie Stewart is ill and had to leave the
company and go to Melbourne. Taken alto-
gether, Adelaide seems to be quite a lively place
fust now. When we lived there, an inquest was
about the most exciting thing we oversaw. But
now we have an idea of going back there—when-
ever we get tired of life.
* * # ♦
There are some wits knocking round the
town, evidently—more witty than polite. A rather
pretty young female opera boutfer was last week
favoured with the following: —
“ Send the papers, so we’ll see
How the critics do desert you;
Sober keep, and then you’ll find
Sev’ral people will respect you.”
And the joke is that the lady in question never
drank anything stronger than kerosene in her
llfe ‘ * ft ft ft
Mr. Hegarty is a gentleman of enterprise.
Finding that giving away, lavishly, large plots of
land didn’t pay, he has inaugurated a season of
“ Court Minstrels.” Mr. Hegarty, in the simplicity
of his heart, announced what he considered to be
a “brilliant array.” The “brilliant array” is as
follows:—“ Miss Vivian, Miss Lily Howard, Miss
Lizzie Morgan, Miss Vesta Amor, Miss Eva Win-
nette, Miss Beatrice Sutherland, Miss Olive Ross,
Miss Letitia Riley, Miss Amy Leslie, Mr. ShawCross,
Herr Koph, Mr. Russell, Mr. Farrell, Mr. Bibb,
Mr. W. H. Edwards, Mr. Minton, Mr. Callan, and
Mr! Charles Horton.” Well, we know Miss May
Vivian, but we don’t know “Miss Vivian,” nor
“Miss Vesta Amor,” nor “Miss Beatrice Suther-
land,” nor “Miss Lizzie Morgan.” Who are they ?
The performance, however, was sublime. Shaw
Cross was the interlocutor, and his rendering of
the pathetic ballad “Jennie, go for father’s rum,”
—or something—was inexpressibly affecting. The
entertainment is described as being “ d la »alon."
This not being French, is possibly Portuguese. And
this being the case, we respect it. Miss May Vivian
sang with much effect, “ Bring your dada sober
home” (it sounded something like this, anyhow);
and Miss Lily Howard was very successful in
another neat ballad. We should think, de-
spite the departure of Young Dutchy, that the
Court Minstrels will draw a lot of money. Tom
Buckley and Johnny Cowan are funny, but a lot
of their wheezes are bald-headed; and Mr. Shaw
Cross is a straight—a very straight—interlocutor.
The thing is bright enough, and pretty enough;
only those of the company that we have seen
before are somewhat painfully familiar. For
everything that is familiar gets painful. “Eh,
d’ you see r ”
• « « •
Harry Simmons tells us, with a smile, that
he has left “the perfesh,” and is now teaching
elocution in the Royal Arcade. This is rather, wc
should say, a poor thing for the profession—or
not. We forget which. Anyhow, Harry can elo-
cute, and since this talent on his part is bound to
bring about more amateur performances, we can-
not love him.
* * * *
And this reminds us suddenly, as we are
writing this, that there is a grand amateur per-
formance at the Masonic Hall. A portion of us
have gone there. For further particulars, see next
issue,
■ft * * *
We havj received from Miss Ivanova, a
book, containing any amount of press “ marma-
lade.” We will print this Interesting volume in
full when we enlarge our paper. This will be
shortly—but not very shortly.
ft ft ft ft
Harry Emmett and Lieut. Rose are going
starring in the country districts for a week or so
before Harry rejoins the Polks. Miss Marion Mel-
rose informs us that she has, through the death of
a mother-in-law, come into £8000. We are bound
to believe a lady.
Mrs. Brown, widow of Brown, the circus
Eroprietor, died at Wagga on Sunday, aged 77.
eaves lots of brown “sugar.”
The purest and best tonic for the over-
strained nervous system is the celebrated Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the most powerful, wholesome, and
successful of modern restoratives.


PEPPER AND SALT.
When Sir Henry was up South some time
ago, he called one morning at a certain Post Office.
Knocking, at first mildly, but at last violently, at
the delivery window, a voice from within said:
“You appear to be in a b hurry, old man.”
“In no very particular hurry,” stammered the
Premier in a meekish manner, as if rather taken
aback. “ Then what the h are you making that
d row for ? ” demanded the voice. “ I, ’ said
Sir Henry, “ was under the Impression that this
office should be open at nine o’clock.” “ This
office is open,” returned the voice, “when that
window’s up, and it’s shut when it’s down.” “ Well,
if you will have the goodness to tell mo when it’s
likely to be up, I shall call] again. I,” continued
Sir Henry, “ am quite a stranger to your customs
in this part of the country, and plead this as my
apology for having disturbed you so early. Good
morning, Mr. Postmaster.” “ Hold,” said the
Postmaster ; “ what the devil is it you want ? ”
“ ’Tis a matter of no moment, and will keep
till we meet. I simply called to learn if
there were any letters In this office for a
person by the name of Parkes.” Mr. Post-
master smelt a rat, and repeated: “A person by
the name of Parkes! Do you,” he enquired,
“ mean Sir Henry Parkes ?’’ I do,” answered Sir
Henry. “ Then such an unmannerly hyber is not
fit to carry his letters, and if I had time I’d run out
and kick you for speaking of one of the greatest
men in the world as if he were a common bullock-
driver. Go back, and you’ll find Sir Henry reading
his letters. The Postmaster himself took them to
him twenty minutes ago, and that’s the reason
this office ain’t open.” Peeping through a crack
in the window he saw Sir Henry depart; then,
seizing his hat and Sir Henry’s mail, which was
already sorted, he slipped around the back slums
like greased lightning, deposited the packet—for-
tunately for him unobserved by anyone about the
hotel—on Sir Henry’s toilet-table, then made sharp
tracks back, meeting Sir Henry straight in the
teeth half way up the street. “ Sir ’Enry Parkes, I
presume,” said he, accosting the statesman, and
giving as much Cockney to his voice as he
could. “ Yes,” said Sir Henry. “ I waited at
your ’otel a quarter of an ’our with your letters,
Sir ’Enry, but couldn’t wait longer, as I ’ad to hopen
my hofflce. I left the letters and papers under the
cover on your dressing table. I ham the post-
master.” “ And whom, pray, did you leave in your
office during your absence ?” enquired Sir Henry.
“ Nobody in the hofflce, Sir ’Enry, but there was a
friend in a room just behind the delivery window.”
“Good morning, sir, and I thank you,” said Sir
Henry. We saw this witty youth some two years
later. He was then bidding fair for Dalgarno’s
boots should a vacancy occur. The last time we
saw him, however, he told us that he had grown
weary of waiting: that there was but very little,
after all, in either Lambton’s or Cracknell’s billets—
he would either “ boss the ship” or die. Well, we’ll
back him not to die.
♦ ♦ *
Mr. Tyrrel, advance agent of the Marion
Willis troupe, ran away with the slavee at the
Camperdown Inn, where he had been staying while
wall-decorating for Keogh; and, what Is more to
the purpose, married her. The happy pair then
went to Warrnambool: and hardly had the newly-
wedded advance-agent seen the paste-pot on the
fire and got the bill-sticker sober than, behold, the
sanctity of his apartment was invaded, and the
bride escorted to the lock-up, charged with desert-
ing from her hired service. She was remanded to
Camperdown, and eventually discharged. So much
for facts. Now, many people of a sentimental
kind will be inclined to admire Tyrrel for marrying
this handmaid. We don’t. As a poetic episode
which Alfred’s bards might work into verse, it is
all very well: in theory it is pretty, and, as an
idyll, it is lovely. But then, you see, all the fat is
on the plates of the bride and bridegroom. No-
thing is said about the employers of the lady-help,
who had got her up at great expense, and had
humoured her in every possible way while there
to Induce her to, in the intervals of polite repartee
with the boarders, do a little bolster-punching and
to manipulate a duster. In a recent assault case,
prior to the hearing of which the girl also got
married (they’re at it all the time!), the mistress of
the house gave evidence that her servant came in
about ten, and remained in the parlour “ dancing
jigs and reels till one o’clock.” We don’t know
whether Jane Ruddle, the enslaver of Mr. Tyrrel,
was favoured in an equal degree, but we sup-
pose not. And yet, you see, she does a heart-
less flit, leaving the landlady to fry the sausages
for the boarders, and the landlord to japan the
bluchers of the same. Our experience of servants
has been rather extensive, and we have invariably
found that, just as we began to like a girl’s ways,
she would either get married to the milkman or be
inveigled into being a barmaid by the publican.
We have had an apple-cheeked lass of exceeding de-
mureness bring her wardrobe in a red shawl bundle
at 4 p.m., and the next morning we have discovered
ourselves feebly toasting bacon, the damsel having
mysteriously disappeared. Through our humble
means, we believe, more servant girls have been
married than through the medium of all the matri-
monial papers and journals ” in creation. Once
we chartered a fresh-looking young girl from the
Depot. Quite a treasure, this one; didn’t mind
wearing a cap; didn’t mind chopping wood; had
no objection to washing; and scrubbed the mansion
with a smile. Two mornings later we caught her
talking to the baker over the fence. The day after
that the baker’s mother (a most genteel person)
called round and had a prolonged interview with
our servant in our kitchen. Forty-eight hours
later we were lighting that kitchen fire with kero-
sene. We wished for vengeance, and would have
willingly had the baker quartered, but we did not
prosecute the girl. Though we have in general
the courage of our opinions, we did not possess
the determination of a Griffiths. We do not, in
sooth, blame the girls so much as we execrate
their enslavers. It is on record that no servant is
proof against the blandishments of an artillery-
man ; how, then, could you expect Miss Ruddle to
have resisted the fascinations of a professional
gentleman ? But, after all, let the landlord of the
amperdown hotel console himself. The man
who has wronged him is—married!
Mr. Edward Russell Daunt is evidently a
gentleman of a sensitive temperament. And we
sympathise with him in the feeling he shows in
not wishing that any person who has embezzled
moneys should be considered to be either a
member of or even distantly connected with his
family. Mr. E. Russell Daunt has, of course, a
position to keep up, A gentleman who hands
round the plate at suburban churches can’t afford
it to be said that any one connected with him has
ever embezzled anything. In his advertisement
Mr. Daunt says:—“I, Edward Russell Daunt, of
Sydney, N.S.W., third son of the late Richard
Daunt, of Knockahowlea, [III] Kinsale, county of
Cork, Ireland, do hereby solemly and sincerely
declare as follows:—That William Young Daunt,
convicted of emblezzementat Gympie, Queensland,
on Friday, 8th June, 1883, is not a son of mine,
and not a connection of any member of my family.”
As a matter of fact, although we watch the papers
pretty closely, we had quite forgotten, until we
beheld Mr. E. Russell Daunt’s ‘‘declaration” in
the Herald, that anyone bearing the illustrious
surname of the immaculate Russell had been con-
victed of, or even charged with, embezzlement.
We have, however, a faint remembrance of some-
one named Daunt being mixed up somehow with a
little share transaction, being committed for trial,
and then “guying a whack” to Shanghai. There
was some rumour, too, of this party returning, and
being locked up; and subsequently being enlarged
on bail again. We feelingly recommend Mr. E.
Russell Daunt to at once plank down the fees for
another “declaration,” and deny that the
Daunt in this case was “either a son of his, ora
member or connection of his family.”
A Chinese named Ah Kett was murdered
in Melbourne the other day. He was assaulted by
some persons with something sharp or blunt.
When alive. Ah Kett kept an assignation-
house. A Chinese gentleman and a European lady
are in custody on suspicion of having killed and
robbed Ah Kett. We are sorry for the latter part
of the indictment, for the situation is, at once,
divested of even a shadow of romance. As Mr.
Ah Kett kept a den of vice, we consider that if
whoever-it-was had been satisfied with killing him
off-hand for being the occupant of such premises,
he, she, or they would have been entitled,
if not to a Mort monument, at least to
the respect and gratitude of the community.
As it is, the question resolves itself into
this : Supposing the prisoner’s are guilty of
“ Ah Kett, were they or were they not
justified in seizing what property he had by way of
rewarding themselves for rendering a national
service? We put this to the public; because,
having been piously brought up, we have murdered
so many people ourselves whom we only suspected
to be or a different faith, and afterwards plundered
them, that, not only are our socks always odd
ones, but our backyard is so full of collar-bones
and skull-tops, that we daily expect a summons
from Inspector Seymour, We wish, though, these
people had confined themselves to the “ removal ”
of Ah Kett. The Bible tells us it is a good thing to
slay a sinner ; but the general impression appears
to be (we don’t know why I) that it is a poor thing
to rob him also.
• « •
Here are a couple of clippings which
admirably illustrate the tone of that organ of the
river-drift period, the Maitland Mercury: “ Now
the mere fact that a controversy has arisen about
the fitness of the picture ‘ Chloe’ for a place in
the public gallery proves its unfitness.” Suppose a
controversy should arise as to the fitness of the
Maitland Mercury for a place, not in the picture
gallery, but in the mummy department of the
Museum, what would that prove ? But let us turn
from such trifles, and give a specimen of
the whole-souled yearning earnestness of the
Mercury in the glorious cause of muffins and
bunkum:—“The Reverend Mr. Willis is a young
gentleman, has a sonorous voice, an intelligent
countenance, an agreeably-formed head, and a
pleasant face, which is not likely to be affected by
melancholy.” The agricultural and pastoral editor
must have written the foregoing during a brief
respite from the cares of the colossal-cabbage de-
partment. For, mark you, in its graphic descrip-
tion of his personal appearance, the Mercury
accredits this fascinating young parson with a long
list of the exact attributes which connoisseurs
delight to find in prize-bulls. For example, a bull
should be “young,” it should have a “sonorous
voice,” an “ agreeably-formed head,” and “ a
pleasant face not likely to be affected by melan-
choly.” But, for all that, an ordinary bull wouldn’t
make a very good parson, any more than an or-
dinary parson would make a very good bull.
BRIEF MENTION.
A death-adder in our midst—typhoid.
They superannuate postmen in Victoria at
60. We take them on at that age here.
The Adelaide city inspector is called Wil-
liam Shakespeare. He is a terror to stray goats.
This is a new Biblical joke. St. Stephen
was not exactly the orthodox martyr. The gentle
Jews just “ rocked” him to sleep.
It has been proposed by somebody to start
a Bushman’s club in Sydney. We presume there
will be a burying-ground attached.
Each guest at to-day’s Albury banquet
will only have 2(% inches sitting space. But there
will be plenty of room under the table.
Patti prefers a nigger performance to
anything else when she wants to be amused. We
don’t. We like a Synodical meeting better.
An “ alderman in chains” is London slang
for a turkey hung with sausages. A mayor In a
chain will some day be Sydney slang for a goose in
full dress.
Forty doctors dined together last Thursday
at the Metropolitan. There was much enthusiasm
when one leading practitioner rose and proposed
the toast of “ A Good Epidemic.”
There was a rumour throughout all the
Russias that when the Czar issued a Ukase after
his coronation, stating what he would do in the re-
form line, his Majesty was lying in state.
There was at one time a politician in N.8.
Wales who had considerable influence. His name
was Parkes; and one James Watson, who had a
lawsuit the other day, was a friend of his.
At a fire which occurred at a warehouse
in the city last week, some alleged firemen were
seen pillaging the goods. Cole says that future
fire-proof safes will also have to be fireman-proof.
Seventy-seven blacks applied for their
annual blankets at Grafton on the Queen’s Birth-
day. This generosity is growing to prodigality.
We would suggest that sheets be substituted for
blankets in future. Winding sheets.
A Melbourne exchange declares quite a
number of young girls have left their employment
in hotels of late “ to go to the bad.” So far as some
hotels are concerned, the girls who yearn for “ the
bad ” might just as well stay where they are.
Professor Liebeg states that 1460 quarts of
the best Bavarian beer contain exactly the nutri-
ment of a 2hs lb. loaf of bread. Very well. But
the Professor doesn’t seem to know that quarts
of beer contain more fun than 1460 lb. of bread.
The S.A. Advertiser carefully provided
itself with a telegraphed column of description of
the Miller-Foley glove-fight, yet “ wired ” into the
whole thing editorially the day afterward. “ Piety
and pruriency,” as the Age remarks of the Mel-
bourne Rum.
“A Herald cablegram announced, the
other day, that the Mayor of Moscow had been
disgraced by the Czar for advocating reform. We
should like to shake hands with the Mayor of
Moscow. Indeed, we would voyage as far as Dubbo
even to shake his foot.
The D.T. folks can concoct a headline. We
admit the fact freely, and without a grain of envy.
Nothing, probably, was ever finer than its “ Sensa-
tional charge of murderous and suicidal incendiar-
ism.” There you have murder, arson, felo dese, lire
and rum quite aesthetically Intermingled.
All the parties who are elected members
of fire brigades appear to be dubbed esquires. The
world will now have a chance of warmly respecting
a plain “Mister,” The late John Brown was an
esquire, created, and he was barely tolerated. But
then it must be remembered that he never flooded
a book-shop.
Patrick Hennessey charged with drunken-
ness and dismissed.— Country Paper,
“ Dog,” it is said, “ doth not eat dog,”
And by this righteous rule
When Hennessey devour’d himself
It meant “ drunk as a fool.”
By His Honor: “The Herald reporter re-
fused to take any lunch; he commented on the
snow-white cloth, &c.” Next day, an excited crowd
assembled on the steps of the Herald office, and
were with the greatest difficulty dispersed by the
police. They said they were “ a waitin’ to see the
reporter wot refused to eat.”
There is a person down in Gundagai who
believes that it was the real ark of Noah which
was discovered in a gorge of Mount Ararat some
months ago. We are not surprised at this. But
what we are surprised at is that they should have
got the news of the Deluge down in Gundagai so
unusually early. The local paper is evidently
making a spurt.
Very soon there will be no natives in Fiji.
The planters there punish the free coloured la-
bourers by wrapping them up in mustard poul-
tices. This is financial suicide. The records of
savage tribes show that the old cannibal instinct
dies hard. Knowing this, we were not surprised to
hear that one of the niggers so seasoned sat down
and ate himself.
A “ converted young man ” advertising for
employment in the S. M. Herald, expresses his
willingness to go to any “ light business.” He evi-
dently means the “ shining light ” business. Too
much competition, young man! There are more
sanctified slush-lamps—more grease than grace-
knocking about now than the gaols can accommo-
date. Try burgling.
The old story of the soldier who, when
being flogged, laughed ail the time, and, when the
officers asked in astonishment what he meant, said
“ Why, I’m the wrong man,” is going the rounds
of the N.S.W. country press. That all happened in
Germany. It couldn’t have happened here in the
good old times. They could never have flogged
the wrong man then.
Thomas Ryan was a brilliant scholar, and a
thorough master of four foreign languages. But
he couldn’t play cricket, and he knew no more
about the Marquis of Queensberry’s rules thgn
Dean Cowper, so he died at Louth, last week, from
“ exposure and want of proper food." Now’s the
time to pass round the hat, and present him with a
fifty-guinea tombstone.
The Bishop of Ballarat, while in England,
lost a Bible full of MS. notes, the results of the
study and reflection of years. It has not been re-
covered, although, according to the religious
papers, “a large reward” was offered. Now we
are open to bet that the “ large reward” was not
half the amount that Joe Thompson advertised the
other day for the recovery of his bull pup.
“Hi, gov’ner, yer chimbley’s a lire,”
screamed a Waverley gamin to a householder.
“ So it is,” he said. Then to the boy :—“ Here’s
five pounds for you my lad not to tell the fire
brigades anything about it.” In the papers next-
day :— ‘ A fire occurred at the house of an esteemed
resident of Waverley, but fortunately the flames
were subdued before the arrival of fifteen fire
brigades, which, with their engines, were in prompt
attendance.
The girl who was shot by her lover, some
t’me ago, has been discharged from the Prince
Alfred Hospital. The two bullets remain in her
head, but don’t seem to interrupt the flow of her
thoughts. Wo might have been astonished at this
at one time, but we are not now. We have known
edit newspapers, preach sermons, and deal
with the destinies of the country who had nothing
else but lead in their heads. Like hanging. It Is all
a matter of custom.
A New Zealand man, who was charged
with wife-desertion the other day, said “ he was
willing enough to keep and live with his wife, but
objected to support his mother-in-law.” Perhaps
he had his reasons. But what seems peculiar to us
about these domestic differences is tnat a mother-
in-law always seems to want so much support.
Now, don’t misunderstand us. We don’t say all
mothers-in-law drink gin. We daresay there are
plenty who prefer—ahem 1—ginger-beer.
THE REASON.
We wrote this to her, feeling sad;
We wrote this to her, feeling bad—
Curled up with grief;
We wrote this while we sadly mused,
And very plentifully used
Our pocket-handkerchief I
We’re better now. She had grey eyes
So lustrous, and of such a size,
None e’er were bigger;
A tint that you may Just suppose
Was half the lily, half the rose,
And such a figure I
She had a hand, you may, with ease,
Dream nought was softer made to squeeze,
And such small shoes!
She took—we’ll whisper this, lest you
Suppose what we sing isn’t true—
But number twos.
We loved her madly, and we wrote
More poetry than we’d care to quote,
WAITING.
We met him ere the first faint streak
Of sunrise lit the sky,
The air was very chill and bleak
As we were, by the bye.
But we had risen early, so
That we the dawn might see,
For we made hash we’d have you know
By writing poeti’y.
And here was one of kindred thought,
One after our own heart,
Whose soul aspired, with music fraught
To play the poet’s part.
Here was the man we’d looked for long,
The very man at call—
Whose bosom we should thrill with song,
The very man of all.
“ Good sir,” said we, “ you are not slow
The rising morn to greet,
Great souls like us each other know
The moment that they meet.”
His answer came in tone severe.
And plain without a trope in—
“ Oh, darn the dawn—I’m waiting here
Until the pubs, are open."
A Wish.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A wish ? and on your birthday, wife ?
Why wish ? for what are wishes ?
Intruders on achieving life,
Bile-giving dishes.
But you insist—then, wish I will—
But, what ? ay, there’s the poser.
That such a mate’s nigh perfect, still
Says each who knows her.
WHO HE WAS.
a SOLEMN FACT.
In a neat little suburb whore the grass is doubly
green,
Where the seedy Bible-hawker seldom, or p’raps,
ne’er is seen.
There resided in a villa, built to view a prospect
All and a cooing, a quite newly-wedded
pair I
Oh, that hubby and that wifey, what a gay old
time they had, , ,, ,
They ne’er saw the milk was chalky, they ne er
knew the beef was bad.
All they asked, and all they prayed for, from below
and from above,
Was a very little wafer and an awful lot of love.
No one, no one, came anigh them ; they hid from
the public view—
Clasping, kissing, and protesting, they passed all
the days, those two I , . .. . ,
Never saw a single person, not a soul of that slow
ilk
Never even saw the party who left twice a day
their milk!
One day called a seedy person, and he in the front
room sat, . , .
Very, very, patched his pants were, shocking rusty
was his hat— , , . . „
“Dear young people,” thus he sniggered, “Ive
come to wisn you‘all hail!’
Have you, dear young married couple, any bottles,
here, for sale ? ”
“Now, you aged, seedy loafer,” cried the bride-
groom, “just you scoot—”
Then he raised a very pointed, and a very shiny
boot.
“ Hold on 1” cried the shabby stranger, with a very
injured air;— _ _
“ Don’t you dare to go and kick me. Hang it! Tm
the bloomin' Mayor."
And left it for her.
We knew (for girls in every clime
Can swallow down long yards of rhyme)
It wouldn’t bore her.
She read it all; our heart beat fast.
She smiled; joy, that, too great to last;
And said, in tones so mellow—
“ You are he who could bring me bliss;
But—just look here—the fact is this:
I love another fellow."
’Tis but your due. No wife more pains
Has ta’en to smooth the dusty
Highway of duty, and remains
A sweetheart trusty.
With crisp, firm touch your fingers press
The keys, and Music slumbers
No more, but wins with soft caress
In subtile numbers.
Your simple songs thrill through the heart,
Soothe and enchant the hearer;
How pure, how round the tones which start I
And speech is clearer.
Advice worth following you can give;
How sweet your honest kisses!
How differently you plan and live
To mincing misses 1
To wish a change in anything
Of these were worst delusion,
’Twould make the house a desert —bring
Most dire confusion.
Your pies and puddings are divine,
Your mulled ale such a nectar;
A taste thereof would turn from wine
The portliest rector.
You grill superbly—to a turn
Can toast a piece of bacon;
The servant girls with envy burn
When thus you break on
Their realm. Your salads all confess
To be delights abiding,
Where the partakers loudly bless
The hands providing.
’Tis plain I cannot wish you here
A change; nor in that sunny
Economy where ends meet clear
Ere gone our money.
I would not wish back Time’s ebb’d tides,
That’s hardly ’mid fair maybes;
You’re mellowed and improved—besides,
Where’d be the babies?
You have not, as do shallower souls,
Forgot what’s brightly pleasant;
Your hand is finer, and controls
A happier Present.
You are an artist, whether you
Make melody or breeches;
Why ask if years are more or few,
When all bewitches ?
Your beauty’s unimpaired, and shown
With no age-weighted glimmer—
But must I f—then, I’ll wish, my own,
Your waist were slimmer.
ON BIT.
Visitor: “I called, sir, to—to—that is to say, I have long aspired— er—at least I
hoped—that you have paid attention to my—I mean you know that you can not he
aware that I have cherished an affair of the hope that you would give ray consent—O !
dash it all, 1 want to marry your daughter, Jane. Do you catch on i
Systematic Man of Business : “ What in blazes do you come bothering aboiit such
matters during business hours ? Call round at the house some evening, where 1 have a
room especially fitted up for giving my blessing!”


An old shearer, about to start for the
E’len shore, found his way to a Murrumbidgee
pital. He had money, but no friends, and the
i of the hospital authorities was to 44 shepherd ”
him. He said when dying that he wished to leave
his little hoard to some charity, but when asked to
leave it to the hospital, he inquired whether that
was really a charitable institution. Eventually, he
made his will, benefiting the hospital to the extent
of £300. Then he died. Next day his poor clay was
shunted to the graveyard in the wood-cart.
While we were at work last Sunday, a
Vanguard was pushed under our office door. We
notice from the Van. that 44 any officers of the
Gospel Army who can’t write his name must
get some friend to do it for him; and, in the case
of Captains who cannot write, their Lieutenants
will be held responsible for their reports, if able to
write.” What will they do when they’re asked to
sign the visitor’s book as they enter the gates of
Paradise ? Fancy how the janitor would smile in
his wings as he read “Joyful x— (his mark)—
Johnny 1”
The Presbyterian, a paper which we
read (there is no chaff about this) “ religiously,”
says that when cows are whipped, and children
t»ke their milk, the kids get sick. Well, we have
a lot of oow’s milk in Sydney, and we have
been so bad that the only explanation we can sug-
gest is, that the cows which supplied us with our
penn’orth had been mangled. The milk we re-
ceived was of such a cerulean hue that no amount
of whipping could have produced that delicacy of
colour. The address of the cow is to be had on
application to this office. We believe she receives
on Thursdays.
Cyrus Edgar Fuller, the distinguished Par-
ramatta journalist, was recently hauled up and
fined for 44 going round a corner at a pace faster
than a walk.” Cyrus probably thought he saw a
patent medicine hawker ahead who looked like a
man who would pay cash for a fat advertisement.
And we came near forgetting this. Cyrus once
declared that a certain citizen looked like a hurdy-
gurdy Jackass, upon which the opposition fiend
wrote to say that the libelled citizen did not,
because a Jackass was Fuller in the head, Fuller in
the body, Fuller in the legs, and, in fact, he was
Fuller all over. That broke Cyrus Edgar up com-
pletely.
Says the Sydney War Cry.—“ Some of the
worst men in Sydney were now to be found in the
ranks of the army; the same thing would take
place in Newcastle. Amen, and Amen.” Well,’tis
to be hoped they’ll stop there. No other body is
anxious to enrol either the “ worst men” of Sydney
or Newcastle in its ranks. Here's another splinter
from the War Cry:— 1 “One sister said last night
she could hardly walk; her soul was so filled with
glory that she had to dance.” It’s a curious coin-
cidence that this is precisely how the ordinary
“human” feels wao carries six inches of rum
under the belt. In fine, it would appear to be the
thing de rigueur in 44 spiritual” matters, mundane
and celestial.
At Gerraauton, is a squatter with a pen-
chant for military manoeuvres. His sheep were
being killed surreptitiously, and arming his station
hands, he determined to make a sortie on the
marauders. He started his forces at dusk in the
sheep region, and about midnight there was ter-
rible commotion among thd tlocks. The squatter
ordered his men to 44 present arms,” and just then
the flock x-aced by followed by a black object.
44 Fire! fli-e!”—and the bush echoed with the roll
of musketry. 44 Mount! pui-sue!” and in a few
seconds the force came up with thii-teen sheep
wounded to death; and —and the black object was
wounded in the tail slightly. The poor old black
sheep had been lame for some time, and so was in
the rear.
Owen’s notion that the editorial difficulty
is to find something to fill up with is based on, per-
haps, the most delusive of popular delusions. The
editorial difficulty is, when a prosaic Q.C. or a
turgid M.P. talks about three dozen columns of
rot, to get it boiled down into sufficiently narrow
space. When Mr. Owen, Q.C., has time, we’ll allow
him to inspect our waste-paper basket. There is,
in this respect, a great difference between jour-
nalism and law. If a journalist writes rot, it is by
the discriminating editor carefully shoved under
the table, and nobody either sees it or pays for it;
but when a lawyer talks rot, he is not only paid
through the nose for his “tenpennr eloquence*,”
but he is listened to under pain of contempt of
Court by an audience constrainedly respectful and
more or less limited; moreover, he is paid all the
same by the unfortunate client, even though the
latter go to gaol.
The Evening News article dealing with
Mr. Morton. B A., who asserted that newspapers
should bo placed under the censorship of a sort of
holy council consisting chiefly of parsons, was, on
the whole, one of the neatest leaders wo have read
for some time in any colonial paper. But the News
writer made one grievous error:— 44 Mr. Morton’s
proposals for bringing the Press under due sub-
jection are not unlike Dean Swift’s 4 Short and
Easy Method with Dissenters,’ with the difference
that while the satirical Dean intended to teach his
generation by a reductio ad ahturdum, our local
luminary se-ims to be quite in earnest.” Now, is
there anybody who does not know that De Foe the
Dissenter, and not Dean Swift, the toady of the
Ministry and keen seeker after a bishopric, wrote
the 44 Shortest Way with Dissenters "—that he had
to stand in the pillory for it, and there received
such a triumph as to seriously alarm the Ministry ?
Has the News never seen the 44 Hymn to the Pil-
lory,” and does it think that the 44 satirical Dean 4
was the author of both ?
WANTED, A BACKBONE.


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you arc sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in'making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill
for
HOP BITTERS
arc a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you"’arc wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will 11 nd a "Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
£500
will be paid tor a case they will not euro
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a tritle.
WIU you let them suffer?
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHA
T-A-IXjOIS,
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
“ The Apparel oft proclaims the Man.”
MR. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
In the United States and Europe (London, Paris,
Berlin, &c.), and has arranged for the introduction
per each Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, &c.
CLOTHING is made up at the shortest notice by
the best talent in Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions m
Art and Material guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen in the most distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention and Advice given in matters oi
Dress, Style, &c., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
For the protection of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures 531 are of raanimotn
dimensions—the largest on any establishment m
all Australia.
S3T” The Fashionable World of Australia, and
the great middle class of the cities and towns a»
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Northern Agricultural
Association.
1883,
NNUAL SHOW at Singleton on WERNER
DAY and THURSDAY, 15th and 16th August’
Over 500 Prizes offered!
Entries close Wednesday, 1st August'
No Entry Forms required by this Society.-
Prize Schedules with Regulations forwarded orf
application.
C. POPPENHAGEN, Secretary.
POLITICAL POINTS.
APROPOS.
“ What’s in a name ?” Why, oft we find
The name, the use just hits;
Was not our “ Taylor ” just design'd
To give crass members “ fits ?’
After the Albury railway hyginx are over
Lord Augustus Loftus, lady, and suite will pay a
visit to the Governor ot Victoria, Commissioners
will be gazetted to administer the Government and
the Viee-regal poultry during His Excellency's
absence. Cupid and the president of the Canary
Society will probably constitute the Commission.
The O'Sullivan and the Luscombe are at
loggerheads. Luscombo says that O’Sullivan has
jumped at a false issue to gam his ends. O’Sullivan
says that Luscombe is a dogmatic old gentleman
with an elastic imagination, whose advocacy is
more likely to injure than to advance any cause
that he may espouse. Between these two—well,
stools is a good word—the wurruking man’s cause
will not come to the ground.
Sir P. A. Jennings fired a “marble” at
Sir Henry at the Nyngan banquet. He said that
Sir Henry had left his mark on the Continent, as
witness the load of statuary and European curios
arriving to his order on account of the N.S.W.
Government. Doubtless, future generations would
be benefited by the cultivated taste engendered
through the costly importations of modern Italian
statuary. At present, the honour of the country
required that we should endorse the actions of the
late Premier, and pay tor them.
A remark which fell from Mr. Wright, in
the Assembly, the other evening, shows how it is
that our Civil Service is so efficient! Mr. Poole
risked for a return of the appointments made in
the postal department during seven years, on the
recommendations of G. L. Carter and John Davies,
C.M.G.! Said Mr. Wright; “ It will take some time
to prepare the return.” If we had had to make
the appointments, it would not take five minutes
to prepare a return showing those made on the
recommendation of certain engineering politicians.
M'Elhone and O’Mara had a “set-to”—in
words —in the fighting arena in Mocquarie-street
during “ the short session.” The remark had not
the least relevancy to the subject under discussion,
but M'Elhono, glaring at Chrysostom, bellowed
something about some one pretending that ho was
shot in the back in the bushranging times. The
application of this seemed to bo very clear to the
Tumut youngster, who rose from his seat and ex-
claimed-in excited tones: “I’ll shoot you in your
face!" “ You dare not!” “We’ll see!” Interpo-
sition of Mr. Speaker.
“ He looked on these trams as a legal
abomination.”—John M'Ei.hone.
So Mac speaks out, and loudly damns
As an abomination, trams;
As something, in their daily usance,
A most obnoxious public nuisance.
But, sweet Mac, will you never know
That they who bully, rant, and blow,
Amongst our Parliamentary crew,
Are an abomination, too ?
And are, in a more strictly true sense,
A most pestiferous public nuisance.
Mr. Gladsone, the cable tells us, has in-
formed the House of Commons that his Govern-
ment took advantage of the presence of Mr.
Errington in Home to explain to the Pope the
nature of the situation in Ireland. This is all right,
and a very suitable sequel to the fact that when
Mr. Errington went to Home, Mr. Gladstone’s
Government was questioned as to whether he had
a mission, and denied the fact point blank, with all
due solemnity. “ Do not lie, my son,” wrote Lord
Chesterfield; “but if you find it necessary to lie,
lay your hand upon your heart, and say ‘ upon my
honour.’ ”
Thus a New York exchange:—“Why have
wo not better laws? Because the Rum Power fills
the scats of the N.Y. and Brooklyn representatives
in the Legislature. Why are the present laws not
executed? Because the Rum Power elects the
aldermen who confirm the Excise and Police Com-
missioners. What rules the city ? Rum Power.”
Might not something similar be truthfully writ of
a certain Power that in New South Wales exercises
a mischievous influence within the Legislature and
in Municipal Councildom? Mind you. there’s al-
most as much mischief in the other extreme, the
cold-water power.
Inverell demands of its Richard Lenou
Murray that he shall form a party of all in the
House who love justice and their country, and
therewith wage a steady opposition to any and
every Ministry by whom the railway from Glen
Innes to Inverell shall not be voted at once! And
Inverell has subscribed £170 in aid of the crusade
which its Murray is to preach. Inverell should
tack on two ciphers to the tail of the £170, and
then it might bo possible to form a party of those
who love—well, of those who, though they may
love country and justice well, love perks and
etceteras a blanked sight more.
At Albury celebration of the opening of
the through lino from Sydney to Melbourne, the
toasts will be “The Royal Family,” “The Health
of the Governors of the Two Colonies,” “The
Junction of the Two Colonies,” “ The Parliaments
of the Two Colonies,” “ The Commercial, Agricul-
tural, Pastoral,and Mining Interests,” “ThePress,”
and “The Ladles." In proposing, seconding, and
replying to these toasts, some two dozen speeches
will have to be let off. Out of respect to the feel-
ings of H. E. Lord Augustus Loftus, no poultry
will bo provided by the caterers. A special
grace, jointly composed for the occasion by Dean
Cowpcr and Pastor Allen, contains a prayer for
deliverance from Parliamentary dyspepsia.
The latest red-hot political pamphlet in
Queensland gives the following list of the “ anti-
monopoly” squatters who are opposing MT1-
wraith’s transcontinental land grant railway pro-
ject, tooth and nail:—Wilson and Do Satge hold in
the Gregory North 5119 square miles of country ;
Jones, Green, and Sullivan hold in the Warrego
H7t5 square miles of country ; James Tyson holds
in the Warrego 3(500 square miles of country ;
Edward Wieuholt holds in Gregory North 3142
square miles of country. Consider this. Sixteen
thousand and thirty-seven square miles—or ten
millions two hundred and sixty-three thousand
six hundred and eighty acres—in the unsettled
districts held by four firms! Besides this, in the
settled districts, Edward Wieuholt owns the sta-
tions of Jondaryan, Fassitern, Degilbo, and
Tiframpa ; and goodness knows what liens he may
pqye on otlfer stations and settler^.
Lypch, J4-P-. is “ moighty irfcinsed”
about the working of our present tramwqy sys-
tem. and “ bqwldly ” the cars should be
fun by “ejacthriejt-y.” “All ye Ipiv f do,” says
the Cgreoar Edison, “is t’ flxh up a few little
plainpy pots full of sulphuryous acid an’ some
other sthutf behoind th thrarns, an’ thin y’works
two little kqobsi up an’ down, an’ away she goes
lojko blazes. Shqre, raoy frind Misther Cracknill
pip) be there an’ back with elqcthricjty before yer
owld iron kittle av hot watfiur cud give three
schipu'ts an’ a pig-jump.” Andy is also “ moighty
wrath " about the number of the “blue-bag” fra-
ternity 1ft thp Hong;, and thp bungling style in which
dome of the most important measures are drawn
up, “Th’ more Joyers we have loiko tbim,” says
Andy, “th’ less law—an’ what wo want now is more
sound loyers and—and—and fewer ov thim.” Throe
for you, Andy.
The fallen knight of the Globe distin-
guished himself the other night by making his
first speech in this Parliament—in other words,
since the members removed him from the Speaker’s
chair. The Tramway Bill was under consideration,
and Sir W igram, in a much-injured tone and in a
way which implied that his only thought was to
ace that suffering humanity was not further
trodden upon, suggested that it would be most
unreasonable to exclude from the game of “ grab”
at the Treasury those persons who issued writs
against the Government on the day when the
judgment of the Supreme Court was delivered.
One of tiio first writs issued on the 18th of May
and three or four signed and soaiod before
the third Judge had concluded his remarks —ema-
nated from the olllco of “ Allen and Allen, solid-
tors.”!!! Of course it would bo most unreason-
able for the right of action to be barred in this
case! But the Legislature did not think so.
Mr. Price, the dyspeptic member for Wide
Bay (Q,), writes to the local papers there an extra-
ordinary letter. He understands that a Mr. E. S.
Booker wishes to contest the electorate with him,
and he says ho is "agreeable to dose before the
next Parliament” on condition that Mr. B. shall
place in one of the local banks £500 towards his
(Mr. Price’s) current expenses. This comes of the
mountebanking of Taylor and M’Elhone. It seems
that since Mr. Price's escapade with the Salvation
Army, various of his constituents, headed by
Booker, have “guyed” the honorable member on
account of what they allege to be his chronic (hie)
dyspepsia. Mr. Price, therefore, demands before
resigning his seat to give Mr. Booker a show, and
stipulates that the latter shall devote £100 out of
the £500 “to my refreshing requirements during
the election.” If Mr. Booker is wise (and holds it)
he will accede to these little conditions—only that
he will give Mr. Price £200, instead of £100, towards
his “refreshing requirements.”
The Victorian Kensington Hill job has been
dissected. The revelations are peculiar. Summa-
rised, they show thusly. In May, 1882, Peter Yeo
offered to sell the Victorian Government 160 acres
for £52,000. Minister Bent declined to purchase
t he land, but made an offer to buy the soil. The
Railway Department thought it necessary to secure
25 acres of the 160; yet, though Bent could have
got the 160 acres for £52,000, he agreed to give
£32,000 for the 35 acres I After Bent had pledged
the Victorian Government to give £32,060 for less
than one-sixth of the whole block, a syndicate ap-
peared on the scene, the representatives of which
body bought the land for £48,000. Should the
Government have to stick to Bent’s arrangement,
the syndicate, by its clever underground engineer-
ing, will got £32,000 from the public treasury for 25
acres, leaving it with 135 acres (worth at least as
much per acre as the portion taken by the Railway
Department), for which it will only have paid
£16,000! This shows what a clever syndicate can do
when bent on spoil.
The recent story about the Fenians sending
clothes infected with small-pox to their English
enemies of high degree, now turns out to bo a
shameless hoax, played by Mr. O’Rafferty, of
Dublin, on the Premier and several other high
goverment officials. Mr. O’R. sent little notes,
worded somewhat at follows, to Mr. Gladstone and
others; “ Private and Confidential.—Dear Sir, The
clean underclothes which you put on last Sunday
morning were all infected with malignant small-
pox. Your washerwoman is a Fenian. Take them
off'at once is the advice of A Friend.” Mr. Glad-
stone immediately rushed up stairs, took a hot
bath, fifteen grains of calomel, sent for all the
family physicians, and had Mrs. Gladstone and all
the household vaccinated. The other goverment
officials all took similar precautions, and were
equally frightened, with the exception of the
Prince of Wales, who when his Secretary rushed to
him with O’Rafferty’s missive, merely smiled, shut
one eye, and remarked: “Too thin, they can't play
me—I haven’t changed my underclothes for three
weeks.”
Joe Cook thus sums up the perils of Aus-
tralia:—“Concentration of population in cities, and
comparative smallness of rural population; neces-
sity of managing cities under universal suffrage
and party government; absence of an aristocracy
and a leisured class, to set a high standard in man-
ners and social fashions: formation of now classes
in society, especially of a lawless and explosive
lower class, a pushing middle class, and an over-
worked upper class; crude transitional state of the
democratic thought of the masses in our day; the
rising to power of a generation that has not seen
England or Scotland; opportunity to gain wealth
swiftly and hence haste to bo rich; passion for
amusement and luxury ; excessive secularism ;
sectarian rivalry; bondage of pulpit to pews under
the voluntary system; climate, increasing the
danger of the characteristic vices and weakening
the characteristic virtues of the British people,
energy and purity suffering always some diminu-
tion in subtropical regions.” On some of these lines
Joe is right, but clearly out of it when he laments
secularism and the absence of an aristocracy, and
bewails the fact that some cornstalks haven’t seen
the land of Knox, oatmeal cakes, and sulphur.
Here are some valuable tables. They are
from the report made by the U.S. Tariff Commission,
and were used during the recent session of Con-
gress in the course of a speech in the interest of
Brotection :—Ago—United States, dating from the
declaration of Independence, 100 years ; United
Kingdom, dating from William the Conqueror,
800 : France, dating from Charlemagne, 1100 ; Ger-
many, dating from Charlemagne, 1100 ; Russia,
dating from Peter the Great, 3oD ; Austria, dating
from Charlemagne, 1100. Population — United
States, 50,150,000 ; Great Britain, 34,505,000 ; France,
37,166,000 ; Germany, 45,367,000 ; Russia, 82,400,000 ;
Austria, 39,175,000. Wealth — United States,
£11,000,000,000; Great Britain, £9,000,000,000; France,
£8,000,000,000 ; Germany, £5,000,000,000 ; Russia,
£3,000,000,000 ; Austria, £2,800,000,000. National
Debt—United States, £360,000,000 ; Great Britain,
£760,000,000 ; France, £200,000,000 ; Germany,
£180,000,000 ; Russia, £100,180,000 ; Austria,
£400,000,000. Expense—United States, £51,400,000 ;
Great Britain, £83,000,000 ; France, £130,oOo,()00 ;
Germany, £30,000,000 ; Russia, £120,000,oOo ; Austria,
£74,000,000. Production—United States : Agricul-
ture, £1,500,000,000 ; Manufactures, £1,600,000,000.
Great Britain : Agriculture, £240,000,000 ; Manu-
factures, 800,000,000. France : Agriculture,
£400,oOO,tXK) ; Manufactures, £500,000,0()0. Ger-
many : Agriculture, £360,000,000 ; Manufactures,
£44O,OOO,O0O. Russia : Agriculture, £400,000,000 ;
Manufactures, £260,000,000. Austria : Agriculture,
£200,000,000 ; Manufactures, £300,000,000.
* * *
This is a straight tip. The Argyle electors
are done with Mr. Holborow, M.P. Already
they are pledging themselves for all futurity
to George Rankin Why is it that none of “the
Greek ” clergy attended the Queen’s Birthday
levee ? And why is it that the Stuart Government
have so suddenly dropped out of favor with those
gentlemen ? Does it mean revenge for the action
of the Government in striking the names of Dalton,
Burke, &c., off the Commission of the Peace?
“ Rats, how to destroy them.” This is a com-
monplace little work, which is recommended for
perusal by Oliffe, O’Connor, M'EJhone, Coonan,
Garvan, Slattery, and Lyne In John Douglas,
who defends the MTlwraithian railway policy,
Forbes has found a fbeman worthy of his steel-
pen Western Australia has many grievances—
bad old laws, relics of a bad old system that arose
in convictism and remains semi-feudal and wholly
unjust. Has not the time arrived for Downing-
street to sweep away these old grievances with its
new Broome V The N.S.W. Protection and Poli-
tical Reform League has forgiven its president,
Ninian Melvijle, for not supporting Sydney Smith’s
local industry motion. This get on the. League’s
part has created a gulf ’twixt (t and the Trades,and
Labour Council — Should thq Assembly think it
well to investigate the, circumstances erf the Maaon-
ElklngtonzWatsop stink, it will prove awkward
that Mr. Speaker should have held a brief in the
suit whence the aroma arose Smiler Long-
more says there are better men walking about
the streets of hell than the landlords of Victoria...
Rumoured that Rev. Mr. Brentnall, managing
editor of the Brisbane Telegraph, is to be brought
forward at the ensuing general electioiras a candi-
date for the city in opposition to Mr, William
Brookes. Liberal Opposition to a pure Liberal...
Tasmanian and South Australian records, as wbll
as Victorian and Queensland ones, contain each a
precedent Of a special session convened in antici-
pation of the date to which Parliament hud been
prorogued....Jennings, in his speech made last
Saturday at the far enu of the Bogan, very neatly
disposed of Parkes’assertion, “that he (Jennings)
was unworthy to hold a portfolio,” by quoting the
report of a speech made by ’Enry a year or so ago,
in which he declared that for urbanity, tact, and
first-class business capacity, he (Patrick Jennings)
was a regular one-er All the Australasian
Government agree that Great Britain should annex
the New Hebrides. ..“Mild Steel” suggests that
the same of the patriot local industrv men is a
mild steal .. .The Pope forbids the R.C.‘Bishops of
the Colonics to identify themselves with Irish
politics — Inscription has raised N.S.W. Stock
per cent.
Elections to new Egyptian Assembly come
off at close of this month The Roman Catholic
hierarchy of America have demanded of their
clergy to disavow the aims of the Irish National
League De Lessens’ pledge on behalf of Suez
Company, to undertake construction of a second
canal, evidently not believed in by British ship-
owners, who have decided to form a second canal
“on their own hook.” — The Italian Chamber of
Deputies has voted a million francs for the pur-
pose of erecting in Rome a national monument to
Garibaldi. Possibly, the shock of hearing of such
a vote hastened Sir George Bowyer’s end Last
week, Turkey, in trying to enforce the cession of
some Albanian territory to Montenegro, lost 1500
men, the Albanian loss being 500 Kelly, Phoenix
Park murderer, executed on Saturday Jingoism
has again been rudely shocked by the grand old
man refusing to assign any reasons for not giving
“Albany” the Viceroyship of Canada. Possibly it
would be still more shocked were he to assign his
reasons. Leopold, who is very well off, should
lot well alone, and not exasperate the Liberals and
Radicals by any further display of family greed...
Thus a recent visitor to Madagascar's chief sea-
port :—“There is hardly a single native house in
Tamatave where a ruin-barrel is not kept ready
taliped—the population is visibly decreasing, and
vice of every sort has become more and more
intense. Numbers of natives absolutely live in a
state of serni-intoxication, and have become so
steeped and sodden with rum that they are beyond
the reach of any higher influence French gar-
rison at Hanoi reinforced by 1500 men Nihilists
displaying great activity.. . The Czar has exempted
the poorer clashes from poll-tax, that is to say he
consents not to demand what the half-starved
unfortunates have not to give The Premier of
the Quebec Cabinet has been compelled to resign
his seat for bribery and corruption of voters at his
last election. Canada can’t be much of a country
for a politician to live in According to Joe Cook,
of Boston, the illiteracy of the United States as a
whole, stands thusFive millions of the fifty
millions of the population of the United States
over 10 years of age cannot read ; six and a quarter
cannot write. Of the ten millions of voters of
the United States one in fi ve cannot write his name.
Eighteen millions of children and youth on school
rolls: average attendance only six millions.
The Rev. John Osborne.
The Rev. John Osborne, who is about to be
put upon his defence for preaching Chris-
tianity to the heathen in the York-street
Wesleyan Chapel, Sydney, is a native of New
South Wales, having been born in Wollon-
gong in 1848. While Mr. Osborne was yet a
minor, his father died, and he, at the age of
18, entered the office of the late James Hart,
M.P., solicitor, with the view of qualifying
himself for the legal profession. Deprecia-
tion in the value of certain properties from
which the young man derived the main part
of his support, necessitated an abandonment
of his plan, and he entered the business
establishment of Mr. John Bright, of Wol-
longong, in a clerical capacity. Later, Mr.
Osborne obtained a situation with Messrs.
Farmer and Co., of Sydney. It was during
this engagement that Mr. Osborne joined the
Wesleyan Church, of which denomination
his father had been a member; and shortly
afterwards he quitted business and com-
menced a course of private study, with the
view of entering the ministry, in I860 Mr.
Osborne became a minister, and proceeded,
first to the Manning River, and six
months afterwards, to the Navigators’
Islands. He Avas in these islands only
about eighteen months: the Conference
removed him at his own request. The Held
Avas small—the Avhole population numbering
only 85,000 —and there Avere, at the time of
his arrival, a dozen missionaries belonging
to the London Missionary Society, and three
belonging to the Wesleyan Mission. It
seemed to Mr. Osborne that there were not
only too many European missionaries in the
front, but also that it was most undesirable
for tAVO societies to be at work, and prac-
tically in opposition, in such a limited held.
He, therefore, sought and obtained a re-
moval, and Avas sent to the lonely island of
Rotumah, Avhere he spent four years, and
then had to leave on account of the failure
of his Avife’s health. Returning to the
colony, he Avas appointed in succession to
Adeloug, Yass, NeAvtoAvu, and Newcastle,
Avhich last named place he left less than
three mouths ago to assume charge of the
church in Sydney, Avhere his ministrations,
as events have shown, were quite as much
needed as they Avere at Rotumah. It is not
to be supposed, however, that all Mr. Os-
borne’s Sydney congregation agree Avith the
“ hate thy neighbour ” paganism of the
handful Avhich is assailing him. On the con-
trary, a large section is heart and soul with
their minister in his earnest endeavours to
inculcate true Christianity, and to “allure
to bl ighter worlds and lead theAvay ” in the
comprehensive, loving spirit of his great
Master.
The Clements (a Newtown club) beat the
Manly footballers last Saturday, by a goal and two
ties to nil,
“Tell it not in Gath.” Cupid placed by-
Calcutta Exhibition Commission on committee on
“ Raw Products.”
Henry Irving, the English actor, has a
thousand wigs. What a lot of poets must have
been scalped to fit bim out!
The Government has decided to proceed
with the erection, at the top of King-street,
Sydney, of a magnificent building which, will
serve as a Library, as a Technical College and
School of Design, and a Technological Museum.
Last mail brought to Melbourne Papal
patents granting the title of “ Knight Commander
of the Illustrious Order of Pius,” on Dr. Brown-
less, Hon. N. Fitzgerald, and Sir John O’Shanassy.
As Sir John is dead, how about Papal infallibility ?
We are sorry to have to state that Mr. J.
Lee Lord, M.A., who was beat known as one of our
wealthiest young men, and as an enthusiastic
sportsman, died, on Monday night, of typhoid
fever, which is now making a fresh attack on the
community- The deceased gentleman was married
but three years since to the only daughter of Mr.
Eustace Smith, late of Sydney.
The football match par excellence, so far,
of the liugby season is expected to be that played
between the University and Redfern clubs,' on
Moore Park, next Saturday. The first fifteens of
each have not been beaten yet, and last Saturday
University against Balmain, and Redfern against
Wallaroo, were exhibitions of football of the
highest order. Let us hope that spectators will
keep well behind the lines, and that those fasci-
nating young mashers who ostentatiously break
the lines by crossing the field of play will be pelted
with—say bits of Moore Park. We don’t urge
violence, you see.
Ou Friday evening a party of medical
gentlemen representing the N.S.W. branch of the
British Medical Association met at Tidswell’s
Metropolitan Hotel for their annual dinner, Dr.
Maekellar occupying the chair. Dr. O’Relllv, in
giving the “Parliament,” pointed out how closely
it was allied to the profession, as on it depended
the important matter of ensuring pure water,
healthy towns, unadulterated food, roomy schools
for the people; and from it they expected a
Medical Act which would enable the public to
know the qualified man from the quack. Dr.
Manning proposed the “ British Medical Associa-
tion,” which was started forty years ago, and now
numbers something like ten thousand members.
After less important toasts, the company disposed


315 George Street.
A r t e ,y of , our undertaking's MOST SUCCESS
JULLY earned out, among which will bo found
LAKGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
REbPONbLBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOlt’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1000, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.'s PRINCES AL-
BERT a J? d GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1252,
Exhibition Building.
BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
I R 'G'’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner ala Rime, for 60. in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CD I L-
demonstration—u nder
VERY ShORl NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.,(0
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR U.K.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GJkGRGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, sout h n,le>
ot liotany Hay. Picnic luncheon and rein
ment, forlOO, under VERY SHORT NOTICE
eeiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the soot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Tovn
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at E\
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE AVINDEYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner «la Rime at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Men.
bers of the CBURCH OP ENGLAND SYNOD
D ££ ( l r Ji a „P ,M,sc t0 thG INTERCOLONIAL RI h . K
TEAMS, Town Hall.
T^?JiV2 c .2 G , or ,U lnd Refreshment Bars at HAWK k i
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
Tto and Refreshment Bars at RAN •
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our now Banon I
Room,
Banquet at CAMDEN, Tramway Opening.
ARM I DALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Bum
quetlor 400; MAYOR’S BALL, (500, same even n
..nd CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following m e ,
Dinner to the PRESBYTERIAN SYNOD.
Breakfast to the CONGREGATIONAL SYNOD.
ST. VINCENT’S Hospital Ball.
THE MERCANTILE Rowing Club Ball.
N \Vr??S2V, 8 T 5^ ( } l J' ets and Entertainments by III
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d In Rime in the N S AV
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, whi,
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners
leasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tei
Meetings Land bales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishim
Excursions, &e.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, COMPLAINT, AVEAKNESS, ’ &t.
PRICE..
a
2s. 6d.
A. G. KEBBLEAVHITE, Chemist, &c.,
43 ERSKINE STREET ; and
AV. H. SOUL, Pitt Street.
KOUMISS! KOUMISS!
THE GREAT MILK DIET.
CURES
Indigestion
Heartburn
Debility
fa
&c. &c
CUBES
Diabetes
Bright’s
Disease
Consumption
&c. &c.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
KOUMISS is not a quack remedy, but i
prescribed and used by all the leading Physician!
and will POSITIVELY CURE the above complaint;
We cordially invite the public to call at our offlei
BOND STREET, and judge for themselvt
of the EXTRAORDINARY TESTIMONIALS a;
ready to hand from well-known citizens. Referenc
is permitted to all the leading Physicians, also t
the following: The Lady Superintendent ChildJen’
Hospital; Rev. G. Macarthur, King’s School, Pars
matta; Alderman R. Butcher, Mayor.of Woollahra
Duncan M'Kay, Esq., Whlttlnghara; Augustu
Morris, Esq.; Rev. J. J. Carroll, St. Augustine’!
Balmain ; Rev. Z. Barry, St. Matthias’. AVoollahra
Capt. Rountree, Balmain, and many others.
NERVOUS DEBILITY
A CURE GUARANTEED.
isi
mm
TR EATM TNT'
|R. E. C. AVEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREA’
" MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, co
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, uervoi
prostration caused by the use of alcohol ortobacc
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of tl
brain resulting in insanity and leading to, miser
decay, and death; premature old age, caused I
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgenc
Each box contains one month’s treatment, 5s.
box, or six boxes tor 25s.; sent by mail prepaid c
receipt ot price. We guarantee six boxen to cm
any case. With each order received for six boxe
accompanied with 25s., the purchaser will recei\
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to refur
the money it the treatment does not elfect a cur
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists i
Australia.
EVERY\ US. IISSIOOIlf WOKIT
A valuable book, describing how suffeiv
I ers from Mervona and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders result-
ing from Excesses, Indiscretions or
Overwork, are permanently Cured
WITHOUT STOMACH MEDICATION.
>Voak, nervous Sc Impotent Mon restored to
VIGOR, HEALTH AND MANHOOD.
Consultation and Book free. Address—
MARSTON REMEDY Co., 350 Gcorgo St.
SYxyjsrdsir.
MAW
SHOULD
READ
The Protestant Standard gave a report
of the late prize fight between Miller and Foley,
without any editorial comment whatever.
Bishop Nevill, of Napier (N.Z.) speaking at
the local Anglican synod, gave his quarterly income
as £90, out which last quarter £75 were deducted
for law charges and other expenses, leaving for his
Lordship’s support, and that of all his state, the
liberal sum of £15!
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
. Mongolian miser took ill lately. The
u, at Wagga couldn’t cure him—be-
ChiBOflo doc or ?.% u i(] n 't pay.” When ho
as found sewn up in his clothes.. Pre-
like unto the Fisheries Act is the Game
4°nVpcHon Act Both are costly farces; and the
Protection aci j Thus James g. Bray with
Gume^Actaueaa m Ab m.L.A., considers the
™,*Ki of school-attendance officer “a veryim-
l,0*l„ntnost ” He’d doubtless want words to ex-
Hie transcendental altitude of such a billet
Indian Viceroyalty. An ex-policeman, un-
immoral or thoroughly unreliable man,
make a very good attendance officer.
is not an Abigallite.. Hence these
walker alia* Kelly, professional burgler,
seventeen watches and a lot of jewellery
* !irn «Tomora establishment. He was arrested in
dSr/hng hall of light of a frail creature of
vvLvft fn whom ho confided, but who turned round
The St. Leonardltes want a jetty and a
whlmrniace put up for them at Newport by Go-
’arnment Stuart says he will seo what ho can do
Jhn ttheJetty; but the bathing-place they must
Srect themselves. Ho also says he expects they’ll
t asking him next to send Government nurses to
them....Victoria should certainly issue a
S of writs de lunatiAM-asylo xnquxrenda Latest
f«ri showing necessity for such action is the state
of affairs at the Ararat Asylum, where. It Is said,
the female attendants put-Sairey-Gamp Sairey
name getting drunk on the stimulants prescribed
fOTt lie patients, and then ill-treating the patient in
most brutal way-beating them with towel racks
and°bunches ox keys, puffing then, out of their
beds by their hair or ears, giving them aperient
noses to weaken them, and otherwise behaving
towards them like fiends incarnate.... A Long wood
fvtp ) farmer, full of home-made foreign-brand
Southern whisky, drove his cart along the railway
line. The train won, and he reached the mortuary
station Austral sailed for Glasgow on Saturday.
The 8.M. Herald says that r ‘the demand for
blue metal seems increasing.” Have they another
poet on the Echo staff? At a tea-meeting held
near Dunedin, N.Z., a short time ago, one speaker,
who posed as the friend of the working man,
pathetically referred to the fact that;working men
were often described as “ horny-handed sons of
toll,” and gravely advised the said sons of toil to
“ rub their hands with glycerine or olive-oil every
night before going to bed,”....“ The firemen were
repeatedly urged to desist from pouring water into
the shop as the fire was over.” Thus Mr. Edward
R. Cole, of George-streot, Sydney. The brigadiers,
however, would not come to a full stop. Their
watery game was Cole on: hence notes of exclama-
tion from Edward K, who failed to see their point.
— On Friday last Mr, Courtney Woods called for
two drinks at Mrs. Annie Anderson’s pub. The
landlady, on his preparing to go without paying,
called attention to the omission. He said he was a
“D.” on a mission. She gave him into custody, and
he is now prosecuting his mission in Darlinghurst,
convicted of personating Detective O’Sullivan
Alfred the Awful tells of a frightful accident
which happened to a Strawberry Hills ’bus one
day last week. The front axle broke, and fifteen
unfortunate fellow-creatures lost their—dinners.
Much sympathy is felt for their wives and families,
many of whom had to eat a double allowance of
roast pork and apple dumplings—Civilisation is
spreading fast. A Sydney Chinese insolvent has
just “shoved,” leaving a select circle of sorrowing
friends to mourn his loss, and an Indian Maharajah
has cracked his crown through being bucked off a
bicycle —There are in Sydney 650 blind persons,
if whom only 14 are beggars.. .Only 450 aborigines
eisl/ned their blankets at Maryborough (Q.) this
yOS#,Soourfleld, tailor, who sued Victorian Go-
werwttgnt for £4000, railway collision damages, got
jE78$The other evening a Sydney broker wired
bis Gywpie agent to buy 200 Golden Crown shares,
At 34s. per glJUre. The telegraph operator made it
2000 shares. The mistake was only discovered after
two-thirds of the parcel had been closed for. The
difficulty, which at one time promised to result in
pujch litigation, was ultimately got over by the
holders agreeing to take back tneir scrip and can-
*sei the sale Victorian gunboat “The Mel-
bourne,” launched last Wednesday at Newcastle-
on-Tyne.,, The late big jewellery robbery in Mel-
bourne still a mystery. Query: Was there a robbery?
, ..itain all over N.Z. on Queen’s Uirthday Sir
William Jervoia made a “big hit” at Auckland,
the old seat of Government. He stayed there
about seven weeks, while the other provinces
were only treated to flying visits — At Wagga,
Walter Henry Travis came within the fatal grip of
A saw-mill, and in an instant the circular severed
hfs legs. In another instant he was Hung into the
air, and descending on the rapidly revolving
saw his body was literally cut in halves
Some Masterton (N.Z.) residents, while out shoot-
ing, met a most extraordinary and terrible looking
animal, the sight of which almost paralysed them.
They describe it to be about the size of a dog, with
A,hort legs, long hair curled at the ends, large eyes
jaws, and broad muzzle. Their dogs pursued
i- 1, fut one returned nearly flayed alive, and the
would hunt no longer. The Maoris declare
fit to if, & a “taniwha”—a sacred animal of amphi-
/blopehabits, in which the spirit of the rivers and
waters gre said to reside. The spirit of the N.Z.
and lakes is said to bo whisky
A 20-foot alligator was seen the other day in the
Fitzroy near Kockhampton, and was fired at but
.without effect Peter Campbell lectured at
,Louth on “How to be Happy.” Get married.
D'ye hoar, Peter? This is the very latest cool
,thing. A flock of travelling sheep was camped on
-,the Newstead road, when two men with a cart
. came along and began to cut the throats of the
,sheop and throw the carcases into the cart. They
then rapidly drove away. Police pursuing A
jmung Scotch heir recently gave a notorious Mel-
money-lender a bill for £1000 at six months,
£800 cash! When it came duo ho duly
.dishonoured It, and took a lunar at old Moses when
(he threatened to sue, telling him ho was under age,
.and. therefore, not responsible. Tho other day a
Melbourne “ Christian ” charged £20 for tho loan
,qf £30 for a w,oek One of tho most powerful
(hallucinations of a woman committed to tho
iLunattcAsylum at Auckland (N.Z.) lately was, that
was engaged to he married to tho Prince of Wales
...Cobb s coach from Wilcannia had the other day a
heavy load, eleven convicts—who travelled in
bunches of three, ironed hand and foot together,..
prior to the birth ot his illegitimate
Murgatroyd got married, but
not to its mother, Annie Woods. When summoned
to the poHce-courthe “pleaded guilty,” but said
ho was now unable to support his wife and
to pay tor the child. He was ordered to pay 10s.
i! w , e L v ? m n ilths f rom the date named
by plaintiff, the 1st April, which theP.M. remarked
was a most suitable Annie-vcrsary.” Ellora
arrived at Sydney on Monday; 310immigrants; five
died on passage —41 rabbit districts—and inspec-
tors. in NjS.W—James Barker released, after
doing one halt of his sentence, for the historic
Adelaide insurance frauds. Barker has friends at
Court, we don’t mean the Supremo Court
Blayney fellows have started a social club under
the name ot the Dynamite Brigade. "....Twopeny
re ff6rd to his proposal that an Australian
Exhibition should be held in London, that he will
not aocep t any position whatever in connection
with it..! How about Joubert ?— “ Imperfectus ”
t?i j ir " ' Bobinson’s latest ballad; so, also, was
bladen s. ...A six-year-old charged with stealing an
orange, value 3d., at the Port Douglas (Q.) police
court. His mother pleaded guilty, and the unmiti-
gated ruffian was discharged with a caution—and,
let us hope, the orange — The first locomotive
ever run m New South Wales is to he painted up
and exhibited as a relic. That’s quite Wright
Mr. C. S. Alexander, over twenty years C.P.S., at
Goulburu, appointed P.M—Water and irrigation
leagues on the move in North-Western Victoria.,
rijian Legislature proposes to abolish actions for
breach of promise of marriage Thus Tawhiao
to an interviewer, week before last: “Let us pull
together.” And they lifted their elbows and took
a long pull together.,. .James Duncan, coach-
maker, of South Australia, has invented a scheme
of obviating break of gauge difficulties On
Sunday, William Hornby suicided at Alberton,
Port Adelaide. He turned his wife out and then
took a dose ot carbolic acid . .The crimping lodging-
house-keeper and his runner still to the fore in
Sydney. The “advance-note” is by them con-
verted into an evil Institution. Legislation
urgently needed in the interests of Poor Jack.
* * *
Peter Cooper, mechanical engineer, builder
of the first American locomotive, founder and
endower, and for thirty years administrator, ot a
School of Arts and Science, just dead, aged 91.
There be Coopers and Coopers... This is simply
delicious ; and what is more to the point, it is
true. The wife of a labourer living near Lincoln
committed suicide by hanging herself on the
branch of a tree. The body was cut down and an
Inquest held. The jury, after some deliberation,
gravely delivered their opinion that death was the
result of inflammation ot the bowels and rheuma-
tism in the knees! This takes the cake for solid
stupidity even from our own jurymen. Another
idol shattered...Lord Wolseley said, the other day,
that the army had not only derived much advan-
tage from the creation of the volunteer movement,
but had found there was a great deal to learn from
the volunteers, specially as to shooting and skir-
mishing — The French postal authorities are about
to introduce a new envelope to secure the secrecy
of letters and the prompt return to the sender
without having to open the envelope. The new
envelope is so made that the sender’s address can
be seen only by the clerks of the Dead Letter Office
—the how not yet made known John Bright to
be Uted by Birmingham.
" THE POOR PLAYER.”
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
Leopold Jordan, who was imported by
Dunning, has settled at Adelaide as instructor of
amateurs in stage business, and college boys in
elocution— Bandmann was “ an artistic ” but not
a big financial success at Gympie. His opening
piece was not very gorgeously mounted, two
ricketty cane chairs did duty as thrones, the pre-
sence chamber had a bare floor, and a dirty one, too.
Such are the straits of the poor player .The fol-
lowing advertisement appeared in the local Miner:
—“Mr. P H , who was present at the
Eerforraance of “Shylock” last Saturday night,
egs to Inform the tragedian, that so exact to
nature was his performance, that one of his blessed
persuasion left the theatre while his touching part
was properly pourtrayed.”... Professor Denton
drawing full houses at Townsville Bandmann
has a standard joke. Whenever he writes or tele-
graphs to arrange for a ball, he notifies that he
intends producing plays “by one William Shake-
speare, now dead,’’.,Now {bat George Darrell’s
“ Naked Truth” js withdrawn, he should bring out a
new piece entitled “The Full-dressed Lie.”... A
gentleman only seven weeks from Paris declared
to Mr. Harwood that the “ Mascotte,” as he saw it
in Adelaide, was better sung, acted, and staged
than as he had seen it in Paris, Mr. Harwood be-
lieved him. He was careful, however, not to add
that he bad not seen it in Paris, Only your
travelled man know exactly when he has said
enough.,, A man in the dress-circle at the Royal
went out to have a drink, the other night; and,
on returning, trod upon a lady’s toes, jammed her
knees, and smashed her fan. Then, putting his
face down close to her’s, ho said; “1 hopsh you’ll
sexcuseme (/lie).” “Oh,” rejoined the lady, “I
don’t mind your going out to have a drink;
but, what I most decidedly object to, is your
bringing the public-house back with you.”.. .
Mr. Fred. Marshall does not improve as rapidly as
was at first hoped. He has been suffering from in-
flammation of the base of the brain, and was still
under the care of Dr. F. Carr Beach, whoso special
study is the brain. Mr. Marshall bad received
several offers to appear in America, London, and
Africa, but the doctor still forbade him to play....
B. S. Smythe continues to drive Archibald Forbes’
war chariot through Queensland. Brisbane, the
Darling Downs, Townsville, and Charters Towers
have been invaded. Then his course is to ravage
the coast towns, storm Gympie, and clear out with
his milliards. This, by the way, is the first time
that Northern Queensland has had an opportunity
of enjoying — Smythe Archibald is now I
scooping in coin plentifully. Before sailing
for ’Frisco by the July steamer, he will give ;
three farewell lectures in Sydney, when a few of
the millions who have not yet heard him will have
another chance of doing so. Albury, Wagga,
Goulbiirn, Bathurst, Newcastle, Maitland, and pos-
sibly Grafton, will be visited by him ere he gives his
farewell lectures in Sydney—The Evening News
says “ the theatrical manager is known by the’com-
pany he keeps.” So he is. Also by the critics he
snubs Lynch Family coining money in W.A
Miss Annis Montague, the eminent operatic artiste,
is a native of Honolulu (Sandwich Islands), and isa
daughter of an American missionary. Her hus-
band, Charles Turner, halls from Notts, and began
his public career as a cornet-player Sheridan
was evidently a great success at Orange. One
young lady was so overcome that she had to be
carried out of the hall, in violent hysterics
Johnny Hall was so very unwell during his sea
trip to Adelaide that he declared on landing he
had “thrown up everything but his engagement.”
Wo fancy we’ve heard this before—Perhaps Mr.
llignold has been more applauded than any other
actor who has appeared in these colonies tor a long
time past. The mathematician of our staff calcu-
lates that if applause could bo traded away for
cat’s-meat Mr. llignold would have enough capital
to open an international pie-shop to-morrow. This
is something like popularity.
• • •
A sad thing happened in one of Emmett’s
(“Fritz”) plays in New York. A child actress of
eight years, named Peggy Miller, whose parents
and associations were all of the stage, and who
loved her work on it, was standing at the wings
waiting her cue to go on and dance with Fritz.
The opening bars of the air wore already floating
up from the orchestra. Little Peggy looked up
into her father’s face and said, “ Papa, I’m afraid
of that dance.” "Be careful, dear; do it easily,
dear,” ho whispered. The next moment she was
before the audience. The dance began, and went
oti uninterrupted to the close. But Fritz suddenly
felt the little figure tremble and sink. Then it lay
a dead weight upon his hands. He lifted her ten-
dorly, carried her to the wings, and laid her in her
lather s arms. Little Peggy had tainted. Next
day she died. The best child actress, Fritz said, he
had ever seen Managers sometimes receive
curious letters from aspiring dramatic authoi's,
put this, lately sent to a New York lessee, about
bikes the cake. It is quoted literally:—
Sir
I now write you these few lines to let you
kce'v that I have got a New Play or Drama
to Sell entitled The Undecaylng Star, which
consists of Six Books, and it will take six
nights to play it I Book is entitled the
Undecaylng Star.
2'nd Book is entitled the Undecaying Star
of the Republic.
3’d Book is entitled The Lurid Meteors.
And the 4’th Book is The Undecaylng Star
continued.
And the 5’th Book is The Undecaying Star
ot the Milleneum.
Arid the 6th Book is the Undecaying Star
of Temperance And Divinity.
Which Makes a groat largo BOOK when
combined and one of the best Dramas ever
Bwyed and it is All entirely now And just
the thing for the times and any Theatre in
the World
.Now Please tell me How much you will
give Me for the Copyright of the Drama
And oblige
The
Author
Franklin Pierce
Dennis”
■ ", very novel entertainment is now being or-
ganised in America, by the notable characters Dr.
Carver and Bulfalo Bill. It is to represent Western
life on the prairies in a realistic manner, and will
Consist of about 200 various animals, and the same
number ot men, including' Indians, vaqueros, cow-
boys and scouts, also Captain Bogardus, the shot.
A procession will show emigrant waggons crossing
the plains, attacks by Indians, mimic slaughter and
torture, then cowboys on the trail. There will be
exhibitions of lassoing, rough-riding, war-dances,
hunting buffaloes, and shooting by the great
champions; in fact, a living panorama of frontier
fife. The Indians are to be commanded by Frank
North, who is a “ white chief ” among them, and is
ranked as the greatest scout living. It starts this
month — Sarah Bernhardt says in her book that
she was not very pretty as a girl, but “ resembled
a little the Mater Dolorosa of Velasquez,” and she
moreover had “the thin arms of the Fornarina,
the Indolence of Titian’s Venus, the dreamy look
of Raphael’s St. Cecilia.” If that is the case she
has changed a great deal since then. At present
she resembles a hatchet-faced doll with the saw-
dust out Henry Ketten died at an hotel in
Paris, but the funeral started from the house of
his father and mother. Rumours are circulated
about his having committed suicide, under the
pressure of debt and trouble. They do not appear
to be confirmed.. .A waxworks exhibition in Lon-
don shows 110 figures in one gronp, representing a
massacre of Jews in Russia Barnum was prose-
cuted by the American Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty, because he exhibited two children rid-
ing on bicycles; but the court decided that the
exercise was beneficial to the children rather than
otherwise. Upon which, the great showman
offered the president of the society £50 a week if
he would consent to be exhibited as a specimen
idiot.
It is not often that the ranks of the pro-
fession are recruited by persons from the aristo-
cratic spheres, Mrs. Langtry is the most noted
instance of a lady. Mr. Gilbert Farquhar is the
latest case of a gentleman. He is an aristocrat,
who has an ample private income, and the entree
to Beigravlan drawing-rooms. But, he has not,
like Mrs. Langtry, arrayed these facts in his
favour on the stage, he has rather discarded them
and invited open criticism ou the merits of his
public performances alone. Sir Mlnto Farquhar,
M.P., destined his son for the church, but though
that vocation affords opportunity for a first class
display of acting, coupled with scenic effect, it
was not the stage young Gilbert cared for. He
was next sent into the City, but he couldn’t money-
frub. Then he travelled among the Hottentots in
outh Africa, contributed articles to newspapers,
and finally, after studying a while under Dion
Bouoloault, appeared last January as a professional
actor at the London Gaiety, before one of its
largest and most fashionable audiences. There
was nervousness; for the perfect assurance of a
polished actor doesn’t always eorao at once—when
it does, it’s generally a thunderlngly bad sign. Mr.
Farquhar Inis appeared continually since, and the
verdict is, that though he has not dazzled the
world with brilliant genius, he is a good actor even
among “ pros,” and a coming man.
Mr. T. Setrlght, atElvy’s, 329 George-street,
not Mr. G. L. Goodman, (as stated in an advertise-
ment which has already appeared) acts in Sydney
for Brisbane Theatre Royal.
MASKS AND FACES.
The stage was bright, the plaudits rang,
The play was nearly o’er;
With happy voice the player sang
“ Love is for evermore!”
“ She never sang nor looked so fair;”
The people whispered low;
But the real tale of the woman there
Nobody cared to know.
The circus crowd was gay and glad,
And loud the whirling ring;
Huzza! the rider rode like mad.
As jocund as a king.
Huzza! to watch him laugh and leap,
They cheered him high and low;
But the tear's that lay in his bosom deep
Nobody cared to'know.
And we all are players for our day,
On the stage of life we fare,
Each with his little part to play,
Each with his mask to wear.
And what is real ’tls vain to ask,
And what is only show;
For what lies hidden behind the mask
Only ourselves may know.
INTAGLIO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Before Dawn.
The sea to-night is glassy dark.
The spectral surf chants its wild rune;
A lamp from yonder lonely barque
Burns stilly, like a little moon.
And in the gloom its long rays star
Each sombre wave with silver flame;
So starry-dlademed they are
While one in sand might write a name.
So Life: so Death. The lamp that keeps
Its vigil on the lowly barque
Is Life; the Soul the wave that sweeps
From deep to deep, from dark to dark.
Yet, as these dusky waters roll
To sunrise on a sunless way,
So onward fares the faithful soul
Through darkness to Eternal day.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
June 2,1882.


Has the girl who owns real golden tresses
34 carrot hair ?
Douglas Jerrold said: “The ugliest of
trades have their moments of pleasure. Now. n
I were a gravedigger, or even a hangman, tnere
are some people I could work for with a very great
deal of enjoyment.”
J oe Cook declares that frequently while be
was sipping his cup of milk in an English restaur-
ant, grand looking, well-dressed Englishmen worn
“call for their half pint of whisky and toss it on.
in a second,” and he furthermore declares eve
the newsboys sell grog in England. We
consider Ananias was a victim of circumstance .
and a very much over-rated, ill-used man.
Mr. DeCoubcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New °0“
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining D■ .
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General ua
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sym 1 h”
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties adU
upon. Every class of Land and Mining J*u»n
in the Public Departments undertaken. Iitic°
speciality.—/ uvt.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
Archibald Forbes writes:—“The lowest
/ merman bridles his tongue when women are
v ithin hearing, and gives practical effect to the
r ihorisrn ‘ maxima reverent Ut, dehetur puerl*.'
Though “ Pueris” mar be taken to include young
r'rls, yet, as it can’t be taken to include adults of
e’ther sex, Forbes must be sent down to the bottom
of the class.
One of the reasons why the late Honorable
W. Forster was not a brilliant success as N.S.W.
Agent-General in London was that he was perfectly
i idifferent as to his personal appearance, considera-
tions regarding which are paramount in the world’s
metropolis. The poor old man used to turn out of
Westbourne-terraoe in a battered hat, trousers
which when he skipped over mud didn’t cover the
tops of his bluchers, and a suit which wasn’t a suit
at all, in that It often consisted of tweed of differ-
ent patterns.
Sir J. G. Innes, when a District Court
Judge in Queensland, proved a source of much
tribulation to the criminal fraternity. On one
occasion he allotted a gentleman known as “The
Snob” the unprecedented sentence of ten years for
uttering a valueless cheque. “The Snob,” how-
even bore the reputation of being a notorious
thief, who had managed, by conducting his defence
with considerable ingenuity, to gain an acquittal
on other more serious charges. His abuse of the
Judge is even now spoken of in the city of sin,
sweat, and sorrow, and proceeded a considerable
length before the myrmidons of justice could drag
him from the court.
Mr. Upjohn, of Coburg, Victoria, the duly-
qualifled hangman to the Southern Government,
announces that he has started in the healing busi-
ness. Mr. Upjohn publishes a list of twelve persons
whom he has cured of various diseases, after they
had been “ given up ” by the faculty as “ gone
coons,”—and ho might easily give the names of a
great many whom, with the aid of his celebrated
rop mixture, he has released from all earthly pain
without their writing to the papers to deny it.
References kindly permitted to the late Mr. Ned
Kelly, Mr. Ah Chow, and other gentleman. Mr.
Milner Stephen will see the propriety of either
resigning his red flannel and giving up nis blowing
Or going into partnership with the hangman. It is
evident from the reports we get of the diminution
of Interest taken in Milner in Christchurch, and of
tbefalling off of the receipts, that ho is badly in
want of an additional and startling attraction.
Here it is to his hand.
To Judge Boucaut, of S.A., who, though
of honourable, is by no means of lofty, origin,
Slobelan instincts seem tenaciously to adhere. The
udge is often to bo seen riding about on a tri-
cycle, followed by an admiring crowd of small
boys, or sitting on the steps of the literary insti-
tute with a morning newspaper. Judge Way, the
Chief Justice, whose origin is even more lowly,
has only the patrician part of his nature very
flnely developed. Of the unwashed crowd he has
an Intense horror, although he Is occasionally to
be seen at the gatherings of Bible Christiana, to
one section of whom his father ministers as a
preacher. Judge Andrews is a recent addition to
the Bench, but is mostly noticeable for the “ ditto-
to-Mr.-Burke ” style he possesses. He always
agrees with his confreres, and scarcely ever gives
an independent judgment. Judge Windeyer used
to be accused of the same sort of thing in Sydney,
but now we come to think of it, we are of opinion
that he was unjustly maligned.
Sir George Bowyer, Bart., Home Rule M.P.
for Wexford County, Knight of Malta, ecclesiastical
jurist, died last week. Ho seceded from the Angli-
can to the Roman Church in ’50. He officially de-
fended the “ Papal Aggression,” and in argument
proved more than a match for Johnny Russell and
nis “ Durham ” letter. When, however, he and
Pope Hennessy undertook to defend “Bomba,”
they found Gladstone one too many for them.
“I confess,” said the “grand old man,” “I feel
much admiration for the courage of the honorable
member for Dundalk (as Bowyer then was) and the
honorable member for King’s County (Hennessy),
for I think I would rather live in a stout and well-
built casement, listening to the whizzing of bullets
and the bursting of shells, as did that miserable
monarch, Francis II., at the siege of Gaeta, than
come before a free assembly to vindicate such a
cause as that which the honorable gentlemen have
espoused.” 'Twas paradoxical that the most earnest
modern champion of the Right Divine of Kings to
govern wrong should have subsequently sat as a
Home Ruler.
Marshal Bazaine, the scapegoat of the
French nation after the war with Germany, and
who has been lost to the world ever since, has
“ revisited the glimpses of the moon” once more.
He has done that which his enemies most desired
him to do. He has written a book. It is an
attempted defence of his treachery. We translate
from the Rappee this terrible passage “A
curious situation is that of this man, who, dead to
his country, his family, and even to the foreigner,
moves about in Spain, the phantom of a Marshal of
France, and whom nothing can restore to the land
of the living. He walks, he speaks, he appears at
Court, he is seen at the Puerta del Sol, and in the
official balls; ho has servants, and a publisher, and
yet he is dead. He is more dead than if he had
been killed. Queen Isabella has accepted the
dedication of his book, but that has not brought
him to life again. For the people of Madrid, as
well as for Parisians, for France, and for the rest
of the world, he represents only a refractory
corpse. The sentence which punished the soldier
suppressed the man. He cannot belong to any
nation, or become the citizen of any country. The
trial at Trianon-has made of him a being apart,
sole in the world, condemned to hear to the end of
time the maledictions of an entire people. His
book is like a book from beyond the tomb.”
A little more concerning the late Jacky
Dow, of blessed memory. Jacky had not the
squatter's usual antipathy for tramps, but when-
ever a " Murrumbidgee whaler” called along and
demanded rations, Jacky always made the supply
of the same contingent on the execution by the
recipient of an amount of work which he con-
sidered fairly commensurate with the value of the
pi ovisions. One day a “ whaler ” came along and
applied for “tucker,” and Jacky was puzzled to
know what work to put him at, as things were
slack on the station. After scratching his head a
minute, ho said: “ I never serve rations to tramps,
unless they do some work, and in your case I have
no work to give. However, I can’t let you pass my
station hungry. Do you see that gate down there ? ’
“Yes,” replied the whaler. “Well, then, you go
along and swing It on its hinges backwards and
forwards for two hours.” “All right,” said the
man, and off he marched. About an hour after-
wards another sundowner appeared on the scene,
and made the usual application for “tucker.
True to his principles, Jacky determined on
making him earn it, so he said: “ I have no work;
but do you see that fellow down there swinging on
t ho gate ? ” The tramp assented. “ Well, I reckon
he’s pretty tired by this time. You go and swing
him till sundown, and then both of ye can come to
me for mutton and flour.” The whaler went and
swung the other fellow, and both had a feed in the
gloaming.
Karl Marx, who died last March, was born
at Treves in 1818. He early wrote articles in the
Riieinxscue Zextuno, of which he subsequently
became editor. His boldness growing inconvenient
to the Government, he went to Paris, where he
published papers on the Hegelian philosophy of
rights in a periodical edited by himself and Arnold
Ruge. The French authorities forced him to go
to Brussels, where he drew up, in conjunction
with Fred. Engels, in 1841, the famous “ Manifesto
of the Communistic Party.” This caused his ex-
pulsion from Belgium. In Cologne he founded a
Neck Rxxkinische Zextuno, devoted to Commu-
nistic theories, in the interests of the working
classes. After the coup d'etat of December, 1851,
he wrote a satire, “ Der 18 Bruraaire Louis Bona-
parte's,” printed at Boston, U.S.,A., in ia52, in
which he foretold with marvellous prescience the
results of Louis Napoleon’s rule. In 1859 he wrote
Zur Krltik der Politischen Oekonomie,” which
ho alterwards expanded into the book that
specially sets forth his doctrines, “Das Kapltal.”
Iksi-os those, Marx wrote numerous articles and
papers in the New York Tribune and elsewhere.
Ilfs literary aid to the International Association,
of which he was chief support from 1864 till 1873,
was also not small. His facility in languages was
frreat— he wrote in French, German, and Eng-
ish with ease. He soon learned to read any tongue
by a method of his own, and he thus acquired
Russian in a few months only two or three years
ago.
As all this about James Tyson, the mil-
lionaire, is on the authority of Peter Campbell,
the bush missionary, it’s bound to be true:—
“ While travelling, Mr. Tyson prefers camping out
in company with his quart pot and pony, to occu-
pying the best bedroom in the most hospitable of
squatter’s mansions. Invited (per his man) to take
up his quarters at a station, he respectfully de-
clined, adding, ‘ Tell the lady all I want is a pair of
hobbles.’ The lady replied, ‘ Tell Mr. Tyson there
are two pairs of hobbles lent—one pair for his
horse, and the other pair for his own use!’ On
another occasion, Tyson mot Peter Campbell at
the Hon. Sir J. P. Bell’s out station (on Jimbour,
Q.), occupied by an overseer, who showed his
two distinguished guests a small room furnished
with a rlcketty bush sofa and a still more rieketty
table. The overseer said. ‘ Mi-. Tyson, please take
the sofa, and Mr. Campbell will occupy the table.’
Mr. Tyson smiled grimly, closed the door, and thus
addressed the missionary: ‘ The sofa will make the
best bed ; I am used to roughing it, and rather like
it: please take the sofa, and I will sleep on the
table.’ The evangelist at first declined, and added,
‘ You occupy a higher position in society than I do;
by all means, therefore, take the sofa, as it is cer-
tainly better than the table.’ Mr. Tyson courte-
ously declined, and carried the point. The squatter
and preacher slept but little that night, the con-
versation being confined almost exclusively to the
important bush topics of quart pots, hobbles, and
adventures with horses. They said good-bye to
each other in the most jovial manner in the morn-
ing, and it issaid have never again met each other.”
Very probably not. The fault is said to bo with
Jemmy Tyson, who, however, averred, when last
in town, that he did hope to meet Peter once more
—in heaven.
Mr. T. Rome, of Hill House, Hambleton,
Hants, at a meeting ot sportsmen and others
interested in the Cotswold Harriers, offered to buy
a pack of harriers and keep them in place of those
recently hunted by Sir Francis Ford. This is from
Truth, wherein is added: “Mr. Rome, who was
educated at Cheltenham College, has spent maw
years in Australia.” We should say so. Lucky
Tom Rome, and worthy of all good fortune A
gentleman by birth, education, and temperameni.
The first time we met Tom Rome was on Taabinga
Station, in the Burnett. C. R. Haly was the then
owner-a fine old English gentleman, too, but not
so lucky in th® long run. Tom Rome was paring
the toe's of foot-rotted ewes when we fell upon
him. Taabinga was a wet run. All these
Tipper Burnett 'runs were bad for foot-rotting.
Poof! what a whiff one got dressing the inva-
lids! Tom Rome, Jlike other colonial e.vperiencers
of grit, turned his hand to anything that needed
doing, and made it a point of honour (vohlcsse
oblige) to do more and bettor —whatever it was—
than a mere hired man. And so he learned his
business thoroughly. We don’t know how he
weathered through the bad times from 1866 on-
ward. We were too busy ourselves keeping our
own craft from foundering to trouble much about
others. But when a revival commenced, about
1870, we heard of Tom Rome again. He had “ come
into” a few thousands—two or three, only—and
had bought a big station, on credit mostly. The
yarn was that when he got up to the place he had
only £30 to his credit in any bank. But pastoral
properties had just commenced to boom. Rome's
purchase on credit doubled its value in a year,
then trebled, then—goodness knows what. Good
season after good season. Fresh ventures. Mar-
riage to handsome Miss Thorn. More good seasons.
Member of Assembly. Residence at Judge Cockle’s
mansion—the Chief Justice away in England. Sold
ont a station or two. Then off home. And now
Harriers. Lucky Tom!
Here’s the whole story of the trouble
about the vacant captaincy in the Permanent
Artillery, as near as we can get to it. When the
vacancy occurred, it was ordered that the lieu-
tenants should submit to an examination, as a
test of competency. Accordingly six competed.
Of these, four passed in the following order:—
Baynes 1, Airey 3, Bouvorie 3, Savage 4. Two
were plucked, and these were LePatourel. A.D.C,
and Nathan, A.D.C. The Commanding Officer, on
this, recommended Baynes for the vacancy. But
he was met with an objection. He was asked
whether he was awayah that, aw, Mr. Baynes had,
aw, not the social standing which would be requi-
site in a man selected to hold a captain's position
in, aw, Her Majesty’s service. Somebody expressed
himself as surprised at the Commandant. “Why,
Mr. Baynes’ father was a publican!” Now this
was so far true that Lieutenant Baynes is son of
Colonel Baynes, who once kept a pub., and had
been a sergeant in H.M. Forces. So the com-
mandant passed on to the next man—Airey. And '
what of him? Ex-Imperial service man. “Aw,
mere captain in a marching regiment. Deah !
deah !” “But isn’t he junior to—aw—Arthur?”
Well, yes, he is so far junior that, although both
men's’appointments appear in the same Gazette,
Le Patourel’s name is printed above Airey’s. “ Aw,
well, Le Patourel Is the senior officer. Let me heah
no moah 1” And Colonel Roberts, who is a terror to
the enemy, but just a mild sort of man when
properly bossed, went off and recommended
Arthur T,e Patourel (who had failed to pass
the examination) tor the captaincy. But the
thing 1 had to be handled by Sir Jack Robert-
son. who, to do him justice, doesn’t care a
tinker's curse for anybody, and Jacky, as
soon as he got the hang of the Garbutty sort of job
it was, said he’d be eternally North-Shore-bridged
before he gave his consent. Thus the thing stuck.
No commission could be got for the men who had
passed, and the Minister would not recommend
either of the men who couldn’t pass, and who hap-
pened singularly enough to be both in attendance
at Government House. And when Stuart came
into office, and as soon as the condition of his back-
bone was ascertained, it was suggested that the
first examination should go for nothing, and
another be held. And now there are people who
say that there are two fine birds undergoing cram-
ming in the Government House fowl-yard, which
are not intended for the table. This should be a
lesson to every Legislative Assembly to think what
consequences may ensue if a salary for an extra
aide-de-camp be refused, as was done four years
ago, leaving a superfluous lieutenant to be pro-
vided for somehow.
Sir William Robinson, the new Governor
of S.A., appears like a resurrected corpse, or as if
everlasting biliousness were his portion. He
rather fancies himself a musician — The death of
Major Withers, a fine old soldier, formerly ot the
65th, is reported from Auckland. The Major was
1’or years Quartermaster of the 65th. Fellows who
served either in or along with the “ Yorkies ” will
murmur a requiescat for honest Ned Withers. The
date of his Major’s commission in the Volunteers
was May 1869—“Archie” Graham, son of the
Hon. W. Robertson, of Queensland, has been killed
by a fall from his horse on Bowen Downs station
Thady O’Kano has escaped another libel action
(at the instance of John Robb, railway contractor)
by apologising A son of the late Mr. Thomas
Jenkins, brewer, of Adelong, having dreamt one
night, while he was 100 miles away from home, of
his father’s death-bed scene, its vividness on
waking caused him to make a note of it. Subse-
quently he learnt by telegram that his father
expired that very night. A few days after arriving
home he was surprised at the similitude of the
(Mi.tint circumstances as related to him by his
i .aln-r to those seen in his dream—Rev. Richard
V. Danne, whose newly-acquired American
medical degree the Victorian Board has refused
to recognise, was for some years Wesleyan
minister at Adeleng, where he was popular—
“The Vagabond’s ” N.Z. lecturing tour has, accord-
ing to the local papers, been far from successful.
... It is rumoured in Adelaide that our premier
jockey. Hales, will leave there in double harness.
The fair one is a daughter of an Adelaide horsey
andracingman Te Whiti, the Maori prophet, is
now in an excellent Irame of mind, and, in a large
degree, Europeanised. He insists on strict cleanli-
ness, proper cookery, butter for his bread, and
chairs for his rest. He will not squat on the
ground, and he won’t tolerate Maori cookery. He
gave a recent visitor (who expected a feast of
“ high ” shark) a thorough English breakfast, with
tea and coffee, eggs and milk, etc., served in irre-
proachable style, and on a tablecloth of scrupulous
cleanliness. His present plan is to lay off Parihaka
into a native town as nearly after the design of
Nelson as possible. Ho is going in largely for
planting English trees, and for improved culti-
vation and sanitary reform generally. This is a
marvellous change in less than two years ...Hon.
James Cowlishaw is proceeding for libel not
against Mr. J. Edgar Byrne, the registered pro-
prietor of Queensland Figaro, but against
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, the publishers of the
paper. Having road the alleged libel, we are of
opinion that Mr. Cowlishaw has a very thin and
flimsy case, indeed — Bishop Selwyn, formerly of
Auckland (N.Z.), was, in his younger days, a re-
doubtable pugilist and mighty man of muscle. A
heavy-weight Maori who, had long lived amongst
the N.Z. whalers, and had learnt from them how to
use his fists, once insulted the Bishop, and when
told to “clear” retorted by trying to spit in the
prelate’s face. Bishop Selwyn took off his coat
and “knocked out” the darkey in two rounds.
Bishop Short, of Adelaide, is also a don with the
gloves. .Lucien Henry has been appointed Princi-
pal of the Plastic Arts classes of the Technical
College, Sydney School of Arts Mina Jury,
witness in the Tichborne ease, has recently been
“doing” a variety of English noblemen and
gentlemen, by Ingenious lies. It will be under-
stood how very clever Jshe must be when we state
the fact that she has done “ Edinburgh ” to the
tune of £15. She pretended that she was known
to His Royal Highness at Adelaide, in the year
1867, as Miss Gordon, daughter of the late Colonel
Gordon and niece of Sir Dominic Daly, Governor
of South Australia. She also got £10 from Mrs.
Gladstone. Mina is the widow of an Adelaide gaol
official George Ernest Morrison, who walked
across the Australian continent, is to go to New
Guinea in the interest of the Age Dr. H. L.
Cortis, the ex-amateur champion bicyclist of the
world, who is now at Coonamble, was the other
day thrown from his horse, and sustained a frac-
ture of the arm. He now says he “ wished he had
stuck to bicycles.”... .One Wigg, a young Adelaide
journalist, has just dropped in for a legacy of £7000
m cash, and considerable landed property in Wor-
cester. He has already abjured the saveloy.
Derwent Coleridge, the poet’s youngest son
died in March, aged 83. He was in holy orders For
23 years he was Principal of St. Mark’s Collcire
Chelsea. Ho edited the works of his father and of
his elder bx - other (Hartley) — Pious Kaiser Billy’s
bill of fare for breakfast:—One quart of soud
highly seasoned with cayenne, ginger, mace and
garlic; beef soaked In brandy; “polenta,” a’deli
cacy made up of half Indian corn and half Parmesan
cheese, to which is added juice of garlic—the whole
being baked in butter till it is topped by a rind half
an inch thick; then a plateful of eel-pie, “so hot
that it would lead a casual observer to imagine it
was baked in hell.” And a quart of lager, just to
cool the mucuous membranes John Morlev
M.P. for Newcastle, editor of the Pali. Mall, and
erstwhile editor of the Fortnightly, in his life of
Voltaire spells God god, and thereby lost his elec-
tion for Westminster. This frightened him, so
when at last elected for Newcastle he took’ the
oath without demur, and now applauds the sen-
tence on Foote. The Secular Review retorts on
him by spelling his name john morley G. W
Foote, the imprisoned editor of the Freethinker'
is but 33 years of age. When only 20 he was secre-
tary of the London Republican Club, and was also
a contributor to the National Reformer and the
Secular Chronicle. At 24 he commenced lectur-
ing, and at 26, in conjunction with G. J. Holyoake
started the Secularist, which was afterwards
amalgamated with the Secular Review. Mr
Foote has also started other publications which"
until the Freethinker, all had short lives The
letters of Carlyle’s wife reveal a pitiful domestic
tale, showing up the Chelsea sage as a selfish
egotist. Yet had Mrs. C. been an Xantlppe the
odds are there would have been m modern
Socrates. She was G risel instead, hence the sage!
— Sir Capol Fitzgerald, Bart., whose name was so
prominently before the public a season or two ago,
is a member of a bill-broking firm in Cannon-
street; Sir George Augustus Leeds, Bart., is a
clerk in the Bank ot England, and may be seen
sitting on his stool any day in the week; and Sir-
William Johnstone, Bart., of Caskibcn, with a
pedigree going back to the days of the great
Bruce, is in the employment, as clerk, of the
Oriental Banking Corporation... Oliver Wendell
Holmes, jun., the inheritor of an illustrious name,
has been appointed to a seat on the supreme
judicial bench ot Massachusetts at the early age of
41. He is the editor of what is now the
standard edition of “ Kent’s Commentaries.”
The Chinese Ambassador at Washington is a
married man. His wife is nineteen and very pretty.
She lives entirely in her own apartments, and sees
no one but her maid and her husband. Chin Chi
Young (the Ambassador) blandly ignores pointed
hints as to his friends visiting Mrs. Chin Chi, and
society gets only himself either at his own house,
or for its teas, dinners, and receptions. He is
familiarly addressed as “Mr. Chin.” When you
say “ How are you, Mr. Chin?” he replies, “Oh, I
am all A No. 1.” Dr. Benson is the first member
of Trinity College, Cambridge, who ever attained to
the See of Canterbury, which Is odd, seeing that
Trinity is the most numerous and Important
college in the University of Cambridge Amongst
the litterateurs who wrote in response to an en-
quiry as to what stimulants they used was Eisak
Pitman. His answer was to the effect that, after
drinking wine a few years for dyspepsia without
relief, “ Ei gave up both the wein and the use of
fiesh, ‘ the brandi ov diet ’ ” and got well. He now
lives in the “konvikshon that they (stimulmts,
brandi, tebako, and snuff) ekserseiz a dedliinfluens
on the huimanrase.”
Annie Baker.
This is almost too much in the regular
order of things to notice. Annie Baker could not
have been properly trained: she wouldn’t stay and
“ do her duty in that state of life unto which it
had pleased God to call her.” That is, in the
language of common uncultured folk, her long
hours of stitching, coupled with slow starvation,
had broken hex heart—had driven her mad. Bui
here is her letter: “ 0, mother, mother! I couldn't
go on. I haven’t a protector in all the world; and
you are old and worn, and I can’t help you. I’ll
come to you from the next world, mother; I’ll
always be near you. It doesn’t matter, mother,
does it ? I sha’n’t eat anything, and you’ll know
I’m there. I’m not afraid. I’ve done nothing
wrong—mind that, mother. But let him kiss me;
and tell him ” Here, the girl’s brain cracked.
The fact, shame be it, remains, that there are
scores of thousands of underpaid girls in the large
Christian towns of England—towns of portly arch-
bishops and gilded drawingrooms—who are daily
on the brink of a similar fate —
A common, common tale I weave,
Of weary years of hopeless strife,
Whose leisure is a time to grieve,
And competitions barely leave
Enough to nourish life.
Low down! low down! where streets are swept
With eager looks from hungry eyes,
A place which Christ had, seeing, wept,
Till to each heart His peace had crept,
And rent had banished sighs.
Not grand, heroic, or sublime,
This subject of my halting verse;
But pitiful, and old as Time,
And worthy of a manlier rhyme,
This tale 1 would rehearse.
So common—yet not commonplace;
The wronged young heart ablaze with light,
That rushes lustrous to the face,
Redeemed from taint of past disgrace,
Remembered not to-night.
A pistol shot:—The deed is done;
Her hand the instrument. But why
Should one so fair, with terror shun
Her place beneath the shining sun
That smiles on you and I ?
The poor, pale face, where late had blushed
The innocence not long since lied,
And eyes where life so late had flushed,
And lips, that mother’s lips had brushed,
All lost, and crushed, and dead!
It should not be! Young life was meant
To climb among the peaks of Hope,
To scale the cliffs of non-content,
And reach up to’ards the battlement
Where Fancy’s heroes cope.
That such a puny voice as mine
Should have to hymn thy tale aloft!
Should simper weak with woe of thine,
And labour through each halting line,
And break, and falter oft!
Not song from me; but towering note
’Mid snaking organ’s tremblant chord
Should burst from out some mighty throat,
From heart to heart resounding, float,
And pierce like whetted sword.
W. APSEY.
Cobargo.
A FASHION NOTE.
“Isay, Hoh. ain’t his trousers tight, jist.’’
“ Gao on. Thera hain’t trousers; that chap’s a native, an’ has been an’ tatooed hisselt.


Balls, Banquets, Public or Private Parties.
Ballrooms tastefully decorated with Flag or Floral
Decorations on reasonable temrs—Salk and Dare,
(K% Hunter-street.*
A compositor on the Loudon Daily
Chronicle thus sends a dead man to gaol:—“Mr.
James Day, the manager and principal proprietor
of Day’s Concert Hail, died suddenly this evening
in Holder’s Concert Hall. The performance was
brought to an abrupt conclusion. He was sen-
tenced to six months imprisonment.”
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold’s”
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
£2000.—The “Australasia Sweep’’ on the
“Melbourne Cup” is for £2000, at 5s. per share—
an even four, 20s. First horse takes £1000; second,
£500; third, £250; starters, £150; non-starters, £100.
Total, £2000; and £1000 distributed in Prizes. Re-
sults of drawing will bo advertised in Syndey ami
Melbourne papers, and result circulars mailed to
all subscribers throughout the colonies. Those
making application are requested to enclose notes
in registered letter; or if crossed cheques, payable
to “ Australasia ” or Bearer (with exchange stamps
added), and 4d. stamps for reply and result. Appli-
cation, as usual, by registered letter. Ton per cent,
deducted for all expenses. Address—“ Austral-
asia,” care of Mr. H. J. Franklin, publisher, 40
Hunter-street. Sydney.—Advt.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfanlerrs Hotel,
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every denial defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Oe. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two Arms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name-Adolphc,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfablcrt's
Hotel.—Advt.
TJUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON to CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1801,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OL" 1 ' .ciC
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
rWe shall be glad to home this index posted up bj/
1 secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING.
WrtimiH June 30, 31.
WerR worth J.C.'. June 36, 31.
Lower Clarence T.C ■ • ■ J u ]“ e
miSe District J. C. (Q.) Jnly 4, 5
nara O n 0 c^Rive Q r J -C. Annual!.'!!.!!. July 11. I*!
Rockhampton J.C. (Q.) Jnlfft 3.
Deniliquin J.C. tiilVW ia
Charters Towers J.U (Q.) -ju > 17,18.
c rtl1 4Vi Wnrresro J.C July lo, ih.
Great Western Towns .1 .C. (Q.) July 18,19.
V R C. Steeplechase Meeting July 31.
Victoria R.O. Winter
Goodiwindi Races July 35, 36.
Tattersall’s Club ... August 11.
Hawkeebury R.C •••••• August 33.35-
at r flnrimr September 1, 4, 6, 8.
Victoria Amateur T.C •• — October !•*, 30.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3, 6 8,10.
Parramatta J.C. November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
AQUATICS
M.R.C. Scratch Fours •••••■ June 38.
Glebe Rowing Club Amateur Regatta... . July 14.
New South Wales Association Regatta .. October 6.
COURSING
Victoria Club June 30, July 18, August 33.
South Australian Club June 12, July 18.
Ballarat Club June 38, July 36, August 38.
NSW. Club June 28, July 31.
Australian Club June 14, July 27, August 39.
ATHLETICS.
Edwards v. O’Leary, 6 days’ walk July 9.
BICYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Sports August 4.
FOOTBALL.
South Melbourne v. Sydney Clubs, As-
sooiation Ground July 7, 10,13.
South Melbourne v. New South Wales,
Association Ground July 14.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Miller is to wrestle with Blackburn, of
Eaglehawk, on the 33rd instant.
In England, Pordham won no less than 10
races during the “ Craven week.”
It is proposed by the N.Z. Stud Co. to send
a shipment of stock to Sydney in the Spring.
Sir Modred, who recently arrived in Syd-
ney, won £3435 in added money during his N.Z.
turf career. He started in 35 races, of which he
won 14.
The totalisator played havoc with the
bookmakers at the A. R. C. meetin-, the dividends
paid being in most instances better than the odds
laid by the books.
Atthe Dunedin (N.Z.) football dinner it was
stated that if the Northern players declined to co-
operate Otago and Canterbury would themselves
send a team to Sydney.
At a recent meeting of the New South
Wales Coursing Club, at Tattersall’s Rooms, it was
decided that, owing to the scarcity of game at
Woodstock, the June meeting of the club lapse.
At a series of wrestling bouts in the Cum-
berland style, for the Wollongong Champion Belt,
a kanaka named Jamie wrestled Tike a white man,
and threw Robertson, one of the best lutteurs on
the ground, best two out of three.
At the first annual meeting of the Brisbane
Cpion Athletic Club, on Saturday last, the Hundred
Yards Amateur Championship was won by H.
Pritchard in 10>4sec. The 150 yards handicap
fell to Scott, from scratch, in 15sec.
The Melbourne Cup has drawn no less than
150 subscribers, which is far in excess of any pre-
vious entry for a handicap race in the colonies.
Of the 150 some 70 are Victorian, 60 N.S.W., 15
South Australian, and two or three N.Z. and Tas-
manian.
Only five horses started for the N.Z. Grand
National Steeplechase this year. After a good con-
test, the winner turned up in an outsider named
Kosciusko, who beat the favourite, Canard, by
three lengths, the Tasmanian-bred Quaraby being
a similar distance behind Canard.
At Dunedin J.C. Birthday races, the big
event was carried off by Taiaroa—by Tubal Cain,
out of Ace of Hearts. The two-year-old Captain
Webster, another Australian, made his d€bU and
won the Maiden Plate; while Adamant got home
first in the Tradesmen's Handicap.
The centreboard half-decked yacht recently
built by Donnelly and Sullivan to the order of Mr.
Elliott,' has changed hands, Mr. Thomas Marshall
being the purchaser. The Asteroid has not turned
out trumps as regards speed, which no doubt
accounts for Mr. Elliott parting with her.
John Aplitt and Thomas M. Malone race at
the Sir Joseph Banks Hotel on Saturday, 14th July.
Conditions—£100 a side, 175 yards. The officials in
connection with the race will be appointed on the
ground. Malone is a new arrival from home, and
m tackling Aplitt has flown at very big game in-
deed.
In the entry for the Melbourne Cup there
are two Prodigals and two Welcome Jacks. These
names should at once be altered, to prevent mis-
understanding. So far as the Jacks are concerned,
there can be no doubt. Messrs. Robertson and
Wagner are entitled to retain the name for their
horse.
A very interesting contest eventuates at
Bourke on 36tb instant, when John Applitt, of
Parkes, and F. Robertson, of Jandra station, run
150 yards for £300 a side. Mr. Robertson, who has
not'long left the Scotch College, Melbourne, has
thus evidently no scruples concerning his status
as an amateur.
Edwards, the pedestrian, states he is
willing to give Raynor, who has lately been
inundating the Melbourne papers with letters, a
six-days’ walk for £350, to come off within eight
weeks after his O’Leary match, and he offers at
once to put up £50. Raynor must now either
make a match or “shut up.
The following entries have been received
for the Parramatta 48-hours’ walking match, to
come off on 21st June:—J. Ormes, G. Lever, T.
Singleton, G. Evans, B. Durass, .1. Ephraim, T.
Balaam. No fixed prize has been decided upon,
but the winner will receive 50 per cent., the second
man ‘35, and the third 15 per cent, of the takings.
There was some goed shooting done at the
South Australian Rifle Association small-bore
match on June 5. Out of 30 shots at 800 and 900
yards, R. Robertson, of Bookmark, River Murray,
made 38 bull’s eyes and two inners. At 1000 yards,
however, he fell off. and the first prize was won by
A. M'Farlane, of Wellington, with a score of 308.
At the recent meeting of the A.J.C., the
disqualification of Slow Tom for 13 months by the
Bourke J.C. was endorsed, and it was decided to
call upon Mr. Coffey to appear before the A.J.C.
committee on the 35th instant to answer a charge
having reference to the Hubbub-Hopeless steeple-
chase case. They seem determined to give some-
body hot coffee over this affair.
All arrangements have now been made for
the intercolonial pigeon-shooting match to come
off on JqTv 16 (Waterloo Gup wookk at Brighton
Park, Melbourne, ten men a side, fur £1000, any
member wishing: to withdraw to forfeit £100.
Messrs. F. Gannon and Owen Friend did some tall
shooting 1 for the Gun Club Cup on Juno 3. The
former dropped 20 out of 33, and the latter got a
leg-in for the Cup with a score of 21 out of 23.
Another match has been made between W.
Noud and P. Donoghue for £100 a side, 150 yards,
to bo run at Boorook, on June 33rd; also a match
on the same day, at the same place, between
Arthur Noud and C. Donoghue, 150 yards, £50 a
side. The stakes in the Noud v. Donoghue race
were paid over to the former, but- Donoghue in-
tends testing the legality of the stakeholder's de-
cision in doing so in the next District Court.
Grand Prix de Paris, 4000 sovs. and 40 sov.
sweep,atLongchamps, June 3rd:—Due deCastrie’s
Frontin 1, Sir F. Johnstone’s St. Blaise 3, Comte F.
Lagrange’s Farfadet 3. At Ascot, on June 5th, the
Prince of Wales’ Stakes resulted thus: —Lord Fal-
mouth’s Galliard 1, Duke of Hamilton’s Ossian 3,
Lord Bradford’s Laocoon 3 ; and on June 7th, the
Ascot Gold Cup was appropriated by Mr. Lefevre’s
Tristan 1, Lord Falmouth's Dutch Oven 3, and Lord
Ellesmere’s Wallestein 3.
The football clubs are now in full swing.
Amongst other matches played on Saturday last,
the University beat the Balmain club by 16 points
to 7 points. Baylis kicked three goals for the
’Varsity, and Butler one for the Suburbans.
Redfern. which, to our thinking, is the coming
club, defeated Wallaroo by 6 points to 3 points;
and, at Burwood, the local team defeated the St.
Leonards by 13 points to nil. In the latter match,
.1. Woods, who kicked two goals, and C. Robbords,
played in splendid form.
Fred. Archer, the English jockey, was
brought before the stewards of the Jockey Club,
at the instigation of Prince Soltykoff, to answer a
charge that ho combined with S. Loates to block
Padlock in the Craven Plate. Hossiter, who rode
Padlock, assorted that he heard Archer (on Grand-
master) call out to Loates (on Ossian) to close in
and shut Padlock out, and that but for this foul
riding he (Rossiter) would ha ve won. G randmastcr
was first and Ossian second, Padlock being third.
Archer just escaped by the “skin of his tooth”
with a verdict of “not proven."
The secretary of the A.R.C., who is pro-
ceeding against Joe Thompson for £2000 damages
for defamation of character, is applying to the
court to compel Thompson to “ put up” an amount
as security for damages and costs before he leaves
the colony. But Joe has a decided aversion to put-
ting up anything since he put up his hands to Billy
Freeman. In about a quarter of a round Joe was
heard to murmur to a fellow Yid, “ I didn’t know
the Goyer could fight; take me away.” The gentle
William now sports an elaborate belt, with tin
facings, presented to him by his friends as a
memento of the occasion.
Miller has signified his willingness to meet
Sullivan, the American champion, for £1000, and
will allow Sullivan liberal expenses to come to
Australia. If the “ Professor” takes our advice he
will let well alone. But he need be under no
apprehension that the American will accept, as
considering he cleared between two and three
thousand pounds at his recent benefit at Boston, it
is not likely that the Professor’s offer of “liberal
expenses” will tempt him. There is one thing,
however, Miller may be assured of. Should they
meet it will be no three-hour business. One or the
other will crack in flve-and-twenty minutes.
At New Orleans, La., on March 18, Duncan
C. Ross, the champion athlete, and Thiebaud
Bauer, who, at one time was defeated by Professor
Miller, wrestled Grteco Roman, best two in three
falls, for the Graeco Roman wrestling champion-
ship. The match was decided in the St. Charles
Theatre, and attracted a tremendous crowd. Bauer
won the first fall after a very exciting struggle.
Ross cleverly threw Bauer in the second bout.
The deciding bout was won by Bauer, who was
declared the winner of the match. Apropos, the
first time Miller and Bauer met, the former was ill,
and, after an hour, found that if he couldn’t make
it a draw, ho was bound to lose. He worked for a
draw accordingly, and got one —after wrestling
nine hours and a half! Next time they met, Mr.
Bauer went under in one act.
Upon viewing the men composing the
Wallaroo and Redfern football teams, playing at
Moore Park, last Saturday, we were struck with the
magnificent physique of most of the players, and
could not help comparing them with the men who
represented Sydney in the last Intercolonial Eight-
oar Race. Brodie was the only rowing man .vc
noticed in the crowd. Would it not work well for
the Rowing Association to at once pick out ten or
twelve of these men, as fine athletes as ever donned
a guernsey, and ask them to row, even if they had
never had an oar in their hands before ? If they
refused, there would be no harm done; but if they
agreed, the same plan might be tried with other
clubs, and a crew eventually secured which would
do credit to any country in the world. Of course
we know perfectly well that a good footballer will
not necessarily make a good oarsman; but he need
not necessarily make a bad one. If. as is usual, the
picking be left to within a few months, or rather
weeks, of the race, we shall hat e the ordinary
crew of Liliputians.
Another athlete writes to ns about the
late competition at the Sydney Gymnasium, and
while agreeing with previous remarks, he draws
attention to several other points worth noticing.
First, the number of competitors was too small to
fairly represent the workers of the Gymnasium:
this being due, as another writer said, to the hope-
lessness of competing against Cansdell. An exhi-
bition should not be to show off three or four of
the best, but rather to illustrate the whole system
of gymnastics. There was a tedious waste of time,
for want of method in conducting the affair*
Contestants lounged about in desultory attitudes,
' and each stepped forward promiscuously either
in his turn or out of it. No leg exercises wore in-
troduced. Our correspondent, while acknow-
ledging Professor Miller’s fairness and honour,
considers that the onus of a final decision should
not have rested on only one judge: and the close-
ness of the competition was shown by the fact of
Mr. Miller having created a special prize for Haege
—which almost indicated a doubt as to his own
judgment. Ho deprecates the ide ■ of handicap-
ping the best men: so do wo. On the prevailing
pitiable ignorance respecting physical education,
and the importance of gymnastics from a national
point of view, we shall say something on another
occasion.
Miller has written the following to the
Melbourne Sportsman :—“ Sir, Allow me,
through the columns of the Sportsman to thank
Mr. George Adams, of Tattersall s Hotel. Sy 7 dney r ,
for the many kindnesses I received at his hands
during my stay in the sister colony. I also wish to
state that 1 in no way include in the scenes which
marked the close of my contest with Foley, the
real ‘sports’ of Sydney. By them, and by the
public generally, I was cordially received, and had
the matter been left solely in their hands, I am
confident the verdict would have been a very diffe-
rent one. As far as my game little adversary him-
self is concerned, I have seen all the best middle-
weight boxers in the world, and I can confidently
state that he has no superior of his own weight
and inches. —I am, etc.. Win. Miller.” if Miller
lays the flattering unction to his soul that he has
defeated the best middle-weight in the world, we
are under the impression that he has made a mis-
take. Ho has now been in the colonies several
years, and, wo doubt very much if he has over
laid eyes on Charles Mitchell, the English champion,
who weighs but 10st. 101b., and recently knocked
Mike Cleary, the second best man in America, to
a standstill' in three rounds. As a matter of fact,
it took the Professor just the same number of
hours to beat Foley. Besides Mitchell, there are a
lot of other little men, of whom “the Professor,”
probably knows little or nothing. For example,
Sheriff, alias “the Prussian.” and Denny Harring-
ton.
Thus the football writer iu a Dunedin
paper on a bit of English football: —“The Malbro’
Nomads, made up of old Marlbro’ College boys,
wore exceptionally strong this season. This Club,
on a tour through the North of England, thrashed
three of the strongest northern combinations with
apparent ease. In view of their present match
with Blackheath they sent out an active whip, and
in response some half-dozen Oxford Marlbronians
came to the Blackheath ground to do battle for
them. Seldom had Blackheath such a ‘ walk-
over.’ From start to finish the Nomads were out
of the hunt. I never saw such wonderful passing
in my life as that displayed by the Blackheathmen.
The Nomads collared man after man, but the said
men rarely held the ball—back it was thx-own in
the coolest manner, and with most unerring pre-
cision, into a friend’s hands, and so on. The men
backed each other up, not close behind, but some
yards away, either to the right or left. Few tight
scrimmages were formed, the forwards breaking
up, and making way by brilliant dribbling, leaving
the backs to do most of the carrying and running
business. In fact the whole game was faster, more
scientific, and decidedly more exciting than the
old game I saw played at Home seven years ago.
The players seldom spoke, consequently there was
no unseemly squabbling. Blackheath retired vic-
tors to the tune of three goals and a few sundries
to nil.” The foregoing will Interest those who
think of forming an Australian football team for
an English tour.
A correspondent of the San Francisco
Chronicle, writing from Yokohama, Japan, has
this to say concerning the style of wrestling in
vogue in that country: “There are at Tomioka
several small temples, but of only local interest.
One there is dedicated to the god of strength, and
is venerated by the mothers of weakly children or
children suffering from sickness. Oadzuma Sarna
is the strong god. On this feast-day celebrated
wrestlers congregate hero and contest the cham-
pionship. They are almost entirely without cloth-
ing, offering their bare bodies only to the grasp of
their opponents. It is a sight that would delight
the fancy wrestlers of the Western world to wit-
ness these men tug at each other for the mastery.
As they take their places preparatory to the trial
of strength and skill they place themselves in a
partially squatting position, their limbs wide apart,
and slap first one leg and then the other, at the
same time raising the foot and log, and then bring-
ing it (the foot) down again with an energy and
force that portends a determination 1 lat their
feet shall not be tripped from under them. They
then squat facing each other, and, upon a signal,
spring upon one another as they rise, catching such
hold as they are able. Such wrestling never came
under our observation elsewhere The stylo 1s
peculiar to Japan, and appears to be more a de-
monstration of power than skill, as they make
heavy work of it, sweating and steaming as men
only do when putting forth their utmost strength.
Some heavy falls are sustained, while it can hardly
be seen how the thing was accomplished.”
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
When next a N.S. W. Intercolonial Football
Team is picked, young- Jack Cox, of Mangoplah,
who is weighty, fast and furious, may not be over-
looked Mr. Justice Pring, of Queensland,
presided at the settling over the recent Bris-
bane race meeting. This was plucky of His
Honor, .who is not a bad judge—of a horse
Tattersall’s £1000 sweep for the Birthday meeting
was subscribed three times over. In one case, the
big money wont to a club of ten in one of the
public departments, in another to a struggling
bank clerk in a Western town; in the third to a
journeyman wheelwright on the South coast, who
has since started in business bn his own account
A match is arranged between John Dunn, of Umn-
bala, and Thomas Stevens, of Nangutta, for £40 a
side, on the 35th instant; distance, 300 yards
M. Cann and W. Harris walk 50 miles shortly at
Adelaide, for £50 a side At a handicap pigeon
match for a tat pig, near Windsor, “twelve bore
guns ” are advertised as de rigueur. In view of the
piguliar prize, it is clear that “twelve boar” is
meant Mr. Henry Smart, teller of the Bank of
N.8.W., died at Wiloannia of typhoid, of which
there are now many cases locally. He was a popu-
lar young fellow, and a leading member of the
Wilcannia Rowing Club—A sculling match is on
the tapis between the N.Z. champion (Hearn) and
G. Harrington, of Riverton, N.Z., for £100 a side
Harrington has some enthusiastic supporters—
The Wanganui (N.Z.) Jockey Club Steeplechase
resulted in a dead heat between Ruahlno and
Dhudeen, but in the run off the former won.
Seven started A. M’Leod and W. Jobson run 100
yards, at Tinonee, on 23rd inst., for £5 a side.... A
half hour go-as-you-plense takes place in Taree on
30th inst., between S. Billingham and J. Symcs for
£5 a side At Belfast, Vic., Irwin Beatty, hotel-
keeper, won one of Miller’s £1000 sweeps, which
luck “entirely dispersed his self-control.” Two
months after the death of his first wife he married
again, and, of course, he died suddenly —Somnus,
who ran so well in the V.R.C. Derby one year, goes
to the stud at Wanganui, N.Z—Mr. R. H. Val-
lance, the well-known N.Z. horse owner, is at
present doing a holiday tour through Australia—
At the Takapuna (Auckland, N.Z.) Birthday
meeting, the tnree-yoar-old colt Kalo, by Yatten-
don—Gipsy Girl, formerly the property of Mr. D.
S. Wallace, of Melbourne, won the two principal
events, Winter Oats and Birthday Handicap —At
Adelaide a half brother to Delusion, named
Illusion, was recently sold for 430 guineas; and
Helen, a yearling sister to the Assyrian, realized
700 guineas 59 nominations have been received
for the V.R.C. Champion Stakes. In the entry are
the well-known names of Commotion, Sting,
Navigator, Plunger, Segenhoe, Welcome Jack,
Archie, Warwick, Off Colour, Prodigal, and many
other good ones Mr. J. Crozier, jun., thoroughly
disgusted with the running of Uproarious in the
Adelaide Suburban Plate, has decided to leave the
turf. His horses were brought under the hammer
at Adelaide on the 39th May. First Water fell to
Mr. T. Barn Meld for 500 guineas, and the grand
little grey Savanaka was passed in at 300 guineas...
Miller, the athlete, used to be a booking-clerk at
the Church-street railway station, Richmond—
Mr. Hodgman, of Tasmania, the other day bicycled
100 miles in llh. 49min. His stoppages amounted to
45min., so that his actual riding time was llh. 4min.
Coonamble Races, Thursday last.—Marcs’ Pro-
duce Stakes : Here’s Luck, 1; Quail, 2 ; Exebla, 3.
Time, Imln 19sec. Members’ Purse : Chieftain, 1;
Shamrock, 3 ; Tramp, 3. Time, 3min 50isec. Maiden
Plato : Mylcs-na-Coppaleen, 1; Gertrude, 3 ; Hero’s
Luck, 3. Time, 3min 18 1-lOsec. Castlereagh Han-
dicap : Celeripese, 1: Tillimby, 2 ; Klngwood, 3
Murrurundl Races, 5th and 6tn June. —First Day—
Maiden Plato : Wilhelmina, 1. Publicans’ Purse :
Una, 1. Prince of Wales’ Stakes: Reform, 1.
Members’ Purse : Witch, 1. Second Day.—Flying
Handicap: Marmion, 1; Budellght, 2. Hack Race:
Bluegown, 1 ; Bando, 3. Murrurundi Handicap :
Sancho Panza, 1; Una, 2. Ladles’ Purse: Marmion,
1; Budelight. 3. Forced Handicap: Witch, 1;
Una, 2 G. Nesbitt and W. Moyse run 300 yards
for £25 aside at Wagga on 4th July.
* * *
The cutter Satanique, owned by M. Saloun,
a well-known yachtsman of Roscoff, France, was
recently boarded by two unknown individuals,
who hoisted anchor, made sail, and worked out to
sea, since which time nothing had, at last advices,
been hoard of them Charles O. Breed, at Lynn,
U.S., lifted a barrel weighing 320 lb., with his right
hand, 875 times in ten minutes! Ho must be a
thorough-brod The champion balk-lino billiard-
player of the world is alleged to bo Schaefer, of
Chicago. Three thousand people wont to see the
match between him and Vlgnaux, a famous French
billlardist. Schaefer won easily — Charles Rowell,
who at one time was the pedestrian hero of two
worlds, says ho is anxious to run one more six-day
race. roll up a record of 650 miles, and then retire,
At Dayton, Ohio, on March 30, A. H. Bogardus
and Dr. F. W. Carver shot at 100 birds; Bogardus
claimed he won, but the referee decided the match
a draw. Each “ killed,” according to referee, 94—
A prize light was fought at Winchester, 111., on
March 22 between Sam Eagleson and Tom Taylor,
coloured pugilists. The pugilists fought with hard
gloves for a purse. Only 7 a few of the most inti-
mate friends of the pugilists were present. The
fight was a desperate but short one. The first
round consisted of some hard knocking, but at the
end affairs were simple. Second round, more
hard knocking and some butting. Eagleson came
out second host. Third round, each tried to soften
the other’s head; this was impossible; they worked
manfully, and at the end of the round Taylor was
rather worsted. Fourth and last round, not much
science hut lots of pounding; the honours wera
easy, but Eagleson got out of wind and threw up
the gloves, and Taylor w»s declared the winner—
The Duchess of Montrose has made the sporting
baronet, Sir J. D. Astley, her fldus achates in the
management of her late husband’s racing estab-
lishment.
A SPORTING ITEM.
Photographer (to Mr. Terrance O’Mugsey, alias the Bad Tin from Ballarat, who
has called in to be “took” as he appeared after his great victory over the Woolloo-
mooloo Spring Chicken): “ Now, then, look pleasant, and wink if you wish to. It will
not make any difference with the picture.”


p
URNITURE SHOW BOOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connoll and Spring street*, Sydney.
Hall FDBNITUReT HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. __ __
TIBRARY
I J TABLES. BOOKCASES, SBUKE1A1KLS,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradlev, New-
ton and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney. _
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
“1VTOVELTIB8 In Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
(TConnell-etreet.
FTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and ine*-
pensive; BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
a
O’Co
I’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants,
smoking rooms, &c.
B' ILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances ; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—may bo used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradlev, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O'Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O’Connoll-streot. l_
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-fcet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-strect.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands. from 10s 6d: Tables, from7s 6d ; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 35s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
O
VBRMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
3. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Shelves, 8.5s
P
URNITURE—The Largest Stock in the
__ Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
RAWING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE. — Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner tVaggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O'Connell streets.
Framework for drawing and dining
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
ED8TE ADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, andJLamb.
ED DING.—All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
B
W
G
S
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
ENTWOOD FURNITURE—A very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new,
designs.
Occasional chairs in very great
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O'Connell-street. _
OFFICE "FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs. Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street. ,
TCE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Bx-
I amino before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
TEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
OO GUINEA PIANO. WARRANTED sound
and durable, in solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
P BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
07\GUINBA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
• )( I pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
Boine walnut case; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEV, NEWTON, and LAMB.
tTPP’S' C E L E B R A TED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
M- WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION,
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring street*.
SOCIAL.
It. must be very satisfactory to the Glebe
rowing men to soo their annual ball increasing in
popularity every Juno. Their fourth anniversary,
on Friday, kept this rule, for the attendance was
p-ood, and so was everything else, dust a tew
ladies scarce again, though. Not their fault, of
course. The dressmakers must have laded to
send the parcels home In time, or perhaps Mama
has conceived a sudden and cruel prejudice, and
•• doesn’t like'mo to go to halls this year. " htch-
evor, or whatever, the reason was, there was a
great briskness in filling programmes; and a tow
young men—probably those with big feet, or not
good-looking—had to spend part of their tune
keeping the draught from the doorways, borne of
the other clubs had lent their flags to adorn the
hall the floor was in good order, and the music
was nearly first-class, but not quite. However,
the supper was quite, because the ‘ City spread
it, the overcoat official was smart, and there
wore two extras added to the programme. There
wai only one gentleman in fancy costume, and ho,
no doubt troubled by the same feeling which over-
whelmed Robinson Crusoe, namely, that there
was only one of him on the scene, underwent a
change (luring the evening from gay to grave. A
bridal dress was the most admired of any In the
room: it was ox’eam brochd. There was nothing
else about it to describe. It was only cream
brochd; but everything that cream brochd might,
could, or should be, to make it nice. A da nty
dress from Domain Terraco was of black velvet
with Elizabethan collar, and shrimp pink satin
skirt. Patience, with a figure not quite so sylphio
as that of the diva Alice, was the prettiest
character, in her rustic print that was quite
deliciously short. And her piquant hat—which is
supposed to bo correct shape for the ideal milk-
maid, but which no real milkmaid in the history of
the world was ever known to wear—Termed a
charming frame for a picturesque face. Patience s
sister was something in the black velvet and gold
coin lino, and was one of the first to get her pro-
gramme full. A very pretty little waltzer came
from Oxford-street, a curly blonde in pink, with
calm blue eyes, and foot that could never go
wrong. Black velvet and swansdown. white satin
and lace were harmoniously blended in the sober
but pretty costume of a premier pianiste. A lady
who is fond of good dancing, and good at it, wore
a daring costume, distinctly diabolic; for round
(ho scarlet skirt a procession of good sized devils
was represented, chasing one pother in cheerful
glee. A young lady from Glebe Point Road was
supposed to be French Colours, though her dress
was only skyblue; but after a little puzzled inquiry
it was found that she always allowed her best
young man (for the time being) to carry the
colors for her. Four Glebe sisters formed a charm-
ing group, in blue, cardinal and white, blue and
white, and red white and blue; the last a fancy
dress of the Club colours, and matching the
wearer, as both were pretty. Several ladies donned
the chib colours. One of the characters present
was Frivolity, then a Flower Girl, Waiting Maid,
Night-a starry costume worn by a Darlinghurst
lady—a Greek Lady, and a French Pheasant Girl
(which must bo a new sort of girl), all excellent, it
no" novel. But the novelty of the ball was cer-
tainly the character of Music, personated by a
Globe young lady: the dress was of white satin
withblack velvet waist, two rows of black velvet
tabs; and round the lower skirt several bars of
music, large and bold, worked apparently in black
wool on the white satin. A small violin depended
from the waist. The idea was novel, and the dress
nicely made, and altogether creditable to the young
Irtdv For trnico of deportment und limitless
(lancing, a Woolloomooloo belle in blue bore
the palm clear away. A Tambourine Girl from
Hod fern was very attractive in black and terra
cotta red, and a favourite Balmain dancer wore a
rich dross of maroon velvet, and pink satin skirt
with narrow ruche. A Spanish Girl was as nice as
nnv It was just 4 o’clock when the ball ended,
and'lt is pleasant to know that it was as successful
financially as it was socially.
# • *
The June Bachelors’ Assembly last week
at Nithsdale— wisely antedated so as to avoid clash-
ing with the Globe ball-was most agreeable, and
remarkable for the amount of warm colours the
ladies displayed. Everyone seemed pleased, and
seventeen dances, with a comfortable interval for
refreshments, occupied four hours. A tall bru-
nette was in dark velvet top and smoke-coloured
cashmere skirt. Peculiar was a dress of soft
cream cloth, loosely fluted on the body but gathered
tightly In very fine pleats at the waist, pulled
skirt and no collar beyond a loose wisp of lace.
A cream satin, with palest blue breast shimmering
through open lace work, and lace-dniped skirt-
front was very tasteful. A beautiful Grecian lace
peeped out of dark blue cloth a rich satin com-
bined old gold and gronat shades with striped
trimmings. A youthful lady showed how artistic
her ideas were by tacking real variegated geranium
leaves on a pure white dross, which looked novel
and pretty, out the loaves had the bad taste to fall
( f A rich dress from Marrickville was worn by a
married lady ; maroon velvet trimmed with white
lace and perfectly plain skirt of crushed straw-
berry silk niched hem. It divided the night s
honour with the costume of a lady from Woollahra,
whose dross-trained body of cardinal satin and
skirt of gathered cream satin, massed with lace—
was very beautiful.
* * *
A most interesting Hebrew wedding was
celebrated at Guunedah on the 6th June, when
Miss Hannah, second daughter of Mr. George
Cohen, was joined to Mr. Joseph Barnard, accord-
ing to the Jewish rites and usage. The bride and
her six maids all wore rich white satin, and the
ceremony was performed by the Rev. P. Phillip-
stein at the residence of Mr. and Mrs. Cohen, and
under the canopy of Chummh, at noon. Dancing
and luncheon followed, Mr. G. Gabriel proposing
the health of the new pair, who left for their
honeymoon by the Sydney train.
* * *
At the ball given at Auckland by Sir Wm.
and Lady Jervois, in return for that tendered to
them by the citizens previously, there was a bril-
liant assemblage. Sir William was dressed in his
striking uniform of Lieut.-General of Engineers,
with decorations. Two Bishops were present, and
Mrs. Thomas Morrln was considered the attraction
par excellence.
• • •
To-night (Thursday) the second annual
Owl Ball is to be held in the Town Hall; dancing
beginning at 9 o’clock. Dress is plain or fancy, at
option; and, as tickets have only been disposed by
the committee personally, no undesirable persons
will mar the ball by their presence. The pro-
gramme, which has been specially designed for the
Owls, is, in our opinion, the prettiest thing of the
kind ever produced in Sydney. It’s a study of
birds in brown and buff, a thing of beauty and
but buy one and look at it.
• • •
A Queensland romance. Warden Gill ha,d
a servant-maid and an orderly. Orderly and maid
made an orderly arrangement to “get spliced.
Orderly transferred to Charters Towers. Maid to
follow. Warden Impounds maid. Maid expounds
i.e. clears, per Cobb’s coach, to her lover, warden
pursues maid, and gets one T. Q. Jones, who is on
the commission, to grant a warrant for maids
arrest, which T. Q. J. “ hadn’t oughter ” done, such
being contrary to law. Warden discomfited. Pair
happy. An ex-Warden now looks queer about the
gills, being cognisant of the fact that the golden
mean’s a fool to him. As for T. Q. Jones, J.P.. he
purged himself of his fault by an ample apology to
the maid, the grammar of which was as defiant of
the Queen’s English as the warrant-signing had
been of the Queen’s peace. Here is a bit of it:
“God, who sees my heart, I did not do it to hurt
you, only the way he came down to ray house and
told me I was perfectly right to do so. Had 1 had
the Master and Servant’s Act, all the Gills on earth
would not make me do it, but I trust to God I done
my brother magistrate towards you with all his
points of law, wo had the law book too. I am very
grateful to you Miss Elizabeth Price for sending
me the note you have. Hoping God speed, a long
life, and a happy future, I remain, yours respect-
fully, Thos.Q. Jones.”
* * m
A birthday party was given by Mrs. Kron,
Elizaboth-street, last week, to her daughter, who
is somewhere in the sweet “ toons,” and looked
charming. A most merry evening was spent,
dancing and music being the main Homs, and the
Owl Schottlsche a marked one. Two sisters in
satin from Moore Park, and a namesake from the
Glebe in pale pink, then a trio from Georgo-streot
(cardinal under chocolate lace was "over so,”) a
couple from Miller’s Point, and a Bourko-stroet
young lady in hart-istio costume, wore among the
attractions. Two flowers were from Botany-
street. An auctioneer’s wife was, os she always is,
charming; and her sister in black satin and white
lace was so too. It was three before the gaiety
slackened. #
Pious money-gathering is a problem that
has vexed the theological mind for ages, but for
an ingenious solution of it, the parson of a Irlsco
Methodist Church must go up top. This was the
plan. All the ladies of the congregation sent in a
basket containing a lunch prepared by their own
hands and for two persons. Each basket was ac-
companied by a card giving the name of the donor.
An auction was then hold and the baskets sold to
the highest bidders. It was an obligation upon the
fair lady who prepared the lunch to sit down and
eat it with the purchaser. The lunches prepared
by the prettiest women, of course, brought the
highest prices, and, as may well be imagined, the
competition in certain cases was exceedingly keen.
The scheme was successful, and a great haul
was effected. Now this completely effaces the
idea that parsons are not practical, for the reverend
inventor of this happy plan showed himself not
only a master in the art of pious finance, but ex-
hibited a knowledge of human nature, and ot
things specially pertaining to the world, the flesh,
and the devil, that is really startling. The young
man who, by reason of parental restraint, sits in
his pew on Sunday, eyeing 1 the beauty on the other
side of the aisle, would give a good deal to be
brought into contact with her and to enjoy a
pleasurable But he seldom has the
question put to him, straight—how much will you
give? * * *
Among all the pleasant ways of spending
an evening, the Bread and Butter Dance may
fairly be hailed as one of the most sensible. Di-
vested of the expensive show connected with a
dress ball, with less of ceremony and more socia-
bility, it affords much enjoyment at little cost.
The entertainment is just of such a character as its
title indicates: economy is held in view, and there-
fore the fare is plain; enjoyment is expected, and
therefore all the harass of elaborate preparation is
carefully eschewed; while, by an early break-up,
the limbs are saved from too much stress, and the
harvest of pleasure overnight yields no aftermath
of exhaustion next day. Seven young gentlemen
of Burwood gave a bread and butter dance last
Friday in their local town hall, nearly 150 guests
being present, and the whole affair was managed
most satisfactorily. Ingham provided the music,
and the refreshments, if not sumptuous, were
quite sufficient to sustain the vigour of the dancers
during their four hours’ exertion. Sixteen dances
were printed on neat little programmes, and after
the metropolitan and line visitors departed, a few
extras finished the night. Two very pretty girls
from “ Horkosley” divided honours with a North
Shore belle; and a nice little girl from “Clovelly,
in pink trimmed with lace, came in tor a lot ot ad-
miration. The excitement of the evening was
when a class of local debaters discovered that the
apartment they had engaged for their debate had
been jumped by the committee tor a dressing-
room. But when they found it was for ladies,
they knew they’d stand no chance in arguing the
matter, and at once gave in.
* * *
A Pastoralists’ Club is to be launched in
Sydney, for the mutual advantage both of etn-
plovers and employes, and it is intended to com-
bine with it an Exchange. A Bushman’s Club is
also projected, which shall be to bushmen what
the Home is to sailors. Only there are reasons
why it can be made much better.
* * *
In a certain Western township a ball was
Imminent, and a gay telegraph spark, thinking to
have some fun, sent a young person of the contra
sex a bogus Invitation. Suzanjane, overjoyed at
the looming treat, invested considerable sums iu
the purchase of attire, to find, the day before the
ball, that she had been cruelly sold. But, just
then, the Postal Inspector happened to call that
way, and, hearing of the huge joke played by the
telegraph spark, looked him up. The exuberant
youth was allowed the choice of paying for Suzan-
lauo’s pretty new dross out of his own pocket, or
the “sack.” Well, ho wasn’t sacked, but, when-
ever ho meets Suzanjane in the street, in the dress
he purchased, her smile stings his tender heart like
nitric acid.
• • •
About the liveliest wedding-night on
record was passed by a happy pair down South.
Tin-kettling was industriously proceeded with,
till a stalwart young man, who had been enjoying
it very much, suddenly learned that most ot the
noise was being made by his own horse careering
round the paddock with a milkpan on his caudal
appendage, at a rate that would shame the railway.
Upon this, the bridal party sallied out, and waged
war with the tinpot aggressors, smote them hip
and thigh, and finally captured one of their horses.
Then the guests left, and the new-made groom,
taking the captured moke into the kitchen as a
hostage, sat on guard till 6 o’clock in the morning,
one arta hooked round the bridle, and the other
encircling his innocent bride. The horse, no doubt,
was much interested, but the fair bride didn’t
appreciate the deviation from the usual marriage
proceedings.
• • •
As Madame Charbouuet-Kellermaun gives
her Pupils’ Matinee Musicale on Saturday, in the
Protestant Hall, a treat may be expected. It com-
mences at 2.30 p.m., and among the numbers are
favourite waltz of Madame’s own composition,
and her own transcription of Braga’s "Ruinsof
Athens,” arranged for 21 hands.
* * * *
Great preparations are in progress for the
Grand (E.C.) Masonic Ball on Tuesday, in the Exhi-
bition. Only plain dress will be worn, excepting,
of course, regalia or uniforms, and most mem-
bers of the Ministry, many parliamentary and
municipal members, foreign consuls, and military
and naval officers are to be present. Special
steamers and trains run in the early morning to
almost every suburb, and as far as Parramatta.
Professor West will superintend the dancing floor,
and Mr. 8. Hodge conducts the music with pi°hod
men from the City Band. Upder those circum-
■ stances, it Is quite safe to predict a splendid ball.
* * *
A very pleasant social evening was spent
at Mr. Simpson’s charming Port Hack-
ing, on Thursday last. A number of Mr. Simpson s
friends had met together for the purpose of assist-
ing in the celebration of his birthday.
visitors from Sydney were present, amongst whom
were several ladies. The journey £r°m Sydney to
Port Hacking occupies four houre, and prov ided
the weather bo fine, it is undoubtedly one of the
most enjoyable drives out of Sydney. 1 The Palpal
music of the evening was that of a harp and violin,
varied occasionally by the piano. Dancing com-
menced shortly after dark, and was continued with
wonderful spirit, and with scarcely any intermis-
sion, till seven o’clock the following morning.
There was some difficulty in deciding who was the
behoof the evening: it rested, however, between
two young ladies—one a fair creature from Dar-
lington. and the other a very popular and well-
known resident of Ultimo.
♦ ♦ *
On the 5th June a pretty wedding took
place at St. Luke’s Church, Burwood, the bride
being Miss Eleanor Frances Reade, eldest daughter
of the late Mr. Charles W. Reade, of Bverton,ve
Dock, the bridegroom Mr. W. Lane, of Clandulla,
Goulburn. The ceremony was performed by the
Rev. Canon Moreton. The bride was attired In
ivory satin and broche, with lace trimmings. She
wore wreath of orange blossoms and tulle veil, a
handsome gold necklet, with diamond pendant, gift
of bridegroom. The bridesmaids wore dresses of
cream veiling and peacock blue satin, with wreath
to match, also silver bracelets, the gift of the bride-
groom They each carried baskets ot camellias
and maiden hair. The breakfast was served up in
Compagnonl’s usual good style. The presents were
costly and very numerous.
• • •
The installation ball of the St. George
Masonic Lodge, Parramatta, was held successfully
in their hall, on Wednesday night, 6th June. The
arrangements were perfect in every item, and
dancing continued most enjoyably, far into the
morning. The dresses were universally attractive,
and the palm could scarcely rest with any particu-
lar one. For real charming simplicity of grace
and style the wife of a Church-street business man.
fn white satin and holly, would, perhaps be entitled
to first place. Another Church-street lady looked
queenly in black velvet and orange satin. Two
Melbourne sisters were much admired in white
satin and spangles. A lady from ’m^ t ’ a
pale, blue, and scream satin, looked charming. A
study in black velvet and sunflower elicited admi-
ration on all sides. A black velvet with pink
flowers, relieved behind with a pale blue revels
scarf, looked superb. A blue, in Queen Anne
stylo, became a Summer Hill lady. A cream and
cerise satin suited a pretty Blacktown lady. A
cerise was much admired. A plain pink costume,
exquisitely made, looked very effective. Every-
body enjoyed themselves Immensely. Music could
be improved on next time, and the catering was
scarcely up to the mark.
• • •
Tickets for the Mercantile Rowing Club
Ball have been taken up so readily that there is no
doubt the Exhibition Building will be full next
Thursday, when this popular ball eventuates.
From the time it was initiated seven years ag9 it
lias been growing In favour, and this year promises
to bo better than ever. The building is being
arranged so as to afford ample space for every-
body, and it has been Anally decided to employ the
well-known Young Australian Band, whoso per-
formances have before given such satisfaction to
the dancing world. The only elements wanted
now, to ensure a thorough success, are pretty
dress and good humour, which tho public arc
expected to bring with them.
* * * *
A nice sociable gathering took place hist
week at the Masonic Hall, Parramatta, it a
complimentary dance tendered to Mrs. Ferris, who
had given a party the previous week. Music was
good, and dancing passable, thoughithe M.C. was
more anxious than able.... the Worialda May ball
was a merry one, and the ladies drosses uncom-
monly pretty. A local lady and a young Victorian
brunette tied for flrst. The bank manager, with
his fair (but not official) assistants, the
room; and floor and music were so smooth that
five and twenty items were scored off before four
o’clock. Some of tho guests had enough vitality
left to play lawn tennis the same afternoon, and
indulge in more dancing the second night ....A
lady doctor, Miss Annie Potts, _ M.D., just fiom
America, is starting a senes of public medical
lectures in Auckland ..A grand dinner and ball
were given, prior to their departme ten England,
by Captain and Mrs. Atkinson (nie Mort), to about
200 employees on the Bodalla Estate. At dinner,
Mr. Hvans, the superintendent, proposed tlm ch cf
toast; and Mr. W. B. Mort proposed The Bodalla
People,” saying no one had a better right to give
that toast than a man named Moit. Mr. R. Mort
also spoke, a very large number of children re-
ceived presents, and a tine ball took i^ht.
A Londoners’ Association has been formed
lately in Sydney, and 57 members were enrolled at
last meeting. The letter H must look °ut now....
Orange Ball at Wellington, July-Close work
at Albury banquet; twenty tabic allowed
fifioh nair of arms. But wtisn t there!....
A largo Mayor’s Ball is looked for in Melbourne
earlvAn August....A huge disappointment was
experienced by an important P e [«un, who possesses
a jealous temper and a lovely wife. Onei moi ning,
he found male footprints in the garden pointing to
and from the house. Flaming with J c alousjq he
covered them with all the dishco vers the house
contained, and went off post-haste engage
detectives and black trackers, ho foirad that
the footprints wore those of the policeman on
beat, who, seeing the parlour window open in the
night, had kindly stepped over and shutAt I So
tho dishco vers were gathered up,
tho jealous man found that ho bad discovered a,
mare’s nest. We own the patent of this Joke. In
answer to “ why don tthey marry? a writersays.
“ Because tho society young girl
fabric that dances, flirts, and ff»bbles, rtngs a little,
plays a little, gushes and loafs a great deal, ana
altogether impresses young men with the idea that
she is exactly tho right personi not to “airy.
But this is harsh, and it s stricUy wrong, aiso^... A
few days ago, Mr. Robert Kennedy (of the scotch
vocalist family) was married at Richmond (Vic.),
to Miss Bella, daughter of Mr. R. S. Inglls. four
bridesmaids, one her 8 J ste .r> u nd h:is. The
maids wore cream nun s cloth skirts, andi bodices
of sapphire blue velvet, and the bude an ivoij
whiWaUn. A ball followed in the evening 1
Fancy Fayre has been a week s boom at Mudgee,
ivhero local belles have been carrying desolatson
mid e despairto e the hearts of Mudgee ; mashers by
their fancy dresses. A oiam and. fancy bah last
niirht whs to conclude the gaiety... .rorty
blooming mothers exhibited M^ eil k 8 ge i I J 1 y
at the Ballarat Baby fehow. Mrs. Davy 8 m "
dustrv resulted in her securing lirst .prize....
A plain and fancy tlressDa.ll takes Pjaoe in Peter-
sham Town Hall on the 30th Juno.. ■ • f betoaugural
dinner of a new club established at Botanytook
place in Mr. Fremlin’s late residence l
dav Mr. J, B. Oliffe in the chair, and Mr, O Connor
in the vice-chair. A goodly was pre
.An English paper states that Lord Chailcs scott
married a celebrated Melbourne beauty. Ahem!
A fewdayrago, Miss Agnes, daughter of Mr.
John Gibson, of Walcha, was mamed to Mr. J.A.
Robson, ot Dungowan. They rafted tor tour
hours lor a parson, owing to flooded rivers. Oliver
grey satin, four bridesmaids, honeymoon to Syd-
ney a. pleasant presentation was made recently
to Miss Catherine Sophia Laing, by the Presby-
terittn eoagregation at Muswelibrook. name v, a
gold locket, necklet, pearl pendant and silver
ware in recognition of some years’ services as
Organist. Kelt day tho lady was married by her
faiher to Mr. Andrew Bowman, M.A., LL.B.,
barrister-at-law, of Skellatar.. ..Anextraordinary
Sicffit occurred. at tho Glebe Ball. A young
ladr while dancing a quadrille on the very
slippery floor, lost her feet so suddenly that her face
struck y the boards, and two front teeth snapped
off. This misfortune excited much sympathy ...
Social continued on next page.


The hospital lunch at Orange eventuates on 5th
July ..A fashion paper says ;“ Crinoline is
coming to the front again.” We’ll never believe
that The City Band are looking around for a
site upon which to erect a stand wherein to give
afternoon performances. Residents in the most
likely spots are busily engaged packing up..
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Balmain R.C. Ball (Town Hall) July 13
Rvdnev Owl Club Ball (Town Hall) June 14
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) June 15
Madame Kellermann’s Matinee June 16
Masonic Ball, E.C. (Exhibition) June 19
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball (Exhibition). June 31
Wooilahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale). .June 23
Ashfleld Assembly ..... .... • June 22
■pno-ineeririg Association Conversazione.. .June 26
Masonic Bali. I.C. (Town Hall) July 5
Newcastle R.C. Ball July 5
The accompanying plate shows an exqui-
site style of dolman, composed of black broch6
and Spanish lace. The chief attraction of the
mttern is the graceful way in which it is arranged
fo allow for the puff at the back of the dress.
And talking of fashion, narrow ribbon velvet is
again coming into vogue for trimming dresses, so
we shall no longer see, in shabby drapers’ shops,
scores of rolls of this same velvet ticketed at a
few pence per piece of three dozen yards. Just
fancy, ladies wearing gloves ever so much too big
for them ! What next ?
For sinking spells, fits, dizziness, palpita-
tion and low spirits, rely on Hop Bitters. Notice.
Two old ladies, the last descendants of
Amerigo Vespucci, are now bogging the Italian
Government for a restoration of the pension of
ten crowns a month granted their family by the
Florentine Republic in 1690. Amerigo, by the way,
was a fraud. He never discovered America until
somebody else found it out first. We daresay two
or three hundred years hence the descendants of
the man who will first discover the meaning of the
Sydney Post-office carvings will be claiming a pen-
sion. And we think they would bo entitled to it.
They have sent back to gaol the Free-
thinkers, Foote and Ramsay, although, on their
second trial for an offence exactly similar to that
of which the two men were convicted and sent to
prison for a year, the jury could not find a verdict
against them, The first case was tried before a
Judge (North) whose reputation as a logician and
as a dispenser of J ustice is, so far as the thinkers
of England are concerned, gone for ever; the
second trial was presided over by the Lord Chief
Justice, who summed up impartially, and plainly
indicated that, in his opinion, the days of blas-
phemy prosecutions were over. However, Foote
and Ramsay have “blasphemed,” and the Omni-
potent Deity must, in the opinion of Mr. Justice
North, be protected. Which shows what a powerful
personage man is when he likes. He is only second
to the ground-worm.
Sir William Chambers received his baro-
netcy just in time to put the title on his coffin-lid.
The Clarkes and Wilsons of the Antipodes—clever
men—managed to get theirs much earlier. Cham-
bers’ claim was just as valid twenty years ago as
it was last month; but, you see, he was right under
Her Most Gracious Majesty’s nose, and so he was
probably overlooked. And perhaps, dense man,
he didn’t study how these things are worked.
But, after all, most likely Sir William was not one
who cared much; grand old men don’t need to; it
is only little beings who can be ennobled by a
“Sir.” And as long as titles are hereditary, and a
man is a lord because he is his mother’s child,
though a dolt at that, so long would plain William
Chambers be more a nobleman in the eyes of the
people, for his life’s work done, than half a hundred
of such “Sirs” as those to whom on his death-bed
the Queen levelled him. Up, or down ?
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Osborne’s difficulty is to get broad ideas
into narrow minds.
This is not from an obscene publication.
It is from a Sydney “religious” paper, The
Presbyterian A wonder has appeared in
Sydney. Rev. John Osborne, a Wesleyan minister,
has come out as an apologist for Popery. He is
charitable enough to see some good men in the
mother of harlots and abomination of the earth.
Charity is a harlot herself when she apologises for
iniquity.”
The Bishop of Newcastle courteously in-
forms the militant Spicer that when he (the said
Spicer) is older he will know less. We quite agree
with Dr. Pearson in thinking that Spicer should bo
careful how he undertakes to reply to W he well.
The “grand old master of Trinity College” was of
far heavier calibre than tho curate of St. Mark’s,
though, to borrow a venerable joke, the latter is
the bigger bore.
The Maitland Mercury is much con-
cerned at the idea of concerts, lectures, Free-
thought picnics, and other entertainments being
tolerated upon the Sunday. On this, as on other
subjects, the M. M. preaches gloom—yet, we feel
bound to say, it x-eligiously practices what it
preaches: since its management has so contrived
things that its tone invariably sounds the gloomiest
depths of abysmal dullness.
Thus the Australian Churchman re the
Bright-Spiccr debate:—“I opine that Rev. Mr.
Spicer may congratulate himself on having gained
much notoriety for —Mr. Spicer. Beyond that lie did
but little in his recent encounter with Mr. Bright.
He certainly didn’t advance the cause of the
Church—not that the Church’s cause needs prop-
ping up with feeble buttresses; yet neither is it
profitable to her cause that anyone of her minis-
ters, by airing his bumptiousness and his crude
shallow superficiality, should cause her enemies to
blaspheme.” Gall!
One Sunday, some six or seven weeks ago,
George Campion, who declares he has a mission to
knock Hades out of the Ritualists, entered St. Paul’s
Cathedral, London, during service, and made for
the communion-table, which had been decked with
flowers for Eastertide. Canons and minor canons
and beadles rushed after him, but did not succeed
in capturing him till he had dashed down the cross
from the table, overthrown tho candlesticks, and
upset some of the flower vases. On being arrested
George shrieked “Protestants to the rescue!”
George now wears his hair short.
Here is a tootle from the Harmy Songster,
which is as suggestive as it is vulgar:—
“ The Temple now is nice and clean,
Oh yes, oh yes;
And fit for all to worship in,
Oh yes, oh yes;
But we have a hundred pounds to pay,
Oh yes, oh yes;
I hope you have brought your purse to-day,
Oh yes, oh yes.”
Just so. “ Bring your purse.” They’re all the
same.—“Give, give.”
A waggish Ritualist, under the nom de
plume of “ A Despairing Protestant,” recently
hoaxed the Rock, with the following letter:—
“Sir, —We all know how ridiculously palms are
used in some churches on Palm Sunday. But,
surely when the vicar of a Ritualistic Church (as
was actually done in my own parish), preaches with
palms in his hands and a crown on his head, Ritu-
alistic priest-worship has attained its zenith. How
long is this to be tolerated by truth-loving English-
men?” Tho Rock, when it gave insertion to the
note of alarm, had forgotten that oven Low Church
ministers have palms in their hands and crowns to
their heads!
There was a high old time in Auckland
when the Mormon perverts, as one of the local
papers somewhat spitefully designates them, were
being shipped on the mail steamer on their way to
Utah. It was supposed that tho boss Elder of the
crowd would deliver an address from the deck of
the vessel. The whole population of the place
turned out to hear and jeer him. But ho was
much too old a rooster to bo caught by such chaff.
He just held his tongue, and ate pickled onions all
the time. Calls were subsequently made for an-
other Elder, which were answered by a small boy,
who said he had “ gone below for a drink.” A
“fat, greasy-looking saint with a greyish board”
was not so bashful, however. He informed the
crowd that the Prophet Isaiah had said the time
would come when seven women would take hold
of one man. If this time is anyway near, we shall
have our head shaved. So as to lessen their grip.
* * *
Father Luckie left £18,000 to a college in
Ireland —a gross misappropriation of a hoard
mainly contributed by Australian Pats. When the
good Father was about to cut his lucky for the
Hereafter, as he couldn’t take his money with him,
he should have bequeathed it to an Australian in-
stitution Judging from the Adelaide War
Cry, Cornopolis is at present enjoying the society
of some of the most infernal ruffians who ever
escaped the hangman’s noose. The Army barracks,
according to all accounts, is degenerating into a
mere assignation-house, and the whole organisation
itself has become so nauseating and disgusting
that respectable people are fearful of what the
consequences may be. And yet they call this stuff
religion! We wonder why, if they’re going to
revive the blasphemy law, they don’t run into
gaol some of the conductors of the various War
Cries A paragraph appears in a Dunedin paper
about Bishop Bromley, the “ Morman ” Pastor,
who is recruiting there. This “Morman” is a
blunder of that wag, the comp. It ought to be
“More Woman.” The Quakers of N.S.W. are
anxiously awaiting information as to the proceed-
ing at the annual May meeting, in London, of tho
Society of Friends, at which it is known that most
important alterations in doctrine and discipline
were to be proposed — Principal Kinross thinks
that the preacher of the Gospel should at least
possess the average amount of knowledge common
to educated men in the community. Breadth of
sentiment, verily, for a Presbyterian! The
Church Review, which is “nuts” on Ritualism,
says, with a spice of envy: “ A priest must on no
account wear a chasuble in the house of the Lord,
but an alderman may get himself up like an electro-
plated armadillo in the house of the Lord Mayor.”
— A Ballarat woman, writing to tho local Star,
says she strongly objects to her daughter parading
the streets with the Salvation Harmy, singing the
while—
“ My old companions, all farewell,
I will not go with you to h—1.”
* * *
Moucure Conway in the Index points out
that Justice North’s definitions of blasphemy in
the two trials of Foote were totally at variance
with each other. In tho first he said that blas-
phemy was denying the existence of Hie Deity,
scoffl ug at God, the Trinity, or the Holy Scriptures;
and in tho second throwing any contumelious re-
proach or ridicule on the Scriptures and the
Christian religion, without a word about God and
the Trinity General Booth says 609 of his
soldiers have been knocked down, kicked, and
otherwise assaulted during the past year. Tills
must be a consoling thought to some people.
Those who can’t expect to get into heaven by other
means can be kicked in—At the recent enthrone-
ment of the Archbishop of Canterbury, a number
of clerics wore lilies in honour of the memory of
Thomas a Becket! The wills of two Anglican
parsons, who died in England during the first
quarter of the year, have just been proved—one
(that of Canon Sir P. Vincent) under £230,000, the
other (that of the Rev. R. T. Lancaster) under
£137,000. Either amount is a tidy little sum to
begin the next world with—Cardinal Pier Fran-
cesco Meglia died March 31, and Cardinal R. Luigi
E. Antici-Mattei died April 21. Both were Car-
dinal-piiests. There are now 61 cardinals living,
exclusive of one whose name is still in petto. Eight
hats are vacant. The 61 hats are thus distributed:
34 to Italians, 7 to Frenchmen, 5 to Spaniards. 5 to
Germans, 3 to Hungarians, 3 to Englishmen (New-
man, Howard, Manning), 1 to a Belgian, 1 to a
Portuguese, 1 to an American (M’Closkoy), and 1
to an Armenian.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ J.S.R.” (Tasmania): Smooth enough, but
not particularly striking. Nearly all hackneyed
words and phrases. Declined with thanks
“ W.J.G.”: Very acceptable...“ C.J.D.” (Hornsby):
You simply copy another man’s letter and send it
as your own! But you’re so dull you’ve even
spoiled the wit that was in it “J.B.P.”: Your
“suggestion” is certainly not in your best style.
Inspiration must have been at low pressure, eh ?...
“T. Mathews”: We don’t believe a bit in Mr. Ull-
mann’s theology. But we believe him to be sin-
cere and charitable, and we are aware of the fact
that he has been so foolish, from a worldly point
of view, as to give up a pretty fat living in order
that he may do good in his own unconventional,
eccentric way. Therefore, we say, give him a
show — “E.W.”: Out of the nine portfolios in the
present Ministry, only live are held by lawyers—
"O.S.” (Wellington, N.Z.): Thanks. Will use some
of them next week—"Philip C.R.”: No; it has
not been finished “Theocritus Junior”: Wo
have received your verses. 8o has the dustman.
You say you will call upon us when you come to
town. Do. You needn’t take a return ticket—
Tintaldra”; Yes; we did hoar a week or so since
that Foley was going to Melbourne to box Miller—
the match to be decided by points. However, wo
believe there has been no more about tho affair
“F.M.”: No. Forbes’ description is true, within
our own knowledge. We don’t see why such
things should not be stated clearly. We think the
Herald entitled to credit for publishing tho com-
munication. Had it always shown the same cour-
age, affairs in N.S. Wales would bo much better
now—“C.B.I.” (Sandy Creek, Q.); Tho same as
other ancient records. Some truth, a good deal of
imaginative embellishment, some poetic fancies, a
dash of priestly imposture, tho usual infusion of
misconceptions by stupid recorders, with a woof
of universal morality running through it all
“Subscriber” (Singleton): Not feasible just now, nor
till wo get other things into smooth running.
Simple as it seems, to do as you suggest would
take twice as long as the other way. It would bo
an improvement, certainly: and if it can be done
after awhile, it shall. Wo have experimented in
various ways — “ R. Scott”: No wonder there was
a dispute. It’s a hard case, and no mistake. At a
raffle one condition was that tho winner should
spend £1. One A throw 43, and B thereupon bought
A’s throw tor £5. This proved to be the winning
throw. B declined to spend the £1, arguing that
A was winner, not he. A equally refused, on tho
ground that ho sold his chance and all that went
with it. You ask our decision. Unless there were a
distinct undertaking that B bought only A’s bene-
ficial interest in tho throw, he bought the throw and
all it involved, and should pay. And, apart from
tho reason of the thing, he should have stumped up
like a man, seeing that he had got a horse, saddle,
and bridle for a £5 note—“Australian” (Penrith):
Thanks. But we haven’t kept tho tiles. Besides,
you know, we nevah read these papahs I
“Botany”: Thanks tor the extract from Henry
George’s “Progress and Poverty.” We have tho
work, are glad to observe that you have, and would
gladly see every tree-souledman possess a copy
“Byron”: Not Byronic, but Rabelaisian
“Hard-up”: No. Mr. Waxman was not present at
the Czar’s coronation. The climate of Russia is
extremely unhealthy for Hebrews who only charge
1400 per shent, and besides the natives have a
foolish custom of skinning loan-office sharks alive
and then riding them round on a rail amidst a
gorgeous display of Chinese eighteen-penny-a-
packet crackers. ..“H.T.M.”: Wo don’t deal in
such idiocies—“ A School-boy”: Much obliged...
“J.W.”: Yes, we do want more. Kindly call at
your convenience “A Follower of C. Bright”:
People growl at every paper and read it all the same.
— "E.S.C.”; Redmond, we believe, is a Roman Ca-
tholic. Anyhow, the Bathurst hierarchical organ
says so—“6, Little Brisbane-street”: Will attend
to the matter— “ The Man that Struck Buckley”:
You’re weeks behind the fair, old man. They're
all sold, long ago “J.D.”: Many thanks
“J.B.P.”: Excellent. ..“Anti-Ass”: Yes, we notice
that the Czar has been crowned, He wont to the
ceremony “ preceded by tho assassins of his father,”
&c. We suppose you know the quotation
“T.S.D.”: A good joke “Flotchie”: (1) No; on
tho contrary. Sir Alfred considered they should be
hanged. (3) Write to Mr. Kirby, bookseller, Pltt-
street. (3) Billy Bent’s stump speeches are not
printed “E.W.J.”: Pig-vote Cooke was tho
former member “Bogey”: The Styx river,
N.S.w., is so called because there are many fire-
sticks there—“C.H.H.”: Declined, with thanks.
— “ fnconnu ” (Gymple): Verses suitable—for a
hymn book “ Anonymous ”: Don’t think we can
use it “Mac”: Not fit in present form
“T.C.H.”: Far too hot “Pluma”: Wants gram-
mar rectifying — “ Decency ”: You seem to know
all about it “ Vigiians”; A par already in tho
paper “ R.G.P.": Received; will have attention.
"Undergrad”: Right—“Walcha”: Thanks;
Next week “A Resident”: Will attend to tho
matter “W.M.G.”: Well written, next issue
“Ofellus”: Will read and consider “O’Con-
nell”: Received and noted “A.J.C.”: Send
along.
Long years ago, when men had anxiously
watched the stars—when the cruel tyranny of bar-
barian kings, and no loss tyrannous priests, had
made men look from earth to heaven with the
Psalmist’s cry of “Return, U Lord; how long?”—
a star appeared In the East. The wise men noted
the stranger, and followed it. It hung in tho
Heavens long days and nights, and, according to
the Gospels, stood over a little village called Beth-
lehem. Shepherds were watching their tlocks by
night, “ when suddenly there was a multitude of
the heavenly host, praising God, and saying,
‘ Peace on earth and good-will to men ’ ” (of good
will). Ages after, that star appeared again to
Tycho, and he said it would come again in 1883 or
1884. It will appear this year. They call it the Star
of Bethlehem. Tho wise men said: “ We, in tho
East, have seen His star, and have come to worship
him.” We are in the East this time; and ?
“ A most serious charge has been made by
a seaman named Matthew Mooney, respecting the
bad treatment which he received during his short
stay in the Adelaide Asylum, where ho was con-
fined for religious mania, arising from the influ-
ence of the Salvation Army on his mind. Mooney
accuses certain warders whom ho names of jump-
ing bodily on him, and treating him In a disgust-
ing manner. His person is covered with bruises
and scars. He asserts that the warders repeatedly
made the patients light for the amusement of the
officials.”— Daily Papers.
“Religion ! what treasures untold
Preside in that heavenly word!
More precious than silver or gold
Or all that this earth can afford.”
Cowper.
Now, Matthew, once a warrior bold
Of the Salvation Harrny,
Let’s sum up those “ treasures untold ”
With which they erst did charm ye.
Let’s see—They drove you mad, and then,
When your tricks ’gan to rile ’em,
They slung you in an awful den i
Some fools dub an “Asylum.”
And pext (good Lord, what pleasures high
The impious man aye loses !)
They-jump’d upon you, till you lie
A ifiass of “ scars and bruises.”
In fine—(Oh, Mat, your faith how great!
In Heav’n how fondly trusting!)
They spank’d you in religious state,
And treated you—“ disgusting ”!
And oft they made you “ put up props,”
God’s soldier, brave and holy f
While other “ cranks ” just “ gave you slops’
And “bash’d” you to a “Foley.’
Now, if you ask Mat what he thinks
Of "Hallelujah” ladies.
In sulphurous tones at which one shrinks,
He damns them all to—H—ades I
WOMAN ITEMS.
The Gaulois gives the subjoined as a
reasonable estimate for the annual toilet expen-
diture of a lady who has a trousseau complete-
laces, jewellery, and wardrobe, &c.:—Couturiero,
13,000fr.; Modiste, SOOOfr.; Lingere, 4000fr.; Cordon-
nier, 1500fr.; Ganterie, bas, rubaus, noeuds, cra-
vates, filets, bibelots, crepe-line, 6000fr.; Dentelles
d’usage, 3000fr.; Parfumerle, coiffeur, tteurs,
4500fr.; ombrelles, parapluies, 500fr.—Total, 34,500fr,
Say £1360. The above figures, which only refer
to maintenance expenses in respect to fanfre-
luches and fanfiolcs, must be further supplemented
thus—By a washing bill of about 600fr. per month:
the dying of silks, stockings, &c., 3001’r.; and clean-
ing and mending, 200fr. These items bring up tho
grand total to 47,700fr. The Gaulois deprecates
tho idea of this estimate being thought an ex-
aggerated one. It strikes us, though, as if there
wore exaggeration somewhere—query, in the tastes
of tho fashionable lady of tho period.
Of Royal self-sacrifice for a people's good,
possibly tho most touching instance was tho
Queen’s recent refusal to allow Jamb to lie eaten at
her Court. Conceive what that moans! No roast
lamb (no mint sauce), no lamb's fry, no lamb's
sweetbread! Why, good Heavens! ’twas the most
historic return to their muttons ever heard of in
connection with Princes! if Charles the Second
deserved to bo called a mutton-eating king, surely
VictoHa tho First may be said to have earned tho
right to a cognate distinction. And yet, O the pity
of it! tho ink of tho royal and imperial rescript was
hardly dry when out came the uncourtly Pall
Mall Budciet, with its point blank assertion that
mere abstention from lamb will not restore tho
social equilibrium, nor lower tho price of meat,
nor food the hungry, nor stave off Bradlaughlsm.
Sad the Budget with brutal cynicism;—“These
well-intended attempts to interfere with tho
regular course of production arid trade usually do
more harm than good. As a matter of fact there is
no meat so economically produced as fat lamb or
“baby beef” is, and early maturity is becoming
more and more the fine art of the breeder. A lib.
of lamb, or young beef—we do not moan veal
—is produced at less cost than mutton or old beef.
As a rule, all tho ewe lambs worth keeping for
breeding are kept for that purpose already, and to
take away one of tho profits of breeders will not
load to more being saved, oven if it were desirable
to breed from culls. When the Kaiser-i-llind read
that, she felt more sheepish than She cared to con-
fess over her lamb-entablo failure to sacrifice her-
self for her poor people’s good!
* * *
A Koroit (Vie.) slave recently stole a cow
and sold it. She had soon a yellow sateen dress
with improver complete in the store. So she stole
the cow. It is refreshing to note, however, that
popular feeling is with the poor young tiling; and
that her acquittal is looked upon as a matter of
course. It is also said that tho dress in question
has been removed from public competition. There
are plenty more cows — Dr. Anna Potts, M.D., of
Philadelphia, lecturing in Auckland on physiology,
health, and disease. .In the matter of “ pin money’ 1
alone, it is stated that the Queen has already netted
about a million and a quarter from her devoted
subjects. She has a first-rate business notion of
the value of money, has Her Gracious Majesty.
And being a sovereign, you see, she always gets
twenty shillings to tho pound. . The late'census
has revealed the fact that there are 21,000,0(K)
widows in India. By the shade of the elder Weller,
suttee should bo re-introduced, and that quickly.
Barou Maclay is again on a visit to
Sydney.
At Kiandra, Mrs. Chamberlain Clifford has
just presented her husband—happy man!—with
three children, all at once.
Monday’s Echo had a good article on tho
Mason v. Watson case. Should have been in tho
Herald, though, instead of the pro-usury essay
which appeared In tho latter on Tuesday.
H. Wise, Esq., the accountant of the
Savings Bank of New South Wales, has been
appointed Acting Managing Trustee of that Bank
during tho absence of the Managing Trustee, W.
H. Cuff, Esq., who sails for England on the 14th
instant, on leave of absence for twelve months.
Dailey, in his eloquent address at the un-
veiling of the Mort Statue, said that Thomas Sut-
cliffe Mort’s active virtues gave him here a fore-
taste of that everlasting peace which he now pos-
sesses. How docs Mr. Dailey, as tho leading
Catholic layman, square that positive assertion
as to Mort’s actual present possession of everlast-
ing peace with the dogmas of his Church ?
The otherwise fair and sensible article in
Monday’s Herald on tho speech of Mr. Glad-
stone on tho Affirmation Bill was spoiled
by a little of tho old leaven. It said: “His
(Mr. Bradlaugh’s) avowal that it (tho oath)
was not binding on his conscience, &c.”
A reference to tho evidence given by Mr.
Bradlaugh before tho second select committee
of tho House of Commons, question 103, page
15, which have been frequently quoted in the
National Reformer, may perhaps enlighten
tho Herald a little. There Mr. Bradlaugh
answers the question in these words:—“Any
form that I went through, any oath that I took, I
should regard as binding on my conscience in the
fullest degree. I would go through no form, I
would take no oath unless I meant it to bo bind-
ing.”
Bishops Moorhouse and Kennion preach,
after tho fashion of their brethren, Catechism con-
tentment as the remedy for tho world’s social
diseases. Besant and Rico meachod a far more
remedial measure in their Gospel of Discontent.
In “All Sorts and Conditions of Men,” Besant’s
latest novel, Angela, tho millionairess, who turns
practical reformer, is made to say “ I am endea-
vouring to make such people as I can got at
discontented, as a first step. Without discontent,
nothing can be done.” Quito so; without discon-
tent, nothing can be done—for men and women.
Content may bo a comfortable doctrine for those
at the top to preach; but it is not a safe one, since
it implies a belief in caste, and where there is caste
there is ever seething in its lowest circle a force
that only needs a chance opportunity to prove a
dynamitish intensity of upbearing, destructive
energy. No, Right Reverend Messieurs, discontent
at want, dirty surroundings, partial law, official
bumptiousness, redtapeism, intolerance, and such
like things, is tho forerunner of improvement.
The ninth year of the Hegira is known to
the Mahomedans as the “Year of Deputations.”
Last Friday will probably be regarded by Ministcis
as the “Day of Deputations.” On that day Lith-
gow asked the Works for a water supply and for
engine-sheds; tho fishermen of Port Jackson asked
the Colonial Secretary that the waters from Five
Dock Bridge to Bradley’s Head might not be used
as a breeding ground ; Murnimbidgeeans asked
the Works that Wagga might be linked by rail to
Tumberumba; the Berrima Colliery Co. suggested
to the Colonial Secretary that the Government
should meet the wishes of the Berrima towns-
people, who deserved railway accommodation, by
purchasing the line belonging to the said com-
pany; the men of the North-West asked tho Mines
to run up an odd 325 miles of rabbit-proof wire
fencing along the railway line from Dulbo to
Bourke; Parramatta asked tho Colonial Secretaiy
for sugar towards an Industrial Show, and also fi,V
Government assistance in the matter of providing
that borough with baths; Tarago asked the Works
that it shouldn’t be wholly ignored by the railway
line to Braidwood; the North Shore urged on the
Works the expediency of adopting the Lane Oovo
water supply scheme ; Cook’s River men com-
plained to the Works of the state of the road i mi-
ning through St. Peters’ municipality; Wagga
asked Public Instruction for a scliool play-
ground; Newtown and Macdonaldtown joimx, in
asking the Works to extent Barren-street to
Wilson-street,
“CHOIR PRACTICE.”
She sat on the steps of the organ loft
Just after the second hymn,
And through nave and choir to the Cool grey
spire
Tho sound rose faint and dim,
As they settled themselves in the church below
For the sermon that followed next,
And I seated myself by the alto’s side,
As the parson took his text.
I marked the tender flush on her cheek,
And the gleam of her golden hair,
Tho snowy kerchief ’round her neck,
And her throat all white and bare—
A throat so white that indeed it might
An anchorite entice,
And I faintly heard the parson’s word
As he preached of paradise.
My arm stole gently around her waist
Until our fingers met,
And a flitting blush made the tender flush
Of her cheek grow deeper yet.
Snowy and fair the hand beneath,
And brown the palm above,
And the brown closed softly o’er the white
As the parson spoke of love.
Ah, who is wise when deep blue eyes
Meet his and look coyly down ?
Who would but drink, not care to think
Of envy’s jealous frown ?
’Twas but to bond till I felt her breath
Grow warm on my cheek, and then
My lips just softly touched her own
As the parson said Amen!


VANITY FAIR.
Apropos of Mr. Julian Hawthorne’s novel
of “Dust,” the Saturday Review amiably invites
the author to explain how an officer who was one
of the guards of Napoleon at St. Helena contrived
to get himself killed at Waterloo A London
magazine for 1794 contains the following almost
unique death announcement: “In childbed of her
thirtieth child, the wife of Mr. Joseph Sims, at the
Bell Inn, Cambridge, County Gloucester.’ - The
question whether a clergyman could marry him-
self was decided twenty or thirty years ago by the
British House of Lords in an appeal from Ireland
where a Presbyterian minister in the County
Down had married himself. It was decided he
could not—Baron de Worms, speaking in the
House of Commons, recently, said: “We owe
much to the Jews.” And from the back benches
came a groan “ wo do.”.. . From the S. M. 11 khald :
" Wanted a young Jady (Protestant) to assist with
housework and children; required to know a little
of cooking and sewing. £25 per annum.” The girl
who is wanted on such conditions would be a tool
if she didn’t protest, and that mighty vigorously.
“One of John Brown’s fads.” says Truth,
“ was a violent hatred of the press.” Every
jumped-up bully hates the newspapers....A Syd-
ney religious paper says that a woman has two
smiles that an angel might envy: the smile that
accepts a lover before words are uttered, and the
smile that lights on the first-born baby. The
religious editor seems to know all about it, but,
then, thcsd independent rovers are such gay dogs.
Short hair’s the latest English craze
That woman’s world possesses.
We now suggest it for the stage -
Sacked tresses for actresm !
A girl up North refused a telegraph line overseer,
because she said she didn’t want a man who
wandered of a night from pole to pole and when
he came home would be Insulate as to cause the
neighbours to talk.... A young lady waltzing at a
private boll at Baccup (England) just at midnight,
fell into her partner’s arms, and died in a few
minutes Primrose Day is well recognized in
London now, and is observed in honour of Disraeli.
Everyone wears primroses, which were Dizzy’s
favourite flowers At a ladies’ gymnasium in
New York, boxing is regularly taught to the fair
pupils, i’rta the exercise has proved splendidly
health!.d to them. “Manly” art no longer ...
Theatre parties have grown to be colossal. One
fashion lead Invited over a hundredgueste to the
theatre at her expense, then took them to a cate
for a sumptuous supper, and finished by a ball till
daylight. At New York....“ Silver Pen” says :
Ladies, always dress so as to be prepared for an
accident. Any moment, anywhere, you may meet
a mishap that necessitates your finery being pulled
off, and your under-garments exposed to critical
eyes. You may sprain your ankle, and be taken
into a chemist’s shop, and how would you feel,
when the smart French boot is taken off, if your
stocking shamed you ? Think of the contempt
that would be felt for a woman In silk and velvet
having the underlinen of a beggar! It happens
pretty often. Don’t be too gorgeous outside.
..John Brown s influence was so paramount that it
was useless to attempt to question his acts, some
of which were extrai rdinary. At the weddings of
the Dukes of Connaught and Albany, many of the
best places in the nave of St. George’s were filled
with Windsor publicans and tradespeople, who had
received tickets from their powerful friend In
fact, they were seated on the chairs in front, while
Feers and Peeresses, and persons well known in
Society,” were standing behind... .Paris milliners
say no big hats are worn this season at the theatre.
Now, when a big hat obscures our vision of the
stage, we 11 know that the girl Is only wearing a
home-made affair, built on the mins of last year I
....Opinion is twilight; science is daylight; ignor- I
ance is night. Life is a point between two eterni- I
ties... Some I reach ladies now discard corsets
altogether, having as a substitute very heavy lin-
ing and whalebone sewn in the bodice. Others
again, determined to bo ethereal at any cost, wear
nickel-plated corsets, warranted “ not to give.”
Men would be saints if they loved God as they love
women — Two shades of strawberry, fresh and
crushed, are arranged in one material, called a
strawberry duet.... London ladies doom an append-
age necessary on the promenade. Sometimes it is
the prevailing masher, with “ old chappie ” collar;
sometimes a dog; or, as a last resort, an overdressed
girl child of their own. This appendage is carefully
trained, no spirit is permitted, but the little child
struts demurely and mutely along, conscious of
gorgeous raiment, and perfectly aware that she is
only thBro as part of the picturesque effect A
Parisia* milliner gave a luxurious lunch to over
* , of . her aristocratic customers, amid the display
ot hate and bonnets, in her showroom. There
must be a large margin in hate to stand this sort of
thing There’s one advantage a man has: he doesn’t
have to worry for about six weeks every Winter
oyer the plans and specifications of his Spring bon-
not.; One purely Indian feature of the International
Exhibition at Calcutta will be a collection of
Oriental jewellery such as has probably never be-
fore been brought together. The splendid collection
recently on view at Jeypore will be exhibited, and
such other jewellery as the committee oan induce
the Princes of India to loan for the occasion On
the 22nd ultimo, Henri Etienne de Josselin passed
in his checks at Sydney. He could cook...“ Wales”
was made a Prussian General the other day. The
Emperor presented him on the occasion, not with
a toothpick, but with a sword from the Hohen-
zollern Museum—Robert Browning, in one of his
Jocoseria, asks us to fancy Solomon thus address-
ing the Queen of Sheba:—
“The truth-compelling Name!—and at once ‘I
greet the Wise—Oh,
Certainly welcome such to my court—with this
proviso :
The building must bo my temple, my person stand
forth the statue,
The picture ray portrait prove, and the poem my
praise—you cat, you! ’ ”
. ..The terra “tea-drunkard" is known through-
out Russia, and implies, not the abuse of mhur or
any spirit distilled from the herb, but that the cup
which cheers intoxicates also, if zealously adhered
to. Strong tea Is well known to be a powerful
hough fleeting excitant of the nervous system;
nd, if the reader likes to make the experiment
t him drink a dozen or fifteen cups of tea In the
usslan stylo—that l s , without cream or sugar, but
savoured with a drop of lemon-julco—in the space
of a couple of hours, he may arrive at the conclu-
sion that there is something rational about such an
epithet as tea-drunkard, after all Morrison
Heady, the blind and deaf Kentucky poet, posses-
ses extraordinary skill as a chess player. He plays
upon a board so contrived that the pieces fit into
sockets, and, by the aid of touch, analyses the most
intricate situations. A glove upon his hand with
the alphabet printed upon it is the medium by
which he receives communications The gigantic
elephant at the Schoenbrunn Imperial Menagerie,
near Vienna, Austria, was poisoned, on April 5,
“by command.” Fifty grammes of prussic acid
did the business in less than eight minutes
Sir Moses Monteflore, the English philanthropist,
will soon be 100 years old, and it is contemplated to
give him a splendid centennial gift, if Daniel
Woods, an English soldier in the battle of Water-
loo, and one of the guards of Napoleon at St.
Helena, has just died at Indianapolis, aged 106
This year is the centenary of balloon invention.
Montgolfier Brothers invented first, but M. de
Rozier was the first human being who ever as-
cended in a balloon. An English M.P., Mr. Walter
Powell, is the first,man who ever went up, but
never came down. . It often happens that a general
who goes to war, and kills a lot of men, gets
knighted. Sometimes doctors are knighted
First instance of a woman officiating as marrying
minister occurred at Ohio, where .Mrs. Lyfiu
Romick joined Charles Plm and Em. Bryant
Mr. John Linay, of Melbourne, left nearly all
money to charities, close on £20,000 A divorce
suit in Melbourne “ high life” is about to be #otn-
menced. The petitioner is a gentleman oceupyi n#
a high and responsible position in the Civil Ser-
vice, who seeks to obtain a dissolution of his mar-
marriage with his wife. In fact, he is Mr.
Thomas Bolam, Inspector-General of Schools,
and the papers are saying rough things about him.
Mrs. Harnpson, a revivalist now in Mel-
bourne, is very eloquent. She preaches the
main principles of Christianity, has a good-
looking face, and wears lovely bonnets
The correct position for the “tournure” is now
considered by Parisian ladies to be exactly at right
angles with the waist. And the elegant effect ig
produced, not by the huge, unwieldy crinoline
but by a clever method of “juponnage as the
arrangement of petticoats is called. The gathers
are made full just below the waist, and a small
scientific tournure is sewn into the dress, consist-
ing of a little cushion of wadding in a case of silk,
with one piece of steel run through It. Many
ladles have these tournures perfumed.... It used
to bo, “worth makes the man.” It isn’t now;
Worth makes the woman—the fashionable woman
anyhow Most women who wear brown near the
tace are pleasantly safe. No matter whether tried
by a disagreeable flush or an unbecoming pallor,
it never turns traitor to the complexion, but al-
ways does its very best for the wearer.... A brother
ot Mrs. Langtry is buried at Toronto. She visited
his grave there.
Tisverv true, too true, that (as Gabranny
says) in the theatres, the concert hall, on tb«
recreation grounds, the racecourse, the garden*,
the best hotel rooms, at public meetings-nay
within the very walla of the Parliamentary bullil
mgs—the custom of swearing prevails. But why
did our venerable contemporary omit to add vofc
one more nay, “ within the walls of our churches
for tis a still more painful truth than that re-
counted above that all-round damnation is more
liberally dealt put by the reverend cleric th fl r) a*
the irreverent layman. While the latter genera!!*
does it impulsively, the former is too apt to do ft
with dehberate gusto. Of all those who make a
habit of profanity none are worse than those
Who, never naming God except for gain.
»o never take that useful name in vain •
Make Him his catepaw, and the Cross his tool,
And Christ the bait to trap his dupe and fool I
THE LICENSING QUESTION.
