

THE BULLETIN
VoL 1.—No. 4.—New Series.
SATURDAY, JUNE 9, 1883.
Price —6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 9, 1883.
A Universal Steal.
The above is not a pretty phrase, and this
is the age of pretty phrases. Sweetness is on
the tongue of delightful panderers to the
hypocrisy of the day, and the agreeable
flatterer of this generation prates finely
about light. Civilization in our stronghold.
The enormous march in refinement and
humanity which has been made in eighteen
hundred years is a constant theme of smug
congratulation. Enlightenment marches,
we are told, with giant strides; and the
schoolmaster is everywhere abroad. Magni-
ficent codes of laws everywhere exist to
suppress offences against individuals and
society, and their multiplicity will be
accepted by the future historian either as
testifying to a splendid and universal
development of the moral sense, and a grand
appreciation of the golden rule, or as
evidence of an extraordinary prevalence and
infinite variety of criminal tendencies and
actions during the periods when such codes
were necessary. Could the antiquary of the
future have access to such documents as
budget statements of this age, it seems pro-
bable that he would not long hesitate to
decide that the latter is the true explana-
tion of the extraordinary complication of
criminal codes whieh embellish the statute-
books of every nation in Christendom. And
as the individual morality of to-day would
be judged on this evidence, so the national
morality of to-day would be tested by inter-
national treaties, records, and protocols. It
is a humiliating fact that these, dispas-
sionately regarded, will supply, more promi-
nently than any other facts, the history of a
Universal Steal.
* * *
All Christendom is hard at it. There is not
a European nation which enjoys power to
carry out its purposes that is not engaged
in a grand mission to the Heathen. And, in
every instance, the purpose of that mission
is to pick the Heathen’s pocket. And identi-
cal enterprises have engaged these virtuous
communities all the time during the last—
well, all the time. Without going back too
far, however, we may start with the dis-
covery of America, which was the signal for
Spain, then the devoutest of nations, to
launch an army of missionaries—and another
of filibusters—to steal as many souls and as
much of the New World as their prayers—
and spears—could conquer. Smitten with a
deep commiseration for the spiritual dark-
ness, and an equally deep appreciation of
the temporal wealth, of the pagan people of
Mexico, the one army, in the true spirit of
self-denial, devoted their lives to carrying
the gospel and the fire-stick to these pagans ;
while almost simultaneously the other army
imbued the savages with a proper sense of
the value of the gospel of peace by illus-
trating how exceedingly clean a Catholic
army could strip a country of valuables,
and how particularly promptly it could
abuse the women and hang the “ Rebels ”—
that bunkum had begun even then—who re-
sisted their lawful sovereign, His Most
Sacred Majesty the King of Spain, or, if
more convenient, some high and mighty
hereditary Prince Quackaboo, whom
His Most Sacred Majesty’s troops had
caught somewhere, or with whom it had
suited his Most Sacred Majesty to enter into
alliance. The blessings of civilization were
by those means diffused successively among
the pagans of Mexico and of Peru. An infi-
nite multitude of souls were saved at the
slight cost of roasting such hardened wretches
as insisted upon sharing the damnation
which had been the lot of unnumbered
generations of their forefathers, who had
been so unfortunate as to exist before the
Spaniards discovered that there existed a
continent-full of them, living and dying
under no better care than the loving kind-
ness of Him who created them.
* * *
There seems little room for doubt that
both armies were in downright earnest.
The army of missionaries converted the sus-
ceptible and burned the obdurate pagans
with equal zeal. To the former they incul-
cated the lessons of civilization with patient
devotion, and the monuments of their pious
and devoted labours, in the form of mission
churches and schools, yet stand sprinkled
over the face of the territories which wer
the scenes of their labours, and where
martyrdom not unfrequently crowned their
own lives. Stirred by a glorious emulation,
Portugal was not long in following suit, and
the coast of Africa received their mission-
aries and their filibusters, and churches
and forts sprang up beside every estuary
which their navigators discovered. France
emulated the enterprise of her Catholic
sisters, and Canada and Louisiana ac-
knowledged the blessings diffused by
monks and muskets. Nor were Pro-
testant communities far behind in the
splendid and religious undertaking. The
Pilgrim Fathers and the gaol-ships for the
Plantations carried the Bible and the arque-
bus to the Red Indian; but it is humiliating
to confess that it was merely worldly gain
which impelled France and England upon
the favoured coasts of Hindostan, where
their respective missionaries wrestled with
the Devil and each other, and their respec-
tive armies fought with sacred zeal in the
quarrels between local potentates, and
finished by first gobbling up all the native
rivals who had engaged their aid or resisted
their allies, and ultimately by the English
driving the French into the sea. In that part
of the pagan world the ordinary process has
been reversed. We launched out our fili-
busters first, and when they were satiated
with plunder, and began to think it time
they justified themselves in the eyes of
Heaven, we let loose a swarm of missionaries
and prepared to plead at the bar of the
Eternal that, even if we did steal the land
and the gold of the pagans, we always in-
tended to save their souls as soon as we could
make it convenient, and had quite filled our
pockets—and quite emptied theirs.
But these are old stories. Why rake up by-
gones? We are better, wiser, more humane,
more honest now. We have changed all that-
Have we? Not a bit of it. We are hard at
it again. And so are our neighbours. Just
the same old sham. The same old genuine
insensate belief that, so long as we send
forward an advance guard of missionaries
with mouths full of benedictions and
hearts full of zeal, there can be no
possible objection to our following up
with our filibusters. And, moreover, it is
ridiculous to employ such a term as fili-
busters when the forces engaged are regular
troops, wear the livery, and draw the pay of
the Queen. Besides, there are British in-
terests and inevitable necessities, and things.
Providence will surely recognise the distinc-
tion. For example, how are we to keep fast
hold of what we stole in India, unless we
steal something in Egypt? There can be
nothing morally wrong under such circum-
stances. And the Archbishop of Canterbury
blessed the colours, too. So that, all things
considered, there can be nothing objection-
able in our annexing a tract near Liberia,
and slaughtering the “rebels” there. Be-
cause as soon as ever we have introduced
“law and order,” —by killing all natives who
fail to recognise invasion as “law,” and
military execution as “ order ” — we will
resolutely set to work to “ spread the bless-
ings of civilization,” as thickly as possible,
upon the survivors. And similarly the
French and Portuguese will convey the
same blessings—except that they will intro-
duce the errors of Rome—on the banks of
the Congo, after they have set the natives
by the ears, caused the shedding of oceans of
blood (of negroes merely), provided they do
not find it necessary as a slight preliminary
to cut each others’ throats first in an honour-
able and martial way. And so also in Annam
and in Madagascar the French have the same
grand work in hand, rendered, it is true,
somewhat complicated in Annam by the
circumstance that the pagan there are more
than ordinarily hard to convert—and to kill,
and have exhibited an inconvenient aptitude
for resisting enlightenment when that bless-
ing assumes the form of a sortie, and have
developed an uncomfortable practice of im-
paling general and other commissioned
officers, when caught. This is quite contrary
to precedent. It has hitherto been one of
the blessings of civilization that all the tor-
turing was done by the apostles of enlight-
enment and progress.
* * *
But, to come nearer home, we have civi-
lized Fiji. The usual plan. First, mission-
aries; then filibusters; lastly, law and order.
And now we have New Guinea just com-
menced, and the Rev. Mr. Lawes, the
regulation missionary, took photographs of
the ceremony of stealing, and sent them to
the Sydney Mail —with his blessing, no
doubt. And the filibusters have followed,
already, in due course. But we are getting
so sensitive, owing chiefly to the moral
lessons inculcated in Exeter Hall by the
Y.M.C.A., that we cannot stomach filibuster-
ing unless it be done in proper form by
Royal Warrant, and by robbers in livery.
So New Guinea is to be a Crown steal, and a
special indulgence will, no doubt, be issued
by the new Archbishop of Canterbury, who
will, probably, in due course, ordain a
superior brand of missionary, called a
Bishop, and send him out to sanctify the
theft by his presence and labours. And,
after a couple of years’ yachting and picnic-
ing, the new Bishop will return to England
(for his health) and preach moving sermons
to large and deeply emotional congregations,
and collect a fund for providing native cate-
chists with chewing tobacco and Spicer’s
version of Genesis. The only trouble is the
inveterate obstinacy of the Heathen. In all
these long centuries, and despite the differ-
ences of race and locality, they obdurately
persist in dying out just when there seems a
chance of converting them, ft was so in
Mexico and Peru, in Canada, Louisiana, and
New England. It is so in New Zealand and
Australia. It is coming to that in Fiji. And
so it will be, reasoning by analogy, in New
Guinea. This consolation, at any rate, re-
mains. The lesson comes from Tasmania.
The last of the native race is as likely as not
to be a thoroughly pious person, with a
genuine appreciation of the blessings of civi-
lization —and rum. We will now proceed to
take up a collection.
HENRY MAJORIBANKS CHESTER, ESQ., P.M., ANNEXOR OF NEW GUINEA.


The Kates of Subscription to The Bulletin,
New Series, are—For one year, 34s.; half-year,
12s.; quarter, 6s.
The Advertising Rates in the New Series are 5s.
per inch; special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
gr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS'
Single Settle DipirW,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per Half-Pint,
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome op all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDBILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
Quality Superlative.
4s. 6d. per bottle.
Os. per bottle.
C. W. EGBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Determined Logician.
The S. M. Herald’s own crank in London seems
to bo one of the two living 1 persons who refuse to
understand that Lady Florence Dixie fooled
society with her cock-and-bull assassination yarn.
Ho hasn’t a fact to allege in support of the woman’s
romance. In fact, he admits in the end that she
forged a letter of Cetewayo, or introduced forged
passages. But he has the S. M. Herald manner so
completely, that any surprise at his retention to
drivel so long would be out of place. This is his
judicial attitude :—“If I had the case to sum up,
I should say that no sufficient reasons have yet
been shown for disbelieving this lady’s distinct
and coherent (I) statement.” Then he “has no
doubt” that Lady Florence had received
threatening letters (albeit she has produced
none); explains that the petty nature of the
Injuries (she had no “injuries” that a pin
would not have sufficed to effect) is not to be
reckoned against her credibility, because some
women in Ireland have been let off with hair-
cropping. He doesn’t mention any case in which
assassins commenced by attempting to stab with
daggers, and finished by acting as Then
he doesn’t think the failure of the police to track
the assailant,” amounts to anything; but saga-
ciously preserves silence as to the success of the
police in collecting evidence that had such assail-
ants existed they must have been seen by several
people. Then the scatheless condition of Lady
Florry’s faithful hound, he explains, means
nothing. It would, he remarks, with laborious
jocularity, have been more satisfactory if, like
Artemus Ward’s “ conflsticated ” tiger, he had
returned with a choice assortment of trouser-
seats In his mouth; but what logical infer-
ence, he asks, can be drawn from his failure ?
Well, we should propose the alternatives that
the dog is a fraud, if his mistress is not, or
else that there were no trousers-seats available for
him to “ assort.” And this inconsequential crea-
ture concludes his demonstration by admitting
that the heroine, whose credibility he has so
laboured to assert in the teeth of every proba-
bility, has every presumption against her. “ Hav-
ing said thus much against the objections to Lady
Florence’s story, I am bound to add that she has
herself in a great measure to blame if she is not
freely trusted. She certainly garbled and embel-
lished a letter of Cetewayo’s to aid the ill-starred
scheme for his restoration, and, when she pub-
lished some indifferent verses on the death of the
Prince Imperial, she tagged them with a cock-and-
bull story of a prophetic vision, which if she
believed, no one else did.” Just so. Now, this
being the woman’s reputation, what on earth
prompts the fool to insist that, in an instant, she
is to be believed in the face of all evidence and
universal conviction? Why, because her yarn to
an extent backed up certain political and other
opinions in his letters. Faugh I
Representation of Labour.
There has been some discussion lately about a
suggested representation of labour in the Upper
House. The idea seems to have originated with
Mr. E. W. O’Scxlivan, chairman of the Labour
League, and has thus far received only contemptu-
ous treatment from the Press. It has been pointed
out that it lies within the power of the working
men to return men of their own order to the
Legislative Assembly, and that this opportunity
has been improved by them in but few instances.
From this the deduction is made that it is absurd tor
the working classes to require that the legislature
should so for them that which they having the op-
portunity failed to do for themselves. We are not
clear that the working men can put in a candidate
of their own in many constituencies. Snobbism is
an active element in society; and a working-man
candidate is almost as certain to draw the deter-
mined opposition of the so-called “genteel” classes
as he is likely to secure the vote of his own order.
The straining after gentility goes very far down m
the social scale, and it seems not unlikely that
against the support of operative mechanics and
manual labourers a working-man candidate would
have as set-otf the adverse votes of shop-hands
and other flnnicking gentry, in addition to the cle-
rical, professional, mercantile, and “uppah classes.
Still there is probably something in the objection.
The’working classes in N.S.W. certainly lack the
organization which their brethren in Victoria
have long enjoyed. But when all allowance is
made for their own derelictions in those respects,
there remain several important considerations in
connection with the suggestion that labour should
bo represented in the Council. It is certainly no
reply to allege that among the members of the
Council are several who have been labouring men in
their day. As a rule, the working classes have no
worse enemies than what are called “self-made”
men—men who have wealth without culture. Such
fellows ordinarily evince an inordinate aptitude
for adopting the extremest tenets of privilege.
They frequently preserve the grasping meanness
which, in the sense of penuriousness, laid the foun-
dations of their fortunes, and their upward strug-
gles have in most cases implanted in them a fixed
idea that the great rule of life is to take advantage
wherever you can get it, and to make the most of
it when you have it. Working men know that the
greediest political gleds are the men who have
forced their way from their ranks to wealth and
influence. They know, also, that no politician is
so careless of principle as the able man of humble
origin who has made politics his trade and his
means of livelihood. When a man has been long
separated from the ranks of labour, his sympathies
are apt to cool. What is wanted is to seat in the
Council men fresh from the plane or the trowel,
nominated by the councils of labour, just as
capitalists are dumped into the Council at the in-
stance of influential cliques or wealthy rings. The
precise process of choice presents some difficulties;
but if it be desired that our institutions shall be
safe as well as sound, no better device can be
conceived than to make them all as closely repre-
sentative of public sentiment in its leading vari-
eties as is consonant with reasonable possibilities.
If this course had been adopted in the Government
of European nations, we should not to-day be
hearing of universal conspiracies and universal
preparations for repression.
Three Score and Ten on the Gallows.
The murderer Cosgrove (he is a very old man-
said to bo between 70 and 80), is, according to pre-
sent arrangements, to be hang’ed on the 30th inst.
Why such a decision has been arrived at by the
Executive in this case, wo should like to learn.
We don’t suppose he is to be executed merely be-
cause he is old. Even the North Queensland black-
fellows aren’t prejudiced against old age—as wit-
ness the fact that, on religious grounds, apart from
the question of toughness, some tribes won’t spear
a white horse or a white bullock; and we are glad
that the Executive is now-a-days never half as
barbarous as are our black compatriots in the Gulf
country. Several murderers have recently had
their sentences of death mitigated. The perpe-
trators of horrible outrages, more fiendish than
murder, on defenceless women, have escaped the
death penalty by the interference of perogative (or
the advice of the Executive of the day.) It is to
be assumed, then, that the present Cabinet regard
Cosgrove’s crime as worse, say, than Plomkr’s!
The public do not so regard it. The evidence at
the trial undoubtedly disclosed the fact that a
terrible crime had been committed in an access of
passion under what most people consider strong if
not extreme provocation. As reprieves have pre-
viously been granted under similar circumstances,
it must be presumed that the Executive had
before them evidence not at present accessible to
the public, on which they grounded their decision
to deny the old man the mei’cy of mitigation.
This ancient Lothario is not a typical cri-
minal, for we find, on inquiry, that he
has for many years gained an honest living.
We do not say his age should be treated as a miti-
gating circumstance of his crime; but we do say
that it should be regarded as a circumstance likely
to cause his execution to be viewed with peculiar
horror by a great majority of law-loving people.
Now, the healthy sentiment of such people should
not be shocked. Cosgrove’s execution will cease
to be an example if it breed pity for him, and that
it is bound to do. If his offence had been tenfold
more atrocious, his three score and ten years of
age would plead for him. What is the object of
hanging a man ? Is it not quite as much to set an
example to others as to punish him ? In Cos-
grove’s case, so far as punishment goes, lifelong
imprisonment, we should imagine, would be the
heavier penalty; while, as for example, if his exe-
cution only tends to breed compassion—say a
foolish illogically grounded compassion, if you
like—for an old man whose crime is less mon-
strous than that of several reprieved men, it
will prove a judicial blunder of the gravest kL J
Gingerbread Gentility.
Let us begin softly—for this must be a sore subject
with many people. Softly, then. The people of
this country are in the main equal to any people on
the earth. We mean potentially equal. They
are as a whole more intelligent than the nativ es of
the old world, because they have had the advan-
tages of the new system of education from its first
inception, and because they have had an education
which can only be obtained in a new country.
They have had to fight over again the origina
battle with nature which gives the most ordinary
man a personality and character he could never
attain in the settled grooves of an old civilization.
They have had to grapple hand to hand with
that necessity which has been called the mother
of invention. And they have come out from
the struggle sharp-witted, keen-eyed, and just j
a trifle conceited, But if there is any justifl- |
cation for conceit, they have it. So. Wo have
stroked them down the right, now let us stroke j
them up the wrong way. They have aspira- 1
tions—and aspirations are very creditable things
to have, if they are sensible and practicable. They j
want, do these good people, to make their chil-
dren what they themselves never had an oppor-
tunity to be. They want to make them ladies and
gentlemen. This desire is in itself very praise-
worthy. It shows that there is under the roughest
exterior a yearning for refinement, for a some-
thing higher, though hardly half understood!
Here we might be philosophical, and proceed from
the individual to the race with its pathetic yet
glorious record of upward striving. But we
won’t. We won’t, because those for whose
benefit we intend these remarks would not
read them if we did. But they will read
what we have to say when we put it this way:
Your notions are wrong; you think, if you put
your son behind a desk, or your daughter behind a
draper’s counter, you are making a gentleman of
him and a lady of Iier. You are not, though. You
are, ten to one, making both of them ashamed to
acknowledge you. Do you think that that stylish
young man with the pointed boots and the newest
shaped hat who is just now chatting with several
similar young men outside the door of a swell hotel,
is going to recognise you, his old bricklayer father,
trudging home from work in dirty clothes and most
objectionable boots, if he can help it ? If you do,
you don’t know much about human nature. And
that young lady, d'un air distingut, who is dressed
in the very latest fashion, and is the cynosure of
masculine eyes wherever she goes—do you think
she would be happy to meet you, her hard-working
old mother, in an old-fashioned bonnet and a faded
shawl, upon the block! If you do, try her one day
and let us know the result. It won’t do, friends.
You are placing your children in a false position.
You forget that when you put black coats or silk
dresses on their backs, you are not changing the
skin beneath. You are going the right way to
make them mean, vulgar-minded, and, in all pro-
bability, dishonest. Here is an advertisement
which appeared in the Herald the other day:—
“Wanted, a young man as clerk and salesman;
salary, £1. Apply, &c.” Do you imagine a
young man being able to live honestly on that
salary ? Let us see. In the first place he
would pay, at least, this amount for his board.
Then he would have to pay for his washing, unless
he wore a tin shirt and wicker socks. And, without
being more than ordinarily extravagant, he might
want to buy an ounce of tobacco now and then.
For these extras he has to make extra money some-
how. But do you think he will, or can, stint him-
self to this expenditure ? Not he. He goes into a
hotel with his fellow-clerks, drinks at their ex-
pense, and “shouts” like a man in return. Of
course he does. The money for this must come
from somewhere. And when people find out that
somewhere, this young man generally finds his way
into gaol. In flue, it is next to impossible for a
young man, unsupported from home, to live
honestly on such a salary as that offered in the
advertisement wo quote. And there are scores
who ostensibly do live upon it, and scores more
who would jump at the chance of getting it to-
morrow. Honest labour in a rough blouse or a
print dress is too low for the generation that is
springing up now. It is altogether the fault of the
parents. If they would apprentice their children
to some useful trade, wherein they could make a
scant and honest livelihood, it would bo better
than sending them out as fashion-plate caricatures,
to lose their honesty and honour. This is not
gentility: it is gingex-bread gentility.
Our Black Brothers.
The aboriginal question Is nearly played out. So
are the aborigines. Lot us give it and them a
farewell “ send off.” We have before us a Queens-
land paper—the Northern Miner to wit—which
puts the whole case in very plain, if not very
philosophical, language. We quote the points
“ Shooting blacks is one of the common accesso-
ries of bush life all over Queensland.” “ In
Northern Queensland the rifle is still the per-
suader.” “There can bo no doubt that the gin is
at the bottom of all the massacres, white and
black. British, as well as American, civilisation
inarches over the bodies of the inferior races.
They are shot down if troublesome, utilised where
profitable, but in all cases they are compelled to
make room for the superior race. As for civilising
the Australian aboriginal, it appears a hopeless
task.” “The whites in Northern Queensland are
an average lot, they shoot the male blacks and
carry off the gins, just as they did in Victoria and
New South Wales. There is no occasion for any
holy howling over the business. It is the inevit-
able consequence of our possession of the country,
the English Government having taken possession
of Australia and lot her children seize the lands,
the aboriginals must go somehow —lead, or rum,
or otherwise.” “The nigger has to go.” These
are the practical conclusions arrived at by a
very outspoken journalist, who has had ample
opportunity for studying the conflict of races on
the very battle-ground. And his conclusions cannot
be controverted. If the natives were as thick as
grass, the horse-hoofs of white Attilas would
scorch them out. There is no armistice, no
truce, between the two races. It is a war of ex-
termination. We all know this should not be. We
nil know that it is unchristian to be unjust; that
the poor original possessors of the soil should not
be deprived of it without some recompense; that,
if they can’t bo civilised, they should be treated
kindly, and, at least, allowed to die out in the
course of nature, and not at the hands of violent
men. But what is the course of nature? That
which is. The course of nature is a mixture of
two currents of good and evil, like the afterflood
resulting from the conflux of two great rivers—
one clear as day, one dark sis night. In Queens-
land the blacks are killed by cruelty, here they
are killed by kindness; in one place the rifle, in the
other the constraints of civilisation. In one place
men are guilty of murder, in the other of mercy.
Of course, it is better to be merciful; but the
blacks die all the same. The good people—and
they are good people; at least, those of them who
are not hypocrites and make a trade of the thing—
who subscribe to send missionaries to the heathen,
little know that they are taking the best way to
wipe them out. The statistics of all attempts to
civilise and convert the savage show that the
savage dies out sooner through civilisation
and conversion than by the more straightfor-
ward method of lead and rum. Only the
master-races of the world are fit material for the
ordeal of civilisation. And, strong as we are as a
nation now, we were pretty nearly being wiped
out when the Romans took us in hand—at least we
would have been if the Romans had taken the
Saxon section of us in hand in time. But these
poor creatures can never bp civilised, because, we
believe, they were never intended to be, any more
than birds were created to be caged. And they
cannot be Christianised. It is just an insult to
common sense to bring a blackfellow out and make
him chatter over a few passages from the Bible,
and a mechanical confession of faith, and call that
conversion. Let that blackfellow loose for a week,
and he will rob and lie and drink all the rum he can
lay his hands on. The aborigines of this country
have only half ideas, and you can’t give them whole
ones or make them understand whole ones any
more than you put a white man’s brain into their
skulls. And, after all the talk, this tenderness for
savage races is but a matter of latitude and longi-
tude. East of the Mississippi they are now very
tender about the redskins, and give them reserva-
tions and Bibles, and nice, good, honest agents to
look after them and see that they don’t have
too much money to spend on liquor. But
it was a different thing in the days when
Kentucky was called “The Dark and Bloody
Ground.” At that time, to kill an Indian
was to perform a virtuous action of the high-
est kind. And pretty nearly all white men
were exceedingly virtuous in those parts then.
After the Indian had been shifted or killed out, the
place settled up, and people who took mighty good
care not to arrive there till all was safe began to
speak in terms of regretful admiration or the
“ noble red man.” You don’t find many people
speaking like that down in New Mexico, Texas, or
Arizona. It amounts to this: The pioneer is a
strong-fibred, resolute man, who is just as ready to
clear the country of redskins with his rifle as he is
to clear it of timber with his axe. And as with red-
skin so with blackskin. Down here, where wo
have nothing to suffer from the savages, it is a fine
philanthropic thing to pose as their champion and
talk sounding nonsense about common brother-
hood and all the other claptrap which no man acts
upon, or ever will act upon while the world is
wide, when he is brought face to face with the
trouble. The people who make these fine
speeches are not usually of the stuff that
pioneers are made of, but if they happened to
be set down out in the wilderness, where there
is only one constable to every ten thousand
square miles of territory, or where there are no
police at all, and had a rifle handed to them with
an injunction to take care of themselves as no one
else would, we are more mistaken than we ever
conceived we could be if that rifle didn t smoke at
the muzzle before many weeks—perhaps days—
were over. This would bo in self-defence, how-
I ever. But lot those people open their eyes to the
fact that they are beyond the reach of the law, and
can get rich by what they would previously have
designated robbery, see how many scruples they
will have. Now, this, in our opinion, ends the
whole thing. We don’t think it is right, but wo
know it is inevitable. There is only one way to do
real good to the aborigines. Gather them all
together on an immense reserve in North-Western
Australia, say; there is plenty of room there. Let
them have no rum and no religion, but fight and
frolic in their own way. And by the time the whites
would be closing in upon them, they would have
reduced their own numbers so much by internal
quarrels that the boundary line of their reserva-
tion could be shifted inwards far enough to
allow of four or five “ runs ” in the space
vacated. So the process of closing in could
go on until the last survivors, two or three in
number, were frozen out altogether. Some show-
man by that time would make a good thing of
taking them around the other colonies and ex-
hibiting them as curiosities. This is the way to
let the black race die out easily and naturally.
The present efforts to ameliorate their condition
only result in killing them out sooner, and making
their lives miserable while they do last. We think
our idea of disposing of them is as happy as it is
humane, and we freely make a present of it to the
Governments of the various colonies. For, finally,
the relentless logic of the history of all our past
dealings with the natives is summed up concisely
in the dictum of the Northern Miner— “the
nigger must go.”
The new Patent Bill before the Imperial
Parliament has a clause which is a crusher for the
tradesmen who have heretofore flaunted the royal
arms at the top of their billheads and over their
shop-fronts. There are to be no more “green-
grocers by special appointment to her Majesty,” or
“ corn doctors under the patronage of his Royal
Highness the Prince of Wales.” There is nothing
now left for these people to do but to turn repub-
licans. If royalty won’t patronise the trade, what
is the use of royalty ? In a Republic you can get
any incorruptible Minister to lend you the lustre
of his name for your shop-front, or give you a
certificate that your patent medicines nave cured
him of a disease given up by the doctors. You
can get him to do it easily, for the mere joy of
obliging you—and a consideration. And this
brings to our recollection a little snuff-shop in a
Devonshire town—Torquay, by the way—wherein
two penn’orths of “mixture” were sold ‘‘under the
patronage of his Imperial Majesty the Czar of
Russia. If you doubted the authority of the
snutf-shop keeper to use the title of this august
personage, you would be shown a real Russian
rouble ; and what could you say then ? Why,
simply nothing. And yet the only title this enter-
prising tradesman had for putting this inscription
on his signboard lay in the fact or a Russian sailor
having bought a plug of chewing tobacco from
him about five years before. But if we wore
starting a tripe-shop, wo should start it under the
patronage of Alfred Bennett—no tick to the
staff.


A ferret killed a child of Mr. Raw’s, of
Camperdown (Vic.) on Friday hist—ate away the
side of its face! Ferrets like raw flesh.
Andrew Martin, lessee of Lucknow station,
Waff s'a district, old colonist, knowing: breeder of
horses, straight patron of the turf, and a good
fellow, died at his homestead last week, aged 61.
May he have luck now I
Borne of the Dans about Albury have been
doing behind-the-curtain work. At Redmond’s
meeting they moved resolutions and subscribed
liberally, and then got the press to omit their
names from the accounts of the meeting.
Besides being a powerful and wholesome
tonic, Wolfe’s Schnapps is an unequalled brain
medicine, imparting heathful vigor to that sensi-
tive organ and to every fibre of the nervous
system.—Anv.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
The Mormon elders who recently took
away from Wellington, N.Z., to Utah, 31 souls,
were allowed to pass muster in England by the
colonial immigration authorities. This, remarks
an exchange, is worse than Introducing ballet-
dancers A Richmond (Vic.) man came home to
tea last Tuesday week, and finding his mutton
wasn’t boiled enough, he threw the contents of the
kettle over the cook, who, by the way, happened
to be his wife. This joke can be confidently
recommended to every man who hankers after his
mutton well done A correspondent suggests
the following names for Auckland streetsNgati-
uenukukopako, Ngatirongomaitawhiri, Ngatiron-
gowhakaata, Ngatikahungunu, Ngatimaniapoto,
Rerewhakaitu, Manawakoara, Whakarongomaiki-
uta, Pakarangaranga, and Te Altangaamahaki—
Mr. Prout, representing an Adelaide syndicate, has
purchased the Kirkus mine at Ravenswood, and
should this speculation turn out satisfactorily he
will be prepared to lay out something like £100,000
more in mining Mr. J. C. Eirth, the well-known
Auckland miller, protests against the proposed
sale of freeholds left by old Mr. Costloy, under
whose will the local charities are benefited to the
extent of £130,000. Mr. Firth says the properties
will soon be worth £300,000— A Cardwell store-
keeper, who assaulted a servant in the absence of
his wife, has been sent to gaol for ten years—An
old Coen explorer thinks the recently discovered
Bizant river will prove a branch of the Stewart—
The country south of Cobar is said to be in a fear-
ful state. One squatter has to rent paddocks for
all his 30,000 or 40,000 sheep. He started a mob of
11,000 sheen from Victoria; they were delivered at
his place 5000 short Warden Hill reports that, at
Woolgar (N.Q.), the Soap Spar reef has crushed 18
tons of stone tor over 200oz. gold. A lot of stone,
previously thought not payable, went 5oz. to the
ton. Woolgar looking up; Gilberton very dull—
The first number of of the Cairns (N.Q.) Post has
been issued by Messrs. Wimble (late of the well-
known firm of printers’ brokers) and Wall.. A con-
temporary gravely informed us the other morning
that the extent of land under tillage in Victoria
was over two hundred and four millions of acres.
The entire extent of the Cabbage Garden is only
fifty-six million acres—Certain Gundagaigeese
announce that there’s a good opening in their
town for a second paper, and that universal sup-
port would be given to a journal of even average
ability. This is rough on poor Elworthy ... When
the two young Tasmanian ruffians who went out
bushranging and shot a man in cold blood were
being tried, their counsel pleaded for the defence
“ that the crime was motiveless, evidencing in-
sanity and an uncontrollable desire to emulate
the notoriety of the Kelly gang.” This was a
pretty plea. Anyone, therefore, who murders for
the sake of fame is rather to be praised than
punished. At this rate, the devil will soon have to
sell out of his business — It is alleged that some of
the crew of the Ceara, a Townsville vessel engaged
in the labour traffic, committed a series of murders
and abductions at Erromanga in September last,
the vessel having at the time a Queensland Govern-
ment agent on board I Cannot some of the big
Australian dailies give over girding at the Irish
Land Leaguer, in order to denounce the far more
hideous iniquiies of the Queensland Labour Traf-
ficker? Sunbury (Vic.) Lunatic Asylum must
be in a queer state, if all’s true that is alleged of
the medical superintendent by the eook, and of
the cook by the meat contractor. The cook says
that the doctor purloins the sirloins and embezzles
the potatoes, and that he leaves his patients for
twenty-four hours at a stretch. The meat
contractor says the cook has demanded “kick”
to prevent him making complaints as to the
quality of the beef and mutton supplied —
Of 911 persons who have been convicted or stealing,
receiving, maiming, or killing cattle in N.S. Wales
during the last ten years, 161 have had sentences
of above three years Trooper Gorman has
not yet received promotion for his share in the
Wantabadgery fight. Gorman was the officer who
rushed up to the window from which the bullets
were coming thickly, and after one had grazed his
scalp he coolly levelled his revolver and shot his
man; then he jumped in and caught another.
Gorman is an unassuming fellow; those who ad-
vertised themselves, and used influence, have al-
ready been remembered—Minute of Attorney-
General Dailey on Bathurst Police Magistrate
Leo’s explanation rc only fining a man named Page
£1 for a brutal assault on a little boy: “ I regard
the explanation as very unsatisfactory.” — Com-
Elication about James Stocks, J.P., of Lismore,
aving, some time back, granted a search warrant,
and then, whilst the constable was in the act of
executing it, demanding it back and tearing his
signature off from it. Minister of Justice Innes
(’twas in ’81) couldn’t solve the difficulty. Parlia-
mentary return just to hand tells the story, leaving
the impression that the case is still on the stocks.
The Manning and Clarence districts will experi-
ence a revival in the sugar-growing industry next
spring, a large amount of capital having been pro-
mised for an extensive project in that direction —
In some districts of N.S.W. the bonus offered for
dingo scalps is only Is. 6d. per scalp. In Victoria
(in some districts, at least) £3 a scalp is offered. At
£3 a scalp it would pay to organise a party for the
destruction of the cuss, whereas, at Is. 6d., all that
can be hoped for, is a desultory pot-shot at him—
Licensee of Theatre Royal Cam, Melbourne, fined
last week for selling inferior brandy as Hennessy’s.
Six feet six seam of coal discovered last week
near Lake Macquarie by diamond drill No. 5, at a
depth of 503 feet The Christchurch (N.Z.) dia-
monds won’t bear the lead lap test. They rub
away like glass Sydney City Solicitor recom-
mends discontinuance of the steam roller in the
streets, owing to the decision of the Supreme
Court in Mrs. Toohey’s case that the running of
steam motors was illegal From the Northern
Standard:—“ Whose portrait’s that in the win-
dow ?” a maa asked, walking into a shop in Flin-
ders-street. “Archibald Forbes’,” the attendant
answered! “Oh, him!” growled the customer; “I
thought as maybe it was one of the Phcenix Park
fellows. I’d have bought one, if it was.”
Dr. M’Donald, of Sale, Gippsland, who in ’79 cap-
tured two armed bushrangers, was tostimonialised
therefor last week. And the Victorians deem
themselves fast! Premier Stuart will help the
new Geographical Society when it's crystallised
into a working position, and shows some results of
its labours At the request of the Yass District
School Board, the Minister has given instructions
that the aboriginal and half-caste children for-
merly attending the Yass Public school are hence-
forth to bo refused admission. The idea of the
Public school system being a solvent of race, etc.,
doesn't seem to be entertained by the Yassites
Juries have latterly received some terse and sar-
castic criticisms from the Bench regarding several
of their findings. How would it be if they returned
an adverse verdict where judicial rent was at
stake? — The new electric light at Sydney Heads
is visible at least 45 miles off at sea.
• • •
A skilful American surgeon owning a cow
one of whose hind legs was cut in twain by a rail-
road train, amputated the limb at the knee joint,
healed the wound, and supplied the animal with a
wooden leg, on which she is said to stump around
quite comfortably Lord Ashburnham offered
his manuscripts to the French and English Govern-
ments simultaneously, figure £160,000.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
The news agent who uses a seal “Standard.
W, and T. A.” Is requested to furnish his name and
address “Ora”: No, an oyster is allowed to open
on Sunday; a publican isn’t “A.R.R.” (Monkitte):
Did not receive it. ..“A.T.L.” (Hobart): You are
in error. The matter was referred to. ..“J.W.”:
No, but Captain Pat Connolly, of Balmain, has res-
cued over 40 persons from drowing up to the pre-
sent date, and all he has received for his trouble is
about 40 first-class soakings and a silver medal.. .
“ Yum”: Thanks. ...“R.L.”: Might be considered
blasphemous “L.E.W.”: John L. Sullivan, we
believe, is about 34... “Well-Wisher”: Many
thanks. Always glad to hear from you — “ E. W.
Barrett ’ ’: It’s a pity you didn’t think a little before
wi’iting in heroics about the bravery of Mr. Isaac
Harding, gunner of the Alexandra. Isaac, as you
remark, and as we have often heard, ” took up a
live shell, put it in a tub of water, and prevented
its bursting.” That is all mere bunkum. Harding
was no doubt a plucky man, or he’d not have
touched the shell at all. But he was undoubtedly
a stupid man. The shell must have been a bad one,
or it would have burst all the same. Just as a
charge of dynamite explodes oven though tamped
with water, so a properly-filled shell will burst,
whether in or out of water, the moment the fuse
burns down, and you can’t put out the fuse by
throwing it into water “ Cornstalk ”; Foley was
bom on the Turon river “Bethunga”: The
lines, entitled “ Leichhardt’s Grave,” were written
by the great explorer’s companion, Lieutenant
Lynd, after whom the Lynd river in Northern
Queensland is named...“Xerxes”: We are aware
that the editor of the Liberal recommends
donkey-flesh as good food, but we don’t know
whether, like the pelican, he has been dining off
himself “C.H.S. ; Thanks. Everyone knows
David Gaunson, who, by the way, is a Sydney
native. Write about somebody whose name is
“topical.” “J.W.K.”: Yes, the Age and Mel-
bourne Punch express—the one with dignity, with
piquancy the other—a comprehensive acquaint-
ance with Celtic affairs. They both view with
sympathy the struggle of a few millions of people
to obtain something more nourishing than turnip-
tops and nettles to live upon during the hard
winters, and they both but why spin the matter
out?. ..“J.W.”: Excellent “J.M.”: Yes, very
acceptable indeed. Please call “Enquirer”:
Burned in either case — “Gold Pen”: £30—“A
Very Old Philosopher”: Thanks—“Viola”: Your
communications welcome—“ Kubla Khan Too
Spoopendyklsh “Nihil Sub Sole Novi”: 2388
years ago—long, in fact, before even the last
Echo’s jokes were first told—one Aristophanes,
who was the Lewis Scott, or “ komik pote ” of his
day, made one of his characters remark (trans-
lation free): “ Most assuredly my master is a
gentleman, as all he knows how to do is to drink
and run after the girls.” And now a cabby has
deposed on oath he knew a certain party to be a
gentleman, because “ he always wears a bell-
topper and gets drunk.” “Hal.”: A letter
takes four weeks to reach San Francisco, whence
there is a fortnightly steamer to Puget Sound
“C.E.Y.” : Yes; but if the Postmaster-General
doesn’t wish to see grave telegraphic secrets di-
vulged, he shouldn’t allow loan-office sharks and
others to visit the operating-roomJ.F.” (Goul-
burn) : The verse was splendid,but modesty forbade
“ Y.S. Williams”: You must recollect that New
South Wales is the only colony in which Govern-
ment has allowed an undiplomaed, and for all any-
body knows, an otherwise unqualified medical
Eractitioner, to take full charge of a lunatic asylum,
ook up last number of the Australian Medical
Gazette “Theatre Royal” : Considering that
she voluntarily entered the asylum to get rid of
the passion which had overcome her, we regard
the publication by the newspapers of her name in
the matter of her Supreme Court application for
Sermission to leave, as most heartless... “ Jobuz ”:
ext issue “XIX”: To hand “C.H.E.”;
Thanks. Where’s “Mick O’Reilly?” “Stock-
ship”: Fine. Next week....“ J.H.”: Being our-
selves distantly related to the Duke of Woolloo-
mooloo, we’re always glad to see long-winded pedi-
grees in marriage advertisements. Such procla-
mations conclusively prove that the people have
no poor relations—“J.C.”: Thank you; excuse a
little embroidery, our readers insist on it
“ H.F.C. ’: You can neither rhyme, spell, nor write
grammar... “Box”: Wordy; no new ideas—
“ W.H.B.”; Crude; we might polish off the pretty
thoughts though....“ G.G.G.”: Yes, when suitable.
“D.L.D.”: Yes, do so—“H. Weingarth.”:
Your par. would bo quite meaningless in present
shape “Gertrude . Don’t recollect your
“Colonial jotting;” but as you “didn’t even have
time to read it” after writing, most probably we
“hadn’t time to read it” either—“A.C.”: Good
information “Jugget Seit”: Will consider—
“W. Apsoy”: Next week, probably “W.
Hogan”: You had better write to Mr. Frederick
Earle, barrister, Auckland, New Zealand. If you
want to find Mr. Cubitt, address a letter to him at
Sydney G.P.O “P.A.W.”: Thanks, shortened.
.... “ E.A.” (Milton): Already noticed.
We believe that a nephew of Mr. Costello,
the deceased Auckland millionaire, lives in West
Maitland.
A French lady, during the siege of Paris,
driven by famine to eat her pet dog, as she was fin-
ishing, exclaimed: “Poor thing! now he would
have enjoyed picking these bones!”
John Turner, official assignee of Beech-
worth, on Thursday last Avalked into a 13 ft. deep
channel—and died. Some fatality seems to follow
Australian official assignees. They are so often in
a hole.
A Sydney undertaker is himself dead.
And wo always thought undertakers were immor-
tal! We have often wondered how the hist man
living, when the world comes to an end, will bury
himself.
Peter Dunn, publican of Charters Towers,
says “Joseph Brady’s execution is the first that
has taken place in Dublin during the present cen-
tury, with the exception of Robert Emmett, in
1803.” Herein Dunn is inaccurate, since in 1813
Francis Tuite was executed at Dublin for the
murder of Mr. Goulding. Since 1813 no other re-
markable criminal has been executed in Dublin.
“Ignoramus,” in a recent letter to the
Herald attributed, “ Nothing is law that is not
reason,” to “one of our greatest legal sages (Lord
Raymond).” Now, as a matter of fact, ft was Sir
John Powell who used the expression as a para-
phrase of Coke’s “Reason is the life of the law; nay
the common law Itself is nothing else but reason.”
Powell’s form of Coke’s axiom is given in “ Coggs
versus Bernard, 3 Ld. Ragm. 911,” nenco the error
of “Ignoramus.”
The first auctioneer on Charters Towers
arrived before the era of coaches, on a horse team
driven by “fighting Dempsey,” who for a con-
sideration allowed his horses to be put in a yard
and sold as a consignment of draught stock from
N.S.W, Dempsey purchased each lot after spirited
competition (between himself and the auctioneer),
and thus Saturday’s regular horse sales in the
North became duly established.
We are indebted to Mr. T. L. Richardson,
of Murrawombil, Cannonbar, for a Normanton
telegram stating that Mr. Burne had found Mr.
Walter Clarke’s pack-saddle on the creek running
through Mr. Richardson’s newly-taken-up Montana
run. Other accounts to hand indicate the possibility
of Mr. Clarke’s remains being yet discovered. This,
as people will readily observe, by no means fits in
with the story told by Inspector Fitzgerald and his
troopers concerning poor Clarke’s alleged horrible
fate. The case of Mrs. Watson showed what little
reliance can be placed on the statements of abori-
ginals.
Our representative, travelling down South,
could not stop to write an account of Goulburn,
but the Public School Boy has sent along some-
thing. Here’s his screed :—“ Goulburn is a town
near the Governor’s Hill, with wide streets, two
cathedrals, two bishops, two gaols, one gallows,
and three sallow policemen. The x-iver is muddy
and dirty, but the best people are not baptised
there. There are five banks, and fifty clerks, which
has ever so many nurse-girls on the string. Some
of the bank-clerks are good fellows, but they
drink gingerbeei’. Goulburn has three papers—
the Goulburn Herald, which represents the re-
ligious dead ; the Southern Argus, which speaks
straight, and is liberal; and the Evening Post,
which ought to be called Every Other Evening
Post. This last paper is run by Noah, who came
down the Wollondilly in an ark. It’s said the
greatest villain in the country jvas gibbetted on
Governor’s Hill. This is only rumour. The
greatest villain in the country still goes to church
in Goulburn. The new gaol is much larger than
the old one. The old one was good enough when
there was only one newspaper and one church.
Our police eat cold mutton, like yours. When
there is no circus the people go to the Municipal
Council, but none of the aldermen have been
locked up. Goulburn has four burial grounds,
and each man pays so much to be put in. Which
will first hear the trump on the last day I don’t
know—perhaps none of them will hear it. Four
men own the country around our town. Goul-
burn is cold, and often has snow. There’s a lot of
holy men in our town, but their sons are promis-
ing. There are lots of balls and parties here some-
times. We had a marriage hexe three nights ago,
and the parson wanted to kiss the girl, but got laid
out. There are two or three scandals, but I can’t
remember them. AU X say is—this is not the New
Jerusalem.”
M'COY & CO. v. OSBORNE.
A Letter to the Clergy.
So, one of your God-praising sect
Has stumbled, in a sudden blindness,—
Has shown the new and strange defect
Of preaching Christian loving-kindness.
I warn ye, take this case in time,
Lest his backsliding taint the others—
Lest men be led into the crime
Of looking upon men as brothers.
A pretty state of things, indeed,
To find a pastor from his station
Half-hinting that another creed
Is not devoted to damnation!
Were this permitted, time might fuse
All creeds in one through ages later,
And Papists, Anglicans, and Jews
Might kneel as one, to one Creator.
A fearful thing to contemplate—
A risk to fight with bitter teaching;
For, were no difference to debate,
How ill would prosper Christian teaching!
If all the world should learn to know
Their souls were at an equal purchase.
How would your stipends cease to flow 1
How would ye fly your barren churches I
Not then would blind believers bring
To crowd your overladen tables
Full many a fatted offering
As welcome as of old were Abel’s;
Not then, as now, would ye rejoice
While half your wretched flock wore starving,
At well-spread banquets, full and choice,
Whereat the Devil does the carving.
Not then, as now. would Hatred’s steel
With kindred steel be crossed and broken;
Not then would Christ’s fair life appeal
To men as some unmeaning token;
Not then, as now, would brethren damn
Each others’ souls in language aptest;
The lion would not tear the lamb—
The Pope would tolerate the Baptist.
Then, where are now at least a score
Of Churches guiding men from error.
One with an unsectarian door
Could teach Love, without Hate or Terror.
Then would ye have no need to court
The strength of the opposing forces;
Then would the Sermon on the Mount
Bo held the best of all discourses.
Then might the world attain a day
When none were fools and none were scoffers:
When men their honest debts would pay,
And pass Religion’s gaping coffers;
When all the money yearly spent
On distant Missionary labours
Would go to pay the weekly rent
Or help some white-skinned next-door neigh-
bour's.
But, praise Jehovah! such device
As Osborne’s cannot mar your Zion,
While such a lamb of God as Price
Is standing sentry, with his eye on
The drawbridges of Faith, which shut
To bar meek Charity’s approaching
To Salvation’s footstep; but,
Above all these, to Rome’s encroaching.
Yet, strange it is, the sacred task
Of guarding Wesley’s fane from danger—
Of plucking off the Roman mask—
Has fallen on a partial stranger.
Did none among your members think
Of Smithfleld’s smoking sacrifices ?
’Tis sad to see good Wesleyans shrink
From utterance as strong as Price's.
Could none of ye relight the past.
And blare abroad the ghastly story
Of hideous murder, wide and vast.
That laddered Rome’s mediaeval glory ?
Could none of ye, in trumpet-tone,
Awake old stories half-forgotten.
Of Pontiffs reeling from the throne
To die diseased-demented—rotten ?
Could none be found to tell aloud
How Huss was hustled on to barter
His body for his soul—a crowd
Of hirelings by to fire the martyr ?
Could none tell how Jerome of Prague,
On the same stake, a short while after,
Died (though the accounts are something vague)
’Mid peals of brutal Popish laughter ?
Had ye no tongue, that Cranmer’s tale
Was not through all the land recited—
How the Reformers waxed not pale
When round him the curs’d fire was lighted '(
How he reached to the flame his hand
Prom the hot iron chair he sat in,
While men piled on the tar-soaked brand,
And several friars cursed in Latin ?
What about Piedmont—not a word
Of how the Waldenses were harried ?
Such reticence is most absurd—
A tale like this had surely carried
Some seed that would bear early crop
Of hate to Rome—the which to foment
Is certainly the crown and top
Of your endeavour at this moment.
A yarn that suits shaved upper-lips.
And porpoise-bellies, fair and ample.
Is how the loan-iawed Roman “ rips ”
Set on their Hounds of Hell to trample
O'er crag and vale. ’Tis known as truth
Hojv Savoy’s Duke and Turin’s bullies
Cut out the Intestines of the youth
And chucked their parents down the gullies.
Why not have Introduced that tale,
For this occasion 'twould be rdgal
(Foxe tells it—Foxe did have a sale),
Of Arragon and M. Do Legal ?
The French had stormed the wallud town.
And entered at the breach, with loss of
Few men—a deed of some renown—
(De Legal all the troops was boss of)—
He burst the Inquisition up,
Amid the Jesuits’ angry curses.
And took each cruelttx and cup.
And made them empty all their purses.
Then ran them out the city gates,
And stationed sentries in the passes.
And in their den (the best thing waits)
He found—well, sixty tidy lasses.
These would have been the things to say
To counteract the heavy evil
Which Osborne works in simplest way
Against Religion and the Devil.
My Christian friends, ye have not well,
I fear me, learnt your Christian duty.
Or ’twere not left for Price to tell
How Rome is straddled by Auld Clootie.
Arouse I Let Danger’s tocsin ring,
And strive this latest birth to smother:
You’ll find it a disastrous thing
If men start loving one another.
These are not as the days of old,
Which fattened lazy, hooded Doctors;
Men don’t believe one-half they’re fold—
The world grows far too many Proctors.
’Tis bad enough when Science starts
Across your path, a prowling lion;
But worse, when men who know your hearts
Renounce the tenets of your Zion,
Ye cannot silence, in this age.
Denying tongues in styles as neat as
The maniac Calvin, in his rage,
Extinguished poor, ill-starred Sorvetus.
In these times, you must take your chance—
In far-off days, you had your innings,
When lights that now as suns advance
Were only gradual dim beginnings.
You’re slowly going, and your reign
Will pave the way to something grander,
But still ye may some tithe regain
Of power, through Christian hate and slander.
So, do your utmost, Christian friends
To prove that Rome should be forsaken;
Let Rome drift to all wicked ends,
And save your Own especial bacon.
No Providence assists you now—
Men don’t respect the hue your coat is;
And when an Osborne leaves your plough.
The Lord don’t take a bit of notice!


PERSONAL ITEMS.
The hugest of satires for South Australians
is, that while the chairman of the Associated En-
gineers has just proclaimed Morgan a humbug and
so on, the Imperial Government have given him
the right to style himself “ Sir William.”
A place of honour should be reserved at
the Albury railway chavoo for Boyd, the first
white man who crossed the Murray. Boyd and
Angoll are the two sole survivors of the eight who
formed the Hume and Hovell exploration party in
’31. Boyd lives near Tumut, Angoll near Wagga.
The other day a young Victorian scape-
grace eloped to New Zealand with a married
woman. His female relatives wrote to him re-
proachfully, and abused the fair frail one. He
replied thus: “If you cannot write more respect-
fully of my wife, you need not write at all to your
affectionate brother .”
Once upon a time, when the gentleman now
known to fame as Mr. A. G. Taylor, M.L.A., was a
Erivate in the N.S.W. Permanent Artillery, he made
is appearance in the ranks with a pair of boots
each something under 38 inches long. “Private
Taylor!” remarked the commanding officer, “you
will please not appear again on parade with such
boots.” Next time, the festive A.G. showed up it
was in his bare feet. [This joke was in the first
patent medicine almanac— Ed. B.[
The men of the modern intellectual Oxford
school seldom seem to live beyond fifty. Mr.
Toynbee, an eminent scholar, fellow and bursar
of Baliol College, has just dropped out at thirty.
Green, the historian, died at forty-five. The Ox-
ford public orator, a very brilliant man, died a
year or two since, under forty; Professor Smith, a
few weeks ago, in his prime. They exhaust them-
selves in their teens. Meanwhile, Newman and
Manning are still living, and Pusey died at eighty-
two. Sladen, B.A., will probably live for ever.
Gambetta was a writer who didn’t know
when to stop, once he started. He would tell the
editor that he was going to run him off half a
column, and then he’d sit down to do it. With a
jerky hand he covered the slips, sipped strong
coffee, ran his hand through his hair, and called
for wine. Taking a few mouthfuls, he’d go on,
and the editor, who dared not stop him, watched
with apprehension the slips increase till article
after article, and column on column was swept
away, and then, with a hearty “Ouf!” the great
Frenchman would suddenly stop, and leaning back,
say cheerfully, “There, I think those few lines will
state our case plainly.” And the mad editor would
go away and make room for Garnbetta’s five
columns.
MILLER.
Yes, he does look operatic and Italian, as you say;
If he were, he’d give the chest notes with a gusto,
by the way.
No! dear boy, that man’s an athlete and a boxer
most renowned,
For the Sydney crack who faced him had last week
to kiss the ground.
Oh, he fairly won the contest, but they “faked”
the thing a draw,
And the talent execrate him, for he doesn’t break
the law.
Yes, he is a rara avis, perhaps the only one you’ll
find
Who displays a perfect science with gentility com-
bined.
The premature death of Mr. Ashton Went-
worth Dilke, late member for Newcastle-on-Tyne,
in his thirty-third year, is one of the saddest events
recent mails have recorded. He was universally
looked upon as one of the rising young men
of our day. Every day began for him with his
paper, the Weekly Dispatch: his appetite for
work was insatiable, and he spared neither time,
money, nor cruelly-hard toil to raise his journal
to the high position it justly occupies—that of
being the best and most accurately informed
weekly paper published in England. He paid the
penalty in shattered health and an early grave.
The late John Thomson, the genial and popular
dramatic critic of the Dispatch, who preceded
his master and friend, foretold his death when on
his own death-bed, Christmas Eve, 1879.
In the recently published letters of Carlyle
and Emerson occurs the following description of
Tennvson by Carlyle:—“Alfred is one of the few
British or foreign figures who are and remain
beautiful to me: a true human soul, or some
authentic approximation thereto, to whom your
own soul can say, brother V man solitary
and sad as certain men are, dwelling in an element
of gloom. . . . One of the finest looking men
in the world—a great shock of rough, dusty, dark
hair; bright laughing eyes; massive aquiline face,
most massive, yet most delicate; of sallow brown
complexion, almost Indian looking; clothes cyni-
cally loose, free and easy; smokes infinite tobacco;
his voice is musical metallic, fit for loud laughter
and piercing wail and all that may lie between;
speech and speculation free and plenteous. I do
not meet, in these late decades, such company
over a pipe.”
It is not generally known that Captain
Carey, who was accused of cowardice in abandon-
ing the late Prince Imperial in his hour of peril,
and who recently died or a broken spirit at Kurra-
chee, India, was a nephew of Brigadier-General
Jackson Carey, who some years ago was Acting-
Governor of Victoria. Captain Carey came of a
Guernsey family which produced many galiant
soldiers and sailors. A few months after he en-
tered the service he distinguished himself in an
expedition against the Indians of Yucatan. When
his first regiment, the Third West Indian, broke
up, he gained further distinction in the Franco-
Prussian war, doing duty with an ambulance at
Tours, where he was thrice taken prisoner. At the
close of the war the French society of Secours aux
messes awarded him ttie cross, the ribbon, and the
diploma of merit. He subsequently passed with
high honours through the severe examinations of
the Staff College, and as a certificated graduate
went out to South Africa for duty with the intelli-
gence department, when the misfortune came
which clouded his career.
Here is the very latest: “I am told on
excellfint authority that Freddie Gebhardt is to
marry Mrs. Langtry. He has already begun to
make disposition of his worldly goods, and has
acted so strangely that nothing he can now do will
excite remark. His magnificent stable has all run
to seed, he has given up his shooting-box up the
river, ho no longer hunts with the Essex County
Hounds, he has cut the Knickerbocker Club, is
rarely seen at Delraonico’s, and actually has only
one object in life, and that is to be near Mrs.
Langtry. I said many months ago, when lie first
began to follow her around the country, that the
reports about his Intimacy with her wore un-
founded, and that he was really in love with the
woman. I believe that such is the ease yet, and
that he would marry her to-morrow if ho had an
opportunity; In all probability she will have little
or no difficulty in securing a divorce from her hus-
band, as he has not supported her for some years,
and, when that is achieved, all obstacles to her
marriage with Freddie will have been removed.
It is not likely that Mrs. Langtry will give up the
stage, even if she marries Gebhardt, for she has a
strong passion for acting, and, with some experi-
ence, will undoubtedly make a fair comedy actress.
Gebhardt is still young, though a man of the
A SPORTING ITEM.


The Furniture Column.
PARTIES about furnishing- should not fall to
take advantage of the present opportunity
£°° h “ “ u8 * be made for shipments of goods already
m the harbour and to arrive. Further reductions
have been made, especially in the prices of Austrian
Furniture. For example:—
Revolving Office Chairs, that used to be £1 17s lid
are now £1 bis. 6d. •
Chairs, that used to be £1 15s. are now
Mu 188 6d° 0lS ’ that USed to be £1 to- 6d. are now
Arm Chairs, that used to be £1 Is. are now 17s. tid
Rocking Chairs, that used to be £3 3s. are uow
XiL loS. OQ.
Settees, that used to be £3 5s. are now £8 3s
Rocking Chairs, that used to be 18s. 6d.are now 15s
Tourists Chairs, that used to be 13s. 6d. are now
Os. 6d. and so on, the reductions in this class of
furniture being 31 in number.
THE LOWEST NET CASH PRICE PLACED
UPON EVERYTHING.
Drawing-room Suites, £0 10s, £8 16s. £11 10s £14
l"t r ) £40 108 ’ iUS ’ 108 ’ £30,
Din £^' r ffl 1 0a S £40 S ’ M m ’ £ ® 1581 £11109 ’ m 10s -
Dining-room Oval Centre Tables, £110s. £1 15s £a
15s, £4 4s, £4 10s, £4 15s, £5, &c ’ ’
B01 £34 10s anO8 ’ reUdy packed for the country,
Harmoniums £8 15s.
Upholstered Music Stools, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 31s, 35s 35s
Pier Glasses and Mirrors, 17s 6d, 35s, £3 3s, £‘3 bis £3
bfe; £3 15s, £4, £4 5s, £5 15s, £6, £7 7s, £10 10s to
BEDROOM FURNITURE, CHEAP
Bedsteads, about 60 samples to select from A
nice assorted lot of black and gold, with brass
and extending foptralS, splendid value!
£4 10s. Prices from £16 to £16.
Children’s Cots, Canvas and Iron Stretchers.
All kinds of Bedding, Palliasses from 9s 6d nair
Mattresses, from 9s 6d to £6 10s. ’
4ft. 6in. Spiral Spring Mattresses, £T 7s 6d.
4ft. 6in. Patent Wire-woven Mattresses £3
Chests of Drawers, from £3.
Toilet pairs, £115s, £315s, £3 15s, &c.
Polished Wardrobes from £410s.
Wo will now, for example, take an extract from
our Furnishing Guide. List No. 3 roads as follows •
For the sum of JB35 prompt net cash, '
You oau Furnish a House as follows •
PARLOUR.
Bound or Oval Claw Table
Chetfonler
Austrian Suite, consisting of Couch, two
arm chairs, and six small chairs
Pier glass
Cormce pole, with rings, curtain pins and
brackets
Clock
Pair lustres
Lamp
Fender and irons **,
Tapestry hearthrug
Matting for room
BEDROOM, No. 1.
Four-post bedstead, with head and foot-
rails ...
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Two feather pillows .
Chest of drawers
Towel-rail, washstaud and toilet set
Rocking chair
Toilet table
Toilet glass
C. S. Chair
Table toilets
Matting "
BEDROOM, No. 3.
Single bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Chair
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Matting ...
KITCHEN.
Pine safe
Pine table
Two chairs
Six meat plates
Six pudding plates
Six cheese plates .
Meat dishes, Is 3d, Is 9d, 3s 3d
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Set jugs
Six china cups and saucers
Six china plates
China sugar basin
China butter dish
China milk jug
China slop basin
Six china egg cups
Pair salt cellars
Six cut tumblers
Six cut wines
Six knives and forks ...
Two table spoons
Six dessert spoons
Six tea spoons
Kettle
Boiler
Saucepans, Is 9d, 3s, 4s ...
Frying pan
Gridiron
Tea pot !
Tea caddy
Coffee pot
Wash basin
Tubs, 4s, 5s •"
Bucket
Dipper
Colander
Two candlesticks...
Baking dishes, 8d, lOd ...
Pepper caster
Nutmeg grater
Kitchen spoon
Hair broom
Washboard
Pair Hat irons
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish!!!
Pair bellows
Set shoe brushes ... !"
Hand brush..
Dust pan
»
4
13
3
7
3
3
13
7
5
3
3
1
5
5
1
3
4
3
3
3
1
1
1
1
3
3
10
3
5
3
4
9
8
1
1
3
1
1
3
9
3
1
1
1
1
6
6
0
0
6
6
6
6
6
0
6
0
6
3
0
0
6
3
3
9
0
9
0
6
6
6
0
0
0
0
3
6
0
9
6
6
0
0
6
0
0
0
0
6
6
6
6
3
6
6
6
6
3
0
6
6
0
3
£35 0
observe that in this Us
Thi£ i te ha8been introduced at £5 5s 6c
fiuHvf . throu ,gh the late reduction:
of isefuSrtlcre" 11^16 for the P ui ’ c1^8
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
420 bEUUGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
TYPHOID FEVER is prevalent, and every pre
caution should be taken to avoid pnntno'inn
MAGIC FRENCH POLISH REVIVERTa"
well be recommended to every household. Its use
w a ? d Preserves furniture, restor
mg the polish m its lormer brightness, but impart)
to the room a clean and wholesome smell wliicl
di^ie. SU |ricer^ a 6dl ed “ anta^onistlc to any sucl
_ . CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
r R0Y^ L BURNISHING ARcIdE.
436 George-street, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel,
world, and quite fool enough to marry the charm-
ing English actress. He could not make a worse
move, however. Ho has everything to lose, and
nothing to gain except the woman. But, then, she
is the woman who half crazed the Prince of Wales,
and has kept two continents talking for years.
She cannot be quite commonplace, after all. May-
be Gebhardt will go on the stage himself. I should
like to see him as Romeo.” This is simply a
beautiful yarn.
Lady Florence Dixie, says the S. F. News-
letter, has been admired not so much for her
feminine qualities as for her pluck and energy. In
fact, she has hardly any feminine qualities to speak
of. She talks, looks, dresses, and generally con-
ducts herself like a man, keeping her hair cut
short iike one, and when on horseback sitting
astride. She is only twenty-eight years old, and is
more striking-looking than pretty. Her brother,
the Marquis of Queensberry, is an eccentric char-
acter. Her father was the noble prize-lighter who
established the well-known “ Queensberry rules ”
for the government of the ring; and her sister.
Lady Gertrude Douglas, it was who the other day
distinguished herself by marrying a young
baker ; while her husband. Sir Beaumont
Dixie, a Leicestershire Baronet, who is but
four years older than herself, is seemingly
young enough to be pleased at the notoriety of his
wife, so ttoat she hasn’t much encouragement to
act like a lady had she the natural inclination to do
so. We can understand the indifferenfce of an
easy-going husband towards small tokens of
masculinity shown by his wife, such as smoking
and carrying a cane, but we can have but one
opinion of a man who lets his wife not only don as
many of the outward habiliments of the opposite
sex as the law will permit, but allows her to dis-
card, with the single exception of corsets, every
sort and description of female underclothing.
Sir John Bennett, the great Cheapside
watchmaker, is one of the notables of London, and
one of the greatest advertisers anywhere. With
snowy hair, splendid frame, and peculiar in dress
strangers at once want to know who he is. A Free-
thinker with prodigiously strong faiths, Sir John
holds that, in both politics and society, no truth
can be blamed or shamed, that nothing should be
hushed up, and that it is the duty of every honest
Englishmen to expose cant and humbug whenever
he finds them. This secures John plenty of good
hearty enemies. It has prevented him ever becom-
ing Mayor of London, though he has long been an
alderman, and director of countless companies
Ho has quite a hobby for trying to put a stop to
the civic and official guzzling which is carried on
and paid for out of the fortunes left by charitable
men for benevolent uses. Thrice he has been
almost Mayor, and the cause of his last defeat is
worth recording. Sir John had at last lost patience
at continually seeing the heritage of orphans de-
voured at civic feeds of councils, city companies,
mid guilds, and he devised a plan to bring the
blush of shame to the devourers’ cheeks. It was
to get himself elected chairman of a projected ban-
quet to an illustrious guzzler, who had conde-
scended to become a member of a citv company
Then ho would gather all the fatherless, ill-fed!
unclothed ragamuffins from the back lanes, who
should have been fed, clothed, and schooled with
the money appropriated for banquets and gold and
silver plate for worthy chairmen. When the guests
of the evening came, he would put forward the
ragged array of waifs to receive him in their capa-
city of hosts—for it was their money paid for the
entertainment —and would say: “ Can we, without
shame, stuff ourselves with luxuries at the expense
of these famished youngsters, for whose benefit
the funds we squander on feasting and caskets
were left by humane people ?” But the plan got
wind, and bir John was neither made chairman of
tfio feed nor Mayor of the city. His colleagues
thought he would be carrying honesty too dis-
gustingly far! If the Cheapside knight were here,
we might hear less of Infirmary banquets, and
chicken-cwm-tram-ticket squabbles at Randwick.
In the opinion of most Queenslanders, the
eighth wonder of the world is Groom, the Mayor
and Parliamentary representative of Toowoomba,
Q. borne two and twenty years ago—and no mag-
nanimous opponent will go farther back than that
m the political career of this phenomenon—he
emerged from obscurity into notoriety by means
peculiarly his own. A series of anonymous letters
Imd appeared in the press, attacking the deepest
interests of the district he now represents. Groom
valiantly took the field against the nameless scribe,
routed him at all points, and forced him to own
that he had been overmatched in the conflict. It
leaked out, years afterwards, that the correspond-
ence had been a bogus one, and that the unknown
assailant and his gallant refuter were identical—
were what Mrs. Malaprop would call “two gentle-
men in one. However, the electors, while their
gratitude was at boiling point, sent their village
Hampden into Parliament, where he has repre-
sented them ever since. Twenty years of public life
have made him a most successful platform speaker*,
and an adept at that kind of oratorical jugglery
which enables a man to speak for two hours and
say nothing, and still leave the impression on his
audience that he has said a great deal. His model
statesman is our own Sir Henry, whom he imitates
in every particular—even to the boycotting of the
letter H. His politics are of the Vicar of Bray
type—only a little more “accommodating.” He
nas been at one time a zealous supporter, at an-
other a violent opponent, of nearly every Ministry
that has, held office in the colony. The only party
to whose interests he has been uniformly and
rigorously faithful is himself. No one had a larger
share in putting the present (M'llwraith) Ministry
into power, and no one is prepared to resort
to more desperate expedients to turn it out.
|t T ou i d be. easy to fill a column with ex-
tracts from his speeches containing the most
extravagant eulogies of the men to whom he is now
opposed, and the most bitter invectives against
the men with whom he is now associated. In fact,
we would be tempted to style him the Northern
John Davies only New South Wales people might
think we were a little too rough on Groom, and
Queensmnders might think we were a little too
rough on John Davies.
* * *
Tawhiao is about i o start on a twelve months!
tour. What a long drunk I — One of the very few
f*' 1 vwore of the Queensland native police contin-
gent sent to Victoria to assist in the capture of the
aeny gang, is Barney Mileson, now residing on
Iraser s Island. . ..Private letters state that Love-
the Waikato (N.Z.) claimant for the Der-
weiitwater estates, has been recognised by his
mother, though absent 30 years... .The Rev. John
thP 18 a native of Wollongong, and entered
e Wesleyan Church in 1866. He was a missionary
at Samoa, then at Rotumah, and he has ministered
at Adelong, Yass, Newtown, and Newcastle. He
is rugged, thoughtful, and bold.. ..John D. Wyse-
of Western District, has
tSo' £;&,0(X) to the Theological Hall, Vic-
C^W 0 Pl el^ te * Co i lege ’ £10 -^ u to Ormond
College, £5000 to Presbyterian Ladies’ College,
a ',V c l £30 P a year to the Wicklitfe con-
Medical Board decline to
register Rev. R. V. Danne on the strength of his
Philadelphia °* Medico-Chirurgical College of
* * *
The London World remarks: “Victor
18 about the only man in France who still
2 la i ly 8 baud instead of shaking it like a
pump handle. .. Mrs. Langtry sent the
hnvJ 3 b°es she wears in Rosalind to a shop in Pitts-
uAI, to be repaired. Some ladies at the Central
wj? 1 beard of it, and persuaded the shoemaker to
into Tvr m tl 7 the i n on. Only one of them could get
Langtry’s No. 4, although she Inis been
pbarged with having a beetle-crusher John
»tis Lord Rector of Glasgow University. He
dotfre P tC S invested with tbe hood, and received the
rohia ni 1 r LL-r K,.° n landing up to speak in his
,“r s ’ be found them cumbersome and hindering,
in!ur. ppe i ttn(1 took them off. This he did with
Vi- ‘tHjbo rat jOn* while the students struck up and
TdL *2 8 a Jolly good fellow.”.... A brougham,
aild a i rl( bug-horse were always at John
at wo,a disposal. He had his own suite of rooms
L w 0 !' Osborne, Balmoral; a separate table
was Kept for him, and he was waited on by obse-
Fb. 10 ni S /*i’ vants specially appointed to his service.
«o hud the exclusive right of shooting in the ex-
covers on the Osborne estate;
ae could shoot at Windsor and at Balmoral when
disposed; and tfie salmon fishing on the Queen’s
water on the Doe was also under his dominion
t he recentiy published volume, “ Vagabunduli
Libcllus, is not by Julian Thomas, but by J A
Symonds . Laboulaye, the French jurist, died last
mnnti,'’' A^ er u 0f £ lr John Franklin died last
month, aged 90; Mrs. Craycroft spent most of hex
fortune in the search for her gallant brother. . J
K. Green, the historian, has left a posthumous
.-* he Making of England,” which
Wawidow Will edit and publish.... Frank Miles, the
Kfl spotted ” the Lily, has been pub-
lishing a further series of sketches of lovely faces
ft is said that Madame Ldonie, Gambetta’s
relict, or whatever she was, Intends to publish all
the mass of his correspondence she holds, which
will compromise all sorts of people in upper circles.
— Mane Collumbler, Bernhardt's quondam com-
panion, is bringing out a spicy brochure, of which
a paper observes It opens to us all the mysterious
doors of the realms of love. There is a golden
prospect for the public. Zolaism reaches its high-
est piquancy when a woman comes forward as the
priestess of nastiness.” — The Pope is seventy-
with silvery hair in profusion, and eyes of
bright blue; and just as
You can’t go to heaven when you die
It you don’t wear a collar and a tie,
so you cannot see the Pope unless you go in a dress
w i i A rum °ur, originated in Belgium, has
lately been spread that the Prince of Wales’s
eldest son, Albert Victor, is intended to marry the
.Princess Clementine. He is nineteen, she only
eleven and an K.C. So that the rumour isn’t worth
The well-worn story of the 100-yards
foot-race between a fat man and a thin man,
wherm the former, who was allowed a start, out-
general Jed his opponent by selecting a very narrow
alley-way for the race, is going the rounds of the
press again, John Lucas and Mudgee Taylor being
made to do duty as principals to the yarn.
Quite recently in England one of the new
jacketed Palliser shot (which had been rejected as
insufficiently chilled) was fired at a 9-inch wrought
iron plate, placed erect against two timber props.
It was fired at by the 80-pounder gun, with 201b. of
pebble .P°wder, at a range of 70 yards, and with
a velocity of 1400 feet per second. The ribbed and
jacketed Palhser shot passed clean through the
plate unbroken, and Impressed Itself on a slanting
target in rear, leaving the impress of the ribs and
body of the shot on the plate 1
It is claimed that among the mountains of
Western Otago is the highest waterfall in the
world, that of the Arthur River, about 30 miles
from the head of Milford Souud, called after its
first explorer, Mr. Southern. It is said to be no
less than 5700 feet high, and takes the whole waters
of the Arthur River with it, making one almost
perpendicular leap of 3000 feet downwards at
starting. Is is only 30 feet broad at the first point
of its descent, and looks at a distance like a bright,
broad thread of water. The source is apparently
in some large glacier among mountains over 9000
feet high.
There is a Brook that’s said to flow
Quite calmly on for ever;
So we suppose all other brooks
Cling to the same endeavour!
With us there is one only Brook
That we think such a lot on;
That’s Brook who will flow on ever
With his Sewing-Cotton.*
The Wagga Express, the organ of a few
people of the glacial period, gave its readers de-
tailed information re the ceremonial at Alick’s
coronation—a fact which largely explains the
source of the Express leaders. According to
Hawkins, the ceremony was to be all chrism and
crumpets, with an occasional harangue from the
High Priest of thetMoscowas. In fact, the Wagga
man was so well informed he was able to announce
that Alick would on this occasion “kiss the
missus.” It appears, however, there was to be no
dynamite. How the people were to be dispersed
remains a mystery. Alick had probably to get his
groom to read them an Express leader.
Recreations of the Ancients. It is singular
that the dead poets never write across Styx.—
Virgil, 80 B.C—Thoughts that burn. Rejected
communications.— John Rogers, 1540 A.D No
intelligent lawyer will ever take the will for the
deed.— Lycurgus, 900 B.C.... In some savage coun-
tries, fat babies, when they die, are tried out by
their afflicted parents for lamp-oil. Thus ever &
“uman misery made light of.— Reykjavik Smjith,
1045 B.C— Rough on stockings. Passing citizen to
ms tellow—“ ‘ Boots blacked inside.’ Well, now!
There’s no satisfying these fashionable chaps, is
there?”— Balbrigqan O’Brien, 1733 A.D....Cus-
tomer: “Have you any first-class musical instru-
ments? Shopkeeper: “Yes, sir; best stock in
town, sir; can’t be beat.” Customer (turning to
go out): Can’t be beat, eh? Sorry; wanted a
drum.”— Hannibal, 330 B.C.
Joseph Sieg.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A fow months since, Joseph Sieg, fireman,
performed a deed of almost unparalleled heroism or
the Pennsylvania Railroad. While travelling 40
miles an hour, the furnace door of the engine flew
open, and the sudden heat drove Sieg and the
engineer hack. In a moment, a gust of wind shot
out, caught the woodwork of the car behind, and
tho front of the train became a sheet of fire. Six
hundred passengers were aboard, and there was
only one way to save them. Back on to tho
engine—through the choking smoke and searing
tongues of flame—straight through the midst of a
mimic hell—Sieg went, and reversed the levers-
Then, when the slowing of the engine allowed
get near, they found him, horribly charred,
in the water-tank still alive. He “passed under’
hnrSnS’ two afterwards; but the glory of his
heroic deed should never die.
heroe ® of Egypt, and drink to them,
warriors, scatheless, O think of them,
Splendid hyperbole pour on the name of them,
While true-titled heroes blush at the fame of them.
Poets, and painters, and preachers all vie to show
Out of Egyptian woes Albion’s name doth grow ;
Over her hecatomb angels of Christ rejoice.
And saints in His Paradise sing with approving
Better by far than the slaughter of savages,
Better by far than our civilized ravages,
I he creed Joseph Sieg handed down through de-
vouring flame— “
The saving of others—let his be the greatest fame.
Out of the station, with six hundred souls or more,
fulling, and hissing, and glare from the furnace-
door,
? beating strong In its mighty heart,
Away flies the tram, with brave Sieg to a tragic part.
Off through the prairie now, on through the dead
or
Flashing, and throbbing, and quivering—into sight,
wuwif ight—off like the hurricane rushing on
With thunder and flre-flashes, fast, faster crushing
Keep the fire going, mate; plenty of coal behind.
Lord, how she rips along r Thump I—“ That’s a
cow, you’ll find
“When we come down again. Now she can go,
I guess.
“The incline! Touch the screamer! This ain’t
so slow, I guess.”
Out of the fury of Hell with infernal glee,
Spreading his pinions strong in his ecstasy,
Faster than Sieg could dash on through the nether
night,
The Fire Fiend clave through the darkness his fiery
flight.
Down in the stoker’s place, there by the fire door,
Folded his flaming wings, shrieked as the flames
did pour
Out of the open door, fanned by the breath of him;
And Sieg was not there. Poor Joe I ’twas the death
of him.
Licking, and forking, and sheeting, and leaping
high,
Back on the tender, where Sieg and his mate stood
nigh,
Shrieked loud the Fire Fiend mad in his revelry,
While the men stood aghast in the glare of nis
devilry.
Only a moment.—Sieg thought of his living freight
Shrieking behind him in death-terror. Should he
wail
Crouching behind till ? G ood God I he is caught
in it,
His life for six hundred. His life? never thought
Back to his post through the flames, never mind-
ing them
Wreathing around him, and roasting, and blinding
him;
Shuts off the steam, pulls the burning train dead
up,
Then makes for the water, just holding his head
up.
Splendid devotion! let it be told of him,
Flre-conq’ring hero, how noble, how bold of him:
Write him up hero—a ma n, every inch of him—
The driver, Joe Sieg, who died at his post.
EXILE.
Tenterfleld, 28th February.
greater. on blowing than , on bitws—the
A ONE-SIDED COMPLIMENT.
So Mrs. Grampus, I am pug-nosed, red-faced, wrinkled, squint-eyed, and bald-headed,
am I ? ’
Mrs. Grampus (equal, as usual, to the occasion); I didn’t say as you looked like ’im, 1
said as ’e was the wery himage o’ you, and wot I says I sticks to.


W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
43 King Street, Sydney.
Armstrong’s Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Piles
Rapidly superseding all other modes of treatment.
For the CURE of HEMMERHOIDS, largely pre-
scribed by the Faculty. It improves the general
HEALTH, equalises the CIRCULATION, relieves
CONGESTION, stops BLEEDING, Pain, and Itch-
ing, in from 34 to 38 hours. Sold in bottles only, at
4s. (id. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 3s.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
Pills,
For the Cure of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,? alns in
the Side, Headache, Giddiness, Heartburn, Flatu-
lency, and Habitual Constipation. They give a
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary Organs
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver—and being
mild in their operation, promote Digestion, restore
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire System,
Price, Is., 3s., and 4s. 6d.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
in Combination with Dandelion and Potash.
‘ Recommended by the Highest Medical authority
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and Tonic.”
5s. 6d., 10s. 6d., Sis.
fW* Goods forwarded to all parts of the colonies,
and Price Lists sent post free.
160 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnoni’s.
T
O BFj DISPOSED OF BY SUB-
SCRIPTION
on the
ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
fiK nnn Pounds worth of f i r f)f)0
Jj!O,UUU Freehold Properties. =£//D, UUU
In 15,000 Shares op £1 Each:-
1st Prize, £8000—Hardwicke Estate, Yass, N.S.W.,
2700 Acres.
2nd Prize, £3000, Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
N.S.W.
3rd Prize, £,‘3000, “ St. Kilda House,” Goulburn, 15
Rooms (insured £1000).
4th Prize, £800, “ Two-storied House ” in Clifford-
street, Goulburn.
5th Prize, £400
Hth Prize, £150
7th Prize, £130
8th Prize, £130
9th Prize, £85
10th Prize, £75
11th Prize, £75
13th Prize, £75
13th Prize, £75
14th Prize, £25
15th Prize, £35
16th Prize, £35
The following gentlemen have consented to act as
Committee: —
J. T. GANNON Esq., M.L.A., Goulburn.
JOHN BADGERY, Esq., Sutton Forest.
A. M. BETTS, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
R. C. COOPER, Esq., Willeroo, Lake George,
JOHN DAVIDSON, Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn.
S. EMANUEL, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
S. MEYER, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
The DRAWING will take place in the Mechanics’
Institute, Goulburn, in the presence of the Com-
mittee, on 30th August next, and will be open to
the Shareholders.
For particulars see Prospectus, which may bo
had upon application to J. J. ROBERTS. Secre-
tary, Box 33, Post-ollice, Goulburn. Local Agents
11 be appointed in most of the principal Towns of
wi
N.S.W,
Send Stamp for Prospectus.
o
02
m
%
m
THE “GREAT BONANZA” CLUB CONSUL-
TATION
on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To be run about the end of October.
Capital £7500. Divided into 150,000 Shares at Is
each. 500 Prizes Guaranteed.
To be distributed as follows :—
First Horse .. .. £1000 | 10 Prizes of £100, £1000
Second Horse .. 500 I
Third Horse.. .. 350 1
Starters divide .. 500
Non-starters divide 250
21 Tickets for £1.
20 Prizes of £.50, £1000
40 Prizes of £25, £1000
100 Prizes of £10, £1000
300 Prizes of £5, £1000
Not less than 5 Tickets sent to
Send P.O. Order or Bank
ips
the £1. Exchange should also be added to cheques.
Please enclose 3d extra tor Membership Fee. No
charge for reply or result. Drawing will positively
take place on or before the 35th October, and will
be conducted before a Committee of Shareholders.
Tickets promptly sent by return post, and results
posted immediately after drawing. Prospectuses
forwarded. Enclose an addressed envelope un-
stamped.
Address: “Bonanza,” care of J. Thomas, 36
Swanston-street, Melbourne.
J" LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Mann-
er • facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
heads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Haiti
lapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPEESS WAGGONS.
first-class work only imported.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 C/arence-st. ,
SYDNEY.
p. It. LARKITtf,
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Beirs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department,
the quality, au<l by ohmAv* ‘ Shl “ ‘
o
PER
H O U S
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A, T. Dunning.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
INCREASING ]
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
6th WEEK
6th WEEK
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
I ENTHUSIASM.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
MANOLA.
BALLET OF NATIONS!
BALLET OF NATIONS!
BALLET OF NATIONS!
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle, 5e.; Stalls, 3s.; Pit, Is.
Bex plan at Huenerbien’s Music Warehouse,
George-street, where seats may be secured fpr any
date in advance. Stalls and Pit tickets obtainable
at Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallipax.
THEATRE ROYAL—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrovh.
Tremendour Success of Bland Holt’s Novelty
MANKIND.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
at a quarter to 8, and terminating before 11 o clock,
Mankind i mankind i mankind i
Characters by Mr Alfred Dampikr, Miss Blanche
Stammers, and Holt’s specially-selected Company.
iger for Mr. Holt, W. H. Skaorave.
Business-Manager
G
LEBE BOWING CLUB
FOURTH ANNUAL
Plain & Fancy Dress Ball,
will be held In the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
FRIDAY, 8th JUNE.
Under the patronage of
SIR G. W. ALLEN, M.L.A., President ;
W. Carey, J.P.: T. J. Chapman. J.P.; J. Young,
J.P.; and G. W. Tate, Esqs., Vice-Presidents;
The Mayor and Aldermen of the Glebe.
Tickets may be obtained from the following
members of committee : —Messre. G. W. Tate, T. H.
Sapsford, W. Benson, G. Paddle, S. A. Lee, J.
Doutty. R. A. Daly, G. W. Durrell, W. Brown, F.
Williams, E. Haslingden, A. Ickerson, R. I air-
weather, H. Cox, J. Sullivan, S. J. Bull, F. J.
Bull, W. Bull, Jun., E. P. Mayes. G. Robertson,
R. Smith, J. Harpur, R, Sanders, R. Spalding, R.
Shute.
R. SHUTE, Hon. Sec.
F. C. WILLIAMS, Hon. Treasurer.
S
YDNEY OWL CLUB
Second Annual Ball
(Plain and Fancy Dress),
TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, 14th JUNE, 1883,
Tickets—Double, 30s.; Ladles, 15s.; Gentlemen, 21s.
Can be procured by members or their friends
from the Executive Committee,
Mr. J. Caddy, President, 37 Sussex-street
T. L. Clarke, Vice-President, F. Lassetter & Co-
W. Stewart, Hon. Treasurer, Pitt-street
Morris Menser, Hon. Secretary, 384 George-
street
Walter Blrohall, Eldred and Co., Margaret-
street.
M
ERCANTILE ROWING CLUB BALL.
The Eighth Annual Ball
will be held in the
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
Prince Alfred Park,
On THURSDAY, 21st JUNE NEXT.
Dress—Plain and Fancy.
Tickets obtainable from the Stewards, Commit-
tee, and the following shops :—Messrs. E. Cantor,
Parmer and Co.. J. B. Holdsworth, F. Lassetter
and Co., W. H. Paling, Elvy and Co., Peapes and
Shaw, J. Ellercamp, and Searle and Sons.
Double Tickets, 30s.; Gentlemen, 20s.; Ladles,
128. 6d.
D. MURRAY, ( Joint
W. A. BLACKSTONE, ( Hon. Secs.
THE BRIDGE ESTATE.
57 MAGNIFICENT SITES.
SPLENDID DEEP WATER FRONTAGES,
BALMAIN, BALMAIN,
overlooking
the HARBOUR, PARRAMATTA, and LANE
COVE RIVERS,
to the LONG C COVE BRIDGE,
within 5 minutes’ easy walk
of the DRY DOCK and BALD ROCK FERRIES,
and
only 10 MINUTES’ JOURNEY from the CITY.
TERMS EXCEEDINGLY LIBERAL.
T&T Admirable Sites for MECHANICS’ and
ARTISANS’ HOMES.
TITLE FREEHOLD, but TORRENS ACT
TITLE will be GUARANTEED at SMALL COST,
per allotment, to purchasers, prior to the expira-
tion of TERMS.
B
ATT, ROOD, and PURVE8 have received in-
structions to sell by public auction,
ON THE GROUND,
on
NEXT SATURDAY, , 9th JUNE, at 3 p.m.
T0T The BRIDGE ESTATE, BALMAIN.
Che FRONTAGES range from 12 to 36 feet,while
ne of the DEPTHS are less than 80 feet, and
ige as high as 217 feet fronting MARGARET-
REET, TERRY-STREET, and the DEEP waters
LONG COVE.
The land adjoins the CHEMICAL WORKS, and
opposite the GLASS WORKS of Messrs.
LTOTT, BROTHERS, close to DICKSON and
INS’ TIMBER YARD, near the DARLING-
i’REET PUBLIC SCHOOL, within 5 minutes of
ic Bald Rock and Dry Dock Ferries, while only a
one’s throw from the spot where
THE NEW FERRY WILL BE.
vsr Note the LIBERAL TERMS,
viz.,
1st 10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT, balance by 8 equal
uarterly Instalments; interest, 6 per cent.
2nd. 10 PER CENT. DEPOSIT, 15 percent, in 3
lonths, balance at 1, 2, and 3 years; Interest 7 per
PLANS ready.
PECIAL BUSSES from the Rooms, corner George
and Margaret Streets, at 2 p.m.
PALE BRANDY.
Per Bottle,
s d
Gllbey’s very old Brandy, gold top • • • • f{ ®
Hennessy’s V.O. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. 0 0
■wi >- n oi '***' 5 (5
5 6
2s 3d and
Hennessy’s 3 Star (♦*♦)
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Palo
Fine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L.
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) ..
Martell’s Blue Label (*)
Flasks
, » •• •• •• •• •• **
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart 6s and
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (**♦)
Martell’s Very Old *** • •
Martell’s Old 5s and 4
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. ■ ■ •>
Flasks 2s 6d and 2
6 6
6 6
0
0
3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good
Better
Still Better
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart 6s and
No. 2, „ „ .. ..
No. 3, „ „ •• ••
No. 4, ,, ,, 3s and
Flasks Is 9d and
JAMAICA BUM.
PALE.
Very Finest
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks
2s 6d and
4 0
4 6
5 0
2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy
Ettamogah, red ..
„ Muscat
„ Reisling ..
FaUon’s Shiraz ..
99 99
quarts 2 6
„ 2 6
„ 2 6
„ 2 6
„ 2 6
.. pints 1 6
PORT WINE. Per Bottle.
s d
40-year old, Gilbey's
Celebrated Four Diamond
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
No. **** „
No. *** „
No. ** „
No.* '•••
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
..6 6
..4 0
..6 0
.. 5 0
... 4 0
... 3 0
... 3 6
... 3 6
5 0
4 0
3 0
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s ...
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry) ...
Fine Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart
BRITISH WINES.
6 6
6 6
6 0
4 0
3 0
5 0
4 0
3 0
James Heddle’s G inger Wine
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY.
... 2 6
... 2 6
Jameson's *** •• ,
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by Burke ...
Kinahan’s unrivalled LL
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky
Jameson’s 3s 6d and
Dunville’s
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart
Jameson’s ,, „
3 6
6 0
0
Flasks
2s Od and 2 3
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenllvet 3s
Glenlivet Whisky, per Imperial quart
Flasks 2s 6d and
5
4
4s and 5
4
4
4
5
3
d and
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva 4 0
Celebrated Key Brand, very large size, each
bottle containing more than a quart ... 3 6
Flasks Key Gin ... Is and 1 6
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Railway
Station or any wharf in the city, Free of Charge.
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.—On receipt of £3, the following
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR PORT WIRE,
2 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERIOR SHERRY WINE
W TOTAL—15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address—
P, R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & Importer,
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sydney.
I
s
s
&
sc
Q
O
o
CP,
CC
a
SenTP 5 * -
BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
ok | HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
NEW SHOULDER REEL White, Black & all Colours
BROOK’S PATENT
GLAC£ THREAD
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
HY D 110 P A T H Y.— MR. JOSEPH REEVE,
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, Colds Acute or Chronic Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis. Liver
Complaint. Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases. All persons who are suffering,
and weary of using physic, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A few weeks’
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladles and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment. Terms on
application.
“Throw physic to the dogs, I’ll none of it.”—
Shakespeare.
“Purification in the old law did save life.” Milton.
Address:
8 Royal Terrace, Nicholson Street,
FITZROY, MELBOURNE.
Educational.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS conducts a Class in
ELOCUTION and VOICE BUILDING, for
Ladies and Gentlemen, WEDNESDAY EVEN-
INGS, 8 o’clock. Room —35 SYDNEY ARCADE,
over Wm. Ezold’s Piano Warerooms; also, at
SCHOOL OF ARTS, TUESDAY and FRIDAY,
4 p.m. Private Lessons, Ladles or Gentlemen, 121
Phillip-street; or, enquire of Chas. Huenerbein,
178 Pitt-street; or Wm. Ezold, George-street.
INTERCOLONIAL JUVENILE INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.
To be held towards the close of the year.
Patron His Excellency the Governor.
Schedules, and full particulars, will shortly appear.
R. H. De LOW,
CHAS. E. ROWLING,
Hon. Secs.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Sheatre Royal, “ Mankind ” Vide p. 10.
pera House, ‘‘Manola” ib.
Mr. Jack Scantlebury, formerly a distin-
guished journalist, and now a distinguished im-
presario, has shown that his head (which is a No. 9
one) has been properly adjusted by Providence.
He commenced his “ Boccaccio” campaign by giv-
ing two performances at Parramatta, so as to get
his company well together before facing the sub-
jects of King Fletcher at Newcastle. A good deal
of interest b«ing felt as to what would be the
artistic success of the venture, we got into a train
filled with critics, pros., and mashers, and went
down to see the show. We are glad we did, now;
for we not only saw the opera, but a whole lot of
pleasant things as well.
Robert Buchanan (who has lately scored,
by the way, an enormous success at the Adelphi
with his drama “Storm-beaten”) has written a
highly picturesque poem called “ White Rose and
Red, and in it he describes a somnolent American
township in these two lines:—
“ Nothing coming, nothing going,
All things drowsy—Drowsietown.”
This strictly applies to Parramatta. We arrived
there in the afternoon, and found the place, com-
paratively speaking, locked in slumber. A drowsy
milkman or two blundered drearily along, stopping
now and then to yawningly fill a jug or two; tho
Eublicans stood blinking in their doorways; and
appening to call on a local celebrity in tho
lie and hammer line, we were told by the
chartered Abigail that he was in bed. Then
we thought we'd try all the editoi’s. Finding,
not without some difficulty, the Independent
office, we were told by a civil young man with no
coat and a smudge on his nose (probably the War
Correspondent) that the editor had gone home —to
sleep, of course. Undaunted by this, we went
round to Fergy’s office, the Cumberland Times,
and asked for him. Fergy’s office is a shop in
which he sells high-class literatu re of the sixpenny-
novel order, scented soap, sewing-machines, and
the paper—when he can get anyone to buy it. The
place was deserted; so, after stamping about fox-
quarter of an hour or so, dropping a volume of
the Encyclopedia, and calling “dinner” in sten-
torian tones, we sat down exhausted. We had
read the “ Fire Demon ” all through, and had
broken the back of “ Gauntlet the Gory,” when
Fergy not turning up, we were just going out for
a van in which to take the things away, when a
fairy footstep was heard at the back or the shop,
and John appeared. He said he had been writing
copy; and as we were too polite to hint that he
had been grinding away at the double-demy, th®
meeting was of an excessive cordiality, We left
John ten minutes later; but coming back, we
peeped through the window. He was busy amongst
the bookshelves taking stock. From thence to the
Mercury office, where they also sell dime novels,
soap, and sewing-machines—with the addition of
infantine cat-calls and the penny whistle of the
youthful piper. ‘He’s at his own home,” said a
mild youth with highly intellectual feet, in answer
to our inquiries for the redoubtable “ Wrecker.”
who is editor for tho paper. “ Having a lie down ?”
we softly inquired. " Shouldn’t wonder, sir,” was
the reply: and wo walked out like one in a dream.
* * *
We hunted him up, though—and we are
sorry we did. For now our respect for him has
vanished like half-a-sheep before the hon. philan-
thropist of Darling Harbour. “The Wrecker”
doesn’t live in a boarding-house, and creep in the
back way so as to avoid his landlady, who is lying
in wait in the front parlour; he doesn’t, when you
shake hands with him, display a large amount of
bony wrist but no shirt cuff. Not at all. Under
these circumstances, no person with an equable
mind could fairly consider him a true journalist.
AVe beheld with dismay that he was enshrined in a
pretty bower all flowers and trees, and that there
were no coffee-cups and beer-bottles kicking about
the parlour. He welcomed us kindly, and said
he was afraid he would not be very brilliant that
afternoon as he had been taking rather a long
snooze. But we scarcely heard him. We looked
round upon the chairs that were whole; upon tho
sofa, that was neither bandaged with hoop-iron,
nor propped up with gin-cases; and, wringing
his hand, wo borrowed what change he had, and
sorrowfully departed.
• # •
It was dusk by this time, and the town
showed several lights. Especially the chemists.
But for these benefactors, we should have lost our
way several times; and, by the time the show
began, have been, in all probability (metaphori-
cally), “ pricking o’er the plain ” in the neighbour-
hood of Jamberoo. The Victoria Theatre, Parra-
matta, is an edifice which looks, outside, like a corn
exchange or a clothes-faetory, and inside like a
neat little play-house. We were glad to see,
when seated, that a good tew petfple had
shaken off their slumbers sufficiently to trickle
in. The circle, especially, was patronised by
quite a gay crowd. We noticed a Parramatta
lady in a gorgeous condition of gloves; Clark
Irving, Mr. Menser, Harry M’Quade, M.P., and a
number of young gentlemen who appeared,
through the evening, to take considerable interest
in the pages and students. We were surprised
when we saw the orchestra. There was no old
girl tinkling a feeble piano, with a bottle of porter
behind the instrument, but a band of nine. Truly,
Jack has grand ideas I In his arrangements,
as Tom Pinch remarked of John Westlock’s
commissariat, he is “a tremendous fellow.”
We gave a lot of the cast last week, but we made a
mistake in one instance. We said Miss Grace Hen-
riques was to play Peronella (Lotteringhi’s wife).
Well, that young lady declining to make up ugly,
the part was allotted to Maggie Oliver, who, it may
be said at once, was a great success. When we
said we didn’t like Miss Oliver’s Ann Chute, she
was angry, and by way of a dark and deadly re-
venge, invited us to call and formally patronise
her little hostelry. But we were away and didn’t
go. So we live to write. We suppose Maggie will
be pleased now. Wo almost hope so.
Josephine Deakin came out of her shell in
fine style as Boccaccio, and looked and sang de-
lightfully. This is not too much to say, because it
is true; and you can’t say too much that is true,
unless it is to the “ Missis ” after you have been
“ called away for three days on important busi-
ness!” Fiametta (Ivanova’s part) was entrusted
to Miss Teresa Horan, who, never having seen the
piece, didn’t know the business, but sang the
music nicely enough, reaching the high J in her
duet without the aid of a step-ladder. Jennie
Horan made a lot of fun out of Isabella; and a
Miss A. Bolyn was Beatrice. This young lady
seemed to have a very mild idea of it, indeed; and
if we, as critics, said aught else of A. Bolyn, some
other critic would be A. Bolyn of us out.
* * *
Vernon Reid made a good Prince of
Palermo, and by his dialect was obliging enough
to instruct us all that Palermo was in Lancashire.
Mr. G. A. Johnson sang well as Lambertucchlo,
but his acting was not quite on a par with the
brilliant display made by Mr. George Dean. Leo-
netto was done all right by Mr. Gamor, whose ex-
treme height caused his head, at times, to disappear
in the flies; and a speechless page was eloquently
played by Miss Maude Rouse, whose head was, by
the way, in a similar predicament. There was a
good show of pages, but they were not well pro-
portioned as to size; for when, for instance, Tilly
Lake got behind one of Maude Rouse’s understand-
ings, you couldn’t see her. Taking the show as a
whole, however, it is, by no means the worst (it
certainly is the most numerous) opera boufle crowd
that has sought the rustic rhino.
“ Mankind” will, we hear, only be played
a few nights longer, when Henry Pettitt’s “ Taken
from Life,” a piece with a horse in it, will be put
on. This is described as being the best piece in
Bland’s bunch. “ Mankind,’’ as a specimen ot dra-
matic construction, is certainly the worst. It is
only a little better than that Idiotic rot, “ Romany
Rye.” It is rumoured that one of the “fairy
actresses” —or both—play in “Taken from Life.”
" No matter if they murder me,”
She shrieked aloud in accents wild;
“ Oh, all I ask—implore of thee,
Is save, oh, save my blessed child I”
♦ ♦ * ♦
Dunning’s advertisements announce the
forthcoming production ot Crook’s “King’s Dra-
goons.” Who in thunder’s Crook? “Manola’ has,
it seems, made money for the managmeent. We
are very glad, indeed, of this. It must have drawn
a lot of people. Ex’s £100 a night before the cur-
tain goes up. Oh, Isaak I
* * * #
What’s all this about the Gaiety?
Well, we can’t help it. We can’t help the
poor Italians either, who have had such a
shocking time of it that they are next door to
destitute. They blame Bayless, and Bayless
blames them, and there is the usual row. We don’t
know what Bayless says, because we haven’t seen
him, but the artistes say a lot of things which we
aren’t going to print. It is hardly worth while
coming all the way from Italy for the money they
have made, especially as Sydney cooks can’t cook
maccaroni even a little bit.
In Melbourne, at the Opera House,
George’s blood-curdlers have come to an end, and
Pomeroy has been giving them “ Camille,” which
she calls “ Heartsease.” Oh, and this reminds us wo
have received from Bombay a long rigmarole
from Mr. Mowry, an actor (recently a member of
her company), who says that Louise wouldn’t pay
his passage back to Australia, and that he was pre-
paring to walk to London vid Siberia, or some-
thing. AVe forget the rest. At the Bijou there (wo
mean Melbourne) Wybert Reeve has been doing
moderate biz. with “ Love and Money.” He is
playing “Diplomacy” now, but without the fasci-
nating party who used to tell her mother she had
lost her slipper. By the way, this nice lady, who
was very sick, got well again just in time to
support George Darrell. This is the Naked Truth.
And so is also tho fact that Grattan Riggs is draw-
ing all the gods to see him at the Princess’ in
“ Grasp.” So it is also that our old friend Max
Vogrich has had a farewell concert, which reminds
us, by-the-by, ot something. Let’s see, how will
you have it ? Ah I
There was a musician so clever
(His talent the public delights):
But lie heard ot his ladye-love playing
A part in an opera in tights.
Then ho waved her away; yes, for ever—
It was, oh, the saddest of sights I
“ I can take to my heart,” he cried, “ never,
A lady who’s sung once In tights.”
What’s next 7 Oh, a wire from Bega from
Jimmy South, who says he is doing well with hia
company, and that Miss Edith Ponder’s voice is re-
turning—which is a good thing for Jimmy; and,
consequently, we are very glad to hear it. There
is a note, too, from Millis, the Ventriloquist King,
who tells us that they opened to a good house at
Garner’s in Adelaide; but he sadly remarks that
they are playing against Williamson’s Opera Com-
pany and St. Leon’s Circus. Well, there’s one thing
that helps Fred’s show along. It don’t eat much,
Moulton lives, as is known, principally on pain
paint and fruit pills. And to run right away, lot
us chronicle the tact that a Miss Fanny Reid is the
Juliet who M’Mahon is to bring out here to play to
play to Kyrle Bellew’s Romeo. Very pretty, they
say, but not histrionically massive.
* * * *
Everyone will be sorry to hear that Miss
Lena Edwin (Mrs. Bland Holt) has quitted this New
Babylon for another World. Taken from Life in
almost the flower of her Youth. The deceased lady,
some months ago, had, on the stage at Melbourne
an apoplectic fit, which induced paralysis, bho
lingered on, and, though the best Melbourne
doctors had little hopes of her ultimate recovery,
she kept up her courage to the last, and sent Bland,
on the evening he opened at the Royal, a telegram
wishing him luck. That is but a week or two ago,
and now the genial woman is dead.
The vigour of youth given to the aged and
infirm by using Hop Bitters Try it. Bead.
THE RESULT OF THE SESSION.
JUDGES AND OTHERS ARE RESPECTFULLY REQUESTED NOT TO OBSTRUCT THE TRAMS.


PEPPER AND SALT.
HIC JACET.
O take us out, and plant us deep
Down in the quiet ground,
In some lone spot where we may sleep
And never hoar a sound.
For We are sad and sick at heart—
No more the page we’ll plough
With splutt’ring pen—we’ve played our part:
We’ve nought to live for now.
Our bosom once with hope was rife,
Our heart with golden dreams:
We saw the brilliant web of Life—
We didn’t see the seams.
We had our dreams ethereal—
Our idols. We have seen
Our dreams decay; our idols all
Smashed up to smithereens.
By a groat statesman once we swore—
His genius we adored;
But he who often took the floor,
Alas! himself is floored.
We’d an aquatic idol, rose
To world-wide fame. The sura
Of all the water now he knows
Is what he takes in rum.
And one, the greatest of them all,
The terror of the ring,
Whose brawny hands were made to maul
And smash up everything.
The doughty hero of hard knocks—
Where s now that champion grim ?
The very oystox-s on the rocks
Laugh in their shells at him.
Our idols all are broken. Thus
We wish to live no more;
So dig a hole and bury us,
As we xemarked bofox-e.
* * *
The Auckland Observer, which claims to
be a “ Society paper” (what is a society paper, by
the way ?) has dropped in for a ribald attack which
we deplore. It seems on the departure of Mr.
Rathbone (whose loss we must ever regret!) the
Siper was bought by a clergyman—the Reverend
avid Bruce. Under this gentleman’s regime the
Observer has, if possible, grown more inane; for
we discern in its columns that kind of copy which
none but a holy mind could suggest—none but re-
ligious reflection occasion I Seeing this, it is a matter
or regret to us that a profane person—for every
paper is profane unless ft be religious—in Auckland
has thought fit to chaff the Rev. Mr. Bruce
in his paper. We will give, though we do so with
a shudder, a few extracts from the paper we
allude to; in which, as will be seen, are embodied
quotations fx-om the Rev. Mr. Bruce’s paper:—
“Young Johnny, of Mount Eden, should not be so
demonstrative in kissing the fair Lizzie in front of
the gate, in sight of passers-by. It makes them
jealous.”—The Rev. D. Bruce In the Observer.
[Hoar, hear.]..“ Who is that beer-jerker who acci-
dentally learned ‘ the chair trick ?’ ’’—The Rev. D.
Bruce, in the Observer. [David only knows.]..
“Never mind, Tom, drop one to-night, there’s a
good follow. —The Rev. D. Bruce, in the Ob-
server. All Holy Joes are not Josephs.”—The
Rev. D. Bruce, in the Observer. [Nor yet Davids.]
The gentleman who quoted this with cruel com-
ments is a man to be pitied. The saturnine Wick-
ham, of the Free Lance, has no reverence; he
has no appreciation of godliness; he is — to
paraphrase Chadband — only a “ human man.”
It gives us, therefore, some pleasure to think that
the party who basely perpetrated this skit on a
gentleman of the cloth is as far away as Auckland.
Were ho within reach, we should certainly deem it
our duty either to kill him or to shake hands with
him. Tills rebuke of ours will, we know, have
closed up, with our irreverent contemporary, this
distressing and unholy vein of sarcasm. If any
other man ran the Auckland Observer, he would
possibly have to wear cast-iron underclothing.
But people can’t well kick a clergyman.
• • •
The Carcoar Mary says, with touching
melancholy, that a German woman who is going
about Sydney playing the accordion “ very nicely”
earns more than many a country editor. Perhaps
she does, in hard cash; but how about produce ?
The Gorman lady has to “pad the hoof” to a con-
siderable extent to get the coppers in, whereas all
the gorgeous editor has to do is to lie off on his gin-
case and wait for editorial cabbages and literary
potatoes. As we can’t be a German woman who
plays the accordion, we are almost crushed at
being an editor. And, mind, we don’t get any
vegetables sent forinsoi-tion, or gratuitous contri-
butions on the abstract principles of ring-barking.
We don’t even have tow-locked divinities of travel-
ling stars tripping round for a rielame , and causing
some slight confusion in our domestic surround-
ings. We knew the time when we are a country
editor ourselves. But we cannot frankly say we
were a gox-geous success in that capacity. Modesty
was our bane. We did not, therefore, like to court
the society of distinguished persons—to hobnob
with the sexton, and visit at the house of the
poundkeeper. We could never either “ throw off”
a par. about either the travelling dentist or the
Indian corn-doctor. We remember once, up in
the Far North, we looked after a paper for a gal-
lant editor who wanted a trip with his family to
Sydney. We tapped our nose as we saw him sail
away in his gallant bark, and thought with glee how
we’d increase his circulation. We started, directly
we got back, to increase it. When the
reporter came in with his budget of little pars,
about what cattle were travelling, and when the
man would have finished cleaning the Court-house
clock, we gently took the items from him and re-
wrote them. Then, instead of the yard and quarter
leader about steel-rails, we wrote about naif a
column, telling the people how near to Rockhamp-
ton hell was. But the result was contrary to what
might have been anticipated. They didn’t like it.
During our career there we refused whisky,
sample singlets, bananas, and cigars. This paxa-
lysed them. They had never dreamt of a man
before who could tell them how near to hell
their town was, nor seen one who could
refuse whisky, singlets, bananas, and cigars. We
told them that we were journalists of the future,
but they said they didn’t want to hear anything
about the future. Then we wex-e unhappy, and
loft. But we should have been more unhappy still,
and have wept with Mary, had we thought a
German woman playing an accordion could have
earned more than we could. And we are glad, for
numberless reasons, that we didn’t hear it. Had
we done so, we should have now been playing the
accordion instead of writing between a pretty red
wrapper. Our paper is too big, you see, to allow
of our writing it and playing the accordion also.
But, had we only the Carcoar Chronicle to look
after, we would engage, not only to play the accor-
dion, but the flute, too; and to devote beside three
starry nights a week to the alluring and profitable
pastime of choir-practice.
* * *
Apropos of the “ Chloe ” controversy, the
following letter appeared in the Argus of May
34:—“To the Editor. Sir,—I think there is one
point in regard to ‘ Chloe ’ that your correspon-
dents have overlooked, and as it is a point in her
favour, I am sure no other excuse is necessary for
bringing it before you. It seems to me that the
picture has a strictly and positively moral ten-
dency in promoting matrimony. The artist shows
us (I write as a bachelor) what a really beautiful
thing a young maiden is—a matter that I am sure
you will agree with me in stating we can otherwise
know nothing of except by hearsay, and I main-
tain that if anything can fan the incipient sparks
of affection into such a flame of love as shall in-
duce a young man to go straightway and commit
matrimony it is the sight of ‘ Chloe.’ ’ In the
present day of ‘improved’ dresses, when horrid
doubts are rampant as to how far the modiste may
be credited with the graceful curves that charm
us, the beautiful French picture is quite a refresh-
ing antidote, and if the contemplation of it can
awaken our dormant admiration for what is * pal-
pably tangibly time,’ Chloe’s moralising influence
will be incalculable.—I am, etc., T. P. I. ” “ But,”
writes another man. “ whore arc you going to get
your Chloe ? Haw ! Haw I Chloe never pinched
her waist in with a corset, while the maid applied
a knee to the small of her back in order to rope it
up. There is not a single corn on that pretty little
foot at the water’s edge. She is neither padded
nor bustled. When a man marries, it is the old
case of the pig in a sack. If ‘ Chloe ’ be an incen-
tive to marriage, she ought to be taken up, you
know, for obtaining bachelors on false pretences.”
THE COMIC CURATE.
How long ago? We hardly know.
Our mem’ry’s growing dim;
But, though a lot we have forgot,
We still remember him.
He was a cui'ate, round and fat,
Red-faced as storm sunsets;
And underneath his tassellod hat
He earned clgai’ottes.
Little cared he for ritual,
For chasuble or cope:
Yet did he daily pledge, withal,
His Holiness the Pope.
But, then, he was an Anglican,
So why this sinful guile ?
Because—because—why, hang it, man.
Because the augurs smile.
He loved to sit down, warm and snug,
Each night, for a small revel:
He’d rather wrestle with a jug
Than wrestle with the devil.
And one of his strong points was then
Man’s ne’er so near divine,
So very like a saint, as when
He’s full of crusty wine.
Good sooth, to pass the glass his hand
Was always free and ready:
He called lus wine the Cherub Brand,
Because it was so heady.
And when men to his dwelling went,
For good advice to ask,
He might not have a Testament,
But he would have a flask.
Doctrines wei’e not his forte, indeed,
And he would let them rip
With, for their spiritual need,
His blessing—and a nip.
And, though his pews might not be full,
He always had a full pit,
And from nis flask he’d take a pull
When he was in the pulpit.
He was a most peculiar man—
You needn’t think we brag—
A heaven-born low comedian,
This Reverend Choker Wagg.
He had a face no man could see
And keep his countenance,
And when he’d sing the Litany
His flock would rise and dance.
There was, though he tried to look staid,
Such humour in his speech.
They’d laugh like thunder when he prayed,
And roar when hewould preach.
His sermons on a solemn theme
To them were splendid squibs;
They’d hear each sentence with a scream,
And dig each others’ ribs.
His reference to Satan’s hoof
Gave pleasure and took well,
But they would simply raise the roof
When he would mention hell!
With grief, he said it came to pass,
That these ungodly folk
Looked on religion simply as
A mighty rich old joke.
But, sad to say, the more he tried
To paint the future grim,
And made it hot for such as died—
The more they laughed at him.
If he had almost brought to grace
A sinner steeped in sin,
The man had but to see his face
(The Reverend Wagg’s) to grin.
His nature was too strong, you see,
The bent of it to shun;
For some are born for tragedy
And some are born for tun.
Why, at a death-bed, he would slide
From grief to mirth, would he;
Then punch the sick man in the side,
And laugh consumedly.
They even say that, one time when
Beside a grave he read
That solemnest of themes to men,
The Service for the Dead,
It seemed so full of fun and wit
And waggery—It did—
The very corpse laughed so that It
Shook off the collin-lid.
The Reverend Choker Wagg is dead,
And with his latest breath
Ho prayed? Not he: he joked instead,
Thou laughed himself to death.
The Reverend Choker Wagg is dead—
No man was ever deader—
We hope to see his bullet-head
In the Elysian “ medder.”
“ Death,” said the minister, impressively,
“never has to sharpen his scythe.” “But that can-
not be,” the sexton mused, “because the poet
sings, ‘Thou hast all seasons for thine hone, O
Death.’ ”
A mute in Yorkshire, at the funeral of the
late Mr. Stoddart, when requested by the de-
ceased’s brother to tell a gentleman to take a glass
of wine with him, said: “ Please, sir, the corpse’s
brother would like to tek a glass o’ wine wi’ ye.”
A man bought a newspaper from one of
two boys, and gave the seller half-a-crown to get
changed. After waiting some time, he said to the
other boy: *’ Where’s your partner?” “ Oh,” said
the youth, with a grin, “he’s bust up. and I’m his
assignee.”
“Why so gloomy this morning, Jacob?”
“ Ah, my poor leetle Peniamin Levi—he is tead I ”
“Dead? You surprise me. How did it happen?”
“Yell, you see, my leetle Penjamln he was at der
synagogue to say his brayers, and a poy put in his
lied at der toor und grles: ‘Job loti’ and leetle
Penjamin vas gilt in der grush.”
“ Me wantee bollow tlee bunder poun’
quick wellee soon, to-day,” said the child-like and
bland Yow Hop to one of the (ill) chosen people
the other day. “ Ah, yes, very veil,” replied the
fourteen thousand shent-per-shenter, “but I must
know vat is de seeux-ity?” “Secullty!” exclaimed
the astonished heathen “Why, nex’ week mo go in-
solvent, allee same like Inglisman.” Abraham
“parted ” at once.
The French do not seem to be troubled
with sentimental prejudices against vivisection.
In Paris, the other day, a professor of natux-al his-
tory announced that he intended to make some
experiments on quivering flesh. For this purpose
he procured a rabbit, skinned it alive, nailed it on
a board by the paws, and proceeded to cut holes in
the wretched animal by way of illustrating his
theories. This sickening exhibition took place
before a class of young girls.
That terrible infant! And teeth are too
often decayed In Australia! The other evening a
fond and fashionable mother was holding- forth to
an admiring circle of acquaintances on the good
looks and intelligence of the six-year old daughter
then happening to be at her knee on the way to
bed. During a lull in the conversation the little
girl, who had been looking up while the mother
orated, remarked, shrilly and distinctly, “Oh,
Mama, your teeth have got so rusty."
Edward Hordern’s blankets are
White as the driven snow;
Now just curl up between them, and
Elysium you’ll know!
All splendid goods, the prices do
From great to little vary,
Yet not one of those blankets you
Would find was Hordernary.
Just read and laugh—to come you will.
You know the place—On Brickfield Hill.*
The scheme for a new opera-house at Ade-
laide does not prosper. It is generally looked on
as not so much for the benefit of the public as for
the benefit of a somebody who, having bought a
city block in rather an out-of-the-way position,
wishes to sell it at a particularly high figure.
Anyhow, if Chapman or his representatives will
only enlarge the existing Theatre Royal, and place
it in the hands of a first-class manager, anything
approaching profitable competition can be barred
for many years to come.
Christchurch has a Cathedral, consequently
Christchurch considers itself miles ahead of Mecca
or Jerusalem in holiness, without which no one
can look a bishop or an archdeacon “in the mug.”
Recently a poor boy was discovered within the
sacred precincts of this cathedral city playing
“ Yankee Doodle” on a Jew’s-harp in broad day-
light, and a dignitary of the church, or some other
great philanthropist, spotted him, and he was
arrested, and sent to the Industrial School at Burn-
ham to be brought up according to the tenets of
the Church of England in New Zealand. Meantime
his mother- and little brothers and sisters, whom he
was assisting to support by his honest efforts as a
street news-vendor, are starving for want of the
pennies he used to bring home; and the Lord
Frimate of New Zealand, and all the other church,
kirk, chapel, and school-room expounders of the
“ Gospel of Greed,” feast on the fat of the land,
and if they ever hunger and thirst at all, it is after
the righteousness that gives them church bazaars,
large stipends, well-furnished houses, and parson-
ages. and all the other comforts, conveniences, and
fashionable requirements of the goody-goody
aristocracy of cant.
BRIEF MENTION.
The Adelaide sewer-smells are so “ feeted”
that they can get up and walk.
The evidence in favour of Mr. Joseph
Brady's alihi was considered by the jury to be too
Meagher.”
Thus “ Liryc ” :—“ I am a staunch advocate
of all manly sports.” Tush! likewise Pish! not to
mention Bosh!
A papier-mache church has been built
somewhere on the Continent. They are ahead of
us. We have only got the length of papier-macM
parsons.
A lecture was delivered in Parramatta
lately, on the subject, “ Has man pre-eminence
over a beast ?” We should say it depends upon the
man—and the beast.
Down at Hay a lamb ate two five-pound
notes. The owner killed it, took the notes out of
its stomach and cashed them. This was “ lambing-
down ” to the letter.
It has been proposed to export some of the
more obnoxious Ritualists at home to New Guinea
as missionaries. They are not popular in England,
but they will be popular in New Guinea. The
natives there prefer them high.
The gain accruing from an acquaintance
with the law is the knowledge how to break it
with impunity. Policemen, when they retire,
usually become publicans. There is noconnection
between the foregoing sentences.
The other day, on the Palmer, a horse,
which had just been sold by an Orangeman, bucked
and gave the R.C. clergyman it was carrying, a
“ terrific buster.” Bucephalus was a good Protes-
tant, and didn’t believe in being priest-ridden.
A man was wanted by the police down at
Condobolin. They found him In an old hut. He
was hidden under a rubbish-heap, but one of the
constables saw the heel of his boot sticking out.
If that man had been a reporter, he would never
have been discovered.
James Kingston has discovered in New
Zealand a bath that restores hair to bald-headed
men. It is supposed that two poets—the Sladens
of the period—were drowned there by the natives
about a century ago. Like most other poets, their
hair 11 /ed longer than their verse.
Some time back, Mr. Harold Maclean paid
an official visit to Wagga gaol, and addressing the
prisoners drawn up, said: “Ah, I’m the Comp-
troller-General of Prisons,” when a voice in the
rear broke out, “ I thought yaw were some such
(adjective) fool.” Whereupon the boss gaoler's
hair assumed the perpendicular.
In answer to the request of the Manly
Beach residents for a bathing-place, Mr. Stuart re-
marked that “ the next thing llkelv to be wanted
by the residents would be that Parliament should
go and—wash them.” Hardly. Our Parliament
as not had time to wash itself yet. The first
member who can swear to clean hands, let him
pass the soap.
A drunken man in Wagga sat down on a
burning log, which he mistook for an arm-chair.
Hearing his yells, several people rushed in and put
him out with dippers of water. He never held his
head up from that day. His liquor had never been
mixed before. Come to think of it, it is a pity a
man can’t be extinguished with rum. And yet,
on second thoughts, most men are.
A young man was fined 60s. last week, for
cursing in a public place. Curses seem to be al-
most as expensive as assaults and batteries. We
are sorry for this. If there is one relaxation we
like more than another, it is to go out and curse in
a public place. We should like to know how much
we could legally curse for fourpence. We couldn’t
afford to pay more than this just now. 4
A gentleman in Sydney was lately pre-
sented with a locket which bore the inscription,
“As a token of esteem from a few American
friends.” When the locket was'tested it was found
to be composed of brass. We suppose it was all
they had to give. There are many Americans of
this type in Sydney. They don’t care to live in
their own country, because the gaol fare is too
poor there.
A Christchurch man, only 21, got two
months “on the Vag.” the other day, and had, so
the papers say, to be scrubbed down with a long-
handled broom. It is stated that he was ruined by
“ gambling and drinking.” There is a stern moral
in the foregoing, if you like to clutch it. It is—
don’t gamble and drink. Wo don’t Intend to do
either, ourselves, in future—at least, not to the
extent of having to be scrubbed down with a long-
handled broom.
The estate of the late Sir John O’Shanassy
has been valued at £251,000. He is a pretty poor
man now. Yet perhaps not. We have a theory,
that as every substance has a shadow, everything
has a ghost. The ghost of Sir John, therefore,
may be now luxuriating across the Styx on the
ghost of that money. If this be so, we look for-
ward to a pretty penurious time in Hades our-
selves. We have one consolation, however; we
may meet money-lenders there who don’t know
us.
Alfred’s obituary bard has struck a new
patch at last, and succeeded in balancing two feet
six inches of one sweet-sounding strain with a
yard and a half of another, in a style that makes
the enraptured reader feel as it he were falling
down six flights of stone stairs in company with a
grand piano. Here’s a chunk of the new style;—
“ Green be the turf above thee,
Friend of my better days;
None knew thee but to love.
Nor named thee but to praise thee.”
If the Roman Catholic journals were to
seize hold of the fact that last week, in Adelaide, a
Congregational minister was committed on a
charge of indecent exposure, and make it the
basis of an all-round attack on the vicious conduct
of Protestant parsons, what a fursre of Indignation
there’dbe! How the Echo would rave, and the
Standard shriek, and the Dissenting papers go
into statistics! And yet when a papistical priest
makes a faux pas (or turns out to be a real pa) how
the bigots lash their tails and roar at the iniquities
of the children of the Scarlet “ social evil.”
The editor of the Candelo paper, in cele-
brating the anniversary of the establishment of
his journal, concludes with the pious observation
that “ He who rules nations as well as papers will
continue to enable us in the future to give that
satisfaction that now affords us such a pleasant
reflection on the past.” This sounds suspiciously
like a paraphrase of the request for daily bread.
We have no doubt the Almighty will take the
affairs of the Candelo paper In hand. We don’t
know who will eventually take the editor. It is
indicative enough to say that we expect to meet
him in the other world.
He is still alive and is still a sergeant of the
Force out West. He shoved his roan mare into the
paddock late at night. R.’s bay marc was there
also. He arose at daylight and rode off on the bay.
He got a wire at the next township, asking him to
look out for bay mare and arrest the rider. In the
meantime, R.’s business pressed and he rode off on
the roan. Sergeant is informed that R. is riding a
horse the property of the Force. Goes in pursuit
and the bay catches the roan. What! That ser-
geant is the greatest terror to horse-thieves in the
Western district, and owes his promotion to his
expertness in hunting up “soldiers.”
At the Quarter Sessions in Wilcannia, his
Honor Judge Docker reprimanded one of the local
newspapers for giving a false report of the pro-
ceedings in order to injure the rival organ. The
Judge hopes in future that the newspapers “will
have more regard for their duty to the public and
their own dignity.” It is all very nice to sit on a
bench and talk ot dignity; but if the Judge had to
write articles on the ethics of political economy,
and then go in and dine off a sheep’s-skuli while he
saw the man over the way banqueting on corned
beef, perhaps he would not be so high-toned in
his ideas of commercial morality. The proof of
the pudding is in the eating. Country editors
rarely prove a pudding.
“TWO OF A KIND.”


Little Bonython is at it in the S.A.
Chronicle. He says that a horse recently found
in' a lagoon had hoofs on it a foot in length. No
one who hasn’t seen the S.A. ’Tiser staff can
realise with what demoniacal satisfaction this was
penned. Bony is a charming little fellow, and so
Is Jeff. Stow; but, whenever either of them wants
a new pair of alligator-skin shoes, it takes four
alligators to make them. Jeff.’s goloshes have leng
been a standing joke in Adelaide. When he leaves
them in his room at night, the watchman Alls
them with water and lets the fireman go home to
the missus. That’s why they’re so glad to find a
horse with a foot long. Their hoofs are only two
feet: and the size.-of the horse’s eases their con-
sciences.
Typhoid in milk, tuberculosis in beef, tri-
chinae in pork: these are the things that delight
the mind of Mackellar, M.D. In time, between the
Lancet and the medical men, life will be reduced
to a misery, and evil disease germs will lurk in
every article of food. Perhaps this induced an
editor of a metropolitan journal to reject some
truffles stewed in champagne at the recent Messa-
gerles Maritimes spread, thinking they were grease
coagulations from the galley range. And perhaps
t also induced the partner of a Minister of the
Crown, and In a carrying firm, to ask, at the same
place, what in thunder “savage canards” were.
These two went for corned beef and tuberculosis
with potatoes, and left the truffles and wild ducks
alone. Quot homines tot sentential! We prefer the
rejected dainties, and chance the latent disease
germs.
There are a lot of dull things in the world.
It is hard to have to listen to Mr. M‘Coll on irriga
tion, Mr. Mirams on land tenure, Professor M’Coy
on Darwinism, or Mr, David Blair on Agnosticism.
To be forced to rely on the Arous or on the Aoe
for your political economy, on the Dean of Mel-
bourne or the Dean of Sydney for enlightened
views on Sabbath observance, or on the “ slobber ”
overflowing the columns of the newspapers re-
garding paintings from the nude (apropos of Chloe)
tor your aestheticism, is bad enough. But for real,
stolid, monotonous dullness, go and see a game of
chess with living chessmen. The fiend that intro-
duced this last phase of imbecility should be con-
demned to We cannot think of anything severe
enough to meet his case, except a week’s imprison-
ment with nothing to read but the poetry of
Martin T upper.
The publicans of Far Western Queensland
are anxiously looking out for a fresh comet. It
was Interesting to observe their thorough earnest-
ness in search of the latest wonder when It was
expected to appear between four and five a.m.
The whole establishment was roused up by the
scientific “ boss,” and from five till breakfast time
tonics sparkled as in race week. It was a too-tonic
time, for Western men were not accustomed to
look skyward much, and had now and again to
seek the encouragement of Udolpho Wolfe. One
publican on the Thompson is prepared to head a
subscription list with twenty guineas to induce
another meteor to display itself at dawn. This is
a good chance for churchmen who can move
mountains by faith. At it, friends, at it! You
have the lie of that sort of thing—or the lie comes
in somewhere. But the cheque is good.
He did not mean it for a sell at all. He is
well known on the outskirts of civilization, and no
one questions his sincerity and fair play. But his
action In the bush church did seem strange. He
lifted the collection-plate off the side table, and
before carrying it round the house, took from his
pocket-book a sovereign, held it up in front of the
worshippers and examined It carefully. Then he
put it on theplate and marched down the floor for
donations. Those who intended to give only a
shilling, had, of course, under such an inspiration,
to double it, and a few were even impelled to
imitate the liberal collector. But when the col-
lector got back to the table, he turned to the wor-
shippers again and put his sovereign through a
similar examination. Then he laid it down once
tor all, and taking up 19s. 6d. in change, walked
back to his place with the face of a patriarch.
When a lot of Foleyites who went to the
glove-tight, but were unable to get a view of the
proceedings in the ring, heard a sounding thwack,
like the noise of a zig-zag railway collision echoing
in Katoomba Valley, they shrieked out: “Ah!
give It to him again, Larry—kill the Melbourne
dog!” The said Foleyites weren’t aware of the
melancholy fact that Foley was the drum and
Miller the drummer. Their cries used to nettle
the big, good-humoured boxer somewhat, and
letting out at poor Larry with his right or his left,
he knocked him right across the ring towards his
friends, the while assuming an attitude which
plainly said: “ Take your man, and divide his bones
among you!”
The Daylesford (Vic.) Advocate demands
a good all round course of flagellation as the only
means of preserving society. As the law stands in
Victoria, the wonder is that so few mount what
was known in the Army as “ the Adjutant’s mare ”
(i.e. the triangles) in its good old days, when for
staying an extra hour to caress his sweetheart the
Brislsh soldier had five hundred lashes served out
to him before his morning coffee, but that any
escape whipping. Some time ago, a country
bumpkin got on the “ spree ” in Melbourne The
“horrors” were coming on; so, thinking that he
was some hundreds of miles away in his bush
shanty, he partially disrobed himself in the Fitzroy
Gardens, and, making his pants into a pillow, went
to sleep under a tree. A nurse-girl who had re-
ceived a religious training at the Reformatory
passed by, and was naturally shocked. He got
three floggings of twenty-five lashes each at suffi-
cient intervals to allow his back to get nicely round
before the cuticle was again removed. This is the
thing the severe moralists of the Advocate would
like to see more common. A few strokes of the
“cat” administered by a boatswain’s mate of a
man-of-war, or by a farrier in a heavy dragoon
regiment, would probably induce him to see matters
in a different light.
David Buchanan thinks prison should he
made more unpleasant to the evil-doer. So do we.
He would re-introduce the treadmill, and a benig-
nant use of the lash; and there’s a flavour of sense
about the idea. The convict is too much coddled,
without a doubt; and perhaps ’twould be as well
for the walls of Darling-hurst to echo to the
strain:—
Then tread away, my gallant boys.
And make the axle fly;
Why should not wheels go round about
Like planets in the sky ?
Wake up, wake up, my duck-legged man,
And stir your solid pegs;
Arouse, arouse, my gawky friend.
And shake your spider legs.
What though you’re awkward at the trade,
There’s time enough to learn;
So lean upon the rail, my lads,
And take another turn.
ANNEXATION—CARRYING THE BLESSINGS OF CIVILIZATION INTO NEW GUINEA.


rJi
I
Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE. INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS. SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
KSf" No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D., of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, said:
* P avil } 1 ? in m >' own person experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, I,
having found great relief and alleviation by its
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence.”
Indigestion and Bladder and Kidney
Troubles.
TT Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880,
Hereford's Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, it is
of the greatest value to me. I have given it in
certain forms of 'dyspepsia, in all cases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I proscribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of all the samples of medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Hereford's AcidPhos-
phate is the only one I have ever found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
in my own person experienced its good effects.
C. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 23,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates, and almost always decline to do so, yet in
the case of ‘‘ Hereford s Acid Phosphate,” I am
willing to say, that, having used it very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value in functional
derangements of the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHAS. WOODHOUSE. M.D.
Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
IL<Ea,g"ic Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may bo Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Bums, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy It tones and corrects tho
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sure Throat, and Hyp.
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL In tho house, or on hand for immediate use In
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers In
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make 1
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the best of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and pex-sonal supervision of,
one of the loading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they ark the
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium*
WTNTASD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON, MDXHAM & CO.,
Sole Agents.
Anglo-Mongolian Cricketer.
A cup of tea at Quong Tart’s has become a
recognised institution among the ladies of Sydney,
and Mr. Quong Tart, whose portrait we give above,
is undoubtedly at the present time the most popu-
lar—or the only popular—Chinese in New South
Wales. As a matter of fact, however, Quong Tart’s
Mongolian qualities are only skin deep. He is a
native of Australia, and a loyal subject of Her
Most Gracious Majesty the Queen. A year or two
ago, Quong Tart visited the land of his fathers, and
albeit he talks the language like a native, the
genuine Chinaman couldn’t make him out. They
called him “ the foreigner.” It so happened that
during his visit, the anniversary of the Queen’s
Birthday occurred, and Quong Tart entertained a
party of Chinese to a water excursion, introducing
them to the champagne of the western barbarian,
and leading them into wild Chinese versions of
hip-hip-hooray, and “ God Save the Queen.” The
tea and roll establishments of Quong Tart in the
Arcade are too well-known to require more than a
passing reference. But it is not so much as a pur-
veyor of tea, or as an interpreter—a post Mr.
Quong Tart long honourably discharged for the
Government—that he prefers to shine. It is as a
man of the world, a true Briton, an expert at
manly sports; and at a recent cricket match
between the occupants of the two arcades, Quong
Tart shone with refulgence. We have accordingly
drawn him in cricketing costume.
Mr. Bull, of Eaton (Q.), was gored by a Cow
last week, in the Calf. Quite a little family
arrangement.
A country solicitor insolvent. Must have
been going to law on his own account. It’s usually
the client who goes up King-street.
“This bill will never pass,” said M‘Elhone
In the House, the other night. “ You mean free
pass,’’ said someone; and the only Mac. was as
silent km a bleaching tombstone.
Says the Evening Lyre We never pub-
lish letters from people who do not give their
names.” No, Alfred; but you often publish letters
from people who can't write them,”
Sydney telegram to a country paper:—
“ Yesterday the dead body of an Infant was dis-
covered on the Balmain road. The police are
busily searching tor the mother.” Why not for
the father ?
Black Wednesday” victims to have re-
fusal of all Victorian Civil Service vacancies.
Waxman won't lend on the chances offered ’em.
That’s what makes the proposal (which sounds
well) so berry unserviceable from a practical
standpoint.
To learn how to shift ft town a fellow must
go to Wagga. North Wagga was for a year or so
the terminus of the Southern Hallway, and a
thriving township sprang up in no time. By and
bye, the river was bridged and the train went on.
Did that town at North Wagga shift? Why, no.
It merely got insured.
Abe Hicken sat in his back parlour at
Melbourne, perusing the account of Miller exer-
cising on Foley. As he devoured line after line, a
shiny moisture gathered on his brow. At the
finish, he drew a deep breath of relief. “ When I
Offered to tight Miller without gloves,” mused
Abe, “lie said, ‘No.’ If he had said, ‘Yes’
whew!” And heaven knows how much meaning
there was in tbftt whistle.
Some elegant old boy or other used to
write “ Odds and Ends from the Old Country” for
the S, M. Herald. Whoever the present writer
is, he is even too funny tor our giddy little con-
temporary. Talking ot Mr. Biggar and his court-
ship, he says:—“ He admitted a donation of stock-
ings, but evidently piqued himself on not having
meddled with other more delicate departments of
underclothing-” It is almost needless for us to
remark that when this appeared the missionaries
were on the spree—wo mean on the Jubilee.
The street was ohlll and gloomy. An sit-
mosphere of depression enveloped all things there-
in. The houses seemed to he in a clammy perspira-
tion. Silence sat on the steps of the closed doors,
and desolation dwelt in the ragged garden plots.
The careless newsboy stopped his merry whistling
as he entered into this street, and shot through
to the other end as a belated traveller might shoot
through a graveyard at the hour when it is sup-
posed to yawn and give up its dead. It was eight
o’clock in the morning; yet the sickly cholera-
coloured window-blinds were still down. Nine
O’clock—and they had not been drawn up. There
was a milk-lug before every door. What was the
mystery of these closed doors, when the people of
every other street wore up and stirring ? Simply
that it was Phillip-street, Sydney, and the boarding-
house keepers were afraid to face the milkman.
In Victoria, a man’s antecedents, or his
fitness for tho position of J.P., are seldom or never
taken into account. Let him but wear a black coat
(even this is not a sine qua non), and have a snug
bank balance, and no awkward questions are asked.
True, ills coat may not have been paid for, or his
“balance" may have been acquired by moans to
which an ugly name might not be improperly
?iven, but having both, he is eligible to judge his
ellows. He may have poisoned his neighbours
with adulterated whisky, or rented his houses for
brothels, mixed sand with his sugar, dummied his
selection, or charged a spendthrift or a struggling
litterateur 1400 per cent, for “ accommodation. ’
things are of, no particular consequence.
With the essentials already mentioned and a friend
in the proper place, his elevation to the Judgment
Seat is secure. There is something peculiarly
humiliating In all this. It is poisoning public lire
at the very source. To see men meting out re-
wards and punishments, who should stand in the
dock, men honoured, who should be despised; pre-
siding at public meetings and expressing in “pigeon
English ” their views on questions, of whose scope
and learning they are alike Ignorant, is—well, is
peculiar—sufficiently startling, indeed, to make us
consider whether, after all, we are not on the
wrong track, and whether burglars shouldn’t be
represented in Parliament.
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
She was a squatter’s daughter
Who lives at Oamaru—
Her cheeks were red us roses,
Her eyes were bright and blue.
Among the smiling daisies
She danced right merrilee,
And laughed a joyous ripple.
And clapped her hands with glee.
She tripped across the green domain
To meet her smiling dad.
And all the swells did marvel much
What made this maid so glad.
And then they heard her saying,
While brightly danced her eyes,
“Papal papa! oh, ain’t you glad,
Our bull has won first prize I ”
When riding about his wide domain, that
eccentric and well-known squatter, Jacky Dow,
was hardly distinguishable from a bushman on
“ the wallaby.” One day, while out on the run,
he was accosted by a swagman. It was just after
shearing, and while the swagman was acquainted
with the veritable squatter’s idiosyncrasies he did
not. recognise the man himself. As Jacky rode up
the tramp said, “ Good day, mate,—come from the
station?’' “Yes,” replied the owner thereof.
“Has old Dow done shearing yet?” “Oh yes,”
said Mr. D., “ he finished two days ago, and cleared
up.” “Well,” pursued the tramp, “(mean to
make the station this evening, and I reckon if old
Jacky ain’t got no sheep to shear he might be able
to give a fellow a job to shear his pigs ; so good
day, mate.” “Good day,” said Mr. Dow, who rode
off pondering. Taking a circuitous route he reached
his station in time to be on the look-out for the
shearer, who in the course of time arrived and
enquired for the boss. The boss was to the fore
quickly, and on learning that his visitor wanted a
job at shoax-ing replied, “ Well, my man, we’ve
finished shoaxingthe sheep, but it you come with
me I’ll find you a job.” So saying he conducted
the swagman to Ins piggery, introduced him to a
savage old Berkshire boar, and requested him to
shear the ferocious brute. The swagman said he
“wasn’t on," but Jacky enjoyed the joke all the
same.
In the dim, religious light of the E. S. and
A. C. Bank at Adelaide the teller and clerks officiate
robed in canonicals. Sex-vice for the day opens with
a chant—“ O be joyful unto Sir George, all ye hands;
serve the Bank with gladness, and come into Wren’s
px-esence with a song.” The teller and ledger-
keepers intone the responses to customers in vari-
ous keys as ari - anged by Sir Geox-ge Verdon, the
inspectox-, who has visited Adelaide purposely to
instruct the clerks in his now banking cex-emonies.
“Good for ten days” is ax-ranged as a tenor solo,
with a humming vocal accompaniment by the
manager, accountant, and pox-ter. “ Not provided
for ” is sot as a duet, with chox-al finale —“ Pi-aise ye
the Bank: the Bank’s name be praised.” It would
be unwise to follow the ritual in detail, as, of
coxxrse, visitox-s are continually arriving from the
other colonies to see for themselves, and we have
no wish to tarnish the gilt edges of novelty. Suffice
it to say that the day’s service concludes with the
following chant, voiced for soli, a terzetto, quax-
tetto, and full chorus, with ox-gan accompaniment
(played by Yex-don) :—
“ My soul doth magnify Sir George,
And my spirit hath rejoiced in him, my em-
ployer.
For he hath regax-ded the lowliness of my
screw yearly:
For, behold, from henceforth, all customers
shall make deposits,” etc. etc.
The Rev. J. P. Dickson, Paddington, is now
wrestling with the following course of lectures for
male young men only:—
“ The Foundation and Source of True Manhood.”
“The Development of True Manhood.”
“The Young Man in Business.”
“ The Young Man in Society.”
“ The Young Man in his Leisure hours.”
“ The Young Man in the Church.”
We fear Mr. Dickson’s experience of our young
men is considerably hampered by limits. What
would Interest them most would be a course like
this:—
“ The True Science of Devil’s Pool and Pyramids,”
“The Proper Way to Devoiope a Chocolate Tint on
a Time-Paymexxt Meerschaum,otherwise known
as the Art of Colouring,”
“ The Young Man on a Howling Tear.”
"The Young Man swabbing out his Cell in the
Lock-up, with Instructions how to hold the
Mop and shirk the business.”
“The Young Man patx-onising the Ladies of the
Opera Bouffe, showing the Champagne Supper
at Midnight and that Awfully Jolly Trip to
Botany.” [This lecture, perhaps the most in-
teresting of all, to be illustrated by oxy-
hydrogen light lantern.]
“ The Young Man on the Turf.”
“ The Young Man and his Little Bill with Moses.”
“ The Young Man in the Forger’s Dock,”
“The Young Man in the Gaol Hospital,”
“ The Young Man in the Infirmary Dead-house.”
New Zealand is in a condition of supreme
ecstacy over the latest achievement of its great
mutton millionaire, the Hon. William Robinson,
better known from the Bluff to the North Cape xxs
Ready-Money-R., a member of the Legislative
Council, and proprietor in fee simple soul and body
of several menxbers of the Lower House, and also
the owner of several counties in the provinces of
Canterbury, Nelson, and Max-lborough. This hon-
orable gentleman, who has monopolised an im-
mense territox-y of the best land in the colony, on
which he gx-azes two or three shepherds and half a
million sheep, for whose convenience and his own
he wants the colony to build a railway through his
vast estate (and, of course, give him heavy com-
pensation for the land requix-ed for the line), has
distinguished himself in another way, and sent a
thrill of joy from one end of New Zealand to the
other. While Christchurch and other centxes of
population are in a state of bankruptcy, despair,
and soup-kitchens, owing to tlm extent to which
land has been grabbed by the squatters, the
Honorable Ready*Money Robinson ooraos for-
ward like a true philanthropist and announces to
the starving immigrants the discovery by him of a
now edible in the shape of a species of antipodean
periwinkle, which may be gathered in great abun-
daxxce on the sea shoi-e—of course, on one of his own
estates. The New Zealand newspaper fellows have
x-aised a perfect chorus of rejoicing and panegyric
over this great discovex-y, and we anticipate hear-
ing soon that the Hon. William Robinson has issued
invitations to the hungry sex-ibes to a glorious
symposium of periwinkles, potatoes—and “ point.”
At Wagga, in the cemetery. A lady and
gentleman, and a Germaix. The gentleman plucks
a flower to show the lady how small a slip will
gx-ow when put in the gxound. The German, who
appears to have been a gx-ave-digger, or grave-
dweilei-, or something equally lively, advances and
abuses the pair with nil the obscene language no
can lay bis Teutonic tongue to. They apologise,
but ho continues. The gentleman remarks that if
it were any other place ho would thrash this
German., Now, here is the point we want to come
to. We don’t see why a man shouldn’t fight in a
graveyard if he is insulted there. For our own
part, wo woixld tight in a moi-gue if we thought
there would be any fun in it. People make love
in graveyards. We have seen them. In fact, we
may as well admit that we have made love in a
cemetery oux-selves before now; and a nice, quiet
place it is, too, for such a purpose. Dead men,
you know, tell no tales. And it is one of the
most piquantly pleasing experiences you can pos-
ibly have, to lean back against a nice, clean tomb-
stone, draw her hand down upon your right
shoulder, so that her wavy hair brushes your
cheek, and then think about the envy of the dead
men below. If you want to add a little more gloom
in the way of a tonic to your sensations, just con-
centrate your thoughts upon the idea that pro-
bably the worms that will make a sieve of your
handsome person are just being born in the clay
under you. This is the way we like to make love.
When we are courting we like to be in close
contiguity to death, because it is fortifying to
know that you have one sure way of escape open
to you. But we have wandered from the lighting.
[That will do; we have had blood enough for one
week. Give us a peaceful paragraph for a change.
—Ed. B.].
Much is being said about the divulging by
telegraph clerks of the contents of racing messages,
but in all that has been written about the matter
so far, neither the advocates nor those who accuse
them are correct. The question is this: Why
should it bo necessary to employ the clerks to work
a swindle ? The legal penalty for disclosing tele-
graphic secrets is six months in gaol. Therefore,
an operator would naturally think twice before he
risked his liberty, even for a large consideration.
If any clerks are suspected, what is simpler than
to lay a convicting trap for them ? The practice of
allowing persons to call telegraph officials outside
on the landing for a moment’s “private conversa-
tion,” should at once be stopped, and so also
should that of allowing these clerks to bet as freely
and as largely us some are known to do. And it
would be well to inquire also if any of the heads of
the department set this bad example. But there
is no apparent necessity for fastening the recent
“Sting 1 ’ scandal on the operating clerks at all.
There was no earthly reason why more than three
officials—viz., the manager, the receiving clerk,
and the booking clerk—should know the contents of
that message. When a messenger receives a tele-
gram on an important race-day for delivery to a
well-known racing man, he can safely wager that
it contains racing information. Moreover, he is ac-
tually guided by signal letters on the face of the en-
velope as to the place from which the message comes
When he sees the letter A, for example, he knows
that “wire” is from Melbourne, when he sees B he
knows it comes from Brisbane, and any lad feeling
interested knows S A is Adelaide. Some of these
boys (who are in reality entrusted with as much
responsibility as any operator) receive the princely
sum of £2 per month, and very often half of that
is stopped in fines. Nothing, therefore, is easier
than for one of these lads to procure a duplicate
envelope, open and read a message, and then en-
close it again in the envelope prepared. And five
sovereigns to a boy earning 10s. a week is certainly
a slight consideration. But there is still another,
and a far more serious cause of danger to the
secrecy of this service. Owing to a cheese-paring
policy on the part of the State, the Morse
“sounders” in all our suburban telegraph offices
are fixed in the same room, and frequently quite
close to the counter used by the general public.
Now there are certain persons in all the colonies
who were once telegraph experts, but are now en-
gaged in other employments, and all these persons
have to do to secure the secrets flashing along the
wires is to pretend to be writing a message for
ti’ansmission, while all the time they are copying
“by sound,” everything of interest that is going
along the line. In some cases this can be actually
done by persons standing on the pathway, and in
nearly all our country telegraph offices the re-
cording instruments are as conveniently placed
for the ears of the outside public as they are for
those of the operators. So long as the present
slipshod system of affairs is carried on, many of
the telegraph ticks are in danger of becoming as
public as the conversation in a barber’s shop.
We know Hop Bitters are above and be-
yond all as a nutritious tonic and curative. Read
thoroughly the
The premises of Robert Carter, jeweller*
of Collms-street, Melbourne, wore burgled last
week, and £2000 worth of stock removed. No clue.
Stipendiary: “Why this is the twentieth
time I’ve sent you up for the same offence.” Pri-
soner : “Yes, your Worship; I’ve the courage of
my convictions.”
Mr. Darley acknowledged, the other even-
ing, that two years ago ho advised that the use of
steam motors on tramways was illegal. Yet, al-
though for several months he was a member of the
most powerful Government with which the coun-
try has been cursed, he kept his knowledge a
secret. In the estimation of Mr. Darley, it may be
“ wholesome fun ” for a politician occupying a
position in which he is supposed to do his best to
conserve the public interest, to give his sanction
to an illegal action on the part of the Government,
which might involve them in damages to the ex-
tent of millions of pounds; but the majority of
the public will think otherwise.
Mudgee Taylor would seem to have ex-
posed a nice little “ happy family ” arrangement.
There has been a vacant captaincy in the
Permanent Artillery Force for several months.
Six lieutenants are candidates for the position. A
severe test examination was held by four of the
chief military officers, the percentage of marks
required for a “ pass ” being two-thirds instead of
half as heretofore. Two of the candidates were
plucked. The appointment rested with the Go-
vernor; and, in due course, the names of the suc-
cessful candidates were submitted to him. He
r used, according to the long M.P., all sorts of frivol-
ous objections against them, and was about to
appoint one of the unsuccessful men, when the then
Colonial Secretary threatened to resign. “Now, that
we have a new Government, the Governor,” alleges
the Giraffe;, “ is trying the same dodge a remark
which the Speaker held to be disrespectful to the
representative of the Sovereign. The reason
assigned for the Governor’s desire to subvert
merit is that ho promised the first vacancy to an
aide-de-camp who acted for him without pay.
The most amusing part of the business has not
yet been stated. Failing to gain his will by any
other pretext, the Governor, so says Adolphus, is
anxious to upset the examination on the ground
“that it was not severe enough,” Yet his protigi
failed to pass it. Meanwhile this officer, whoever
he may be—the Giraffe refused to mention names
—is being “ coached” vigorously, so that if another
examination be held he may stand a chance of
being able to puss it. Mr. Stuart says that the
matter is under his consideration, and meanwhile
it would not be advisable to produce the papers.
The documents will be looked forward to with
some interest.
QUONG TART,
AT THE COFFEE PALACE.


XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX'
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
goods are really selling astonishingly XX
ad it is wonderful where they
last, and
all go to.
Also 5 cases of beautiful coloured
Moirt Satins, lovely shades and mag*
niflcent goods, and the price is only
2s 6d. See them to-day. Only think,
20 yards of these splendid goods for
£210s.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
DRESS DEPARTMENT.
Tartan Dresses in all colours. Six-
teen cases opened this morning.
They have not been in the colony
live days. They are now on the
tables for your inspection. These
goods are fresh, warm goods, and
all the rage. Now is the time to pro-
cure a good winter dress of fashion-
able and scarce material. Not only
have we the tartans and the plain
to match, which is a great advan-
tage, as you know, but the selfsame
stuff in plain and checks. Come
and see. A remarkable lot of 8
cases of grand stuff. The value is
astonishing—it is only 7id, and the
stuff is undoubtedly worth Kid at
the very least. Come and see them
to-day or to-night.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
MANCHESTER DEPARTMENT.
We would also call your attention
to-day and to-night to our magnifi-
cent display of these goods in our
northern window. You can't walk
past our shops in Pitt-street without
stopping to look at this window.
You can’t. No, you can’t.
Fleecy Blankets, whiter than the
riven snow.
Bath Blankets, Witney Blankets,
Extra Large Blankets.
Quilts for single beds, from 2s 3d.
What. 2s 3d ?
Quilts for double beds, from 5s lid.
Yes, 5s lid.
Blankets for single beds, from 4s
6d. That is so, 4s Od.
Blankets for double beds, from lls
9d. Come and see them; do.
Curtains, 2s lid Full-sized Cloth Table
Table Damasks Is Covers, 4s lid
Table Napkins, 3s
6d dozen Ticks, 4Jd
Cretonnes, 4Jd Calicoes,
Towels, 4Jd, and Hollands, 4d
every price above White Sheeting, Ojd
UNBLEACHED SHEETING, 6Jd.
Flannels, Old. This is the line for you.
You could scarcely believe how
much we are underselling other
shopkeepers in these goods.
Come in to-day, and judge for
yourselves, and If It is true, deal
here; and if it is not, don’t.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
HOSIERY DEPARTMENT.
This day opened, six cases of
Ladies’ Cashmere Hose, in black, seal
brown, navy, assorted marones, as-
sorted peacocks.
4 cases Children’s Cashmere Hose,
ribbed and plain, spliced knees, in
colours, black, seal brown, navy, and
assorted marones.
8 cases Children’s 3-4 Cashmere
Socks, with the now improved double
top, in navy, seal brown, black, and
assorted marone.
This is the shop to buy the hosiery
for the children. We have taken
great pains to ascertain just what is
required In these goods, and to meet
the requirements of the juveniles,
and have been entirely successful.
Bring the children in to-day and get
them set up for the winter.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
GLOVE DEPARTMENT.
Gentlemen’s kid and cloth gloves,
with fur and spring tops, good and
serviceable. The correct thing for
you.
Ladies’ long Jersey cashmere and
taffeta gloves, also with fur and
spring tops.
Children’s gloves in large variety,
very suitable for the present cold
weather. Poor little things 1 Keep
their dear little hands warm.
A beautiful new French kid, with
4 buttons, at 2s lid. Look at that
now. They arc grand value.
Jersey kid and Jersey silk in terra
cotta and crushed strawberry. See
these goods—there are a novelty.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
CARPET DEPARTMENT.
Grand patterns in tapestry carpets
from Is Old a yard,
Brussels carpets with borders, and
hearthrugs to match, Newest de-
signs in these goods.
The MORESQUE carpet.
See this beautiful carpet in our
window to-day.
Body Cloths for the floor, 9,12,15,
18 feet wide.
Undoubtedly the best, largest, and
cheapost Stock in Australia.
Linoleums, in 6 and 12 feet wide choice
patterns, and an immense stock.
BEDSTEADS, from 12s 6d to any num-
ber of guineas. A grand dis-
play of these goods in
OUR BEDSTEADS SHOWROOM,
We are the Government Contractors
for Carpets, Oilcloths, Linoleums, &c.
See our CARPET WINDOW TO-DAY.
HORDERN BROTHERS.
MEN’S and BOYS’ CLOTHING.
Men’s Tweed Suits, 20s, 25s, 30s, and up-
wftrds
Men’* Trousers, 7s lid, 8s lid, 9s lid, 13s,
and up
XX Boys’ Knicker Suits, 4s 9d, 6s 9d, 8s 6d, XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
and up
Dover Coats, 6s 9d, 8s 6d, 13s 6d
Men’s Hats, 2s lid, 3s lid, 4s 6d
Boys’ Hats, Is 6d, and all prices above
Men’s Shirts, Is Hd, 2s 3d, 2s 6d, and up
Working Shirts, double backs
Boys’ Shirts, Is 4d, 2s 3d
Grand stock of Men’s and Boys’ Hosiery.
UNDERCLOTHING.
CARDIGAN JACKETS.
CARDIGAN JACKETS.
The largest and best stock of these
goods in ALL AUSTRALIA.
See these Goods at our door TO-DAY.
OVERCOATS. OVERCOATS.
Men's Overcoats, 13s 6d, and up to £2 2s
Boys’ Overcoats at next to nothing.
COME IN TO-DAY,
We are ready for you any time.
Country orders promptly attended to.
Country customers write for patterns
of anything; it will cost you nothing.
We send them free.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT.
TAILORING DEPARTMENT.
We fit you like a glove. Yes, like a glove.
Como in and see our tweeds, and our
imported cutter.
Our only Address is
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211. PITT-STREET,
ONLY.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXTLXXXXXXXXXXZX
city ns hot
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS-
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1353,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner A la Ituxae, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHIL-
DREN —re Queen’s Statue Demonstration —under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 13.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS
Hall.
RECEPTIONS, Town
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exhi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER,
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner A la Rums at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem-
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD,
Dinner d la Rmse to the INTERCOLONIAL RIFLE
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKES-
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
Banquet at CAMDEN, Tramway Opening.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban-
quet for W0: MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evening,
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
Dinner to the PRESBYTERIAN SYNOD.
Breakfast to the CONGREGATIONAL SYNOD.
ST. VINCENT’S Hospital Ball.
THE MERCANTILE Rowing Club Ball.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Rushs in the N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN-
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners,
Feasts, Weddings. Garden Parties, Balls, Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &c.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, COMPLAINT, WEAKNESS, &o.
PRICE..
s. 6d.
A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, &c.,
43 ERSKINE STREET ; and
W. H. SOUL, Pitt Street.
KOUMISS! KOUMISS!
THE GREAT MILK DIET.
CURES
Diabetes
Bright’s
Disease
Consumption
&o. &c.
CURES
Indigestion
Heartburn
Debility
.to
&c. &c.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
E®' 1 " KOUMISS Is not a quack remedy, but la
proscribed and used by all the leading Physicians,
and will POSITIVELY CURE the above complaints.
Wo cordially invite the public to call at our office,
BOND STREET, and judge for themselves
of the EXTRAORDINARY TESTIMONIALS al-
ready to hand from well-known citizens. Reference
is permitted to all the leading Physicians, also to
the following: The Lady Superintendent Children's
Hospital; Rev. G. Macarthur, King’s School, Para-
matta; Alderman R. Butcher, Mayorjof Woollahra;
Duncan M‘Kay, Esq., Whlttlngham; Augustus
Morris, Esq.; Rev. J. J. Carroll, St. Augustine's,
Balmain ; Rev. Z. Barry, St. Matthias’, Woollahra;
Capt. Rountree, Balmain, and many others.
NEW YEAR, In EW YEAR—FURNITURE, FUB
NITURB.—How to make your homes com
fortable. Why. is to call at H. LEVY & CO.’
CENTRAL FURNISHING ARCADE, 20, 31, and 3
Park-street, where you can get every dcscriptlo
of Furniture, Bedsteads, Bedding, and every rt
quisite for housekeeping. New Shipment of Good
just opened. Prices not to be equalled anywher
In the city. Come and judge for yourselves.
fl'IME PAYMENT, TIME PAYMENT. TIME
I PAYMENT.—H. LEVY and CO., Central Fur-
nishing Arcade, 29, 31, and 33, Park-street. The
only house in Sydney where you can furnish on
the New Time Payment System, from £10 to £1000.
No Bills of Sale. All Goods are Marked in Plain
Figures, and no deception.
Australian furniture. Australian
FURNITURE. We have a Splendid Assoi't-
ment of all the Newest Kinds and Shapes, at Prices
that will Defy Competition, on the New Time Pay-
ment System. H. LEVY and CO., CENTRAL
FURNISHING ARCADE, 29, 31,(ttid33 Park-street.
EVERY
MAN
SHOULD
READ
1
DR. M1KST0.VS NEW WORK.
A valuable book, describing how suffer-
ers from Nervous mid Physical Debility*
Mental Decay and all disorders result-
ing: from Excesses, Indiscretions or
Overwork, are permanently Cured
WITHOUT STOMACH MEDICATION.
Weak, nervous A impotent Men restored to
VIOOE, HEALTH AND MANHOOD.
Consultation and Book free. Address—
MAESTON EEMEDYOo., 359 George St.
SYDNEY.
TF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
supply you with the “ PAINLESS CORN
RELIEVER,” write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor. who will forward a bottle to all parts ef
Australasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address :-JOHN CLOWES,
One Milo Creek, Gymplc.
Mb. DeCourcv Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining 1 Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
speciality.— Ad vt.
In New Zealand a woman who had been
locked up for the murder of her husband was going
down to be tried for the crime. As she left the
prison in charge of an officer a shower of slippers
came down around her, and a number of slipperless
women prisoners wished her “ God speed and good
luck.” The solicitor who defended her has a
splendid reputation in his city, and although
things looked dark for her she had the good luck
to be acquitted. Her lawyer took the credit to
himself, but it would be difficult to make the
woman believe that the slippers did not play an
important part in bringing about the verdict ‘ Not
guilty.”
In Sandhurst, the other day, two female
neighbours had a quarrel. This of itself was, of
course, unusual enough, but the sequel was more
unusual still. Women have, no doubt, quarrelled
before now, and there are fair grounds for believ-
ing that ladies’ misunderstandings will continue
until the earth,dike her attendant satellite, becom es
an uninhabited waste, aimlessly wandering through
space in company with a licentious comet which
tempted her to break the tie so long binding her to
her “ lusty paramour,” the sun—m other words,
“as long as there’s a tail on a cat.” Well, about
this “ muss.” One of the parties asserted that the
other, being an “Atheist, ’ could not be sworn.
Counsel, of course, jumped at the objection, but
the “Atheist ” was also up to snuff, and a pinch or
two over, so she stoutly maintained that an oath
was one of the few things she really believed in
and loved. The more one thinks of her answer
the more one’s admiration grows for this singularly
wide-awake latitudinarian. Had Bradlaugh had
this poor person’s savee, he would now be
“ chiackingthe Established Church from his
place in the Commons.
The following extract from a letter to Miss
Lydia Hastings, the elocutionist, explains itself,
and will be read with general interest“ I received
one year’s instruction in vocal music from the
celebrated Signor Gorcia, in London, and for some
time have been taking lessons from a very promi-
nent professor in this colony; both of these gentle-
men complimented me on the quality and manage-
ment of my voice. Believing my voice had not
been developed in its capacity by any system I had
tried, I determined (upon seeing your advertise-
ment), to try your System of Voice Building; and
to my astonishment, in the first lesson I learned
that I had not known how to breathe properly, or
how to use the vocal organs to advantage, and
knew nothing whatever of vocal gymnastics; but
now, after only a few lessons, I find my voice to be
one half stronger and more easily controlled than
I began with you, and my articulation has so much
improved that I feel my singing is not mere ‘ songs
without words,’ and the practice of your System
has much improved my general health. I take
pleasure in expressing my thanks to you, and,
were it in ray power, would make known to all the
singers and vocal students in the colonies the happy
and rapid results I have derived from your instruc-
tions. I am sure they would be glad to know of it,
to take advantage of your stay here. Believe me,
very sincerely, your favoured friend, Mrs. K.
Atkinson, 103 Queen street. To Miss Lydia
Hastings, 98 Hunter-street. Sydney, April 3rd,
IQQQ >> ♦
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Hordern brothers,
211 PITT STREET (Only).
MANTLE DEPARTMENT.
We would direct the special atten-
tion of the ladies of Sydney and the
country to our magnificent stock of
Mantles, Ulsters, Costumes, Fur
Capes, Clouds, &c.
we have never before been able
to offer the public such immense
bargains as we are showing to-day.
Just arrived and just opened—
250 Tel-el-Kebir Mantles, various
prices.
250 Four-in-Hand Mantles, in tartan
and plain.
250 Langtry Mantles, exquisite
shapes.
250 Sara Bernhardt Mantles, beau-
tiful goods.
20 Cases Wool Squares, beautifully
tinted.
300 Dolman Ulsters, in all sizes and
improved shapes.
A small lot of Langtry Ulsters,
double breasted.
All these grand goods are on view To-
XX day, at
XX
xx
XX SILK DEPARTMENT.
XX Just opened this morning, 5 Cases
XX of Tartan Foulard Silks. Just the
XX thing you want, and don’t know
XX where to get it. These are the very
XX latest productions, and the nicest
XX goods we have seen. Those ladies
XX who are fruitlessly endeavouring to
XX procure Tartan Ribbons, in dark
XX colours, will do well to see these
XX goods, as they will answer admirably
XX for trimmings, sashes, and all pur-
XX poses for which ribbons are used.
XX This parcel we really feel proud of
XX being able to show to the ladles of
XX parcel of 13 cases of Vel-
XX veteen at Is 9d. These well-known
day, at
HORDERN BROTHERS’.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Reverends, Right Reverends, Very Rever-
ends, and Rather Reverends, including' Bishop
Moorhouse, are apt to charge the rising generation
with irreverence, simply because some freethmk-
ing young men of the period don’t reverence the
Reverends. It is not so much a question of re-
vering the Truth, as of falling down and worship-
ping that which certain hierophants have sot up
for the Truth.
Auguste Comte regularly observed a sacra-
ment. It was a supper, but not the Lord’s supper.
Every dav he took a crust of bread and a cup of
water. “ I take this,” he said, “ in memory of the
millions who have nothing but a crust and a cup.
Which is the nobler picture—the above, or that of
a wealthy communicant drinking a cup of intoxi-
cating wine in memory of the great Socialist who
exhorted all such as he to give their wealth to the
poor ?
This will interest Mr. Spicer and the con-
troversialists of the Herald A horrible dis-
covery is said to have been made by the Old Testa-
ment revisers. The word “ rib ” in the second
chapter of Genesis, used in describing the creation
of Eve, ought more correctly to be rendered
“ tail 1” This is, indeed, confirmation strong of the
theories of Darwin. Again, the “ravens” which
fed Elijah were not ravens at all, but gypsies,
and so another cherished illusion is dispelled.
Yes, that indeed was tall talk on the part of
iubileeing Congregationalism, when it announced
ore rotunda that it was Congregationalism who had
“ struck the yoke from the slave, emancipated the
Catholics, and destroyed the corn laws and the
taxes on knowledge.’’ But why in the name of
St G. A. Lloyd didn’t they fix up the climax pro-
perly by the addition of “ and founded the Sydney
Morning Herald and created the Echo ?” But
it is a largish order even without the suggested
additions. As for the truth of it-well, when
the golden-mouthed Jeftens can prove that
Brougham, Jtotnilly, Macaulay, Wilberforce, Cob-
den, Bright, Charles Villiers, Perronet Thompson,
Peel, and Co. were every jack-man of them Con-
gregationalists, why then we will turn the matter
over again and look at it under such new and pecu-
liar a light.
The breadth of the Rev. J. Jefferis’s creed
is so broad as to out-latitudinise latitudinarism.
He will get stoned it he doesn’t mind by some of
the narrow men of his flock—by some McCoy or G.
A Lloyd—for he says:—“I will not suffer myself to
be cut off from communion with Tertullian and
Origen, Arius and Pelagius, Irving and Channing,
whatever their heresy may have been. I own my
Indebtedness to Athanasius and Augustine, to
Pascal and John Henry Newman, as well as to
Luther and Calvin, to Baxter and Taylor. I honour
the unparalleled self-devotion of Francis of Assisi
and of Francis Xavier, freely joining them in ever
grateful memory with Wesley and Whitfield,
Martyn and Moffat. I know the errors some of
them maintained, and the ills some ot them
wrought. But I hail them as sharing in the spirit
of the Master, as having taken up the cross and
followed after Christ.” John Osborne prays to be
delivered fj»Hi-them that seek after Leesing.
We have just been reading of a “gorgus
affair”—the lying-in-state and funeral ot the late
Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon. Rooms hung with
velvet and gold embroidery, soldiers in dazzling
uniforms (how long would either stand a winter
campaign?), kings, dignitaries, pastoral rings,
regiments of lancers and brass-helmeted cuiras-
siers gaily-caparisoned mules bearing crimson-
robe’d priests surrounded by halberdiers, carriages
of gold and silver, masses, music, mummery—and
all in honour of a mediocre old man, or to give
him a lift on his way to heaven. “ My gorge rises
at it.” What has he done for mankind that he
should be so honoured ? Has he extended the
bounds of our knowledge, helped to reduce the
mass of Ignorance and poverty still existing, en-
deavoured to make man more tolerant or merciful
towards his weaker fellow, or carried out one of
the precepts of the Gentle Nazarene he professes
to follow ? Not at all. Reading of his obsequies
and of those of Charles Darwin makes one smile
“ saweastlc like,” and feel that old Thiers was not
go wrong, after all, when he said, “The world
knows little of its greatest men.”
The Rev. Dr. Stuart, of Dunedin, is a
Presbyterian divine whose practice ot religion is a
long wav ahead of his preaching; and his preaching
Isn’t bad—far from it. Not long ago ho visited a
poor family, and found them m great poverty;
and having administered the consolations of re-
ligion. he promised to come back again with con-
solations of a more carnal nature. He was kept
engaged to a late hour the same evening with
business of a synodical description, and he had
luat reached his own fireside a little before mid-
night, and had his “ feet into slippers, his fire in a
blaze " when he remembered the family above
referred to. Forthwith he climbed into his boots,
which are big enough to kick an Episcopal divine
into the middle of next week, and a few minutes
saw him trudging along the streets with a heavy
bundle of blankets, tea, sugar, leg of mutton, loaf
of bread, and other unolenoal tiqfles on his Gram-
pian shoulders. Then the hobby of that vicinity,
who had just wakened from his first snooze on a
doorstep, and who was an Italian nobleman by
birth and parentage, started in pursuit, and yelled
out on the silent midnight air-“ Howld there, you
tkafe I Shtop there till I arrist yez in the Quane s
name, ye long-legget thafe and sou of a say cook.
And L took that learned divine a very long tune
to con vinos the intelligent officer of his(the divine’s)
identity- but, to the officer’s honour be it said,
when hi# understood the case, he helped the doctor
along with his burden, and kept awake all the
way.
Dicky M‘Coy, Dinsley, and other beatified
persons, continue their pious prosecution of
the Rev. George Osborne for saying that the
Scarlet Woman isn’t so red os she has been
tainted. A fresh summons, “signed” by Richard
Wcov Thomas R. Yeo, S. B. Lees, C. Bovis, George
Headframes Welch, John Wright, C.W. Caldwell,
John Caldwell, James Byrnes, and John R. Llnds-
Jev has been served on Mr. Osborne requiring him
to plead to a charge of being “erroneous in doc-
trine,” at a mixed district meeting in the York-
street Chapel, on the 33 th proximo. This summons
is nearly Identical with one previously served upon
Mr Osborne, in which he was charged with magni-
fying Roman Catholicism at the expense ot Pro-
tesmotisra, and with preaching doctrines con-
trary to Methodism, and which was ostensibly
signed bv the same eleven, and sent to the
President of the Wesleyan Conference. The
President declined to entertain the summons on
account of the vagueness of its charges. Of
the eleven trustee* who signed the document,
only two beard the sermon that was alleged to be
heretical. Two of the eleven confessed that they
had neither hoard the sermon nor read the brief
report of it that was published. Another sajd that
he had not only neither heard the sermon nor read
ifchA report of it. but that he had not oven troubled
himself to road the charges before signing thorn.
The President having declined to take action, the
prime mover in getting up the prosecution— it is
needless to say he belongs to the Orange Society-
determined to summon what is called a Mixed
District meeting, which can be called without the
authority of the Ministerial head of the Confer-
tsaee. Summonses were accordingly issued, bear-
ing the names of the eleven trustees who had
signed the previous document. It transpired, how-
ever. that several of these persons had not only
not signed their names to the second summons,
hut had given no authority to any one to sign on
their behalf. This little mistake, which is called
by an ugly name In law, necessitated, if the
ve*olve to prosecute was to be adhered to, the
Issuing of a fresh summons. Such summons
was sent to the clergymen in the district and
trustee# of the York-street Church, late last
week, and is the one first referred to. Mr.
Thomas B. Chapman, J.P., certifies that the
copies sent to the above mentioned gentlemen
are correct copies of a summons marked “ A,”
bearing date the 29th May, 18)13: but he wisely
avoids certifying that he witnessed any of the sig-
natures to the summons. While the original sum-
mons has doubtless been signed by the Orange sec-
tion ot the trustees, it is almost certain that others
of the trustees who signed the charges In the first
instance have not signed this last summons, There
is a proverb that “ Everything is fair in love and
war; ’ that proverb must now be extended by
the addition of the words “ and in Orangeism. ’
This persecution of a minister by ignorant men-
tor that the men who are the leading spirits in the
persecution are ignorant, all who know them are
ware—cannot possibly damage Mr. Osborne; but
it is doing serious damage to Wesleyan Methodism.
It is simply impossible for intelligent men to have
any feeling but that of contempt for a system in
which such bigotry and persecuting tactics can
be allowed, without any attempt being made
to interfere with them by the authorities of the
church. And if these trustees of the York-street
church are a sample of Methodist laymen—and it is
a fair inference that they are; seeing that that
church has been for nearly fifty years the most in-
fluential centre in New South Wales Methodism,—
unless it speedily undergoes radical changes, Wes-
leyanisra can never become an elevating power in
the community.
• • *
Booksellers suffering severe loss through
the Revised Edition having fallen comparatively
dead on the market A learned Hebrew, who
doesn’t believe in either Bright or Spicer, says the
Mosaic word haarets is often used in the sense ot
region or country, and that Moses, speaking of the
deluge, probably used it to express only the part
of the globe that was then peopled, But then why
didn’t Moses say it in plain language ?.... A subur-
ban clergyman, annoyed by some grinning doods
in the front seats, paused in his sermon and said:
“ I scarcely like to reprove anyone in my church,
because I once administered rebuke to a youth
who was giggling and grimacing beneafh me, and
afterwards I found he was an idiot. Since then I
have been afraid to reprove persons who misbe-
have, lest I repeat my mistake.” — London Times,
speaking of Bradlaugh’s acqnlttal, says:— We
may well doubt whether an appeal to the criminal
law to put down blasphemy can ever bo well
judged. Its first and most obvious effect is to give
publicity to matter which would otherwise escape
public notice The members of the Bega School
of Arts have decided by a majority of three to one
to open their institution on Sundays.


WOMAN ITEMS.
It is rumoured that Gladys, Lady Lonsdale,
will shortly be married to “thehandsomest man in
London ” —Sir John Lister Kaye, Baronet. Sir John
stands six feet three, is a keen sportsman, a dead
shot, a straight man on the turf, as good a whist
player as the Marquis of Hartington, and a gentle-
man sans peur et sons reproehe. They will make a
handsome couple, and the Prince Is pretty sure to
attend the wedding. Gladys, Lady Lonsdale, is a
Herbert of Lea: and If Kaye had not neglected
politics, he could have counted on a good appoint-
ment. Sydney Lord Herbert of Lea was one of
the earliest and most intimate friends of Mr. Glad-
stone, and the Premier’s son the member for
Leeds is named after him.
Lecturing at Melbourne, the other night,
llev. Charles Strong said “ Think what power
woman is in society. We rise In her presence, wo
defer and bare our heads before her. Think what
a marvellous power over the wild and unruly a
woman has. The worst man that lives is awed in
the presence of a high-minded and noble lady.
And never does any man leave the society of such
without feeling that he is a bettor man.” That was
the ideal. Addressing the Melbourne Young Wo-
men’s Christian Association (which body, as the
S. M. Ribald correspondent observes, seems to be
of an aggressive character), Mrs. Varcoe prophe-
sied that “the time was coming when they would
rise up as a body of women, trample the devil
underfoot, rise against man’s usurpation of autho-
rity, and feel that man was not going to have his
own way altogether.”
BEFORE AND AFTER.
“ Did I step on your train ?”
“Nay, dearest, no matter!”
* My pet brown again—
Did I step on your train ?”
“ You wanted, 'tis plain,
An excuse, sir, to flatter!”
“ -Did I stop on your train ?”
“ Nay, my dearest I What matter ?”
“ Your foot’s on my gown”—
“ Well, it doesn’t much matter I”
“ You vandal I you clown 1
Your foot’s on my gown”—
“ Such an ugly, dull brown—
’TIsn’t worth all this chatter!”
“ Your toot's on my aown! ”
“ Well, what does It matter ?”
The last American census shows how
remarkably women have entered into the domains
of labour, other than the domestic, which so many
contend is the only sphere they are meant for.
Nearly one-third of the professional artists in the
United States are women, their precise number
being 3061. Of 1100 authors, ,130 are women. There
are 75 female lawyers, and 165 women have climbed
into the pulpit. Female physicians number 2433:
barbers, 3902; and printers. &c., 3466. Of 30,000
professional musicians, 13,000 are women; there are
53,000 female tailors, against 81,000 males; and
154,375 female teachers, against 73,335 moles. There
ore a few dentists, and a few commercial travellers
of the female persuasion. Of 13,308 journalists, 288
are women; and as correspondents and reporters
female scribes have advanced in certain linos to the
front rank. And yet there ax-e persons still alive
who Insist that woman is unsexed >vhen she tries
to do anything but bake deadly bread, stuff the
baby with paregoric, or work wool slippers for the
curate.
THE ASSASSINS’ FATE.
Lady Dixie sallied forth
With her St. Bernardle.
Many said the lady was
Awfully foolhardy.
But they didn’t know that dog
Dined each day on human
Flesh, and ate assassins raw,
Easily chewing two men.
Where arc now those murderous chaps ?
In the doggie’s inwards.
Such is e’er the fate of men
When they travel sinwards.
Just a little Langtry par, to show she’s
not forgotten. The excitement has abated its
red heat, but the Lily still causes lots of interest.
At Cleveland, her audience was large and fashion-
able; she played Galatea, and made a charming
statue. At Toronto, seats all sold beforehand,
averaging seven dollars each, and the people were
very pleased. She was called out again and again.
At last she kissed her hand to the audience and
said: “Instead of kissing my hand I wish I could
-iiss the lips of everyone present, so pleased am I
with your splendid reception.” N’yum! No
wonder! At Milwaukee, they said she was a
beauty, but, as an actress, “not lit to play to a
corporal's guard.” At Niagara, the zero climate
didn’t show her off to the best, and as far as her
ears and the tip of her lovely nose went, she was
decidedly more like a poppy than a lily. It was
no doubt this which caused the hackman who
drove her to the hotel, and on whom she failed to
make the usual impression, to record his opinion
thus: “ I heerd she wasn’t much on the act. Well,
now I’ve seen her, and I’ll be darned if she’s much
on the look either.”
A country editor thus slobbers over the
death of a subscriber’s (cash in advance) wife ;—
“ No greater loss could befal our respected towns-
man; for when a man loses his wife, ho loses all.”
Does he ? Now, when Job was stricken, his wife was
left with him simply to increase his misery. Eugene
.Sue says: “There is something to be dreaded
worse than a Jesuit, and that is a Jesuitess.” Euri-
pides tells men to “ bolt their doors from women’s
visits, for they do no good, but many evils.” And,
again, Solomon said (and he ought to have known),
“ One just man among a thousand I have found,
but not one Just woman.” There is, moreover, an
old Spanish jingle on the legend of “Orpheus,”
who offended the god of Gehenna, which runs—
‘ To find out a punishment due to his fault,
Old Pluto long puzzled his bx ain,
But hell had not torments sufficient he thought,
So ho gave him his wife back again.”
And again (to he continued in our next). [Memo to
printer : This is to go in an obscure corner.— Ed. B.l
[Memo by the Printer: There are no obscure cor-
ners in The Bulletin.]
People who have accustomed themselves
to accept the dictum that woman is physiologically
inferior to man, by reason of her smaller and
lighter brain, should think over what the London
World writes of the Queen :—“ She is a woman of
vast experience and of commanding powers. With
the exception of Mr. Gladstone, and in some points
xot even with the exception of Mr. Gladstone him-
self, the Queen combines with aptitude for, a
familiarity with an insight into, affaix-s, that are
absolutely unrivalled, and every one knows that,
if our present Sovereign had been born to an or-
dinary station in life, she would have made her
mark. Upon a given question it is pex-fectly cer-
tain that the judiciously-weighed opinion of the
Queen would bo as valuable ns that of any indivi-
dual in the United Kingdom.” Now, it is beyond
belief that such a chance should have occurred
that the woman born to the most distinguished
position In her generation should have been the
only able, or even the ablest woman of her day. It
follows therefore that, unless the World talks
the grossest flunkeyism, therei must be hosts of
women, who, were they trained to business, could
equal or surpass the best business men of the day,
just as the Queen equals or surpasses Mr. Glad-
stone.
Though it's not generally known, because
it’s done in a far more strategic way, many leading
actors are almost as much pestered by lovesick
females as actresses are by men. In America, a
remarkably handsome actor, Osmond Tearle, is
especially picked out as an object for fair woman’s
devotion. Hundreds worship him from afar off-
hundreds have his picture framed in velvet, where
they can kiss and look mooney at it every night
before saying their prayers and going to bed. In
his favour it must bo said that Tearle pays very
little heed to this vast amount of wasted wox-shlp.
Most letters, of couxse, ho gives no attention to;
but to one recently sent by some heart-stricken
maiden, whom he had unconsciously mashed, in-
quiring appealingly the colour of his “ fatal eyes,”
Osmond sent a neat reply: “ Dear Miss Blank,—In
reply to yours of 38th ult., I am unable to answer
your request, for sufficient reasons. In the first
place, I am colour-blind; in the second, I am of
such a bashful disposition I dare not look in the
glass long enough to ascertain the colour of my
eyes. I can only say, if you really must know,
your best plan will be to continue attending until
you find out the colour, and bring as many friends
as you can every night to help you to decide.—
Yours truly, Osmond Tearle.”
A well-known clubbist came home late the
other night, and his wife woke up and found him
with a burning match trying to light the cold-water
tap over the marble basin in his dressing-room.
“James,” she said, “ that is not the gasburnor. “I
know it now, my love,” he replied, unsteadily;
“fact Is, I’ve been overworked, and that’s the
reason I made a mistake.” “Yes, you look as if
you’d been lifting a good deal,” she quietly
answered, as she returned to her pillow From a
Diarbekir newspaper:—“ On Friday last a respect-
able married woman in Turkish Hlndostan gave
birth to a boy, who has forty fingers, thirty-two
teeth, and a moustache and beard. He snaps so
viciously at everyone that the doctors have re-
commended the drawing of four of his front teeth.”
— If Nebuchadnezzar s wife had died when he
was performing his great grazing act, ho would
have been the only genuine grass widower on re-
cord— A woman in France has christened her
baby Lucifer Satan Verclngetorix Chinamen
when they refer to their wives—which is as seldom
as possible—speak of them as “ My dull thorn,” or
“ The thorn in my ribs,” or “ The mean one of the
inner rooms.” Children similarly are styled “in-
sects” or “worms,” much as we say “chicks” or
“cubs.”. .An exchange says that there is a double-
tongued baby in Trenton, N.J. We suppose this
is another American invention “Grasp; or, a
Mother’s Love.” That strikes us as the wrong
reading. Should it not be : “ Grasp ; or, the
Mother-In-Law’s Game?” A Nelson newspaper
announced that on the holiday, a football match
would be played between 11 machinists and 11
dressmakers, on the Reserve. Particulars of the
game and costumes will no doubt duly arrive. A
correspondent states a similar game in the kicking
lino was once played at Paris. Not so far as we
can-can remember Madge says:—The very
nicest women are those who are happily married,
so sunny and womanly, so thoughtful for every
one, and not in the least “narrow.” I fancy, Amy,
dear, it is that fault of narrowness that makes
old maids such dreadful creatures. Their thoughts
run in little grooves, and new ideas seem to be
like so many difficult stiles to them, which they
fancy it would be indecent for them to try to
cross. No, Amy, I will not be an old maid.. .A cruel
report has been spread in Paris by an unpaid mil-
liner, who is trying to make us believe that Sara
has not a single hair on her head I “ Yes, a few
weeks ago the milliner took a hat to the Rue
Fortuny, and found Sara in bed without her hair.
Sara tried on the hat, and found it atrocious.
Then, when the milliner quietly suggested that
madame had forgotten her hair, ‘Hold, that is
just!’ exclaimed Sara, and planting her wig on her
denuded skull, she tried the hat on again, and
found that it suited her admirably.” This, how-
ever, is no doubt sheer calumny.
How is it that so many full-fledged Tas-
manian solicitors are glad to accept common law
clerkships in the offices of Sydney legal firms?
Dr. STANICH, Aurist (by appointment) to
His Excellency the Governor of New South Wales,
may be consulted on the Eye, Ear, and Throat
Diseases, at 50 WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
We commenced a little par. in last week’s
issue with these words:—“We have struck four
devoted wives lately.” As this may lead to mis-
conception, we beg to explain. We have only
struck one devoted wife lately. But we struck
her hard.
The National Review states that the
bedding in almost all the lower London registered
lodging houses is branded “Stolen from B’s” (or
whatever the name of the landlord may be). If
otlicc-kni ves, Inkstands, and other nick-nacks of the
bureau were similarly branded, such heavy requi-
sitions might possibly not be made with such
regular recurrence upon the “stores.” Treasurer
Dibbs might utilise the “ wrinkle,”
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[ We shall he glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
Coonamble J.C June?.
Co bar J.C June 7, 8.
Aramac J. C. (Q.) June 7, 8.
Mackay T.C. (Q.) June 12,13.
Central Warrego R.C. (Q.) June 13, 14.
Gayndah T.C. (Q.) June 18,14.
Walgett June 30, 21.
Wentworth J.C June 20, 21.
Lower Clarence T.C June 27.
Bowen T.C. (Q.) June 27, 28.
Barringun J. C June 28, 20.
Burke District J. C. (Q.) July 4, 5-
Barcoo R.C. (Q.) July 5, 6.
Clarence River J.C. Annual July 11. 12.
Rockhampton J.C. (Q.) July 12,13,
Denillquin J.C July 18.
Charters Towers J.C. (Q.) July 17,18.
South Warrego J.C July 18, 19.
Great Western Towns J.C. (Q.) July 18, 19.
V.R.C. Steeplechase Meeting July 21.
Victoria R.C. Winter July 21.
Goodiwindi Races July 25, 36.
Tattersall’s Club August 11.
Hawkesbury R.C August 23, 35,
A.J.C. Spring September 1, 4, 6, 8.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 13, 20.
Victoria R.C. Spring November 3,6,8,10.
Parramatta J.C. November 9.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
AQUATICS
Krug Champagne Cup June 16.
M.R.C. Scratch Fours June 28.
Glebe Rowing Club Amateur Regatta. July 14.
New South Wales Association Regatta . .October 6.
COURSING
Victoria Club June 30, July 18, August 22.
South Australian Club June 12, July 18.
Ballarat Club June 38, July 26, August 28.
N.8.W. Club June 28, July 31.
Australian dub June 14, July 37, August 39.
ATHLETICS.
Edwards v. O’Leary, C days’ walk July 9.
BICYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Sports August 4.
FOOTBALL.
South Melbourne v. Sydney Clubs, As-
sociation Ground July 7,10,12.
South Melbourne v. New South Wales,
Association Ground July 14.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Should the “ Professor ” pay America a
visit, he will no doubt find that the only “ draw ”
he can arrange with Sullivan will be the claret.
The best lifting performance now on record
is that of D. L. Dowd, who, on the 37th March last,
at Springfield, Massachusetts, U.S., raised 1442) lb.
of iron, without the aid of straps, harness, or other
appliance.
The eases in which the Adelaide Racing
Club and Joe Thompson, the bookmaker, are con-
cerned, came on for hearing in the Adelaide
Supreme Court on Friday, aud were adjourned
until the 11th June.
On March 24th, at Leicestershire Cricket
Ground, England, the fifty-mile blcyle champion-
ship was won by F. De Civry, the champion of
France, in 3h 13min 40sec, aad a ten-mile spin was
appropriated by R. Howell, in 33mln 34 l-5sec.
The V.R.A., in reply to a letter from Mr.
Fittes asking if it was desired he should represent
Victoria in the Krug sculling race, have replied
that they are willing he should do so, but they
regret the “sugar” is not forthcoming to pay his
expenses.
O’Leary, according to the Ameriean papers
gives as his reason for visiting Australia the fact
that “ he was losing his hair, and was prescribed a
voyage in a sailing vessel.” Daniel kept his hair
on very well in this country. He didn’t walk fast
enough to blow it off.
Following the lead of the V.R.C., the Ade-
laide Racing Club have resolved to impose an
annual registration foe of £1 upon all jockeys
riding on their course; the proceeds to form a
fund for the benefit of any of their number inca-
pacitated by sickness or accident.
At a set-to between Mace and Slade at
Pittsburg (U.S.), the show was so tame that an old-
timer in the audience yelled out: “Now, Jim, go
for him: hit him in the ribs once.” And another
offered to back Sullivan to knock Slade out in four
rounds, but without response.
There ia joy in the land once more.
Edwards has again challenged O’Leary. All we
want now to cause our cup of ethereal bliss to be
filled to the brim, and slop over into the saucer is
to hear that O'Leary has again challenged Edwards,
that Laycock Is willing to pull Perkins, that “ Dr.”
Botterell is about to lecture on Genesis, and that
Spicer is going to knock out Bright in four rounds.
John L. Sullivan, the pugilistic wonder
upon whom the American public has fixed its
affections, took no less than £3634 at his Boston
benefit in April last, and this whilst the Maco-Slade
combination could hardly clear bare expenses.
Whatever “ Sully” may do when opposed to a foe-
man of fairly-tested merit, ho has proved himself
the best pugilistic showman the world has ever
produced.
T. W. Eck is credited with jumping ten
feet two inches backward, standing-jump, level
ground, using weights (presumably 12 lb. dumb-
bells), at an Exhibition given at tne Athenaeum
Gymnasium, Chicago, 111., April 13. Eck was re-
ported to have cleared the same distance at the
same place, April 30, 1881, but it was done from a
take-off elevated one inch.
Adelaide races, Thursday last. Attendance
small, and course very heavy. Appended are the
results:—Selling Race : Monsoon, Cybele, Lawn.
Flutter : Tocal, Larpcnt, Duchess of Albany,
Tramway Handicap: Coriolanus, Brigand, Turret-
field. Steeplechase; Abdallah, Chrysalis, Taraxa-
cum. City Handicap: Irishman. Transferred, For-
lorn. Corinthian Stakes: Triplet, Footstep, Leap
Year.
The attempt to destroy the racehorse Ter-
minus has some points in common with the das-
tardly act of poisoning Chevalier, some years since,
at Roma. In the latter case, a billiard-marker and
general exponent of the art of “ living on the best”
turned Carey on a namesake of the notorious Dub-
lin informer, with the enchanting alias “ Tom the
Devil” attached. The Devil got seven years, the
former his liberty, and turned up later in the
Sydney Police Court as one of the defendants in a
notorious case.
The Edwards-0’Leary combination have
worked up the agony for another match, which Is
to start on 9th July, for £350. John Raynor, who
styles himself “48-hours champion,” has written a
letter to the Melbourne Sportsman stating that he
has offered to put ki £350 with the “ combination,”
and make the affair a sweepstakes; but wo do not
think they will accept. . Like Sullivan, the Ameri-
can champion pugilistic money-grubber, who is
inundated with offers of partnership, they like to
keep the game all to themselves.
At a yearling sale at Adelaide, Helene, a
sister to The Assyrian, brought 700 guineas, Mr. R.
Lowe being the purchaser. Illusion, by Country-
man, from Deceptive—the dam of Delusion-
realised 430 guineas, Mr. J. Leek, of Victoria, secur-
ing this prize; a, brother to Lady Jervols brought
95 guineas; Duchess of Albany, 330 guineas; and a
colt from Actress, 165 guineas. The following
blood stock was also sold: First Water, to T. Barn-
field, 300 guineas; Uproarious, to M. Jacobs, 115
guineas; Brooker, to J. Hill, 130 guineas; Light-
foot, to E. Weeks, 33 guineas; and the following
were passed in—Savanaka, 300 guineas; Topaz, 360
guineas; First Love, 190 guineas; Hurricane, 90
guineas; also Totalisator,
The Mudgee race meeting on Thursday
and Friday was very successful. Weather fine on
both days, and attendance good. Subjoined are
the results:—Thursday.—Welter Handicap: Victor
1, Caspiau 3, Harkaway 3. Victor won by a short
head. Time, 3min. 33sec. Tattersall’s Racing Club
Handicap: Byron 1, Boniface 3, Tait 3. Time, 3min.
17sec. Shorts Handicap: Forest King 1, Wheel of
Fortune 3, Wingadee 3. Time, Imin 30sec. Railway
Purse: Twelve fears 1, Tait 3, The King3. Friday.
—Flying Handicap: Soldier Boy 1, Emulation - 3,
Wheel of Fortune 3. Time, Imin. 48%sec. District
Purse Handicap: Twelve Years 1, Tail 3, Emulation
3. Time, 2min. Slisec. Cudgegong Plate: Forest
King 1, Byron 3, Boniface 3.
In regard to the proposed siugle-soull race
between Wallace Ross and Edward Hanlan for the
championship of the world, HanJan writes to the
Police Gazette as follows: —“I have already
com eded 1500dol. to Ross in stakes. Seeing that he
was not able to raise 3500dol., I consented to row
him for lOOOdol., each man to pay his own expenses,
the race to be rowed in Montreal waters, and the
winner to take the stakes and receipts. These are
the terms of my race with Kennedy, except that
the stake is 3500dol. a side. If Ross really wants to
row me let him agree to submit the difference to
arbitration, and then cover my forfeit of 500dol.
now up. I will pull him on any water between
Toronto and St. Johns that ia wide enough for one
boat to pass another.”
Says an American paper:—“The Penal
Code makes It unlawful to catch fish on Sunday.
Strong efforts have been made of late to amend
the code so that it might prove no hardship to the
disciples of Isaak Walton. The Senate favoux-od
the amendment, but the Assembly refused to con-
cur. Is this wise ? There are many men who will
not go fishing on any day but Sunday, and there
are many more who cannot go on any other day.
There are many men who, so far a« is known, are
fit for nothing else than to go fishing. Whether
they are anchored in a boat out in the stream, or
sitting with their legs dangling over the string-
piece of some pier, they are delighted: and so is
the community from which they thus absent them-
selves. If they are denied the privilege of killing
time with rod or drop-line, they may discover a
method of entertaining themselves that will give
their neighbours much les« pleasure than the latter
have heretofore enjoyed. There is no sense in a
code that would deprive a man, whether fisherman
or fisherman’s stay-at-home neighbour, of the
only enjoyment he has in life, and then Imprison
him if he is unsuccessful in his attempt at suicide.”
The latest issue to hand of the Sporting
Life contains the followingA reaction against
the hasty action of the House of Commons on the
second reading of Mr. Anderson's Cruelty to Ani-
mals Bill is beginning to show itself. Mr. Warton
has given notice on the motion for going into com-
mittee on the Bill to move ‘ That, inasmuch as no
greater animal suffering is necessarily involved in
the liberation of an uninjured pigeon from a trap
than in the flushing of a wild bird from a covert,
and inasmuch as punt-fishing, while necessitating
the cause of suffering, does not demand a higher
degree of skill, courage, energy, or endurance
than pigeon-shooting, this House, while anxious to
lessen as far as possible the suffering inflicted upon
animals by the pursuit of sport, declines to pro-
hibit the practice of pigeon-shooting while it
leaves intact that of game-shooting and that of
rod-fishing.’ In addition to the notice of amend-
ment given by Mr. Warton, Colonel Tottenham
has given notice to move the rejection of the Bill.
Should that motion fail, the same hon. member
will, in Committee on the Bill, move tile following
amendment: ‘That bird-shooting from traps shall
be permitted in places specially for the
purpose, under the supervision of an official to be
appointed by the Secretary of State tor the Home
Department; the salary of such official to be fixed
by the Secretary of State, and to be paid out of
the funds of the club or other establishment so
licensed. Any conviction for cruelty under this
Act, or default in payment of such salary by the
person to whom the license is issued, to cause the
forfeiture of lioeuse.’ ”
WHAT IT WILL COME TO!
(The Mistress, having heard three rings at the front door, goes to open it.)
Housemaid: Oh, please m’m, if that’s anybody for me, I’m not at home.


Right is might, and wrong is dyna-mite.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtalnr-1
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly v >>
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors i>>
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establlshmem
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfanlert's Hole:
Here the manufacture of every essential in tin*
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
Is a compact little factory where all the requisite-
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whosn
only address is as above) are always pleased in
show their specimens of artificial teeth to thos»'
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by nayim-
particular attention to the Christian name, Adofplx
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlen »
Hotel.— Advt.
TJUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET-
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Ok, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP
Thus the S.F. Newsletter “ It is very-
much to be doubted whether Sullivan, the penitent
pugilist, collapsed from drink and hemorrhage of
the lungs and calmly receiving the last rites of the
church, or Sullivan, the brawny bully, boasting
that he could knock all mankind out of time, is
the less edifying spectacle. In order to find out
how the * profession ’ in San Francisco felt over
the great loss to the bruising fraternity, we
interviewed a light-weight champion, who said in
substance: ‘Ihaxnt felt so bad since mi bull pup,
’Arry, took sick, being plzened by a rat as he ate.
Hoh ! my blooming heyes, wot a helegant man
Sullivan was. Hi’d ’ave stood hup and seen ’im
nock my hown farther hout, as weighed fourteen
stun, and backed ’1m to do it hevery pop. Wen I
’card of ’is hillness, hit cut me to the ’art, and mi
gin, as has halways hagreed with me ’itherto, cum
right hup. But that ’ere priest wot fixed 'im hup
for ’evln was a daisy hany way, and I’d bet a piece
as ’ow afore he took to plarsterlng consciences he
could plarster a man’s mug pretty ’ard.’ And the
broken-hearted slogger turned sadly away and bit
a bull pup in the ear to conceal his emotion.”
A couple of Chinese firms write jointly to
the Riverine Star with reference to a statement
made by the W. W. Advertiser, to the effect that
two Mongolian gambling banks, into which un-
warv youths were entrapped, had been established
in Wagga twelve months, and that one of the
bankers had In that time netted £700. The writers,
“ Kin Lee and Chu Lee and Co.” (heaven alone
knows how many of them are in it), put their case
thus;—“The banks, of which there are two, have
only been opened for five months, and one of
these has lost £70 [Here we cough gently, and lay
our finger on our nose.— Ed. B.], while the other is
but what Englishmen call square.” “At Sydney,”
proceed those childlike and bland innocents,
“there are eleven of these establishments, in
Narandera three, in Bourke and Hay one each,
while in Victoria there are any number you may
choose to mention.” This, no doubt, will interest
Mr. Fosbery very much, should he have time to
notice it when he reads the papers at the Union
Club. “It Is not fair,” continue Kin Lee, &c., “for
a paper to print a sensational paragraph against
against us poor Chinamen, when it Is well known
that every English gentleman takes his ticket in
the race-lottery, enjoys his gambling at his club,
and does his little bit of hazard on the sly. If the
police find us out in anything dishonest, let them
put a stop to our games; but when Europeans are
allowed to gamble, why should not we ? At any
rate, we find that respectable Europeans do patro-
nise our lotteries, and wo can afford to laugh at
the strictures of such a paper as the Advertiser.”
John is evidently waxing cheeky. Hoo-ki-la ?
Miller, it is said, had an idea of going to
America and trying conclusions with Sullivan, be-
fore he heard of the latter’s illness; but as ho didn’t
manage to knock Foley out under a great many
rounds, it is doubtful whether the trip wouldn’t
have been a waste of time so far as his chances of
defeating the American were concerned. Foley is
no doubt a clever boxer, and as plucky a man as
ever stood on turf, and it may be urged that he is
nearly equal in weight to either Sayers or Mace at
their best. However, the latter were vastly dif-
ferent in build to the Sydney man, who looks more
like a pedestrian than a pugilist. Miller is certainly
the first good man Foley has met; for Sandy Ross,
clever as he was at rough-and-tumble, was utterly
devoid of science (when at his best we saw Andy
Byrnes beat him with gloves); Jackson was merely
a rough bush fighter, and Hicken was almost a worn
out man when they met. Should “ the Professor’
cross the Herring-pond, however, he would have
his hands full in his own line, as D. L. Dowd has
offered to lift weights with any man in the world.
Dowd has lifted 14001b. quite a number of times at
his gymnasium in Springfield, Mass. He is a re-
markably temperate man’in his habits; he believes
that the use of tobacco, liquors, and excesses of all
kinds weaken the muscular powers, and he is a
total abstainer from everything of the kind. He
says that no drink, save water, not even tea or
coffee, has passed his lips for eight years; and,
although a cigar-maker by trade, he has never
smoked nor used tobacco in any form. The M‘Cann
Brothers, Irish champion athletes, now in New
York, are also open to compete in feats of strength
against any two men in the world, for £50 or up-
ward. A dozen feats to be selected by either
party, with 561b. weights, heavy dumb-bells, iron
bars, etc.
Charles Mitchell, the champion boxer of
England, who recently went over to America
under the fostering care of Billy Madden, has
added to his fistic reputation by defeating Mike
Cleary, the second-best man in the “ States,” in a
glove contest on April 9, at the American Institute,
Philadelphia. Cleary never stood the ghost of a
show with the English champion, who completely
knocked him out of time In three rounds. In the
first and second, Mitchell banged his man when and
where he liked; as they came to the middle of the
third and final round, Mitchell looked perfectly
fresh, while the Philadelphian was decidedly shaky
on his pins and manifestly a beaten man. Mike
made a sort of last despairing effort, however,
dashing in at once, but the right-handed blow he
opened out with only circled through space, and,
as he went forward with the force of it, Mitchell
propped him on the body with the left, and on the
nut with dexter bunch of bones, fairly straighten-
ing him up. Cleary tried all he knew to stem the tide
of battle, but his blows now lacked steam woefully,
while he seemed Utterly unable to save himself
from the deliveries of his antagonist, who, seeing
he had his man nearly done up, kept up a. con-
tinual bombardment at body and head, driving
Mike into the latter’s own corner, and then across
the stage, until they were close to the English
champion’s corner, when Mitchell banged him
one, two, with left and right on mouth and nose,
the last hit being hard enough to knock Mike
down. When this climax was reached the excite-
ment in the building was very great, and hearty
cheers were given for Mitchell, whose determined
front and workmanlike style of fighting were
greatly admired, and had the effect of drawing the
crowd towards him. Cleary was quickly upon his
feet, and not averse to continuing the hopeless
struggle, but the police interferred and prevented
it going any further. Mitchell stands 5 ft. 9 in. in
his shoes, weighs 10 st. 10 lb., and good judges in
England say he is a Tom Sayers for giving punish-
ment, and in science the equal of Jem Mace, who
never before had an equal. As stated elsewhere,
he has now been matched to fight Herbert Slade,
Mace’s half-breed, for £500. If Slade has been
showing his true form in America, the affair must
be a foregone conclusion in favour of the English-
man.
This is how the champion Sullivan talked
when interviewed with respect to his intentions
concerning the English champion, Charles Mitchell:
“If Madden has an honest intention and desire to
test his English champion with me, I will give him
the opportunity, and I now publicly make this
offer to him: I will stake $5000 against an equal
amount to be staked by Madden, making the sum
$10,000; and I will agree to meet Mitchell with
gloves in three weeks from this time, and make
him stop sparring in four rounds or less: the match
to be governed by the Marquis of Queensbery old
rules, and to be witnessed by ten or twenty gentle-
men selected in equal numbers by each party to
the agreement. I don’t know of any easier way
than this for Madden and Mitchell to earn $5000 if
the English boxer is as clever as it is claimed he is.
If they won’t agree to this, I ask them not to use
my name to advertise their business, and in doing
so I don’t think I am asking too much. I don’t anti-
cipate that Mitchell has come to this country with
any idea of challenging me to fight, because I am
too heavy a man for him to encounter. Therefore,
I think my proposition for a glove contest in which
I take a handicap by limiting myself as to time a
fair one.” Sullivan’s illness has, of course, knocked
all matches on the head for the present. Mean-
while, Mace has matched his Maori protege, Slade,
to fight Mitchell. Tbe Englishman goes into
training in America; Mace and his friend take
a business trip to England. The fight is to
be with bare knuckles, in September, and is to
be for £500 a side. Mitchell won the toss, and has
decided that the battle is to take place within 200
miles of Kansas city—Harry Hill to be final stake-
holder and referee. We do not remember any pre-
vious match between pugilists—Foley and Miller
not excepted—in which the disparity in the size of
the men was so marked as in this; but it is by no
means certain that when they face each other in
the ring the odds in betting will not be on the man
who is the smaller in stature and bulk, but’the
larger in fistic knowledge and generalship. By the
way, before Sullivan’s illness he and Mitchell wore
matched to spar at Madison Square Gardens, N.Y.,
on the evening of May 14, with soft gloves. The
terms of the agreement were that Sullivan should
receive 60 and Mitchell 40 per cent, of the net
receipts, but no mention was made of the number
or duration of the rounds to be contested. That,
it was presumed, would depend altogether on cir-
cumstances that might arise after operations with
the mittens wore commenced. Had the event
come off, there would have been a huge attend-
ance.
The decision given by the referee in the
Miller-Foley glove-contest has caused a perfect
howl of Indignation in every corner of Australia.
The referee, in our opinion, was undoubtedly
bound to award not only the stakes, but the ver-
dict, to Miller, whether the latter pleased to accept
it or not. This is how the matter stands. Two
men agreed to fight with gloves, leaving Mr. For-
rester to act as judge between them. Mr. Forrester,
in accepting the refereeship, undertook to give a
fair decision without fear or favour, and to see
that the contest—which, up to the time the condi-
tions were grossly infringed by Foley's second, was
a fair and manly one—was conducted under certain
regulations known as the Marquis of Queensberry’s
rules. One of those rules was to the effect that, in
the event of a contestant falling, he had to rise,
una*»Uslod, within ten seconds, and continue the
round. Foley was knocked down, and more than
once John Thompson helped him to get up. The
referee saw this—if he didn’t, ho was blind, for five
hundred other people saw it. It might reasonably
have been expected that Foley would at once have
been disqualified and the stakes given to Miller,
just as they should have been had Foley deliber-
ately hit Miller below the belt, or designedly kicked
him, or hit him when ho was down. For Foley,
mark you, was accountable and liable for and
bound by the action of his second in picking him
up. In the first place, then, Mr. Forrester coun-
tenanced a flagrant violation of the rules. Then,
Christie—who seconded Miller, and behaved him-
self like a gentleman all through—made a terrible
error in not emphatically protesting against
Thompson’s picking up of Foley. Ho should have
loudly declined, after Thompson’s transgressions
of the regulations, to have all >wed Miller to re-
enter the ring except under protest. However we
might pardon Mr. Forrester for overlooking
Thompson’s offence in the first place, we cannot
forgive him for his subsequent repeated unreason-
able condonations of a breach of what was one of
the most essential conditions of the match. So far
concerning the contest itself, hut let us ask by
what earthly warrant did Mr. Forrester next
morning proclaim the match a drawn one ? Miller
got the stakes, and, if we are correctly informed,
a good deal besides. Why should he get the money
if he did not win the battle ? As Miller was given
the stakes— though not by Mr. Forrester,—are
we to assume that some of the Foley party,
who are downy birds enough, well skilled in
all the tricks and artifices of so-called sport,
were of opinion that Miller was in a position,
if he chose, to extort a verdict in his own
favour from the referee ? To endorse such a sup-
position would luubt be to grossly wrong Mr.
Forrester. The Foley party weren’t the men to
give anvthing for nothing, but as their reputation
stands far too high in the community to permit of
its being for a moment supposed that they paid
Miller the stakes, &c., in order that they might
avoid meeting obligations contingent on Foley’s
being officially proclaimed a beaten man, we must
assume that they gave Miller the few paltry hun-
dreds just to show how much they admired him,
and what a fine fellow they thought he was. Miller
is, however, not free from blame in the mat-
ter. He has been led into a trap by
men who took advantage of his good nature.
Perhaps bethought half a loaf was better than
none, and that if he didn’t take what was offered
he might possibly receive nothing at all. But while
that consideration can under all the circumstances
hardly have failed to present itself to him, Miller
was actuated by what may be termed charitable
motives. He knew ho had beaten his opponent.
He knew, too, that that opponent lived (like every
other man who follows a profession) to some
extent on his reputation, and wnen the question
was put straight to him, the great big soft-nearted
lump of muscle hesitated to inflict any further
moral injury upon the man he had smashed
physically. Miller should have relied on his
undoubted and unassailable right to the stakes,
and have declined to accept them unless they were
accompanied by the referee’s verdict in his favour.
The heart of the public of this country is sound,
and the sportsmen of Australia would have seen
Miller through. The true history of this celebrated
glove contest will perhaps never be written, and
the degraded ruffians who, manipulated by a little
coterie of low-bred wealthy blackguards, inter-
rupted the contest and swindled Miller and his
backers, may never get their deserts. When next
Miller enters for a glove-fight ho will be 'cuter.
Exponent la docet. And when next Mr. Forrester
acts as referee in a glove-contest, he will perhaps
keep his eyes open, and not bo the unwitting
means of bringing about a fiasco which must
damn our reputation in every land whore men
love British fair play.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Because Beddome, P.M., Adelaide, recently
acquitted a man charged with welshing, the Soutn
Australian police authorities sulkily declare they
will go for no more wolshers—The match
between Spring and M’Teruou for £100 Is off
It only took an hour and a half for the news of the
last Epsom “Darby” win to reach Melbourne.
Quite too fast for any clerk to divulge it—At
Candelo Sports, Mr. R. L. Tooth’s Silver Cun was
won by Towney, who did 300 yards in 31)4 sec.
A. M'Grory won the principal handicap, J. Healey
the running high jump with 5 ft. V/\ in., and
Clinch the hurdles Dick Saunders, a well-known
carrier between Forbes and Orange, has drawn
the £1000 prize in Adams’ consultation Just
before the Cup: world-renowned sporting tipster
from a sister colony to well-known sporting owner:
“ Now, look here, old man, give it away at once,
and I’m us dumb as a fried frog—do you think your
horse can win it?” Horse-owner (rather surly):
“ Well, I did, until I heard you had tipped him as
the winner.” Exit tipster ...On the 36th May, on
the South Melbourne Cricket Ground the Mel-
bourne Football Club defeated the South Mel-
bourne Club by three goals and ten behinds to two
goals and twelve bohlnds—At the Roma (Q.)
races, a jockey named Connors was disqualified for
pulling a horse called Darkie in the T.C. Handicap.
....Bombala Sports, Queen’s Birthday.—Maiden
Plato: C. Kellond. Champion Race (300 yards): T.
Stevens. Youths’ Race: W. Bicleiter. Grand
Commercial Handicap: J. Dunn. Half-hour Go-
as-you-please: A M‘Donald. Hurdle Race: T.
Bengali Joe Thompson, who was fined .£30 by
Adelaide Tattersall’s, tor using forcible language
in the subscription-room, is now being sued tor
heavy damages by Mr. Gordon, secretary of the
A.R.C., whom he is alleged to have publicly ac-
cused of dishonesty Charters Towers beat
Townsville at cricket, much to the surprise of
the Cleveland Bay men, who have been almost
uniformly successful for several years past....
Elk fell and broke his neck in a hurdle race at
Bourke on Friday last. Mis rider did not suffer
from the fall.... The horse Slow Tom has been dis-
qualified for twelve months by the Bourke Jockey
Club Miller got a good reception at each railway
station en route to Melbourne On the morn of
the famous fight, no less than 76 of the “talent”
told us in the strictest confidence that Miller would
be crumpled up in ten rounds, and one gentleman,
who keeps Punch’s wall up for a living, went so
tar as to darkly hint the Professor’s injuries would
perhaps prove fatal. On the following morning
the same enthusiasts were to be found on the dif-
ferent sporting Rialtos, excitedly button-holing all
they met as they yelled “What did I tell yer?
Didn’t I say Foley wuz never in it—hey The
Hawkesbury Race Club have issued a programme
of eleven races, to be run on the 33rd and 35th
of August next. Total added money, £1460
A Wilcannia man, who won £950 in a sweep of
Miller’s on the Melbourne Cup, soon after left for
Adelaide. He drew all his money from the bank,
and is said to be now in even worse plight than he
was before... .The Cowra Free Press, of 1st inst.,
gives a sprightly account of a dancing match be-
tween two local steppers for £10 aside, and winds
up with: “ The takings at the door, £3 3s. 6d., have
been most generously handed over to the local
hospital by the two contestants.” The joke is
there was no wager—it was a “fake” got up to
endeavour to replenish the exhausted coffers of
the institution above referred to. The disgusted
audience, evidently appreciating they had been
“got at, declared that one or the contestants
couldn’t dance enough to keep hiniselt warm—
Poor little Moore, who was one of our most careful
of jockeys, was killed on Queen’s Birthday by be-
ing accidentally shot against a dangerous post on
the Newcastle racecourse. The authorities re-
moved the post—after the undertaker had removed
the jockey. The majority of all our country
courses badly want a thorough overhauling —
At Charters Towers, E. Hlllyard, starting from
scratch, won the Queen’s Birthday Handicap (180
and 300 yards), boating pretty easily Pollock ami
Winmett, to whom he conceded good shu ts—
The annual boat race between Trinity and Ormond
Colleges, Melbourne, was rowed on 36th May, am,
resulted in an easy win for Trinity. The course
was from the Botanical Bridge to Edwards’ boal-
shed In a football match, played on the 30tl
May, between the Windsor Grammar School ami
Royston College, on live latter club's ground, the
HOystonians got all the best of it—The Victoria
Coursing Club’s meeting was concluded on Friday
last with the following results: —For the Great
Southern Cup, Mr. W. Cooper’s Kingfisher, by
Wheft>— Royal Anne, and Mr. E. Fanning’s Farde-
rougha, by Fadladoon—Fatinlska, divided the
stake. Mr. Fanning taking the Cup. The Hon. W.
M’Culloch’s Mailboy appropriated the Oval Stakes,
and the Rupert Stakes tell to Mr. E. Fanning's
Cushla.
* * *
Dr. Carver, having so often demon-
strated his superiority as a trait-shot over Captain
Bogardus, now says he is prepared to meet anyone,
giving his opponent odds of three yards, in a shoot
at 100 clay pigeons Driscoll and liolske, the
phenomenal American walkers, are matched for a
live-mile fair heel and toe spin — A bill making it
a penal offence to shoot pigeons or other birds
from traps has passed a second reading in the
Pennsylvania Legislature, and will doubtless be-
come law In a shoot at 100 clay pigeons at Daj -
ton, O., 30 yards’ rise, Carver and Bogardus eaen
broke 94 pigeons. They seem to have "got onto"
these substitutes for bluerocks quite effectually,
giving colour to the assertions that have been made
by other exports that any good shot can quickly
acquire the ability to smash these marks. They
met again 30 at Columbus, O., when Carver fell off
unaccountably in his shooting, and Bogardus won
by a score of 03 to 70 Hooent London exchanges
announce the death of Edward Fordhara Flowei,
who waged a long fight, in which he came out
winner, against cruel harnessing—specially against
the bearing rein, now hardly ever worn by horses,
but which, before Flower began his crusade, was
the most torturing ill which horseflesh was heir to.
Fiowor was perhaps the very best whip of his day
and generation—Hanian and Plaisted have en-
tered for the professional regatta to bo held at
Pullman, 111., In June A slashing and desperate
dog flght was decided In Brooklyn on April 13, be-
tween Tanner of South Boston, and Bony of New
York. Tho dogs fought at 34>$ lb, a tair scratch
in turn flght for $300 a side. A large crowd of
sporting men from Boston, Hartford and Provi-
dence, R. 1., came on to witness the contest. Bet -
ting was even at the start, but Bony soon prove 1
inferior to tho Boston canine, and Tanner was
made tho favourite. The flght lasted 3h. and 56m.
when Tanner killed Bony— Burglars mounted on
bicycles silently stole away with a lot of “swag”
from Essex, Mass., on the night of April 16. This
Is one of the uses to which the inventor of tl.
bicycle hardly contemplated Its being put. and is ai.
other proof that tho silent steed is useful for busi-
ness as well us pleasure —Jack Reilly and Tom
Nolan engaged in a prize light at Tombstone,
Arizona territory, on April 8th. Nolan was de-
clared the winner on a foul after 13 desperai o
slogging rounds had been fought —Duncan C.
Boss, wlio styles himself the champion athlete c f
tho world, is anxious to wrestle Wm. Muldoon.
Here’s another chance for Miller—At Hickory
Bush, N.Y., on April 10. Jacob Camp and a man
named Donavan were having a bout with the
gloves; Donavan was worsting him, when he seizes
a stone and knocked Donavan down, and then
crushed his skull John Connors and James
Hogan engaged In a prize flght on April 15 near
Yonkers, N.Y., and Connors had to allow tie
sponge to bo elevated in token of defeat, after Vi'
rounds had been contested. The men stripped t-i
their undershirts, and shook hands at 2.46 o'elocl.,
They rushed to close quarters at onoe, and Hogai.
planted a tremendous righthander over Conneis.’
right eye. It made his nose blood and raised a bl.r
lump. This was first blood for Hogan. In tl c
second round Hogan knocked Connors down. 1 i
the following rounds Hogan pounded right and
left, planting most of his blows on Connors’ bod;.
Conners saved himself by his science and by
dodging. They clinched many times, and Hogan
nearly always had tho best of ft. It was soon very
evident that ho was more than a match 1< r
Conners, and it was simply a question of enduram o
on the latter’s part. Connors pounded Hogim
severely about tho head, but Hogan did not seoi.i
to mind it. After fighting 77 rounds in Ih 50min ,
Connors was too exhausted to come to tho senate) ,
and Hogan was declared tho victor. Hogan, thouy.ii
only 19 years of age, weighs 183 lb. and is veiy
muscular. Ho is about 5 ft. in. in height, aim
has fought over since ho could walk. He him
knocked so many men out that a wide berth him
been given him. Second tp him in pugilistic rank
was Connors, 23 years of ago, weighing 165 lb, an i
5 ft. 8 In. tall. lie is a bettor sparror than Hogan,
but cannot slog so well. He has won many
rough tights... .lianlan. it is cabled, has rowtd
Kennedy and beaten him by fifteen lengths —
Robert Watson Boyd, the ox-champion oarsman < i
England, is matched to row an unknown over the
Tyne championship course for £300—Dr. F. V .
Carver and A. H. Bogardus’ exhibition shoot lit
100 clay pigeons at Quincy, 111., on March 33. re-
sulted in Carver breaking 100 to Bogardus’ 94. They
also shot at 100 clay pigeons each at Providence,
R.I., on April 11, and the captain won, breaking 94,
and beating Carver by three. At Boston, Mass, n.
a similar match, Bogardus again defeated Carvci,
breaking 94 to Carver’s 93—E. P. Weston, the
pioneer of long-distance pedestrianism, is living m
England, and now and again, in order to keep him-
self before tho public, lectures on hygenie training
and temperance An English paper states that im,
a coursing meeting at Four Oaks Park, an eight
dog stake was run through in fifteen minutes...
George Hosmer has issued a challenge to Courtney,
Riley, and Leo, to row a sweepstake with him loi
3000 dol., or singly for 1000 dol. aside, three ralko
with turn, in July.
WHAT IT HAS COME TO !
Lady : This is your card, I believe ?
Young Person: Yes.
L.: Oh, you come about the housemaid’s place?
Y. P.: Me, mum? Oh, dear, uo, mum. I understood as you was the person as wanted
the Lady ’Elp.


p u
R N I T U R E SHOW BOOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Springs treete, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T IBHAIIY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
_Li TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O ’Connell-s treet.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and inex
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BILLIARD TABLES, full size, with appurten-
ances ; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on view,
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
BEDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woodsj
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wadrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY.
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
HEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s ■
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; Open Book-
cases, from 35s ; Chests Drawers, from 40s ; Wash-
stands, from 10s6d ; Tables, from 7s 8d : Wardrobes
from 80s ; Dining Tables, from 20s ; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s •
Kitchen Dressers .from 30s ; Kitchen Tables from
10s : Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney. , e «
' 85s.
BRADLEY,
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold with Side
Shelves. 86s. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
IjlURNITURE. —The Largest Stock in the
‘ Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
Drawing-room cabinets—Early English,
Anglo-Japanese, and Chippendale designs.
Just opened. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
ININ G-R O O M FURNITURE.—Magnificent
Suites in Walnut Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons. &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING and DINING
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass ;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
WASH8TANDS, with marble, 23s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very complete
Assortment, just opened; many quite new
designs.
O" CCASIONAL CHAIRS in VERY GREAT
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
FPICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, Ac. Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
"RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
_ TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S'
ICE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
TEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
HQ GUINEA' PIAN07 wARRANTEI) 80und
and durable, in solid walnut case ; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
0/~VGUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
OU pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case ; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
TIPP’S CELEB R A TED PI AN OS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT, GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
|S“ WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES,
BitADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.
SOCIAL.
“Eva,” who is a spirited girl, writes in this
style:—On Sunday afternoon, Cousin Amy and self
were taken to Manly by a very old friend of Amy’s,
a gentleman from Melbourne—not old, you know,
but with lovely iron-grey hair, and broad
shoulders, and beautiful honest brown eyes, and
a widower with lots of money. He’s quite capti-
vated with dear Amy’s innocent face, and artless
ways; though I should fancy a girl of my style
would but I am wandering from my subject.
Well, then, to return, I must tell you we wore all
three victims of such a gentlemanly, clever joke,
such a refined effort of humour that I’m afraid the
Manly authors will be too modest to make it
sufficiently known. I can picture them surrounded
by their limited circle of congenial spirits, re-
counting and embellishing the little episode;
for a wider publicity, and In the hope it may meet
their weak eyes or long cars, I want you to put a
*• par. ” (is that right ?) between your pretty pink
covers. As wo strolled along the sands, three
“young gentlemen” (pardon, gentles all!) passed
by, favouring us with their most killing glances—
but which gentle Amy characterised as a vulgar.
Impudent stare. I thought so, too. When they
had got to a safe distance, they stopped, and one of
the precious trio wrote on the sand just in our path
the following elegant legend;—“ Slip the old man.”
Now, wasn’t this very clever, very gentlemanly,
very spirited and kind ? I am sorry that the clever
authors did not stop to see how we enjoyed their
genial joke. If they had not made off so fust, wo
might have “slipped the old man,” with a ven-
geance. They might have heard the gentle Amy’s
opinion of them; and have read my answer “ not
for three such cads,” with much wholesome in-
struction. It is true they were dressed in the out-
ward semblance of respectability. One wore a
white hat and yellow gloves— gloves, save the mark 1
When Amy guessed they were barber's or baker’s
assistants, our Melbourne friend said she was doing
a great injustice to two respectable trades—that
such persons belonged to no decent calling, but
they had probably dressed themselves up out of
some woman’s savings (mother’s or sister’s), and
then wont about to insult other women in their
masher’s plumage. I think I could prefer the
larrikin in his native state to these creatures in the
garb of gentlemen who insulted us by their con-
ceit and vulgar familiarities at Manly. Why the
very name of the place should scare them away;
there is nothing in that name in common with their
low nature. However, Amy and I intend to visit
Manly again next Sunday, and if the mashers will
present themselves they can bo mashed to their
best content; for we will “ slip the old man"—and
ho will have on thick boots.
• • •
It doesn’t seem easy to make a start, for
the early balls of the Winter are always moderately
attended. There was no crush at the North Shore
Rowing Club Rail, but, for a nice social evening,
there was a pleasant party on Friday in the Town
Hall, which was adorned with flags, etc., for the
occasion. Only evening costume was worn, so
there was not much of a variety in dresses to
remark upon, and most of them were merely in
quiet taste. A Darling Point lady wore a line cos-
tume of black satin trimmed with edolwels lace.
A fair bevy of ladies came over from the Shore, a
special steamer having been laid on to return at
3 o’clock, which proved very convenient. Among
them were Miss Sandon, in a toilet of beautiful
shade of salmon pink, docked with lace; Miss Fitz-
patrick, in white llama and skirt striped with satin
a pretty embroidered silk bodice, orange bows and
flowers to match; and Miss Thompson, of vocal
fame, in pink raoirtS and cream satin, with all those
little additions of lace and loveliness which render
the attire of ladies so easy to admire and so
hard to understand. In black gros-de-lyon
was a young lady from the borders of Pad-
dington; and in ivory silk and figured silk
bodice was a picturesque brunette, with flowers
on the neck and bedded in her hair. A few
matronly ladies graced the ball, though the majo-
rity of revellers were young, and, to judge from a
hasty glance, of the single persuasion. Miss Hol-
lander, in pink llama, was dangerously warlike,
because she was able to bare arms, and dressed
according to the canons of taste. Miss Holt was
garmented in pale blue satin and white lace, with
tartan trimmings; and Miss Grace Butler in a
Srbtty dress of white plush and gossamer muslin.
[iss Smith, a first-class blonde from the Shore,
wore a nice figured cream satin, decked with the
queen flowers in red and white, while her cheeks
looked like the latest edition of the “ wars of the
roses.” Miss Schomburg, in pink llama, danced
so well as to cause llamantations that she is but a
stranger here, and Adelaide her home. An orchestra
of four provided just the right kind of music,
quite quick enough; and the Compagnonl Catering
Company provided all the materials for knife and
fork music in excellent fashion. One of the live-
liest dancers was a gentleman, who seemed
about a million years old, and was greatly envied
by some of the aquatic young men who were
anxious to make as good a splash among the
maidens, but lacked the archaic gentleman’s ex-
perience. Mr. Little’s efforts certainly made the
ball as successful us one man’s efforts could; it
wasn’t his fault that more gentlemen came than
ladies, and that some of the rowing men had to
scull into the corridor in a paddle-your-own-canoe
sort of stylo, and pretend they didn’t like dancing.
♦ * *
It’s just the same old tale
Of twisted tresses,
Of beauty dark and pale,
And sheeny dresses:
Vainshow. Ahl yes, butthink, sweet girls,
What waists unsqueezen,
If ’twero not for this time of twirls,
The dancing season.
It’s just the same old tale
Of tender glances,
And heaven on a little scale
Between the dances;
All youthful folly. Ah I but still,
Whate’er the reason,
We did love, do, and ever will,
The dancing season.
It’s just the same old tale,
So very human,
That never will go stale
While lovely woman
Smiles below. Ah! it would bo
No less than treason
To say we do not long to see
The dancing season.
• • •
Just a few ladies more would have made
the Eastern Suburbs Amateur Athletic Club Ball
as good as anyone could wish. There is no deny-
ing that their scarcity was a slight drawback, be-
cause the presence of ladies is rather an advantage
in a ballroom sometimes. It was, however, the
only deficiency, and what was lacking in numbers
was compensated for by the skilful dancing of the
ladies who were present. Everything else was
faultless, and, with a polished floor and even
music, twenty-seven dances proved a mere trifle,
and the ten waltzes were just high art. Refresh-
ments were well provided by the City Catering
Company, and melody by Mr. E. Needs. During
the evening, a few bottles of “the boy ” were un-
corked, and three toasts wore honoured, namely,
“The Patrons,” “The Press,” and “ The Prizo-
givere.” Messrs. Trickett and Butcher, M.’sP., re-
ponded, and the former gently hinted that useful
a nd healthy as open-air athletics might be, no
athlete would be any the worse for possessing a
little of the cheerful hienscance which was to be
acquired amid the refining Influences of the gentler
sex, and especially on such gay and pleasurable
occasions as that which brought them there that
n Urht. The two Eastern Suburbs legislators led
ln * he opening quadrille, having tor partners
Mrs. Butcher and Miss Baylls. A few fancy dresses
were worn, but not many. Mr. Brown was ro-
markably blue as a Cavalier, and even the splendor
ot his garb, which was really rich, did not seem to
make him as happy as he might have been. Miss
E. Kenyon was a picturesque milkmaid, and Miss
C. Kenyon represented Hebe. Miss Minnie Cooper
was nicely dressed, as Aurora, in a long-trained
white dress, set oft with rich gold fringe, and a
wreath of golden loaves. “Pinafore” was also a
pretty fancy garb, and there were yachtsmen, offi-
cers, officers, gipsies, and so on, Two married
ladies undoubtedly excelled in regard to handsome
evening cestume. The lady from Darlinghurst
wore a turquoise blue silk, with front of electric
blue brocade, trimmed with silk ruchlngs, white
lace flounces, and silver, gold thistles and burnt
red roses; gloves were pale blue. The lady from
Randwiok was in a brilliant attire of deep cream
broohl, elaborately draped with lace ; small
Vandykes of bright emerald velvet round the
short sleeves, and edging the square-cut neck,
which was alsofiPed in with soft lace; long emerald
velvet tabs on the skirt; and lavish flowers to add
a finish to all. Athletic families were well repre-
sented, among others being the sister of a Botany
bicyclist, the sister of a runner who has travelled
after lots of trophies—and taken them—and the
daughter of a largo hardware merchant in the mid-
city, clad in deep cream with warm gold satin
trimmings. A very rich dress was of pink satin
top and maroon velvet, from Redfern; and pinks
and light blues wore in plenty. There were many
pretty girls, with nothing specially remarkable
about them. For a pretty girl is not a phenomenon
in Sydney. Wo venture to hope this remark will
be considered complimentary to the colony. At
any rate, it is intended to include all the ladies not
otherwise specially mentioned. Mr. Shipway has
every reason to be satisfied with the result of his
efforts in engineering the Club’s first ball, and we,
therefore, cheerfully offer him this testimonial-
consisting of kudos,
9 • m
The Mercantile Rowing Club’s annual ball
takes place this year on 21st June, at the Exhibition
building. The City Company cater, the City Band
play, and Sale and Dare have contracted to supply
most artistic decorations. The programme is to bo
elaborate, and a special train will start from town
at 3.30 a.m. for Parramatta and intermediate sta-
tions. As the committee on this occasion reserve
the right of returning the money of any guest
whoso attire is umesthetic, young men who dress
in short-sleeved jerseys full of holes, and label
themselves “ a footballer” will be “ out of it.” The
principal modistes are already busy with orders
for costumes. The last annual ball given by the
club was a splendid success, except in one respect.
It decimated the effectives of the club. Eighteen
weddings during the past twelve months are dis-
tinctly traceable to the havoc done among the
softest scullers during the last ball by the fair;
and so seriously has the matter turned out, that
several of the most bigoted oarsmen in the club
endeavoured to prevent any more balls being held.
* * *
The services of the district registrar of a
Murrumbidgee town were called into requisition
on the 24th May, to unite in wedlock a happy
couple. The bride was a widow over whose head
the frosts of some 63 hard winters had passed, and
the bridegroom was a gay young spark of about
39. The officer did his duty, and pronounced the
happy couple man and wife, when the best man,
who, by the way, had no boots on, produced the
ring and proceeded to place it on the bride’s
linger. The proportion of the finger to the ring,
however, was as three is to two, and, consequently,
it wouldn’t “go;” to remedy which the best man
put it (the ring) carefully in his mouth, and, after
wetting it, had another try. Still no go. The
bridegroom here came to the rescue, and, deter-
mined that that ring should go on; he put the
bride’s linger in his mellow mouth, and after it had
been thoroughly moistened, it was withdrawn,
and the ring made to glide on most gracefully.
The marriage was the result of a compound of
“love at first sight.” and a resolution on the part
of the bridegroom to “ strike the iron while it was
hot.” The parties met for the first time on 33rd
May, and were married next day. The circum-
stance created quite a sensation in the Southern
town. No cards, no cake, and no kissing the bride.
• •
Between fifty and sixty attended the Dun-
gog ball, but as ladies were in a majority the most
attractive of the fair sex had a good deal the best
of it. This caused much ill-feeling, and, in the
words of our corregpondent, “ brought the Man-
ning River girls, who have very little to boast of
except weight, out in their true colours.” Several
ladies from the Patorsou attended, and showed
that after all the fatigue of driving forty miles
they could make themselves amiable and dance
till daylight. The belle was, in most people’s
opinions, a young lady whose name begins with
the fourth letter of the alphabet, though a Mait-
land lady in pink and ruby, and a fair one from
Allandale in blue, were very charming.
• • •
Our staid German brother only deigns to
make a fool of himself in print when it is needful
to insert a death, marriage, or birth notice. Here
is one of the latter which appeared in a recent
number of the Son Austbalische Zeitunq (Ade-
laide). We translate literally, and refrain from
rhyme :—
“ In our house were we
Till yesterday our Two;
‘ Papa, Mama, I, too, am here!’
Sounds to-day the cry—
It is a boy, trim and fine.
With eyes like the stars.-
* Papa, Mama, we are Three I’
Which we so gladly hear.
Healthy are mother, child, and husband—
This intimate to our dear friends.
THEDOR VOSZ and WIFE.”
A new dance has been invented by one Leblanc, I
called “ The National.” It is described in a general
way as a hodge-podge of bits from the Lancers,
Caledonians, and ordinary quadrille, with frequent
scraps of waltzing interspersed. If the description
is nearly accurate, we are not likely to hear much
more of the new Invention. Those hybrid re-
hashes of old figures can’t satisfy any rational
dancer. There’s no merit in them. Like the
Alberts and Fitzroys, they’re tacitly scouted; not
because there is anything bad in them, but because
there is nothing really good in them. Variations
ip the ordinary quadrilles and Lancers are con-
stantly being attempted, but scarcely ever with
any other result than confusion. Against petty
alterations, and piecing together of dances, we
emphatically protest. It is difficult enough to
remember all the ordinary legitimate dances there
are; and they are quite good enough, if well
danced. How many ballrooms could you enter,
and pick partners to do a “ sixteens” Lancers with-
out confusion ? We doubt, one. Yet it is not a
difficult thing to dance a Lancers with eight
couples; neither is it with six couples, nor with
three; although many people fancy these sets im-
practicable. New combinations, by plagiarising
from old figures and piecing together, are not
wanted; they only confuse. Even good new
dances are hard to Introduce. There’s the polo,
now, which is really new, and really pretty. It
came in several years ago, but has never become
general, and never seems likely to. Even the
French cotillon, which was only introduced last
year, has forged ahead of the polo in favour. It
Is a four-couple square dance, with figures very
similar to the quadrille, but all in waltzing step.
A perfectly accurate discernment of time is essen-
tial, and those who don’t possess this may give it
up, for a waltz-step wrong throws all out, and
cannot be picked up like a walking step. How-
ever, it’s a very pretty dance, and fast gaining
popularity.
* * *
Wedding anniversaries: First, paper wed-
ding; second, straw wedding; third, candy wed-
ding; fourth, leather wedding: fifth, wooden
wedding; tenth, tin wedding; twelfth, linen wed-
ding; fifteenth, crystal wedding; twentieth, floral
wedding; twenty-fifth, silver wedding; thirtieth,
pearl wedding; thirty-fifth, china wedding;
fortieth, coral wedding; fiftieth, golden wedding;
seventy-fifth, diamond wedding.
• • •
A ** dood” is a hanger-on at the skirts
of manhood. Just as the thoroughbred has
something in common with the poddy foal,
and the Newfoundland is of the same genus
as the wall-eyed terrier pup when he is
moulting, so we have to admit the dood is
human. He is always young: quite callow. A
masher may be any age, and he may even bo manly
in a way; but the dood, never! He is very nearly
neuter gender. Though seen in many places, his
chief resorts are the theatre precincts and the
caftSs. He calls all actresses by their Christian
names, and affects to be very familiar with lots of
them. But he isn’t. Possibly he may know a
chorus girl; probably not. If he does, it cannot
matter. His acquaintanceship might be an annoy-
ance; but he is attenuated, effeminate, a washed-
out specimen of humanity, born weary —and we
can scarcely believe any woman to be in danger
from him. Nothing hurries a dood; it would be
more difficult to disconcert him than a lorry-horse,
and he has less brains. His expression of face is
wooden, with wax-ends over the mouth, and he
has a stony eye, to do mashing. A dood is gene-
rally, not always, a rich man’s son, with an eye-
glass, and a mouth full of cigar; and it’s his life’s
burden to keep that cigar alight. He has all the
attributes which make manhood a laughing-stock,
and a byword of contempt. He is not gifted with
conversational powers, and seldom writes any-
thing for fear his spelling would betray him; but
for victory over the female heart, he trusts to his
fishy stare, his air of ennui and debility, and his
languid lily fingers. Some girls suffer the inflic-
tions of these blear-eyed, faded apologies for men
—but only those who are hard up. But, as we have
said, the dood is harmless.
* * *
Messrs. M‘Murtrie, Kellerman, and Co.,
of York-street, having completed a fine now
factory at lledfern, warmed it by inviting some 300
of their employes and friends to a soiree therein
on Friday evening last. The spacious room used
was in capital order, fairly decorated, etc., with a
smooth floor, made as good a dancing hall as
could be desired. Although the flowing bowl was
kept freely circulating, there was no sign of the
least dyspepsia, but everyone was determined to
be merry, either with or without the cheering cup.
The cup-boards of the caterer had been ransacked
for good things, and the circling cup-pies remem-
bered that life is but a span, and spanned as hard as
they could while it lasted. Several toasts, includ-
ing, of course, the “Firm,” were honoured, and
dancing did not end till five in the morning.
Among the many fair partners, a tall, dark-eyed
young lady from Arthur-street, and the daughter
of a boating man of Miller’s Point neighbourhood
were conspicuous.' But two handsome young
ladies in blue (one of whom is “soon to be led ”—
you know) were decidedly the queen B.’s of the
merry hive.
Italians in Sydney took the opportunity of
their celebration of the anniversary of Garibaldi’s
death to express indignation at the disregard
of the old hero’s last wish that his body should be
cremated.
• • •
“Milrea,” a well-known station on the
Barwon, was the scene of a pleasant ball on the 3-ith
May, when dancing was executed in a capital room
decorated by two fair sisters from Richmond, one
of whom, fair and petite, in India muslin and
geraniums, was acknowledged belle; while both
acted for the night as joint hostesses. A Walgett
maiden, in mourning garb and silver, was notice-
able, and the agreeable manager was sedulous in
his civil attentions.
• • •
The Bachelors of Broughton Creek gave
the ladies a treat on the 30th ultimo—a private ball
—when some 10 attended. Among the maids of
merit were: one from Berrollen in black velvet
and satin; two pretty sisters in maize and silver
flowers; a Bundawalla belle in pale blue. Many
deemed the daughter of a local storekeeper the
belle, in blue silk and black velvet. With rests and
musical interludes, the night was spun out till
5 o’clock approached.
Social continued on next page.


jyj-ERCANTILE
ROWING CLUB BALL.
The Eighth Annual Ball,
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
THURSDAY, 21st JUNE,
Under the patronage of the Worshipful the Mayor,
John Harris. Esq., and the Merchants of Sydney.
Dross—Plain and Fancy.
Refreshments by City Catering Company.
Decorations by Messrs. Sale and Dare.
Band—The City Band.
Special Trains for Parramatta and intermediate
stations, 3 a.m.
Stewards:
Hon. J. B. Watt Carl Sahl, Esq.
Hon. W. M. Alderson Sir P. A. Jennings
T. R. A lit, Esq. Cant. J. G. Barron
R. Butcher. Esq., M.L.A. A. Bennett, Esq.
Thos. Dalton, Esq., M.L.A. H. Fowler, Esq.
John Gardyne, Esq. J. B. Holdsworth, Esq.
W. Laidley, Esq.
John Pope, Esq.
C. J. Roberts, Esq.
John See, Esq.
Committee :
W. F. Hixson
F. Ives
R. A. Keddie
N. Lockyer
H. Mears
E. Needs
J. Smart
F. Thorpe
H. B. Wilkinson
C. Wilkinson.
•I (Hill Ut>« IjSIJ
John Hardle, Esq.
C. K. Moore, Esq.
Clias. Pearce, Bsq.
R. Sands, Esq.
W. R. Benson
J. Blackman
E. J. Barron
F. C. Boulton
R. E. Brindley
D. Dennis
P. J. Dowling
D. Fletcher
W. J. Fitzgerald
A. Green
Double Tickets
Gentleman’s ...
Lady’s
Tickets:
£1 10 0
10 0
0 12 6
Tickets may be obtained from the Stewards,
Members of Committee, aud the following ware-
houses :—Messrs. Peapes and Shaw, J. Cantor, J.
M. Elleroarap, Elvy and Co., Paling and Co., Las-
setter and Co., Farmer and Co., J. B. Holdsworth,
Searl and Sons, R. Sands, A. Huenerbein, and
Thompson and Giles.
D. MURRAY, ) Joint
W. A. BLACKSTONE, ( Hon. Secs.
F. J. BULL, Hon. Treasurer.
Coolalta Wine Cellars,
Mort’s Passage.
A MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS.
METROPOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
Metropolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £3500
Melbourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10s. each £5000
SYDNEY.
Metropolitan Stakes.
MELBOURNE.
Cup.
1st Horse ... £3000
2nd „ ... 1000
3rd „ ... 500
Starters ... 200
Non-starters... 300
Prize Gifts ... 1000
£3500 £5000
Prospectus on application.
The La Mascotte Company thanks the public for
their support in previous consultations, and hopes
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro-
gramme.
Application, by letter only.
Applicants please state for which event.
D. LINDO,
Box 733, P.O. ;
And Eastway’s Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
CHAMPION
PIGEON HANDICAP
OPEN TO ALL THE COLONIES,
TO BE SHOT AT GOULBURN, N.S.W.,
In August, 1883
(Between the Hawkesbury and Metropolitan
Ha co Meetings).
STEWARDS :
Messrs. R. C. Cooper, W. Davis S. Moyer, J. Sands,
H. Payton, F. Weston, A. Phelps, A. Badgery,
and F. Isaacs.
Grand handicap pigeon match, of 100
sovs, with a sweepstakes of 5 sovs. each
added for acceptors ; fifteen birds each ; 100 yards
boundary ; 13-boro guns : 154 of shot; handicap
from 31 to 38 yards : single trap ; use of one
barrel only. To be shot In squads, as may be
arranged, and numbers drawn for each shot.
Entrance fee of 1 sov., to bo paid on WEDNES-
DAY, 1st AUGUST. Handicaps to appear in all
sporting papers the following Saturday. Ac-
ceptances, which must be accompanied by amount
of 3 sovs., part of sweep, on MONDAY, 13th
AUGUST. Balance, 3 sovs., at 10 o’clock on the
morning of the match.
The prize of 100 sovs, and 50 per cent, of the
sweep for 1st, 35 per cent, for 3ud, and 10 per cent
of sweep for 3rd shooters.
HENRY PAYTEN, Sec.,
Goulbourn, N.S.W.
O N
JS I M P S
• IRONFOUNDER, &C.
Campehdown Foundry,
— Lambert-stroet. Camperdown, West Sydney,
Manufactures all kinds of ornamental Palisading.
Frieze, Fringe, and Brackets, Plain and Fluted
Columns, Window Mullions, Colonial Oven Grates,
and General Castings.
N.B.—Orders from the country punctually
M o. and forwarded by road, rail, or water.
attended to,
NO. Ifil KING STREET
(Near Tramway).—
Madame Weigel's PAPER
PATTERNS, cut In 12 sizes,
for Ladles and children.
Prices from Od. to 2s.. Wei-
gel’s Journal of Fashion, 7d.
Catalogue of Fashions, 3d,
Note the Address;—MA-
DAME WEIGEL, 161 King-
„ st. (near Tramway) Sydney.
Agent in Chippendale:
MRS. BEALES, Regent-street, near Public Schools.
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
lent under cover.free fr<
Sole Agent. Ho* 73s*. 6.P.O., Hydnay, N.8.W
Hoyd'i Heard Kllalr did thli. and will do it
on either bald bead or bara faaa. * great
heavy Moustache in from 3 to 4 weak* and
never falls, lo.ooo young men already wear
full heard, having used 1 to S pkt'i. No
injury, easily applied, certain In aiThci.
Packets Is. 6d. each,S for Sa. M.. post paid,
observation. Addrnai. FliANK DOUOLAI.
Aplitt and Robertson race at Bourkc on
36 th. £300 aside.
Balls, Banquets, Public or Private Parties.
Ballrooms tastefully decorated with Flag: or Floral
Decorations on reasonable temrs— Sale and Dare,
60>ts Hunter-street.*
The silent watches of the night are some-
how associated with no tick. But our souls have
always revolted at anything: which can’t be “ hung
up.” Now, if you want a good solid patent level - ,
which will hang up or lie down, or can be thrown
at the man who comes to wake you up In the
morning, and which will go just as well as ever,
Hollingdale and Son, of King-street, will supply
you with the very article, besides furnishing
jewellery so tasteful that it Is universally used for
seasoning entrees at Government House.*
Worthy champions of the working men!
The only members who voted against the second
reading of the Tramways Bill were Dan. O’Connor
and M'Elhone. The opposition of the former to
tramways is readily understood. They do not
afford him the opportunities which he seemed to
court, to appear at the Central to answer the
charge of furious driving over the streets of the
city. M'Elhone acknowledged that ho opposed the
tramways because his horse had been frightened
by an “infernal, murdering, manslauglitoring
motor.” H. B. Smith spoke against the Bill, but
did not vote against it. He had a personal reason.
It is not long since that his angelic self had what
the Herald called a “ Providential escape ” from
being knocked to “ smithereens ” by a steam
motor.
ON THE
SriclsfielcL Sill-
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
USiT* These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers.
LACE CURTAINS, lOO PRICES.
Ladies residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosouito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. £3f“ Examine carefully the engraving of our
“ LACE CURTAINS.”
► .
'i
K
k
9
.s
-x
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
[ LACE CURTAINS j 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS |
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
On the 31st May, the Sydney Amateur
Comedy Company gave an entertainment at the
Insane Hospital, Callan Park, and, of course, the
Superintendent treated them with hospitality—
though he didn’t keep them there. They played a
drama and a farce, with some sandwiched
between by way of relief. The Superintendent
then invited the S.A.C. Company to supper, and
expressed the pleasure his patients had enjoyed in,
at last, having* been treated to an entertainment
which they could understand.
♦ ♦ *
The Glebe Rowing Club Ball this Friday,
in the Town Hall, promises to he a fine affair. De
Groen provides the music, and the City Company
caters. But wo hope the ladies %von’t be scarce—
it’s their admirers’ own fault if they are.
♦ ♦ *
“What’s a hush, Ma?” “1 don’t know,
Tom 1 why?” “Because,” said Tom, “I asked
sister Amy what made her new dress stick out so
behind, and she said, * Hush! you stupid boy.’"
• • •
At a New Zealand wedding according to
the Lutheran rites, the bridegroom was asked the
usual question “if he was heart-free.” Imme-
diately on his answering “Yes,” a young lady in
the church rose and said, “ You lie, sir!’ It was
the old thing—he’d forgotten to get properly off
with the old love before he got on with the new.
But the old flame only flared up for a
was the sight of the rival did it, and she agreed to
let him go on condition of a humble apology and a
Sublic request to be forgiven. He complied, and
lenew love marched him off in-triumph.
• • •
How is this for high! From the 8.M.
Herald of Saturday :—‘ Y Gordon—Grant.—Feb-
ruary 23,1883, by the Rev. Dr. Steel, Arthur Hamil-
ton, second son of Sir W. H. Gordon, Bart., late of
Campbelltown, to Selina Mary Violet (Totty),
daughter of Mrs. M. A. Powell, and stepdaughter
of M. Powell, Esq., Holly Park, Auburn, grand-
daughter of the late Henry James Pitzmaurioe,
Captain of H.M. 3rd Buffs, great granddaughter of
the late James Fitzmaunce, Esq., Ballybunion
House, Kerry, Ireland, great grand niece of the
late Lord Henry Petty Fitzmaurice, Marquis of
Lansdown, and Duke of Kerry; also granddaughter
of the late John Thomas Meade, Esq., Limerick
and Belle View, Castle Connell, grand niece of the
late Major General Roach Meade, R.H.A.R.G.O.
Horse Guards, and grand niece of the late Richard
Harold Meade, Esq., Belle View, Castle Connell,
Ireland.” The Herald is mean enough to charge
five shillings tor the foregoing, which wo,
with our customary good-nature, print for
nothing. The subjoined, by the way, is clipped
from another paper:—“ Bingwell—Brown.—On
the 36th, at the residence of the bride’s parents, by
the Rev. Josephus Jungmore Bromley Wiggles-
wade, assisted by the Rev. Timothy Tugwell Turn-
over, Adolphus Fitzmaurice Maxwell Blodkins
Bluementhal, first cousin to Captain George Jen-
kins Jumpemup, 3rd Bengal Mounted Infantry,
nephew to Sir Titus Tickletub Patrick O’Rafferty,
of County Backgammon, Ireland, arid half third
cousin on his mother’s side to Lord Mountcashel's
first coachman, John Hopkins, Esq., and distantly
related through his aunt’s third husband’s nephew
to the Ramjee of Jellabadly’s head chef de cuisine,
Monsieur Adolphe Chones, to Annie, tenth daugh-
ter of William Brown, Esq., contractor, of Brown
Villa, Collingwood Even Surface * No cards.
Home and Indian papers please copy in full.
[Friends who were invited and didn’t come, please
forward presents to bride’s father.]”
m ♦ *
When a Cooktown girl loves, she docs love.
In'a breach of promise suit, the other day, it was
shown that a young lady wrote to her lover eight
times per day.
* * *
The third meeting of the Randwick Social
Assembly took place fn the Town Hall last Thurs-
day, and a large attendance gladdened the eyes of
the promoters. A Score or two came from the
metropolis and other suburbs, but the majority
wore Randwick residents. We will “make no deep
scrutiny” into the individuality of the charming
belles present, nor dwell on the wardrobe splen-
dors of any particularly queenly attire, nor discuss
the relative claims of Miss Jones and Miss Brown
to the first and second places of honour, while Miss
Robinson stands by till the point is decided, to be
finally brought In as an irritating third. . But in
one brief, vague, unindicative sentence we will
hesitatingly hint that “Blenheim” was nicely
represented, “Ventnor” attractively graceful,
‘ Sunnyside” equally pleasing, Surry Hills the
subject of silent worship, Darlinghurst somewhat
reserved, and that no bold intruder could take the
I) aim away from the local daughters of fash-
on. De Groen played cleverly, and Messrs.
Francis and Milford regulated the floor with
that irresistibly fascinating courtesy for which
they are sir famed. An additional propor-
tion of waltzes, for, by general
desire, and the change was Appreciated. Break up
about eleven.
* * * «
Some very pleasant evenings are spent at
the Newtown Private Skating Rink, where clink
and clatter, pretty girls, music and dancing, all
mix to make a merry medley. The Oddfellow's
Hall is rather limited in size, but you can fall just
as plump in a little hall as in a big one, with prac-
tice. A limit in area doesn’t really affect the main
part of the art of skating—Over £6000 net was
cleared for St. ,Patrick’s Cathedral fund at the
International Fair in Melbourne—Hornsby is an
(esthetic place on the Hawkesbury, where the Mte
held a ball on Queen’s Birthday, and danced thirty
quadrilles consecutively. They’re going to learn
the other dances by and bye. Owing to the taste-
ful decorations of the ballroom Including every-
thing excepting hatpegs, one young bachelors
ears caught (above tho crash of the band—one
fiddler) the pointed remark, intended for his
partner: “Oh, Teezy.I wouldn’t dance with a cove
as kept his ’at on.” He tried to blush, but could’nt
remember how. On finding, however, that the
silvery voice emanated from a lovely creature who
had given up dancing about the time he cut his
first teeth, he felt better. The ball was varied at
intervals by kiss-in-the-ring, and, as each young
bachelor took his innings, some splendid scores
were made, not counting “widcs and “byes.”
... Double marriages are in favour. A little
while ago, Misses Cassie and Martha, daughters
of Mr. John Dorrough, of Newtown View, Lis-
more, were married at the same time to Messrs.
A. W. Smith and J. H. Smith, of Kangaloon. The
ladies wore lavender silk and white satin, and were
very happy. Then, only a few days back, another
event happened, when Messrs. E. L. Wadley and F.
Wright, of Barmedman, were both sacrificed at one
fell swoop to Misses Naomi M’Intyre and Rebecca
Flecknoe, of Temora. A number of sympathisers
were present, and Rebecca wore rich grey silk and
broche, while Naomi looked lovely in dove cash-
mere Oddfellows’ ball at Toowoomba on 24th
May was a great success, and Mrs. William Camp-
bell, a study ip pink, was voted belle— It has been
decided to commemorate the Day of Independence
by an American ball again, this year, at Needs’
rooms; and the Consul will, as usual, receive visi-
tors at his office on that day Last Thursday,
John Meagher and Co., of Bathurst, had invita-
tions out for 800 guests for their banquet, to mark
completion of premises. Eight hundred! a Meagher
trifle A complimentary ball was given to the
Kennedy Family in the Athenaeum, Melbourne,
last week. Large proportion of guests in full
Highland costume gave the hall an unusual ap-
pearance. Mr. Kennedy concluded responding to
his health, proposed by Hon. James Munro, by
singing the ballad “ Say will we yet.” And after
Mr. Munro’s health, as president of the Caledonian
Society, had been toasted, “ Green grow the
rushes, oh!” made a capital wind up, and put the
girls into most amiable humour The real reason
why Chloe was removed from the Melbourne
National Gallery was because she hadn’t enough
chloes on. In fact, she was in that state of nature
which is called art Tickets for the Railway
Ball at Albury on 14th June are 30s. each,
but this includes free railway travelling to and fro.
A large number of persons will be present by in-
vitation. Those who go must be prepared for
pickpockets, who will be there in crowds. Banquet
takes place at 3 o’clock in the afternoon, and even-
ing costume is expected The R.C. Convent
Bazaar at Parramatta netted £400 in its four days’
run* Lady stallholders gave a dancing soiree to a
select invited circle a few days afterwards in the
Pavilion — Lots of bulls on Queen’s Birthday.
Fine one at Sofala; Working Men’s Ball at Hill-
ston; Early Closing Association’s first annual at
Wagga; and a good one at Kiama, with the elite
present, a recherche supper, and dancing till 3 a.m.
Two sisters, one in cream satin and figured silk,
the other in blue and white tarlatane, looked
charming; as did a dark-eyed young lady in pale
green and roses. A blonde wore a handsome dress
of pale blue silk and honlton lace. A local solici-
tor’s sister in black and cream, and the eldest
daughter of an auctioneer in cream cashmere and
forget-me-nots, looked extremely nice.. .The Hon.
J. H. Thomas and his pretty young wife were
passengers by the Ballarat, en route for Western
Australia, thd Sydney trip having been most
healthful to him... For some time it has been diffi-
cult to get up a real bad at Taree, but the last one
was a genuine success, as some girls were present.
The young men now employ all their spare time
in trying to get number-six dancing pumps on to
number-ten feet—A fashionable Ipswich wedding
on the 9th May was that of Mr. Sub-Inspector
Ahern to Miss Mary, daughter of Mr. Edward, and
sister of the Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C. The lady
wore rich white brocaded satin and splendid gold
jewellery, and looked very handsome, notwith-
standing she was Thynne To-morrow night
(Friday) a party of gentlemen give a Biead-
and-Butter Dance in the School of Arts, Bur-
wood Melbourne mashers wear gold bracelets.
So do a number of Sydney male Idiots
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann gives a matinee
rauslcale on Saturday, 10th June, when many of
her pupils will perform at the Protestant Hall
Observe: the Masonic ball (Australian Social Lodge,
I.C., No. 300) in the Town Hall has been postponed
from June 31 to July 3. This sensible alteration
prevents clashing with the Mercantile Judge
!?aul, of Brisbane, was entertained at a banquet
there on Saturday, prior to leaving for England...
Dr. (“Plevna”) Ryan, of Melbourne, is to marry
Miss Summer, of that city, in July —Five hundred
miserable# attended the dinner of the Mayor of
Sandhurst (Mr. C. E. Harkness) on Wednesday last.
Mr. Harkness is a rabid teetotaller, so the flowing
bowl was boycotted.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Britannia C.C. Ball (Parramatta) June 8
Glebe Rowing Club Annual Ball June 8
Sydney Owl Club Ball (Town Hall) June 14
Woollahra Private Assembly )Nithsdale).. June 15
Masonic Ball, E.C. (Exhibition) Juno 19
Mercantile Rowing Club Ball (Exhibition). June 21
Ashfleld Assembly June 22
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) June 22
Engineering Association Conversazione... June 2S
Masonic Ball, I.C. (Town Hall) July 5
Newcastle R.C. Ball July 6
Balmain R.C. Ball (Town Hall) July 13
H. M. Chester, Esq.
The formal act of annexing New Guinea to
the British Empire was performed by the
gentleman whose portrait appears in our
front page. Mr. Chester is Resident Magis-
trate at Thursday Island, a position for
which he possesses eminent qualifications.
Mr. Chester, in his youth, was in the navy
of the Hon. East India Company, in which
service he had attained the rank of lieu-
tenant when the Indian Mutiny led to the
substitution of the Imperial authority for
that of “ John Company.” The Indian navy
was abolished, and Mr. Chester was ap-
pointed British representative at the Court of
the Sultan of Muscat. He subsequently came
to Queensland, where a post in the Civil Ser-
vice. as Land Agent and C.P.S. at Gladstone,
Port Curtis, was conferred on him. The
present Acting-Governor, Sir A. H. Palmer,
a man of somewhat overbearing manners,
was at that time politically connected with
the Port Curtis district, and, as Mr. Chester
was quite as independent and stiff-backed,
the two did not agree. Unsupported by
political influence, and under the ban of
one of the most powerful men of the day,
Mr. Chester had pretty rough times. The
land agency at Gladstone was abolished as
unnecessary, and Mr. Chester was permitted
to cool his heels in Brisbane for a long time
before another post was provided for him.
At last the Police Magistracy at Somerset,
Cape York, became vacant, and the ex-
lieutenant was appointed, and filled the
position with credit. On Mr. Palmer tak-
ing office, however, the former holder
of the position was reinstated, and Mr.
Chester removed, without receiving any
consideration. But a little later Mr.
Jardiue definitely resigned, to give his
whole attention to pearling pursuits, which
it had been alleged he had dabbled in
even during his tenure of the post, and Mr.
Chester’s claims and qualifications could not
be denied, and he was reinstated at once.
Since then his service has been continuous.
When Somerset was condemned as unsuit-
able for the site of a settlement, Mr. Chester
removed to Thursday Island, in charge. A
smart schooner, the Pearl, previously em-
ployed in the Admiralty surveys, was placed
at his disposal, and in this vessel he made
frequent official visits to the New Guinea
coast. She was no doubt the ship in which
he made his now historical trip to hoist the
British flag. Mr. Chester is a middle-aged
man, of sturdy physique, and hearty man-
ner. He was a great favourite with his asso-
ciates in the Queensland Civil Service prior
to his official exile to partibus infi-dclim. As
a gentleman of good family and education,
he would be a fit recipient of any distinction
which might be distributed in connection
with the annexation. We have known a far
inferior man knighted for infinitely slighter
service in a nearly identical mission. Need
we say that —ahem!
[Our portrait is from a photo, furnished by Mr.
w. T. Bennett of the San Francisco Palace of Art.]


BEAD IT ALL.
If may Save your Life.
hop bittera
ARE
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and In addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being: the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring-agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladles, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.
“No matter what your feelings or
* symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters a*
‘ once. It may safe your life., Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do mot suffer yourself or let your
* friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made.
‘and no person or family should be
‘without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHAM,
T-A-I3L.OI3,
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
“ The Apparel oft proclaims the Man."
MR. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
in the United States and Europe (London, Paris,
Berlin, &c.), and has arranged for the introduction
per each Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduction by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, &e.
CLOTHING is made up at the shortest notiqo by
the best talent in Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions in
Art and Material guaranteed.
Ballroom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr. J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen in the most distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention and Advice given In matters of
Dress, Style, &c., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
?W~ For the protection of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures 531 are of mammoth
dimensions—the largest on any establishment in
all Australia.
|W The Fashionable World of Australia, and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements In this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MULLINER, LEAMINGTON.
STANHOPE PHAETONS; DOG, TANDEM,
and SPORTING CARTS ; Barouches, Landaus,
Coaches, Harness, &c., Builder to H.M. the Queen,
H.I.M. the Empress of Austria, His Grace the
Duke of Beaufort, &c., &c.
Orders telegraphed (30s.) and executed in seven
weeks. English prices. Coloured designs of latest
fashions kept in stock.
WILKINSON , WILLIAMS and CO.
ROYLE’S CHAMBERS,
BOND STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluonza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable In Croup. This Is the best expectorant
now In use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for ir AnNOLD 8
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
£2000.—The “ Australasia Sweep ” on the
“Melbourne Cup” is for £3000, at 5s. per share—
an even four, 30s. First horse takes £1000; second,
£500; third, £250; starters, £150; non-starters, £100.
Total, £3000; and £1000 distributed in Prizes. Re-
sults of drawing will be advertised in Syndey and
Melbourne papers, and result circulars mailed to
all subscribers throughout the colonies. Those
making application are requested to enclose notes
in registered letter; or if crossed cheques, payable
to “ Australasia ” or Bearer (with exchange stamps
added), and 4d. stamps for replv and result. Appli-
cation, as usual, by registered letter. Ten per cent,
deducted for all expenses. Address—“ Austral-
asia,” care of Mr. H. J. Franklin, publisher, 40
Hunter-street, Sydney.—Advt.
POLITICAL POINTS.
Farnell revoking the reserves of large areas
of land all about the colony.
It is said that the Bray Ministry will get
but short shrift when the 8.A. Parliament meets.
But it is also said, with probable truth, that in
case of an adverse vote the Bray Ministry will pre-
vail on Sir William Kobinson to grant a dissolu-
tlon.
Last week, Garrany offered the public
the following conundrum: “Of the one hundred
and thirteen members composing the Assembly,
only fifteen failed to attend duiing the day; and of
these one was the now Postmuster-General, and
the other was Mr. W. C arke, absent loom the
colony." How about the other thirteen—the miss-
ing baker's dozen 1 Now, had there boon eighteen
Taylors absent, wo could understand the Joke or
boiling them down Into two.
Rev. F. Barham Zinoke predicts that by
1980 the Anglo-Saxon race, t.e., English-speak-
ing democracy, will number 1,000,090,000 souls, of
whom 800,000,000 will live under the rule of the
United States, 04,000,000 in Canada, 48,0W.(X)0 1n An«
tralla, 16,000,000 in South Africa, and 70,000,000 in
the United Kingdom. This groat race will bo
typified in the American farmer. The peasant
will bo unknown In the new worlds; ho will be-
come extinct In England, and will be succeeded by
the farmer.
We read in the Times’ (London) weekly
edition of 16th March last that at a weekly meeting
of the Board of Guardians of Killarney Union, on
Wednesday, a respectable-looking farmer named
M'Mahon applied for relief. He said he had been
recently evicted, and that his daughter, Ellon, aged
18 years, being ill at the time, died immediately
after they wore evicted. In order to Reiter her,
he took the door off its hinges, but the bailiffs
pulled It away again, and they had nothing with
which to cover the remains but a sheet I
When it comes to a question of keeping
the “Joe Brady's” and Carey's chickens under
strict control, the “grand old man "and Buckshot
Forster are nowhere beside the Sawney Bean
who runs the Glasgow Herald. According to
that authority, “ To govern an Irishman y°u must
first got him down, then you must kick him till ho
can’t get up, then you must sit on him in case he
comes to.” And, by the way, over 1000 men were
arrested under Mr. Forster’s warrants, only one of
whom was brought to trial up to the date of
the Chief Secretary’s resignation.
Truth says:—“Though wrong, it is intelli-
gible why Lords Wolseloy and Alcester should
receive £3000 a year for life; but I defy any one to
explain or understand why the next twomales of
these noblemen should each receive £2000 a year
for life also. We don’t treat the heirs male of
other distinguished men in this way. If the new
Archbishop of Canterbury were to answer Darwin
—a feat which, if he could ever accomplish it,
would be quite as remarkable as the bombardment
of Alexandria or the taking of T^& Keb jf~we
should not vote the prelate s son £3000 a year for
life after his father's death. Why should the
slaughter of foreigners be always made the occa-
sion of a comfortable little annuity to the son of
the distinguished Englishman who has had the
luck to be the butcher ?”
The French army of ’83 includes every
Frenchman capable of bearing arms. Even in the
primary schools there are battalions of scholars.
A simple telegraphic message will call into the held
three millions of armed, disciplined, and trained
men round the banner of the Republic. The active
array contains 641 battalions of infantry, 393 squa-
drons of cavalry, 494 batteries of artillery. 80 com-
panies of sappers, 4 of railway workmen, 38 of pon-
toons, and 60 of train. The territorial army com-
prises 486 battalions of Infantry, 335 squadrons of
cavalry, 339 batteries of artillery, 54 companies of
sappers, 36 squadrons of train. The arsenals are
completely stored, and the “ magazines packed
with clothes, shoos, harness, and tents. The cavalry
is said to be the weakest feature, every other
branch being nearly perfection.”
The passing into law of the Explosives
Bill bv the House of Commons was of unexampled
rapidity. At 5.33, Sir W. Haroourt rose to ask
leave for its introduction; at 6.19 he brought it in;
by 6.58 it had passed three more stages by leaps and
bounds, and was emerging from Committee; and
at 7 the Explosive Substances Bill had been road a
third time and despatched to the House of Lords.
Queen’s messengers, special trains, and even the
Queen were all in waiting to hurry its passage; but
a delay arose in the House of Lords (those somno-
lent old fossils), which did not deal with it till next
dav. The special train had steam up for several
hours, and the harnessed horses stood in the car-
riage shafts at Windsor to convey the messenger to
the Castle, where the Queen sat up till two in the
morning—while the fossils bungled or dozed. It
became law, however, within 34 nours.
Thus the Saturday Review on the Eng-
land of To-dayWhat a frightful picture might
be drawn, and without the least exaggeration, of
the things that go on daily in pur streets: the mil-
lions of men who never open their mouths without
an oath, and never utter a single noun substantive
without prefixing one and the same ugly and mean-
ingless adjective; the shameless vice which hides
not its head even at high noon; the Embankment,
where men are nightly set upon, robbed, and
thrown into the river; the gambling clubs; the
suburban races; the courts into which no decent
Eerson may venture by day or night; the muSic
alls and their senseless and mischievous songs;
the drinking; the wife-beating; the starvation.
Were all those things written down, a picture
might be produced which would make the London
of Victoria compare with the Rome of Nero.
Modern London’s want is evidently a Juvenal.
The Hon. Major Atkinson, Colonial Treiv-
surer of Now Zealand, has been lecturing through-
out the different centres of the colony on Pauper-
ism. The Treasurer proposes to pass a law
compelling every male and female in the colony,
from the ages of 16 to 30, to pay a sura of £43 into
the Colonial Treasury; and if they live to the ago
of 65, they are to receive 15s. a week thereafter till
thev die. If they die before they are 65, that’s
their business, and the Treasurer does not propose
to interfere; but ho thinks, with such a magnificent
prospect in store for them, they will live on till
they arc entitled to draw on the Treasury. When
we reach the age of 65, wo intend to go and reside
in Now Zealand, and exchange clothes with one of
these venerable pensioners, previously taking care
to chloroform the old chap and send him up in a
balloon. Then we will interview the Colonial
Treasurer, and bo happy for a hundred years or so
on this regal and munificent allowance.
Sir Henry Parkes’ observations during the
recent discussion on prison management were
very pertinent. One of the greatest obstacles to
proper discipline is the Impossibility of classifica-
tion in those barns up the country designated
gaols. Had this been in vogue, those disgraceful
proceedings among the oonflnces at Goulburn
prison last August would have been impossible.
The authorities in D arlinghurst, who have every
facility for th# duo punishment of refractory
larrikins and chronic ruffians, invariably endea-
vour to shift this scum of turbulent criminality on
to some country gaol, where means of punishment
arc restricted. Anywhere, in fact, so long as the
trouble is removed from Darlinghurst. A free
excursion up country is not unpleiising to the
gaol-birds, who on reaching their new destina-
tion do their best to make the local authorities
only too glad in their turn to get them shifted to
another prison. A lot of public money is squan-
dered in this style.
At the Philadelphia Convention of the
Irish National Land League of America, Mrs.
Parnell (the mother of Charles Stewart) was intro-
duced. She said: “I have been asked to crown
with a wreath of laurel the immortal statesman,
legislator, and President, George Washington. The
position of Ireland to-day is almost similar to that
of our country in the Revolutionary war, and I
have inherited a drop of that old blood, which
gives me additional claim on you. My father said,
and I sustain him, that the party which secures
and maintains a position in an enemy’s country is
sure to com© out ahead. 1 deny that my son has
not secured that position.” Mrs. Parnell then placed
a wreath of laurel on a bust of George Washing-
ton. The chairman announced that Mrs. Parnell
had been elected president of the Ladles’ National
Land League of America. A resolution of condo-
lence with Michael Davitt, the Father of the
League, incarcerated for a third time in a British
dungeon, was unanimously adopted.
There is something just a little provocative
of mirth in the new career Queensland has struck
out for herself. Some years ago, partly, if not
mainly, through the representation of the Aus-
tralian colonies, Fiji became a British possession.
Considering that the placing of those islands under
the Union Jack would remove from Australians
the possibility of undesirable neighbours, English
statesmen naturally enough concluded that the
colonies would pay all, or part, of the salary
allotted to the Governor of the now dependency.
But, when the matter was delicately hinted, the
colonial authorities puckered their Ups, buttoned
their pockets, and refused a penny towards the
cost of administration. The same reason that
prompted Australian statesmen and writers to ad-
vocate the annexation of FIJI (the very natural
desire of keeping possibly unpleasant people at a
safe distance) was “ to the fore ” in the Now Guinea
business. Notwithstanding the late telegrams, Is
It not just possible that the Radicals will succeed
In Inducing the Impcfrlal authorities to say: ‘ Very
well. You undertook this thing for your own
benefit. Wo will back you up—provided you raise
the necessary funds for the indispensable officials
and the necessary men for their protection ’ ?
“ Brutal natures” (London Town Talk in
the Arqus) “have two especial attributes, savagery
and ignorance. . . . They (the baser kind of
Irishmen) are stupid beyond belief.” Pat has been
accused of various things—with justice often, as
often without. It is seldom, however, that stu-
Eidity” 1s sheeted home to him. None more
onestly and vehemently repudiate the “ dynamit-
ists” than Irishmen of all creeds. People do not
condemn English, Scotch, French. Russians, or
Germans Indiscriminately, when their assassins
shock human nature. But, let an Irish murderer
blow up a house, or sneak behind a statesman to
send a knife between his ribs, and it is “the brutal
ferocity of the noxious race.” To partially bru-
talise a nation by moans of Inhuman laws, operat-
ing through centuries, and then condemn It for
the perverseness largely traceable to those laws, Is
the very height of unreason. So far, however, as
« stupidity” is concerned, let those who have
mixed with the canaUle of Groat Britain, Franco,
Germany, and Ireland, tell us on which side the
“stupidity” lies. Threatened by every Journal
from the Times to the Age, venomously carica-
tured by every raj? from Judy to the Melbourne
Punch, it is really wonderful how the “ noxious
race” still increases and thrives.
THE OLD LEGEND ADAPTED.
A politician sought a patron,
A saintly sire or saintly matron,
Duly canonized by Peter.
“ Surely,' siurhed the Father sadly,
“ You want a saintly patron badly.
The land is dark without her lustre;
Without her voice sick'dummies cluster,
And statesmen’s souls are bought with money.
I’ll do my level best, ray sonny,
To get you meet her,
Or him, for gender is no puzzle.
Just bind your eyes and shut your muzzle,
And come with mo. This is St. Peter’s,
Where all the statues In all metros
Of all the powers that blight and save
Were built about in aisle and nave.
Now grope, and I will pray beside you
That Heaven’s blessing may betide you—
For Heaven gives to each behest
The patron saint that suits it best.
The groping statesman seized the knee
Of a huge statue. “ Ha,” said he,
“ That’s tlio saint will stand by mo
In senate feud or senate revel 1
Especially when money’s going.”
“ Ha,’ cried the Father, “hang my blowing!
Why, that’s the devil.”
* * *
Premier Stuart has forgotten his logic.
He said in the House the other evening: “ I am in
no way connected with American firms. . . I am
agent for firms in every part of the world.” Does
not the universal Include the particular ?—A. G.
Taylor was on the track of a job when he moved
for the papers connected with the vacant cap-
taincy in the Permanent Artillery. Not every
fellow who can pass the required exam, is fit for
the billet, yet no fellow who can’t pass it should
Set the step. That should bo clear, even to
.oberts.
Irish National Land League of America
has 650 branches thus distributed: New York has
138, Massachusetts 140, Connecticut 49, Pennsylva-
nia 44, Iowa 33. Now Jersey 19, Ohio 14, Missouri
Michigan, and Rhode Island 13 each, Illinois 11, and
New Hampshire 10. Total amount received by the
society from April 13, 1883, to April 35, 1883,
79,038 dollars....In the House of Commons, last
Thursday, the O’Kelly challenged Buckshot For-
ster to mortal combat. The Speaker summoned
O’Kelly to appear at the bar to answer for his
militant behaviour, but matters have now been
arranged.... Germany and the Vaticau can’t hit on
a modus vivendi French garrison at Hanoi an-
noyed by Anamoso. Reinforcements on way out...
Return of tonnage of steam vessels in European
continental merchant service shows France first,
Germany second, Italy third, and Holland fourth.
The steam merchant tonnage of the British Empire
is ten times that of France. ...Colins, the Belgian
“ Collectivist ” Socialist, says the stage which
European civilisation has now reached is that of
social ignorance, in which immorality spreads in
Sortion as intelligence devolopes... The coro-
m of the Czar seems to have been accom-
plished without even an attempt at Interruption
by the Nihilists. Arrests made a few weeks prior
to the ceremony brought to light documents
showing that the Nihilists Intended to defer
operations until after the celebration, when
the authorities would be loss on their guard....
When it was announced the other day In the
Commons that the Queen would be represented at
the Czar’s ooronatlo* by the Duke of Edinburgh,
Labouohere said he was opposed to these special
missions. We did not send one to Washington,
and, in his opinion, the Inauguration of a President
of a Republic was a far greater occasion than the
coronation of an Emperor. Wo had an Ambas-
sador at St. Petersburg, and If ho were competent
to undertake Important diplomatic business he
must be equal to the tom-foolery in question.
A correspondent “ wants to know whether
It is the correct thing for a country police-magis-
trate, whoso duty it is to attend small debts’ courts
at outlying towns, and administer what is called
justice, to partake of a litigant’s hospitality on the
way in, drive the litigant to town, and then try his
case.” Supreme Court judges never do anything
of the kind. But then country police magistrates
are much superior to Supreme Court judges.
The aboriginal “ Larry,” who recently got
into trouble at Normanton, and whose trade was
said to be the trafficking in black gins, is no other
than the “ Tar Pot ” of the aboriginal cricketing
eleven that visited England many years ago.
Larry can box well, and is a trained athlete in
many other manly exercises. He is a native of
Maitland, N.S.W., and has been a trooper m his
day, being able to stick to the worst buck he has yet
come across. He is a fluent talker, and doesn’t
murder the Queen’s English half as much as an
average Alderman.
Shooting within the Manly municipality
is strictly prohibited. The other day George
Thornton, jun., equally renowned as a punster and
as an assassin of gill-birds, saw a man sneaking
along, and apparently endeavouring to “plant
himself. He was about to slaughter gill-birds,
concluded George, and must be stopped. So the
Jester of Manly went for him.” It so happened
that the other fellow went for George at the very
same moment, and when they savagely clinched in
the scrub, George found himself in the arms of—a
policeman. Explanations followed, and the matter
whs cleared un with profuse apologies.
SAVED!
Salvation Army Officer; “There is your home. It’s never closed to the sinner. It’s
ever open to you.” , ,
Rapid Convert; “Give us your hand (hlo)I Open after ’leven o clock! Not close
all day Sunday! I’m with you ” (hie).
