

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 33—New Series
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1883.
Price—6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN’
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S. W.—THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETIN’S" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “ THE BULLETIN ” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1883,
The Bitter Cry of Outcast London.
A pamphlet which has recently been issued
in London, bearing the above title, is ex-
citing considerable comment from the Press
all over the world, at the present time.
There is one thing pre-eminently remark-
able about the current dissertations on the
text, and that is the apparently universal
agreement of journalists to treat the pam-
phlet as though it contained a revelation,
and its descriptions as novel and previously
unheard-of. The attitude of the Press in
relation to this matter corresponds, in fact,
to that of the sensationally impressionable
classes when undergoing the periodical ex-
citement known as a revival. The oldest
and most threadbare texts, and doctrines,
and expressions are received with enthusi-
asm as new and surprising. The scheme of
atonement and salvation is greeted as though
it had just been invented and announced.
So with Outcast London. There is not a
statement in the pamphlet, there is not a
description amidst its revolting and har-
rowing details, which has not been published
and commented upon time after time. The
horrible misery and grinding poverty of the
London vei y poor has not, indeed, been “ a
household word.” Podsnappery has habitu-
ally set its face against such disgusting
themes being intruded into the placid inter-
course of the domestic circle, upsetting the
Ideas of the rising generation, disturbing
the easy consciences of self-satisfied re-
spectability, and, above all, shocking the
sensibilities of “ the young person ” of the
gentler sex.
• • •
Troublesome persons, of upsetting dis-
position, have persisted in thrusting such
matters into notice. Respectable persons,
with "well-regulated” minds, have sedu-
lously refused to appear conscious. In
short, that inestimable body, so dear to the
heart of Podsnap, “ all right-thinking
persons,” have preferred not to be aware
that such conditions existed. To admit that
they prevailed, aud are actually chronic
conditions of life, would have involved
other admissions too shocking to be con-
templated with equanimity. It would have
involved, for example, admission that the
popular sentimentality so highly favoured by
the comfortable classes is a sham. That, for
instance, although the stately homes of
England so beautifully stand aud the
cottage homes of England do ditto, there
are city homes or England which consti-
tute a libel upon civilization, an outrage
upon humanity, and a defiance of the jus-
tice of God. It would have involved an
Admission that under our glorious con-
stitution. a considerable proportion of
JJritona, who never, never shall be
slaves, are housed worse than the most
barbarous savages—fed worse than swine—
ground down to a depth of wretchedness,
degradation and immorality compared with
which the lot of the servile class of old
Rome or of the helots of Greece was gilde d
luxury and bright enjoyment. It would
have involved an admission that the charity
which busied itself with the condition of
the South Sea Islanders—revelling, as these
were, in a savage and bloody idolatry and a
happy sensualism—was a grim and selfish
fraud—a shameless pretence, devised to
quiet uneasy consciences by palming off an
imposture upon Omnipotence. It would
have involved an admission that the solemn
services of churches and chapels were more
shameless trumperies than any other —that
the exaltation of Spurgeon’s Tabernacle and
the operatic mummeries of the Cathedral
were alike hollow, heartless, and audacious
under the all-pervading eye of Omniscient
power. It would have involved an admission
that the current declarations that there
existed a Sovereign who loved the people, a
Parliament which cared for and represented
the people, and Bishops who lived only to
guard the souls of the people, are arrant
fictions invented for the better ease of
selfish and careless minds.
* ♦ •
Therefore the constantly recurring de-
monstrations that a terribly large propor-
tion of Englishmen are trodden down into a
condition below that of the brute creation
has been as constantly stifled, thrust aside,
ignored, with a hard and resolute determina-
tion not to hearken to such things. There are
cycles of real horror and mock repentance,
and the present moment is one of them. The
comfortable classes are passing through the
throes of one of their periodical revivals—
revivals of responsibility and consciousness
as hollow and as transient as those mock-
religious ones which from time to time
affect the ignorant and susceptible with
UflJQtion, and drive a percentage
babbling or raving into the lunatic asylums.
We witness afresh the customary affectation
of surprise, the recurrent pretence of dis-
covery. We hear the clamour of recrimi-
nation, and the frothy declarations that
“ something 1 ’ must be done. And we know
with all the assurance of experience that
nothing effectual will be done—that at the
first voicing of practical counsel the privi-
leged and propertied classes will shut their
hearts again with a snap, and rend the air
with angry shrieks that the throne, the
constitution, true religion, the rum in-
terest, the rights of property, vested
rights, the structure of society, are
assailed and in peril—and the repent-
ance of a moment will be knocked on
the head with the club of near-sighted sel-
fish interests, and the national conscience
salve.i once more by some trumpery pal-
liative, and all •will go on as before—towards
the deluge. For the terrors of rank, of
property, of religion (so-called), of rum, of
vested rights, are truly bound up with the
perpetuanee of all this misery, filth, immor-
ality, and shame. As surely as there is a
big end to anything, there must also be a
small end. So surely as one class enjoys
more than its share of property, of influence,
of education, of that sort of refinement
which costs money to attain or maintain, so
surely must some other class suffer from
insufficiency of all these things. The trouble
is that the lucky will not recognise the
inevitable nature and connection of intense
want and misery with extreme luxury and
untrammelled enjoyment, and jj>e£fij}t in
clinging to conditions the inequality of
which is becoming just as intolerable to the
wretched as it is dear to the fortunate.
* * «
That there must be modifications of political
and social arrangements, every disinterested
and capable observer must see; and if these
modifications be not granted from above,
they will surely be snatched from below.
The very poor and depraved are power-
less to improve their position by gentle
or constitutional methods. They are shut
out from constitutional recognition, despite
the much-vaunted liberty of British institu-
tions, and they have been debased below the
standard where appreciation of gentle and
indirect methods is possible. It is for the
classes who have, by securing more than a
just share of means and leisure, also secured
more than a fair share of instruction, and
culture, and intelligence, to make the neces-
sary sacrifice*, and make easy the impending
changes, by creating as an emollient the sen-
timent of gratitude in the bosoms of their
long-suffering brethren. Thus, a peaceful
revolution may be accomplished. The throne
may go, the nobility may have to denude
themselves of unearned privileges, vested
interests may have to be cast overboard, the
constitution may have to be replaced, the
rights of property may have to be admitted
to be the wrongs of poverty, society may
have to be remodelled: but it may, by con-
cessions from above, be effected with the
minimum of jar and by progressive stages.
If, however, all reasonable concession be
refused, and Church, State, and “ respect-
ability” combine to resist effectual ameliora-
tion of the nation, because that can only
be secured by their abdication of advan-
tages they have accustomed themselves to
regard as divinely granted them — why,
then the changes will still assuredly be
effected, but by rough and disastrous
methods. An Englishman is still an Eng-
lishman, though he languish in a cellar and
eat scrag-ends of refuse meat, with the
corpse of his only child, unburied, under
the table. His blood is, though thinned by
privation, of the same origin ; his disposition
as resolute though slow, as ever. He will
not endure wrong and misery unspeakable
for ever. One day, he will surely be up and
doing; and, when he does begin, there will
be crowns on the scaffold, mitres in the mire,
and wigs of rare judicial quality on the
green.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Ago" and Harper, B.D.
The Age of the 7th instant, in discussing the theo-
logical relation which Mr. Andrew Harper has
established between himself and the Melbourne
Presbytery, presents some singular views for the
aeceptanco of its readers. The views referred to
do not precisely belong to the discussion at all.
When a sentence in an Age leader strikes you as
being very right or very wrong, you generally
find that that sentence was jerked into the column
in an independent sort of way, and doesn’t come
out of what went Lefere, or taper into what goes
after. Either the writer worked among interrup-
tions, or his MS. was interpolated. In the case of
Mr. Harper, it is recognised that Mr, Harper,
when he found himself out of accord with the
Presbytery rn certain phases of doctrine, at once
stated his position temperate ly, if publicly. The
statement amounted to a declaration—quite a
necessary one at that particular juncture—that
ho did not want to stand before the eyes of his
clerical frienfs otherwise than he stood before
those of his own mind. This was certainly manly.
He doubted, and he said he doubted; he ceased to
believe, and he told his church so. But the Age
says “it may be doubted whether it would be well
for the highest interest of the church that men
should be perpetually proclaiming their scruples
and passing doubts. Every public avowal of
the sort would be, so to speak, a new
signing of articles of faith, and a man before he
arrived at his journey’* end would find himself
MR. C. J. JEANNERET.


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
1ST P U R E RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Mle DsjiirW,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
~~edL '
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
BED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The host Wholesome or all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle,
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HBNNBSSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDT,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney,
perilously encumbered by the different protesta-
tions he had made.” There are qualifying tones in
the above quotation. The things in dispute are
called “ scruples and passing doubts.” But, if
they are unimportant, what harm can their pro-
clamation do? And, if they bo important, is not
the man, if wo are striving after honesty at all,
dishonest while ho suppresses them ? Further
what man can hush his soul to rest with the notion
that his doubt is “a passing” one? it is not a
doubt at all, if he can regard it as such. But, in
plain point of fact, the argument of the article is
aimed at a man whoso proclamation is a terse
statement of unbelief in certain doctrines. To
Secure a firmer basis for inculcating intellectual
dishonesty, it has pleased the Age to call his
heresy “scruples and passing doubts,” or to work
out its principle as if these were the heart and
soul of bis nonconformity. It is well that the
clerics of Victoria are not as foolish i s the laics of
Victoria. They do a deal of hushing up, it is true,
and there is among them ever so much make-
believe and prostitution of conscience ; but, if
they were as foolish as the laics, they would make
public profession of believing in the Age, would
follow its doctrines, and act upon its teachings,
and would “ star ” before Christendom as the most
disingenuous of humbugs. In politics, such things
can be done, and people only laugh. But, if they
be attempted publicly in religion well, who dare
say that the people are to be deprived of the right
of cursing ?
Compensation Again
(1?HE anxiety of Mr. Vaughn, M.L.A., to introduce
a Dill to provide for payment of compensation by
the State for all lands taken from private persons
for public roads, highways, and streets, and all
expenses incurred thereby, appears to indicate a
desire to have a fresh pull at that patient milch-
cow, the Public. Everyone is aware that compen-
sation from the State habitually involves the
plunder of the taxpayers for the benefit of the
few. The party with a claim seldom fails to
devote his energies to engineer It, while the public
are represented by officials or others who find It
little to their interest to oppose too severe a per-
tinacity to the generally extravagant demands of
the claimant. The Minister for Mines, Mr. Abbott,
•was taken to task for his indisposition to accept
Mr. Vaughn’s resolution. Several members lec-
tured the Minster, as though it were the duty of
the Government to assent to the introduction of
every Bill proposed by any hon. member, even
although opposed to its essential propositions.
q?his appears to be sheer nonsense. If any member
Or minister recognise in a proposed measure a
principle essential to it, to which he could under
no circumstances yield assent, he certainly facili-
tates rather than obstructs business by signifying
his repugnance at the outset. If a majority share
his views, the matter is shelved there and then,
And is not permitted to crowd the business paper
and occupy the time of the House to the exclusion
of more likely measures. Although the House
assented to Mr. Vaughn’s desire to introduce the
Bill, it is to be hoped that its provisions and pro-
gress will bo carefully and zealously watched.
According to the arguments of thoso favourable
to it, the measure promises to bo but a new in-
strument for transferring, from the pockets of the
many to the purses of the few, more of that
** unearned increment” which has fattened so many
die but speculative persons. It was advanced
as a case in point that land which had been pur-
chased from the Government at £1 per acre
might pass through successive ownerships at
Increasing values until it rose to £50 per acre,
which it would be but just that the State should
pay for any portion resumed. Thus having sold
50 acres for £30, the State might be compelled
later to repay the whole purchase money for one-
flftieth of the area, although the contract of
sale specifically reserved to the State the right to
resume for certain purposes without any compen-
sation at all. There arc two ways in which the
matter may be regarded. First that the contract
should hold good without any exception. This
might operate severely in some cases. Secondly,
that compensation should be allowed at the
original cost plus any improvement made upon
the area actually resumed and not removable
without loss. Compensation for unexhausted
improvements should be recognised in all agrarian
contracts. But, in many cases, a resumption for
road and other public purposes frequently oper-
ates so as to enhance the value of the adjoining
land to an extent far more than sufficient to com-
pensate for the severance and the reduction of
area. If Mr. Vaughn introduces a Bill, it
will be the duty of the people’s repre-
sentatives to see that It cuts both ways;
and that the State, if required to p ly for deprecia-
tion and loss, should be entitled to recoup itself by
extending its resumptions, and by subsequent
re-sale of areas so acquired, for all additions of
value which its resumptions or severances, coupled
with creation of roads or other public works, may
confer on adjacent lands. The public may be
perfectly assured that Mr. Vaughn and his
backers would not have half the appetite for a Bill
which would be fair to the State as they have for
a Bill which would provide only for putting the
people’s money into land-owners’ pockets.
Black and Blue.
TBE Butchers and the Parsons are in combination
to promote the closing of butchers’ shoos on Sun-
days. What we want to know is this—why should
the Legislature be invoked to strike a peace be-
twixt discordant butchers, and get them out of a
difficulty of their own making ? And why (but
this is their own affair) do the parsons rely on the
arm of flesh In a matter of purely spiritual con-
cern ? Why should all butcher/ shops be closed
upon Sundays? Are the masses so well supplied
with refrigerators, with cool pantries, with well-
ventilated larders, that the burden of keeping
meat fresh from Saturday night t6 Sunday fore-
noon should be taken off <he shoulders of the
butchers? It is very bad, no doubt, that well-to-do
Church-goers should be disturbed by poor Sunday
meat-purchasers; and yet, ’tis probable that far
less mischief would result to the community from
the Sabbatarian Church-goer being disturbed by
many matres families buying meat on the Lord’s
Day, than from many matres famiiias having to
stow away quantities of meat, too often the reverse
of prime—i i LtnuIJ, close, ill-drained and badly-
ventilated tenements. If Legislative action is to
be invoked, let It be for compelling every butcher
to have an ice-room, and every parson —to mind
his own business.
The Case of Captain Armstrong, R.N.
The action of the Legislative Assembly in regard
to Captain Armstrong’s case, goes to prove a
whole lot of things—inter alia, that a fellow’s first
loss is the best; that no fellow should ever expect
to get justice from a body the majority of which
is composed of lawyers and commission agents
that the Assembly egrcgiously stultified it-
self ; that the Government, in endeavouring to
blow hot and cold with the same breath—to white-
wash Moore and not blackwash Armstrong—
made a most lamentable display of backboneless-
ness ; and that Sir John Robertson is as able as
ever to utter floods of unfounded insinuation
against a man whose public record is as clean and
honourable as his own, and of unwarranted
gush as a memorial tribute to the qualities of an
old colleague. Had Sir John simply confined
himself to buttering the memory of John Bowie
Wilson wc wouldn’t say a single word, though we
might think a lot—the Wilsons, Watsons, Gar-
retts, Bakers, et cetera, being what they were
or are. But what utter meanness prompted the
Knight of Clovelly, the man who is always blowing
about his down-to-the-ground manliness, to insinu"
ate that Armstrong had marks against himwhen he
appointed him to Lord Howe’s Island 1 “They
could not,” says Robertson, “get a man to go to
a place like Lord Howe’s Island who had no marks
against him.” Was that, we wonder, the principle
of selection in Wilson’s case ? If there were truth
in the insinuation, what a recreant to his duty
was Sir John in despatching as the superinten-
dent of the morals, as the magistrate, the guide,
philosopher, and friend of the inhabitants of the
secluded and rarely visited Lord Howe’s Island, a
man with marks against him! Sir John’s readiness
to associate as a colleague with certain men with
very black marks against them, everybody knows;
and there have been many who have defended
him on the ground that his moral pachyderma-
tousness advantaged the public interests, inas-
much as it enabled him to coalesce with anybody
at a moment’s notice ; but even those who most
applaud his political thickskinnedness will resent
his present attitude towards Captain Arm-
strong, since why should he be so infernally
savage to-day with the man for having, as
he alleges, outstretched his brief authority
if when he appointed him he knew there were
marks against him ? Sir John’s action to-day—
unless, indeed, the poor old political deadbeat’s
inconsistency has reached its climacteric—in reality
tells largely in Armstrong's favour. Who is the
bigger culprit on the Robertsonian hypothesis?
Is it not the politician who gave a marked man a
chance at the expense of the inhabitants of Lord
Howe’s Island? The Robertsonian yarn has all
the appearance of a mean innuendo, and we’re
uncommonly glad the Assembly disbelieved it. The
position taken up by the Government was most
undignified. M’Elhone put his thumb straight
on the Premier’s blunder, when, after the latter
deprecating going behind the action of the Select
Committee, he asked him : “ Why did you con-
demn Mr. Marsh ? The mgis of the Government
was thrown over Curator Moore, condemned by
a competent legal tribunal; but its countenance
was on no account to be turned towards a man
acquitted by a Parliamentary Select Committee
— and Armstrong, too, is a Scotchman. The
upshot of the whole affair is a complete
fimeo ; the Select Committee’s report over-
ridden ; the Robertsonian proposal to refer
the matter to a Royal Commission negatived;
Curator Moore exonerated from any imputa-
tion affecting his integrity: and regret expressed
that Captain Armstrong, holding the position
of Police Magistrate, should hive supplied liquor
to the inhabitants of Lor?. Howe’s Island. This
virtually leaves the real question untouched, since
if Captain Armstrong is only an unwise adminis-
trator, and not a rogue, Curator Moore— we 11 ,
least said soonest mended; or, to put the case in
another light, if Moore s integrity is unimpeach-
able, his charges of dishonesty against Arm-
strong are correct—and this the House distinctly
though indirectly denies. The Government should
either have accepted or opposed (without any
recourse to a side issue) Sir John Robertson’s
proposal. The carrying of Mr. Bibbs’ abortion of
an addition to the original resolution was not
merely an injustiee to an individual (whom the
public continue to regard as an ill-used man) but
an act of the grossest iniquity and most patent
inconsistency.
The Outraged Piddy.
We have been in gaol, and sympathise with others
who, Hike us, have suffered for conscience’ sake.
But although, in the cause of purity and righte-
ousness, we have dined under the Darlinghurst
clock, we strongly protest against our distinction
being used as a taunt-even by members of the
Colonial House of Lords. We are of the people,
belong to them, and have little in common with
certain honorable (for life) persons who, if they
dared, would lord it over us. These remarks we
I are induced to make because a representative of
the people—a member of the popular Govern-
ment—has been scandalously assailed in the Upper
House for having braved honourable incarceration
rather than submit to a great wrong. The other
night Mr. William K. Piddikgton, M.L.C. (mem-
ber for nowhere), availed himself of the position
his talents never fitted him to occupy, to use
language of a character calculated to destroy any
little respect still remaining in the popular mind for
the second branch of the Legislature. The hon.
gentleman raised a question of privilege, as he
had been informed that, a few nights before,
“some larrikin member of the Government” had
usurped the Holy of Holies - turned the Council
Chamber intc a lazar-house—by strewing its sacred
floor with smallpox and erysipelas bedding for the
use of their supporters in the Assembly on the
occasion of the late abortive stonewalling. It was
a scandal—an outrage,—and (said the hon. gentle
man) “Mr. President, if the report be true, calcu-
lated to bring this Chamber into contempt. He
believed the outrage had been committed by some
larrikin member of the Government fresh from
Darlinghurst Gaol 1” The President of t he Council
was ready—in fact, it appeared as if he had insti-
gated the Hon. Pid.— to raise the privilege if only
as a relief from the pent-up mental agony of the
preceding week. He read his solemn protest ad-
dressed to the Colonial Secretary, and Mr. Stu-
art’s rather jocose reply—a reply suffi-
ciently plain to have suggested to any but a
man oppressed with dignity that the “outrage”
was of too ridiculous a nature for serious con-
sideration, and that a gentleman of judgment (as
the Hon. John Hay ought to be) might have
passed over the unintentional slight which had
been committed. But the feelings of the Upper
Chamber wanted vent, and so the opportunity
was gladly seized by their “lordships ” to let the
public know how touchy they wero in the matter
of dignity. The leading offenders were Mr.
Alexander Campbell and Mr. Piddington.
They had been outraged, and required bel-lood.
The erysipelas and small-pox bedding, with its
wicked occupants— Taylor and M'Elhone, wo
believe, among the number—was too much for
their sensitive feelings, and in doleful agonies
they poured forth their sorrows. They have
suffered an indignity—not by the use to
which the Chamber was put, but by the
miserably weak exhibition they made of
themselves. Not even Mr. Dalley’s as-
sumed seriousness could soothe these old
children. The gravity of his satire seemed but to
feed the desire for revenge, until at last Messrs.
Piddington and Campbell sat down MARius-like
on the floor of their desecrated Cathedral. The views
and sentiments common to the public were
correctly expressed by Mr. Dalley when he said
that it would add greatly to his personal comfort,
and ho believe 1 to the satisfactory performance of
the business of that Chamber, if his hon. friend
Mr. Piddington would use that hall more
frequently as a dormitory. The Attorney-General’s
remarks on the coarseness of the attack made on
his colleague went straight to the spot.
To Our Readers.
The presnit number of The Bulletin is a holi-
day issue. So was the last. But there is this
difference : that the last was a holiday number for
the public, and involved all hands in this office
slaving fearfully, while the present issue is cur-
tailed so as to give a holiday to The Bulletin
people. Even a Bulletin editor, or printer, needs
two days’ spell in the year. Lots of things are omit-
ted or held over. We don’t apologise. Our sub-
scribers will, we are sure, be content that the staff
should have their Xmas. Next week we’ll
sparkle. We are always modest.
is given in Melbourne to'a'&w
words delivered by Mr. Summers at the Musical
Association’s meeting, a couple of weeks ago. Mr.
Summers is not an admirer of the way in which
Melbourne newspapers provide themselves with
musical criticisms. He thinks that professional
musicians do not make the best critics- As hap-
pens with most questions, the subject has sides,
and each side has something to be said in its
favour. There are professional musicians who
are also musical critics, and are in both capacities
good, and it is not necessary to cite Schumann or
Berlioz in proof of what is si nply a truism. But
Mr. Summers thinks that in a small place like
Melbourne, where the professional musicians are
mosily teachers, they will be often called upon, if
newspaper critics, to pronounce upon the effects
of their own teaching, or, what is probably more
questionable still, upon the teaching of rivals. In
this sense understood, Mr. Summers is on ground
which cannot be cut away. But, months ago, we
drew attention to another matter which moves on
the line of Mr. Summers’ view. We pointed to
some musical critique! that were surfeited with
technicalities. The writers did not try so much
to discover melody or harmony as the application
the composer made cf the mechanism of his art.
Of course it may be said that the latter in-
cludes the former, and there is no doubt that it
sometimes does. But it is a mistake to suppose
that it does so by native right. A minor poet
may construct a heroic measure with a most loyal
regard to the position of his anapcests, and still
his work may not be a poem. On the other hand,
we may, and prosodial critics do, till pages with
the mistakes made by JUschylus and Euripides
in their location of these very syllables. The
general professional musician, then, bears, we
think, the same relation to oratorio or opera that
the lecturer on Prosody beats to the Epic Poem.
We all know how faultless is the construction
of the University Prize Poem, and how
little poetry is in it; and something of a
similar reflection is started when we see a musical
performance, whose first night threw the critics
into raptures, falling flat before the week is over.
We say this in support of the main drift of Mr
Summers' conclusion. But it must not be for-
gotten that professional musicians are not all
alike—not even in Melbourne—and that some of
them are capable of responding to more than
mere technique. If the Melbourne newspapers
have not possession of these, it is possibly because
the entity, yclept the editor-man, knows nothing
about music, and thinks, as in religion, that if the
column bristles with catechism terms, he’s going
to the ’tarnal bottom of the whole dtrned
concern,”
It brings on a strong attack of self-glorifying
palpitation to be made acquainted with the pro-
ceedings of the Board for the Protection of Abori-
gines in Victoria. We feel assured of the instinc-
tive generosity of the Caucasian, as we see that
even the poor waifs and strays of the black-
skinned race are taken under the shelter of his
powerful arm, are trained to civilised industries,
and have the meagre outcome of their left-handed
attempts at self-support supplemented by a grant
from the Crown. They are not left to starve, or
without clothes, or without a house. At Coran-
derrk, where a visit of inspection was made a week
ago, there are 120 of these people, and on other
stations throughout the sympathetic colony there
are about 440 in progress to the higher levels of
civilisation. It is estimated that there are 300
others who refuse to take on the harness of the
loftier life, but who, when in dire straits they call
at the station, are not dei ied a little fo d or
blanket to cover them. All this speaks well for
cur magnanimity and Christian feeling, and Vic-
torians are right in looking proudh into the eyes
of the world and saying they are doing the hand-
some thing' by these outcasts. But, stay. It trans-
pires that at Coranderrk “ the proportion of full-
blooded blacks among the inhabitants is very small,
a large number being of very light complexion,
and showing little or no trace of black blood. On«
young girl in particular had Ught blue ey«s, long
wavy hair, and away from the station would
never have been suspected for hay ing dark blood.’’
There is no reason for judging that at the other
stations this item is much different. Does thus
seem to arrest the self-glo* i r ying palpitation ? Is
it the unfortunate black race tha> the people of
Victoria are helping ? Victorians say it is, and
therefore extract capital to star it before the
un> verse «s generous humanitarians. But is it not
rather their own illegitimate children they are
helping, and is> not that help imperative by law
since Queen Elizabeth's time, and not at all
dependent upon kindness or generosity ? Victoria
must support her '>wn Victorian blood, and when
she stares at heaven and puts it on as helping the
l*oor black race, heaven and Queen Elizabeth
must both laugh hcarti’j.
In a city of shop-keepers the shop-keeping interest
is all-powerful. It is so in Sydney. The worst of
these powerful combinations is that they show no
mercy to those who are not in the swim. They
look on them ao the regular practitioner on the
quack, the regular soldier on the militiaman, the
veteran on the conscript. The professional man
turns his nose up at the tradesman, the tradesman
at the artisan, the latter at the hodman, and the
last at the general cussedness of creation. The
latest example of this tendency “to iiye” but not
to “let live" is furnished by the shop-keeping
fruit sellers. For years certain peripatetic fruit
vendor?—known familiarly as “ costers”—trundled
their barrows through the Sydney streets, supply-
ing those who had to look twice at sixpence before
spending it with fruit at one-half —sometimes at
one-third-the price for which it could be obtained
in the shop?. They were mostly elderly men, and
in many cases suffered from physical ailments in-
capacitating them for hard work. But the pro-
sperous tradesmen, with showy shops and
municipal interest, viewing with envy the
roaring trede done by the “costers," ob-
tai ed a decree of banishment against them.
One scratch of the Corporation pen, and
dozens of industrious men are thrown on the
hospitals, the asylums, and the street, the public
pay one or two hundred per cent, extra for their
apples an* orang?s, and the fruiterers grow inso-
lent. But it is not the fruiterers alone who grow
rich by monopoly in this Sydney of ours. An
early workman or a late wanderer in the streets
of Melbourne can procure for a trifle a goo* square
meal at a street-comer coffee stall. The other
day the ke«per of a Melbourne coffee-stall swore
in court that he made £1000 a year out of his
busmess. Sydney is too respectable to tolerate
open-air catering. It would interfere with some
othe? monopoly. So, in order that “ Bung” may
prosper, the public convenience is disregarded,
and numbers are shut out from earning a living at
callings ««legitimate as vending cheese, and far
more innocuous than handingbad drink to frowsy
loafers. Yes, a good raanv respectable funerals
will have to take place before the Sydney workman
is as well looked after as his confreres in other
places.


The “ bear ” broker overborne and broke
Hallelujah I
The Queanbevan Gale is death on the
squattah In a recent issue it attributed the pol-
lution of the local river to the noxious secretions
and accumulations “iu the wool” of our llock-
masters. If this bo a true bill, the remedy is the
compulsory shampooing of the Queanbeyan dis-
trict pastoralists.
At the change of life, nothing equals Hop-
Bitters to allay all troubles incident thereto. Se».
: “ The battle-field of the Cernia at the
Crimea.” Why not “ of tho Tchernaya,” dear
Granny ?
Wells “Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses
Moss & Co.. Sydney. General Agents.
A Beautiful Painting.—-Mr. G. G. Green,
of Woodbury, New Jersey. TJ.S.A., is presenting
to druggists and others in this country some very
fine pictures in oil of his magnificent house and
grounds and laboratory at that place. Mr. Green
is the proprietor of Boschee’s German Syrup and
Green’s August Flower, two very valuable medi-
cines, which are meeting with great favour, tho
first as a remedv for Pulmonary complaints, and
the latter for Dyspepsia and disorders of the Liver i
These preparations have attained an immense sale
solely on their superior merits and are sold by all
druggists throughout the world. The price is the
same for each. 3s. 6d. per bottle, or sample bottles
for 0d. The sample bottles enable sufferers to
prove their value at a trifling cost.*
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Incubator”: Re eggs and their freshness, 'tis
not so important that one should have authorita-
tive information from ibe storekeeper as to when
they came in—as to when they came out “ Ex-
Crusher” ; Too lively for us “ D. J.” (Woollahra):
We don’t think we have “Nut a Swindler”
(Manly): Were we to give the facts, the impudent
person in question, who deserves shewing up,
would probablv be able to make his fortune in
King-street. Which reminds us of the fact that,
if ever he does make his fortune, it will probably
be in King-street ..“M.W.F.”: No; the reason is
that all the parsons are leaving the pulpit, and
taking to the press. It's quite a pity the poor
newspaper man doesn’t return the compliment.
That would, at any rate, make the sermons lively.
Besides—and now wo speak feelingly'—it would
give the down-trodden journalist a chance to
ppear occasionally with his boot-heels level
N. : Softy, In Miss Braidon’s “Aurora Floyd,”
Vraa the originator of the sa ying usually attributed
to the Claimant—“ Them as has money and no
brains was made for t.ieio. as has brains and no
money.” “Penola”: The couplet runs thus:—
“ Q od gave the gen’rous grape to us to cheer both
great and small:
But little fools will drink toomuch, and great ones
not at all.”
“Major”: (1) Declined. (2) Yeur rtylo is as mono-
tonous as are those consta ot addresses of Mr.
Combes. Tovjours perdrix is bad enough, but
it s still worse when it isn’t pardrix “ W.G.M.”:
No; from the Evening News*, clipping you’d ima-
glnc that only one person had ever lived miuvs a
kidney. Removal of the kidney is now a well-
recognised surgical operation in oases of local
malignant disease “R.J.B.”: The publication
in question does not live. 1 c doesn’t even vege-
tate. They go to its tomb weekly, take .ts
skeleton out of the coffi n, and trot it
round town. Then they put it back in
the vault again for another week “Ver-
juice : No; but in Victoria “A.D.C.” used
upon a time to signify “ A Dlt.honored Cheque.”
• • • • J.C.” (Narrabri) : Good story. Thanks
Constant Reader” (Yass> : The price of
the S.M. Herald has not been lowered ; nor, so
far as we are aware. Is it likefy to be....“Blue
Ribbon”: Under the existing licensing law ’tis
enacted that a publican can receive payment only
in cash, cheque, or pro. note. This pro.-note line
is playing the devil with the “working man.” No
fellow, indeed, is safe if Boniface can recover on
a p.n. taken from him on, or after, a big “ spree ”..
”Thistlcpod”: Your lines on “The Heart of
Summer ” are not bad. But when you tackle the
anatomy of the seasons why not serve nil alike ?
For instance, now “the Varicose Veins of
Autumn, the “Pelvis of Winter,” and “the
Thorax of Spring” have unequal claim on our
regard with either the heart, stomach, ears, or any
other portion of the Summer that you choose to
mention — “J.L.W.”; Declined with thank
“Saltpetre: Declined “A.C.” (Cooktown) :
Will try and work it in “M.W.O.”: You should
just see this advertising ruffian who wants to
screw £20 out of you for curing you of a disease
which 500 to I you haven’t got. Be was, until four
years ago, an undertaker s assistant, and in that
capacity used to filch from the mouths of the dead
gold teeth-raountings, which he sold to jewellers
to make weddings rings with. Now he dx-ives a ear-
riago, weai*3 frilled shirts and diamond rings,
carries 640 acres of mud under his filthy finger-
nails, and talks not in Queen’s English but in the
lingo of Woolloomooloo. Come to town (with a
gun) and look him up “Nardoo’’: The man is
an advertising quack- a most unprincipled scoun-
drel who lived for years on the proceeds of legally
unproveable villainies. He knows as much about
medicine as a pig about classics, and would cut
your throat for a fiver. However, consult him if
you please. When certain things occur, we’ll print
a list of Sydney and Melbourne quacks, under a
skull-and-eross-bonesheading...“J.T Thanks...
“G. W. Simpson”: Too long. Your remarks re
Mr. Greer’s testimonial, recall Buckle’s observa-
tion that for doing the devil’s work there’s no
machinery so serviceable as men of good inten-
tions... “A Citizen”: We quite agree with you
that the rule is an absurd one which provides that
a ratepayer’s vote shall be taken in the ward to
which he belongs. For instance, when our es-
teemed friend, the editor of that luminous journal,
the Helleire Howe, attempts to record his vote
at the Protestant Had, he is liable to be asked what
ward he is in, and as at least half a mile of his feet
must, in any case, be divided between two
wards, his vote may be objected to, and re-
garded by the courts as illegal. The only way we
can see out of the difficulty is to ask the Medical
Society to make false joints at his insteps, and thus
enable him to turn his toes up towards
Heaven, and keep them out of the ward
adjoining for which he has no vote
“ Windlass ”: If you go, you should look at the
Normanby reefs, which seem to offer fair Induce-
ment to a capitalist—we mean an experienced
capitalist —"Alastor”: The ropiest stanza con-
cocted this century. We can. Here it is:—
“ The forests wave in majesty
Where once the fresh wounds of the vale
Were open to the wondering- eye
Of those whose little tale
Was beintr told upon the earth
In prediluvian centuries.
Ere the new race of men had birth,
Before our Genesis.”
It is, perhaps, superfluous to mention that these
lines are Douglas W. B.'s latest. By the b*e, why
doesn't he cut Ms little tale ? “A Sinful Young
Man”: If you have any money left, you should
buy a shilling portrait o? “ Vice-President Mr. Ar-
dili, the founder of the Blue-ribbon movement,
N.S.W.” Say your prayers nightly, and gaze
on Ardill’s “mug” before you go to your
little four-poster. This will ensure your dying
hanpily, and never getting the nightmare
“ Castlereagh ”: We don’t see why any newspaper
should champion the cause of a person who, if the
depositions in her case are to be believed, objects
to honest work and lives at the expense of her
reputation “E.W.H.”: The Citizen hasn’t
reached us yet —“A Native of Gosford”: You
MrK a lover of nature, old man, but, so far, you
have only succeeded in showinur us that you are a
“mute, inglorious Milton.” Read the works of
other men for a few years. Try and write by and
bye. Unlike many aspirants for poetic fame, you
have ideas; and ideas, rather than words, are the
first essentials of poetry “Trangie”: Your lines
are utterly unprintable. How can you expect us
to pray that the New Year may bring forth to
selector and squatter alike “ un ceaseless Blessing ?”
— We have read your letter carefully,
and may indirectly use it. We consider it a crying
disgrace that the N.S.W. Government should com-
mit persons with deranged minds to so-called
asylums presided over by unqualified prac-
titioners. Not less disgraceful is the conduct of
the daily papers, which credit undiploraaed men
with the possession of qualifications that they
do not hold and could never acquire... .
“P. Heagney”: The Indian water-lily belongs to
the natural order Nymptue. Seeds should be sown
in broad shallow pans, and plants transplanted to
sides of pond or tank. The plants quickly spread,
sending out long tendri's, from which broad
beautiful leave® and great blue, pin*, and white
lillies proceed, until the whole surface of the
tank gets covered. The tank should be surrounded
with a fence, and a watering place for cattle railed
off, or the cattle might eat the plants. Mr. Inglls
says he could procure seeds from the Indian
Ciovernment “ J.C.F.": Ihe timing is so loose
in Australia, no authenticated record can be given,
rrank Hewitt is credited with 9J4 seconds, but it
is improbable heever broke “evens.”.. “W.O.B.”:
the sporting lyrics you speak of originally ap-
peared m the Horse-trauasian....“ John W. 8.”:
It you swim in “our beautiful harbour,” and don’t
want to be sharked to death, wear wrought-iron
P3’jamas —'Jhanks; but don’t know
who you are.
We do not undertake to return rejected,
communications. Writers should keep copies.
The Rabbit Question.


READER I Did you ever rob a Priest? or a
Church ? or a Blind Man ? If not, you are
untit to keep a music shop in Sydney ! Send for
my Price List, and you will see how you are fleeced
to pay for heavy rents. I have the largest and
cheapest stock of Pteel Anglos in Australia: extra
loud, ana guaranteed to last two years. Repairs
reasonable; and fit, finish, and durability distancing
all compeers. Look into any instrument in Sydney
and you will find it is botched with a bit of old
oaadlestick, reduced with a rasp—and then com-
pare it with my work, and laugh I
J. STANLEY,
Concertina Doctor,
Bathurst.
CONTRIBUTOR to all the leading Journals
magaalnei of Australia, supplies erigi-
Md loaders, Msays, sketches, *«.. and newsletters.
Communications may be addressed to "Marco,”
of Iwllitik oflfoe, Sydney.
TATTERSALL’S CIJP,
NEW YEAR’S DAT, 1884.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
1 1NOOURAGRD by past successes, I beg to
-Tu announce that I intend haring a
SERIES OP CONSULTATIONS
on the above.
No. 1 is now open, and will cioee at the earliest
possible date.
I must request immediate application, so that
fortunate holders may have a good opportunity
Of hedging.
Distribution as follows
First Horse £1000
Second Horse mn
Third Horse 300
Starters (divided among) .. .. JO0
Non-Starters (divided among).. .. 200
£2000
Address—
“JANITOR.”
Care of E. E. Jones,
International Hotel, Sydney.
OE
s
biriiHiiarirJHiHlia
o** of thl* valuable mouth wash insure*
entire freedom from toothache and deoar of the
vii X? ,Gro are thl «o kinds, distinguished by a
X® 1^H^4, Qre *i “ d SUfr Thread attached to
the bottle*. That with tbs fellow *top* instantly
the mon Violent Toothache. That with the Green
1* Invaluable to person* who suffer periodically
from toothache, *ensltiveneas of the teeth and
rum*,decay and offensive breath, (or by usinr a few
orop* In a little water to rinse the month dally,
25M? 1 ."? °5 ly nev ? r ,uM er ®ff aia ’ but will pre-
hound and white to the end. That
witn the ixed is for children’* use.
May he obtained of all Medicine Vendor*.
Te pitortlapotrtst fraudulent imitations,
** «ocl» Label bean the name, “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 OxfercLtbreet, London."
DE
all
Immediate relief In
the worst attack of Arthma, Courh, Bronohiti*
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at nirhi
E™ ( M lla £i P Me «™* short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly oheok the
K° 4 V ie * P ’ the patiemttopus
a flrooa night. Are perfectly harmless, and mar he
pTtieoi 7 ladl “*’ Chlldr " 1 ’ and most drilLte
May he obtained of all Medicine Vendor*.
(Waimt fraudulent imitation*,
ff* the name of “ Wile ox and
Oo.. 888 Oxford-etreet, London.”
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayek s Cathartic Piles act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the- diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
Substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headsche writes:
“ Ayek’s Pills are invaluable to me. and
are my constant companion. I have been
S r e I V 0 ere sut^ erer from Headache, and your
for r«w® n e °. n y th . i ,?« 1 °° uld look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
?ver found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
When occasion offers. J
ii- P £ GE « of w - L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond, Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayek’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
and reliaWe family medicine.
rOK DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882*?’ T * HAi ES ‘
?,f V ', FH^ NCIS B - Hai *lowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says; "“For some year!
past I have been subject to constipation,
fiom which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy,
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
— - Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use. 8
Sold by all Druggists; $1, six bottles for SB.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG k CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
vr x'HB PREMIER WHISKEY IB
THOM AND CAMERON'S
Old. Hv£©,tvLred.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sol© Agents for N.8.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRIS
and GBN^
and SCOTCH WHISKIES
MSB,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON k
IS UN
*8 DUBLIN WHISKEY?
It la bottled in bond for Bxv rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. ref ore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ htakey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get ft, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, oork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Bole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
HP 308 GEORGE STREET.
CfS
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
celebrated
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
‘ MANUFACTURER OF THB CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S 0OFFBK.
Aficn o£For.2 irOuCTACK and WHIZZES, tyor.:
Boyd’s Beard P.lixirdid this, and
%c\U do it on either ba’d hei d or
hare fare, forces heavy Mens
twite %,i f n>m 2 to 4 week* and never .
fads, 2 pA>0 young men almuoy
wear full beards, haviyig used I to
3 . ,, ' n J ur V, f »•’ J ap t u, d, ecrcuui in effect,
each. 3 for .s.yi post j> », «. ..t ruder cover, free fro.* observation .
i^oaresB^_ru..jiJruu- > . ,jte Agent,Box 7oO, O F.O., i 'jdney ,N.S^
Copyrighted.
Copyrighted.
Packets 1«. &2.
is not the dearies*
or condition alone In BULL-DOG ALE
inai preserve* thi* brand first in public
estunauon. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
“me mellow vinous cha* actor, the fullness on
£ reat tee P in K' qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against trader* who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
Newcastle Agents; WOOD
& CO., Agents.
BROTHERS A CO.
AUWE!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST and Most EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 bands are now employed by Messrs.
SUIHIHBRFIBLB & Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO. WAQGA, and 61 & 53
LEADEN HAL L-SThisET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr - Cutter" CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Mr nTni k ° ST ’ Thlrty Tears ’ Sydney ex Pe-
Mr 'London° BYN ’ ° f Poole ’ 8 > Saville Row,
Mr "Bristol 0NKIN ’ of Tuuhln, Sons and Co.,
A field an^^kf BY ’ Klsrbt Years with Summer-
Mr. CHARLES TAUT 2 , of Tautz and Co..
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
r RICE, best known Cutter in
w. ~
Mr
• SHAW.
THE PEOPLE’-, TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
■ v. "T c ir ictly WOOFRA T£
MARSHALL BROTHtRS
Sm<iiov*0?t. ■ = * io6iviAR}5ii st c.
ALL DENTAL PERFORMED
Teeth Stopped, and Exttraeted Painlessly
ZOEuuriE,
Invigorating.
The “ a
ZOEDONE
Ifl recommended by th# FsouJty Mg mihafifiifA
wtoo. beer. •»« »««.- *M«SKSSSl
intoxicating effect. In cats of
to D the V 1ystem. ant ’ but “ a Permanent fonic
Pnot per oase containing 6 dozen U pints ... 12/6
" « ” * •> 1 „ ..84/
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 PRt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS. X
OILS.
-cr
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 Gaorge-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
W 1 N.B. Patterns and Pnoas iiat
lo Mm
PATEN*
• » |i)ihf|k
WMm
STEAM & HYDRAULIC GAUGES,
Engine and Boiler Fittings.
SCHAFFER & BUDENBERG,
of Magdeburg and Manchester,
~H AVR appoint€d the undersigned as their SOLE AGENTS for the
Australian Colonies. Orders for Steam, Vacuum, and Hydraulic
Gauges, Thalpotaslmeters, and all classes of Engine and Boiler Fittings
are solicited. ’
SCHAFFER and BUDENBERG carried off the
CHIEF AWARDS and MEDALS at the SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and
ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
S CO., Oils Agents, 007 Esngi SM,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
! DstUi of
All the Stationers in Sydney have declared War. Against WHO ? Why,
ROYAL ARCADE,
4=0G O-eorg'e Street,
For out-doing them in QUALITY, VARIETY, and CHEAPNESS, in
CHRISTMAECARD|es wrTtFng desks DS cards
LADIES AND GBNT.’S BOOkS^'S'AuaLS,.
.. PHOTO ALBUMS. Photo Albums, best aad largest and ckeanMt ■ —m in . . r
Thousands of volumes (suitable for Christmas presentations), Churck in
Which he is now selling at less than English and Foreignprices cSl\ *•<>*».
CHRISTMAS AND NlW YEAR CARDS, AND k ArCad * taUce f01
H.R. SPECIAL REDUCTION ON ALL GOODS TOR ONI MONTM.ONLY
aSam
w
i- ■
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers off Americai
j Loaf in tha colonies, hence the FI RS"
position for quality is assigned to their Twta
and Flat Tobaooos— Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Rorer (third
twist), R. C. Ruhy, Oriental Mixture, and others 1
I
CIGARETTES.—Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
importer! ol Pipe! of ersry kind, Cigars, aad all Tobaocoalato* Fancy Good, Suad
pf prime—i i itna.'l, muse, ——-


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Few first-class men get the offer of a
peerage— fewer still accept. Shak«peare, Milton,
Gibbon, Mill, Spen -er, Buckle, Dickens,—where
will the list stop?—were content, but the author of
“ Maud,” “ Harold,” and “ Mary” would have his
rattle. Eheu!
The mouths of a good many actresses will
water at the thought of the nice, practical pr sent
which Nellie Farren recently got Mr. Barclay,
the owner of the Cambridgeshire winner, putting
her a cool “ live hundred to nothing ” on his
horse. Diamonds are very pretty, but it takes a
good many of them to realise “ a monkey ” in
pawn—the ultimate destination of most theatrical
jewels.
G. J. Bonnor— the infant cricketer—writes
to the Age that on one occasion only he played
cards with Verdi, but that he never owed him a
penny. Why he didn’t try his luck with paste-
board the second lime is probably for the same
reason that the lightning never strikes twice in
the same place—’cause it doesn’t want to. He
appears to entertain a great regard for the
“ Signor,” and thinks him an accomplished gentle-
man in many ways.
Kate Vaughan is not the only artist who
has secured a splendid engagement for the forth-
coming pantomime season at home ; for Fanny
Leslie, it is reported, will receive £70 a week at the
Prince’s, Manchester, and certain it is that the
vivacious little Jewess will work harder for her
money than will Kate Vaugha i, at Drury Lane.
Fanny Leslie is the wife of Walter Gooch, the
erstwhile lessee of the Princess’s Theatre, under
whose management “Drink” was originally pro-
duced.
We regret somehow that Forbes wasn’t
with the Egyptian army in the Soudan. “ False
Prophets 1 have met.” Ah, what a good thing
we’ve missed. Booh 1
SIGNOR BILLGREENO.
What’s in a name ? A precious lot, I ween I
Were you (witi flute-like voice) called William
Green,
No tenners would your dulcet notes have gotten,
perdi;
While crowds would flock to Guglielmo Verdi.
“General” Booth’s son’s wife has a baby,
and the dear little infant has been “ dedicated ” to
the Salvation Army by his knowing old grand-
father. This is, we believe, the first volume that
Mr. and Mrs. Booth, junr , have dedicated ; and, as
it was a little girl, it seems somewhat strange that
the General, at the ceremony at Exeter Hall,
should have desired the young mamma to declare
that baby should abjure tobacco and strong drink.
The noble warrior apparently was not let into the
family secret of the baby’s sex, or else—but perish
the thought!—some of the “ lasses” smoke.
An A.D.C. insult a non-commissioned offi-
cer I The ideah is simplwy pwepostewous! And
yet ’tis bn rely possible that the non-commissioned
officer—perhaps even the private—may possess
some feelings, some sense of self-respect, some
bit of his coarse clay sufficiently sensitive to buck
at an insulting word from an Abednego in a cocked
hat. We can remember how Clyde (erst Sir Colin
Campbell, once treated a staff dandy who, without
a grain of Provocation, had called a young ser-
geant of 1 usiliers a “ damned hound.” “ You
must apologise to him in my presence,” said Sir
Colin, “and send in your papers, or The
papers were sent in.
The dear Duchess of Montrose is being
made very unhappy by the action of her late
husband’s brother, who is seeking to prove that
the deceased gentleman was too paralytic to have
signed certain “ codicils” in his wife’s favour, and,
therefore, that his poor old hand must have been
guided by some other party. However, we don’t
think quite so badly of the “ Merry Duchess” as to
believe that there is any foundation for the
“ pursuer’s” claim, nor is there much likelihood
of the will being disturbed. By the way, the
rumour that the Duchess’s favourite jockey,
Wood, is coming to pay Australia a visit makes it
look as though the little man is afraid that the
buxom lady might attempt to marry him next, and
is fleeing from such a fearful fate.
Bill Porton, who died in October last in
Wolverhampton workhouse, where he had been
en pension tor twenty years, was born at sea off
“ Gib ” in 1783, aboard the Saturn, 74 He served
under Nelson at Trafalgar, on the Victory, and, as
we have said, died in the poorhouse. Had some
live entrepreneur run old Bill in these colonies
during the score of years he was consuming the
Staffordshire skilly, we daresay he (the entrepre-
neur) would have raked in some coin. Bill’s lot,
under the circumstances, would possibly nave been
the better by more freedom and less skilly. For
Britannia, who boasts to rule the waves, to allow
the last relic of Trafalgar to die in a workhouse is
quite a uniquely grotesque reflection upon her
favourite line about Britons nevah-nevah-nevah
being slaves.
His Majesty the Emperor of China was re-
cently pleased, as we learn from the N. China
Mail, to deprive the Judge of Chekiang of his
office, and degrade him three steps of commuta-
tive rank as punishment for his stupidity. When
the imperial decree was read to him, the Judge
fully justified the righteousness of the sentence
by “preparing an incense table, before which he
prostrated himself with grateful teats, thanking
His Majesty for his graciousness and generosity.”
What a terrible thing it would be for not a few of
the public functionaries of N.S.W. were degrada-
tion to invariably follow proved stupidity! What
a touching spectacle would be a sacked Supreme
Court Judge—sacked for stupidity—prostrate be
fore an incense table, owning with tears, mingled
with snorts, how richly he deserved his degrada-
tion.
The late election of Mr. Fowler as Lord
Mayor of London over the head of Mr. Hadley has
rendered inevitable the reform of the corporation.
Hadley was senior, and had an immense majority
of the liverymen. But majority, precedent, and
fair dealing were nothing when a slight had to be
put on a political opponent So when the names
of the Liberal Hadley and the Tory Fowler were
submitted (just for form’s sake) to the “Jingo”
Court of Aldermen, the latter was chosen as Lon-
don’s first magistrate. The howl that went up
from tnose throe thousand euchred liverymen,
when the decision was made known, could be
heard in Timbuctoo. A resolution denouncing
theohoice was carried at once, and those aldermen
who were supposed to have plumped for Fowler
were received like an Irish agent when he brings
a battery of artillery round with him to help him
to collect the rent.
The new Governor-General of Canada,
Lord Lansdowne, landed at Quebec, and “ my
lady” formed, doubtless, an opinion of Canadian
towns that subsequent visits to Montreal, Ottawa,
and Toronto must have agreeably changed—for
Quebec, surely, is oae of the dirtiest and most
dilapidated places under British rule Five-sixths
of the population are French; and a more striking
proof of the superior dash and enterprise of one
people over another could hardly be furnished
than by a comparison of Quebec, albeit the oldest,
with the more English towns of the Dominion;
Toronto, in which the French element is smallest
and the Jesuits hold no sway, being the most go-
ahead of them all. But so long as Governors-
General have to return thanks to the Corporation
in English and French, in order to make them-
selves intelligible, it is idle to think of Quebec
keeping pace with the younger towns.
The Princess of Wales recently displayed a
little piece of tact which stamps her as a clever
woman. Not altogether Knorant, possibly, of the
gossip concerning her amiable husband's weakness
for fair Americaines, she has done her best to
‘chouse” scandal-mongers of any delicate mor-
sels anent Mary Anderson, by presenting “the
most beautiful woman in the world” with her
own royal bouquet, at the conclusion of the per-
formance of “Ingomar,” with which H.R.H. ex-
pressed herself ns extremely delighted. The idea
of any lady (more especially a “Swell,” wnose
taste in theatricals requires just a little tickling)
expressing herself as “ extremely delighted ” with
such an antiquated sleeping-draught as “ Ingomar’ ’
is particularly funny; and the Prince of Wales’
face must have been a study, the while his wife
was indulging in such a tarradiddle. However,
“ beautiful Mary ” accepted the compliment in
good faith, we trust.
With a great fanfaronade we were in-
formed by the Syoney D.T. (whose par. we now
see copied in a lot of the Victorian papers) that
the Honorable Graham Berry was enter-
tained in Sydney on a recent evening by
by Messrs. W. Richardson and R. C. Luscombe.
What a falling off is here! The erstwhile leader
of Victorian democracy to be entertained by a
Demain-spouter and the only Luscombe! As both
these gentlemen are rigid abstainers, it is hard to
see how poor Graham could have been “enter-
tained” on gingerbeer, bread and butter, with a
wind-up in lemon-squash. G.B.’s idea of enter-
tainment was alleged, some years ago, in the Vic-
torian Assembly, to really partake of that of the
Arab’s, whose Elysium is filled with dark-eyed
houris, and poor Lussy would never have ventured
to have introduced anything of that kind into his
calm and classic retreat in Nithsdale. How G raham
Berry, the one time guest of English Cabinet
Ministers, must have enjoyed the Arcadian sim-
plicity of this meal—and his entertainers! Since
that eventful evening, neither Richardson nor
Lussy will allow any person to take the hand that
shook the paw of “ the greatest statesman in Aus-
tralia, sir.”
Russia is negotiating for a fresh loan, and
the Emperor of that freedom-loving land has just
ordered a new winter cloak at a cosi of £8600. It
is said to be of sable fur, trimmed with gold, en-
riched with precious stones, and but no wonder
“Russia” wants a fresh loan. Let our bard
speak
THH RUSSIAN LOAN.
The Emperor of Russia is subject to cold,
And, therefore, a cloak has been ordered:
’Tis made of rich sable, and (as we are told)
With gold and bright jewels is bordered;
The fame of this garment through Europe re-
sounds.
But (though we’re not wishing to croak)
We think that eight thousand and six hundred
pounds
Is too much to pay for a cloak.
For Russia, just now, is requiring a loan
(It isn’t the first, by a many);
She hasn’t much money, it seems, of her own
(Why, some say she hasn’t got any).
So, really, the Emperor should keep within bounds,
Or Russia will shortly “go broke ” —
A sum like eight thousand and six hundred pounds
Is too much to pay for a cloak.
With reference to various paragraphs
which have of late appeared in the press, Mr. W.
J. O'Donnell, on Wednseday, called at The
Bulletin office to explain that he, and not Mr.
Carr-Boyd, was the leader of the recent West
Australian exploring party—which was under his
exclusive cornir and. Mr. O’Donnell further states
that the Cooktown Coueieb people inform him
that Mr. Carr-Boyd is their authority for the alle-
gation that the party were on one occasion lost in
the hush, and had much difficulty in picking up
their way—which allegation is, be tells us, utterly
and who.ly incorrect. Apropos, Mr. O’Donnell tells
us that in the course of his long journey,
he mot several numerous tribes of blacks,
who were neither hostile nor friendly, buk who
invariably manifested the greatest terror when
approached. The men ran away into the rivers,
and the women, when unable to escape by other
means, climbed the trees. This was due, it is
surmised, to the effects of the use of the snider
in the outskirts of that region. On one occasion,
however, Mr. O Donnell reunded up a couple of
f ins, ran thr m down, and presented them with a
ew handkerchiefs, a small looking-glass, and
some fish-hooks, the use of which they ap-
peared to have learned—possibly from Malays
who had landed on the coast. The women went
away laughing, and very soon, what looked like
the whole of the tribe, mustered round the camp
•f the explorers.
Our intention is to make this paragraph
tenderly pathetic. It may be that we cannot.
There has been a great drain on our pathos,
bottled and bulk, during the last months, and our
next shipment Is not due until the New Year. If
the working men of Victoria and their patrons,
and the unfortunate radical leaders who want to
sit just between the two stools, keep up the de-
mand, as they have been doing of late, we’ll have
to enlarge our premises and negotiate supplemen-
tary indents. But at present we’ll do our best to
supply this little customer. It is Duncan Gillies
knocks. A few days ago the Minister for Rail ways
and Cameron, and a buggy and four horses, and
two other gentlemen, as the wire put it, all went
out to inspect the country in the Eltham shire.
Nine miles beyond Queenstown three horses were
inspecting the road, Cameron was Inspecting the
reins, Duncan was in front inspecting the fourth
horse, the fourth horse was intently inspecting
Duncan, and the other two gentlemen were in-
specting the liquor in the pub., when lo ! that
fourth horse made a plunge and a kick, and drove
the pole of the buggy into Duncan’s mouth!
Luckily, it was after luncheon, or buggy might
hare followed i ole, aud all have gone down
together. As it was, the Minister was more
frightened than damaged. Ha, w-e have had just
enough pathos for the occasion. Now, if that pole
had struck Duncun in the stomach, we should
have bad to put up the shutters,
It was notified, a few days ago, to Superin-
tendent Green, of Melbourne, that although sum-
mer was vulgarly supposed to be settling down on
the capital, yet, in the opinion of the Medical
Board, Autumn had really begun in the region of
the Superintendent, and that the most consider-
ate and seemly thing he could do was to forthwith
take himself away on the night of the 13th inst.,
and spend the remnant of his diys praying for his
soul. Inotherwords Yes, we must give a turn to
other words, for although we like to touch a
point delicately, and just to hint with, as it were,
an elevation of the tip of the little finger of a kid-
glove whither we’re trotting, we ha' r e to bear in
mind that all readers are not sensitively poetical,
like Hugh M‘Coll and Dan O’Connor, and if we
are to impress them at all, we must hit them in the
ear with a bang. Injother words, then, the Medi-
cal Board, comprising Drs. Youl and Embliug,
have reported that Superintendent Green, of the
Victorian police, must be superannuated. The
Superintendent demurs, maintains he was never
so efficient as now, has his breast pocket full of
independent medical certificates to that effect,
and goes about protesting that he doesn’t shew a
single sere and yellow leaf. He is ready to
make affidavits that he is all green, as green as
ever he was. But the Board won’t nave it.
And so, exit Superintendent Green.
Mahomed Ismael Khan was an Afghan.
Two years ago he went to England with £1500 to
study medicine. He became a member of the
Royal College of Surgeons, and a licentiate of the
Reyal College of Physicians. Then he tried for an
appointment in England, but his name and colour
were too much against him, and he at last found
himself in the employment of a notorious quack,
measuring out harmless compounds from coloured
bottles, and giving death-certificates for patients
he had never seen. His hopes destroyed, a bottle
of prussic acid performed the same office for his
body, it is this sad story that the Whitehall
Review uses to point a moral. The moral is a
political one pervaded by a fierce Tory sentiment.
Of course, it is a mere party-missile aimed against
the “ Ilbert Bill a measure extending to Hindoo
magistrates the right to adjudicate in cases where
Europeans are concerned. “Similar disappoint-
ments,” says the Whitehall, “ will always over-
take Orientals directly they are encouraged to place
themselves on an equality with European races.
The non-existence of any such equalitv is a fact of
nature, which cannot by any sophistry be set
aside ; and we look with alarm as the multiplica-
tion of such cases as that of Ismael Khan, for it
will be a fruitful source of jealousy and heart-
burning among the native peoples whose destiny
we have been ealled upon to direct.” We have
been called up >n to direct I We believe that the
time is not yet for England to evacuate India—but
it is on the road. But, while granting that at
present such an evacuation would be inexpedient
for England as possibly disastrous for India, we
protest against the grotesque Pecksniffianism of
that “ called upon to direct.”
Johnny Hall is dead. Not Jessie Gray’s
Johnny Hall, but the Johnny Hall who used to
lead in the old days of Lyster’s opera, and who has,
for so long, acted as conductor at the T.R., Ade-
laide. He was reputed to be the best operatic
leader in the colonies Perhaps he was. Anyhow,
we hope that a merciful Providence reserves a
better fate for this Johnny than to keep him sit-
ting on a damp cloud employed in striking popular
airs out of a golden harp, lie was, for many years
past, afflicted badly with dropsy, and always hated
discords. So that the damp cloud, and harp by an
unknown maker, would be perfectly unreason-
able, not to say injurious, in any properly organ-
ised scheme of heavenly economy. He was origi-
nally a Sydney boy. He need not necessarily be
blamed on that account. Probably his vote was
not taken in the matter. We doubt, whether or
no South Australia would have ever been chosen by
him as furnishing a more satisfactory nationality.
A German neighbour obligingly sold Johnny a
house for £1100, when property was low, some
years ago. The house is worth almost as much
now. This may help the German, but will not
help Johnny Hall's family, who are left in any-
thing but over-abundantly good circumstances.
He endeavoured to play the National Anthem for
Ooppin, in Sir W. Robinson's presence, one night;
felt unable to stand, but conducted the orchestra
as usual; and the following Saturday night, or
early Sunday morning, was dead as Abraham
Lincoln. His brother George, also a Sydney boy,
takes the vacant place. Actors and actresses will
come and go—George Darrells and J. P. Burnetts
—Jim himself, mayhap—George Rignold, Wybert
Reeve—ay, e’en the great Williamson and the
famous Garner-new-scenery-new-properties -but
many years will hardly suffice to entirely blot out
the broad back and burly figure of Johnny Hall.
Some years ago, our friend the eminent
and genial John Gabriel O’Ryan, barrister-at-law,
delivered in St. Benedict’s Schoolroom, Sydney,
his well-known lecture on Irish “poethry.” It
was on a Thursday night, and a light collation of
turkeys and champagne had been prepared in an
adjoining room to be worried by a lew friends
after the discoorse. The lecture was about as
long as from here to Cobar; and as the next day
was Friday, and no meat could be eaten after mid-
night, when it had gone eleven, and J. G., who
had started orating at 7.30, showed no signs of
caving in, the clerical and abstemious gentlemen
on the platform were beginning to get uneasy.
At last one of the reverend fathers,prompted by the
savoury odour of sage and onions which proceeded
from the adjoining apartment, gave John Gabriel
a nudge from behind with his twenty-seven ineh
foot. The audience had been asleep for an hour
or so; but on receiving this intimation of ap-
plause (as he took it to be) from so distinguished
a quarter, he got fresh courage, and, taking
a book from the table, saidNow, ladies
and gentlemen. I’ll just rade ye a little
pome of Moore’s, called “Lalla Rhook.” The
situation then became critical, as only one of two
things remained to be done—either to forcibly put
a head on John Gabriel or lose the supper. The
question of going in in relays was debated in hur-
ried whispers; but as it was then half-past eleven,
and four shiny-faced priests, not to speak of the
fat proprietor of a certain ecclesiastical publica-
tion, wanted to work the first shift, the others
r ised very natural objections. Then an expedient
was thought of, one of the priests going up to the
lecturer, who was getting well on in “ Paradise
and the Peri,’’ and whispering in his ear, “half-
past eleven, be Jabers, and to-morrow Friday.”
The effect was magical, for in less than three
minutes, and long before the last man in the
audience had been woke up and told to go heme,
they were all matched against time in a grand
turkey-wolfing tournament, the terrific pace of
which would have rendered the whole of our
“dining-out Ministry” bald-headed within a quar-
ter of an hour.
Of all tbo .London journals which deal in
maudlin, sycophantic, lickspittle to dying to
Royalty—and there are not a few,—commend us
to Society. Here, for example, are three tufts
culled from its issue of Oct. 27:— (1.) “Father
Neptune was in one of his rough moods when the
Prince and Princess of Wales crossed last week
from Flushing on board the Osborne. Even the
Prince could not go on deck, and was obliged to
remain with the rest of the party down below.”
Now, isn’t that quite too rich for anything ? “ Even
the Prince” could not go on deck. Imagine, then,
the howling, tempestuous fury of the storm, when
the gallant husband of the Sea-king’s daughter
from over the sea, himself the heir of the Vikings
bold, was obliged to remain in his bunk! The
Powers that raised that blast were certainly much
to blame for not respecting His Royal Highness;
and yet we think that they may have thought that
a stomach which no amount of servile adulation
can nauseate would have been stout to play the
Viking. (8.) “ On the first day that Prince Albert
Victor was at Trinity, an undergraduate uncere-
moniously bounced in upon the Prince and the
Rev. J. N. Dalton, expecting to find the friend!
who had been the previous occupant of the room.
He stayed a few minutes, inquiring if any
information could be given him as to the
present whereabouts of Jones, which natu-
rally was not forthcoming, and he left in
ignorance of the mistake he had made/’
Mark that! “ Which naturally was not forthcom-
ing.” Oh I the utter snobbishness of that “ natur-
ally,” Society evidently deeming that between a
Jones and a Prince a great social gulf is fixed:
just as though that gulf had never been bridged
by the affability of a Sovereign to a Brown. We
hope Albert Victor was less snobbish than Society,
and that the “unceremonious” undergrad, went
away without the information because H.R.H.
couldn’t, and not because he wouldn’t, give it. (3.)
“ A pleasing instance of Royal forethought is ro-
corded by Dr. Barnardo. He says that “ before
leaving England Her Serene Highness the Princess
Victoria Mary of Teck (daughter of the Princess
Mary) and her young brothers, arranged a collec-
tion of toys that had belonged to them, and which
they wished to send to Dr. Barnardo’s Homes,
hoping that they might afford amusement to some
of the little children in tne Homes.” Royal fore-
thought! Bosh! Pish! not to omit Tush! “That
had belonged to them ” Can it be that these scions
of the insolvent House of Tick bad borrowed 6r
conveyed those toys from the bailiffs, and so, at an
early age, evidenced a “trulyRoyal forethought,”
by being charitable at other people's expense?
* ♦ ♦
Called to N.S.W. Bar, December 17, Her-
bert Power Ellis (Middle Ten.pie).... Danish Consul
Tangfi has returned to Sydney, after a two years’
trip in Europe, with the Order of the Danebrog.
Were he a snob, now, it would be noli me tangere
with him. But he isn’t Christopher Dease, of
the Mace iay Herald, has postponed his lecture,
“ Personal reminiscences of several distinguished
characters for over half a century,” till 8th Janu-
ary next, for the advantage ef moonlight. We
are confident moonlight is the thing to harmonise
with Kit’s recollections.,..“The next piece on the
programme will be a solo by the pupils.” Thus the
Scion of the Nepean.
* * *
The Princess Louise has presented a
ghastly picture, lately on view at Boston, and
which she regards as one of her beat efforts,” to
the Canadian Art Gallery. This is intended as a
memento of her residence in Canada, and “as a
tribute of regard for its people.” W hat a cruel way
of showing her regard 1 Prince Leopold(a name, by
the bye, which has been mentioned several times
lately in connection with a Workingman’s College
at Melbourne) has blossomed into a musical com-
poser, Messrs. Chappell and Co. advertising a new
waltz entitled “ Fontainebleau—by H R.H. the
Duke of Albany.” As in the case of his elder
brother “ Edinburgh’s” production, doubtless, Sir
Arthur Sullivan has had a finger in the pie
The heaviest brain yet weighed was that of a
German baker, 65 oz. His bread was always light
— Miss Booth behaved like a larrikiness before
the Swiss Court. Suppose a Swiss fanatic stated
in an English Court his resolve to defy the law ?
Suppose I. ...Good news for the autochthyons of
New Guinea. MTver, who meditates annexing a
slice of their land, is (as the ultra-Tory White-
hall Review informs us) “ no Republican or
revolutionary warrior. His principles are always
in favour of monarchy, if net of the Divine right
of kings.” Marquis de Rays ran this identical ticket
by the bye... .A gravedispute is raging in England
In the highest circles of the upper ten on the point
whether the Duke of Argyll should resign the
Order of the Thistle on being created a Knight of
the Garter. Precedents both for his keeping and not
keeping it are quoted on either Bide. For our
own part, we think His Grace the Duke of Argyll
would be a confounded ass to give up his thistle
An advertisement appeared in the Dublin papers,
offering- a handsome reward for information of the
whereabouts or death of Lord Cecil Fairford, late
of Cheltenham and Abergavenny; of Mr. Henry
Lynch Blosse, eldest son of Sir Robert Lynch
Blosse; of Mr. Francis BlackbuVne, eldest son of
Mr. Edward Blackburne, of Kathfarnhara Castle,
Dublin; and of Mr. Edwin Curzon, eldest son of
the late Hon Sydney Curzon, of Kingston-on-
Thames and Blackpool. They surely cannot all
have run away with the same girl. Nor can they,
we suppose, all he in the same boiler at Circular
Quay The Ar.namese being displeased with
their King because of his compliance with the
French terms, poisoned him out of hand. He has
gone dead, and what his subjects are now on the
watch for is another King. This is the kind of
thing to recommend to the fellow, who. when you
are out of town or in the lock-up, writes poetry
to your girl, beginning
“ There are no eyes so bright as thine,
No pearls that can compare —
You can go oc,
Nothing like having your dogs nicely trained to fetch things for you.


QPERA house*
Lessee and Manager .. .. W. J. Wilton
■Staff e Manager for Mr. Darrell.. Mr. J. H. Rainford
The Lessee respectfully announces that arrange-
ments have been perfected for the inauguration
of a special Dramatic Season, commencing
THIS EVENING and every evening until
further notice,
w .n.en will appear, for the firsttiraein Sydney, since
ins highly successful tour round the world, the
celebrated Australian Actor and Author,
MB. GKO AGE DAURELL,
Supported by the most powerful company in
AustrdiliBi
First Production on the Sydney Stage of the en-
tirely original and wondrously successful Anglo-
AustraJfan Drama, in 5 acts and 8 tableaux, entitled
THE SUNNY SOUTH.
Dress Circle, 5s; Stalls, 3s, Pit, Is.
The overture will commence at iO minutes to 8 ;
curtain to rise at 8 precisely.
Box office at Huenerbein’s, 411 Geo.-st. Tickets
may be obtained also at Miltnorpe’s York Hotel.
finHEATRB ROYAL.—Underthe Management of
JL Messrs. Williamson, Garner. & Musgrove.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
and every evening until further notice,
THE GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME
of
JACK AND THE BEANSTHLK,
Prices of Admission:
DRESg CIRCLE, 5s.; hTALLS, 3s.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
Academy of music.
Lessee - - - W. H. Thompson.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
EGYPTIAN WAR.
LAVISH DISTRIBUTION OF CHRISTMAS
AND NEW YEAR’S GIFTS
will take place, at the discretion of the praprlctor,
without the slightest element of chance.
Lecturer, W. H. Thompson. Agent, H. Eastwood.
MISS LOLO DE
Disengaged.
G L O R 0 I N
DRAMA, COMEDY, and BURLESQUE.
168 Dowling-stroet,
Woolloomooloo.
limnU Turf U.
f Registered under the A.J.C. Rules).
ANNUAL RACES,
THURSDAY & FRIDAY, 11th and lith FEB., 1881.
President:
GERALD SPRING, Esq., M.L.A.
Vice-Presidents :
J, A. MACKINNON, Esq., M.L.A.; and Dr.
M’DOUGALb, Esq., J.P.
Judge:
J. J. WALSH.
Stewards ;
Messrs. J. MTvenzie, C. J. Tomalin, J. Rourkc, W.
Ward, F. G. Bennison, C. R. C. ’iindale, J.
M’Grory,
Starter: J. Ward. Clerkcf the Course; J. Hooper.
Clerk of the Scales : J. Allsopp.
FIRST DAY,
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1884.
MAIDEN PLATE of 25 sovs., with a sweep of 1
sov. each added for starters, sweep to go to
the second horse; for all horses that have
never won an advertised prize exceeding 10
.■sons, at time of entrance ; winnets of Two-
year-old Stakes admitted. Penalty for winning
-after entrance—once. 51b.; twice or more, 71b.;
weight for ago. Distance, 1J4 mile. Nomina-
tions, enclosing one sov. (part of entrance
money), will be received, under sealed cover,
by the Hon. Secretaries from date. Balance of
entrance fee, sweep, &c., on day of general
entry.
TOWN PLATF HANDICAP, a sweepstakes of
1 sov. each for starters, with 30 sovs. added ;
second horse to receive 5 sovs. from the stake.
Nominations (enclosing 1 sov.) to be in the
hands of the secretaries on or before 4 p.m. ou
the 8th day of January, 1884. Weights to be
declared on the 29th January. Acceptances,
enclosing 1 snv., to be in the bands of the
secretaries before 4 p.m. on the 8th day of
February; balance of entrance, day of general
entry ; sweep at scale ; winner of any handi-
cap of the value of £50 or over, after the
declaration of the weights, to carry a penalty
of 51b.; if two or more such handicap*, 71b
Distance, V& mile.
SECOND DAY,
FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 13, 1884.
UNION CUP, a handicap of 23 sovs., with a sweep-
stakes of 1 sov. each, together with the Cup,
value 20 guineas, presented by the Murrum-
burrah Athletic Sports Club ; second horse to
receive 5 sovs. from stake. Nominations, en-
closing 1 sov,, to be in the hands of the secre-
t tries on or before 4 p m. on the 8th of January.
Weights to be declared on the 28th January ;
balance of entrance ou day of general entry ;
sweep at scale. Winner of any handicap of
the value of £50 or over, after declaration
of weights, to carry a penalty of 5ii>.: of two
or more such handicaps, 71b.; and of the Town
Plate, 51b. in addition to penalties Incurred
elsewhere. Distance, 2 miles.
The A.J.C. Rules will be strictly adhered to.
G. R. SMITH, I Joint
F. MURRAY, ) Hon. Secs.
HAW8CES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and
STREETS, SYDNEY.
HUNTER
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery ; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds Of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
QTla.e !E3eliaTble Eia.g'g'ies I
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
TOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY StYLfe Ot BOGGY.
==== WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. rJIcCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
PRIVATE PAR TTP-STAIRR.
Continues to receive Large Shipments of
Barnett Samuel & Sons’ Gold Medal
In these instruments the voicing of the reeds is substituted for the old style of tunine
giving a large volume of broad, smooth tone, superior in filling and carrying powers ami
the utmost promptness of utterance. ’
BARNETT SAM li EL & SO NS
m.
mm
Also, suitable for
Christmas Presents and Hew Year’s Gifts,
Accordeons
Banjos
Batons
Clarionets
Cornets
Concertinas
Drums
Fifes
Flutes
Flageolets
Flutinas
A VARIETY OF MISCELLANEOUS INSTRUMENTS, COMPRISING—
Guitars
Harmonicans
HarmonifluteB
Insulators
Metronomes
Musical Boxes
Music Folios
„ Rolls
„ Books
,, Stools
,, Stands
Piccolos
Pitch Forks
,, Pipes
Post Horns
Statuettes of Musicians
Violins
Violin Strings
,, Bows, and every
requisite for the violin
Violinoellos
Zithers
PIANO, ORGAN, & MUSIC WAREHOUSE
356 Greorge-street, Sydney,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Itofetiiw Present-^
The most
Suitable
IS A COVENTRY MACHINISTS COMPANY’S
TRICYCLE
For LADIES or GENTLEMEN.
The Ladies' ‘Cheylesmore’
Is the most perfect Tricycle made.
or
—a
BICYCLE
For BOYS, YOUTHS, or ADULTS.
The SPECIAL CLUB
Is the most perfect Bicycle made.
OUR JUVENILE TRICYCLES are superior to any
that have ever before been offered in Australia.
OUR BOYb’ EICYCLES are fitted and finished in best
style, handsome in appearance, and thoroughly reliable.
PRICES OF TRICYCLES
Range from £5 5s. for Juvenilesizes
to 30 guineas for our highest styles.
PRICES OF BICYCLES
Range from Q guineas for Boys' to
25 guineas for our highest finish.
Me send, post free, the handsomest Catalogue in the Colony. Write for it
James MARTIN a C ompy - 0ppo5ito Ito;a! Hote1 '
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE Of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 43 KINO STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WEI*.
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON. TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
500
900
1500
1500
600
1200
TOO
. 600
* To arrive.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited).
43 King Street. Sydney.
INTERCOLONIAL JUVENILE INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.
THE OPENING CEREMONY
will be performed by
HIS EXCELLENCY LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS
at 3.30 p.m., on
WEDNESDAY, 19th DECEMBER.
The OPENING CANTATA will be sung by a
Chorus of 600 Public School Cnlldren, assisted by
Miss Marie St. Clair, Mr. J. Moon, Mr. F. Brewer,
and Mr. A. H. Gee.
Words of the Cantata by J. Barlow, Esq.
Music by Herr Hugo Aipln.
Conductor—Herr Hugo Aipln.
Special trains to Park Platform on Exhibition
Ground. Excursion rates from all stations. Spe-
cial concession to children.
Arrangements have been made with Mr. C. E.
Jcanneretttorun additional steamers, as well as
trams, to the Park gate, five minutes walk to
Exhibition.
The building will, by the kind permission of Mr.
E. S. Cracknell, be lighted in the evening with
electric light.
Admission to the opening ceremony, 2s. 6d.; In
the evening, Is.
CHAP. E. ROWLUTO.
Hon. 8eo.
DISSOLUTION OF PARTNERSHIP.
In consequence of the death of Mr. H.T. Peterson.
GENUINE CLEARANCE SALE ©f an immense
and magnificent stock of Gold and Silver
Jewellery, Diamond Goods, Watches, Clocks ;
Sterling Silver, Electroplate, and Optical Goods.
Total value, £30,000.
WORN AND PETERSEN,
SYDneV Arcade, Kihq-street,
regret to announce that, in consequence of ihe
death of their Partner, Mr. PeteSsEY, they ar®
compelled to dispose of the whole of their VALU-
ABLE STOCK, to pay out the Interests due to the
Legatees under the will of the deceased partner,
and, to effect a speedy clearance, will SELL AT A
G HEAT SACRIFICE, and positively no reasonable
offer for any of the Goods will be refused.
The Stock comprises
GOLD and SILVER JEWELLERY of the most
rechercM description, and WATCHES from the
best and most well-known makers; and, being a
BONA FIDE SALE,
offers an unusual opportunity for procuring
Christmas and New Year’s Gifts.
HORN AND PETERSEN,
Sydney Arcade, King-street.
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY.
CASH SALE,
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 29 Hunter-street,
beg to inf im their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 35 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.
N.B.—As Christmas is close at band, the opportu-
nity should not be missed of purchasing intended
gifts.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 18th December 1883.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS AND IMPROVE-
MENTS.
TENDERS are invited for Additions and Im-
provements at the Fort-street Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and
Forms of Tender obtained at the office of the De-
partment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Additions and
Improvements, Fort-street Public School,” must
be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, De-
partment of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a.m., on Wednesday, the 9th January 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
ALCOCK&CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS
co.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
“ What to do in Cases of Accident and Everyday
Complaints.”
ANEW and useful book highly rQOQmmeQded,
la. only. All Booksellers.


Keep the kidneys healthy and unob-
sbucted with Hop Bitters, and you need not fear
sickness. Bead.
When the Lytton Club gave their social
entertainment, about four mouths ago, it was not
intended to give another so soon; but somehow
they changed their mind. Their invitation cards
for the Christmas union last Friday were daintily
got up—gold for double, and silver for single ones
—and they contained a programme of the concert.
This was varied; and although “no encores” was
announced, it seemed impossible to keep the rule
when little Miss Harbin sang •• Stolen Kisses” with
such pretty naivete. She was obliged to come on
again, and then gave the patter song commencing
“French language Is a bother,” from “lolanthe.”
Her articulation is excellent, and her soprano very
sweet. The other exception was Mr. H. Pier, who
gave “Alice, where art thou ?” in his best form.
An encore was insisted upon, and he rolled
out the music with splendid power. Other
items were, glees by a party of males voices:
zither sclos; “The Shipwrecked Crew,” recited by
Mr. B. Palmer; and “ Over the Hills to the Poor-
house,” by Mr. C. Teece; and Mr. W. M‘Carthy’s
song, “She reigns alone.” Mr. J. K. Bradley re-
cited “A Silver Wedding,” one of G. K. Sims’s
Dagonet ballads, which aie becoming more popu-
lar every day. Mr. Jefferson sang W T oodfleld’s
sweet speciality, “Love never sleeps ;” and Misses
Sheridan Reed, Simpson, Chapman, E Kennedy,
&c., also contributed. The hall was brightly deco-
rated with devices expressing the compliments
of the season. After the concert, chairs were re-
moved, some guests went away, and the rest re-
mained tor a dance 1.11 one o’clock. Good dancers
were plentiful, and the toilets in some cases both
prettv and pretentious; but, as it was not a regu-
lar ball, some girls did not come fully armed, and
it would not be fair to mention some while others
laboured under such a distressing handicap.
Music was by volunteers, and Miss Hart deserves
credit for her excellent waltz-playing.
Catarrh of the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
intlamation, all Kidney and similar Complaint,s
cured by “ Buchu-paioa.” Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney, General Agents.
To those interested in mining, the “Mining
Leaseholders’ Guide,” by T. F. He Courcy Browne,
will be of great service. It explains all the par-
ticulars in connection with gold and mineral
leases and mineral conditional purchases. A
chapter on the minerals, ores, and gems found in
New South Wales—their appearance and tests—
will he found useful to prospectors &nd others,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“ Christmas Pantomime .. P-8.
Opera House— “The Sunny South’ in.
Gaiety Theatre—“ Maritana” ih<
Academy or Music—“Zulu War” in.
WHAT IS IT?
See its teeth flashing.
Foaming and gnashing!
See its eyes glaring.
Like gig-lamps flaring;
Bloodshot and blazing.
Beholders crazing!
Nails from its hide grow.
Spikes from its side grow;
Its feet are claw-like,
Its tail is saw-like,
Its ears are hacked as
The prickly cactus;
Pig-like its shape is.
Shark-like its gape is—
See its eyes rolling.
Its red tongue lolling!
What is it ? Well, sirs,
To you we’ll tell, sirs—
’Tis Gogmagog, sirs,
The ofiice-dog, sirs.
A good dog, too, though
(The thing’s not new, though)
It has detractors.
(N.B.—It lives ©n actors).
* * * *
When we reported, recently, that Signor
Verdi was insolvent, there w?s a moan throughout
the city. For Verdi, being gifted with a loveliness
that is surpassing, mashes—of course, uncon-
sciously—mankind. We mean (we must explain) the
mankind with 7-inch boot-heels and diamond
negligia. And Verdi— we don’t know why—reminds
us of another t°nor we once knew (no relation),
who also mashed unconsciously. In him was
centred the hatred of the dudes; on his head
descended the curses of the “chappies' Well,
this particular singer had chunks of his own way
all the time. Yet his conversational powers were
not extensive. For instance, when (as we have
often seen him) “hooking on” (as he called it, m
his pleasant way) to “ something elegant and
rekerky,” he would merely say: “A-ha! Nice
this! Et puis c'etait flnl. He had a lot of funny
ways, had our friend, the other singer. And espe-
cially a lot of funny sayings. Some days he would,
while sunning himself (and the world) in King-
street, betray a rugged brow. On these occasions,
when we met him, we would mildly ask the
cause of the trouble. “This is maddening,”
he would say—“maddening.” “ What are you suf-
fering from ?” we would courteously enquire.
“From loss of memory,” he would reply. “In
jotting down my engagements in my diary, the
other day, I turned over two pages at once. And
now I And I am under promises to take five differ-
ent ladies to Coogee.” “ Does that trouble you ? ”
“ Well, no, not much; but—” as an afterthought—
“ it might trouble some of the ladies.”
♦ * *
But what (to drop the artist of whom we
have spoken) it occurs to us will trouble a
good many ladies more than this is the admission
by Signor Guglielmo Verdi, in the Melbourne In-
solvency Court, that his name is “ William Green.”
“Mvnafne,” he said, “is William Green.” Weare
very fond of Verdi, and would like to tone it
down, if we could; but we can’t quite see our way
to do so in one issue. From William Green you
descend, at once, to Bill Green ; and Bill Green
when not Italianised is a crusher. No one
who has known Signor Verdi will be sur-
prised at Mr. Purves asking him if he had
won £1000 at a sitting from a Mr. Jennings
at the Oxford here. Mr. Yerdi would bet on many
things—though perhaps he was hardly so bad as the
man who would bet the first fly that would get
out of a beer-glass, on how many corns an
opera-bouffe artiste had on her dexter foot, or on
how many fleas a clever girl could catch in the
dress-circle during the first act of “The Mascotte —
who would “go you” for a tenner odd or even on the
number of freckles on a chorus-lady’s elbow, and
speculate anything in three figures on a race
between two beetles on a bar counter. “ People,
Mr. Green informed Mr. Purves, in court, “ don’t
play in this country for love.” There is a lot of
truth in this. People hardly do anything for love
in this prosaic place. Yet what a lot of very
pretty people would do a very great deal for
Verdi. This is how the case opened:—“ Mr. Purves:
What is your name? Insolvent? Guglielmo Verdi.
Mr. Purves : Is that your real name ? Insolvent:
That is my English name, translated into Italian. ’
This makes us uneasy. We have always been a
great admirer of the author of “II Trovatore.”
Now wo find, however, that his name, trans-
lated into English, means Green. This makes
us pensive. The point seems to be this; —
All Italian names are now a delusion,
for what we can tell; for nobody knows
anything about Italian m this country but
“Chris,” and he learned it when on the Continong
eati n g maccaronl at Naples. For all we know,
now, Donizetti translated into English might mean
K. B Smith, Rossini old Piddingtonsky, and
Cherubini Andy Lynch. And this would be heart-
breaking ! Would it not ?
* • «
We regret to detect, throughout the pro
ceedings, that Mr. Purves did not display towards
the insolvent that spirit of courtesy which it
might have been anticipated he would have
vouchsafed to an artist whose claims upon leniency
are those of loveliness and melody. But Purves
didn’t abate a jot of his ordinarily virulent manner.
One funny thing he elicited was this: that George
(author, stage-manager, and director) — that
smileless George—lent Verdi £60 or so on an order
on the “Festival Company.” It seems that
Guglielmo got the money, if we are t<3 believe the
following amusing slice of the evidence from
the Melbourne Herald, and—but read, and
if you have sufficient time mark, and if
a lot of leisure inwardly digest the append-
ed extract:—“ Although the proceedings
were in my name, they were on behalf of
Mus ,r rove. After Mr. Butt recovered the money
I went to ask him for it. I got the money from
him. It was £70. Mr. Purves : This was the same
money you had given to Musgrove under the
order. Insolvent: Yes. Mr, Purves : What did
you do with it? Insolvent : I was penniless (sic)
at the time, and spent it on my own needs. Before
I spent it, and when I had the money in my
pocket, I saw Mr. Musgrove in the street. I un-
derstood him to ask me for it. Mr. Purves : Did
you say to him you could not give him the money?
Insolvent: I said I could not give it to him. I
could not leave myself penniless. He did not ask
me for any portion of it. He said he did not sup-
pose I would like to be under any obligation to
any one, and that I would pay it, as it was a
friendly loan. I owed about £170 on the day I
got his money. I owed Mr. Musgrove £65, Mr.
Jacobson about £100, and also a few tradesmen’s
bills. I did not pay Jacobson or Musgrove. I
paid one man £80. I don’t know if I’m at liberty
to mention his name.” Verdi—though he never
sings under £30, and hardly ever under £35
a week, is “penniless” after an unsuccessful
week of an opera season. But, then, it must be
remembered, Guglielmo bad a heap of expenses.
For instance, he had to pay £7 for “two portraits
in the Melbourne Bulletin.” “Those abomin-
able pictures,” as Mr. Purves is unkind enough
to say; though they were the counterfeit presenti-
ments of Signor G. G.’s prime donne. Mr. G. didn't
pay the £7, by the way, as it would have been pal-
pably unjust, had he done so, to Mr. Dunning, to
whom he owed £480. And it is a cause of some
relief to us to leant that Mr. Yerdi never know a
certain Miss Lizzie Fitzgerald. Had he done so, it
might, for aught we know, have interfered with
her peace of mind. But it is plain from the fol-
lowing, that, so far as Lizzie is concerned, the
Signor is perfectly guiltless of even the semblance
of a flirtation!-"Now, at this Lizzie Fitzgerald’s
house, have you not won money? Insolvent: I
have never been in the woman’s house.—Mr.
Purves: What! never? Now, be careful. You
swear you were never in her house! Insolvent:
Not in a house she called her own. I have been in
a house with Lizzie Fitzgerald.—Mr. Purves: Do
you swear you never played cards in a house "dth
her? Insolvent: liplayed cards, I remember, about
five years ago.—Mr. Purves: Never since ? Insol-
vent: No.”
• • •
As we said last week, Verdi is to sing with
the Turners, at the Gaiety here, opening in the
“ Bohemian Girl; ” and then, doubtless, when the
fact of the poor fellow oeing “ penniless ” is
known, a few soft-hearted girls will push him an
occasional sandwich under the door of the_Cla-
rendon.
* * *
And now for a little theatrical anecdote,
which, with the assistance of an Italian barber,
we translate straight from the German. Well,
then, there was once a small variety troupe tra-
velling in the region of Amsterdam. They only
went on the principle of “ two-night stands.” and
biz being very bad, on the second morning the
boss of the show said to the landlord (in his own
language)—* 1 Well, old boy, I guess we’ll have to
strike the next town before we can ante up.” The
landlord smiled widely enough to show his only
tooth (which was somewhere under his right ear),
and said—“Oh, don’t trouble; that will be all
right.” And he grinned pleasantly on the young
lady of the company who played the harp. Things
being thus comfortably settled, the troupe ad-
journed to the hall (of which theboniface was also
proprietor), and ordering round their trap, they
proceeded to pack up. They packed up accord-
ingly ; round came the waggonette, and the com-
pany with great alacrity began to bundle in the
“ props.’ and dresses. All of a sudden the manager
cried—“ We’ve forgotten Lager’s harp.” Then he
tore inside to get it. He found the landlord con-
templating it admiringly, and gently toying with
the strings. “ We’d nearly forgotten it,” cried the
boss of the show. “ You leave this harp with
me,” said the host, “ until you send me the money.
It will amuse my children—I have six of them—to
make music with these strings.” Here he struck
a chord with his boot. . . . Ten minutes
later the money was put up, and the harp hoisted
into the trap, and the company drove off, to the
hoarse accompaniment of the landlord's laughter.
* * * *
George Darrell called round the other
morning, and gave us a whole lot—all he could
spare—of his opinion about things theatrical here
and otherwise. He when Fanny Davenport
played Camille, she wore a dress of glass, and adds
—“Thus I was doubly blessed; for I was enabled
to hug my glass and my lass at the same time.”
He considers that the actor has a superior status in
England to that which he has here, and tells of the
enormous difficulty to be experienced in inducing
stars to come out here. “ I offered Irving an en-
gagement for the colonies, but he politely declined
for the present—some future time. There’s his
letter. Toole ditto. Ada Cavendish, a capital
actress, will come later on. The Countess Mod-
jeska I met at a swell reception. In course of
conversation anent the Australians, she expressed
her wish to come, but as she wanted an island at
least, and as I only offered her Tasmania, the
negotiation fell through.” George still intends to
take to London an Australian company to play in
an Australian play by an Australian author.
“There is more money to be made with one suc-
cess in London,” he says, “than with a dozen out
here.” After his Sydney season, George goes to
play seven weeks in Adelaide, the T.R. of which
city he and Jim Rainford have leased for Jsix
months from Jim Allison.
* * * *
In Thursday’s Herald we noticed the
following ad.:—“ Wanted, 25 ballet girls. Apply.
Academy of Music, between 2 and 3 this day.”
Well, Zulu Thompson opens at this noble spot, and
troubles us is what he can want with “ 25
ballet girls.” But, after all, Zulu was ever a man of
large ideas. Not that, of course • — Butther**!
Read this about another great man—Irving—who,
now ho is in America, has a weekly par. cabled to
the Daily News:—” Henry Irving, before leaving
the shores of Britain, placed his blind dog in the
I barge of a butcher." And, by the way, Kate
Sarrtley, who has been making such a big success
in the “Merry Duchess,” painted all the panels in
her circle-tiers, and the result is said to be artistic.
Kate, this reminds us, is “ resting.” It is about
time. The first time we saw Kate Santley she was
singing at a London music hall called (familiarly)
the “ Met;” and later she and Jennie Leo were
nl,lying together at Niblo’s Garden in the “ Black
Crook.” Kate must therefore be—like Wyb»rt
Reeve, for instance —almost seventeen. And
didn't Georgia Smithson “knock ’em” at Carcoar?
A crowded house, and Carcoar Mary enthu-
siastic. Here is a bit of our fair friend’s
immortal notice: —“Her [Georgia’s] best charac-
ter on Tuesday was that of the aesthetic
young lady whose languidity (sic) was quite
too too utterly (sic) for utterance. We were
glad to see such a good house. When an
actor or an actress of any note comes to Carcoar,
the support of the townspeople is assured. We
hope to have to announce Miss Smithson at some
future time.” We always loved Mary’s style,
even when she was wont to “ get on ” to our poor
little selves in her paper.
• • * »
And, to stew up a few more items, we
may as well chip in with the astounding fact that
Frank Towers, Newton Griffiths, a*.d other “ stars”
have been giving the Rockhamptonites—by way
of something new—“The Ticket-of-Leave Man.’’
Oh, and listen, boor Ada Ward got engaged to a
“syndicate” which —it reminds us, a little, of
Verdi's opera company—went broke after a splen-
did failure of one consecutive wees. The N.Y-
MiHROiisays that “ Miss Ada Ward now travels on
her splendid costumes.” Wo knew a la<iy of that
name, one time, who used to travel on her
freckles. And how did she mash Charles the
Wrestler! But this was, doubtless, another lady.
♦ »- * •
The Queensland Acting Chief Justice has
allowed an amateur company to use the words and
characters of “ Mascotte.” He debarred them
from the music onlu. The piece has now some
chance of receiving fair play.
« « * «
There is only one Darrell—and James H.
Ha inford is his prophet. If anyone after this date
ever dare to insinuate that George is not a genius,
we shall operate on that party with the stock of
our little musket. We went t<» the Opera House
on Saturday, and saw “ The Sunny South.” This
piece is written on something the same lines as
Paul Meritt’s pieces; but—>*nd we are glad to be
able to say this for George—" The Sunny South ”
is, to our thinking, more neatly constructed, and
the dialogue certainly more sparkling, than that
of any of the melodramas out of which Mr. Augus-
tus Harris issaid to have made his fortune. Above
all, “ The Sunny South” is most excellently staged,
and the supers, in the various tableaux exhibit an
intelligence in the “ rallies ” which in banner-
bearers and “Adelphi guests” may bo aptly said
to bo phenomenal.
• • •
There was a big house; and to make it
bigger one box was occupied by Musgrove, whose
classic features never for one moment puckered
into the scintilla of a smile. George, by the way
—but, of course, you have heard. What! No?
Thunder ! Well, he drives a pair of £230 ponies,
in a mail-phicton, and has a man to sit behind in
livery, with a hat and a gold band and a cockade
like a window ventilator. Whenever George gives
him an order, he replies, “Yes, my lord ” ; that
being the only line he had to say in the only
speaking part bo ever had—the gifted M. having
recruited him from histrionic ranks. But to go
back to the grave-we mean the piece. This
slip was caused by our thoughts once more
alighting-we now quote the programme—on
George Darrell, Esq., author of “Transported for
Life,” “ The Forlm-n Hope,” “ Back from the
Grave.” “The Naked Truth,” &o. &c. Well, even
on the first night it went without a hitch; and,
though the first act might have gone a little
quicker, the actors, as a whole, were surprisingly
perfect- a result, of course, due to long, patient,
and diligent rehearsals. The acting was first-
class. The most prominent flugure, of course,
was George; and ho looked splendid in the first
act in a velvet coat and top-boots, and generally
picturesque all through the piece. There can be
no question whatever about his talents as an
actor. He is very clever; and, what is the more
to his credit, he is especially clever in the comedy
parts of the piece—possessing much of that repose
which is so noticeable in the impersonations of
Coglan and Bancroft, and which is so seldom seen,
we are sorry to say, in colonial interpreters of the
lighter phase of the drama. James Rainford, who
pi a; eel “Ben Brewer, a representative digger.’’
did as well in that part as he did in the Sergeant in
“Ours.” His make-up and costume were singu-
larly artistic. You could note the matted hair, the
touzled beard, and the hands sun-baked with ex-
posure. Thcu, his moleskin pants were clay be-
spotted, and his boots were the boots—not of a
dancing master (which seems to have been the
rule, previously, with all impersonators of the
typical miner), but the iron-bound bluchers of the
winch and bucket manipulator. Mr. George
Forbes was capitally got-up as "Ivo Came, a new
chum,” and we are inclined to consider that this
is the best piece of work George has done.
Jimmy South was immense as a comic
lawyer, and his catch-phrase—“that s a staggerer!’
was received with yells by the pit; and Harry
Simmons made a lot out of the part of a comic
footman, but was a trifle slow in the first act, and
bis scenes with Maggie Oliver (a stage chamber-
maid) dragged considerably. Maggie herself,
looked especially charming—
No wrinkle you could trace
’Midst the bloom upon her face;
And when her form was seen
Said the pitites— “Seventeen.”
m • *
And we must tell you of Miss Edith
Pender (Mrs. Jimmy) who was—this rather savours
of Dr. Neild, but welike to befatherlyat Christmas
time’-delightful as “Clarice Chester, born in the
Purple” {sic) : and Miss Maggie Knight was lively
as “ Bubs (sic) Berkly, bred in the Bush;” but she
missed- especially in her earlier scenes—some of
her many chances. Syl. Kyan was great in every
sense of the word; aud a particular line is due
to a young actor named Frank Gerald (lately
an amateur, we believe) for the amusing
manner in which he played Jinks, a larrikin. Ana
we must not forget Raynor, who was capital as
the heavy father; nor West, the villain whose
everv syllable was clothed with gore. On the
whole, therefore, “ The Sunny South” is certainly
a success, and should make a heap of money tor
that author-actor whom we have ever revered.
* * * *
Wo shall have to let our notice of the
“ Bohemian Girl.” by the Montaguc-Turners, stand
1 over uotil next week; and also about sixteen
columns on Mussy’s pantomime. And a few other
important things, including the Clark and Kymana
—whom we have to sincerely thank for a season
iicket, since the receipt of which our joyfortao
holidays is secured.
« ♦ • •
Frank Warden gave what he called a lecture
on Darlinghurst, at the Temperance Hall, on Fri-
day night, and we looked in to see how he got on.
Frank, who is a tad, soldierly-looking fellow, with
a very vehement delivery, though a somewhat un-
certain intonation, wts seated on a platform ana
surrounded by flowers. Frank’s principal point
seemed to be the badness of the Gaol food, on
whica he dilated at great length, illustrating his
fiery remarks by means of a pound of bread and a
potato. The food, of course, may be bad, as Mr.
Warden avers—but it seems to agree with some
people; and we think, if Frank could only know
how much better he looks now than when he went
to his “nine months’seclusion,” he would pause
before crushing completely, as he proposes to do,
the whole of the Gaol authorities. There was
about “ £8 in,’’ and the spirit of melancholv was
on the whole affair. The more the orator roared
the more the ncople applauded; but many grew
pensive, not to say gioomy, when the lecturer
dilated upon the prayers‘he had offered up m his
coll. The police were particularly present, and a
pieman appeared to do well on the door-step.
* * * *
The papers seem to say that Gus. Glover
hasn’t done much in Melbourne with his drama of
“The Wanderer;” but they all agree that he is a
capital actor —which, indeed, he is. Journalistic
jam, however, won’t put beef in the pot. We wish
it would; for then we would never see an actor
hungry. And, while we remember it, Arthur
Vivian, Miss Helen (no Nellie now), and Colonel
Ike Austin are playing Gouiburn at Christmas.
Arthur says he wants a drama in which to intro-
duce the Colonel's specialities. He came round,
and asked us for a piece—just as pat as he would
ask for pie (and what could be patter than that?),
but we referred him to the 'gifted author (whom
we are sorry hear has been sick) of “ Sunny N.S.
Wales.” Then there is a letter from Harry Lynch,
who is at Calcutta; and referring to a young lady's
performance in “ The Bells ” (Cates’s “ ben.”), the
Australasian says: “In the small part of the
waiting-maid, Miss Nellie a Bilton discovered (sic) a
clearness of enunciation which should kelp her
well when she plays more important parts.” Miss
Nellie Bilton is but never mind. We respect
the feelings of a father.
Mr. C. E. Jeanneret.
On our front page in this issue is the portrait of
Mr. Charles Edward Jeanneret, one of the most
enterprising and successful of our native-born
colonists. He was born in this city in 1834, and la
the only surviving son ®f Dr. Henry Jeanneret, an
old colonist of N.S.W., and subsequently Civil
Commandant of Flinders Island, a dependency of
Tasmania. At this latter place, Mr. Jeanneret
spent many of his early days, and acquired a
knowledge of practical seamanship and naviga-
tion, which led him on a trip to Europe, while yet
18. He, however, decided against a nautical
profession, and returned to Australia, first spend-
ing three years at the Bendigo gold rushes, and
finally settling in his native city. He was for a
time engaged in the Bank of N.S.W., but more
active pursuits had a greater attraction for him,
and he entered into partnership with Mr. Henry
Porter, carrying on a general agency. About this
time Mr. Jeanneret married, and settled at
Hunter’s Hill, where he was very successful in
prudent land investments in that beautiful
suburb. The means of communication with
Sydney were then of tne most imperfect charac-
ter, and Mr. Jeanneret became a shareholder and
manager of a local steam company'. Alter some
years of keen and unprofitable competition with
the old Parramatta company, an amalgamation
took place, which, owing to the heavy indebted-
ness of both companies, was followed by their
being sold, fleet and goodwill together, to Mr.
Jeanneret. At this time, in 1876, there were five
steamers, which have since been increased by an
addition ot fifteen new ones, Avhich in every way
meet the whole goods and passenger trade of the
river. Meanwhile, Mr. Jeanneret actively iden-
tified himself with farming, mining, meat-
preserving, and other industries, and he lent
substantial assistance to the river suburbs, many
of the principal residences there having been
built by him. One of his best works is the Parra-
matta tramway, connecting the town, the race-
course, and sports grounds with the head of the
river navigation—a werk of great public utility.
Since 1871 Mr. Jeanneret has taken an active part
in municipal work, being an alderman of the
Hunter’s Hill borough since he inaugurated it—
and for some years mayor. In 1875, Mr. Jeanneret
contested Central Cumberland, but both he and Mr.
A. H.M’Culloch were unsuccessful against Messrs.
Lackey and Wearne. Mr. M’Culloch persevered,
and at the following election was triumphantly
returned, but Mr. Jeanneret did not again essay a
political campaign, though frequently requested
to do so. Despite great pressure of private
business, Mr. Jeanneret’s active disposition gave
him time to adjudicate at the Water Police Court,
where his decisions, sometimes against his brother
magistrates, were marked by strict justice and
sound common sense. We understand Mr. Jean-
neret has in view a new line of tramways
connecting Ryde, via Hunter’s Hill, with feydney
—with steam punts across the river, which should
prove of universal benefit to that fast-rising,
splendid district.
CHERRY RIPE.


It ia all very well for Baron (bah I) Tenny!
son to talk of letti' gr “the ape and tiger die.” If
h« lived on the Manning River, like Edward Bral-
ligan, who bit half an ear off one Richard Brown,
in a bar-fight, the other night, he might have
thought differently. But the idyllic Baron does
not live on the Manning River, and conaequentiy
he can afford to write with a philosophic and
poetic ealm to which he could never attain if in-
spired by bush rum. Whenever he feels mad
about anything—say about having to write an ode
to the glorious and immortal memory of John
Brown—he can wreak his vengeance on any of
the Royal Family that happen to be handy, by
reading them his latest lyric. Edward Bralligan
never had such a chance, and consequently Edward
is in trouble. Which is a pity. You see Edward
was not a poet, and of course had not the finer
feelings that would actuate a poet in a free fight.
Edward got his opponent down, and, throwing
false delicacy to the winds, took away as much as
he could carry of Mr. Brown’s ear in his teeth.
The old savage nature that seems to be the basis
of all of us came uppermost, and — nobody will
ever be able to accuse Mr. Brown of letting a
statement “pass from one ear into the other.”
After Mr. Brown had lost his punkah,
there was a search made for it in the
bar and the back yard, through both of
which the fight had raged. It was not dis-
covered. Suspicion points to a man who had been
in the bar at the time as having smuggled it away
to make a saddle of it. But the curious part of
the affair is that when Mr. Bralligan asked Mr.
Brown to take a drink with him aud shake hands
over their little squabble, Mr. Brow;n refused. He
was very m uch annoyed at losing his ear. Perhaps
he was right. It might have been a source of in-
come to him. A man with a good pair of Manning
River ears can do very well by hiring himself out
as a windmill after the harvest. This is the only
excuse that could be offered for his refusing to
taka a drink. What is an ear, more or less, any-
how? And supposing 5t is a good deal, a man
doesn’t drink with his ear, does he ? Howiver this
may be. Hr. Bralligan is in trouble. But, fortun-
ately, he will soon get out of trouble and into gaol
Sometimes you can back the sagacity of a
man against the sagacity of a dog, and sometimes
otherwise. On a recent occasion—in Warrnam-
bool —it was otherwise. There was, or is—if he is
•till alive, a fact of which we are not sure—a dog-
inspector down there who, being a man of bright
ideas, used to drum a kerosent-tin at the doors of
houses where he suspected unregistered dogs to
be in hiding. The dogs came out to hear the
music, and were, of course, at once collared by the
wily inspector. The owners of the dogs used to
take no notice of him, because they thought it
was the town band practising—the same band
which some time ago went to a local hotel and
played beneath the window of a certain gallant
Colonel, who was on a visit to the district. The
Colonel didn’t open his window, or otherwise let
the thirsty musicians see that he took notice of the
serenade. So, after they had played for four
hours, they mournfully processed down Timor-
street to serenade old Joe Ballis, the leather-
lunged bellman, with a view of obtaining ginger-
beer. The Colonel was found dead in bed next
morning, and as the jury were attached to
local institutions, they returned a verdict of
“ Died by the visitation of Divine Providence,”
and made no mention about the visit of the Town
Band [This is a great digression.—Ed. B.j. Well,
one day, the inspector's strains drew out a cross-
eyed bull-dog—a well-bred, truculent-looking,
unpr'ncpled ruffla n , with milk-white skin and
bloodshot eyes. Doctor “Mae.” thinks the in-
spector will be able to sic down by the time the
breakwater is finished. Th« completion of the
breakwater Is the date fixed for the Warrnambool
millenium. We once went to Warrnambool, and
immediately after landing met an Intoxicated
gentleman who ten years before had, in the same
town, with much fervour, bade us good-bye, and
told us, as a horse-bean-sized tear, begotten of hia
eighteenth whisky at the Commercial, coursed
dow" his weather-beaten cheeks, that “ whtn the
breakwater was finished, all would be right,
and Warrnamboool would go ahead like—
(hie)—blazes.” Well, when we re-visited Warr-
nambool, the old gentleman was still fud-
dled, and was still outside the Commercial.
“How d’ye do? ’ we asked with much empresse-
meat-which, however, gave place to a suspicion
of sadness as we perceived that the friend of our
youth was fast going down the hill at the foot of
which is the Valley of the Shadow of Death *
“ Ah,” mournfully responded the old man (dix ana
apres, mind you,) biznesh Isn’t lively in Warrnam-
bool jush now. But (hie) we’re gettin’ on pretty
fasht. Breakwater (hie) ’ll he tendered for soon.
And still, we are informed, the old gentleman
stands outside the Baron’s hostelry, awaiting the
arrival of the st< ne-ship which we all see somstinu g
on the horizon “where earth and heaven but seem,
alas I to meet,” and which sinks ere it meets the
sands.
Elies and bugs, beetles, insects, roaches, ants,
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, jack-rabbits, cleared
out by “Rough on Rats.” Moses, Moss & Co,.
Sydney. General Agents.
ICY CL IN G EXPERIENCE.
John Rolf ex Esq., Champion Bicyclist of England
and Australia, who at present is open to run
a long distance race with any bicyclist for the
championship of the world, gives his Personal
Experience of the Valuable Properties of St.
Jacobs Oil, as used by him in his Recent Contest
with John Watson, for the Championship of
Australia.
268 Elizabeth-street north,
Melbourne, Victoria,
33rd November, 1883,
To the Editor of The Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—I desire to add my cheerful endorse-
ment to the good effects I have at all times
received from the use of St. Jacobs Oil when in
active training and racing. During my recent six
days' contest, held in the Melbourne Exhibition
Building, for £500 and the championship of the
Australian and adjacent colonies, it was my boon
companion. I continually used it before and
after each day’s performance, and the results
simply astonished me. After riding for eight
consecutive hours each day—viz., from half-past
2 until half-past 10, my limbs would become sore
ar d stiff from over exertion, but after being well
rubbed with the Oil, all muscular pa,n immediately
vanished, and I felt as fresh as ever. As proof
positive, alter the contest was over I rode 100
miles against time before a public audience, and
accomplished it in six hours 11 minutes 45J4
seconds. Another application of St. Jacobs Oil
was made, and it removed all feeling of fatigue,
and I felt perfectly fit for another race. Am
positive it aided me to win the match, and I shall
never enter a similar contest without a bicycle
and St. Jacobs Oil.
I strongly advise ail “wheelmen” and other
athletes to give it a trial, and feel fully convinced
their experiences will compare favourably with
my own.
I remain, dear sir, yours truly,
JOHN ROLFE.
WONDeRF ILL RELIEF.
October 30tb, 1888,9 Hunter-street, city.
To the Editor of The Bulletin Dear sir.—
This is to testify that, having used ST. JACOBS
OIL for a painful affection f the chest, 1 soon
experienced grateful and permanent relief. Two
applications entirely removed the pain, and I
heartily recommend to any person similarly
afflicted the great German remedy, in the fullest
confidence that it will be equally efficacious.—I
remain, dear sir, yours respectfully. H. Roberts.
Wholesale Depot for New South Wales;
BROTHERS, Sydney,
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
An ancient tablet in the Cathedral of
Lubeek, speaks out straight to Parson Jom In the
following words:—“Ye call me Master, and in-
quire not of Me; Light, and look not on Me; the
Way, and follow Me not; the Life, and desire Me
not; Merciful, and trust Me not: Noble, and serve
Me not; Just, and fear Me not. If I condemn you,
blame me not.”
The Liberal, propounds to the Anglican
community the following conundrum in propor-
tion:—“If 1700 subscribers to the Anglican Church
Society represent (or are supposed to represent)
more than 140,000 churchmen, how many Free-
thinkers do the 1400 supporters of the Liberal
represent ?” We anxiously await what Saint
Cow per has to offer by way of solution to this
riddle.
The Trinity is no more. It has at length
in this 19th century evolved into the Holy Quar-
tette I For, at the late “Hallelujah Wedding” in
Melbourne ,the other day thus spake the inspired
Harmy man:—“ In the name of God, the Father,
the Son, the Holy Ghost, and the Salvation Army,
I here declare you man and wife.” And yet
orthodoxy shuts its eyes with horror at the alleged
blasphemy of itinerant lecturers: —
Farewell, long-sacred Trinity,
Your three-fold sun has set,
Another new Divinity
Makes up a full quartette.
For now at last the Harmy of Salvation,
As the fourth God, takes up its august station.
We are beginning to think the Freneh are
a poor lot. A Parisian physiologist recently stated
that the condition known as “dead-drunk” is
reached where there is a proportion of one part of
alcohol to 195 parts of blood. This is childish. We
have known men able to preach good sermons,
when they were afraid to light the gas in the room
for fear of exploding, and through whose veins
ran more rum than blood. And they were con-
sidered temperate men. This, of course, was in
the country. There it was considered nothing. If
to have only one part of alcohol to 195 of blood is
to be dead drunk, then we have known mei who
were not only dead drunk, but must have been
alcoholic corpses lor 2000 years. However, this is a
young and progressive country.
In an extraordinary case just investigated
before Lord Penzance, says the World, it is
found that a Church of England clergyman was a
habitual drunkard, was accused of every form of
seduction, including incest, was on trial for
bigamy, had served five years’ penal servitude,
and yet occupied a pulpit, and had acquired a
great local reputation for evangelical fervour,
when he again came to grief. The peculiarity was
that he had apparently no difficulty whatever in
getting employed, and three months after release
on,|a; ticket-of-leave, was installed in a curacy.
Weil may the World, on this, remark:—“The
social, educational, and moral qualifications of the
Anglican priesthood are not improving. Where
one clerical scandal occurred a decade since, half
a dozen occur now: the priesthood is rapidly be-
coming an asylum for those who have neither the
brains nor the enterprise to succeed in any other
walk in life.”
Fatuous futilities—a fine phrase this!—is
what a London paper calls the proceedings of
church congresses at home. It seems to forget
that clergymen grow fat on being fatuous. But
this by the way. At a late congress, however, the
president (Dr. Fairbairn) said some things which,
if futile, were certainly not fatuous. He openly
admitted that the “choicest spirits” of the age
were no longer on the side of Christianity, and
that the masses of the people were either “in-
different, or opposed to it.” The blame of this he
lad at the doors of the clergy. Much the clergy
care. The only thing that causes a revival of zeal
among them is the effect that infidelity has upon
the plate. Then, even Calvin could not be bitterer
than they are. Then, all of a sudden, they become
troubled iu spirit because of souls being lost.
Then their enthusiasm is to that of the apostles as
fire to water. Of course. We are all like that.
If we were running a church instead of a paper,
we should be just the same. The feeling is uni-
versal. It is human. It is divine.
It would take close on half a million of
money to complete ail the churches at present in
course of erection in Melbourne and its suburbs.
On Sunday, the 9th inst., the stone of another one
was laid, in Hotham, by ArchbishopGoold,assisted
by a large circle of dignitaries. The admission fee
was 5s., and 500c people were supposed to be
present, in the course of the ceremony a collec-
tion was taken up, and the proceeds were said to
amount to £750. It is estimated that the total cost
of the building will be £35,040. Head a little fur-
ther. The other day we drew attention to Dr.
Backhaus, the Dean of Sandhurst, who died worth
£75,000. Read a little further. A telegram was
forwarded from Sandhurst on Sunday, the 9th
inst. stating that an old man, Patrick Stewart, had
died there from starvation and exposure. This
telegram came as the Archbishop got into his
palace after scooping the pool at Hotham. Now,
you needn’t read any further, but just lay down
the paper and go into the backyard and howl as
much as you please. We have nothing to do with
you.
Thus Melbourne Punch, which cordially
hates everything Irish:—“The Roman Catholics
protest against an Englishman being appointed to
the Archbishopric of Sydney on the ground that it
is virtually an Irish Archdiocese. They are per-
fectly right. Not only in New South Wales, but
in Victoria, and all over Australia, the faithful
are Irish first and then Catholics. Just as they
suggested boycotting the Pope for trying to put
an end to murders in Ireland, so they would be
prepared t > boycott an Archbishop in Australia
who honestly tried to carry out the views of His
Holmes-, in Ireland, the priests connive and
encourage crimes and disorder, in spite of the
Pope’s directions to the contrary. The Australian
Irish don’t want an Archbishop out here who
would attempt to interfere so cruelly with the
liberties of the subject race. The Presbyterians
considered that one of the qualifications for the
office of theological professor was that the man
who held it should be able to fight well, and the
Australian Irish appear to think that their Pri-
mate should be able to tache them how to leather
the Saxons, and keep their childer from being pol-
luted by being brought into contact in school wid
the childer of Prodestans.”
A new poet, Lewis Morris, has begun to
attract attention in England, by % erses iraught
with vigorous thought and stamped with the
signet of the present age. Here are some of his
verses : —
“ And wherefore to fatigue the Eternal ear
With those incessant hymns of barren praise ?
Does not a sweeter sound go up to Him
From well-spent toilsome days
“ And natural life refined by honest lo e,
And sweet unselfish liturgies of home—
The scheme of being, worked out by duteous
souls,
Careless of what may come?
“ What need has He of praise ? The flowers, the
woods.
The wiuds, the seas, the plains, the mountains,
praise
Their Maker with a grander litany
Than our poor voices raise.
The conclusion, full of faith and hope, is thus
stated—
“ o life I O death 1 O faithful wandering soul I
O riddle of being, too hard to understand 1
These are Thy dreadful secrets. Lord, and we
The creatures of Thy hand.
“ o wells of consciousness, too deep for thought,
These are Thy dwelling, awful uoru bivine;
Thine are we still, the creatures of Thy hand,
Living and dying, Thine.” '
The last link has been added to the chain
of plausible hypocrisy which succeeded in forcing
the goat Strong to depart from the flock of timid
sheep and saintly rams constituting the Presby-
terian body in Melbourne. This last link is the
most corroded of all, showing as It does the shab-
biness to which men will stoop, and the mean
selfishness which will shape their actions while
impudently calling themselves followers of Him
who had net where to lay His head. For twenty
years the Reverends Mercer and M‘Cay held
interim-professorships, at screws something better
than a hodman’s but not so good as a blacksmith’s.
They were zealous and capable, and were as justi-
fied in expecting the real professorships, when
established, as Wales in looking for the throne
w hen his mother retires. But they were tardy in
joining the pack which had marked Strong for
its quarry, and their yelps were lost when the two
parsons put their noses to the ground and bayed
out “I’ve found.” So, when Strong was doubled
up, and the Presbyterian professorships were duly
established at six and eight hundred a year, the
two parsons in question called on M’Cay and
Mercer, to whom the billets in all honour should
have fallen—spoke to them of “ heart-searchings,”
the “ finger of Providence,” the beauty of lowli-
ness and humility, and then returned home to
send circulars to the fathers of the Assembly to
request for themselves their “ vote and interest ”
for the vacant posts. Thus, during the best years
of their lives, highly-cultivated men perform
onerous duties for the wage of an upper servant,
buoyed up with the promise of favours to come.
The favours come, but—not to them. They come
to those who are making the very name of Pres-
byterianism, and even or Christianity, stink in the
popular nostrils. or callous indecency, this last
illustration of Presbyterianism is furlongs ahead
of anything Chuzzlewit and Tapley experienced
among Yankee land-sharks.
At this particular season of the year, the
blessed Christmas tide, it is particularly refreshing
to our souls to know that in the Western districts
of this colony all is spiritually well with the flocks
over whom the Right Reverend Father, Sam
Marsden, with benignant sway, wields the
Anglican crook. That all is spiritually well in
those occidental latitudes we are convinced, since,
were it not so, weare confident that such holy men
as the Bishop aforesaid, his Venerable Archdeacon,
and his Very Reverend Dean, would never, never
have allowed themselves the relaxation of a free
fight in the shape of a triangular duel on the ques-
tion, who was the greater ?—the Archdeacon or
the Dean. The enemy can’t be coming in like a
flood when the general and his lieutenants are
mutually wrangling as to which of the two latter
is entitled to take precedence of the other, and
justified in wearing more and nobbier buttons c n
his M. B. coat, more and eleganter frills on his
gaiters, or a bigger and more imposing cock on his
shovel. Mr. Dean says he would be a “mons-
trosity” were he not ex-offlcio, next in rank to the
Bishop. Mr. Archdeacon says that Mr. Dean is
only Dean of All Saints’ Cathedral, and not Dean
of Bathurst. His Lordship talks of the invasion of
his rights if his view of the matter be not taken.
And so on. In ecclesiastical strictness, the Arch-
deacon is probably right. But in Christian strict-
ness—or further, in Christ-like strictness—who are
most likely to be right, the hierarchical squabblers
for precedence, or those who are yearning for a
time when recollections of shovels and gaiters and
other phylacteries shall be nought but fond
memories indulged in by a few female octoge-
narians ? The Nazarene, in whose name these holy
men of Bathurst are quarrelling about place and
Erecodence, once on a time remarked that those of
is followers who wrangled about who should be
first didn’t belong to his people. And that’s just
what we think.
The self-assertive “bit of blue” with
which so many people are assuming a virtue,
though they have it not, seems likely to be super-
seded by a new “ order ” very soon. At a Church
Congress, recently held at Reading (Eng.), Admiral
Ryder delivered himself of the unctuous sugges-
tion that “very excellent persons” should go
about adorned with a piece of white ribbon, in sign
of “moral purity.” Splendid idea I So practical
and nice. We trust to find it introduced among
Australians without delay. One glance at a man’s
coat will enable us to “spot a wrong ’un,” whereas
we pure people will be able to let our light shine
before men by placing a small piece of “ white ”
in our modest button-holes. We shall be disap-
pointed-much disappointed—in humanity if the
drapers don’t do a real roaring trade. Tnne up, o
lyre I—
Thb purity badge.
We’re forced to admit that we’ve been, hitherto.
Most sorely perplexed in our mind
To tell it our friends were deceitful or true
(They’re seldom the latter, we And).
Appearance, you know, is so apt to deceive;
The man who looks honest and frank
Is often (experience has made us believe)
The first to “ break into a bank.”
While others we’ve viewed with the deepest dis-
trust
Have clearly our judgment belied.
And proved themselves very straightforward and
just
Whenever their metal was tried.
And thus we’ve been vexed by a harassing doubt
Of each boon companion; in brief.
We’ve made ic our L asiness to ferret about,
And see if he wasn’t a thief.
But now we can put dark suspicion away
(How jolly that is, to be sure I)
And see at a glance, in the readiest way,
The men who are moral and pure.
The chance of mistakes is absurdly remote—
Nay, more, ’tis impossible quite;
For such as are holy will wear in the coat
A ribbon—its colour is white.
How nice it will be, when we’re walking abroad,
A piece of white ribbon to sport I
’Twill show to the world we belong to the Lord,
And are moral in conduct and thought.
But, ohl how misleading, how very unfair.
How shocking and sad, to be sure.
Should people presume that white ribbon to 'wear
Who neither are moral nor pure.
Mr, Check Hong Cheong appeared at the
last meeting of the Melbourne Presbytery as a
commissioner from the Fitzroy congregation. He
expressed the opinion that a vast field for mission-
ary enterprise existed in Fitzroy, which contained
more heathens than the New Hebrides. As the
conversion of the Island “niggers” is one of the
chief planks in the church’s platform, the Rev.
Mongolian’s statement was received with uncon-
cealed disfavour, and he sat down amid a sugges-
tive Silence-
Then spake a Christian Chinaman—
A thoughtful man was he—
“ My fathers’ idols I have left
Far, far beyond the sea.
I’ve wandered from my native land
Full twelve long years gone by,
To seek the Lord, obtain His grace
To teach me how to die.
“ I’ve heard the Rev’rend Chairman say
That Christians ne’er should rest
Till all the South Sea Islanders
Were numbered with the blest;
Till through the scattered coral isles
(Their number who can tell ?)
The natives kept the Sabbath, and
Defied the powers of Well,
“ Defied the powers of darkness—for,
Although our cause is right,
In warring ’gainst the bitt’rest foes,
’Tis best to be polite;
To carry on the war in words
No less sincere than civil—
None knows how soon his time may come
To interview the devii.
“ And so, though but a Chinaman,
I deem it sadly wrong
To ‘go for him,’ as brethren went
For Mr. Charley Strong;
To press him for his views upon
(The passage door here slammed)
The pow'r of grace, and chide him if
He said he’d see us damned.
“ Before among the distant isles
We send our priests to roam,
We first, methinks, should turn our thoughts
To savages at home.
My own opinion’s simply this—
Where Fitzroy city stands
More heathens could be counted than
In Polynesian lands.
“ Heathens with skins as white as yours
(Than darker heathens worse),
Who meet with blows the tears of wives,
Of children with a curse;
Who loaf by night, and drowse by day
In drunkenness and sloth;
Who only use the name of God
To emphasize an oath.”
The Chairman then the questions put—
For them to choose the bigver—
W hether to raise their brethren, or
Emancipate the “ nigger ? ”
The meeting straight resolved upon
Their duty clear and plain,
“ Peace and goodwill ” to spread among
The islands of the main.
Many easy-going Liberals wonder why
Paul Bert and his Radical following show such a
fleece determination to wrest education from the
hands of the clergy. 1 n a Contemporary Review
article Professor Salmon gives us a peep behind
the scenes, and we come away with the impression
that a good deal could be urged in support of the
“ bursting-up” policy of M. Bert and his confreres.
Salmon describes a clerical monthly publication
(censured, it is true, by the Archbishop of Paris),
which is ready with 200 proofs of the earth’s im-
moveability, and an equal number showing that
the sun is less than 15,000 leagues away. The idea
of our planet's spinning through space on its
annual journey is described as “ the most diabolical
that ever haunted the human brain.” The same
publication contains a lot of useful information
regarding Purgatory, and kindred subjects, on
which the popular encyclopaedias are culpably
silent. Among others, it tells how two priests
made a solemn compact for the survivor to say
mass for the one who first died. So when death
beckoned one away, the other ran to the
nearest church and said mass for the repose
of his comrade’s soul. Reaching home, he
found the spirit of his deceased friend there
before him. “How could you leave me,"
said the ghost, starting the conversation with
a sickly smile “a whole year in purgatory?”
“A year,” said his horrified friend. “ Why, man
ami, you’ve not been dead an hour, and your body
is not yet cold..” This is to show how the amuse-
ments of Purgatory make the time hang heavy on
one’s hands. Had the unfortunate pere found his
way Hadeswards the period would have appeared
at century. Then, again, this instructive journal
ells how St. Bernard was privil eged to stand two
whole days besides God’s judgment seat. During
that time 80,000 ghosts toed the line to hear their
sentences. Of these, 79,995 went to Hell, and the
odd five to Purgatory. There is an air of simple
veracity about these stories that carries conviction
to the hearts of the most sceptical, The average
of saved (•00625 per cent.) given by St. Bernard is a
good deal higher than we supposed, but may be
due to the fact that in his day civilization was in a
backward state, as the people were more attentive
to sermons th n they are now. At all events, the
discovery of this French magazine show that Bert
and his myrmidons know what they’re about.
* t •
The Newcastle correspondent of the S.M.
Herald wires: “A meeting of Protestants was
held at the Protestant Hall this (Thursday) even-
ing, for the purpose of getting the hah out of
debt. The meeting was very poorly attended.
Alderman J. Greet, J.P., was in the chair .” Cause
and effect, eh ?... When the New Anglican Bishop
takes charge ®f St Andrew’s, there will be a
grand chance for the clergyman who chants the
service in the present Ban p-tone.
• i t
The Rev. W. E. Hurndall wishes to abolish
sermons. He thinks it would be a great mercy to
th' se who have to compose them, and a still
greater mercy to those who have to listen to
them. And tne Bishop of Lichfield bag specially
requested the callow curates of his diocese not to
try and compose more than one sermon a week;
but if they require more, to read the better ones
written by some one else.. The Roman Catholics
of the Polish provice of Lublin are said to be
about to change their faith en masse. Cossack
whips are the cause.
“THE BULLETIN” PRIMER- LESSON II.


BRIEF MENTION.
Here is a little Christmas romance. A
country paper is in a fix over a snake story. A
tall girl with blue eyes, wavy hair, and a short
upper lip, was bitten on the finger, and, in her
flurry, put her head instead of her hand on the
fence, and hacked away at it till it fell on one side
of the rail, and she on the other. She then en-
deavoured to get up and hide It in the creek, but
had only strength left to grip it by the hair and
swing it In through the kitchen window, where it
knocked the new curate—who was gossiping with
her mother—into the hot ashes. Incapacitating him
for active service or sedentary pursuits. She now
lies in the hospital in a precarious condition, as
there appears to be some difficulty In getting a
head to fit her. The snake, of course, escaped;
and, altogether, there is an air of improbability in
the story that makes us caution our readers against
receiving It too freely.
A foal with four ears
was horn near Warrnam-
bool (Vic.), lately. It died.
This was a pity. What a
musical critic It would have
made I
“How can any
o ounthry he grate an’
prashperous,” asks Andy
Blank, “whin it’s full av
absintays that conthribute
nothin’ to the revenue ?”
Had Sydney Smith ex-
perienced a Sydney Sum-
mer, he’d not merely have
longed to take off his flesh
and sit in his bones for cool-
ness : he’d have scraped
out his marrow, with a view
of establishing a draught
right through.
In the Petersham
Council, not long ago, the
Mayor attempted to silence
a Milesian alderman, by
quoting the Municipalities’
Act. “ Oi don’t wahnt yer
Myoonicipali ties’ Akht,”
was the Hibernian gentle-
man’s reply—“ let’s see
fwhat the Akht of Parrla-
ment sez ahowht it 1”
Up Bummerbumba-
long way, the other day,
two drunks were dealt with
by the local bench—said
bench consisting of a beak,
in the interests of whose
health, not so many years
ago, a prohibition order was
obtained by hia relatives.
When sober this worthy
magistrate Is death on
swipers I
We are informed that
the policeman who recently
stepped into the vacancy
caused by the death of the
late Captain Zouch, has
gained a reputation for
martinetlsm by fining a
private “ trap ” five bob for
attending church. We hold
with the Superintendent.
From even clerical error,
the constabulary should be
preserved.
More joy 1 And from
a cat this time. It gave
birth (parish Eagle Hawk,
Vic.) to a kitten “ having in
its head five fully developed
mouths, and when one
moved the other four did
likewise.” They should
have called the first mouth
M’Elhone, and the others
the Opposition orators
generally. Anyhow, this
will be a devil of a cat to
get on a roof, when it grows
up.
That relict of the
dark ages, the triangle and
other flogging apparatus, is
now being erected at
Parkes. The local paper
sagely idvises parents to
visit the locale of this pleas-
ing instrument with their
families, and point out the
possible consequences of
wrong-doing. Rather, we
should say, of a step back In
to barbarism—of a relapse
into the spirit of the times
when, as at Port Arthur
in the old Vandemonian
days, to the north was the
hangman, to the south the
flogger, to the east the
bloodhound and to the
west the shark. A lot of
our rulers are but murder-
ers with opportunities.
The Fijian correspondent of the 8.M
Herald is a satiric dog, teste this par.:—“ A neat
little book, written in admirable Fijian, has arrived
in the colony for the native reading public. It is
by the Rev. L. Fison, M.A., and is called ‘A His-
tory of Daniel and Esther.’ It furnishes the cream
of ancient and modern researches into the times
of the Persian and the Babylonian monarchies,
and is for the Fijian a condensed essence of
Xenophon and Herodotus, Prideaux and Rawlin-
son, to say nothing of the Jewish canon.” T) o
Fijian should be happy with a condensed essence
of Xenophon, Herodotus, Prideaux. Rawliuson,
and the Jewish canonln his pi ssession: yet, we’re
deucedly mistaken if he wouldn’t rather own a
little work containing the cream of Holyweil-
itreet literature. We once offered a very aro-
matic and (for Polynesia) cultured Fijian the
ohoice between taking, as a gift, a very neatly
bound copy of " Schlogundteuffel on the Greek
jParticle,” and a soda-water bottle full of rum,
w.9 regret to say, be took tbs latter,
ON A JUDGE.
There is a Judge—don’t think that rude ’ll
Be anything we write of him—
Who, from his wig outpeeping prim,
Looks very like a pensive poodle.
His sentences, like worms, go creeping:
They make the weary lawyers swear,
’lhe heavy jurors heavier.
And even set himself a-sleeplng.
This is the Judge we’d like to come up
For judgment to on Judgment Day;
We’d ne’er he damned then, for (perfay!),
He'd take eternity to sum up !
All lovers of “cultchaw” will be shocked
to hear of a calamity which has befallen Mel-
bourne. A gentleman, writing to the A rods,
almost melts us to tears by his description of the
“ heathenish” treatment to which one of the
pictures iu the National Gallery has been subjected
by the picture-cleaner. But let us quote the
writer ;—“It has been cruelly used. Oh, most
cruelly! For pity’s sake, stay any more such
cleaning! I doubt if Melbourne holds any man
within its hounds competent to undertake pro-
perly and skilfully that work. What remedy
have wo for the fatal error we ha v<* ma le in regard
to that noble picture ? I cannot tell, unless it be
that we should saul it home to him who painted
it, and ask him to try, if possible now, to reatoie
to it once again those most delicate finished glaz-
ings which this accursed cleaning has quite
removed, so that he might restore to this, his fine
picture, the warm mellow glow that once hung
over it, and gave to that picture such a poetic
ch .rm and wondrous atmospheric truth.” How
sad it is to think thtt those “delicate glazings’
and “atmospheric truth” are possibly lost to Mel-
bourne forever! Yet, much as we sympathise with
the {esthetic sentiments of this gentleman, we
cannot but consider him somewhat hard upon the
“heathenish” picture-cleaner in the concluding
paragraph of his letter—” It was an evil day for
art, and art students, when that beautiful poem in
colour fell into the cleaner’s hands. We then
truly cast a beautiful pearl to the swine.” The
poor picture-cleaner scarcely ought to have been
stigmatised as a swine —not even by Oscar Wilde
himself.
Shortly after the chimes had been hung in
the Christ Church (N.Z.) Cathedral, the Dean was
walking with a friend, who was slightly deaf.
Said the Dean: “There’s heavenly music in those
beilsi ” Said hia deaf friend: “I beg your pardon.”
The D. (louder this time); There’s heavenly music
in those bells! ” D.F. (placing his hand behind his
•ar): “What do you say?” The D. (this time
almost shrieking into D.F.’s ear): “I say there’s
heavenly music in those belisl” D.F. (quite put
out at not hearing what the Dean says : “ Con-
found those cursed bells I I can’t hear what you
say for them! ”
Some names of societies now flourishing in
England:—The Ancient Order of Comical Fellows,
the Order of Ancient Romans, of Peaceful Doves,
of Total Abstinent Sons of the Phoenix, of Golden
Fleeces, and of Free Gardeners. This is a mad
world. It is our firm impression that the last sane
man died two hundred years ago.
“ Hi, Doo. , you know King Kala-
kaua, who is coming out here ? ” “ Know him—I
should guess I do! The darned old dog I he owes
me seven pounds for a billiard score. When he
comes out here 1 11 break his blanky black skull
for him.” Fact.
A w(h)ine and spirit merchant—Mr. Milner
Stephens.
In the Nyngan district, the barmen, who
are all gentlemen of the highest standing, wear
towels slung round their necks for the following
purposes:—
1. Wiping perspiration olf barman’s forehead.
3. Killing flies.
3. Scrubbing the counter.
4. Dusting said barman’s boots.
5. Cleaning the glasses with.
Only a skeleton. You have perhaps seen
some of the Sydney Punch humourists. If so,
you need not be afraid. This particular skeleton
was somewhat different to those, however. They
are mostly found hanging to a lamp-post-it was
found hanging to a tree. Six months ago, ortherc-
abouts, it had been a sawyer. The sawyer went
oaa spree at Bourke, and then wandered out cf
the town into the bush. Here he got lost, and
“the constable who discos er,.d the body believed
deceased had hanged himself while suffering from
thirst.” Very likely, indeed. But what we
oau t understand is that he was supposed to be
heading for water when he committed suicide.
P i ,.a s this was a sign of aberration of intellect.
Near the skeleton was a regatta shirt, tied to the
limb of a tree. The hallucination of this poor
sawyer had evidently carried him so far that,
though he couldn’t find enough water to drink,
yet he thought he had discovered sufficient to go
yichtlmrin. Poor fellow 1 He was another victim
r > the Apollyon of alcohol. It makes us shudder
to thin k of these things. We will go out and take
a drink.
Some of the Salvation-
ists are terribly absent-
minded. One, for instance,
came from Ballarat to Mel-
bourne, and took lodgings
in the house cf a widow at
Carlton, and after leading
his landlady’s daughter to
the Lord (Salvation Army
meetings—same thing), led
her to the altar. But this
foolish young Cnristian had
quite lorgotten the circum-
siance ol having left a wile
behind in Ballarat, and now
he is paying the penalty of
his thoughtlessness in gaol.
Three tiny waifs ap-
peared before Mr. Coil
(Mel.), a few days ago, to
explain why they spent 140
hours a week in the streets.
Their mothers also attend-
ed, and assured his Wor-
ship that their offspring
were a cross between lambs
and doves, knew nothing of
hop-scotch, and could be
trusted to mind an apple-
woman’s stall for a week
without being compelled to
whistle. One said that if
her little Temmy (aged 3,
standing on his tip-toes in
the dock, wondering what
it all meant) had gone astray
it was through the news-
papers. Ho took to trading
in penny evening journals
some weeks before, and
now he could curse and
swear, and lie and steal,
just as well as if he went to
Sunday School and wore a
Band of Hope medal.
As a young wife, al-
though assured of her hus-
band’s love, is never tired
of hearing him tell his
affection, so a young
country or city never
wearies of hearing itself
praised. Still, it is not nice
to get it laid on with a
trowel, and if lord Rose-
bery would only run a
thread of naked truth
through the warp of his
next after- dinner pauegy rio
there’s no knowing how
much good he may do. At
Ballarat, the other day, he
tola them what phenomenal
people they were, how un-
paralleled their prosperity—
their women how iair. It
is only right that when he
meanders to Bendigo he
leave off the complimen-
tary ticket and get down at
once to the bed-rock of
sober fact. Then wouid
he say, “You Ueudigonians
are an odd people, with the
most contradictory traits.
To-day you are charitable,
to-morrow mean. The chink
of gold is music in your
ears, and so you bowed low
before a Rev. Doctor who
was a notorious miser—
who went into the presence
of his Maker with the cry
for “more money” on his
palsied lips. An uncultured
cheesemonger you plat e in
the presidcntal chair of a
“scientific ” society, and at
your council table a book-
maker whom, the other
day, I saw with a tin badge
ou his arm bawling out the
odds on the race-course.
Yis; you are an odd
pr or le.”
One of the mor t alluring things we know
of is to hear Judge Wilkinson sum up. There is
music in it. Made low and soft and rhythmic,
like that of the ADoliaa harp. One day he caught
a Juror fast asleep in the middle of his charge to
hj jury. “ Y u isleep, sir,” cried Mr. Wilkin-
son. “No, no, your Honor,” cried the man,
waking with a ; “ I’ve heard every word.
Vour Honor said- ‘ Gentlemen, you have heard
r 6 evidence <-f f.ue various witnesses, and it is lor
y hi to decide upon the guilt or innocence oi the
prisoners.’ “I beg your pardon,” returned His
Honor, mildly.
At Coonamble, Ah Ping’s child stole; so
the Celestial tied the kid s thumb to the verandah,
and left him there, his toes just touching the
ground. For this he got four months, or £10, in
spite of his assertion that it was the Chinese
method in similiar cases. This is why there are
no larrikins in China. Here a man gets four
months for cruelty iu endeavouring to save Ids
boytrom larmiuism; and by and bye, when the
bog grows up, he is seut to the '‘triangles” by the
same authorities for being a rowdy. y
Caught Napping.


“Gilder,' the tar,”
TEMPORARY PREMISES:
110 King.street, Sydney.
GUNPLER, THE
CATERER”
“ GUNPLER THE
CATERER’S”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S ”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
Has decided to open In Syd-
ney, but premises such as he
desires are not now available.
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
Name is a household word,
and his desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who may rest assured that
the care and attention which
has made ‘‘Gunsler the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring colony
will be devoted to any and
every undertaking he may
enter into.
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-
c oks is the most complete of
its character in the colonies
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in such
style and at such modetate
prices as has never been at-
tempted in this city.
Has apractical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will do his best
to deserve it.
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, for the
Christmas and New Year
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is confident they will
meet with universal approval
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
Make a special [effort for the
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which he is
sole Agent in Australia.
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normanby,
and V.R. Club.
Is the leading Australian
Caterer.
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands.
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
CHOOSE YOUR PIANO
AT
CHARLES HUENERBEIN’S
178 Pitt Street.
best;instruments I CHEAPEST PRICES !
The Treasury, New South Wales.
37th November, 1883.
TO ENGINEERS AND CONTRATOES.
Construction of Elevated Cable Tramway
TENDERS will be received at the Treasury
until noon of THURSDAY, the 37th of
December, from persons willing to contract for the
construction of a Cable Tramway, at Spring Cove,
Quarantine Station, North Head, in accordance
with plans and specifications, and under general
conditions to be seen at the Treasury on and after
the 7th proximo.
The route of the proposed Tramway wdl be
pointed out by the Officer in Charge of the Quar-
antine Station.
Each tender must be accompanied by a Treasury
receipt, acknowledging the deposit of £300, to bo
held at the Treasury as security for the due per-
formance of the Contract.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender for
Tramway at Quarantine Station ,
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
Christmas Novelties !
EX “LIGURIA.”
LLOYD & HARBOROW, 470 George-St., op. Markets.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Gloves ... 470 George-street.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Hosiery ... Opposite Markets.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Boots ... 470 George-street.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Laces ... Opposite Markets.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Eichus ... 470 George-street.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Sunshades... Opposite Markets.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Bans ... 470 George-street.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Perfumery ... Opposite Markets.
Lloyd and Harborow’s Bags, &c. ... 470 George-street.
mf* The Choicest collection of Christmas Cards in Sydney.
N.B.—THE NEW SHOP, OPPOSITE MARKETS, 470 GEORGE-STREET.
CHINA & GLASS AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
BROKEN SERVICES MATCHED, and made up complete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Lent on Hire.
T. sklTH,
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
260 Pitt Street,
Corner of Royal Arcade, Sydney.
The Old man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The old man, when the sun began to set,
And all the air from lang’rous swoons to rise,
Shot out his legs, one after one, swung out
His arms, one after one, and, climbing, said:
“ I will ascend this mount, and sit me down
Upon the ledge that sees the sun the first,
And sees the sun the last in all the town.”
Down set the sun. Down sat the wise old man.
Winds found the ledge, and improvised a harp
With which to serenade the setting sun.
And mount and sun replied by looks that sang,
And all was happy on the summer night.
And, as the old man saw how these were thus,
And how to sweetness sweetness will respond,
And how to meekness meekness will reply.
And how from Love the parent, Love the child
Will bud and blossom, and how Peace will grow
Up round the heart that keeps a throne for Peace
He said, “ Ah, ah, why is it men will dream
That through tbe portal of harsh words will come
The angel-form of Joy ? Ah, fatal dream;
Ah, dream that lights the dreamer on to dreams,
And, dreaming, downward into cells of Hate!
Now I can feel it; in my soul it sings
That nothing happens that should sting the mind’
Among the air of the domestic hearth.
To belch and bellow out its bitterness
Upon the ears of those that should be loved!
For what is Reason, if it will not speak,
And tell the tale dumb Chance must leave untold,
Of how the simple accident befel
That set the husband swearing at the wife,
And set the wife about the husband’s ears,
And set the slippers Hying round the room ?”
The winds that found the ledge lay back and sang,
“ Ah, old man, old man, what you say is true!”
The old man then stood up, and looking round
To where the moon was rising, east-by-nor’,
Exclaimed, “ Yes, I’ll go down and make it up.
I left my wife this eve with maddened thoughts,
Because a little thing had happened wrong.
I’ll now go down and make it up with her.”
The winds that held their backs against the ledge
Sang sweetly, “ Oh, go down and make it up!”
The old man then, in darkness, but in peace,
Shot out his legs, one after one, and made a line
As straight as old maid’s on her wedding morn,
Down, down the mount, and onwards to his home.
He found it silent. Then he sai3, “ I’ll climb
The stairs, and kiss my angry words away!”
Up climbed he; but, when half-way up, his heel
Pressed on a bit of Windsor soap his wife
Had laid, by accident, behind, and down
The old man fell with all his weight of years;
And ev’ry member cursed in its own way,
And over all, and rising to the roof.
And piercing through the windows, loud and harsh,
His tongue unravelled angry screams; and when
His wife laughed, saying, “ Him again!
Old Badger, something else has wakened him!”
He sat up straight, and cursed his eyebrows off.
A little bit of Windsor soap had killed
The virtue, born of winds upon the mount.
Sydney is crushed —that is, if what M.
Charles Blanc says, be true. What does he say ?
He says that “ nothing has more chance ot lasting
success than ignorance and absurdity.’ At this
rate the present Municipal Council will last for-
ever.
WHY ?
“ Dance, Sal, for me and Bill and Jim
Have cracked a crib.” said he.
“ Why should I dance ?” she said to him—
Sussex-street Sal, said she.
“ Because,” he said, with humour grim,
“ ’Twax a co-robhorce! ”
The Parramatta Industrial Exhibition
Committee sent a local journalist two tickets of
admission tor the opening ceremony, one to ad-
mit “Mr. and Mrs. Blank.” the other to admit
“Mr. Blank and lady.” When Mrs. Blank had
glanced at the second card, she exclaimed to ner
husband with the bitter sweet of temunne acidity:
—“ So, they seem to know you 1”
Says the Echo “ Touting racehorses must
be a profitable profession. ‘ Blanket,’ who has
been so engaged tor the last 18 years, oied off bun-
day last, and his friends had to subscribe to defray
his funeral expenses.” Well, we dont know.
We fancy he was very lucky to have Inends to
pay for his burial. If, instead ot touting for i ace-
Iiorses, he had devoted his life to the enlighten-
ment of the public, he would probably have had
to go on living, or take the chances ot having no
grave at all.
WHENCE ?
Lo ! it is slimy, green and dank
Like dead lees of a lizard-tank.
Whence comes it? From what gloomy pit?
You shiver as you look at it.
In your carafe this water we rd
Waves to and fro a weedy beard.
Disease in each thick drop there lurks—
’Tis water from the Waterworks.
You shut your eyes—no use to shrink,
For you have nothing else to drink.
History, as we're so often saying, is con-
stantly repeating itself. When Sheridan was
the gutter by the myrmidons of the
]a\v, he hiccupped out in response to Who are
vou?” the sacred name of • W ilberiorce. Ihe
same sort of thing's being continually done in
Svdnev. Only the other dav, some scamp, charged
with violating the decalogue, gave in his name as
(whisper it not in the streets ot Monaro) Peter
Campbell” ; while another rascal, charged with
sneaking disrespectfully of the equator, of the
“ blooming beaks,” and of the Supreme Court in
Banco, had the boundless effrontery to assert that
his monniker was “James Martin. I Jus kind of
thing mu't be stamped out; and if Cohen would
only put his toot down, it would be.
A popular Government, elected by uni-
versal suffrage, tells the workmen of Collingwood
Carlton and Fitzroy that the best way to keep
Sunday when the g'lass is oyer 100“ is to go to
church and swelter in black clothes, or remain at
home and swelter iu wooden cottages a little
bigger than delf crates, but that it would be
wrong to spend the day picnicmg with their fami-
lies on the cool heights of Mac -don or in the shade
an Ferntree. But the popular Government does
not hesitate to charter a special train at the public
expense to carry some ot therm el res acre ss Vic-
toria on a buuday. “A work or necessity, you
will say. Fiddlestick ! Can any work be mere
necessary than giving to the man who works six
days iu the dusty, baking town, a chance one day
a week of seeing green fields, hearing fallrng
waters, and observing his youngsters tumbling in
the grass ?
We consider that all the pious dodges for
r a i r Peter s pence we have so far heai d of— afid
ti, many and ingenious—are capped by a
ric. In the Coyiunu, he advertises,
among 1 other “important specialities,” Ronun
Pills (Holy Roman, we suppose), which, besides for
biliousness and a hn<f of ■ h* > r thing®. ••• II avail
for “ paleness in ladies,” at 3s. a box. “ Children’s
Draught: It is an Mui*peusaoie meoicine Mrcm-
dren’s health, to be taken every three months
Please point out the age of the child on applying
for the above draught. Sold in bottles at Is. e d a.
each.” “ The Headache Destroyer: It is a iquid,
A iplied externally, which possesses the viriuv. of
driving out the heat and increasing me-
mory. Sold in bottles, 3s. and 5s. each.” “Tie
Marvelous Liquid Soap, for rheumatism, 3s.
and 5s.,” and the “ proceeds of sale fobs exclu-
t ively devoted to the advancement of the Catholic
Church in North Queensland.” If an advertise-
ment of this kind appeared in Italy or Spain, we
might laugh at the puerile superstition which
c°uld support such a system of religion as the
advertisement indicates. But here in Australia
we can only wonder whether there are enough
men, women, or children in the whole continent
sufficiently ignorant to buy enough of thes»
“ Important Specialities” t° ray for the insertion
of one s"ch advertisement for the “advancement
of the Catholic Cnurch in North Queensland.”
Some rash people might be inclined to say that
this combination of the two professions, theology
and medicine, represents the climax of quackery,
the apex of imposture.
Tennyson must hide his diminished head,
and Swinburne retire in dire confusion before our
new poet, the author of the Federation Song
which was sung at the Melbourne Town Hall the
other evening. Spenser is pretty, Shakspeare
has proved himself as possessed of some rather
original ideas, and Milton has turned out one or
two things passable enough—but, for sublimity of
sentiment, perfection of metre, and, above all,
for sound common sense, the Federation Song
“ takes the cake.” Here it is :—
ADVANCE AUSTRALIA.
Advance Australians! brave sons of liberty.
Your waving colours spread ’neath azure skies,
Write there the charter of Federal unity.
And, dauntless, bid a mighty nation rise.
( Chorus ):
Rise, Australia! the Federal Flag wave free.
All Austral mistress reigns o’er Southern sea.
Bright land of Wales, old Britain’s elder born,
Exultant stands, aud dark dissensions wane;
Victoria! the Queen of Austral's shores,
Clasps hand in hand, and joins the glad refrain.
(Chorus).
From Queensland’s coast to Tasman’s fruitful
proves,
Through Adelaide, shall float the joyful sound,
And Federation shall ring from shore to shore,
It’s echoes wakening all the isles around.
(Chorus).
That flag shall float o’er Guinea's tropic land.
Its colours freedom to Pacific Islands bring*,
And foes shall tremble before our gallant band,
When Britain’s sons united loudly sing,
(Chorus).
That last verse is a clincher : if Britain’s sons can
only be persuaded to “united loudly sing tins
blood-curdling production, there can be little
doubt that their “foes shall tremble.” TFe have
sung it to a tew of our most iron-constitutioned
acquaintances, and they have trembled awfully*
He was convicted, of false pretences up
South, and is now Ailing up the most useful chap-
ter of his chequered life hauling a sand-cart. But
it is not of this incident we would speak. It is of
how he made a month’s splutter in Mudopohs a
few years ago, after a short visit to oydney. Inis
is how it was. A. (our unhappy hero—now m gam)
and his companions B. and C. found themselvei
one day in Mudopolis, with high hopes and empty
stomachs. Many questions were pressing lor
solution. The most absorbing of all was how to
get a plate of Irish stew, and a pint of beer to
wash it down. B. and C. were men °t a pk}p n
of thought. When he said I have it, they
already felt the beer gurgling m their throats.
“ You, said he to B., “fail into the creek yondai,
where the water is not deep enough to lead to an
inquest: and you, C., jump in and save him. In
the meantime, I’ll go round as a presentation
hummer or fugleman, and work the matter up
(bless you I they all do it—magistrates, C.M.G. s,
members, and policemen, arid it’ll go hard if
we don’t raise enough for a big oitdk
and get back to Sydney n time tor Lord
TiOftus’s ball.’* Now, B. turned the scale at
three hundred pounds, while a hundred-w eight h d
lately shot C into an undertakers window, jam-
ming his head into a tin trumpet, on which a
new ter angel was practising “I will arise and go
unto my Father.” So when B. fell in and C. rushed
to his rescue, somehow, the idea of a barnacle on a
ship’s bottom suggested itselt. A. stumped the
town in support of the little un s pluck in tack-
ling such a monster, and the sum ot Ltd was pro-
raised. Oq the strength ot this, Bung, of the
corner public, gave unlimited credit. At last B. and
C. awoke one morning and remembered that 48
hours had gone by since they had seen A. The
tact was he had gone round, collected the money,
aud was in Sydney drinking iced champagne and
speaking of tbe number of sheep shorn on his
station last season. That an unappreciative Judge
should have brought talent like this down to stone-
breaking and porridge is surely a sigr ot the age s
degeneracy.
In New Zealand (never mind the town)
there was one John Smith—not Sydney, Claud,
Plantagenet, Coriolanus Smyth, bmythe, or
Bmytthe. mind you, but plain John smith who
had the character of being an easy-going slab of a
fellow, that could always be counted on not to
forget honours at whist, or compromise himself
with the strong woman of a travelling circus.
There is no man more easily sold than your flashly,
superficial chatterer, who thinks himself fly' to
every move, and no one more difficult to circum-
vent than the unassuming citizen, who just lies
low like “ Brer rabbit,” and never sbilts a piece
without haviug another behind it to back itup.
At last the town heard that John was about to
visit England—some said for a change, for a wife
others! Then the smart, men of the settlement,
the knowing, mirth-loving ones, determined to
make him a present an hour before he went
aboard They gave the jeweller orders lor a Ls.
aluminium watch,'to be presented by the Mayor,
and the back parlour of the public house rang
with laughter and song that night, as the con-
spirators imagined how poor John would claw the
a r ir when he discovered the trick. Buthcgotwiiii
of it in time, and the person who told him said that
Dm proper course to pursue would be to receive
tbe present, and theu luru round, show his know-
lo tge of the mean details, strike an attitude, crush
the trumpery thing with his heel, and scorch the
presenters with withering words.. This might
nave been G. V. Brooke’s or Mr. Irving s line, but
it didiTt suit John t milh. What did suit him was
this: He went to the jewellei—to whom he was
unknown—said that me committee bad decided
at t e last moment that as Smitu, alter all, was a
decent; honest fellow, it would be rather shabby
to gL e him such • “s''-'d-oir," ami resd\ed that
ibe watchmaker’s only SC-gumea artic.e should
ha sent iuote u of the aluminium, jt was sent,
the Mayor presented it with a neat speech, Jonn
received it cheerily aud respt nled modestly, the
subscribers were iu lits at tbe magnitude of the
i >ke and a wheezy tr< nibone struct up The girl
T left behind me.” When John’s vessel was split-
ting tbe South Pacific waves at in miles an hour,
the Mavor-thc chief mover in the aflair, and who
h id made himself lespcnsible for payment re-
ceived the jeweller’s Pill. He pulled through, but
the doctor said it was the worst case of homicidal
bypoctondriasishe’d met in his thirty years prac-
t.ce.
1 Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
Y T outh. —Many young persons, from 16 to
30 years of age, are greately annoyeu with rough-
ness of the face, the skin being covered with un-
sightly pimples, blotches, discolouration?, and
flesh worms. 'To all such, wcj advise the use ot
BRISTOL’S SARSAPARILLA AND FILLS,


s
T. LEON’S MAMMOTH CIRCUS
AND MENAGERIE.
Sole Proprietor M. Sr. Leon.
Advance Agent.... H. Mawdesly.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
diiectly opposite
Robertson’s Coach Factory.
THE SUCCESS THAT THIS COMPANY HAS
ACHIEVED in Sydney has never before been
equalled by any similar organization.
IT IS AN ASTONISHING FACT
That from last Saturday week, 15th December
to last Saturday, 22nd December,
OVER SIXTEEN THOUSAND (16,000) PEOPLE
have already visited this
MAMMOTH SHOW!
And the Receipts for that time have exceeded
ELEVEN HUNDRED POUNDS!
Doors open at T o’clock; overture at 8 precisely
Carriages may be ordered for 10.15 p.m.
Reserved Chairs 5s., Boxes 4s., Family Circle 2s
Pit Is. Free list suspended. A plan of Reserved
Chairs open at Mrs. Kirby’s, George-street.
J. MORGAN, Treasurer.
EVERY
MAN
SHOULD
Dr. Marstoij’s New jyork
Describing bow sufferer:.-, from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS, AND IMPOTENT
MEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
READ
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 ELIZABETH ST., S7DHI7.
F
INEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ARE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.S.A.
SEASON’S CARDS.-XMAS, NEW YE Alt,
FRIENDSHIP. BIRTHDAY, and NICE
PICTURES for Scrap Books, made up in packages,
at Is., 2s., 3s., and 4s., per dozen, good value. Xmas
and Birthday, good cards, 6d., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., 2s.,
2s. 6d., and 3s., each, post paid. GEORGE
WALLACE, 03, William-street.
JOHN P. COWLES,
Tea Inspector, Packer, & [Shipper,
FOOCHOW, CHINA.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price Ust on application.
™ S w^ ER F IlEAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being: of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
376 George-street, Sydney,
P R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
Maid, Wife, and Mother ;
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND,
CONTAINING matters of a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free >n
secure cover, for 2s. 6d., money order or N S W
stamps. Te be had only from the publisher,' ‘
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 785 G.P.O., Sydney.
xxxxx?ixxxxlxxxxxxlxxx^????i?i^^55iii$5^^5xxxxxxxxxx:
VWI ETHER
YOU
LIVE
SYDNEY
OK
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
rx
KX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
fx
X
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
THE COUNTRY,
YOU CAN’T BEAT
j VIVE |
'(188-1!
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
xx
XX
172a, 174, 174a, 176, 176a, 178a, 209, 211, PITT-STEET. xi
,j XX
EVERYTHING SOLD HERE SEND FOR PATTERNS. x X
xx
xx
XX
xx
xx
XX
xx
xx
XX
xx
li
XX
XX
DRAPERY EMPORIUM,
WE SEND GOODS AS FAR AS TENTERFIELD, BOURKE, AND ALBURY.
-j [ GIVB US A TRIAL ORDER. j VIVE I
_ _ _ j 1884!)
Address: Hordern Brothers,
211 Pitt-street (near King-street), Sydney.
NO CONNECTION WITH OUR COUSINS IN GEORGE-STREET.
STUFFING;
OR,
CHRISTMAS IN THE MODERN TIME.
We write this in the spirit of serenity born
of content. The fact is the man has cut off the gas.
He called the other morning, with confidence and
a little pocket-book, and wanted to despoil us.
It appeared from what he said—and he really
seemed well-informed on the subject—that the
party who had preceded us in the occupation of
an abode which is as elegant as iron railings and a
corrugated covering can make it, had in the haste
of his departure (by moonlight) forgotten to
“square up,” and presented us with a slip, upon
which there were several figures of a cabalistic
character. He then patted the only part of the
baby that was not enveloped in golden syrup, and
gazing hard at the drying-pan, waited with ap-
parent composure, our reply. This, though brim-
ming with affability, and liberally studded with
“ Merry Christmases,” was of such a nature, tech-
nically, as to cause him to retire to the verandah;
from which he, after a brief flirtation with the
meter, presently departed. Since this, we have
burned the midnight oil in the form of candles
with wicks of a bulbous nature; and it is not im-
possible that at no distant date we shall have
to either hire a corpse-light or charter a glow-
worm. It is extraordinary how singularly
we have suffered from the commercial im-
morality of the “person who preceded us.”
On one occasion, when we applied to a man for a
modest abode in a genteel suburb, he informed us
that, as the recent occupant had that day departed,
leaving only his compliments and the key, we
could go in. We went. It was a demure domicile,
situated convenient to an unassuming though
cleanly hostelrie, and (which was a great point)
immediately facing a Wesleyan chapel. Even
though his flight had been surreptitious, the
former tenant had so arranged as not to leave
much property behind him : two old slippers of
spectral aspect being discovered on the ground
floor,__and, upstairs, a gruesome bucket inhabited
by a large grey spider. The moment we hoisted
our blinds, confident in the possession of a modest
mobilier, then our troubles began. Distrust lurked
in the eye of the milkman, and a battle with the
baker was daily imminent. The obscure merchant
in the ham and herring line over the way treated
our handmaid with contumely, and bellicose
would be but to feebly describe the demeancui
of the butcher. Fierce females called continually
for jugs that had been borrowed, and an ancieni
man wept daily on our doorstep the loss of s
clock that had departed with the tenant. But i(
was only when the feelings towards us of the
neighbours assumed the aspect of boulders thal
we left in our turn ; it having dawned upon us
that, if not the respect, at least the esteem of the
local community was absent from that locale.
* • ♦
We are, however, unhappy. We have been
wrung by the hand and slapped on the back by
persons full of colonial beer and Christmas hilarity,
until we ache all over like a fireman who has
“greatly distinguished” himself by his bravery
at the burning of a distillery. We have had
“Merry Christmas I” bawled after us by men we
detest, and “ Happy New Year I” hiccupped in our
ears by persons whom we would cheerfully and
hurriedly execute. If we timidly enter a modest
hotel for a glass of alleged wine, flushed drinkers,
whose garments smell of “artistically coloured
clays," first offer beer, and, on our respectfully de-
clining-battle.
* * *
Even the children of our friends are de-
moralised, and shriek for gifts; and as we have
bestowed on every occasion a blue horse drawing
a green cart upon the offspring of our acquain-
tances, coolness has (consequent upon hasty calls
for the doctor having become necessary), in nearly
every case, supervened. Stern business men—of
whom better might be expected—have tried to
conjure up reminiscences of the Waits; and we
heard a broker—whom we had previously con-
sidered to be sane—cry out at a crowded street
corner, “ Ah, those were glorious times, w hen, in
the blazing light of a Yule log, you could slash at
a boar’s head with your dagger, and consume it
on a manchet, while the wassail bowl went merrily
round.” This lunatic was laden with tin trumpets
and mincemeat, frilled hams, jewellery, and bottles
of whisky, and his hat was so full of children’s
boots that it would hardly stop on his head. He was
wreathed in smiles and indifferent cigar-smoke,
and in the excitement of the season had forgotten
to shave. A merry miscreant who was with him
was sentimental on the subject of “ Bluff King
Hal;” and another puling personage—a mild-faced
auctioneer's clerk, who was known to terminate
his day’s duties regularly by washing his five
children—waxed eloquent on Dickens, but as he
pronounced the names all wrong and confused one
book with another, the effect of his Christmas
eulogiums was of a decidedly mixed character.
Dickens, by the way, was at his best when
writing of gleaming snow and roaring fires. All
his Christmas scenes are blood-quickening in their
hilarity; but even the cold without the Christmas
inspired him. Who can forget, for instance, that
scene of the old coaching-days in “Nicholas
Nickleby,” when, while the overturned vehicle
lay outside on a snow-drift, “ the good-tempered
gentleman” told the story of the “ Baron of Grogz-
wig ?” You will remember how a boy was set to
watch for the “ green chariot” of the “ fastidious
lady;” how a bowl of hot punch was discussed by
the company; and how “Mr. Squeers insinuated
himself into the warmest corner.” The baron
has always been a favourite of ours. Here is a bit
of him:—‘“I will!’ [marry], cried the baron,
suddenly, smiting the table with his right hand,
and twirling his moustache with hij left. ‘ Fill to
the Lady of Grogzwig.’ The four-and-twenty
Lincoln greens turned pale, with the exception of
their four-and-twenty noses, which were un-
changeable. ‘Isaid to the Lady of Grogzwig,.
repeated the Baron, looking round the board.
“ ‘ To the Lady of Grogzwig !’ shouted the Lincoln
greens; and down their four-and-twenty throats
went four-and-twenty imperial pints of such rare
old hock, that they smacked their eight-and-forty
lips, and winked again.’ ”
• • •
We have seen a lot of Christmas-days lately,
and their complexions have all been different. But
we have not discovered, up to this, that any par-
ticular one has been furiously merry. But Jmost
of them have had, it is true, their humorous sides.
A family Christmas, now, is an engaging festival.
You are awakened by sounds of a pitched battle
amongst the children, and, on going up to restore
order, discover that the eruption is caused by the
eldest-born experimenting upon the others with
his squirt—a cheerful and seasonable gift from a
relation with whom we have been on icy terms for
ten years. An examination of the brood leads to
the discovery that little Ann-Jane has been en-
dowed with a needle-case loaded with death by
the same personage; while Edward has an explo-
sive pistol, and Zuleika is sucking a box of paints.
Breakfast is a pandemonium, consequent on the
family rebelling against its bread and butter and
yelling for the dyspeptic contents of the larder.
Subsequently, the son and heir is spanked fcr
having g.ven his mother “check” on the subject
of the squirt, which, together with the other gifts,
have been confiscated by order. The contingent
(which declines to be pacified with furniture pam-
phlets and advertising almanacs) is then sent out
for a walk, uttering screams that rouse the whcle
neighbourhood, and cause a stout lady next door
—with whom we have had some unpleasantness
over the fence about an unreturned flat-iron—
to inform a retired militia hero in the same terrace
that “that brute was a beatin’ of the little dears
agin—Christmas-time, too:” a remark which causes
us—so steeped in ignominy do we feel—to “ offer ”
at our throat with a cheese-knife, to the great
entertainment of the baby (aged eighteen months
—a fine boy I), who evidently considers that the
whole thing has been got up solely for his amuse-
ment. An invitation to stir the pudding in
the copper does not unruflle our feelings to
any great extent (why should it ?); but we
are, of course, delighted a little while later to
discern that our writing materials and papers
have been “ put away somewhere,” in order that
the little dears may have a good romp, and play
blindman’s buff after dinner.
• • •
Dinner is a very hollow business, indeed.
Of course, Aunt Jane comes to it, and Uncle Ned
in a stiff buff waistcoat, and also the “ Old People.”
Uncle Ned is very hearty, indeed. He gives the
children silver (which causes another fight), and
“ God bless ” everyone. “ May this Christmas,” he
cries, spilling a glass of porter on the table-cloth
in his heartiness, “be the least unhappy in our
lives ” He meant “ happy,” of course, but no one
liked to correct him; and, for some while after, the
conversation was confined exclusively to the
the junior diners, who were all by this time
brilliantly painted with stuffing, and husky with
mince-pie and pudding. The old people, we con-
sidered, were but poor company. They talked to
one another about marrow-bones-and-cleavers,
and told us how they had seen an ox roasted whole
on the river Thames, in the reign, we think, of
Henry II.—or, perhaps, before. This was bad
enough, but on the old gentleman insisting on
singing in a quavering voice—
“ God rest you merry gentlemen,
May nothing you dismay.”
We became plunged into hopeless melancholy.
Shortly after this, a troupe of invited children
arrived to romp with our own; and a little later
we went out into a churchyard, and sat upon a
tombstone.
• • •
It is not so very long ago since we spent
Christmas Day in a boarding-house; and though
some years have certainly elapsed we can yet
smell the hair-oil with which the young men
anointed themselves in honour of the day. For
some time previous to the festive twenty-fifth,
two ducks had been purchased and chained up in
the yard, while a pair of spectral geese hoisted
their mud-cased heads, also, about.that confined
enclosure; and, from a nail behind the kitchen
door—where the “girl” kept her jacket—de-
pended a colonial ham, which frowned at you like
a burglar, and whose general appearance was sug-
gestive of a Gibraltar-like impregnability. The
geese enlivened the establishment, before they
were decapitated with a wood-axe, considerably.
They were, when they first arrived, as mildly-
mannered geese as ever smacked their bills over a
meal of mud; but their captivity demoralized
them. From mild they became morose, from
morose despairing, and from despairing warlike.
They got so fierce at last that they used to bark at
the boarders, and quarrelled so with the moon at
night that the landlady had not unfrequently to
go down three stories in the early morning and
beat them with a broom-handle.
* ♦ *
The great day at length arrived, and, pre-
cisely at one the lodgers were summoned by a
crumpet-gong t-s> the banquet. All the gentlemen
appeared determined to celebrate the occasion to
the utmost, at the expense of the landlady, and ail
the ladies tried to look as if they were not ner-
vously anxious to begin. There was no hilarity
whatever; no allusion to mistletoe; nothing said
about peace on earth and good will to men; no—a
steady, solid silence. Brows were bent, arms were
squared, and every lack lustre eye was fixed upon
the pewter covers. Something was missing, and
so solemn was the moment, so awful the pause,
that a gentleman in a pink tie, who was rather
powerfully impregnated with the odour of his
native ale, created quite a diversion by breathing
on the blade of his knife and brightening it on
the leg of his trousers. In a minute more the
applc-sauce appeared in a pudding-basin, and the
feast was at length disclosed. The geese, upon
which a further insult had been put by being
baked, were of a cloudy brown, and one, whose
legs had somehow broken loose, poked derision
at the company. The ducks were feeble
fowl, and had as many angles about them
as the fifth problem of the third book of
Euclid—or the 19th problem of the 17th book—we
can’t remember quite which, and we like to be
correct in these little matters; and our old friend
the ham, after boiling, reminded one of a sepia
drawing of some very common object by the sea
shore-a boulder that had been fearfully ill-used
by the elements for years. There was likewise, we
remember, an assertive dish of carrots; and the
potatoes had evidently formed, early in the morn-
ing, a sturdy resolution to appear in their own
Jackets—a determination which the whole culinary
staff of the establishment had evidently been
powerless to oorabate. The arrival of the pudding,
at a later stage, flickering feebly under the
influence of three-penny-worth of pale brandy,
was the signal for every boarder to first suck his
fork, and then surreptitiously wipe it on the table-
cloth—a proceeding which appeared to conjure up
neither surprise nor indignation in the breast of
the landlady. We saw the pudding cut, and hoisted
in a spoonful. Then, bowing to the silent masti-
cators, we pocketed a piece of bread, and went
away to eat it under the shadow of the dead-house.
♦ * ♦
We had a Christmas Day at sea once, but
the dinner was a bit delayed on that occasion,
owing to the captain having to bury the second
steward, who had died the day before. There was
nothing uproarious about that feast of the season
either, notwithstanding that some one, during the
dinner, made a ghastly joke about a private view
of the turkey, when plucked, having killed the
unfortunate servant.
* ♦
Where we shall pass our next Christmas
we cannot at present tell. Perhaps with a pasha
in a palace on the Bosphorus : perhaps with a
rat in a coal-hole.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Johncy M Intyre, theMaldon (Yio.)M.L.A.,
ht.s started home to get English capital for Vic-
torian mines. “Our mines are too payable to
necessitate foreign capital being utilised,” says a
N .S.W. country paper. “ King’s Tin and Brick-
wood” to the front—A Swiss witer suggests the
formation of a newspaper press museum, and
proposes to have amongst the exhibits The Dagger
of Vengeance, The Whip of Satire, The Last Straw,
etc. He seems to f.rget all about the Bible of
Barry and the Grammar of Alfred, let alone the
pigskin socks and tin hat of the Komisioner, At-
tractive additions would also be the Missal of
Sheridan and the ‘ Cadie” of Fergy The fol-
lowing startling advertisement recently appeared
in the Melbourne Age:—“ I.O.G.T.—An Oven-air
Meeting of the Richmond United Lodge will be held
to-night, at 8 o clock, in the Temperance Hall, Rich-
mond..The Nabandera Argus tells how the rabbit
starch party “ under Mr. W. J. Elworthy” recently
discovered live young rabbits “dead in a burrow
which had been fumigated with bisulphide of
carbon.” It would be interesting to get a return
showing how many men and what weight of
chemicals go to each rabbit destroyed under the
Act—“ Common Sense” asks: “Why should not
the Government Printer be required to make
such a report as will show the name of each
pamphlet, book, &c., he prints, by whose direction
he prints it, the number of copies, the cost, and
how disposed of ? Why should he not also be
required to submit another annual statement
showing the cost of printing, bookbinding, photo-
graphy, &c., done tor each department of the
public service ?” Why not, indeed V There’s one
objection, though, to the idea, and that is the
immense cost that the compiling, printing, etc., of
such a return would involve “J.T.M., in his
‘What to do in Cases of Accident,” etc., recom-
mends that in Instances of “apparent death
from drunkenness” you shou'u “raise the
head” and “loosen all tight clothing.” J.T.M.
is evidently a practical man The Gympie
Times, in a slightly mixed manner, (sug-
gestive of the Rum) talks of ‘a singular
phenomena.” — He only stole 67 umbrellas, and
yet he hadn’t one on him when he was arrested.
And though he took 67 dozen tics he had none on
in the dock. He didn’t affect style, didn't quote
the scriptures, or engage in silent prayer. Re-
manded for sentence The French Government
intend to allow each of the French Colonies not
represented in the Chamber of Deputies to nomi-
nate an Agent-General at Paris. The following
are the candidates for the Agent-Generalship of
New Caledonia:—“M. Dezarnaulds, Mayor of
Noumea, solicitor; M. Rentier de Granval, for-
merly editor of XIX.Siecle; M. Larade, president
of the Chamber of Commerce, and M. Moncelon
The Macleay Christopher remarks with pro-
found philosophical acumen : —“The newspaper
is to the public what the bellows blower is to the
organist-plenty of blow but no music; too pubi c
must supply that.” If the Macloay public can
only supply music to Kit’s blow, the future of the
Macleay Is assured. Deasr-ldedly sol ... “Berrima
coal!” is the shriek of the Goodchappies. The
W hittonites shriek “ Newcastle,” and both shrieks
are alleged to be pro b >no publico. Credat Judceus !
.... A |Haj market (Sydney) watchman fired three
tunes at a burglar. The first shot missed, the
I second hit the burglar in the same place, the third
made the masked gentleman drop his tools and
run. It was afterwards found that No. 3 had
flattened against a saw. Providence evidently
watches over the burglar. A bullet might go
through a Bible. But it never goes through a saw.*
The Crown Prosecutor of tbe Nothem Supreme
( ourt (Q.) is about to inquire into Air. Hartley
Price's action towards Mrs. Lees, the unfortunate
woman whose unjust imprisonment for debt
created so grave a scandal “ Confidence ” Sim-
mons and ditto Clarke have been sent up for two
and one stretch, respectively, for fraudulent! v
conspiring against one Lawler, a green Moss Valer 1
Simmons and Clarke worked a whisky lino “ on
the margin,” got over the edge, and are now
whistling “ Whisky in the Jug.”-Captain haj-
mond, late inspector of Stock at Wentworth,
makes out a pretty strong case against the folly of
(•overnment paying a high bonus for rabbit scalps.
So far as condemning that (as also the “scientific
gas”) scheme of bunny destruction is concerned we
entirely agree with him—The Minister of Mines
means at last —better late than never —to enforce
the ring-barking regulations; proved offenders to
be punished by the cancellation of their permits.
This step should have been taken months and
months ago. .. Sydney Licensing Court holds that
it nan only grant an extension of license to one
place; also, that publicans obtaining an extension
of license to one place may erect as many bars on
that one place as they choose Charles Win-
nicke’s central Australian expedition started I n m
‘Cawarrie” on the Warburton (lat. 38), traversed
country north to lat. 23. Long stages without
water. Camels behaved well. Two laige livers
and a range of hills discovciei. 40,000 sq. miles
mapped Government Medical Adviser Mac-
kellar does not counsel tne adoption of Veterinary
Surgeon Willows' tuberculosis- noeulation-rabba-
desiruction idea, on the ground that there's a total
want of positively accurate information as to
whether tuberculosis is or is not transmissible
from one animal to another.. A fellow rode into
Gundagai the other day and swore that a fearful
fire was ranging in some cultivation paddocks mar
Nangus. Several Guudugaigeese rode out post
haste the lu or 16 miles, only to find out that the
report was a canard. As Bailey calls the ” menua-
cious reporter’ an “egregious propagator if
unmitigated lies,” we much fear that he
himself was one of the dupes In Goul-
burn Valley (Vic.) female selectors stalion
themselves on the road to offer travellers work
If they were to try on that game under the Fos-
bery regime they’d stand a chance of being run in.
... .Governor of Victoria called in as visitorial deux
ex machina to settle the dispute between tbe
benate and Council of Melbourne University
Earthquakes shaking up Tasmania. Giblin suffer-
ing a recovery from effects of Sydney hospitality.


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA I’ LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’! favourite remedy. W# all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver m order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite ia
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true Invigorate r. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. T<
obviate aU these synotoms there ia no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABBAHAU'S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportloe oi
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered uver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by mag.c.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM &
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever *olu.
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiatiry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
Robert butcher
(Lata William Long 1 ),
%r WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
c o.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
T
|0 STAND THIS SEASON, at Duckenfleld,
near Morpeth.—The Thoroughbred Stallion
HENCHMAN
(late Friday), full brother to Robinson Crusoe, the
sire of Navigator, by Angler, out of Chrysolite,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
by Kelp e, out of Queen’s Head, by Yattendon,
out of Gazelle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner’s,
at Ten Guineas per mare.
Splendid paddocks, and every care taken of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility incurred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on 1st January, 1884. Mares not re-
moved on that date will be charged ten shillings
per week each up to date of removal.
JOHN BALES.
Duckenfleld. September ISth. 188*
rjIRB FOLLOWING
STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing Season at RICHMOND, where
Paddocks will be provided for Mares,
with every care and attention, but without re-
sponsibility
MAR1BYRN0NG
Subscription Full.
RAPID BAY ..
MOOKTHORPE
JULIAN A VENAL ,
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLERC ..
CHILDE HAROLD .
A few half-bred Mares will be taken to Beauclero
Each Horse will be limited to 15 of the public
at half-price.
H
mares.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN, Richmond.
Q.
L Y D E 8
E S
he following Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-class Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every care and attention, but
without responsibility
MUIR LAD,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
DAVIE,
Terms—8 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN.
Terms—S Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at six months old selling
at from 50 guineas to 100 guineas each.
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884.
ANDREW TOWN. Richmond.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MDOLTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract cf Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold £ very where, Price la. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
55
MAM
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—'This favourite Prana
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhere
CATTRLL A OO.. Sole Agents
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, certain, and speedy cure for Nervous
and General Debility, and all complaints that
spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion. Loss ox
Appetite, Liver and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By it* tonic and soothing effect*
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising element* it nourishes and gives vigour to
the * hole system. Price, 4s. fid. Sold everywhere
Solo Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTH PR?.
M.P.P . Pharmacists, 104 and 106 Market-street,
-ear Hyde Park, Sydney. N.B.—All imitations
idegah
✓.V.
mm
Mm
WB
I ml
mM
lit
Ufj';
mi
V
ft!
a»
IM
'V-
P)
i
m
IS
II i M mji
ilifll
ISmmm
f ■‘J/'VJ
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS? INSTRUMENT
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
drink of the army, navy, the club*, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no riva 1 ; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG * CO, Sydney.
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
roc
m
14 and 18 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have alw y« in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY.
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HA RD WARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
ANB
EARTHENWA HE,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER ano SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN ana CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T aA YEN’S
Sch°>oi>« 'nr* •. ueva.
c *1 V H nd SONS’
Kdinut) .a Pale ’ .e.
PAPERBANGINGS!
with
DADOES. BORDERS,
FRIEZES to ’".ttV.n,
NURSERi '' . ER8.
CEILING CENTRES.
FIGURES, SCENES, *0.
Imported by
Alexander Berth wick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-at.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead Oils, Paint*, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, <ke.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
"CJ xid.erta.lser,
84 HUNTER A PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
EUR
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
ISr THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Ago I
DESTINED TO WDPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The o y Tobacco cam Dining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Ulf Each PLUG is STAMPED with the wore
“ EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it
Tak no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Swell’s Tohcco Co., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENJ AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An o be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO
Registered according to Act of Parliament, u pro
toot tm. public against spurious and worthies*
mltatioua.
O^O-^-^TS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. U. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
ill, MACHINERY, ail Oil MB,
397 GEORGE STREET,
68 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
I ENGINES
Robey’i celebrated Portable Wind-
lag' and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed
r:
mss
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stooks always on band of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled 1 Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Kaddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had oa application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO
3S7 George Street, Sydney.


REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, but fqpl
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP HITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of tne numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will And a “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resident
of a miasmatic dist rict, barricade your
system against the scourge of ail coun-
tries —malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers —by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, er sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and cemfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JB500
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer 7
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doo-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
613, late 681, George-atreet, Sydney.
Gkntubmsm,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are out on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion In the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either In sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to flt the eorpulent as well .
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all ths
moat perfect satisfaction.
A single trial win suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
lam. Six,
Tourobedleut Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
’Rt GREAT CURB FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIuCSNiboS. LIVER COMPLAINT. WE A
NESS. Ac.
PRICE Si. M.
Prepared by A. O. KEBULK WHITE, Ciuon.
Ot ERSKINB STREET.
•wM tor W. M. to UU and all Ohmic*.
Your Xmas Wine Orders should he
booked early to insure delivery. Hookings and
Co., 143 Pitt-strcet *
Mr. DbCodrct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pltt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining business
in the Public Department undertaken Titles »
speciality. —Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOKJtHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, in-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congeale<
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for Arnold's’
and get it; spurious imitations are some t a. *
Offered.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Carpe.
On© little wisdom was his stock in trade,
And in the schedule of his broken life—
Au oblong sheet of blue, ruled foolscap, laid
Flat, open, to the universal court.
We read, from line to line, through child
and wife,
Through feud and peace, in wild high
sea and port,
The capital ou which he worked; and made
i’he sky a canopy he did not curse,
The dull rouud world a place to call a home,
The soft sweet love a thing to hold and
nurse.
One little wisdom was his stock in trade,
And on that capital he split the foam
That gathered ou the waters of the deep,
And held his face to heaven undismayed.
We read, “Ilaugh, fonf Itkiuk, 1 weep!”
Smith’s Fate.
Ah, I’ll drop just like a sonnet, and you may de-
pend upon it
That no genius will extend me to an epic, or com-
mend me
To the study of a bard with the sightless rolling
eye,
Who, like Homer, blind and begging, or, like
Milton, blind and pegging
At the commonplace of passion, longs to spread
himself and fashion
One of those heroic classes that will never never
die.
Ah, 'twill just be said I hurried into life one day,
and scurried
Through the colics and the sorrows of a multitude
of morrows,
With the potions and the lotions of a child you
might call Smith;
That I then rushed through my schooldays, and
then plunged into my fooldays,
Then was married and tinkettled, and then com-
fortably settled.
As the customary Smith might be among his kin
and kith.
Ah, I’ll drop just like a sonnet, and you may de-
pend upon it
That the epic bards will shun me, for my name is
—Smith?—itith!
An Awakening
We met in the moonlight, so pale and serene.
And stately she looked as a goddess;
’Twas Spring, and the foliage was verdant (that’s
green,
So it harmonised well with her bodice).
The moonrays that fell on her statue-like face
I envied (I really was smitten),
She spake not a word, but with singular grace
Walked away—and I felt my fate written.
We met in the morning, the very next day,
When the sun on her tresses shone brightly,
Revealing the tint of those tresses as gray—
There was something about her unsightly ;
And I felt that my love of the evening before
Was that of a verdant young fellow,
As I found on inspection, her eyelids were sore,
And her skin most uncommonly yellow.
An Elder’s Letter.
(Vide ARGUS, NOVEMBER 8TH.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sir, let me beg you to prevail
On Government to build a
New station (as I write I’m pale
With shame) I’m from St. Kilda—
I write to-day (November 6)
To show how very oddly
It chanced that I was forced to mix
With men who were not godly.
O, sir I insist without delay
Upon another station;
I’ve known such agony to-day,
And such humiliation!
I had to go up country, and
I iought the street called Spencer,
Where gathered Pleasure’s sinful band
In numbers ever denser.
I knew some strange thing was abroad.
They’d all their Sabbath clothes on;
But not a hymn of praise to God
The air around there rose on.
No prayerful sound of pious psalm,
But cries that strangely jar one,
Accustomed but to holy calm—
Such as “ten to one—bar one.”
Then I knew all thei~ souls were bound
To swell the black damnation
Of hell, and as they seethed round
Me at the railway station.
Boys pressed me close and begged me hard.
(That youth should be so vicious!)
To buy from them a racing card—
A thing I hold pernicious.
i And what made bitter tear-drops, shed
From grief, adown my face course,
Was—they believed not when I said
I did not seek the race-course.
I am an elder, and my path
Is pure and conscientious;
And (Heaven forgive me!) I felt wrath
When I was thought licentious.
As, ev’n the appearance I have shunned
Of wickedness and evil,
What wonder if I grew quite stunned
When these ho ts of the devil—
These willing fish in Satan's net —
Accosted me (O Ik avens,
I blush!) and strove to make me bet
Upon the odds and evens.
One, whose name I will gladly give,
Made me this worldly offer,
And yet another (as 1 live,
A sinful, shameless scoffer)
Called out to me —the very thought
Of which ev’n now I waver at—
To keep my hair intact, and not
Go “ plunging ” on the favourite.
Now, is it not a shameful case
To have even the suspicion
Of going out to see a race
While children of perdition
About me cling, while jeering looks
appear on worldly laces
As 1 am asked, “ Old man, what books
Did j ou make at the races ?”
So, sir, I beg you to exert
tour power, so that there may not
Be good men’s feeling this way hurt
Bv such as ki eel and pray not.
Let those who serve the Lord be set
Apait from those who cuss up
Hill and down dale, and let us get
A Pious Terminus up.
AN ELDEK.
Son g
Thou art fair, my love, as dawn is
When it blushes in the sky;
Thou art shy as any fawn is,
Though I never could tell why.
Thou art sweeter than the sweetest
Flower in all the meadow-lands—
Thou art neater than the neatest.
With thy deft and dainty hands.
Th ne eyes, love, like the seasons.
Sunny bright ot darkling, look
Sweet and fair for best ot reasons.
Far, my love, thou art the cook!
Says a Newcastle Salvationist: —“ If when
I go to Heaven I see anyone there that has not
come through the penitent form, I’ll ask God to
kick them out; and if he don’t. I’ll walk straight
out into Hell” 111
“ Marito ” Yes, another idol shattered—
another fond illusion gone bung. Illustrissimo
Signor Guglielmo Verdi has just acknowledged
to the Melbourne Court of Insolvency that his
real name is Bill Green. Please pass the prussic
acid. We will never smile again.
A well-meaning but diffuse gentleman
sends us four pages about a lady in a Waverley
tram cutting the Echo with a hair-pin. The item
is not a bit of use to us. Why couldn’t he send
the lady—or, at least, the hair-pin. That reminds
us, by the way, of K. J. Byron’s couplet:—
“ That hairpin givs that in those locks I see;
Thy hairpin mine, what hairpinness tor me!”
The police force is not anything like as
vigilant in Sydney as it is over in Auckland. A
constable i ■ that city saw a man climbing a veran-
dah-pole one night, a week or two ago. He sus-
pected the man to be a burglar, and climbed up
after him, with the result that he (the constable)
fell through a skylight and broke bis arm. The
burglar turned out to be a lodger who had been
locked out. We have nosympathv for that con-
stable. Now, if it had been another policeman he
saw, we could have understood his suspicion.
Perhaps the reason that a Sydney policeman
doesn’t interfere much with burglars'is that they
are mostly well connected, and also that he is
afraid of their ill-will when they get into Parlia-
ment.
Lord Coleridge’s extravagant eulogiums
on Matthew Arnold, whom he specially com-
mended to his American friends as “the most
distinguished Englishman living.” has not pre-
vented Arnold turning out somewhat of a frost in
New York. His first lecture was far from a
success, the inabilility of most of the audience to
hear his Inspired utterances causing- trequent
interruptions, until eventually a good many of
them cleared out. it may bo true enough that —
to quote Lord Coleridge—“Matthew Arnold, as
poet, thinker, writer, hsssoarcely any equal;” but
as a speaker, the New Yorkers think he has a
good deal to learn. Americans, somehow, don’t
always like their heroes and heroines found for
them, preferring, as in the case of Herbert
Spencer, to discover super-excellencies on their
own account. Some of the “butter” so freely
lavished upoh the latter distidguished gentleman
might have been dispensed with.
There is in Sydney a newspaper man who,
until recently, lived in Upper William-street,
where resides a butcher who, much to the annoy-
ance of several people in the neighbourhood, ran
a loud-voiced sausage-machine, which instrument
of torture began to speak with unvarying regu-
larity at 4 a m. A neighbouring chemist invoked
the law to restrain the matutinal chopping of the
calf-murderer’s meat-mill; but, as might hav«
been expected, the man of pills and boluses
was defeated. The vested interests of the
bourgeoisie dominate all things in Sydney.
And, haying won his suit, the victorious
pig-assassinator went on chopping—this time
with a machine that, when it started, mado the
wearied sleeper wake up with a palpitating heart,
and cold sweat running down his spine, and with
a curse on his lips for Cain, the first butcher, and
all his descendants unto the 99th generation.
Whereupon the scribe thought It good en mgh to
clear from William-street, and remove his tooth-
brush and box of paper-collars to Macquario-
street, opposite Parliament House. It was but
Jumping from the pot to the lire—abandoning
Scylla in favour of Charybdis. The William-
street sausage - machine was bad, M’Elhone
was worse. The sausage - machine trouble
only began at 4 a.ra. M*Bihone “spoke’
in the Assembly nightly (with the windows open)
on a motion for adjournment, and made moxe
noise while converting men’s and women’s charac-
ters into mince-meat than all the sausage-
machines in the city, all the dying oxen at the
abattoirs, all the pole-axed sheep from Cape
Otway to the Gulf country, all the stuck pigs in
Chicago, all the lost souls in Gehenna. A hot
night, eleven o’clock, and M’Elhone “speaking.”
A sweltering morning, at 5 o’clock, and the
Macquarie-street sausage-machine still grind-
ing on—still being fed with live cats—still
groaning and yowling and squealing and yelping
and bawling, as though the armless wraith of
Hicks Pasha had Jumped into the carcase of a
hydrophobiated blackfeliow and come to Msc-
nuarlo-street to yell for vengeance on the False
Prophet of the Soudan—as though a mad boar
were sharpening his tu*ks on a boulder ere he
started to root up all the corpses in the Necro-
polis— as though the saw-grinders ia X orkshire
were rasping the red-hot bones of the brass-bands-
men of the inferno, who blew the while trom their
cornopeans babbles of boiling fat dropped from
the bodies of Dives and Judas Iscariot—as though
the Upper Hunter Caliban had toppled over into
the Turkish-baths of the bottomless pit, and was
having his tongue shampooed by the Devil with a
red-hot brick.
A gentleman—for none out gentlemen
write to the Evening News (except Luscombe.
and he’s a nobleman feebly di guised as a patriot)
—complains of the neglected condition of Ken-
dall’s grave. He tells Alphed that there is only a
small wooden cross to mark the spot, and is
indignant at the public not rectifying matters by
erecting something tall ; though, in the hurry of
writing, he omits to state the amount (a large one,
d lubtless) that he himself is willing to subscribe
Well, we went to the Necropolis tne other day, and
meeting an affable-looking gentleman in a tall hat
and a lustrous coat, we said to him : “ Could you
show us Kendall’s grave?” Ho smiled an engag-
ing smile, and ruminatinirly rejoined ; “ Kendle
Kendle —he wasn’t an auctioneer, was he ?” “ No,”
we sail, timidly. ‘‘In the wholesale line, p’raps.
Look there,” he cried, pointing to a gorgeous
obelisk—“ there's a muniment. That’s awault,
that is.. There’s two on ’em in it.” “Were
they distinguished people ?” we mildly enquired,
trilling with the iron railing. “ Distinguished I
I should say so,” he replied, indignantly :
‘’they was large tanners, and made a heap of
money. There now,” he continued, “ look at
that. Marble, every hinch of it. Well-known
colonist, him.” “ Was he a literary man?’ we
enquired with diffidence. “ Lltery! Bah 1 ft was
put in the paper when he died that he was univer-
sally respected. He sold boots afore” —this due to
an inspiration—“ afore he was a partaker o’ glory.”
“ But where is Kendall buried,phase?” we faint’y
said. “What was he?” enquired the affable
gentleman. “A poet,” we replied. “Apoet I Ob,
never mind ’im ! Look at that beautiful stutter
there. There’s a worse somewhere settln’ forth
his many wirtues. And ” But we left him
here: and wandered about to look for what we
sought. It was a poor mound, with a feeble
wooden cross at the head of it, capped by a salt-
crusted tin immortelle. It was evident that lots of
admirers of the bard’s verse had made pilgrimages
there, from the fact of the sandwich-paper that
strewed the sward, and the heels of cheeses that
were coyly hiding in the adjacent foliage
We saw a ham-bone, too, three sardine-tins, half a
loaf (mouldy),' and a portion of a can of lobsters
in which .1 deiachment of ants seemed to take
considerable interest. Dismayed at this, we at
length alighted on a folded scroll. We clutched it
eagerly. A poetical tribute, doubtless, we thought.
We seized it with avidity. It ran as follows:—
“ Sir, Unless the amount of your account is
settled on or before the 0th nrox., we shall in-
struct our solicitors to sue you without further
notice. Yours, &c , ChHpe Pants & Co., Tailors.”
Then we left. Such is the condition of the grave
of Australia’s representative poet. We wonder
now, if Australia’s smallest poet were to die, how
high his monument would be. Ladies and gentle-
men, put something in the hat.
A novel libel action is shortly to be decided
in New Zealand. On her way to America, Mrs.
Hamnson, the lady evangelist, whose succtss in
Sydney was so marked, called at Auckland and
laid the foundation-stone of an Unsectarian Hall
in Alberi>street. A sketch of her when placing
the rock in position was given In the Observer,
an Auckland paper of the Melbourne Bulletin
type. It is of this illustration that Mrs.
Hampson complains, averring that through
it she has lost two eligible men who were
well on the road to salraiien until they
came across the picture, but who have since
then fallen back into evil ways and excesses. We
have seen the eng aving, and consider that Mrs.
Hampson has a strong case. Nothing like it has
come under our notice s*nc« we visit'd those caves
on the Murrumbidgee whose walls still retain the
first dawnings of aboriginal art in the shape of
post-pliocene niggers “intaglioed” with oyster-
shells in the sandstone. There has been a good
deal of improvement in indigenous art since then,
especially in the Bourke district, where Kiag
Paddy now executes some clever sketches with a
rusty nail. To persons affected with hvpochon-
driasis or confirmed melancholia, we confidently
recommend the Observer’s illustration of “ Mrs.
Hampson laying the foundation-stone.”
A PATHETIC STATEMENT.
Temperance Lecturer: —“ My friends, it is thirty years since I took a drink of spirits.
Thirty years, my friends: thirty, long and weary years!”


URNITURE 8H O W ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
BEADING and LOUNGE CHAJRS. ’
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQtJiSITB
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c..
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T71 URNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
JD THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking’ rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring ana O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s6d: Tables,from7s6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
rjlHE ROSEBERY EASY CHAIR,
Upholstered and Finished, complete, 78s.
Patterns of coverings forwarded to select from.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Block and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
DRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS —
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DININGHroOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two l aves: LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIR"*, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
O0N
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa , at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, *nd light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS. —A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
TjIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FUENT-
Jj TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEAD8, nickel-plated and black andbrass'T
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
■ BEDDING. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
J3 BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
WASHSTAND8, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS. 20s; Verandah Chairs,'
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment: beet make, loa est prices,
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
W shall he glad to have this index posted vp by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
s,porting events in general .1
FUTURE RACES.
Gunnedah December 36, 37.
Wallsend December 36,37.
Tattersall’s (Annual) January 1, 1884.
Orange J.C January 1.
V.UU. January 1.
Wentworth January 1.
Adelong Races January 1, 2.
(Jandelo Races January 2.
Bcga .1.0. Races January lb, 11.
New England Races Janury 25, 26.
Sydney T.C January36.
Goulburu T.C February 1, 2.
Tasmanian tt.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
Coonabarabran January 24, 26.
Cooma Races February 20, 21.
Braid wood Races February 6, 8.
V.R.C. Autumn March 1, 6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.i J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
Hawkeibury R.C. (Autumn) April 3, 5.
AQUATICS
Newcastle Regatta January 1, 1884.
National Regatta January 26
S.A.C. Dingy Club Races —January 5 and Feb. 9.
ATHLETICS.
Hay Athletic Club Sports Dec. 28,27.
Blayney Sports. Dec. 26.
Wrestling Match, Cobar December 36.
Highland Society’s Gathering January 1
Mudgee Sports '* — January 26.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Miller and Victor wrestle in Sydney about
13th January.
Iu a cricket match between Bombala and
Nimitybelle, tho latter were all disposed of for 7in
tneir second inuings. Only thr, e men scored.
It is stated ahorse, appropriately ..amed
Skyscraper, jumped over ;-i paling fence 7ft. high
at the War.vick Show iu Queetislauu. Rather too
tall I
At Lake’s Creek (Q.) Sports, eight beer-
drinkers entered for tne .Novel Beer Race, 75
yams. R. Richards put away his beer in the
quickest and neatest manner, out dia not have
sufficient toot to win the race.
Andrew Lumsden, of Mataura (N.Z.), is
stated to bo a clever wrestler. He is over 20 years,
stands 6ft., ana measures about 45 inches round the
chest. R. Dagg, who is good at the game, tried a
friendly hug with him two years ago at Invercar-
gill, but he pulled in Dagg’s back aud quietly laid
him down.
An amusing advertisement appearing in
the English sporting papers is that of a New-
market barber, who advertises himself as “ patro-
nised by trainers, jockeys, and all tho racing no-
bility,’’ aud who for a weekly consideration will
Impart “tips” for the principal racing events
The idea of the •’racing nobility” disclosing their
.ittle stable secrets over a morning shave is parti-
cularly tunny.
The following are the measurements of
men engaged in tho recent wrestling match in
Melbourne:—Blackburn is 38 years of age, stands
5 feet 7 inches, weighs 13st. 7it>., and has a chest
measurement of 44 inches. Thomas is 35 years of
age, is 40 inches round i he chest, 5 feet It inches
high, and weighs 13st. 7tt>.; and Miller, who is 36
years of age, is 5 feet 9j inches high, turns tl-.o
scale at 15st, and stretches the chest tape at 46
inches.
Anent the latest excitement in English
sporting circles, the sudden disappearance of
James and William Waddell, who u:cd to be called
by m„ny the London Athletic Club, there is known
to be missing a surplus balance to end of 1883,
amounting to £900, this years’ subs., about £1500,
and claims from various creditors to the extent
of £1000. As regards thei private business the
salaried partners in the firm have stated that
£30,000 will prove about the deficit; but in the
city it is expected that £30o,u00 will be nearer the
mark. W. Waddell’s secretary, by name Thur-
good. has also “ toucued ’’ the L. A.c. to the extent
of £90.
The Asteroid, the half-decked yacht built
by Donnelly to the Older of Mr. Elliott, and
recently sola by dim to Mr. Marshall, won the race
for ha'l-decaed boats at the Manly regatta by some
30 minutes, independeut of an allowance ot 5
minutes. Of course, bad It not been a soldier’s
wind, she would hod have been in it, but such a
heavy fiat boat could not bo expected to hold a
wind with the ooaru she carries. The Asteroid is
without doubt a fine model ot a centreboard boat,
and in our opinion all she wants is a thundering
biar double-diop hoard and a heavy crew to hang
out to windward to make her sail like a witch.
Should Mr. Marshall go in this line, we doubt if
many boats of her tonnage would be able to give
her the go-by, either on or off the wind.
Athletics and aquatics are making such
big strides iu N.S.W., it really seems a pity steps
are not taken by the powers that be, in connection
with both branches of sport, to appoint compe-
tent timekeepers, so that in the event of any
phenomenal times being done, the records may bo
authenticated. At present, no official tunotakers
are appointed, and the time is taken by onlookers,
no two ot wnom, as a rule, agree. In the cele-
brated Seward 1U0 yards, the so-ealled official
tiinetaker made it under ten seconds but an on-
looker called it 934sec., and England took it tor a
record, although it is doubted by most sporting
men out of the United Kingdom. It seems a
cruel thing to rob a man of a record, if he really
performed in the time stated, but it is just as haid
on the maker of the preceding best, to b. deprived
of it merely on the word of a bystander, should
any of our men break a record, either on land or
water, N.s.W. will have to put tne ioss of ft down
to the carelessness of the sporting authorities in
not appointing competent timekeepers.
Mr. Walton, the American “plunger,” who
“plunged ” with such satisfactory results when
the American horses, Iroquois and Foxhall, were
carrying even thing before them in England,
anpears to be rather a cocktail sportsman. The
deteat of his mare. GirolR, tor this year’s Caesare-
witch, was b irne with a v°ry bad grace; and the
“plunger” roundly usserteu that she had been
“got at.” However, a threatened action by bis
trainers seems to have had the effect of moderating
his tone. Mr. Walton has yet to learn t at the fact
of backing a horss to win eighty thousand pounds,
is not, of itself, sufficient t'• ensure victory. For
last year’s Ctesarewitch, by the way, ni r. Walton
stood to win an immense stake on Winterbourne,
a horse belonging to Tom Cannon, the jockey; and
in that cise, also, was very ready in raising the
silly cry of “ got at.” American owners of race-
horses in England—Messrs. Loridard, Keene, and
Walton, for li stance—have proved themselves
territly bad losers, directly the tide ot fortune
turned against them.
Jem Mace’s challenge to Sullivan cannot
be looked upon in any other light tnan that of a
mere advertisement. Wh.tt Mace, when at his best,
could have done with the Yankee, is a matter of
conjecture; and considering the men the Gipsy
put under in his day, our opinion is that Sullivan
would not have had it all his own way. There
seems to be a general Impression amongst the
sporting papers that, Mace was a rang cur; but
though he showed the white feather in some of
his matches, he (also fought some of the most
slashing and punishing battles on record. Jem
was born at Beeston ( Eng.), in the year 1831, and
consequently is now 53 years of ago. His first
appearance In the ring was in 1833, against Slack, a
Norwich man, whom he bleated in nine rounds,
lasting 19 minutes. In 185T, he defeated Thorpe in
nineteen rounds, without receiving a scratch; and
Jater on in the same year he was matched against
Mike Madden, lor £50 aside, but Mace forfeited,
a day or two before the one fixed for the light,
on account of an alleged illness. A second match
was made for the 10th May. ’58. and in the morning
he went in a cab with his second to Shoreditch
Railway Station; but just before the train was
ready he was missing; and, although an active
search was made, Mace wps not to be found, and
Madden attain received forfeit. Eventually James
was found quietly taking a meal in a coffee house.
On 21st September, 1858, ie met the clever pugilist
Bob Brettle for £100 a side, and, efter only thr* e
minutes’ lighting, Mace refused to show, and the
battle was awarded to Brettle. Notwithstanding
Jem’s show of the white feather, his backers stuck
to him: and on January 25, 1859, he polished otf
Posh Price in the most finished manner in seven-
teen minutes. His next tryst was with Travers
the Black, whom he defeated in 71 minutes. On
20th September, 1860, he fought Bob Brettle, and
defeated him in 19 minutes; out Jem contrived to
inflict as much punishment iu that time as must
men would inflict in an hour. He then defeated
Sam Hurst, in 40 minutes, on 13th June, 1861,
for the championship. The tlrst man to
dispute the title with him was Tom King,
and the two met in their famous fight
on 28th January, 1862, which resulted in a win for
Mace after fighting 44 rounds. The fight proved
that Mace was capable of receiving, as well as
giving, desperate punishment. King was not
satisfied, and a second match eventuated on 26th
November following. After lighting 19 slashing
rounds, King landed a terrific right-handed cross-
counter, from the effects of which Mace dropped
all of a heap, and was unable to come to the call
of time. On September 1,1863, Mace and Joe Goss
met for the large stake of £1000, Mace staking
£600 to £400. Goss was overmatched from the
start, >nd was defeated in min. This was not
the last match between Mace and Goss, but we
have given sufficient battles to prove that, though
Mace did not show up with ad vantage iu his
earlier fights, in many of his big battles he stood
up and took his punishment as bravely as any
man who ever stepped into a ring.
The final heat for the Punch and Deeble
trophy was rowed over the full champion course
on Saturday last, and eventuated in one of the
most unsatisfactory and unsportsmanlike races
ever seen on the Parramatta. A light north-easter
was blowing when the steamers left the Quay,
but during the passage up the river a halt gale
from the north-west set in, hot as a lurnace blast,
and, with this behind him and an ebb tide under
him, Reynolds won the race in 20 min. 6sec., Hie
fastest time on record. So much for time tests on
the water. The fastest times both on the Thames
and Parramatta have now been perforate I by
third-rate scullers. Reynolds, Davis, Clifford, and
Neil M’Donald dashed away to a fair start, and,
passing Uhr’s point, M'Donald held pride of place,
closely followed by Davis, Clifford third, and
Reynolds brought up the rear. Clifford then
spurted past Davis into second place, which
order was maintained to the Mile Point, passed
by M’Donald in 5m. 51sec. Clifford then com-
menced to draw upon his leader, and for a couple
of miles showed a most determined stern chase.
Inch by inch he drew upon the Clarence Hiver
man, and, amidst violent excitement on the boats
following the race, drew level shortly after passing
the S.R.C. Branch. But Neil M’Donald c<mid not
see letting the big one give him the go-by, and
was evidently bent on the win-tie-or-wrangle
business, as lie bored Clifford over to the Southern
shore and louled him. C'ifford drew clear, but
M’Donald again fouled him; and the men were
locked together a sufficient time to allow of Uey-
nolds obtaining a commanding le j d, which he
maintained to tho finish, desnite a g illant effort
on Clifford’s part to overtake him. Itejnolds
rowed a course of his own, well under the Nort her"
shore, and showed at times by far the best form of
the four, although he received, lor ihe greater
part of the race, the wash from the shell in which
D. M’Donald (a brother of one of the competitors)
accompanied the race. This was a most bare-
faced piece of jockeying. M’Donald lined the
Darkie for upwards of two miles; and it is to be ■
hoped that in the event of any more «>t these races
coming off, the promoters will keep in remem-
brance the conduct of the M’Donald Bros, on
Saturday last. Clifford rowed a game and manly
race, and substantial sympathy was shown by the
passengers on the Leveret, who subscribed £i0 tor
him in a less number of minutes. A str mg lading
was shown against M’Donald. who received groans
and hoots loud and long. Davis sculled well at the
commencement of the race, but he rowed in an
old boat, which must have been a heavy hannicap
to him.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Armidale, on 15th December, the Salis-
bury cricketers defeated the local team by 133 to
133 Ike goes to New Zealand.... J. T. Taylor, of
Melbourne, has offered to back hii imported fox-
terrier Wriggle against any imported dog: 50 or
100 rats At Brisbane Separation Day Regatta
Brisbane won the champion fours, and Uhlinau
the amateur race in wager-boats....Mr. O Aiken
lias purchased the South Australian steeplechaser,
Bob ooeper, for 315 guineas At Orange, a
match between tho local and Carcoar cricketers
resulted in a draw.
♦ ♦ •
A bicyclist and a tricyclist toed the scratch
in Efigland the other day, for riding at night
without lights. The termer was fined, but the
latter got off, as “tricycles ’’ were not included in
the bye-law. By toe time they are, the offender
will have added another wheel to his machine, and
flattened out an old woman or two, . ..George, the
English runner, recently beat Snook in a mile
scratch at Kennington, after a desperate finis' 1 ,
a id the pair are to run three more races—one, two,
and tour miles being the distances. George, at
latest, was stated to be very lit, and had
beaten record in a trial which he had performed...
At the sale of a number of Lord Rosebery’s horses
at Newmarket, Roysterer (winner of the City and
Suburban) was knocked down to K. Archer, tor
9S0gs Lord Falmouth has won the Clearwell
Stakes nine times in fourteen years >t is re-
ported that the Duchess of Montrose will entrust
her racing stud to the care of Captain Macheil next
year. .. Lord Falmouth’s Galliard goes to the stud.
The Mercantile Mutual Insurauce
Company.
Very few Insurance companies, probably, in any
part of the world have enjoyed such an uninter-
rupted run of good business as that which has
marked the career of the Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Company in this city. It was launched
on the soundest insurance basis, the business
while being vigorously pushed being confined to
the safest possible channels, with the result of a
minimum of losses and an increasing public con-
fidence. Insurances are effected on ordinary city
risks ; but the company goes further, to a new
field, issuing policies on wool and stock in transit
to market, and on the homesteads of graziers and
substantial, thrifty settlers. This has opened a very
wide field, and the work has been so cautiously and
successfully carried on that what hts often proved
a source of danger and weakness to other com-
panies has been a substantial addition to the whole
Dusiness. The manager is Mr. Kelso King, who
has shown particular aptitude and fitnets for his
office, and certainly no man has worked harder for
> ucccss or done more ia the same time. A sound
directory backs up this active management, to the
benefit alike of the shareholders and the insurer.
As to the business of the Mercantile Mutual, the
past year’s premiums are about £12,(k0, and the
income was over £13,000. Agencies i re established
in all the towns of the colony. The head office is
at 131, Pitt-street, Sydney. The Mercantile
Mutual has been noted fur its prompt settlement
of just claims, having received several notices in
the press for its alacrity in this respect.
Mr. G. F. Mason's Original Genuine N.Z.
Kauri Pine Depot, Patent Slip Wharf,
sydney.
We bavo no better proof of the prosperity of this
colony than the great activity of the building
t ades, and the practical-minded character of the
colonist is nowhere bettershown ihmin his readily
availing himself of the best n aterial to band, no
mrticr whence it comes. This statement Is well
supported by facts in connection with the growth
of tne importation ana use in this colony of the
Cdlet rated N.Z. Kauri pine Ten o • twelve years
ago this splendid timber was nardly known in
tnis colony ; at any rate, there was no
business in the importing line. And so, when
about this time Mr. if. F. Mason started his
extensive Kauri timber yards and works at the
Patent Slip Wharf, between King and Ersklne
streets, there were not wanting hundreds to pre-
dict failure for the undertaking. But Mr. Mason
knew what he was importing, and correctly
guuged tne requirements of the colonial market.
In the North Island of N.Z., there are great forests
of this Kauri pine, each tree of which is valued
at £300, so that the wealth of the colony in this
respect alone must be almost fabulous. Years
ago, the go-ahead New Zealand pioneers
recognised the value ot the Kauri pine—not
only for building, but lor decorative pur-
poses ; hence, whole towns are found built of
the material, and immense quantities are ab-
sorbed for every description of furniture. Well
in Sydney, owing to the opposition ot the timber
merchants, and the prejudice of workmen—for,
he it remembered, Kauri pipe is of rare toughne* 8
and texture—the flr.-t yeat’s sale at Mr. Mason’s
was not over one mi.non leet, but last, year it ran
up to over five milln n feet—fully justifying the
expectations of the founder of the business. Mr,
Mason’s yards are situated at the Patent BJ p
Wharf, between King and Erskinc streets, ai a
cimprise over an acre and a hall, on which ai
stacked enormous quantities of Kauri, going
through the process of seasoning. The premises
nave splendid water frontage of an average
depth of 34 feet, where Mr. Mason is able
to berth not only his own three vessels, but
several others under charter to bim-the work '•(
unloading being carried out with every facility,
the wonderful adaptability of Kiama pine 10
general purposes is nowhere better shown than at
these yards, in one place are to be seen splendid
iiO-feet planks lor decking and general ship-build-
ing work, which are pronounced by all the ship-
builders here to completely supplant all other
timber; and there is stout material also for au
purposes of boat-building, &c. Then, in another
place, are shown beautiful samples of carved
Kaura mantel pieces, and turned and c irved reany
made material i or house decorations, furniture, &c.
all which is ot the most elegant appearance, and
takes a magnificent polish; and as for flooring
boards, ceilings, c isements, panels, &c„ there are
hundreds of thousands of feet free from knot or
defect of any kind, probably the finest timber
shown in any market in the world. The huge
quantity of dressed material, for building require-
ments, and for furniture, office fixings, &c., show
that the American article is every day being
driven out ot this market. Kauri pine has a
wonderfully, fine texture, and possesses a
perennial natural aroma that is a standing
antidote to the white ant which is doing so much
mischief in the city and suburbs of Sydney. On
Mr. Mason’s premises are wide, spacious sheds,
wherein are stored many hundreds of thousands
of feet of Kauri, ready for all house and ship
builders’ needs and emergencies,—guarantee of
excellence being given in the fact that each board
bears Mr. Mason’s name indelibly stamped thereon
There are miles of timber here as level as plate-
glass, without a single defect. Some of the stacks
—solid stacks, be it remembered—are upwards of
30 feet high, and here timber has been seasoning
for the 1 st seven years. Mr. Mason’s stock repre-
sents a little over 2J4 million feet, an 1 roc
less than £35,000 capital is invested in thestocK,
&c. with these huge resources, Mr. Mason sup-
plies only the seasoned pine, keeping up the quan-
tities by fresh shipments. Thv yards are also the
Sydney depot tor the Oakland Mills at Kichmond
River, where over 500,000 feet per month are g( t
through, and great quantities of Maryborough
cedar doors are imported. Here, also, is tne
agency for the Bellinger steamers, which bring
not only timber but general produce to this
market. So that in a variety of ways, Mr. Mason s
enterprise is of great substantial benefit to the
community in which he lives. There is, probab y,
but one person in a thousand who knov>s
of the immense extent of Mr. Mason’s yards
and upplios—and the visitor who goes there for
the first time may go in the expectation of very
great surprise. In this climate, no better, heal-
thier, or more elegant material than Kauri pine
can be procured for house-building; and, as every
item — boards, joists, verandah-posts, window-
frames, mantel-pieces, &c.—can he obtained ready
for use, polished or unpolished, a settler or
suburban icsident can set about the work at the
very lowest cost. Ten minutes’ inspection of the
works and supplies will probably save people
many hundreds of pounds.
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Chaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1876,
by M. Edouard Favre-Perrel. Swiss Commissioner
and juror to t-.c Philadelphia Exhibition:—
On the Waltham “ Riverside ’’ Watch.
. , . . “The Waltham Company make the
entire watch—from the first screw to the case and
dial. It would even be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work
They arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given to the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
is what I have seen, gentlemen! I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of the
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, * On the con-
trary, I persist in wearing it just as it is, to obtain
an exact Idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, I set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 33
seconds. And this watch is of the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without easel.
At my arrival at Lode, 1 showed the watch to one
of our first adjusters, who asked permission t >
‘take it down’—in other words, to take it to
pieces. I, however, wished first to observe it; and
heie is the result, which I noted: Hanging, dally
variation, seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the ‘ heated room,’
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, I handed the watch to the adjuster, who
took it down. After the lapse of a few days, he
came to me and said, word for word: ‘I am com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not find one such watch among 50,000 of our
manufacture.’
“ This watch, gentlemen, 1 repeat to you, I took
at hazard—out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watch
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
fentlemcn, and I have told you of things such as
have seen them. It remains for us to profit
from t'.-.is sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at once.”
IA round of aonlause followed th*. r as he
rtofidoniipH th« trihnn*» •
Every notable event notches itself in the
calendar of time. So in the medical woild
Wol,fe s Schnapps signalized an epoch, and will
live as long as humanity is capabla of appreciating
its miraculously curative powers.
The peculiar virtue in Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla is that, while it cleanses and purges the blood
from all corruptions and impurities, and thereby
routs out disease, it builds up and invigoratest he
whole system, and makes cue young agum.


h6t water baths
ESTAfl.iSHMENT
• 137, 139 '• 1 H CX r OR[: ■ • •
$L HALF HOHOAYSi'Frt. Y r//UFtSOAY
m
AFFECTION
ALL
CHES
ND
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. ;
Strength, Durability, Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USF.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
83 CLARENCE STREET.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock , Station, and GeneraI Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 113 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
b£xTRAGTorI)ANDEUON
o/^for Liver Complaints.
t!y MARSHALL BROTHERS}
Chemists, market street.
IV. H. Ariel! and Co.’s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
AErated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
J, F. MCKENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in and 11b. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &c.
343 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all-old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing. Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
“ rH H E GUNDAGAI HERALD,
I Pastoral Gazette & Farmers’ Chronicle,”
With which is incorporated the
“TEMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL,”
Published every
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor.
Theatrical Job Printing, aud box oiiicw for
Ansemhly Hall.
Foster s Bugle Brand.
registered brand.
EAU DE COLOGNE.
4111. 4711.
ESTABLISHED 1792.
Gold Medal, Moscow, 1873.
Prize Medal, Vienna. 18(3.
THIS EAU DE COLOGNE, so favourably
known to the Australian public during the
last 35 years, obtained at the last Philadelphia
Exhibition the PRIZE MEDAL, and FIRST
PRIZE Sydney International Exhibition, for its
superior sweetness, strength, and invigorating
qualities, excelling all other competitors.
It has become the great favourite of the public,
and is extensively patronised by the
ELITE OF EUROPE.
The large and constantly increasing demand for
the genuine 7411 EAU DE COLOGNE, not only in
Europe, but also in North and South America,
India, and Australia, is further undeniable evi-
dence of its superiority.
The public are respectfully warned against
numerous spurious imitations with the genuine
number 4711 changed into 7411,1147, 4117, &c., &c.
The real genuine article, which carried oft the
Prize Medal at the Vienna Exhibition, is that with
the peculiar Gothic blue and gold label (different
from all the others), and marked 4711.
Wholesale Agents-ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Pitt-
street, Sydney. To be had at the principal Per-
fumers, Druggists, and Storekeepers in town and
country.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
|TMK NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
igainst ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
jrganise, organise at once, so that everyone can
jmoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAil & CO.
TORE STREET. SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE
67 GEORG E STREET WBOT.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum
1 Designs and Estimates Furnished on application,
JJUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
On. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SH07
a COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTTFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature , Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. 498 GEORGE 8T.. SYDNEY.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IP REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide w • rkmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN
m
£
-ss
&
m
si
s
iuy
Ml
as
GUARANTEED FIVE YEARS OLD.
POTSTILL AND MALT VRISK.Y,
genuine extra stout.
BASS PALE ALE.
JAMES YOUNG, Sole Agent,
No. 9 CHANGE ALLEY,
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE ]
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICH Ah DS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BLEND
MARK!
TRADE
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
ikHil
W Jr IX
nniR.BURGIS
l/Ul TAILOR..
m
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOB
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony
w n
ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £410
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &G.
HBBBLEWH1TE & C 0.5
416 GEORGE STREET.
DINNER,
*
*
SHILLING
ONE
4
O
7
%
W 3
*/
H 3
e
o
*
\<S
*
*
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTERSALL’S.
All Meals One Shilling.
J. a G&BKNVIELD. PBOPBUMMU
WM. RUSSELL,
DENTIST,
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Artificial Teeth, from 5s. Stopping-, Scaling, and
Extracting equally moderate. Maliormations and
accidental deformities of the jaws, teeth, or palate,
treated. King-st. entrance All work guaranteed.
Schweppes Mineral Waters,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
Wine Merchants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
SODA-WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE,
POTASS, LITHIA (tor gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS,
51 BERNERS-STREET, LONDON;
58 MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY,
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn ... Wagga Wagga
Vass Hanging Rock
Bowning Culcairn
Binalong Cowabee
Harden Narandera
Young Hulong
Cootaraundra Carrathool
Junee Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Bla'; ney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narroraine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
tiourke
Northern District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrina
Guunedah Tamwortb
Narrabri I ralla
WaJgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line:
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenswood Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M’CTJLLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
jy Agencies in all parts of the world.
i u *~
" 3RELLAS
i
t _ COVERED,
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HavcyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
1 Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
511 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Between
I, Liverpool and Bathurst Sts,
t Parasols made to match coe-
• tuuitf. Unuairs iiHutly oxe-


RUMfO??
mm
Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mau.
FARTIOUIARI.T RSGOMMBKBSD FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION.
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, Ac.
W No Dargkr car Attend its Dam.
Nervous Depression from Overwork,
tlugglsli Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, O., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavv head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18, 1880.
In regard to the Hereford's Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all casst where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter. M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Hereford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
yean prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases ef morbid
unne. * it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, ana is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Con be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford's Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled, it is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing urink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNES
Pain Killing
OH,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to nse by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained oerds and muscles new life and elas-
ticity,'Curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprung, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
theiia.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand f er immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
sad tedieus sickness.
•eld by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A PEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggiaa and Carriages
Are the best imported inte this country, and have
gained throughou tthe colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the beat No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their Hniah
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
Instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say thst a as in
MR.
American Carriage Emporium,
WTNTAXB SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON J10XJLAM * 00-
lets Ageote
For tm“ nietv and absvmal bathos com-
mend us to the latest sensation of our bucolic
contemporary, the Northern big-cabbage. prize-
pig, an' 1 gigantic pumpkin organ—we need hardly
aav that we refer to the Maitland Mercdrt. In
that venerable print ’tie related how one D«vls, a
carrier, got bit on the knee bv a large brown
snake one Saturday evening at about eight: how
about midnight he was seized with frightful
nain ; how he hovered betwixt life and death :
how “a higher Provid»nc watched over him”;
how brandy and water galore was administered
(presumably the higher Providence In its attrac-
tive role of the Great Spirit with three lumps of
sugar to the tumbler) ; how, “as the sun com-
menced to reflect, it was seen there was a great
strangeness coming over him,” and how,“for about
forty minutes, it was a desperate contest, but the
Maker of all looked mercifully down—*nxious
faces wore a painful look of suspense’ the crisis
was over, they were relieved”! I By the way,
didn’t a higher Providence make and watch over
snake just as it made and watched over Mr. Davis ?
Since that really superior paper, the
Jester, became incorporated with our hysteri-
cally humorous old friend. Sydney Punch, we
have in some degree lost interest in contemporary
journalism. We understand now, however, that a
certain syndicate—that is the word now—consist-
ing of G. Honey, Esq., a speculator in plums, a
flying flsh merchant, and other capitalists, are
about to issue to the world something in the
humorous line which they contemplate will
“ knock ’em.” The title of the publication is to
be, it seems,
THE COFFIN.
A COMIC PAPER.
Amongst the contents will be a serial story, com-
plete in one number, entitled, “ The Corpse : a
Cheerful Kovel”; and, besides this, “Our Dead
Letter Box ” will contain a number of letters from
deceased electors who are indignant at their votes
having been recorded (during their unavoidable
absence) for Orange politicians. None but under-
takers’ advertisements will be inserted; and the
staff trust that, should their first number not
come entirely up to the public estimation ot a
truly humorous paper, some excuse will be made
for them from the fact of their having been dead
so long. Under the heading of “ Body Snatchers,”
poetry of a suitable nature will be freely inserted.
The following is, we understand, a poem by one
of the staff, that will, in all probability, appear in
the first issue
We're dead, of course, but don’t suppose
We cannot burn the midnight taper;
Though corpses, we are not of those
Who cannot write a comic paper!
Though down a cold vault lowered far,
And Fathe- Time’s pronounced our doom, sirs,
Oh, we can write the small 1 DNCH-par.,
And little joke that’s full of gloom, sirs.
When local verses we have done,
The world this dead brigade will honour I
Oh, won’t we sing of “ Wholesome Fun,”
And of the ‘‘genial Dan O’Connor.”
And then we’ll draw each living myth
In cartoons big, with poses plastic;
“The Celebrated Mister Smith,”
Et puis a par. encomiastic.
Enough has now been sung or said.
Behold, our skull-tops we are doffln’;
Support the humour of the dead!
Support the Corpses’ Comic Coffin 11
Our advent now is very nigh—
We advertise our paper’s name, sirs,
By bowing, with a deep-drawn sigh,
And asking you to watch this FRAME, sirs.
The Book op the Season.—Just published,
the “ Mining Lease holders’ Guide ”160 pages, being
a handy book of tne Laws and Regulations re-
lating to gold and mineral leases, mineral license
holdings mining upon reserves, roads, Ac , also,
mineral conditional purchases; how to distin-
f uish, test and assay minerals, ores and gems,
oumi in the colony, and calculate their value;
with preface, copious explanatory notes and index,
bv T. F. De Courcy Browne, late Deputy Chairman
of the Mining Board of N.3. Wales, author of the
“ Miners’ Handy Book,” &c.. &c. Price 2b. 6d., by
post 2s. 10d., in cloth 3e. fld. J. J. Moore and Co., 564
George-street.*
Woman Items
Beware the waltz! The “ champion lady
waltzer ” in New Zealand has been smitten with
epileptic fits, owing, say the medic •►, to the
giddiness produced by constant indulgence in this
pastime. Waltzing, no doubt, is rather a giddy
affair at the best.
What do you think of this? It is pro-
posed in the Mauritius that girls shall be allowed
to marry at the early age of thii teen. This notion
would be repugnant to British ideas, but it has
some points to recommend it. For instance, the
girl would be too young to have learnt to play the
piano.
As a rule women are cruel. That is be-
cause they do not think. They are cruel to
animals almost always. At home (in Europe',
however, the fine ladies have suddenly turned
merciful. They refuse to eat game that has been
shot. The shot hurts their teeth. And teeth are
dear just now, ivory being so scarce. So fashion-
able restaurateurs will not now buy game, unless
it has been netted or snared in some illegitimate
or unsportsmanlike manner. Sportsmen are natu-
rally indignant at this. We wonder what the poor
partridges and pheasants think ? Pshaw 1 we arc
growing weak. Give us our howitzer, and tie i.
cow to the muzzle When it comes to the point
we can be as bloodthirsty as the best among you.
Mrs. Smith, of London, aged 84, summon* d
her son, Napoleon Charles, for support. “ N..|* -
leon” swore that his mother made £1 * we* k m
fortune-telling, that she was not his parent at all,
but his foster-mother, and that she b *1 i <>*
gladdened his eyes for 40 years. Some time i go
her fare had been paid to Australia —win re a wan-
field for her accomplishments was said to exist -
and she had received an outfit. But the wide-
awake old girl was sceptical concerning Antipo-
dean advantages, and so stuck to the money, > nd
“spouted” the outfit. The Bench decided that
Napoleon Charles should support the dame, i *1
not again endeavour to palm her off on toe Aus-
tralians, who were already over-stocked with
charlatans.
This is a legend; but as it is not much
longer than a prescription, if the heat will permit
you to do so, read it. Years ago, an amiable old
lady took a very nice house, and her means—she
not having succeeded in getting into the Ministry
—being limited, commenced to advertise, as fol-
lows, in the Herald:— “ furnished Apartments
for Single Gentlemen. Piano.” Not getting a re-
ply, she, at the end of 15 years, consulted a triend,
who amended her ad. bv eliminating the worn
“piano.” She has now five single gentlemen, who
want, for £1 a week, four courses tor breakfast, a
lunch the size of a 10s. fish globe to take to the
office, and a diner ala Russe woen they come bo ne.
The last we heard of the landlady was that she had
set out to have an interview with heradviser- and
had taken a box-iron with her.
This is a fashionable item. The writer is
not the dainty scribe who does these things gene-
rally. He is the dog-fight critic. But he has eyes
—at least, one eye at present, the other having re-
treated to the base of his skull in consequence of
advances made by a gentleman in the pea-and-
thirable profession, whose business he was indis-
creet enough to refer to as not strictly honourable.
And he saw a lady last week wearing a full-blown
sunflower in her bosom. She had aso a wart
on her nose. This may be news, or it may not. If
it is not, he craves pardon. One can t be all things.
At least, few can. And it does not follow that a
man who can bring out all the points of a dog-
fight can also shine as a fashion-writer. After all,
what does follow ? Nothing—except, perhaps, a
bailiff.
This is an odd world. A brilliant reflection
this. Yes, we are brilliant occasionally—when the
gasman is genial. Well, if you would like to know
what makes us think the world is odd, we will
tell you. The other day, a woman tried to commit
suicide at Port Adelaide. She was prevented, and
“ bound over to keep the peace for three months.”
One would imagine this to be a judicial joke only
that judges never joke, except when they are
sentencing a man to be hanged. Anybody but n
judge would see that this woman was try ing to
keep the peace in the most conclusive manner
when she was interrupted by the constable. Shr
was a generous woman, however. Before she
threw herself off the wharf, she offered a boy five-
pence in coppers, saying : “Take this wealth; I
am going to drown myself.” We would never do
this if we were going to commit suicide. We
should go over to the hotel and squander the three-
pence in beer. The twopence we should leave to
the poor.
We are uneasy. This is the cause: —
“ Danger in the kiss. M. Pasteur, of germ-theory
fame, has found that there are parnslt* s in the
moisture of the mouth, which render it extremely
dang tous to kiss a person when fasting. Fo- d
renders them innocuous.” This is the paragraph
upon which our eye is glued, and, as we think of
the terrible risks we have un * i'tingly run in our
variegated career, we grow cold all over, and fancy
there is now a creeping in our mouth. Why didn’t
somebody mention this bef< m ? What s the good
of saying "ignorance is bliss,” when it’s quite
clear it isn’t, in a matter of this kind ? We have
kissed some girls at various times, in sundry
places, and in divers manners, but never, in a
single instance, have we yet stopped to inquire of
the fair one, ere bestowing the chaste salute,
whether she was empty or otherwise. But none
will be more successful than we when pursuing
our honev-spread career in future. We feel
thankful to Pasteur, for his thoughtful cau-
tion as to the dangers confronting those
who enter upon this particu’ar field of social
pleasure. We, the combined editors, sub-
editors and whole staff of the pnper, who are
now writing this tender par., have individually
and collectively kissed every deso* iuiion of girl
all over the civilized world. We have pressed the
necfared lips of the blonde d mgi ters of the icy
North when the mercury va* .tow i under zero,
and it was cold enough to u i in st freeze our mutual
mouth before we could t* rm mate the cohesion. In
the tr.-plc zone we have of ion carrie 1 to euccess-
ful issue similar acts, with warm-lippe I, impulsive
brunettes, when it was so intensely" hot that our
twin lips might have melted during the ceremony.
We have kissed gins with golden hair; and, from
motives of policy, we have heroically tampered
with mature spinsters with Wigzell hair. Wehave
osculated with tall, short, thi.i, fat, big, little,
and red-haired girls. We have commingled our
mouth* with gins active aud passive; sometimes
they did most of it, and sometimes we did; and
we may remark parenthetically that, although
we have occasionally found girls who could
do more thau we could, it has invariably been
rather due to their almost passionate haste than
to any wilful shirking on our part of a sacred and
sweet duty'. It may have been carelessness; it
may have been a perfectly sublime indifference as
to the consequences, whatever they might be; but
we have kissed and been kissed, at almost every
hour the hands of the clock can point to, under
the legitimate circumstances of kiss-in-the-ring,
clandestinely in the bedroom passage, at parties,
harbour picnics, and coming home from prayer
meeting; but we never asked our yielding com-
panion the all-important question—** Are you sure,
darling, you are properly nourished ?
This, is genuine. The other day a facetious
party put uu advertisement in the 9. M. Herald
*■0 this effect.:—“ A young lady required as general
'rvant. The mistress does all the housework and
shing; the master chops the wood and cleans
be boots. Every evening out, also Sundays,
’ollowcrs allowed in any number. Convenient
back gate to the premises. Good looking butcher,
baker, &c„ call daily. Waves, 35s. per week.
Address, Suburban, Herald Office.” The answers
the author of this humorous flight received were
very numerous: but we have only room for quo-
tations from a few of them. In some instances
tl e ladies “drop down” to the satire, and exhibit
an irritability bordering on the waspish. In
Other cases the replies are of an ingenuousness
which is possibly rea 1 , but very prob >bly feigned
for the occasion. “Addie J ," for instance,
says:—“ In answer to your advertisement, I beg to
applv for it:” (sic) “am tall and good-iooHng, and
•think [ could fetch the butcher.” Christian
naively writes:—“I have filled a similar
situation i" Scotland, but would require
use of grand piano, and use (sir) of drawing-
room for my music and French Governess ”
(sir). “Miss Jones” answers in this wise:—
There is only one objection; you don’t mention
het r. I should take half a glass of beer every
Sunday, as I have been ordered it by my medical
ittendants. . . I am willing to do anything that
s useful and ornamental without being fatiguing.”
Remarks “Eileen” (in a fashionable hand): “I
hink the salary low. as I am good at entertaining
company. . . Please state if you keep a cook;
if so, of what gender?" “Modesty’s” communi-
cation is of too giddy a nature to be quoted
in its entirety. She wants what she calls
a “ privilege ’’ which few mistresses would
he willin' to accord. “Common Sense”
is apparer' lv in earnest: for she writes on a sheet
of paper about the size of a pawn-ticket, and con-
siders the place would be “suitable” for her.
“ Miss A." gravely applies “ for the vacancy which
has occurred in your, I am sure, happy home.”
“Maclelle. Parraseuse (sic) is “of a commanding
statue (sic), a beautiful complexion, hands size
five;” hut she doesn’t apparently feel called upon
to say anything about her feet. Madelle. P. wants
lo come badly, and plays not only the piano, but,
it seems, the Jew’s narp. “ Lady Fitzherbert” is
very angry. She can “speak seven languages.”
tnd should be “ an acquaintance for any J.P.
or the refined larrikin of New South Whales.”
sir). “Amanda” simnly contents herself with
wriMng that if she takes the billet she is “ at horns
n Fridays.” This is very amusing, all this ; but
It is not only amusing—It opens up a very largo
question, and one which will greatly interest us
the moment Mr. Thomas draws off our Kandwick
help, and insists upo" her supporting her parents!
Before we invested in a butler at two shillings a
month, we tried several ladies of every age and
Size—and, we might almost add, colour—in the
capacity of stipendiary gentl* women—we don’t
th.nk we can put it more delicately than that—but
we don't remember ever scoring a success up to
the present. It was only, however, when one
retainer, who threw ever> thing out, wanted to
include ourselves—that we called a cab for her,
and bringing down her luggage with our own fair
hands, resolved to dispense from thenceforth w ith
either the highly respectable female servant from
Great Britain, or the respectful and industrious
handmaid born in the colony. There is nothing
of the E. W. O’Sullivan about us, in regard to this
burning question. We prefer peace with a Chinese
groveller, to an eternal tempest with a lady help
a 11 bangs and “ improver.”
• •
A dude meets a dudine. She : ** Why did
you not come up to ow house las’ night ? We
looked faw >ou. ’ He: “ k’aas, could not get up
thah. Had 'notber ’ngagement. My motna's dead.
Thought I ougtit to go up to ow houth 1” ...Old
mother Eve was Ev-angclical before the fall, and
then she took to Vestme its.” . Josepn Bennett,
a labourer, of Stoke-on-Trent, was sent to prison
for assaulting his girl. Joseph had been in the
habit of attending “revival” meetings at a
Methodist chapet, which probably accounts for
him knocking his girl down, “and repeatedly
kicking her ” In court, he stated that he would
“either marry or kill her”—many men do both
with their early loves A nonsensical prediction
“ came off ” in a most extraordinary manner, a
little while ago. A domestic servant, residing at
Brentford (Eng.), was supposed to have been
drowned in the canal, and the wile of a bargeman,
who enjo.vs the reputation of being a “wise
woman.” predicted that if a loaf of bread with
quicksilver in it were placed on the water it would
float, and slop over the spot where the dead girl
lay. The loaf was floated, and sure enough it did
stop immediately over the defunct domestic. Wise
as most women are, we yet venture to think that
the bargee's wife will require a good deal of beat-
ing.. .The Canadian Methodists have eliminated the
word “obey” from the marriage service. Ex-
perience has no doubt taught these Benedicts that
the word “rule” would be nearer the mark A
female railway thief experienced a nasty shock,
the other day at Nottingham, She succeeded In
getting safely away with a trunk from the Midland
Railway station, and upon opening it, in the seclu-
sion of her chamber, discovered that her prize
consisted of sundry human remains, preserved
in spirits ot wine. This savoury article of
luggage was the property of a medical man.
A DELICATE ATTENTION.
Jones (self-made man) to Officer of Foreign Man-of-War —(making it easy for
him): “Where you bin come from last time ? Budgeree ship this fellow. Budgeree,
Kabawn budgeree, you know.”
