

The
Bulletin
NEW SERIES
WHOIW HORDERN AND SONS.
I L
HAYMARKET. ONLY, SYDNEY.
largest, Cheapest, and Most Popular Drapery Establishment
south: or tthh:
o"ve:r Seven 'l'inovLsa.ne.d. ■U'isitons I
jll cannot oe too widely Knor
hptrj Miry, takin, Ready-made
It cannot be too widely known that we are the Largest Importers of
lay, Boil: aii Iks, Hats asi Cap;
FURNITURE, BEDSTEADS AND BEDDING.
ll st f - ■ ' 1 “ ~
most grateful for the very large share of Public Patronage accorded to us in the past, we desire to assure cur
e friends that we shall in the future endeavour to merit a continuance of their favour.
a^wa y s M° st Successful in Placing before the Public the Latest and Most Pashionable Novelties in each of
ftients, from all the Markets of the World, a success we are quite confident of being able to maintain, and thus
hope to secure a Still Greater Share of the support of the population of New South Wales.
Please -fcTote ovlx A.ddxess:
r
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET (ONLY).


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brahi, and stomach will umte in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is uneoual to its work. To
obviate all these symptoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM'S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboratory,
434 George Street, Sydney.
MONEY LOANS GRANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Deeds, Bonds, Certificates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which will be paid in full within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE PIETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 Castlreagu Street,
One door South of King Street.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
Apply to
D. KEELY AND CO.,
71 Goulburn-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, G.-.salicrs, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Keely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount will be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasalier 70s
3 do do .. ..; .. .. 50s
3 do do .. .. .. .. 35s to 45s
Wall bracket lamp, burn 16 hours.. 17s 6d
do do 9 do .. 15s
Table lamps, 3 branch 60s
do 1 do .. .. .. 45s
Brass Brackets 40s
All Globes and Fittings 5s extra
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal 2s 6d per gal.
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to the mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all parts of the Colonies.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY MINERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
m
:■ r -
.: :v' L v:
V. E. ANGLE’S
(Late of 31 Market-street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
636 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
Coatings, direct from the manufacturers, always
on hand.
All Garments Cut in the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address-
-636 George St., Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
ERMEST CARTIER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
ESP” All Timber is thoroughly seasoned before it
leaves these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
>V URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, and
iaken internally cures DIARRHCEA., DYSENTERY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other internal aches
And pains.
jPrfiee, 25/- Sold Everywltcrc.
C. E. MOULTON, SOLE PROPCICTCR,
ALIEX.IBOtJIKiN'E -A.7STI3 SYDNEY.
PAINT
BULIi & ADRIAN,
Merchant Tailors,
m
-7b
%
m
SO
SAY
ALL
OF
US
sfe
470 George-street, opposite the Markets,
SYDNEY.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES*, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &c.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Painis, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, Ac.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
VW THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. OOsttuLred.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.VV. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George: Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Export »'t the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely tha t it
has not been in the hands of “Whiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.VV. and Queensland.
SYDNEY & HELBOOME
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
HAVING opened the above, the Proprietor has
supplied a want long 1 felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will bo open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS mumm,
HERALDIC ARTIST AND ENGRAVER,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Largo and varied assortment of Letter Books,
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses,
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
A .gent, for August Iluenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
WIT II AN II MANN K L 1. ,
SHIRT TAILORS, HOSIERS, & MERCERS,
298 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1844.
Our CELEBRATED WHITE SHIRTS, ready made
,305., 405., 505., 00s. the half-dozen.
EW OL F F AND SON,
• Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks, Crayons,
Artists’ Materials, and Stationers’ Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment, and the Bank of England.
Office and Warehouse: 55 Great Queen-street,
Lincoln’s Inn Fields, AV.C. Factory: Falcon Pencil
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set of
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for N.S.W.), care of
Messrs. Feldhoim, Gotthelf and Co., 80 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
S
ECURE A LOT AT SPRINGSID
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
E
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
■ mr 3 1 7 JP 1T T STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
nnilE FEDERAL RANK OF AUSTRALIA
JL (Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £lOOO,OOO ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
Directors :
The Tlon. W. A. Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
W. H. Eldred, Esq., J.P. IF. T. Humphery, Esq.,
Robert Hudson, Esq. M.P.
I J. Y. Mills, Esq.* J.P.
Manager ; F. S. Macdermott.
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralf e.
Temporary Banking House, 357 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
Branches and Agencies throughout the Colonies
and in Europe.
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
all usual Banking business transacted without
delay to customers.
F. S. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
W. H. Ariell and Co.’ s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Plum Puddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
Ai rated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
DILLON & BURROWS' prize assorted Confec-
tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
Soaps. . .
J. F. M'KEJtZIE & CO.’S CofTee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Tea, in Rjlb. and lib. packets ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
HUNT & CO.’S Prize Raking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, SS&.
M 3 and 345 KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Coolalta Wine, Bodega,
MORT'S PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had
at the Bodega. Hot Spioed Wines during Winter.
Open from 9 a.rn. till 6 p.m.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes. Private
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings ;
afternoon classes,Thursdays. Evening: Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.: Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.*; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at Tattersall’s Now Hall,Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, Ac. 251 Elizabeth-street.
The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIAKD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUJJG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE H&RWOQD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing- all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. :
Strength, Durability. Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
coment, and after fifteen years’ constant use. wo
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will expos ;re to sun or rain
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs Wi th seats •• token.
Any person can re-seat and make as good n sew a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a ver ; tnffe.w
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Ever v District.
From £3 to £3 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy in his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR A' <TRAIMA,
82 CLARENCE STREET.
[lO BE DISPOSED OP BY SUB-
SCRIPTION
on the
ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
£15,000
Pounds worth of
Freehold Properties.
£15,000
In 15,000 Shakes of £J Each
Ist Prize, £Booo—Hardwickf Estate, Yass, N.S.W.,
2700 Acres.
2nd Prize, £3OOO, Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
N.S.W.
3rd Prize, £2OOO, “St. Klida House,” Goulburn, 15
Rooms (indu ed £1000).
4th Prize, £BOO, “ Two-si pried House *
street, Goulburn.
in CliHord-
-sth Prize, £4OO
nth Prize, £1.50
7th Prize, £l2O
Bth Prize, £l2O
9th Prize, £B5
10th Prize, £75
11th Prize, £75
12th Prize, £75
13t'h Prize, £75
14th Prize, £25
15th Prize, £25
Kith Prize, £25
The following 1 gentlemen have consented to act as
Committee :-
J. 1
J (
K,
.10
£• l;t liso., J.P., Goulburn.
S. MEYER, J.P., Goulburn.
The DRAW-No will take place in the Mechanics’
Institute, G- iphurn, in the presence of the Com-
nuttee, on •;< i:i August next, and will be open to
the Shareholders.
For partie.oi-ars see Prospectus, which may he
had upon application to J. .J. ROBERTS, Secre-
tary. Box >. {. i ! <> ft -office, Gou I burn. Local Agents
™ appointed in most of the principal Towns of
Send Stamp for Prospectus,
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Conip 3l
CONTRACTS will be undertaken Wjj
Company to bore any, sized holes,
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF RE
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 F'A
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHM|
The Company, in all cases, will
fuel and water for drilling purposes,
no charge for loss of diamonds or wW
plant, and wili also provide workmenol%,
13?” The new duplex barrel, introdj# ,
colony by Mr. J. Coghlan, will he
charge to persons searching for nuner ™3_
Mr. Coglan has every confidence,
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drat Lg
be able to give general satisfaction, a 8"
despatch to all orders addressed to the 1
Temporary Offices, 311 George***|S
JOHN COGHLAN, x
General Manager, j
Singer’s Sewing Mac®*
turhehT & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents 0
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACT 11
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. ® ■
And no interest chabOEP.
10 per cent, off for cash.
{ST BEWARE OF IMITATION
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE
TURNER & COMPANY, y
353 George
THE ONLY “SINGER- j
Turner and ©ssrrsp^^.
OPPOSITE GENERAL POST 0 1
The Mercantile Bank
ESTABLISHED UN-
INCORPORATED by ACT OF pare:
of V
10$
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund..
Directors:
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
linn. Wm. Busby, M.L.C.
Jlon. Philip (Jidiey King, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq.
:jci#
Ch» il ' oi
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches: .in#
Haymarket, Pyrin ont, Kedlern, Gm
Gosford, Nyngan, and Jiourk
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of H.. c i
London Office: 158 Leadcnhafi' 8 ,.,.
Director: Edward Chapman, *
Agent: G. H. Alexander, L B4
This bank transacts all usual BankhJ^^e
cial Agency Business on the most lax
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made *| of
and other produce shipped to Engla liu
J. MASSEY & S°l
10 Park street
m
of
vi.^
10' cv ' er}
of re» o^
£O5
\ r
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT a
The Latest, most Popular Music i u
J. MASSEY & SON- jjf,
' 10 PARK STREET, SY p]S j
Pianos! Pianos! ~Pis
FREE TRADE and NO
MONO!
hP‘
Live and Lot Live, these are Out
It is a v. oil known fact that the Itfa
Colossal i ' names have been estahn® . jfCP 1
Profits arising- from (tie SALE Ol'l ..g VjJ
City during the past Twenty jA Co ll> ' : j&
ba\. ing little or no knowledge of tno. #>;. jj
and Details of the Pianoforte. M Vs 4*l
ruldic the benefit of our Mr. You™,* u,
personal practical experience (a Mlt
Bi o'adwood and Sons, London, and'd " rl rf
we will, at the same time, bo satish .pje, j[P
percentage on the Co-operative rfy W!
the Profits with ;ur Customers. W’jjfj
25 r cent, less an the same class i
ca bo Purchasi at any Music gh* TtyS
antcc.
uic-uas 1 ax any - l 0 v m
will ot* nothing for »a‘ o po r ,-j
---0. Ame rican Organs at K yloPfylr
lov prices. Also a barge Stock ox , 0 a
hire id Austrian Furniture, a , wkJ#! 1 '
~m ■ r «k4s*
C no and See Ou ITTLE R)P
mr aid Full iron Frune, at £2° 11
£lO oore, or under a Liberal Tim°
teU! ' - £
George E. Young 3"^*,
28s pitt sT pl '
South of Royal A rca‘ ic '
BRAUN'S WALT SI A R ;
TOOK FIRST
And all the Gold Medals at evC, 'V(pt
MADE ESPECIALLY 1
\ oA
Watchmaker, Jeweller, ~ $ r
g l ' an 6EOIIGE S T
. Near the Post Oili° e ' a
■aratcb'*
rhe Largest Stock of Waltham M aL
500 to select from-
Silver Waithams from • *
Gold Waithams from
Warranted from two to e v
Only at B. BRAUN, 376 oe


THE]
O-rea-t
CENTRE
OF THE
M
S 3
i
detail
Boot Tral
OF SYDNEY.
TS
JOHN HUNTER’S
i
The wants of the whole community are here supplied in a manner not hitherto attempted in this colony. Fashion and P raC^
Value, combined with the Lowest Prices ranging in the Australian Colonies.
EVERYBODY IS INVITED TO TEST THE TRUTH OF THIS STATEMENT
The Newest Styles and the Best Makes, combined with a Saving of 7s. 6d. in the £.
JOHN HUNTER’S CITY BOOT PALACE is supplied direct from the London and Parisian Houses, and an enormous busing
likewise done in the best description of Colonial Goods. Remember, that at Hunter’s City Boot Palace first commenced the b
Fall in the Price of Boots and Shoes,[resulting in a larger business being done at the City Boot Palace than at ony other ho^ sfi
Australia.
Note this Great Fact! 7s. 6d. in the £ Saved at Hunter’s City Boot Palace.
Large Fresh Supplies of Women’s and Children’s Boots at a Great Reduction in Price.
Ladies’ Fashionable Walking Boots, Ball-room Boots, &e., in a style not previously seen in Sydney. v
Splendid Line of Gentlemen’s English Sewn Boots, at London ™
Ladies ordering from any part of the colony will meet with immediate attention. A saving of about 10s. in the £ will thus be
Oriental Gold!
THIS Magnificent Metal—the latest discovery of
science—puts in the shade every substitute for
sterling gold ever offered to the public. The best
imitations heretofore produced are entirely super-
seded and surpassed by the
Brilliant Lustre and Enduring 1 Beauty
of the new alloy. So admirable is its appearance
and quality, that the discoverers have not stooped
to apply it to common uses. No tawdry articles of
inferior design are manufactured of ORIENTAL
GOLD. It is worked up into
JEWELLERY OF THE BEST CLASS AND MOST
TASTEFUL DESIGNS ONLY,
And is perfectly indistinguishable from the most
cosLy Tewellery.
The highest grades of Sterling Gold Jewellery
may be placed side by side with articles of Oriental
Gold, and the most experienced experts fail to dis-
tinguish one from the other.
The Oriental Gold Co.
Have Opened a
SYDNEY BRANCH IN GEORGE STREET,
Exactly opposite the Central Entrance to the Mar-
kets, where they have presented to public view
An Assortment of Unequalled Beauty
At Prices which represent only a fraction of the
cost of Sterling Gold Jewellery of Identical
Workmanship.
R ESIDENTS of SYDNEY and VISITORS from
the COUNTRY are respectfully invited to inspect
our Goods. We count it no trouble to show them,
and no injury if no purchase is made.
We are glad to have visitors, because we know
that our goods please everyone, and that those who
do not purchase will speak of our Jewellery to
their acquaintance in a way that will do us service.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST ON APPROVAL.
To save customers the trouble of compiling a
list, we make up useful and attractive lists as
follows
No. 1.
Gentleman’s Watch, horizontal movement,
Oriental Gold case, open face with crys-
tal glass, with handsome Oriental Gold
Albert, for "£3OO
This cut is the exact size
and appearance of
THE REVOLVER for ONE POUND !
A beautifully-finished article, nickel-plated through-
out, vulcanite stock. 32 calibre ; 5 shot.
Sent to any part of Australia or New Zealand for £l.
Oriental Gold Company, 474 George-st., Sydney.
No. 2.
Same as above, except that the watch has
hunting’ case, for 2 0 0
S 3?” Please observe. We do not pretend that
these are fifty-guinea watches ; but we no affirm
that they are good, honest watches, excellent time-
keepers, articles which do us credit and give satis-
faction to our customers. In appearance they arc
indistinguishable from expensive gold watches.
No. 3.
Gentleman’s Silver English Hunting Lever
Watch, capped and jewelled, with Ori-
ental Gold Chain £4 4 0
Oriental Gold Compass Charm .. ..0120
Tasteful Breast-pin, Oriental Gold .. ..076
Brilliant Alaska Diamond, Oriental Gold
King 076
Oriental Gold Shirt Studs, set of four ..086
£6 0 0
The watch in the above parcel is a first-class
article, such as is usually sold at from six to seven
guineas. We deal direct with the manufacturers,
and on a largo scale, and thus we get special terms,
and are enabled to share the advantage with our
customers. The Jewellery, wo need scarcely say,
can’t be told from sterling gold articles. The work-
manship is identical with the best. Thus, by buy-
ing this watch from us, purchasers, as a matter of
fact, secure the other articles as a free gift.
No. 4.
A genuine Waltham Watch, nickel case,
open face, crystal glass, as supplied to
the N.S. Wales Railway Department,
with splendid Oriental Gold Albert .. £3 0 0
fro. 5.
Same as No. 4, except that the Watch has
sterling silver hunting case, with chain
as before .. .. 3 10 0
Note.—We buy these watches by the thousand';
otherwise we could not sell them at the price.
Sportsmen, Bicyclists, Pedestrians ( and
Oarsmen—Observe 1
No. 6.
A Racing Chronograph nickel-cased watch,
double dials, splendid timekeepers,
with patent fly-back, marking quarter
seconds, with Oriental Gold Albert ..£4 0 0
No. 7.
Same as above, except that this case is
silver instead of nickel, with Oriental
Gold Chain .. ..550
Ladies ! Please Note.
No. 8.
.Aidy’s Oriental Gold Watch, handsomely
chased case, full jewelled, highly-
finished works, with handsome treble
chain, two slides and two tassels, of
Oriental Gold, only .. .. .. .. 215 0
The above is a gift which will astonish any re-
cipient. Each article is thoroughly good. The
action of the watch is identical with what is put
into sterling gold cases, of same' design, and sold
for £8 and £lO, and there is no difference in the
appearance.
No. 9. f w g»r
Lady’s Oriental Gold Brooch and Q f i- ;
Lady’s exquisite Necklet and Lock*- > ,• o
ental Gold .. .. .. 'A -‘A
Lady's gem sot Gold King- (real ston p
jiy 5 9
The above is a gift packet, SP OO^.#1 '
from our stock at specially low rate 3
ment.
The foregoing are but a few asso
fled to save customers the trouble o t 0 i' >
It will be sufficient when orderms q,
number of the lot, and enclose^
amount Payable to The Orient-*- 1 "
Specally Observe—lf the
swer expectation on receipt, rc-P a °
and send them back. If this is lio rj,
days, or, where mails arc few, jai ll { !
after receipt, and the articles are 11 tK
will return the money, deducting 0 p 1
expended on postage. You can
article and return the rest, and we
•n t e
■ W llJ
a r
money for the articles not kept. j fifl 1
Every watch sold by us will be ra q yerj
panied by a written warranty for
We have a very large stock of ® lirJ r c!l ,/
ladies and gent’s Alberts, Kings set
crystals, and Alaska diamonds, ° n
and Italian pearls ; Lockets, N eC^ e g 0
Fancy Charms, Breast-pins, Studs-
ti» r r f,
CP
P
iJIVUOIr ***-»» V.j*
Studs (some very splendid Alas^ 11
prices vary.
Send us from £1 to £lO, with
want, and we will make a cb° lC gfl i
best of our judgment and forWß*
approved, and immediately r ®
refund as above, or make any des 1
Note THE ADDRESS: 474 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Marked


fl CST ’ S Bo °T EMPORIUM, 404 Oeorge St.,
Gents' Bn , near King-street.
gupfrotn ii^ 8 ’^ 1 ' Calf or Kid, superior quality,
,B°ote sn Extra High Glace Kid Button
quality, from 10s. 6d.
? Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d
EURE
KA
Eureka Tobacco
PARAGON of perfection.
11l fc, iVK,t than the Finest.
BlJ r I Q^ aCC ° S
i NED TO ecltpse and supercede
onlyT i ALL ° THEtt BRANDS.
° combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
T^ :il SKA h ’> PL r G is STAMPED with the word
ak " " > other Smokoi ' s se e that you obtain it.
manufactured by
’i Titan Sl, Ik
AT the eagle works,
i c ail bo Alsn ) CLARENCE STREETS,
0 obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
1 Retail 1 ark-street, Sydney.
bo % a , e L ot ' ywh ere, and will be used by every-
soon as its merits become known.
E UREKA TOBACCO,
y, to Act of Parliament, to pro-
)llc ‘ a^aillBt spurious and worthless
rZ&Ar.
xtm
QjUEEI^SL AND GuRE :
I 5*- : 1
HPlall chest affections
mm
SW? W r.’i„ ln t} ie rising township of Wagga,
; ,H s ass BAKERY BUSINESS, flood
WyijCter A c *olasa connection. For sale cheap,
i.v,@ about to leave the district. Ap-
r ° st OiHce, Wagga Wagga.
If
& R, BRADFORD,
°^ General
blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY,”
1 2
1 L I
VERPOOL STREET,
and at
201 Elizabeth STREET,
Veen Bathurst and Park Streets.
I']?, 11 Castings, Wrought Iron
a tor plight and Cast Iron Girders, Cast
Connections, Water and Fire
Riv en tor all kinds of Ironwork, &o.
-
SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
%v liN f COMPANY (LIMITED),
Ca pital, £lOO,OOO.
follows:-SEVEN PER CENT
Cff.ol:Altrjy * or months; FIVE PER CENT.
tor shorter periods; FIVE PER
* ‘Wui,]., otn £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
e on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREIIAM, Manager.
r iMREER, & CO., DISTILLERS
l °Cli X) UST and GLASGOW.
’ Ver 7 oldest and purest Scotch
V C n Whiskey.
' J U r, * Cry olrlpsf, nml mirnst, Trish
,omest u
cry oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
and Australian Exhibitions.
n pure '
A, SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
G. ADAMS,
> and Flinders-st., Melbournne
%
15-
tr'%„ for and REFRESHMENT
. AI)IES an<l GENTLEMEN.
F? AiVprll oB has been especially attended
V < St us APARTMENT
0* s > & r .th Ja. for their sole use. It will be
OrfeiHi '’&e ltln S materials, daily papers,
®rW. '
S Jan'? in
can obtain, AT ALL HOURS,
M h -n .
liam, Beef, Tongue, Sar-
.or ( bo 'led Eggs, &e., &c.
with Light Refreshment,
| or Q , Co lb | |
co ‘ cbra,M
■American Iced Drinks.
MAWBY,
Proprietor.
■3£s2£i>3
VTItTUTTS GLOTUA MERGES .
COALGLIFF COAL,
This NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MTNE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Taira iist ? deßivered witbse city bounds.
This new Coai, with a good draught, and range and bars kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
more lasting, and cleaner fire that any other. It neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
Newcastle coal, nor does it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
of some kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
charcoal or,breeze lire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
some fumes given off by a breeze or gas lire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEBOT: WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
:o o i&r 13.
This establishment, so well known throughout the Australian Colonies, is now prepared
in addition to the usual FIRST-CLASS PORTRAIT WORK, to furnish the public, as well
as TOWIN' and COUNTRY TRADE, with Copies or Enlargements to Life Size from any
photograph or negative by any of the following processes Opals, Autotype, Transfer or
Alburnenized Paper, plain or coloured.
Prices on application at the Gallery, 252 GEORGE STREET, or by letter.
The same staff of Artists who have rendered the work of this establishment so famous
are employed, and all negatives taken for the past four years carefully preserved, from
which copies may be had on application.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
_
ALCOCK & CO.’S
ZBilllsurcL Teutoles.
J. GARDYNE, Agent.
105 DPltt Street, SsrcLrresr.
Time Payment System if required.
ic Bathing Establishment,
■ • ■«'
Corner of College & Oxford Sts., Hyde Park.
Or. Mackenzie errca. Co.,
(Late with BATT, RODD, and PURYES)
AUCTIONEERS, BROKERS, FINANCIERS, GENERAL AGENTS’, VALUATORS, &C.,
MINERVA CHAMBERS,
126 PITT STREET.
A CUP OF GOOD COFFEE
IS WIIAT YOU WANT, BUT SELDOM GET.
E3T" THEN ASK YOUR GROCER OR STOREKEEPER FOR
A. G. Churchwooa’s Grown Brana
s' BLENDED FROM THE FINEST MOCHA, JAMAICA, and CEYLON BERRIES.
FLEMING’S Carriage and Machinery Repository
32 and 33 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
<3-a,iet3T lESEotel
CORNER CASTLEREAGH & BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JANIES SM&RP,
Late of the Collonnade Hotel, corner of King and
Castlereagh Streets, desires to inform his friends
and the public generally, that he has removed to
the above Hotel, which has been lately known as
the “ Hyde Park Hotel,” and which he has tho-
roughly renovated. J. S. trusts that, bv his usual
strict attention to business, combined with the best
brands of Wines, Spirits, &c., to merit a fair share
of patronage. J. S. desires to state that he still
draws the famous
‘‘SILVER CUP BEER.”
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PORTMANTEAUX, BAGS,
ET" TRUNKS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Have just opened a large Shipment of Superior
HOSIERY, MERCERY, SCARFS, TIES,
COLLARS, and EVERY REQUISITE
FOR GENTLEMEN’S TOILETS.
SHIRTS
Cut after the Latest London Styles, by an expe-
rienced London Cutter:
N.B.—Country Orders receive Special Attention.
A. A. DEBNEY & CO.,
Successors to Hobson and Whiting,
13 HUNTER STREET.
YDKOPiT H Y.— MR. JOSEPH REEVE,
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, Colds Acute or Chronic Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis, Liver
Complaint, Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases. All persons who are suffering,
and Aveary of using physic, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A feiv weeks’
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladies and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment. Terms on
application.
“TliroAV physic to the dogs, I’ll none of it.”—
Shakespeare.
“Purification in the old law did save life.” Midton.
Address:
8 Royal Terrace, Nicholson Street,
FITZROY, MELBOURNE.
',v " - k ■
MCLLIN ER, LEAMINGTON.— STAN-
HOPE PHAETONS ; DOG, TANDEM, and
SPORTING CARTS; Barouches, Laudaus, Coaches*
Harness, &c., Builder to H.M. the Queen, H.I.M.
the Empress of Austria, His Grace the Duke
of Beaufort, &c., &c. Orders telegraphed (305.)
and executed in seven Aveeks. English prices.
Coloured designs of latest fashions kept in stock.
WILKINSON, WILLIAMS & CO.,
Hoyle’s Chambers, Bond Street, Sydney,
Sole Agents for Australia, Noav Zealand, Tasmania.
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, N atural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. B.—New Series
SATURDAY, JULY 7, 1883.
Price —6d.
The Bulletin.
Lawyers and Journalists.
SATURDAY, JULY 7, 1883.
Mb. Owen, Q.C., created, we are told, some
amusement by remarking that, if the news-
papers went on as they have been doing,
they would soon have to be suppressed.
Their eonduet, said this lawyer, had been
most reprehensible. His Honor Mr. Justice
Faucett had given the oue by regretting
that the Press had commented as it had done
upon the case of Mason and Another versm
Watson and Another. The occasion was the
granting of a rule calling upon the success-
ful plaintiffs to show cause why a new trial
should not be granted. The suggestion of
“suppression” was possibly Mr. Owen’s idea
of 4 wholesome fun.” That sort of jooularity
has been so highly extolled by Mr. D abbey,
Q.C., and Mr. Owen had been deolared by
Judge Innes such a master of humour, that
itseems quite probable he, as Mr. Watson’s
counsel, felt it incumbent upon him to sus-
tain his reputation for forensic jooularity—
always within canonical limits. But Mr.
Owen’s fun fitted so neatly with his own
and Judge Faucett’s seriousness, that it be-
comes as difficult in this instance to distin-
guish his jest from his earnestness, as it was
on the occasion which earned for him the
critical encomia of Sir George Innes to
recognise the subtle wit which tioked that
easily amused dignitary. It is not easy to
recognise either the humor or the wholesome-
ness of a suggestion that there should be a
curtailment of the already desperately re-
stricted rights of the Press to comment upon
matters of public interest. Mr. Owen’s wit
has the same sobering and saddening effect
as the weekly coruscations of the author of
“ Shandridan Papers” in the Tribune. We
wonder whether it would be grossly libellous
to accuse Mr. Owen of being the author of
these dismal lucubrations. We observe
that our contemporaries treat Mr. Owen’s
remarks as a serious expression of
opinion. We prefer to regard them as the
emanation of a heavy humour, stimulated
into ordinary friskiness by the encomia of
the appreciative Jo. We are unwilling to
believe that any educated man could evince,
in this year of grace eighteen hundred and
eighty-three, so much inborn lcve for the
dead-and-gone tyranny of a century ago, as
to wish to restore the Press disabilities which
were in vogue in the days of our grand-
fathers. It would, perhaps, be scarcely deli-
cate to speak of graudfathers at all in con-
nection with some persons in this community,
who seem to have the servility of the
prisoner blended with the arrogance of the
warder, bred in their very bones. In the
present instance there is no occasion lor
nicety in this respect, but the iuea is worthy
of general attention. It seems to furnish
about the only philosophical or physiological
explanation of the circumstanoe that, in
New South Wales, there exists a stronger
disposition on the part of men in authority,
and privileged guilds, to chafe at the barriers
to i ascality on the one hand and to uncon-
trolled power on the other, than can be
discovered in any other part of the British
dominions.
# * *
We don’t affirm that it is only scoundrels
in fact or in inclination who resent the free
discussions of the newspapers. The disposi-
tion may be discovered on the part of very
worthy members of society. There are men
whose whole lives have been devoted to
honest endeavours to do their duty honestly;
and it might be supposed that no suoh men
would be found in the ranks of the enemies
of a Free Press. But, unfortunately, from
whatever cause, the contrary is true. While
doing their duty fearlessly and well, it has
bef alien that some such men have been misre-
presented and censured, on totally unsustain-
able grounds. They have been held up to
obloquy and derision when they knew that
they merited the thanks and applause of the
■community. We don’t know of any parti-
cular instance. But we do know by the
inductive process that such cases must have
been. While the Press ranges freely over
i "the surface of evemts and draws current
i deductions from ephemeral combinations of
aots and appearances, it is inevitable that
there must be occasional false inferences
and unmerited aspersions. That these should
rankle is natural enough. But the point is
this: A man may be good without being
.great. A worthy mau of narrow calibre is
MR. JUSTICE HARDING, QUEENSLAND SUPREME COURT.
apt to resent an injustice to himself and to
magnify his own grievance until it shuts out
his vision of all else. A great and good man
recognises his own place in the social
economy much better, and is able to recog-
nise that it is not for him to rage and repine
because called upou to experience in every
particular the common lot of men—and
verbs—to be, to do, and to suffer. Such a
man would never for an hour let his own
resentments or pique obscure his sense of the
general principle that it were better he
passed his whole existence misunderstood and
maligned, his virtue painted as vice, than
that society as a whole should be deprived
of one jot of the grand advantages derived
from the free and untrammelled discussion
from every point of view of publio men and
public measures. The Press is a human
institution. Its voioe is the utterance of mere
men, fallible like their fellows, subject to all
the imperfections of humanity, liable to
the distorting influence of prejudice, the
embitterments of spleen, and the blinding
effects of passion. But as a rule the utter-
ances of any considerable newspaper are
intelligent and honest. Whatever point
of view a matter is treated from, the
delineation is usually that of an artist.
Newspaper proprietors seek intelligence
in the open market, and for their em-
ployment men generally are preferred
in proportion to their proved ability.
A fool may stumble into an editorial position
now and again, but he can’t hold his ground
any more than a pretentious fraud can do
“ leading business ” on the stage. A news-
paper man’s work, like an actor’s efforts, is
always m evidence, and perpetually under-
going public criticism. The influence of a
newspaper is, almost universally, propor-
tionate to the ability with which it expresses
its views. One need not go outside of Sydney
to learn that a journal conducted without
talent languishes, and secures but a limited
hearing and consideration. In this way a
newspaper is a representative of public
opinion. According as its opinions harmon-
ize in a greater or less degree with those of
the public, its influence is great or small.
People will not persist in supporting a news-
paper which offends their sense, or irritates
their minds by inculcating opinions anta-
gonistic to their convictions.
* * *
There is really only one power which oan
in a free community “ suppress” any insti-
tution. And that power is vested in the
people at large. Neither the Bench nor the
Bar possess the requisite authority. They
are themselves mere dependents upon
public toleration or approval. They are
in no sense representative institutions.
In that respect the Press has a distinct
advantage over them. For the Bar to
menace the Press with extinction is not only
an outrage but an absurdity. True, the
heads of the Bar, on their elevation of the
Bench, are now invested with executive
powers to which the Press cannot pretend.
But those powers are a trust. They are
delegated powers, founded upon the free
consent of the community which supports
also the Press. If a question of suppression be
raised, it is a two-edged sword which is
hauled out of the scabbard. The Bench may
wield it for a moment, but at any instant it
is liable to be snatched from that grasp, and
the direction of its strokes reversed by the
real owner, the people. If it came to a
choice of suppression, between the privileged
and non-representative guild of lawyers,
and the unprivileged but representative
open brotherhood of the Press, against
which is it most likely that the master of
both —the public—will turn the edge ? Let
us say that the Press is sometimes wrong;
that its striotures are occasionally mis-
directed, its tone bumptious, and its attacks
scurrilous. It is amenable to the common
law. It cannot shelter behind a caste-privi-
lege. Every man has his remedy. It has
never pretended to more, never pleaded for
more, than the right to claim exemption
from punishment, provided it can show that
its challenged utterances were called forth
by a care for the general welfare, and that
when it smote, it smote not from malicious ,
private motives, or for gain, but that by
the deserved pain of one, many might
be saved from injury. All it has asked is
that superhuman accuracy be not required
of it—that it be not held accountable for the
exact weight of its blow, provided it be
shown that it struck with reasonable dis-
cretion, with honest purpose, and for the
public good. This is surely no tyranny that
the public would groan under—no curse to
be suppressed as an intolerable evil.
• «
It is easy to conceive how the Press could
become an unbearable infliotion deserving
of suppression, sooner or later. Imagine a
league or guild of journalists to be instituted,
hedged around by exclusive aud semi-pro-
hibitory barriers, such as made it a close
borough which no man could enter, no matter
what his natural qualifications and aptitude,
unless he submitted to special pupilage and
started with peculiar advantages and oppor-
tunities of easy circumstances in early life.
Suppose that, once within the pale, he was
when exercising his profession specially
exempt from the laws relating to libel aud
slander which applied to every other indivi-
dual and class in the community. Suppose
that the only restraint limiting his abuse of
such immunities were such as was imposed
by the interference of veterans of his own
guild, elevated to positions of distinction
within it, but always allied to it by a life of
journalism and a retrospective sympathy.
And suppose, in continuation, that in lieu of
being bound by every consideration sacred
and secular—by the force of public opinion
and terror of legal penalties, and the influ-
ence of self-respect—to plead only causes
which he truly believed to be honest and
true, he were to announce himself a public
prostitute, for sale to the first sufficient
bidder. What, then, could he reply to a
threat of suppression ? What could he oppose
to a rising of general scorn and abhorence?
He, whose opinions were purchasable, who
stood in the public market ticketed with a
price; for sale to any knave who brought
money—money stained with blood,* soiled
with fraud, sweating with oppression, or


stamped with forgery—in his hand! He who
stood confessed, a ready barterer of the
abilities granted by his Maker, for lucre!
He, who habitually, and without a blush or
a sign, hired his intellect, and traded in
simulated pathos, in forged soorn, in mock
sentiment, as often to rivet a wrong as to
support a right!
* * *
The traditions of the Press are such that a
creature of thp kind would be soouted from
its ranks. The public expect from journal-
ists a higher standard of principle and self-
respect, and the journal whioh sold its in-
fluence and talent would soon have no in-
fluence to sell. But what would be infamous
in a journalist, is no disgrace to a lawyer.
The traditions of the legal profession are not
so elevated as to make it an infamy for a
man to hire himself to serve the cause of
vice and chicanery. If the question be
raised, which shall be suppressed—a Press
which advocates only that which it believes
to be just and true, and assails only that
which it believes to be pernicious, or Courts
which clothe themselves with the name of
justice, but deal in legal lotteries, in which
only one thing is ever oertain, that is, that
the keepers of the tables secure a fat per-
centage of the stokes; which will the public
be likely to extinguish ?
One Farthing—and Costs.
The jury in the case Davies v. Harris
awarded the plaintiff one farthing, that
being their estimate of the injury sustained
by the distinguished plaintiff by the allega-
tions of the defendant that he, John
Davies, C.M.G., had, in fact, obtained certain
moneys by false pretences. His Honor the
Judge has supplemented this verdict by a
decision that in addition to the farthing, the
defendant shall pay all the costs of the trial
—probably a couple of thousand pounds.
This is the second time that a similar ver-
dict, given under nearly identical condi-
tions, has been practically set aside by
the Judge who presided at the trial. The
contention of the Bench on the previous
occasion was that all it had to consider was
whether the case was a proper one to be
heard in the Supreme Court. If that were
so, the Judge had no option but to give costs.
By what legal refinement this is reconciled
with the fact that, in Victoria, Judge Wil-
liams, in the case of Hunt v. Syme, where a
verdict for a farthing was given, refused to
certify for costs, we don’t care to inquire.
The broad fact is what concerns the public.
The administration of the law in this colony
has come to such a pass that the amount of
a verdict is in many cases of minor import-
ance to a decision respecting costs. A jury
may decide one thing, and the presiding
Judge immediately give a decision which
practically reverses the verdict of the jury.
The real anxiety in a bogus case of slander
or libel is not terminated by the verdict. It
only then commences. The grand considera-
tion is, who shall pay the lawyers?
• •
But, supposing it to be granted that the
ruling relative to costs is governed by the
consideration whether a suit was a proper
one to bring into the Supreme Court, still
there are anomalies. We have, for instance,
a distinguished man, at one time or other
leader in numerous associations, one of the
people’s representatives in Pailiament and
in a Metropolitan Corporation, a man seleot ed
for honour by his Sovereign. He is assailed
by rumours as numerous and varied in de-
tail as they are uniform in their tenor—
that tenor being to ascribe to him con-
duct and proceedings which would cast dis-
grace upon the meanest gutter-snipe. Of
these floating aspersions, one or two are
definitely and publicly stated as open accu-
sations by another man also occupying public
station. Here we have surely a case for the
highest tribunal in the land. The defendant
thinks so, apparently ; for, on being brought
to Court, he requires more than the or-
dinary tribunal. He is not satisfied with
the special characters of the Court,
but demands also a special jury. So far,
and throughout the trial, everything is
momentous aud solemn. But the jury sud-
denly change the tune. They are appealed
to “ in the name of the Prophet,” and their
verdict is “ Figs !” They estimate the dam-
age done at one farthing! This creates a
dilemma. On the one hand it seems clear
that the Supreme Court is the proper tri-
bunal to deal with so grand a thing as the
reputation of a distinguished public man.
But on the other, it equally seems clear that
the Supreme Court is not the proper tribunal
to be occupied with a dispute about farthing-
worths.
* * i
It strikes us that there is a very easy way
out of the dilemma, if judges would only
condescend to the level of ordinary mortals,
aud allow their eobwebbed intellects to be
swept by the broom of common sense. And
there is nothing revolutionary about the
means of escape wo have in view. It is
simply that the verdict of the jury should be
accepted as deciding whether a case was a
proper one to bring before the Supreme
Court. To a certain extent, this plan is
already recognised and in actual practice.
If a verdict be given for an amount exceed-
ing £lO, costs go with the verdict as a matter
of coursw. There seems no reason why there
should not be fixed a sum, or a proportion
of the amount sued for, a verdiot for less
than which would involve the payment of
their own costs by each of the parties to a
suit.
• • •
Reviewing a few of the points, we see that
a case may at the outset appear one proper
for trial in the Supreme Court. We see,
also, that when the broad issues are stated,
the propriety of having the ease dealt with
by the highest tribunal possible seems in-
controvertible. And finally, we disoover
that in the end, after the time of the court
has been occupied perhaps for weeks, a de-
cision of the jury may put quite a different
face upon matters, and distinctly settle that
the injury, or whatever has been the subject
of proceedings, has been either pretty fully
deserved, or trumpery. A public reputation
may appear a very big thing till investiga-
tion has pricked it, and then everybody may
discover that it was but a bladder. It really
seems that when owners of bladder-reputa-
tions impose them upon the Supreme Court
as substantial realities, they obtain the at-
tention of the Court on false pretences, and
embezzle its time, which should be given to
matters of more real solidity. When a man
thrusts his affairs and drags another into
the Supreme Court, it should be distinctly
provided that he does so at his own risk, and
that if he has grossly exaggerated the im-
portance of his grievance, or absurdly over-
estimated the extent of his injury, he should
at least be made to pay his own costs, As
the practice now exists, under the benign and
sagacious guidance of Sir W. Manning and
Sir J. Gr. Innes, backed by Sir James Martin>
there are cases in which it is impossible for a
jury to do justice, strive how they may. The
weight of the award lies outside their ver-
diot, and beyond their control. They can-
not, for example, give a verdict which will
tally with their belief that a case is probably
true but “not proven,” or that both parties
are equally to blame. The nearest approach
they can make to this is a verdict for a plain-
tiff for one farthing. If they go a farthing
better for the defendant, by giving him a
clear verdict, they know that the plaintiff
will certainly have to pay all costs. And, as
matters are managed by our Judges, if they
give him the farthing the Judge steps in and
makes it, in fact, a verdict for thousands
of pounds. This condition of affairs is an
enormity, and degrades our highest court to
a place where, in som > suits for slander or
libel, justice cannot by any possibility be
done—a place where the only thing worth
contending about is who shall pay the
lawyers’ fees ?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Dig at Marsh.
When an action of a high official is taken without
any appearance of initiative, and especially when
it is an eccentricity and altogether a departure
from regular grooves, the public reasonably infer
that a motive power has been at work below
the surface of things- It is thus that the Premier’s
extraordinary departure with respect to Mr t
Marsh, Stipendiary Magistrate, and in relation to
the fine inflicted by that officer in open Court upon
Moore, the Botanical Gardener, has given rise
to considerable speculation. The case created
a good deal of interest at the time it came before
Mr. Marsh, and must be fresh in many memories.
Mr. Moore, the Curator of the Public Gardens,
was summoned to answer a charge of having used,
towards a visitor to the Gardens, language cal-
culated to occasion a breach of the peace*
Mr. Moore had come across this visitor with
his wife leaning in his arms, and had in-
stantly assumed that he had before him an in-
stance of larrikin indecorum. His accost was
toned accordingly. The person thus addressed,
however, swore that his wife had been attacked
with indisposition, and he deposed to the use by
Mr. Moore of expressions the employment of
which seemed to indicate that the Curator was not
above combatting larrikins with their own lingual
weapons. On the evidence before him, Mr. Marsh
inflicted a fine upon Mr. Moore, who was defended
by Mr. Edmunds, a young barrister. The Colonial
Secretary appears to have been induced to take
the extraordinary course of inviting this same Mr.
Edmunds to sit in judgment upon Mr. Marsh, and
when, as might have been expected, the lawyer
reported that his client had been unjustly con-
demned, Mr. Stuart went to the extreme of
endorsing this opinion with a strong expression of
acquiescence, thus conveying a direct censure of
the magistrate. This proceeding is so unprece-
dented that the public is quite curious to learn
what may have been the potent reason which
influenced the Premier of the colony to select for
special treatment of this particular sort one among
the hundreds of eases disposed of by Mr. Marsh in
the period which elapsed since Mr. Stuart acceded
to office. It is to be expected that some member
of Parliament will ask for information when the
Assembly again meets.
♦
Gosford Geese.
Gosford seems a place quite too small for the
great men who inhabit it. Among these is, or
was, a bailiff of the Small Debts Court, who, being
discovered in the arms of a young woman, was
dismissed from his important position—in the
Service. The young woman, abashed, made for
the river, was apparently intercepted, and was
charged with an attempt to commit suicide. The
two magistrates on the bench, after offering bail
if an uncle would tako the young woman away,
refused it when tendered by a more distant rela-
tive backed by the local schoolmaster. The last
named promptly reported the bench to the
Minister for Justice, by telegram. The Minster
prudently declined to interfere. Next the bench
got level with the schoolmaster by reporting him,
through the medium of the Police Magistrate, who
had been absent during the hearing of the case,
and who is cruel enough to refer to the Evening
News as “a scurrilous Sydney paper.” (Mem.: A
scurrilous paper is a paper which one doesn’t like.)
The Police Magistrate’s report was referred to the
District Inspector attached to the Education De-
partment, who, after calling upon the school-
master for an explanation, reported that the
trouble was probably an outoome of prior un-
pleasantness between the schoolmaster and one of
the magistrates, due to the former having sus-
pended the magistrate’s son from attendance, in
consequence of repeated insolence and insubordi-
nation. The Inspector further stated that the
schoolmaster enjoyed wide-spread and sincere
esteem in the district, owing to his manliness,
courtesy, and kindness of heart, and that his inter-
esting himself on bohalf of the unhappy girl was
quite in accordance with that reputation. Here
the matter stood, until the schoolmaster wrote,
asking permission to take legal steps with regard
to the Police Magistrate’s statements. Then the
trouble broke out afresh. The Police Magistrate
was called upon for a fresh report which he supplied
in a voluminous missive, remarkable for embodying
assumptions that it is net voluminous but vir-
tuously brief, and for sav igeJy pitching into the
schoolmaster as “a vory e merited, restless, self-
taught man, illiterate evoi: for a village school-
master, with an apparon rraida for writing and
rashly intermeddling, a ;-->>■ utcer tribune of the
people, and constantly i : r.*.t water.” There is
also a broad limit that the * *IJ u and fierce advo-
cacy of the man -(the s:*a' • •’•Minster named)—is a
curious if not a suggesti-r cir.' ;:nstance, in view
of the girl’s giddiness. Tu„- o*e letter blazes
with animosity, and is r* -.orf uumorous by a
statement that tbf schooln. rte 1* a“voryoffen-
.sive intermeddler, but has neve, rtsou to the level
of my (the P.M.’s) indignation.” From which it
appears that the P.M. is a vrrv superior and
haughty person, even for a vihu'-o Justice, and
that it is only high-bred offeu b-rs who can warm
his blue blood to the point of 'r, donation. Under
these circumstances weares:;. miam that his letter
was not much calmer.
The refusal of the Imporia imh'.i dies to endorse
the annexation of New G i *ea uy Queensland,
supported as Sir Thomas .tf’ii vVraith’s action
has been by the Govomme ?'.*• ah the Australian
Colonies, is the first touor* of the .hand of steel
under the gloveof British derm eition. The Home
Government had no hesllmon ahout spending
soveral millions, and saeriiieing thousands of
human lives, to annex (fot *,bnlV wt.at it amounts
to) Egypt, against the wil: it tni Ngypfian people,
yet virtuously refuses to :.>uutennrux. the blood-
less and costless inclusio • it Now G Gnea in the
Empire.
At cross purposes. Adelaide embonpoint
Servant Girl airily to pro?:motive Mistress re wages:
—“ Well, what’s your Ago re?" Prospective Mistress
with extreme acidity, “ Nothing so full as your s.”
Don’t use stimulant?, hut nature’s brain
and nerve food—Hop Bit! vs. See.
A few days ago o-.e of our tram-guards
was discovered starting off to work with nothing
but his cap and boots or* Being hauled up and
questioned why this was thus, he simply replied
that the present Ministry of action hadn’t quite
decided as to the exact cut of his pants and ulster.
Great excitement at the Literary Institute,
Braidwood, seven members having called a meet-
ing, for the fifth timo, to close the reading-room
on Sunday. Of course, they wore defeated. It's
very strange that these super-pious people are so
dull; they can never see that the world is daily
losing its old superstitions.
Near Braidwood are five of the original
proprietors of the soil of N.S.W. They have their
ancient jins w ; th them. We spell it with aj, be-
cause the English people have got into the habit of
pronouncing them with a hard g. The jokers have
called one “Mr. Hunt,” and another “Mr. Wal-
lace.” But both gentlemen are in indigent circum-
stances—one of them too thin to move, the other
blind. The Aborigines’ Protector has undertaken to
furnish them with an allowance somewhat short of
what the Court of St. Germain’s furnished to James
11., or St. James to Arabi Pasha. Jt runs: 81b. flour,
3 do. sugar, and J4lb. of tea.
How did Alfred miss this? Last Saturday
night a fearful, and it was once feared fatal, acci-
dent happened to the Parramatta train. Owing to
some unaccountable negligence on the part of the
authorities the 10’30 p.m. train from Sydney arrived
in the “oldest city ” punctually at its proper time.
Of course, this unusual occurrence caused the
greatest consternation amongst the inhabitants;
but by dint of superhuman exertions matters have
since been rectified, and now the trains run just as
late as ever. Old King, the “ Flying Pieman, once
matched himself to carry a sheep and walk to
Parramatta before the steamer, and he won by 11
minutes. Wouldn’t he snigger in his shroud to-day
if someone matched him to run the train?
The Hermaoos Penitents, a new Mexican
sect, numbering about 3000, have this year been
purifying themselves by torture. We quote a
single paragraph from a long account. A march
of half-naked men and women was being performed
under the stimulus of raw bull-hide whips: —“ Dur-
ing the march not a groan was heard nor a word
spoken; but just before reaching the goal, a small
adobe hut, an ordeal was encountered which tried
the nerves of the boldest. For some distance
before the door cactus plants had boon thickly
strewed upon the ground, and, as the barefooted
cross-bearers approached it, one hesitated. In-
stantly half a dozen whips descended upon bis
bare shoulders, and with a bound he sprang into
the thorny plants, his every step ’id the footsteps
of his followers being marked wii, *od. As the
torture grew more terrible, the chan w louder
and the thongs fell with inorevigoui. bing
the door of the house, the procession * •ft
sight of—a sentinel guarding the enti-an i. d
only broken whips and poles and blood bort t-
nes’s of what transpired within. Issuing from , e
house, the procession re-formed and returned to
their house of worship ; and so the horrifying
exercises continued, —one band of penitents suc-
ceeding another until night, when a grand pro-
cession and chant wound up the exercises for the
day.” Will the Salvation Harmy go in for this sort
of mortification of the tiesh ?
The Rates of Subscription ro The Bulletin,
are—For one year, 245.: naif .rear, Ids. ; quarter, 6s.
The Advertising Raj ks are se. per inch ;
special positions In tbe paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on eontin.ious advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for Id consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: Foi US o-oriseentive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for allnuale or intermittent in-
sertion.
Next week The TUtlletin will be
issued in a single coloured cover, and in lieu of
the second coloured sheer then will besubstituted
four additional pages In the body of the paper.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“ J.H.” (Mudgee): Reference was made to
the case in our last issue— “ Rex ”: Muoh obliged.
...” Down the Harbour ”: A strong-minded woman
and an invertebrate man. When he speaks he says
“ We;” when she speaks, she says “I. —“ J.W. :
The publication exists, dear sir, because it has a
future. It must have a future. It has no present;
it has worked out its past bv “ travelling on the
Back-blocks it is noiv surely but discounting its
inheritance...." L.J.W.”: The apparatus in use at
the average colonial mine probably saves a good
deal less than 50 per cent, or the gold in the stone.
Electricity is looked to as the agent which will
ultimately solve the problem of now to save the
balance “ Religion ”: A capital story. Write
often—on one side of the paper—“ Charlie”: Al-
ways welcome...." Cigarette 1 ’: Will write you in a
day or tw0...." Rutherford” (Melbourne): Always
glad to hear from you “Jaek Medler”: Many
thanks. Fijian information will be very welooine.
“w. W.”: Yes, there is a railway in Gippsland.
You can go by rail from Melbourne to Sale—
“ Townsvflleite”: Do you think we run a paper for
idiots ? If you have quite made up what you have
instead of a mind, that we do, let us know, and we
will post you u copy free. We should like to have
one idiot on our suibscribers’ list. So far, the other
papers have got them all “S.N.”: Thanks
“ Winks”: Capital idea, but too late. Try again.
“New Zealander”: Will publish in next issue—
“G.J.L.”: Please call at this office—“F.M.” :
Thanks..,,“Mrs. K.”*: Thanks “G.L.N.”: Not
worth printing “A.J.D.”: Obliged, but already
furnished by afriend....“E.W.W.”: Afraid your
yarn is too long “ Coonanbara”: Verses very
poor . "J.R.” (Carlton): Good versification, but
ot no special interest. ..“ Hexcelsior”: Wretched
imitation “Young Australian”: Certainly, send
along your best efforts—“ A.A.H.” (Moree) : If
we were to fill our columns with concerts “for the
Sunday School Fund,” we’d soon get to be a sen-
sational newspaper, like the Old Lady. No,
thanks “F.F. (Maitland): We are not hungry
for love sonnets. Send it to faithless Nelly herself.
If she reads your poetry she’ll be punished enough.
..“Mac.”: There’s nothing particular the matter
with your verses, only they have a lot of faults and
no merits. Don’t mac any more.. “F. Watt”: All you
want is a spolling-book and plenty of spare time. ..
“E. 5.8,”: We don’t think much of the fellow who
says “ I never go to church, but I pay 30s. in the
£, &c. We know lots of people who hold high
offices in the churches, and yet they only pay 6s.
“Agra”: It’s just this way. It you write a
decently legible hand you will stand a fair chance
of having your MS. read—“ Truth”: We don’t
care about anonymous Truth-tellers. They are
often first cousins to liars—“C.J.D.” Will see
about it. But, look here, “stately” doesn’t
rhyme with “ completely ” except in the Irish lan-
guage; and we don’t publish Irish verses.
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
We are desirous oi procuring short stories
of colonial interest, not exceeding one Bulletin
page. We are also desirous of receiving communi-
cations from ladies on subjects of social interest.
For such matters we are prepared to pay liberally.
Suggestions for sketches are always welcome.
Our old friend “The Vagabond” ia again
in Sydney—at Pfahlet’s.
Dr. Newbury, a resident of the Paterson
for twenty years, died on the way to England
Mr. John Murphy, late M.P.for Monaro, died a few
days ago near Bombala—Mrs. James Brown, who
recently died near Wagga, at a great age, had seen
a curious sight. Long ago, her husband kept a
circus, and one day a committee bought one ot his
horses to carry in triumph a newly-elected member
of Parliament at Beecnworth. To magnify the
triumph, the horse was actually shod and ridden
with four solid golden shoes. Mrs. Brown had
them for some years, but turned 'hem into coin
when the wolf peeped in at her door.
Coughs and Colds
f Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
1 and taken at bed-time.
JSF PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Siigli Bottle Diktat,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
■where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY,
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** TALE BRANDY,
6a. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS,
Market Street, Sydney.


PEPPER AND SALT.
* t nndon paper states that the Duke of
* .wont has been offered the Governorship of Vie-
+he termination of the Marquis of Nor-
t°ria on The Victorian people will bo too
for anything when they get a real Royal
Pr r ?rhness-even though in pieoes-among them.
rtfhiB information be true, it s about time they
in a Bath chair and an elastic bed ready.
er won« however, it would save trouble to shift
the government House to the hospital.
We have several sugges-
tions to make ccmoerning the
We are living near it
now, at Manly Beach, and wo
hove been struck with the
immense amount of force
thera is going to waste on the
beach all day long. As a spec-
tacle? we consider the sea has
been overrated; though at
Hmes it deserves considerable
credit. At noon on a clear day,
when the sun sets a diamond
m the crest of every wave,
the sea is quite a respectable
sighb But at night, when the
skies are moonless, it takes a
terrible guise. Then the great
grey breakers come blunder-
ing shoreward, as if with the
intent to drag out with them
and 'drown in the black deeps
t?ery living thing upon the
Ihore. And the white fringe
of ghostly foam along the
coast looks then like the sea
grinding its teeth in rage at
having missed its victims. At
such &, if It is not too late,
we always go and take a drink
in steady our nerves. But,
talking of the waste of force,
what £ splendid idea it would
be to build a fence right in
the middle of the breakers,
and hang soiled linen on it !
The dash of the waves would
wash the linen, and the gay
laundress could in the mean-
time be coquetting on the
Corso with the owner pi the
linen, who had come out really
to watch it, but os.tens bly
with the purpose of inhaling
ozone. This is not all, however.
AVe would propose to make
the sea musical. It sings its
own song in an uncultivated
kind of way as it is,. but- we
would suggest that It should
be made to play it own ac-
companiment. This would be
an easy matter. J ust lay rows
of pipes along the shore on
the mouth-organ principle,
and the thing is done. We are
pleased to see that the Manly
municipality have laid one
such pipe already. And then,
again, what a mighty innova-
tion it would be to convey the
sound of the surge through a
huge telephone, and use it as a
background tor the music of
such an oratorio as—say, the
“ Creation J” We know that we
are parting with wealth at
every sentence in giving away
these ideas gratuitously, but
wo don’t care. We are weary
of wealth. We are tired of
fame. All we want now is to
see D. B. W. Sladen once
and die. Oh, and before we
finish, we must tell you ihat
we suggested this notion of
utilising the wave-force to a
local Edison. He acted upon
it in quite an ingenious man-
ner. He made a little surf-bout,
fixed a ring in a rock about
twenty yards above high-water
mark, got apiece of rope about
a hundred yards long, tied one
end to the ring and the other
to the boat, and then proposed
to let the latter out for surl-
rides at sixpence a time. The
underwash would, of course,
carry it out, and the inward
rush would carry it In. We
went down to the beach to see
him try the machine. He said
he was confident of success,
but he wanted us to make the
first trip. We thought this,
however, belonged of right to
the inventor, and told him so,
which view of the case he
finally agreed with. Before
starting, he informed us that
he reckoned to be able to make
money enough to bo able to
retire upon with the concern.
The result showed that he was
right. He retired so far that
we have never seen him since.
He is probably somewhere
around the South Pole by this
time. We have a lot more
ideas of this kind. We are
keeping them for the benefit
of bailiffs.
A prominent citizen —of course not any
Sydney man—has lately joined the Blue Ribbon
Army, and he wears its embleni conspicu-
ously in his sinister button-hole. The natural
result of such an operation has manifested itseil
only too quickly. He associates with , despises
water, and sedulously cultivates au abnormal
appetite for fermented liquors. But, though on
tne whole, the remonstrances of friends have been
successfully resisted, and a state of chronic semi-
inebrity happily attained, a lurking dread has em-
bittered the merriest cup. Our friend with an
enlarged experience, with childish ignorancesd dis-
pelled, with the Eternal Verities standing or try-
ing to stand right by his elbow, feels a shadow
looming in front —a grisly phantom —an unpleas-
ant companion—a restless agitator— D.l., in fact,
otherwise known as jim-jams. Coming home not
long ago, after an extra convivial evening, he
waded upstairs, unsteadily opened the bedroom
door, and was able to divine intuitively, rather
than distinguish intelligently, that the gas-light
was turned down very low, and that the sharer of
his couch, and of his joys and sorrows, but not ot
pis jim-jams, was between the sheets. So far,
then, he had grasped actualities. Suddenly our
triend felt something slippery and wriggly under-
foot. He looked down. His long-abiding fear had at
fast assumed tangible shape I He saw it. He felt
tt. He scrunched a number 14 bopt round on the
earpet, but the slimy thing twisted itself about, the
uppers and threatened to embrace his ancle. 1 here
could be no mistake ! He heard the gurgling hiss
yhich marks tho properly-developed serpent.
Maria 1 Maria 1” he roared, “ I’ve got ’em at last !
*ve got ’em at last.” Maria woke. He yelled
enough to wake a congreg ition. She sat up in
bed and gazed reproachfully at the lurid bacchanal.
“I’ve got ’em, Maria, my dear ; I’ve got ’em at
last 1 ” “What have you got?” quoth Maria,
> beginning to feet alarmed. “ Snakes ! Snakes !
See ! See ! Got up and smash him. See !” Maria
arose, considerably undressed, and found the
bedroom poker. Then she advanced. “Now,
what is it?” “Oh, Maria, I’ve got ’em!
Snakes ! Snakes !” Maria came near, tremblingly.
“ Hit him, Maria I Smash him, Maria ! Break his
back, Maria !” “ Why, you fool,” rejoined Maria,
after a moment’s inspection, ‘ you’re treading on
tho tube of baby’s feeding-bottle!” And so he was.
• • •
In answer to numerous enquiries, we may
mention that the correct way of spelling the name
of the first month of the year is J-a-n-u-a-r-y, not
Janery as Dr. Johnson has it, nor Jannury as
Webster prints it, nor Jannuerrey as Dr. Arnold
used to spell it. It takes its name from Janus,
who was a two-faced Roman deity. He presided
over the beginning of everything, and was always
invoked first, even before Jupiter, who was a sort
of Lord Mayor of all tho gods. Janus also presided
over gates—but not over railings,—especially dur-
ing the time of shows or triumphal processions;
hence he was also surnamed Patulcus, or “the
opener,” and Clusiux, or “the shutter.” On the
festival days of this two-faced deity the people
made presents of sweetmeats, fruit—especially
oranges,— copper and iron coins, rings, and costly
head-wreaths. The sacrifices offered to Janus con-
sisted of Janucd (a sort of cake, or bun), fruit, and
wine—probably unfermented. He was a great god
HIS (HAUNTED) HONOR; or, GRANNY AND SIR JOE.
in those days, but the only use his statues are put
to now is lo ornament ouf door-scrapers—to em-
bellish the things on which we wipe our feet.
* * V
The Judges, it is alleged, held a corro-
boree as to the expediency of hauling up the
Sydney Echo for contempt of court re its remarks
on the summing-up of Judge Innes in the Ander-
son libel-case. If the Supreme Court wants some
good cues for contempt, it had better look up the
country papers. Mudgee lias a journal which is
scandalously irreverent. Thus
“ But on North Shore a wonder, lo!
That this of old surpasses—
Two steeds more just than Holy Joe
And his twelve special asses!
What else expect but sickening shooks
And Snufflebusting fudges;
With shoddy asses in the box
And canting windbags judges ?”
How is it that the country press is allowed to
write in this insolent way ? How is it that the
judges take no notice of the bucolic miscreants
who alternate shingle - splitting and milking
cows with turning the handle of the double
demy which thus foully slanders the grandest in-
tellect that ever adorned the judicial bench ?
* * *
A very big divorce ease comes on in Mel-
bourne shortly. It id all the fault of the injured
husband, who, they say, broke the compact not to
take legal proceedings. The particulars of the
case will, of course, now be ventilated in the
Divorce Court, but we are afraid the following
authentic story in connection with this matter will
not come out there. It is a pity it should be lost,
s > here it is:—lt was on a Saturday afternoon in
May, 1880, when the husband arrived from a coun-
try trip. The servant whispered something, and
the face of her master turned livid with rage. His
spouse was about to receive him with a hearty
welcome, when “he drew himself up full length,”
and with dramatic gesture indicated to her Nolle
me tangcre. The scene which followed was exciting.
She confessed, so he says, and so also it is stated
in the document signed by her subsequently. He
left, the house mad with rage and jealousy. Dined
that evening in town, and then went to the Opera
House. To his surprise, tho Lothario was there.
Imagine the husband’s feelings. He went out and
had refreshments, and scarcely was he again seated
when he heard revolver-shots. Screams, excite-
ment, confusion. Three bleeding persons lay in
tho dress-circle—two men and a women. It was
the Groer-Soudry tragedy which had just been
enacted. The case was on all-fours with his own.
The husband was out of his senses for the moment.
Ho fumbled mechanically in his pockets, but there
was no loaded revolver there. Else there would
have been another tragedy that memorable even-
ing, and more expense to the proprietors in getting
new coverings for blood-stained seats and carpets.
History does repeat itself occasionally ; but it
would have been rather the quickest on record had
our hero had a revolver with him that Saturday
night.
On the last day of 1882, a lunatic who had
been in the Dunedin Asylum for fifty years, gave
a ball and supper to the other inmates. Dr. Rone
knew him well enough to permit all the others,
except the violent ones, to attend. It was a Bel-
shazzar’s feast for style and plenty, and the group-
ing was such as was never before seen in the world.
On the host’s right sat a man who believed he was
a King, He had a crown of pasteboard and Kohi-
noors of broken tumblers. Alongside his plate was
laid his sceptre—a piece of broom-handle. On the
left sat a conspicuous figure. He had for twenty
years believed he was dead. He never ate in the
presence of others, and slept in a coffin specially
designed by himself. He never spoke to anyone.
In his right eye was fixed a half-crown, but he kept
the other open—knowing not how to trust the
dead. Another was an Elephant, and would have
space around him. They had to take a door off its
hinges, because he believed he couldn’t pass
through, and as he used his nose for a trunk, that
organ became decidedly more high-toned than his
manners. Julius Ctesar was there, and now and
then would get up, gather his toga round him,
and fall under the conspirators’ daggers, and then
get up and fall to his dish. The Messiah cheerily
took a glass of wine with another Messiah, and the
Czar of Russia passed the salt to Noah with a
friendly enquiry' how he was getting on with the
old ark. At the ball the orchestra was immense.
Three or four wore dress-suits, but the first,
violin dressed in his own true character of
Paganini. Shakespeare handled the double-bass,
and in the intervals of the dance handed in lemon-
ade to the Queen of Damascus, or Mary Queen of
Scots. The Last of the Mohicans trod a war dance*
and bishops and monarchs became sane enough to
clutch their scalps. And when the strains rose
higher, and knights of chivalry and queens whirled
round, then the Dead Man, wrapped in a new
shroua, would fasten in his half-crown firmly, and
stalk amidst them to “ fix them with his glittering
eye,” now and then brushing his ears or his sound
eye, or poking a mournful finger into his mouth,
to clear away the dust. The Professor stood the
whole evening looking into the bowl of a new
spoon, and reflecting on the aberration of light as
his face became long or broad by holding tho bowl
in different positions. The genial host moved
everywhere. The Immortal Man expressed strong
hopes that he would have the pleasure of cele-
brating many more half conturies in that insti-
tution, while the Dwad Man was so overcome with
his feelings that ho nearly spoke. As it was, the
half-crown fell out of his eye, and in the confusion
of his grief at so nearly relapsing into life, ho re-
fixed it in the wrong eye. At. tho conclusion, all
uncovered to “God Save the Queen,” except the
Queens of Fiji, China, India, and Palostme.
« * •
David Buchanan puts
down his foot on Free
Thought. ’Tis a big foot, yot it
won’t cover the ground.
Angus Cameron thinks
(ride his speech at Randwick)
that just as much credit
attaches to the successful
cricketer or boatpullor as to
the successful student. Till
now we’d never suspected
Angus of being equal to
sarkasm.
Usher of Black Rod in
Imperial Parliament, Sir W. T.
Knollys, K.C.8., dead. Sir
William’s father was claim-
ant to the Earldom of
Sunderland, and Sir William,
as the eldest son, was
for some years called by his
courtesy title, Lord Beverley.
On the' House of Lords de-
ciding adversely to the claim,
he became plain William
Knollys.
Bromby, who burns to
averge the wrongs of Erin,
?'Ot summoned the other day
n Melbourne, for not paying
cabdriver Shannon his proper
fare, and was ordered to pay
over the two bob in dispute
besides lifteen shillings costs.
Bromby on fair play for Ire-
land, preaches with eloquence;
in his practice of fare pay to
Shannon he comes short oi his
doctrine. There are too
many Brombys around.
Th> Melbourne Museum
and National Gallery havo
boon open on Sundays for the
past few weeks. ’Tis a
dangerous place, though,
when crowded. A picnic
arising—as it might, from the
simplest cause —would pro-
pably kill 500. In a narrow
passage, which leads from the
Industrial Museum to the Art
Gallery, some 200 could perish
very comfortably. And, as
for the ventilator, well—there
is none to speak of! The
trust-os are responsible for
the sad lack of proper means
of exit. Should there be a
panic some Lord's buy, and
some 500 went under, what a
throw in ’twould be for the
Sabbatarian Boanerges! How
he would “improve the oc-
casion, ” and gloat as he
pointed a lying moral about
the consuming wrath of an
offended Deity— all forgetful
of the truer moral to be
drawn from cases such as that
of those on whom the tower
in Siloam fell.
Years ago Sydney Smith
(the Canon, not the Macquarie
popgun), doubting the practi-
cability of introducing trial by
jury into New South Wales,
thus imagined a few of the
excuses that might be made by
anyone summoned as a juror:
—“I cannot come because tho
waters of the Hawkosbury
are out, and I have a mile to
swim; the convicts have
robbed me; my little boy has
been bitten by an ornithoryn-
chus paradoxus; I have sent
a man 60 miles with a bag of
Hour to buy a pair of breeches
for the assizes, and he is not
returned.” The jocose Canon
never thought of an alligator
being put forward as an ex-
cuse, and yet read this extract
from a North Queensland ex-
change:—“A juror, who would
be one of the very last in the
Cook district to shirk his duty,
objects to being summoned to
attend court at the risk of his
life. He lives at the southern
side of the Annan river, and
every one well knows that
there are times when an alli-
gator renders it almost suicidal
to cross over to the north. Mr.
Justice Cooper accepted an
excuse based on the above
grounds, and remitted the
tine he had inllictcd without a
correct knowledge of the cir-
cumstances.”
We have heard about the Emperor o
Austria’s travelling altar, and how it is earned
about with him wherever he goes which is very
proper, and shows that the Emperor knows wnat is
due to himself and to Heaven. What, for instanco
would be thought of him in Heaven if he weie to
say his prayers on the bare ground, like a common
sinner f But we know a man who combines plea-
sure and prayer far better than this. He just says
his prayers in a vapour bath; loses no time, and
gains eternity at the one stroke. . ,,
We have received a poem entitled “ Eclipse."’
It certainly reads as it it had been written in the
dark. But the versification is mgenious-or should
we say in-gin-ious ?-and, therefore, we print it
just to gall the Echo bards. Le vtnld
Mr. Sladen has been writing a poein about
the battle of Waterloo. After reading it all our
pride in that great victory was gone. A hundred
Waterloos would not besullieient, recompense tyf
one Sladen.
A PICNIC EPISODE.
ctnod and watched the giddy throng-
H * rn<m now aged and worn-
ThoirGaugh and jest, their shout and song,
T Along the breeze were borne.
ah! each happy smile and look
® Pierced through the old man s brain;
Hp cursed-his form with passion shook,
H He raved, and cursed again.
RusDicion’s blight had searod his soul:
The apple of his eye.
His wife, had simplv ta’en a stroll
To help the moments fly.
And somehow-in the brush and wood—
uia darling, young and fair,
,ves this the source of all his gloom,)
( Had tumbled her bach hair. #
A NEW BAROMETER.
“Tho rain's coming on,” the old man said
To us, at the close of eve,
When the milkman came round, and we marvelled
What led him thus to believe.
“ How do you know ?” we said in awe;
“Tell us, O wise old man."
He smiled at the milkman, and we saw
That the lid was off his can! ”
The moon last night was white, and stricken
With some strange awe of a sight unseen
Of men; who saw but the sweet lace sicken
And darkness thicken where light had been
Death did she see in shadows hiding—
A hunter setting his snares tor lime,
And, grimly silent, the prey abiding
His hell-hounds chiding, that long to chnnc
In chorus ghastly, where faint feet Hoeing
Have left a trail for the Fates thm .1
Or late find all in the ring of being i—
God keep us from seeing as sees the moon I


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Mr. Angus Mackay, of the Sydney D.T., is
leaving this city for Victoria, of whose Parliament
he has been elected a member. Angus goes for
good. You can read this two ways.
In the capacity of “ our own special,”
Joaquin Miller, the poet of the Sierras, is one of
the brightest scribblers extant. Hois New York
correspondent for a vast number of newspapers,
and does not send the same screed to each, but is
interesting and original in all.
Five members of the British Cabinet are
credited with being total abstainers. They are
Earl Granville, Lord Spencer, Sir Charles Dilke,
Sir William Harcourt, and Mr. Childers. No won-
der the policy of the Imperial Government is
accused of not heins? spirited. What is a Govern-
ment without dyspepsia ?
It’s wonderful how widely intelligence
about really fashionable people is disseminated.
In a single issue of Galignani wo find announce-
ments as follow:—“The Countess Dowager of
Lonsdale and Ladies Sybil and Verena Lowther
have arrived at 27 Lowndes-square, for the season;”
and “At Liverpool. N.S.W., Varney, son of tho
Hon. Sir Henry Parkes, K.C.M.G, to Mary C.,
daughter of Mr. George Murray, J.P.”
David Henry, of Melbourne, is now con-
sidered a saint compared to Marks Hermann and
Aaron Waxman. David is now doing a legitimate
business of sixty per cent, or so, and scorns men
who charge 1400 per cent. Speaking of Henry, it is
somewhat curious that on the very same week that
he left the gaol, his accomplished son, Dr. Louis
Henry, bought a practice at Brunswick, including
the business at Pentridge Prison, which he divides
with Dr. Stewart, his brother-in-iaw.
Archibald Forbes, eommeneing next Mon-
day in the Masonic Hall, will wind up his colonial
tour with his three best lectures, viz., (1) Expe-
riences of a War Correspondent; (2) Warriors I
have known; (3) Kings and Princes I have met.
Then he is going to Washington to get married,
when he may have an opportunity of listening tou
few lectures; and if he should ever return, the
war correspondent will perhaps be able to give an
interesting account of his matrimonial experi-
ences.
Cardinal Czacki, who lately got the hat, is
only 49 years of age. The present Pope likes to
have young fellows about him. This hat-giving
suggests a philo’ogical speculation to us. When
Pope Alexander VI. wanted to raise money, he—so
historians say—used to make a cardinal. The car-
dinal always paid for the honour. Shortly after
that, he would die suddenly. Then His Holiness
would make another cardinal to fill the vacancy.
The theory we have to offer is that this custom
was the origin of the phrase, “passing round the
hat.”
It is said that when the charming Emelic
sued the triumvirate for eighteen hundred, the
verdict for the nine hundred was a heavy and un-
expected jar for the defendants. Garner was very
despondent, but Jimmy Williamson, who always
takes a bright view, comforted him by whisperintr;
“ Never mind, old man; we've got well out of it.
When she cast that longing, lingering look at the
jury-box, after the Judge summed up in our
favour—that sweetly injured look, Arthur—l
thought we were in for at least a couple of
thousand.”
The principal mover in the expulsion of
Marks Hermann from bis office as President of the
East Melbourne Hebrew Congregation, was Mr.
Joseph Cohen, also a money-lender. The history
of Melbourne “financiers ” is really worth writing.
The fraternity have made a dean set against the
Hkkald for exposing their transactions, and Mr.
Marks Hermann has been just up to move for a
rule to attach the publisher of that newspaper, old
Ignatius Feigl, wno, it may be remembered, had
one of his hands taken off by machinery some years
ago. Well, the joke of the whole affair is that
Ignatius, whom they are trying to send to gaol, is
himself a money-lender in Richmond, where his
wife runs a pawnbroking establishment.
So the half-oaste Maori heiress has been
caught at last. A couple of weeks ago the banns
of marriage wore pronounced between Mr. Moor-
house, son of the late Superintendent of Canter-
bury, and Miss Rhodes, daughter of the late
Captain Rhodes. Miss Rhodes, who visited Sydney
some time ago, is worth at least, half a million—in
fact, a judgment of over £400,000 was. some time
ago, given in her favour by the N.Z. Supreme
Court and upheld on appeal by the Judicial Corn-
mi'tee of the Privy Council. The marriage will
shortly eventuate, at Wellington, N.Z., and the
surroundings will, in the words of the theatre bills,
on a scale of magnificence never before attempted
in Maoriland.
Mr. Brough Smyth, who was for many
years permanent head of the Victorian Mining
Department, and who had to resign after an en-
quiry into charges of cruelty brought against him
by his subordinates, has now settled down in his
new position as director of the Sandhurst School
of Mines. After his resignation in Victoria, he
went to India, and received an appointment as
Inspector of Gold Mines. His glowing descriptions
of the auriferous prospects of the Indian mines
induced English capitalists to float companies, and
they lost their money. When he returned to Vic-
toria, he wrote reports for the Argits on some of
the Victorian mines; then he received his present
appointment at the hands of the O’Loghlen Gov-
ernment. Complaints against him are again rife
among his underlings at the School of Mines.
A certain bishop was travelling from Mel-
bourne to Sydney, the other day, and in he rail-
way carriage struck up a conversation with a
fellow-passenger—asked him, among a variety of
other things, whether he was a good churchman.
“ Not particularly—but always sent his wife and
youngsters, &c. &c., supported the church, paid up
the necessary dues, and so on.” Notic ng that his
friend bad met with an accident, the good prelate
ventured to remark that such things were some-
times blessings in disguise. “ Very probably.”
replied the bishop’s fellow-traveller, who was a
bushman and had broken his log. “ Hadn’t been
to church for seven years until I went to hoar the
Bishop of Northern Queensland eight weeks ago
Next day I broke my leg.”
Old Tom Boyd, the only survivor of the
first exploring party which crossed the Murray, has
had a great deal of trouble with his family. But
this is not bis only misfortune. He does not now
own a single hoof, and a few months ago he built a
hut on a reserve from which he has now been
ordered to remove. The principal cause of his
downfall was an impounding match between him
aricT&n adjoining squatter which nearly “ broke ”
both of them. The squatter was allowed compen-
sation for land taken from him by selectors, but
Boyd, not knowing that he possessed all the inti-
mate and enthusiastic friends who showed up at
the Albury banquet, didn’t apply for—or, at any
rate, wasn’t awarded—any solatium, though the
whole of his run had been selected.
Herbert Spencer has, on account of ill
health, abandoned his projected visit to Australia.
It was his wish to spend some time in the colonies,
with a view to collecting materials for the com-
pletion of his great system of philosophy. He has
for some years employed a numher of specialists
on Indian and American subjects. They supply
him with accurate accounts of the old civilisations,
and he marshals the information into his system.
It w ll be some years before his system will be
complete. So far, he has covered nearly the whole
field of modern scientific research, and has reached
to the middle of his great work on Sociology.
Three or four volumes on the Principles of
Morality will form the completion of a work that
has already given him a name that can range up
alongside Plato or Aristotle.
Peter M‘Mahon, whom the Ballarat Justices
fined recently for imbibing too much poteen, turns
out to be the oldest British soldier on record; in
fact, he was born a soldier. His father was a ser-
geant in the 88th Connaught Rangers, and whilst
stationed in the Royal Barracks, Dublin, his wife
gave birth to Peter. As soon as he was able to
carry and beat a drum, he was taken as a drummer-
boy in the same regiment. A Post reporter
wanted to know whether Peter had been in a
battle. “Have I been in a battle? Is it whether
I have been in a battle ? What a question I Why,.
I was at Salamanca, Nive, Toulouse, Talavera,
Santerarn, and Waterloo.” Peter then gave a long
description of the last-named battle, and produced
a bullet which hit him in the thigh, and after it.
was extracted has been carrying it about him ever
since. That was the last battle he was in till he*
met a polioeman on Soldiers' Hill, Ballarat, the
other day.
The Sultan of Turkey has commenced the-
foundation of a national public library. He has.
ordered all the literary treasures now buried in.
mosques and religious houses to bo sent to Con-
stantinople as the nucleus of the new library-
Among these may be discovered some that may
give tho impetus to another classic revival. But.
whether or no. this is very queer conduct for the:
head of that faith of which Omar was an arch-
apostle— O ar, who burnt the grand Alexandrian
library to the ground, saying that if the books that,
were in it disagreed with the Koran, they were
pestilent, and should be burnt; and if they agreed
with it they should be burnt, as being useless. This,
world, we are afraid, is becoming too well educated.
If things go on as they are doing, it will soon be
necessary for the praying-mantises to turn hod-
carriers.
Charles Bradlaujrh’s present position is not
so utterly unbearable, or rather, it would not be to
an ordinary unambitious man. For the House of
Commons is the “ best club ” in the world, and he-
enjoys all its privileges; he can eat there, drink
there, smoke there, read there, write there, receive,
his friends there, and, whenever he feels inclined,
drop in without the trouble of securing a seat or
attending prayers, and listen to his favourite ora-
tors from one of the most comfortable places in the
House. He is independent of all the whips; he is.
pursued by no deputations ; he is worried by
no necessity to vote: in short, he tastes all the
sweets and none of the bitters of Parliamentary
life. Many a rich man would give a slice off his
income for an entree to this “ best club ” of th&
greatest city of the world, an entree which no
wealth can buy, and not fret very much because
he couldn’t take part in the debates. But “ ambi-
tion should be made of sterner stuff,” and Charles
is not happy.
The evening shades were falling
O’er the place I love so well.
And I lingered at the window
Of the house wherein I dwell.
And watched the erowds of peoplt
As they hurried on their wav, ✓ ,
And they seemed quite gay and happy,
After tailing all the day. riv
And soon the. sound of voices '
And hurrying feet grew light,
And the street grew diin and silent
. At the near approach of night
Then, looking "through the darkness]
Thai fell on land and sea,
1 gTew conscious of a person
Standing watching me.
And he stood and seemed to beckon)
So 1 went across the way.
Wondering what could be the matter,]
And what he had to say.
But when I came up close to him*
I made a sudden stop, ,
For he was a painted Indian]
At a large tobacco shop.
ALPHA
Poor old Tawhiao, the Maori king, has had
to start on a pilgrimage around his dominions. He
has oaten out his own proper territory, and has
now to go about, like Lear, billeting himself on
his lieges. Like Lear, too, he lias a train of fol-
lowers who put up wherever he puts up. They
now number two hundred very hungry and mira-
culously thirsty Waikatos. Ho looks poor. In-
stead of being every inch a king, he is about three
feet a broken-down sportsman, two feet (his own)
a pile-driver, and the rest of him a bibulous bar-
man. His royal robes, when he is on the march,
consist of a red hunting coat, a mat, and a white
loin-cloth. His legs and feet are bare, and he is
bareheaded. But tie is a right royal rum-drinker—
a virtue which endears him to the hearts of his
subjects. And when it comes to the point, we
don’t know whether most other monarchs who are
beloved by their people could give a sounder
reason for it than poor old Tawhiao.
Sir Arthur Palmer, the preseut acting
Governor of Queensland, has a pleasant autocratic
way of his own which has made him the object of
lively admiration in Queensland. As an instance
of this we may begin by saying that, near Brisbane,
there is a particularly dangerous level crossing.
It has semaphores at each side, and elaborate
instructions are issued to the gatekeeper with
regard to the prevention of traffic frr m passing
about train time. Very well. Sir Arthur Palmer
wanted to pass one day just as the train was ex-
pected. The gatekeeper, not knowing that the
august eye of His Excellency could awe the engine
with a glance, refused to let him cross the line in
his carriage. For this shocking irreverence, the
gatekeeper was very properly suspended. And
now the man who was sent to relieve him has been
suspended for the same cause. The third man
knows his duty better. What are trains when an
Acting-Governor wants to pass ? We hope Sir
Arthur won’t getkilled, however—which he might
one of these days if a democratic engine happened
to be coining along when be was crossing. And
then what would become of the country ? We
shudder to think of it.
This is the true biography of Mark Twain,
the archaiologist, poet, and astronomer. He is
descended direct from the Twain who were made
one flesh; and he was first born April 1,1728, on a re-
markably cold morning. At an early age he became
addicted to science, and, before he was seven, he
made the valuable discovery that a spring clothes-
pin, carefully applied to the continuation of a cat,
would create in that active animal a strong desire
for immediate foreign travel. At 19, he went
through college. He entered the front door when no
one was looking, kerosened the rector’s favourite
cat, and graduated soon afterwards over the back
fence. After travelling to the four corners of the
earth, including the middle, he began to render
himself famous by that remarkable series of truth-
ful anecdotes which have stamped him as the true
and heaven-sent successor to George Washington.
As an archaeologist, however, he has gained the
most success, and his collection of Pompeiian.
Egyptian, and early Greek jokes is considered the
most complete in the world. He has been accused
of making some himself, but this is a straight
slander. He has written a brilliant essay on the
political advantages of a “full deck” in playing
“ante-up;” while his exquisite poem entitled
“The Frog bowed down by weight of Shot,” is
considered one of the most pathetic in any lan-
guage, and equal to a good many poems that have
never been printed.
Leopold Jordan fancies he will owe one to
G. R. Sims by the time he reaches London again.
Three years ago Jordan wrote and composed a
comic opera, and called it “The Derby Day.” He
rather prided himsolf on being the first man to put
racing matters in a comic opera. There was a
bookmakers’ chorus in “The Derby Day,” also a
chorus by jockeys. Messrs. Holt and Wilmot
bought the opera, and sold Australian rights to
Dunning, who may or may not think he secured a
bargain. It was known among professional people
that Jordan had written and sold “ The Derby Day.”
G. R. Sims, among other people, should have known
it very well, because Jordon read the book to him.
Very lately a new comic opera has been produced
in London successfully. It is called “The Merry
Duchess.” G. R. Sims is author of the libretto:
Frederick Clay of the music. Now, curiously
enough, it contains the salient ideas of Jordan's
opera, as, for example, the bookmakers’ and
jockeys’ choruses, and the general horsey business
originally invented by Jordan. This is what
Jordan avers, and he calls Bogus-Pathos-G.-R.-
Dagonet Sims, Esq., far stronger names than we
care about putting down on our scented pink
hand-made paper. Dunning may chip in here-
about, if he chooses, and tells us if ever he did
hear of Jordan’s “ Derby Day.” On <Ht, that
Jordan has agreed with Moulton and Millis to
travel as their manager and agent.
C. E. Jones, of “ Paschal Lamb and Mint
Sauce” fame, is again before the public as the
champion of the Orangemen of Victoria. Jones is
a tailor by trade and a politician by profession.
Like many other tailors, he rose to be a member of
the Victorian Legislative Assembly, and a Minister
of the Crown. Unfortunately for him, certain
little bribery transactions, in which he was con-
cerned, were disclosed in 1869, and Jones was
drummed out of the Victorian Forum. He then
disappeared from Victoria and went to the U.S.,
where ho edited a newspaper. It was a failure.
He then tried American politics. He was a failure.
Then he attempted to make a living by lecturing.
This was also a failure. At last he came back to
Victoria, in 1881. He expected that, like the Pro-
digal Son, the fattest calf would be kilied for him
on his return, and that he would be taken back
into the House. In this he nearly succeeded, but
the “early voters” at Ballarat were too many for
him, and Fincham succeeded in tieing him, and
the returning-officer adminitered to Jones the coup
de grace by giving the casting vote to Fincham.
Jones talked of an appeal to the Elections and
Qualifications Committee, but here again he found
himself baulked—he had been naturalised as an
American subject, and had failed to return to his
allegiance to the Queen. Having failed to secure
the £3OO a year for talking in the Club at the top
of Bourke-street, Jones has been trying to make a
living by blathering to audiences in the provinces
about the Mormons. This is also played out, and
now the loquacious ex-tallor has presented his
talking talent to the Orangemen, and will deliver
his first lecture on the “ Spanish Armada ” on the
12th July, to commemorate the Battle of the Boyne.
A strong posse of police have been ordered down
to the hall to watch events.
The rejection of the Affirmation Bill re-
minds us that there has been for many years a
French Bradlaugh. If the House of Commons
oath were the sesame to the French Senate, France
would have been deprived of all the good done by
Victor Schcelclier, He’s 80 years old now, and
since he was 19 he has hated and fought and v an-
quished the “Scribes and Pharisees” of France.
For (50 years he has been a man of unselfish aim
and untiring effort, a redressor of grievances, a
helper of the desolate, and the emancipator of
French Negro slaves. He has pursued evildoers in
high places with implacable persistency; he claims
“ equal rights ” for women, and has displayed great
personal courage on many occasions. His great
battle was for the slaves, and, in seeking their
emancipation, he brought down a shower of
national indignation; was treated as an enemy of
his country—as aiming at the destruction of the
French colonies by ruining the planters. But, in
spite of all opposition, he went on, and a clean
sweep was made of slavery, once and for over.
He opposed capital punishment, and got an end
put to flogging in the army. Schcelcher would
never take an oath, saying “if a man does not
scruple to tell a lie, no oath will bind him.” And
he is right. For no one can enter a court of law
or a houso of Parliament without discerning what
a farce an oath is, so far as conscience is concerned.
Schcelcher is the French Bradlaugh—the “scheel-
cher” of shams. And, when the trumpet-voiced
dauntless Bradlaugh—the man whom the miser-
able twaddling bigot who .• cts as London corres-
pondent for the S.M. Herald last week designated
“ that creature Bradlaugh’’—goes into the House
of Commons, he, too, will be a “ schcelcher ” of
shams, beneath whoso Titan force hypocrisy will
crack like a nut under a Nasmyth hammer. So
keep him out, oh! “ scribes and pharisees.”
Some years ago “Jack” Gardyne—there
was a deal of moaning in the fact that nobody ever
called him “John" Gardyne—was perhaps the
finest man in Sydney. He was as handsome as a
Norse god, 26 years old, six feet two, broad-
shouldered, with a figure and face such as are not
even given to one man in ten thousand. He had
good abilities, was universally popular, was as
generous as he was handsome, and was married, to
an estimable young lady, the daughter of a wealthy
and respected citizen. At the time of his marriage
he was a partner in the well-known hardware firm
of Holdsworth and Gardyne, his connection with
which was sovered perhaps a year ago, when he
started business in a much smaller way on his own
account. Affairs may have gone fairly well; but
still Jack Gardyne in his new sphere found the
road of commerce a hard one, and one not alto-
gether suited to the temperament of a man
who could never refuse a favour to either friend
or stranger. To the cares of business were added
anxiety as to the health of his wife, who had long
been seriously ill. Last Thursday Jack Gardyne,
who had not preserved the hardness of condition
which characterised him in his athletic days, was
about town apparently in his usual high spirits.
He did his business, met his friends, and had lunch
at Compagnoni’s; but, in the afternoon, it is said,
some friends of his, at the Sydney Club, saw him
gazing fixedly and long at a picture in an illus-
trated paper of a man holding out a revolver. A
little after four o’clock, his brother, hear-
ing the report of a pistol-shot in “ Jack's ”
office, rushed in and found the latter sitting in a
chair with his head on the table— blood flowing from
his right temple and from a hole behind the left
ear, the point of the fatal bullet’s exit. “Jack”
whs dead. He had deliberately bought at Lasset-
ter’s that very afternoon a bulldog revolver and
fifty cartridges.
Capt. W. E. Armit, R.N., who has gone to
New Guinea in the interests of the Argus, was
formerly an officer of the Queensland native
police. Having kicked over the traces consider-
ably, he and the service bade each other adieu.
Then he wrote for the Australasian a series of
exceedingly readable articles by “A Queensland
Native Police Officer,” including some first-class
alligator and nigger lies. Capt Armit is a good
busnman, a man of science, and the wielder of a
facile pen. “He goes,” announces the Argus,
“ with instructions and supplies to buy, not to
fight his way ” Young George Morrison, who is
to “explore” New Guinea for the Age, also takes
a commission from the Presbyterian Church of
Victoria, which fact will, we are afraid, consider-
ably discount any chance his articles might other-
wise have had of creating a sensation. We’ve had
quite enough missionary yarns. Wc are sick of
the galimatias of the clerical scribes and of the
jeremiads of the keepers of Christian homes for
niggers in the wilderness. Young Morrison
is a plucky fellow who, had he been sent to New
Guinea by “the boys,” instead of being curled up
under the wings of the kirk, would, in all pro-
bability, have reflected a lot of glory on himself
and David Syme. We hope George won’t be eaten.
We also hope that, should ho succeed in gaining
the ear of the principal blackfeilow in New G uinea,
he won’t put that worthy up to eat his rival Armit.
George is a pious boy; and as he is a member of
the Y.M.C.A , he will probably neither elope with
the chief’s wife, nor steal his daughter. But if we
were in his place, we’d certainly do our level best
to get the king to chew up the Argus fellow. Cer-
tain ignorant persons have asked now it is that the
S.M. Herald authorities don’t send out a New
Guinea expedition, too. These people must be
unaware of the fact that a majority of the mem-
bers of the Herald staff are now engaged in the
good work of converting the Papuan darkies, and
that a consignment of sanctified blacks will shortly
arrive here to report muffin-worries for the Old
Girl. Nor is Alfred idle. The Town and Kuntry
Jernel canvasser is already on the war-path—six
shillings a quarter.
As New Guinea yarns are in season, we
give an odd one from a continental paper. The
introduction of the elephant lends a special charm
to it:—“ Particulars have been received of the
circumstances under which Mr. Frank Hatton
(only son of Mr. Joseph Hatton) met his death
while on an expedition of exploration in New
Guinea. Mr. Hatton was conducting an expedi-
tion in an hitherto unexplored district, with a view
to determine the geological character of the
Seguama Kiver and certain; regions of the
Kinabatangan. While proceeding down the
river, Mr. Hatton fired from his boat at an
elephant on the banks and wounded it se-
verely. Leaping ashore with his mandore,
a Malay, he gave chase. The elephant pausing, as
they thought at bay, they returned for reinforce-,
ments. Arming a lew of his men with Sniders,
Mr. Hatton led the way into the jungle. The ele-
phant, had moved off, and, night coming on, Mr.
Hatton was persuaded to return. While making
his way through the jungle, he raised his rifle to
move an overhanging creeper, stooping at the
same time to pass underneath it. The weapon
became entangled, the muzzle was twisted towards
him, and, the trigger having been pulled by some
twigs or the vine, he was shot. His men wore all
round him in a moment. They caught him as he
fell, and he murmured ‘ Ovodeen,’ his Tutong
boy’s name, as he laid his head upon his shoulder,
lost consciousness, and died. Mr. Beveridge, an
Australian mining expert, arrived on the scene
at the moment, and found the voung scientist’s
dusky followers weeping, Ovodeen having
the deceased’s head upon his kn e. The body
was carried to the boats, and, under the direction
of Mr. Beveridge, eleven of the deceased's fol-
lowers paddled the body in a native ‘gobang,’ or
boat, by river and sea to Sandakan, a distance of
nearly 170 miles, without sleep night or day, over
the unknown river and finally into the sea, coasting
along the north-east shores into the bay of San-
dakan, where they arrived after having pulled for
flfty-three consecutive hours, only resting three
times for half-an-hour to eat a little rice. The
funeral was attended by all the Europeans and by
most of the native and Chinese residents of Elopura.
The body will be exhumed for final interment in
one of the London cemeteries, and is expected to
arrive in England at the end of July or beginning
of August.”
This is a yarn—a rope yarn. Marwood, the
merry gentleman who gives such people as the law
thinks would make nice corpses a graceful send-off
to the cemetery, avas performing this pleasant
office in Cork for an individual by the name of
Keefe, who murdered his uncle not long ago. After
it was over, the jury who inquested what remained
of Mr. Keefe after Mr. Marwood had done with
him requested to see the rope which Mr. Marwood
is in the habit of using on such occasions. This
vulgar curiosity Mr. Marwood very properly re-
fused to gratify, and, in doing so, informed them
that the rope was his private property. For a
thorough appreciation of the necessity of uphold-
ing his official dignity, there is no man that can
compare with the hangman—not even the beadle.
We should like very much to have the pleasure of


Morwoo<l’B acquaintance. Being no bankerers
notoriety. however, we would prefer to know
in his private capacity. What tales he must
f to tell of the manner in which the great men
h h'om he has handled from time to time went off
wr lhnt their last words were, and how much small
they had in their pockets before starting!
ft thun again, what fun he must have had in
ourtnir with them when they were on the scaffold,
indthen suddenly letting the drop fall, and leaving
ihnni to have their laugh at his waggery in eternity!
There is something like seasoning in the conversa-
H In of a mail like this. And we believe Mr. Mar-
rood is ouite as affable and unostentatious as any
oher orivate gentleman when he is not on public
a\tv r Which reminds us that Mr. Upjohn, the
vn.forian hangman, was also noted for his cheerful
wtaaeitv in society before a contemplation of the
V inked ness ol the world made him misanthropic.
these times lie used to drop in—joking again,
' h Q t gay dogs we are!—regularly every day to
in!ve a drink in a popular hotel. One day, how-
ver noticing some members of Parliament in the
hnr he drew the landlord aside and informed him
ihrtt he (Mr. Upjohn), though not a man to stand
nn ceremony, yet. felt bound to draw the line—by
“ htoh he probably meant the rovie-somewhere,
7rld real 1 v had to draw it at members of Parlia-
* Which shows that Mr. Upjohn, like his
more’celebrated brother in England, never forgot
“hat was due to his dignity. After his, he always
drank alone. But hang this subject!—we are getting
tired of it. Bet us write something about coffins.
We must be gay sometimes.
Osmond Tearle, tin Rignold of America,
and a strikingly handsome actor, earning about
r-JOOO a year, has just been divorced fro n his wife,
nther suit, on account of a little laxity in Osmond’s
conduct as regards the seventh commandment. A
chief witness against him was one of hi* own
letters which the wife put into court. Abridging
ft somewhat, the substantial parts are certainly
liniaue ‘ My dear Wife, Let me say at once
what must be said. You must have seen the
breach that was gradually widening between us.
You know perfectly well my feelings towards you
were anything but what they should be. I cannot
helo it: my life to you has been one of deceit. I
havu; been unfaithful to you from shortly after our
marriage, which was a fearful mistake. My life has
been wretched in this country. What I told you
in Barrow was false, utterly false. But as the
time approached for in<- arrival in Liverpool, a
feeling of fearful repugnance came to me,
and I had to lie to avoid doing what I could
“ ot _niy whole nature abhorred at the mere
thought. Knowing this, it is much better we
should part. Add to this the knowledge that
I love-have loved for two years—another, dearly.
Mv love is such that I am prepared for anything,
go what worth am I to you with another woman’s
love in my heart? Our lives would be simply
ablect wretchedness, with an end—God only knows
what I shall send you £3OO a year, in £25 every
month. You threatened to come over here, did I
not return. It would be exceedingly foolish. This
is a very inhospitable country to women in any
case, and I should necessarily have to be very cruel
to you; besides, I am taking out my papers as an
American citizen, and should then obtain a divorce
—a thing easily procured here with money and
influence—so be sensible. Nothing in the world
can alter this decision. It is irrevocable. I can
never endure the misery I have done. God knows
T suffer as I write this. I have forced myself to it
in the early morning, not being able to sleep. God
help and pity you. But you will be far better with-
out me, I am not, nor never have been, worthy of
you: try to forget such a wretch ever lived. God
bless and shield you from harm, and should our
marriage ties be severed, send to you some true one
who will make you as happy inthe future as I have
made you miserable in the past. Kiss the children
for me. They are, thank God, in good hands.
Your husband. George.” The Judge decreed that
Mrs. Tearle should receive £4OO a year alimony.
We notice, when women desert their children, or
men their wives, they always entrust those dis-
carded encumbrances to the hands of Divine Pro-
vidence, It’s a cheap and convenient method.
* * *
James Bray appointed Police Magistrate at
Casino Old Bourke, the first man who crossed
the Murray River with a mail, sometime in the
twilight of civilization, is alive, and employed at
the Melbourne Post Office,,,, Mr, and Mrs. Joseph
Clarke, of Toorak (brother of Sir William), arrived
iu London in May, and promptly entered on its
gaieties •.. William Petty (otherwise “Silly BilJy ”),
the young Victorian capitalist who was so un-
mercifully fleeced by Hermann and Waxman, the
1400-per-siienters, is now in N.Z., which he will not
leave for a certain time... Mr. Henry Bolton,
M.L.A. for Moira (Vic,), Sir Bryan O’Loghlen’s
Postmaster-General, is about to give up the pro-
fession of po ities for squatting pursuits in Queens-
land.... The Echo calls Lord Augustus Loftus a
“ peer.” His Excellency is only a Lord by courtesy,
and courtesy titles don’t raise their holders above
the rank of commoners—Carl Feilberg has re-
signed the sub-editorship of the Argus (Melb.), and
returns to the Brisbane Courier—lt is not
generally known that Lobb, the most fashionable
London bootmaker—who is to boots wbat Poole is
to clothes—was formerly in business in Sydney;
nor is it generally known that one Sydney ctyrdnn-
nier exports a large quantity of expensive boots
annually to London Be the Costley bequest:—
The money was the money of Costley, but the will
was the will of Samuel Jackson, and but for his
promptitude and care fer the public institutions of
Auckland, that city, like Lord Ullin, might have
been left lamenting, and Costley gone to his grave
unhonoured and unsung—sir W. J. Clarke pre-
sented a rug of platypus skins, worth a hundred
guineas, to the Prince of Wales Mr. Moncure
Conway, the great Liberal, is about to visit Austra-
lia. Now for another howl from tho Parkes-Pastor-
Allenset Mr. Froude, the historian, will pro-
bably visit Australia to lecture on Carlyle.... Con-
stable Rergin, of Melbourne, is dead. He is the
policeman who, when Charles Bright, as chairman
of a Freethought meeting, gave out a hymn which
he sai was “by Pope,” muttered, “Not by Pope
Pius, I’ll be bound Mr. Julian Thomas (“The
Vagabond") has been lecturing in New Zealand on
“People I Have Met.” The people he refers to
must be either dead or too far away to get at him.
There is a clergyman in New Zealand who is 83
years of age; his wife is 84 Lord Augustus
Loftus returned to Sydney on Saturday. Affecting
meeting with his poultry Surveyor Munro re-
cently went to the Russell River from Brisbane, to
survey selections. He is now non eat inventus.
Query: Another fiermagui mystery ? Old John
Garrett, late P.M. of Scone, testimonialled by his
brother magistrates The Albury Municipal
Council should either pull down or repair and ade-
quately protect the flume monument. The in-
scription plate has been made a target of for rifle
and revolver practice. The iron railings are either
broken or consuinedly groggy. Another year or
so, and the record of the Hume overlanding party,
so far as this monument is concerned, will be afay
in de ewigkeit—buried in ruin. Albury, for shame!
Smythe and Purves, Victorian barristers re-
tained for the Crown in each of the Haw-
thorn railway cases, netted in about four
months some £2OOO apiece. The law is a
noble purvession when one’s in the swim
Mr. Whiddon. the Sydney solicitor who, through
the favourable termination of an old Chancery
suit, lately came into a fortune of £60,000, has been
dangerously ill from the effects of over-excite-
meut ever since the receipt of the news—The will
of the late Mr. James Merriuian, late M.P. and ex-
May or of Sydney, was proved on Wednesday for
£51,200... .R. S. Smythe has declined to run
Oscar Wilde through the colonies.
• * •
A French paper announces that Miss Booth,
of the Salvation Army, is about to marry a French
journalist The daughter of Victoria Woodhull,
the celebrated Free-Love lecturer, has just made
her d6but on the London stage. She is prett,, and
does not hold the progressive views of her mother.
Archbishop Vaughan, has, in all probability, ere
this, slept and dined under the old rooftree of his
highbred ancestors. The present holder of the
family seat of “Courtfleld,” in Herefordshire, is
Roger’s younger brother, Francis Vaughan—all the
four first sons of the late Colonel Vaughan having
forfeited their heritage in the Hereford estate on
becoming priests. The Arehbishop is the ColonePs
second son; the youDgest, Reginald „Vaughan, is
married to an Australian heiress (a daughter of the
late Martin Shanahan), and lives in Sydney... From
Melbourne Punch:—Louise Michel,the he-woman
Communist, who has just been sentenced to six
years’ imprisonment, “ is the illegitimate daughter
of a French noble and a scullery wench. It is said
that angel and devil are about equally blended in
her character.” No doubt, angelic qualities from
the scullery wench and the devil from the peer—
Mrs. Astor, wife of the American Minister at
Home, is a woman of surpassing beauty—Jay
Gould’s expenses on his yacthing tour will be £100
a day. Yet he will save £200 a day by not living in
his house Again there is a rumour that Sarah is,
or rather, some people in fact anticipate, that is to
say, Sarah might be temporarily absent from the
stage in August, in consequence of a pleasing
possibility Patchett Martin, who started the
Melbourne Review, is residing in London, devoted
to dramatic matters—At Washington, the Lily
performed as Hester Grazebrook. As she came on,
there was a great buzz of expectation, a quiet
steady star** as the beauty acted, and when she dis-
appeared, “a titter of amused derision was heard
all over the house." Perhaps the most accom-
plished young Chinaman is Mr. Chin Chi Yung,
Ambassador at Washington, or the “ Flower of
China,” as he is called. He is quite a master of
European styles ef flirtation. One day at a ball, a
young lady remarked he did not dance, sayinar she
supposed the thickness of his soles prevented him.
“ It is not the soles of my feet,” replied the gallant
Chin, “ it is because the soul of my body is chained
to your side.” Quite a willow, willow-waly
pattern piece of young crockery he is... At Devon
(Eng.) has just died a remarkable woman, Mrs.
Robertson. Thirteen years ago, she was seized with
idiopathic gangrene after her accouchement. Six
weeks subeeq uent y both her legs had to be ampu-
tated to save her life, and 22 days later both hands
were cut off in the hospital. She recovered and
left the hospital, a mere torso, after being there
only 18 weeks And then lived on for 13 years! —
A man who drank a pot of beer in a Liverpool
(Eng.) public-house was taken to the hospital soon
afterwards, racked with pain, and before dying he
admitted having put strychnine in the drink. He
was Hugh Williamson Gladstone, cousin to the
Prime Minister of England.. .The London World,
who ought to know, takes to task a leading Ameri-
can paper for saying of the Lily: “ Her beauty is a
quarter her own, and three-quarters Worth.”
This is absurd. No lady ever owed so little to
dress as Mrs. Langtry. Her first and greatest suc-
cess in England was made, not only in spite of, but
very considerably on account of, the great sim-
plicity and modesty of her apparei, and she never
used magnificence of dress to attract admiration.
Nor, indeed (until the exigencies of the footlights
rendered, it necessary), did she “make up” like
most women. Her magnificent physical health
rendered cosmetics superfluous; and it was the
very fact of the elastic jerseys—named after her-
self—showing every sinuous, graceful movement
of her supple form, without any meretricious
padding, that made her so irresistibly charming...
Nilsson’s hair is of a peculiar, indescribable colour,
almost an old gold, and her complexion is as fair
and soft as the bloom of the peach. She is thirty-
nine years old, and yet she has all the spirit, fresh-
ness and piquancy of a young girl. She is queenly
in appearance, majestic in carriage, and is a splen-
did specimen of the perfectly healthy woman,
both in mind and body. She says she is at peace
with the world, and has high hopes of reaching
heaven, and is curious to know whether the angels
will like her singing—Mr. Chenery, editor of the
Times, always carries a revolver in his pocket —
The “curate” trick was tried on Mary Anderson,
the beautiful American actress. She was shown a
photograph representing herself and a man kissing,
and an attempt made to levy blackmail, under
threat of publicity. She, however, took the initia-
tive in exposing tne affair herself, and immediately
prosecuted the blackmailers. No sensible man
believes the curate yarn to be true—Oscar Wilde
has had his hair cut! This is a frozen fact. The
story runs—as told by the Pagan Poet —that Zola
objected to the Absalom-like length of Oscar’s
locks, and declared that if Oscar yearned for his
companionship, Oscar “must to the barber with
them.” Whereupon the shearing took plBce. It
is hoped that the poet of the sunflower and velvet
smallclothes will defer his return to London society
until he can shake the aewdrops from a mane of
normal length. It would be sad to see him in front
of Mr. Frith’s picture in the middle of a crowd that
recognised him not .. Captain Lonsdale, in com-
mand of a corps of Africans, joins Stanley on the
Congo, The Frenchman and the “ Portugee ” will
have to “git.” Dr. Spottiswoode, President of
the Royal Society, dead; aged 58. Great scientist,
also Queen’s printer. Eyre and Spottiswoode, you
know Pope suffering from insomnia—Prince
' Louis of Battenberg about to marry the eldest
daughter of the Grand Duke of Darmstadt—
Assassin and Informer Carey, it is now said, is off
to Manitoba.
A highly successful trip—Trip-lets.
A lady contributor to the Echo writes of
“ Chloe, that unhappy maiden.” Isn’t that kinder
calling Chloe out of her name ?
When the celebrated firm, Priggs and Co.,
otherwise “Uniacke,” flourished in Pitt-street, a
young man arrived from Queensland and adver-
tised in the S.M.H. for a billet. In due course, he
received a letter from Messrs. Priggs, who received
him with great urbanity, and inquired if £3OO per
annum would meet his views. The modest youth,
to whom fifteen bob was wealth, thought it would,
and in a moment of enthusiasm formed a resolu-
lution to write to his aunt. “The firm” produced
a pretentious ledger, and in silvery tones requested
a preliminary ten shillings, “ just as a matter of
form, you know.” This being forthcoming, the
fortunate young man departed, and is—still wait-
ing for the billet.
Here is a straight tip for bank directors.
It is no hard mutter to see what is the primary
cause of so many bank officials becoming defaulters
—especially up North. Take any northern town as
an example—Herberton, for instance. At Her-
berton, the cheapest rate at which a man can live
in a hotel is three guineas a week, or £163 a year.
There are no private boarding-houses at which a
‘•gentleman” would care about stopping, though
a man of low gregarious tastes might certainly
hang out at a Chinaman’s boarding-house. Yet,
Brisbane banks send clerks—who are expected to
keep up a gentlemanly appearance and behaviour
—up to such a place, and salary them at £l2O a
year. Strike the balance for yourself.
Slumber song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prone by the marge o. that wide walk
Whereon our burgher’s feet are pressed,
While nigh him clacked their ceaseless talk,
He lay at rest.
What though those waters o’er him crawl
Which make the city’s Helicon
And smear his couch ? Unheeding all
He slumbered on.
How free, how fine, how godlike swelled
The outline of his sinewy form!
Like some fair tree before us felled
By some foul storm.
His tawny locks in careless grace
Caught, or appeared to catch, the light,
And flamed around his noble face
An aureole bright.
Pillow’d on one athletic arm
His head reposed; as though a child
Again he felt the holy charm
Of mother mild.
Noon wilted Into shadowy eve;
The stars shone out; the moonshine came;
Dews fell, nor wakening could achieve—
He slept the same.
When Night and Dawn again had met,
Calm as a cell-enfolded monk.
He slumbered on—he slumbers yet:
He was so drunk.
Back-block Photographs.
OLD JU[?]S
Old Julius has got married after travelling
through the world so long with a love-proof
panoply. He was one of those men whom
you would believe you could never mate in
any number of moves. He was a skilled
pawnbroker while he had a pawn to exchange,
and even the tactics of a pair of bishops
could not get him into the embarrassing
position of renouncing his freedom and ac-
cepting a mate. He would entrench himself
behind some castle, and would wink round
knowingly at the company.
It happened at hist, however; and he is
now married. “Mate in three moves!”
cried the by-standers; and, sure enough,
although he made a half-hearted struggle,
the bishop came down upon him, and his
roving career was over.
“How did it happen ?” asked a few visit-
ing bachelors, who had been absent at the
close of the game. “ How did Edith catch
you ?”
Old Julius was sitting in smoking cap and
slippers, in a broad weather-boarded house,
with an anucapnic lamp burning brightly
before him, and a “ mated-at-last ” look
about him, which, although showing some
lines of subdued emotion and tethered en-
terprise, yet exhibited that tranquillity and
resignation which a brave man who has done
his best always wears. The bravest men are
the calmest under defeat.
“ How did Edith catch you ?” repeated his
old acquaintances. “Did she throw science
at you? captivate you with dissertations on
the immensity of the universe, when star
calls to star and is never heard across the
wide floors of eternal space ? Did she dive
into the profound abyss, deep, deep down,
where the everlasting Nothing dwells in
unspeakable silence, and did she then soar
aloft, beyond the gates of the morning star,
and revel in the dazzling splendours of inex-
tinguishable suns ? Was that the game Edith
played ? ’
“No,” replied old Julius, “Edith didn’t
throw science at me. Louisa did that twenty
years ago. Louisa used come up with the
doctrines of Maupertuis on her finger ends,
and used go on about rotundity and atmos-
pheric pressure and a lot of things. I re-
member her very well. She had black hair
and hazel eyes, thin lips and a straight nose.
Mind you, she tickled me. If anyone wanted
atmospheric pressure, Louisa was just his
mark. But atmospherio pressure was not
my style, I played the dolce far niente gam-
bit. aud escaped,”
“ But how did Edith do i 1 ?” cried the
inquisitive friends. “ Did she go in for his-
tory ? Did she untold the philosophy of the
Acta Humana to you, and show you that
everything you regarded as a fact was only
a fable? Did she work you back into the
infancy of the world, and reveal to you that
the civilization of our com emporaries is only
the logical outcome of the sagacity of our
scalp-hunting ancestors ?”
“No,” replied old Julius; “Edith didn't
throw history at me. Annie did that fifteen
years ago. Annie had read Hume and Lin-
gard, aud had Maguall’s Historical Questn ns
by heart, aud was far gone in the fever
of the new school of history writers, and
could rhapsodise like Michelet and posture
like Lamartine. Since her day I have never
calle l any man a scoundrel, not even if I
caught him with his hand in my pocket or
his knife at my throat. I let some other
body oall him a name—for I am quite sure
in fifty years after this some historian
of the new school will prove, from hither-
to unpublished documents, that the man
in question was much maligned, a>,d that
all who blamed him in his day were
addle-headed Pecksniffs aud irreclaimable
donkeys. About the time of my acquaint-
ance with Annie, my house was robbed. I
caught the fellow as he was getting over the
fence, and. after a smart scuffle, I put him
under. I marched him to the police quarters
under cover of a patent Colt. But, coining
near the place, 1 remembered Annie’s views.
The new school of historians, she had told
me, was growing, and I did not want to go
down to posterity as, in the language of
Froude, a thick-headed Conservative who,
by sluggishness of disposition and inertness
of intellect, was incapable of appreciating
the frank aud undisguised sentiments of my
bush Cromwell. So, as I was a little bit
weak on Annie, I let him go. Mind you,
Annie tickled me. She was a tali girl with
a small mouth, a hooped nose, green glasses,
and a headache. But I adopted the al fresco
defence after dinner, and escaped.”
“How did Edith do it?” persisted the
bachelors. “ Was it religion she opened
with? Did she play off the sad risks to
which the female is subject who wanders
through this vale of tears without a home
and the strong hand of a protector? Did
she attack your front with the criiel-heart-
edness of man, his frivolity and recklessness,
and his deafness and dumbness to the sympa-
thies he has awakened ? Did she prove from
venerable sources that it is bad for man to
be alone, and did she then rout your flanks
by intimating that one little heart was con-
cerned for you and that only in the virtuous
household true happiness could be found?”
“No,” replied old Julius. “Edith didn’t
play off religion. Ten years ago there was a
dead set made on me in that way. Sarah
came along with tracts in her pockets and
the Apooalypst- in her head. She could prove
anything from that Apocalypse, even to the
fact that I was to marry a pious, virtuous
woman. Mind you, Sarah tickled me. But
when she came the length of bringing in her
own red bead and blue eyes, I responded
with the vamoose gambit, aud escaped.”
“ But Edith—how did she manageit, Julius ?
How did she manage it ? Was it money ?”
“No.”
“Was it beauty?”
“No.”
“Now, come it, old man,” cried all the
bacnelors in chorus. “Give us the move.
You must now, Julius!”
“Well,” replied old Julius, fairly cornered,
“ I’ll tell you. 1 saw Edith one day studying
a Cookery Book, I asked her to prepare a
dinner from it with her own hands, anu she
did it capital, my boys, capital. So I married
her.”
The Furniture Column.
List No. 7, taken from Messrs. Campbell Brothers’
Economical House Furnishing: Guide.
For the sum of £200 prompt net cash,
you can furnish a house as follows:
DRAWING ROOM.
Fine-toned seven-octave walnut piano-
forte, by Bord
Music-stool to match
Drawing-room Suite, in green or crimson
silk damask
Inlaid walnut marble-top sideboard, with
plate glass back and doors ..
Inlaid walnut centre table
Pier glass. 50 x 40
Shaped whatnot
Walnut occasional chess-top or inlaid table
Marble clock
Pair of large lustres or suit of vases
Lamp .. ..
Black and gold cornice pole, with rings,
pins, and brackets
Pair lace curtains
Pair curtain bands.,
Bronzed fender
Set of fire irons
Tapestry carpet, choice of patterns
Axminster rug
W ool mat
DINING ROOM.
Superior leather dining-room suite, con
sisting of couch, arm chair, lady's chai
£ a. d.
36
30 0 0
8 10
4 15
6 15
1 1
1 1
3 15
1 10
17 0
18
10
6
17
7
3 10
13
6
BEDROOM No. 1.
Handsome tubular bedstead, with head
and foot rails
Pair best palliasses
Hair matti ess .. ..
Kaook bolster
Two feather pillows
Seven-draw cedar chest of drawers
Mahogany toilet table, with swing glass
and marble-top washstand to match
Double toilet service
Engraved ca-all
Towel horse
Woven seat rocking chair
Two balloon-back bedroom chairs..
Best fancy matting
BEDROOM No. 2.
Double tubular bedstead
Pair palliasses
Flock mattress
Bolster
Pair feather pillows
Large chest drawers
Towel rail, washstand, and toilet set
Caraffe
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Two cane-seat chairs
Matting
BEDROOM No. 3.
Half-tester bedstead
Pair palliasses
Matti ess
Bolster
Fi ather pillow
Chest of drawers ..
Washstand and set
Toilet glass
C.8. chair
Matting
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Bedstead, with curtain r d
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washftand a .d set..
Toilet table
Toilet glass
Chair
Matting
3 17 6
17 6
3 10 0
9 6
10 6
5 0 0
10 10 0
1 16 0
1 6
6 6
9 6
15 0
16 Q
2 15 0
15 0
1 15 0
4 6
10 0
3 5 0
13 0
1 3
10 0
7 0
10 0
8 0
5 0
9 6
9 6
2 6
5 0
0 0
17 6
3 6
5 0
5 0
0 0
9 6
9 6
4 6
13 0
7 6
3 0
2 6
2 0
KITCHEN.
Dresser with drawer
Table with drawer
Round wire meat safe
Two chairs
Pink or blue line dinner service as
follows:—
13 soup plates 5s 6d, 12 meat plates 5s
13 pudding plates, 4s 13 cheese plates 3s ..
Four vegetable dishes
Five meat dishes 9s 3d, two pie dishes 3s ..
Soup tureen 12s 6d, two sauce tureens 5s 6d
Two gravy boats
White and gold china tea and breakfast
service as follows:—
Six teacups and saucers
Six coffee cups and saucers
Six plates, 6 inch, 3s 3d; six plates, 7-inch, 4s
Sugar basin 2s 9d, Milk jug Is 9d .1
Cream jug Is 3d, Butter dish 3s
Slop basin Is, Six egg cups Is 6d
Two bread and butter plates
Two side dishes 5s, Muffineer 3s
Toast rack 4s 6d, Metal teapot 10s 6d
Revolving E.P. cruet
Pair salt cellars 3s, 8e jugs 3s 6d
Suite of fern glassware as follows :—
Set of four decanters
Six tumblers 5s, Six sherry wines 3s
Six (tort wines 3s, six soda glasses 5s
six custard glasses
Six jelly glasses
Six dinner knives
Six dessert knives f ivory
Pair carvers .. f handles
Steel )
Six dinner forks ..
8ix dessert forks ..
Four table spoons ..
Six dessert spoons..
Six tea spoons
Six egg spoons
Mustard spoon
Two salt spoons
Set metal dish covers
Kettle, 78. 6 .; boiler, 12s
Four saucep ms, lls. 9d.; frying-pan, 2s...
Gridiron, Is 6d; coffee-pot, 3s; colander, 3s
Wash basin, 3s.; dipper, Is.; canister, Is ..
Tubs, 5s., 6s. 6d., 7s. 6d.; Buckets, Is. 9d.
and 2s.
Washboard, Is. 6d.; two candlesticks, Is. 6d
Hand lamp, 2s.; cake tin, Is. 3d
Baking dishes, 8d., 10d„ Is
Bread grattr, 9d.; pepper caster, 6d.
Flour dredge, 9d.; set skewers, Is ..
Knife-box, 2s. 6d.; paste-board an8 roller,
3s. 6d
Pair flat-irons, 4s. 6d.: pair bellows, 2s. 6d.
Banister brush, Is. 6d.; millet broom. Is.
Hair-broom, 4s. 6d.; scrub brush, Is. 6d. ..
Set shoe-brushes, 4s. 6d.; dust pan, Is. 3d.
Knife-board and polish
14 0
12 6
17 6
7 0
10 6
7 0
11 0
13 3
18 0
2 0
Electro-
plated
3
3
3
6
3
6
2 0
8 0
15 0
15 0
6 6
10 0
8 0
8 0
6 0
6 0
15 0
10 0
8 6
2 9
15 0
13 0
10 0
12 0
6 0
6 0
1 0
2 0
1 15 0
19 6
13 9
5 6
4 0
12 9
3 0
3 3
2 6
1 3
1 9
6 0
7 0
2 6
6 0
5 9
2 3
£200 0 0
Note.—Bord’s pianos have lately been reduced
to £24. The total cost of the house is therefore
only £198.
The Eighth example of good value, viz., the £300
list, will appear in this column next week.
Campbell Brothers,
Hoyal Furnishing Arcade,
426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL,


o p
ERA
Lessoe, W. J. Wilson.
Stage Manag
Treasurer, J.
HOUSE.
Sub- Lessee, A. T. Dunning.
er, T. B. Appleby.
F. Goldsworthy.
ANOTHER GREAT SUCCESS !
THE KING’S DRAGOONS
THE KING’S DRAGOONS,
and
THE WONDERFUL DANCE,
again received with the Greatest Enthusiasm, by a
Crowded House in every part, while
NUMBERS HAD TO BE TURNED AWAY.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit, 2s.
Box plan at Huenerbien s Music Warehouse, 411
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date in advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musurovb.
3rd WEEK AND ESTABLISHED SUCCESS of
MISS JENNIE LEE,
as
“JO,”
played by her over 2000 times in the principal oities
of the world, supported by
Mr. J. P. BURNETT
and a carefully selected Company.
Business Manager for Miss Lee, LIDDY.
Archibald Forbes.
MASONIC HALL. POPULAR PRICES.
THREE FAREWELL
LECTURES
By the famous Special Correspondent of the
Daily News.
MONDAY, July ft.—EXPERIENCES OF A WAR
CORRESPONDENT.
TUESDAY, July 10.—WARRIORS I HAVE
KNOWN.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 11.—KINGS & PRINCES
I HAVE MET.
Front Seats, 35.; Back Seats and Balcony, 2s.
R. S. SMYTHE.
ROTESTANT
HALL.
SATURDAY, 14th OF JULY,
at 2.30 p.m.
Sig. P. G^IORZA.
FAREWELL CONCERT.
PIANO, SINGING,
GRAND ORCHESTRA.
Plan for reserved seats now open at Paling’s
Music Warehouse.
INTERCOLONIAL JUVENILE INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.
Patron : His Excellency the Governor.
President: Sir George Wigram Allen, Knt.
To be held in Parramatta Park.
OPENING DAY, WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER lft.
Schedules will be issued in about 14 days.
R. H. DELOW, I „ Joint
CHAS. E. NOWLING, f Hon. Secs.
Parramatta,
25th June, 1883.
VICTORIA HALL,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Lessee
Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
Place of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
for any lirst-class entertainments. The Lessee open
to Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Office, Melbourne.
OYDNEY ANNUAL STUD SHEEP SALES.
~ MORT and CO.
will hold their NINTH ANNUAL SALE of
Pure-bred Men no Stud R ams&Ewes
at their
WOOL WAREHOUSES, CIRCULAR QUAY,
commencing on
TUESDAY, 17th JULY,
at 10 o’clock,
and continuing on the
WEDNESDAY and THURSDAY following,
when about
1000 RAMS and 450 EWES,
comprising FIRST SELECTIONS from the Stud
Floolrs of celebrated breeders in Tasmania, New
South Wales, and Queensland, will be offered at
public auction for Unreserved Sale.
The catalogue will include drafts from the fol-
lowing breeders :
TASMANIA.
Messrs. James Gibson, David Taylor. W. H.
Gibson, Thomas Parramore, George Parraraore,
J. D. Toosey, jun., Robert Jones, W.A. Kermode,
J. B. Gibson, George W. Keach, Charles Field,
Herbert Gatenby, William Gatenbv, Robert D.
Finlay, William H. Bennett, Joseph Archer, James
Taylor, John Gibson, John L. Smith, D. M Kin-
non, James Cox, E. Dowling, Maurice Weston,
Henry S. Smith.
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Messrs. J. F. and H. White, of Belltrees and
Glenalvon ; James D. Cox, of Cullenbone, Mudgee.
QUEENSLAND.
Messrs. Geo. Clarke, East Talgai; C. B. Fisher,
Headington Hill.
COMPLETE CATALOGUES,
Showing breeding and pedigree of each animal,
will shortly be issued, and the Auctioneers will be
glad to forward copies by post to intending buyers
on application.
MORT and CO.,
Woolbrokers and Stock and
Station Agents,
CIRCULAR QUAY AND DARLING HARBOUR,
Sydney.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
No. 4 PITT STREET.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGON S
FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 22 & 24 C/arence-st,
SYDNEY.
GO
h"
a
o
CJ k
LU
CO?
CO
or
oa
dr
o
1
o
o
CP
37
SB
&
a
SP
o
CP
c£
s>
SaS^
rfi
BROOKS SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
FOB
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
White, Black & all Colours
BROOK’S PATENT
GLAC£ THREAD
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL.
\ /.
THE SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB
AMATEUR
Champion Race Meeting,
To be held at the
NEW SOUTH WALES CRICKET ASSOCIATION GROUND,
Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.,
ON SATURDAY, AUGUST 4, 1883.
PROGRAMME:
No. I.—One Mile Champion Bicycle Race:—
The Championship of New South Wales, and I
the “Special Club” Bicycle Trophy ; to be [
won twice in succession or three times in all, and r
it has been competed for once already. Pre- V
sented by Herbert S. Bale, Esq. value, 60 1
guineas. J
Ist Prize—Gold Medal
2nd Prize—Silver Medal
!
VAT/tJE.
8 guineas.
2.—Ten Miles Champion Bicycle Racel lst Prize—Gnld
For the Championship of N.S. Wales ) 2nd Prize—Silver Meda
S.-Two Miles Open Handicap Bicycle Race - -<> arizes -
4. Four Miles Open Handicap Bicycle Race -
5. One Mile Open Handicap Bicycle Race -
6. Half Mile Open Handicap Umbrella Bicycle
Race (without using handles) -
7. 100 Yards Slow Bicycle Race -
8. —One Mile Open Handicap Tricycle Race -
9. _440 Yards Open Handicap Foot Race -
10.—100 Yards Scratch Foot Race- -
- 3 Prizes -
- 3 Prizes -
- 3 Prizes -
_1 3 Prizes -
- 3 Prizes -
- 3 Prizes -
- 3 Prizes -
- 2 Prizes -
} “
-6, 3, & 2
-8, 4, &2
-G, 3, &2
-4, 3, &2
-3, 2, &1
-5, 3, & 2
-4, 3, & 2
-6& 3
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
Square,
not be
Meinrath’s
SHIRTS.
MEINRATH’S SHIRTS.
96 King Street, Only.
•SiaiHS S.HJEYHKISM
Meinrath’s
SHIRTS.
■
Hordern brothers,
211 Pitt-street (only),
Contractors to the Government of New
South Wales for
:ARPETS, OILCLOTHS, LINOLEUM, &c,
You can get anything here you want
in the furnishing way. We have been
selected from among the many com-
pe«itor.for™p^™ ?H tbo. T
’'“carpets and FLOORCLOTHS
that they require. This ought to be a
sufficient guarantee that we can supply
you cheaper and better than any other
house in the city. ,
We are obliged to keep a very large
and choice stock of the best carpets
extant, for Public purposes, so why
should not you benefit by coming in
and seeing (you are not.askpd to buy)
the very latest designs in floor cover-
ings.
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING in large
variety.
The MORESQUE CARPET is a very
choice thing indeed, and not at all out
of the way expensive.
VELVET PILE SQUARES direct from
Germany,
Just opened, and now being shown, are
about the choicest and most modern
goods obtainable. We have them in
two sizes, viz., 12 feet 0 inches by 9 feet
10 inches, and 10 feet by 6 feet 8 inches.
They are in one piece, and beautifully
coloured. The pattern is not repeated,
as in ordinary carpets that are sold by
the yard, but the design covers the car-
pet, and lias a very rich, and indeed
grand effect. , . ... , , „
Another advantage is, this style ox
carpet need not* ana in fact is not sup-
posed to cover the room, but is laid in
the centre, and the floor is painted or
polished all around it, which is a mani-
fest advantage as the carpet can be taken
up at a moment’s notice and laid down
again by an inexperienced person ; also,
wo would mention, you cannot spoil
them by spilling water upon them, as
they will wash like a piece of calico. In
price they are very reasonable indeed,
the lowest being only 635. Come in and
see them to-day.
The largest and best stock of
OILCLOTHS and LINOLEUMS is here.
Remember we are the Contractors to
the Government of N.S. Wales.
HORDERN BROTHERS. 311 Pitt-Street.
MANTLES are the goods in which we
excel.
We have a very large, choice, and
varied stock of these goods, and have
just augmented it by a shipment of
choice Ladies’ and Children’s Mantles
direct from Germany. We don t know
how it is, but these German goods seem
to place the British and Pans goods in
the shade altogether, both as regards
style, shape, and price.
We are now showing in our northern
window a beautiful range of these
goods, and when down town this after-
noon have a look at these goods, and re-
member th <t if you do not see in the
window what you want, come in and
ask for it.
In our southern window you can see
some sweetiy pretty BALL DRESSEb,
fit to clothe a princess;
Also all the etceteras for evening wear
are in the window, hut convey only a ;
slight impression of the extensive and :
choice assortment of these goods kept.
We have also a grand lot of Winter ;
Millinery, to suit young, middle-aged, ;
and old ladies. Widows' Caps, Infants’
Hoods, Bridal Wreaths, Wedding Trous-
seaux, largo variety, and cheap.
DRESS DEPARTMENT.—We would
remind you that at no part of the winter
season have we been better asserted.
We have, indeed, a grand lot of Checks
and Tartans, Merinos, Cashmeres, Gren-
adines, and plain Goods in all the new
colours. Also, in the Mourning Goods,
you would fail to find a nicer, more eco-
nomical, or in any way a better stock
anywhere in the colony. We pay par-
ticular attention to Mourning orders,
getting the goods direct from the manu-
facturer, and supplying them to you at
the least possible advance in price. Give
us a trial.
In the SILK DEPARTMENT, for
variety and price of all classes of those
good, we stand unrivalied. All the
dressmakers come to us, and they un-
derstand what is what; so this ought to
he a guarantee for price, Btyle, and
variety.
GLOVES for ladies, gentlemen, and
children, for walking, visiting, evening
wear, or driving, can be obtained here
in greater variety, more reasonable in
price, and we are sure as modern in
style and colouring as anywhere in the
Southern Hemisphere. And now last,
but not least,
The TAILORING DEPARTMENT,
which we have but recently started. We
have a grand cutter, a fashionable
stock, and a large staff of working
tailors, and have the reputation for be-
ing prompt and smart in everything, so
ladies advise your fathers, husbands,
lovers, and sons to go to HORDERN
BROTHERS, in Pitt-street, for their
Suits, Overcoats, Riding and Boating
Clothes, and you will find thorn dressed
as fashionably and as neatly as if they
went to the oldest, most antiquated,
and dearest shop in the city.
HORDERN BROTHERS is our name,
and our address, 311 Pitt-street (only).
Pei'sonal supervision, honest dealing,
and push, and your kind favour (for
which we thank you) are the reasons of
our great success.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Sll, PITT STREET (ONLY.)
near King-street.
OMESPUNS. HOMESPUNS.
HOMESPUNS.
HORDERN BROTHERS have just
opened 2 largo cases of the above. Call
to-day, and see them.
Full widths at 6d, 7id, Bid, 9id, KRd, Is.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
in Pitt-street.
O VELTIES, NOVELTIES,
NOVELTIES,
Checks and Plaids, with Plain Materials
to correspond, in the most approved
shades, stich as Browns, Marones,
Paon, Sepia, Burgundy, Navy, Bronze,
Claret, &e. &c.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
in Pitt-street.
RESSES, DRESSES. DRESSES.
D
HORDERN BROTHERS’ COSTUME
CLOTHS, at (id, 7id, Bid, 10d, Is.
HORDERN BROTHERS’ Fouß Serges,
at 9ld, lOld, Is, Is, 2d, Is 3d, Is 4id
HORDERN BROTHERS’ Kilmarnock
Tweeds, at 7id, 9-id, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d
HORDERN BROTHERS’ Yorkshire
Serges, 9id, Is, Is 3d, Is (id.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
in Pitt-street.
Armstrong’s Remedy for Internal or
Bleeding Piles
Rapidly superseding' all other modes of treatment
For the CURE of HEMMERHOIDS, largely pre-
scribed by the Faculty. It improves the general
HEALTH, equalises the CIRCULATION, relieves
CONGESTION, stops BLEEDING, Pain, and Itch-
ing, in from 34 to 28 hours. Sold in bottles only, at
4s. 6d. and 10s.
ARMSTRONG’S PARAGON PILE OINTMENT,
FOR OUTWARD PILES. Price, 2s.
Armstrong’s (Camomile) Liver and Bilious
Pills,
For the Cure of Indigestion, Dyspepsia,P ains in
the Side, Headache, Giddiness, Heartburn, Flatu-
lency. and Habitual Constipation. They give a
Healthy Tone and Vigour to the necessary Organ!
of Digestion—the Stomach and Liver—and being
mild in their operation, promote Digestion, restore
the Appetite, and strengthen the entire System.
Price, Is., 25., and 4s. 6d.
Armstrong’s Red Jamaica Sarsaparilla,
in Combination with Dandelion and Potash.
“ Recommended by the Highest Medical authority
as a Vitalising Blood Restorative and Tonic.
6s. od., 10s. 6d., 21s.
Goods forwarded to all parts of the coloniei
and Price Lists sent post free.
100 PITT STREET}, SYDNEY,
Two Doors below Compagnoni’s.
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WKD*
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mackay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
* To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
42 King Street, Sydney.


POLITICAL POINTS.
The British Under Secretary of State for
the Colonies has declined to advise tho Governor
nf New South Wales to increase the reward of
c'lOO offered for the solution of the Bermagui
mvstery. What the deuce has the Under Secre-
rarv for the Colonies got to do with advising the
Governor of New South Wales?
PRO-ROGUING.
What comes before roguing ? Proroguing
of course—
And now that the proroguing’s dot e,
So gaily off they go,
And practise just the same old fun.
But, mind, without the pro!
The “Protestant Ascendancy” gag brought
to bear in Melbourne against Bromby, of 1 asmania,
lecturing in the Town Hall (which had been duly
let to him for the purpose) on “The fnglishin
Ireland.” Mayor Dodgson persuaded to cancel tho
arrangement by which Bromby had secured tho
Hall. Case of Dodgson and no Fog-a-basif gh.
Of Mr. Bromby, who has taken up the
cudgels for Mr. Redmond, the Age says ttu proper
thing for the Land League to do would be to ship
him home, freight and duty paid, and inv iced as
dangerous goods not wanted on the voy age If he
is an Englishman, he is a disgrace to the name;
and if he is an Irishman, the proper place . or him
is Ireland. Bosh !
HIS WOUNDED HONOR; OR, VALUE RECEIVED.
The law laid down by Chief Justice Cole-
ridge, in respect of “ Maintenance" in the decision
anent the Bradlaugh v. Newdegate case, holds re-
sponsible all as ociations of individuals who sub-
scribe to take proceedings against any person;
every speculative lawyer who takes up a case on
the chance of what he can get out of the other
side; and everybody who supports the litigation
of a person who is unable to go to law on his own
account.
Asks “ Currente Calamo
“ Why not stick to your Post, Mr. Wright ?
You’d suit better there a blank sight.
In your first position
Could arise no suspicion
lie your Arm and the Works, Mr. Wright, Mr.
W right,
JRe carriage and freights, Mr. Wright.”
Henry Harry Cooke and William Robins
Stone represented Forbes and Parkes at the late
Albury fete. Tho former is a Mayor and an Orange-
man, and the latter is an ex-Mayor and an ex-
Orangeman. The latter honourable “ex ” was
accorded Stone because ho refused to give a pig-
vote at the last election at the bidding of the
Lodge in favour of Cooke. William R. Stone
ought to be prouder of this “ex” before, than a
C.M.G. after, his “monnilter.”
Lord Reay, it is said, has been offered the
envovsbip to the Boers. If Reay is as canny a Scot
as his name, Donald Mackay, would imply, he
won’t go. Sir William Gurdon (whom tho Sydney
dailies will call Mr. Guerdon) evidently doesn’t see
it. Fact is it requires a very rare sort of man to
go to South Africa specially to eat humble pie,
and that’s what someone has to go for, since the
song ol' the Boer, according to a London paper is—
“ My big Bulldog cannot know what he’s about,
He seems in a bit of a fog.
If the dog wore the stronger, he’d rule me, no
doubt.
As it is, I shall just rule the dog.”
So Lord Randolph Churchill has publiclY
accused the Khedive of being the real instigator
of the massacres of Europeans at Alexandria.
Hush-sli-shl It would be altogether inconvenient
to admit the possibility of such a thing. Why, His
Highness is our respected ally. He is the distin-
guished source of honour who formally degraded
that wretch Arabi, and who conferred distinctions
upon Lords Wolscley and Alcester, and our
picked heroes for—hem! well,yes—for slaughtering
his people. We decline to believe the story. We
resolutely refuse to listen to such wickedness.
Only think how dismally inconvenient, it would be
if we didn’t scream down such allegations!
Who’s afraid? " Fear.” cried the Czar, “I
know not fear.” The mail news tells us that at the
emperor’s coronation “sticks, umbrellas, parcels,
even such small ones as are used tor sandwiches,
biscuits, and even fruit, will not be permitted. All
the shops will be closed and the proprietoi 8 guarded
by the military. The owners of houses are strictly
forbidden to let rooms or windows to strangers,
and are also responsible for any persons venturing
on the roofs of their houses, which will be guarded
by the military.” What safite is the foregoing on
oil the recent telegram, “ that the Czar in the
coronation procession rode alone, without the
slightest fear.”
As everybody knows, the ultra-squatters
of Queensland are opposing M’lhvraith s trans-
continental railway scheme. Well, these gentle-
men are real patriots, one of them recently ottered
Government £1,000,000 to secure a gigantic freehold
in Queensland, but M’llwraith refused to transfer
to one man some 4,000,000 of the colony’s best acres.
This cleariy evinces the terrible fear of creating
landed monopolies existing in the minds of the
men who have allied themselves to the so-called
Liberal party. They affirm that they do not like
the details of the transcontinental agreement,
when in reality it is the principle they dread. -The
principle means to them the resumption of land
for railway purposes—resumptions in a form which
they undoubtedly will not be able to control.
The Echo on the 20th ult., the anniversary
of the Queen’s Accession, did a very big gush in-
deed about Her Gracious Majesty, winding up,
though, with a most pathetic anticlimax. Having
teemed out ladlefuls of melted flutter as to her
personal character and so on, it went on to speak
of the growth of he culm, finishing off with—
“ And if the voice ol re Australian colonies is
sufficiently potent, her e .'(lire will shortly be still
further increased by annexations of islands to the
north and east of Australia. The y might indeed tall
into worse hands.” Tho italics are ours. They
form the anticlimax referred to. There s some-
thing eminently ridiculous in the idea of heaping
up outrageous praise on a fellow, and then telling
him (or her) that it’s Just possible there may be
worse people in the world!
The Northern Miner, of Charters Towers,
has a fiery article recommending the annexation
of the New Hebrides, albeit it employs plain En-
glish, and terms the necessary raid “buccaneer-
ing.” The Miner says: “There is a general
consensus of opinion in Australia that the annexa-
tion is necessary for the protection of the colonics,
and, if the Home Government refused to sanction
it, the colonies would be justified in protecting
themselves even at the sacrifice of the Imperial
connection. It is not improbable that the federa-
tion of the colonies will be precipitated by the
action now taken by Victoria for the annexation
of the Hebrides group. Once those islands are
annexed there is no reason in the world why we
should not extend our conquests and seize upon
the Santa Cruz Islands, the Malaya Islands,
the Solomon Group, and New Britain and
New Ireland, to the east of New Guinea. If
England will not consent to this extension of
territory and consequent responsibility, the united
colonies may undertak6tkc work, and that would
constitute the first act of independence. Popular
feeling in Australia will go in the direction pointed
out by Victoria, and if England should refuse to
go along with the colonies, the question will then
arise, Is the English connection any longer neces-
sary? is it to hamper our onward inarch, or expose
us to the hazard of foreign menace and danger ? ”
When the First Lord of the Admiralty reads this,
he will most likely order a gunboat to proceed to
Charters Towers, to exercise a “moral influence”
upon Thady O’Kane. And then he will learn that
the ship-railway to the Towers has not yet been
completed—that, in fact, no such work has been
begun. And now here’s a cable to the effect that
England won’t let us annex New Guinea. By next
week, we dare say, Thadeus will be locked up tor
high treason. # #
Zox, M.L.A., of Melbourne, is not quite
easy in his mind about the Petty business. Wax-
maii says: “ I have made him a Member of Parlia-
ment, and now I’ll unmake him.”... Handsome
Fred. Cooper, who was so lucky the °ther day m
the Victorian matrimonial market, and J. D. Cxib-
son, late of the Palmer Chronicle, have an-
nounced themselves as candidates lor Cook, (Q.)
Cooper has long and shamefully neglected his
electorate, and Tots of the people now know him
too well to be gulled by his sort sawder.. . . .T otal
revenue of Victoria for year ending June 30,1833,
was £5,589,472; that for South Australia tor same
period was £2,086,204 A Local Self-Government
League established in N.S.W Parliament fur-
ther prorogued to 21st August next... -G. W. Hall,
M.P. for Moira, appointed Victorian Government
whip for Radical division of Assembly.... One
yarn is that Parkis goes home to try and float a
syndicate for tho purchase of several large areas
of land in the colony. ... New Zealand House of
Representatives have rejected the Bible m state
Schools Bill by 52 to 10. A crusher 1... .Premier
Stuart means to visit Inverell in August next.....
Derby preserves a masterly passivity rc Pacific
.... Australian Transcontinental Syndicate of Eng-
land registered shareholders are—Earl of Denbigh;
Messrs. W. Fieldon, F. Braby, C. G. Hale, W.
Duncan, London; E. L. Montefiore, Pans; E. R.
Dro v, Brisbano-who hold 100 shares each.......
Tee 3. Treasurer, in his Budget speech on Wed-
nesday last, said that the encouragement given to
settlement in small holdings by deterred payments
and p rpetual leases was considerably affecting the
land revenue by decreasing receipts; but the policy
was good. He also invited discussion of a scheme
for compulsory national insurance... Thus prophe-
sies the London Spectator: “Papua will, within
two generations, be neither English, French, or
(sir) German, but Australian. The Federal Re-
public of Australia is a certainty, and it will claim
Papua, even if it has to fight Germany or France.”
This is cheery news for our Volunteers. All resig-
nations must be sent in before the Age correspon-
dent sets lire to New Guinea N.S.W. Radical
Association formed. Goes in for woman’s rights
(and lefts. No. 14), payment of members, nationali-
sation of land, an elective Upper House, and other
luxuries.
* * *
It is a sign of the times that so respectable
a paper as the Spectator is found writing against
enormous fortunes. Ten years ago it dared not
have done so There is more proverty in New
York than in any city in the world, not ex-cepting
London, and yet at the great ball given by the
Vanderbilts the 800 people present were worth in
the aggregate £110.000,000. Yet we are horrified at
Socialistic demands The Bhinwarries, we see,
have captured a convoy of munitions, proceeding
from India to Cabul. These Shinwarrn s seem to
need a lot of licking. On the Bt,h of May they
attacked the Ameer’s troops at Tajiri, and were
beaten w th a loss of 700, yet here they are again.
After Mr. Bradlaugh had stood at the bar of
tho Commons delivering his speech, It was found
that the bar could not bo drawn back. It is con-
structed on the telescope principle, and Bradlaugh
had bo grasped and shaken It in the course ol his
oration that it had been thrown out of gear....
In Armenia, a plot is said to have been discovered
for a rising in favour of Armenian independence,
and relations existed between the Armenians and
the Russian Nihilists An extraordinary appli-
cation was made in May by a I orkshire solicitor
in a county court, namely»that some portions ol a
will made by a Leeds confectioner in favour ol
Secularism and Republicanism should be declared
illegal and void, as against public policy. The de-
ceased 44 sweety M man had left considerable sums
to be invested in forming secularist clubs, lecture
halls &c., at the discretion of his executors, of whom
Charles Bradlaugh was one. The judge declined to
make any order, as he was not prepared to say
that the propagation of Republicanism and
Secularism by legal means was i11ega1......
France and China a tort et A travers Ashantees
alleged to be begging for a British Protectorate. ..
United States object to receiving pauper emigrants
from Great Britain and Ireland O’Donnell has
seceded from the Parnellites English barristers
repudiate the idea of the validity of de Lesseps
claim to a monopoly in regard to Suez Canals.
Free translation: “ Nemo mortalium omni-
bus horissapit.” No mortal knows what He paid
lor cab-hires.
Robus and blooming health In Hop bitters,
and no family can afford to be without thpm.
Read.


iTHtDrFFNP%^
Mob*
to Cl
£U cm* sot I*' 1 *' OL
VLI
b* I
%s
e -
Ijo, Vie c,,h fe<L CA^-x-
Witness believed he was correctly reported to have said at
a council meeting that “ If it was not for party feeling,
Davies would be in the Soup Kitchen.
Mr. Davies angrily told me to sit down, and said that if I
was three mayors he would make me sit down.
“ i have something in my pocket that will bring you down from your pedestal.’
Alderman Young spoke about Alderman Davies having received a Present of
some iron railings from some Corporation contractors named Bradford.
Mr. Woolcott was instructed to make all
necessary preparations for the picnio.
A few days after witness was told that his
tender was accepted, he gave Mr, Davies
the ring,
Mr. Harris said a pood deal about having
something in his pocket that would
bring Mr. Davies down. After a care-
ful scrutiny of the contents of Mr.
Harris’ pockets, we failed to find any-
thing calculated to bring Mr. Davies
down, unless it were the small coin seen
above.
We scout the idea that Mr. John Davies, C.M.G., ever bolted with a bun-fund.
Sir George Innes: “Now then, spell January.”
Davies (somewhat “flurried”): “J-u-s Jan t-i-c-e
uary—January.”
The C.M.G. will now adopt anew “ Order,”
doubtless.
DAVIES v. HARRIS.


BRIEF MENTION.
“Why do not the banks build ?” asks the
Cootamundra Herald In a leading article.
Simply because fools build houses for—well, for
ank directors.
’ The Sydney D.T. posted a notice that John
Davies had got £lOOO slander damages from Mayor
Harris. The wish was father to the thought.
This is the very latest libel out. Speaking
of the recent Albury shivoo, a Itiverina journal
says: “The ‘Press’ was most enthusiastically
drunk.’’ As the Rum has been issued punctually
ever since the opening, we have no hesitation in
saying the above is a perfect George Lord Carter.
An old lily in a Northern township
demurred to t > ting the oath, saying, •* Why can't
I tell the trut.i just as well without swearing ?"
Poor old simple! Why! some of those witnesses in
the Davies-Harris case would take an oath every
minute of the day. Why! one man would take
’em two at a time.
A debt that must be
paid : Bur-dett. (This is a
legal joke, and knocks clients
to “ Smith-ereens.”)
A Melbourne milkman
confessed in court, not long
ago. that he watered his milk.
Which shows how far behind
our milkmen the Melbourne
ones are. Here they merely
milk the water.
An infant three weeks
old, and a fifty pound note,
were lately discovered on a
door-step in St. Kilda. We
will take delivery of an in-
fant every morning at this
rate. We shall afterwards
sub-let them to Mrs. Ander-
son. of the Destitute Boys’
College, to be educated as
journalists.
A Wagga woman writes
to the local Advertisbr say-
ing that she wants the braneh
of an old gum tree, growing
in one of the streets of that
sylvan city, cut down because
it frightens her at night “ by
its resemblance to the head of
a man.” It is not stated
whether she is an old maid or
a widow, but, evidently she
is not a widow. If she were,
it would be the branch that
would be frightened.
Says the Shroud ;—“The
verdict of the jury In favour
of the Andersons must be
regarded as an expression of
popular dislike of the manner
in which it was sought to
crush an Institution which,
with all its defective manage-
ment, contained the germs of
something better, of a system
which under proper super-
vision and experienced con-
trol might have become de-
serving of material support."
Germs of something better!
Say, better itch; better stock-
ings; better gill-bird shoot-
ing ; better beer; better-
better what ? Better Inever-
wearems ?
The Tenterfied Star
wound up a Sapsea-ish al-
lusion to the 68th auniversary
of the memorable and de-
cisive battle Uf Waterloo,
with the thrilling tale that
C. A. Lee Is the worthy son of
a gentleman who played an
Important partin that scrim-
mage. This was too bad of
the Star. Just when
begun to rejoice that the
Waterloo veteran was becom-
ing as extinct hs the dodo, we
find, the sois, of a veteran
dragged in to,be made a re-
cipient of second hand kudos.
Why it’s as bad as Rossi wear-
ing his father’B medals, or old
Pitt return tog-thanks for the
army because his maiden
aunt was jilted by a light
dragoon.
In the Cooktown Hos-
pital, It was the fashion when
a pauper died,-to get a box of
any shape or dimensions. The
body was then rammed into
it, with the legs tucked
away in a knot, or with his
head jammed under his arm-
pit. Then, while an official
sat on the lid, the chei ry car-
penter produced a pound of
nails and drove them in.
Sometimes the coffin didn’t
hurst on the way to the ceme-
tery, and sometimes it did.
But so long as there was
enough of him left in the box
to shovel in, it was deemed
satisfactory. The committee
have ordered that, in future,
no coffin shorter than four
feet shall be used for adults.
So that it will only be neces-
sary to crack the legs at the
knee.
Bega is the great pig
country. The Bega people
are said to be as fond of their
pigs as the Irish peasantry
are supposed to be. They
cover them with sheep-skins
in the cold weather, and give
them packs of cards to play
euchre with when time
hangs heavy on their feet. In
addition to this, they are pro-
vided with whistles to play
sentimental airs upon, ana the
local papers are read to them
as regularly ns they-the
papers come out. By the
time this educational oourse
is finished the pigs become so
intelligent that theyare irame-
diately shipped off to Sydney
for fear they should begin to
get too wise, and want to
lecture upon theological sub-
jects. What becomes of them
then, we hardly know. Proba-
bly they are made school-in-
spectors. Or country editors.
A ’oute N.S.W. squatter somewhere in the
Riverine district sent all the way to a Melbourne
Aaylum for a cripple to dummy for him. The joy
of release from poverty to becoming a squattah
was too much for the poor old fellow. He turned
up his toes two days after passing through Albury,
and the squattah had to pay his funeral expenses.
You want HrBt to know the squattah to tell how
the death of the old fellow or, rather, his funeral
exposes— carried grief unto the soul of that mag-
In the early days of Sydney were two
darkeys, Combo and Peter. The latter, for sheep
stealing, was sentenced to be hanged, and he gave
his clothes to his sooty friend and countryman,
Combo. When Peter was on the scaffold and
placed under the beam, some delay in turning him
off took place and a murmuring went through
the crowd that he was to be reprieved. Upon this
Combo elbowed his way through, and, getting as
near as possible to his friend, cried out at the top
of his voice: “ Mind, Peter, hang or no hang, bam
em you get ’em clothes backl”
Scene: Liverpool Counoil Chamber. Dra-
matis persona}: The Mayor and three aldermen.
Alderman. No. 1 (apropos to some remarks of
Alderman Brown anent a money vote): “ Aider-
man Brown is a liar and an idiot—a damned idiot!"
Alderman Brown: “I will take the sense of the
Council as to whether I’m a liar and a damned
idiot.” Alderman Wilson: “ Fou take the sense of
the Council, you , . . .” And so on. There
was something very Dogberrylike in Brown’s
notion of taking the sense of the Council as to
whether he was a liar and a damned idiot. If the
ayes h d carried it .
It occurred to us, when we heard that Mr.
and Mrs. Anderson had been thrown from their
buggy whilo returning home from court after
their libel victory over the S. M. Herald, that the
Herald was the only paper in Sydney for whom
Providence would have done so much. The
1 Andersons might have broken their necks, and
, that wouldn’t have been in the public interest;
though, perhaps, if you could get Edward Fairfax
. to tell you all about it under the rose, he would
have preferred their receiving such damages to
those awarded, £l5O and costs. We are glad to
be able to state that two out of the four Jurymen
who tried our case are now dead, and, we presume,
in Heaven. The blessings of Divine Providence
" The instruments to be used for Hogging have been inspected and approved by the Government.
don’t seem to have been ladled out very freely to
Judge Manning lately, either.
Perpetual motion is discovered now.
Andy Lynch did it. He was in the “ thrane ” the
other day, going along, looking as sweet a man as
ever sat under a blue cloud, when he suddenly
said, “ I waz thinking to myself, and so I waz, that
the f iction of the whales of the thrane ought to
phroduce enough electhricity, bedad, to move it
lntoirely.” A timid man, who listened to the
words of wisdom falling from the lips of the great
Italian legislator, asked, “ But how would you
start the train ?” “Oh,” said Andy, airily, “that’s
moighty aizy; you could use the locymotiv ingin
to jist make the electhricity for a sthart, you
know, and till the battheries, and shure, phut's to
sthop the thrane thin from goin’ and goin’ till its
whales wear out entoirely, and ain’t there at all at
all ?” So Andy Lynch, M.P., has discovered it at
last.
The following advertisement appears in a
Maitland paper:—“ £5O Reward.—To the Police In
Singleton District and Others.—My cattle bearing
the Ace of Clubs brand, with number 8 crossways
under, depasturing on Strathisla and other places,
Upper Paterson District, decrease very consider-
ably, and must be driven away or stolen. The
above reward will be paid for secret information
resulting in the conviction of any person or per-
sons.—Herbert H. Brown. Exchange Buildings,
Sjdney, May 7,1883.” With reference to the above,
wo have received the following facetious little
communication:—“ To H. H. Brown, ALL A., per
favour Bulletin.—Sir, In reference to your ad.
in Maitland Mercury, I would suggest that the
decrease in your cattle arises from insufficient
grass, or from in-breeding. Try oil cake. As you
say it is imperative that the cattle be either stolen
or driven awnv, kindly inform me date when you
wish this done, ami I will personally attend to it
for you. Having hereby secretly informed you of
the publication of your advertisement, by which
the author may be convicted, the £5O reward may
be sent to Pat O’Reallv, Gresford.”
The other day a Sydney “young blood”
had a tight with a Melbourne ditto over a question
of ancestry, and got worsted. The matter was to
have come before the courts, but was squared by
the intervention of mutual friends. Aoropos of
the question of ancestry, a Victorian barrister tells
a story, which we think we have heard from the
nigger minstrels, about the “ancestor” of a cer-
tain Melbourne man who is, or used to be, consider-
ably gilded, and who is very proud of his “ ances-
try.” The “old man," in the early days, kept, in
Melbourne, a well-known public-house. The
barrister’s father was an occasional customer, and
one day entering the parlour, found mine host
seated near the fire, with a copy of the Port
Phillip Gazette in his hand mid looking very
dejected. “ What’s the matter, Billy—why so sad ?”
enqu red the man of law. “Ah,” replied Billy,
“there’s been a great accident in the bay yester-
day. I was just reading the paper and it says five
ships came in—and they are all bottom up.” Now
the P.P. Gazette used to print over the notices of
shipping arrivals the ligure of a ship and the old
man had got the paper upside down. This ancestry
quarrel reminds one of the story poor J. C. Patti-
bon used to tell about the Scotch !• quarter who
said he was going home “to his ancestral halls."
Which, explained J.C., “consisted, to my personal
knowledge, of an inverted boat on the Clyde.”
The Fisheries Exhibition in London is a won-
derful affair, covering 22 acres; so vast and in-
tricate as to bewilder the beholder. The trail of
the tarred rope is over it all; and through and
aoout among the craft walk dainty English dandy
yachtsmen, mahogany-looking Chinese, tted Indian
canoers, and sturdy blonds from Norway, lineal
sons of the grand old Viking heroes, indeed, one
of the sights, at of the opening, was a body ot
several hundred fishermen in their real jerseys and
sou’westers, from all the coasts of Britain, ranged
in linos down the building. Awkward, shy, un-
gainly, in the fashionable throng; but men, every
inch of them. Grace Darling’s old coble was there,
and the very boat that carried the Eira men in t he
neighbourhood of the Pole, while the dog that
trotted through the snow lies under the boat;
there are collapsible craft, marvellous lifeboats,
enchanted river launchos with glossy planks and
velvet seats, telling of flirtation and idle hours;
and a raft with soats, like a floating parlour. A
great attraction is where trim and lusty shrimping
girls (who never wore a criooletteor French corset
sinoe they were born) bend their graceful figures
in the making of nets and patching of tackle,
wlille dandydom looks on and relishes the contem-
plation. There are the latest delicate trout rods,
weighing half a pound; and there is weird Chinese
gear, use i when the world was young, and formed
on tne model invented by Noah when his time
hung heavy in the Ark.
The "New South Wales
Social Purity Society ” arc
already sending out circulars
asking for subscriptions. Evi-
dently there is no use in a
poor man trying to keep
pure.
The boat in which Ber-
nard (Jilboy made bis voyage
from San Emneisco to Aus-
tralia is now in the Wax-
works Exhibition. We are
surprised that Bernard is not
there, too.
A soap-boiling firm in
this city advertise that “all
the best families” use their
soap. This is too thin. The
“ best families ” never use
soap. They ate afraid of
washing off their respect-
ability.
Two Vio tori an girls,
named respectively Venus and
Virtue Betts, were recently
expelled from the Industrial
School because of their “ hor-
rible depravity.” The old
story, we suppose—Venus led
Virtue astray.
We remember reading
once, in a cheerful little book,
entitled “Melancholy Exam-
ples,” of the corpse of an ex-
communicated wretch which
the earth refused to receive.
It was buried time after time,
but the grave vomited it
forth again after each burial.
So with the corpses of certain
politicians. There is one on
the surface now which has
been buried many times. And
it stinks.
The Victorian Govern-
ment have refused the appli-
cation of Power, the bush-
ranger, to be released from
Pentridge. Power is now HO
years of age. This refusal
seems cruel, but we think it
is right. If he were released
hewould have to be supported
in some way, and he is now
too old to become a police-
man, and too respectable to
go Into Parliament. They
might, however, make him a
C.M.G. Just to discourage
others from becoming bush-
rangers.
An eminent doctor has
discovered that the common
houso-fly carries germs of
disease about with it. Of
courso. We have seen dozens
of them doing it. We have
seen them carrying one under
each arm, and a swagful on
their backs. They do it out
of innate devilry. A germ is
three-coruered with a flat
bottom, so that they can lay
it down anywhere when they
want to take a rest without
fear of its falling. It is the
existence of such marks of
design as this which fills the
mind of the philosopher with
respect for the mysteries of
nature. Kefer to Paley for
further particulars.
Australian larrikins are
accused by Forbes of “ swear-
ing before women." This vile
habit is but too significant of
the utter lowness of our
lower class. In the old days,
they used to punish blas-
phemy by cutting out the
blasphemer’s tongue. This is
the only cure we can think of
for this disease of cursing. It
would be practically, though
we are afraid not morally,
effectual. Other people would
not hear the curses, but the
blasphemers, when they had
their tongues cut out, would
for a certainty learn the dumb
alphabet, and curse on their
lingers. When people are des-
tined to go to eternal sulphur,
there is no use in trying to
bar the way.
The Duke of Buceleuch
is said to look with a very un-
favourable eye on the mar-
riage ot his son with “ the
cousin of Lady Clarke”—wo
mean Miss Ryan. This is just
the kind of hue old contempt
which the Highland cattle-
lifters used to have for the
plodding Lowlnndors who
reared the cattle. It is not to
be expected tbut the descend-
ant of a haughty line of
border-rraiders, who always
stole whatever sheep they
had, would conseut with good
grace to the mixture of the
blue blood of his family with
the blood of common people
who got their stock in the
tame colonial way—under a
system tempered by the ope-
ration of the Brands Act.
Debrett forbid!
The N.S.W. Premier, has lately taken a
great interest in the Melbo rne law courts. When
he is tired of this, he might stroll along and take a
little interest in his own vermin and typhoid-fever
breeding shanties at Sydney. In the Insolvency
Court, for instarce, one-halt of the clerks' lime is
taken up defending their lunches witli the ollice
furniture from the desperate attacks of centi-
pedes, daddy-longlegs, and bob-tailed scorpions ;
in the District Court, two of the deposition clerks
have had their toes bitten off by hideous-looking
reptiles peculiar to the ai le-diluvian period and to
the court aforesaid ; in the sacred precincts of the
Supreme Court its If, it is nothing unusual, even
during the most solemn occasions, for a bald-
headed, gravy-eyed old cockroach to look over the
top of his Honor's ink-pot, and ask if there s “ any
more news about the Fenians.” A sum of £160,000
was voted for the erection of suitable buildings
nearly as far buck as the Norman Conque t, and if
this vote is not utilised by the end o the present
year, it wili lapse, and ti e whole concern go
ll bung.” The terror of Hogging isn’t a circum-
stance compared with that of being tried iu a
Syduey iuw court.


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Angus Maolcay, of the T. and C., has lec-
tured at Balmain West Presbyterian Church on
“ Signs of the Times.” Surely not signs of the
Times. It must have been signs of the Town and
Kuntfiv Jernel The three Wagga papers are
quarrelling over the Municipal advertisements,
which are now given only to the new evening
paper, the Star—that journal having, according to
the Mayor, won a shake-in-the-hat for the privi-
lege. .. .'That fearful frost, the Mudoee Tele-
graph, has been absorbed by the Independent,
the onlv live paper in that district—The Sydney
D.T. tells of how a man killed a big snake, fastened
it behind his buggy, dragged it ten miles—and
found that the dead snake s mate had followed it
all the way. Ahem!.... W. Webb and Co. are evi-
dently going to run the Bowral Free Press and
Mittaoong, Buhrawano, and Kangaloon Ad-
vocate on peculiarly safe lines. They are going
to eschew sectarianism and personalities, to be
generous to those who may differ from its (that s
the Free Press’s) principles, and to make the
principal feature of tho paper “ Toleration in its
widest sense, irrespective of creed, country, or
colour.” In short, they firmly du believo in bom
this or thet, ez it may happen one way or t other
hendiest, is to ketch the people nappin —Another
good man has gone wrong in Ballarat. He was a
prominent light of the Kirk and a local preacher,
but for all that a sharp “corner” man. He in-
vested largely in South Dyke’s and Australasian
consols on ‘'time.” South Dykes went up, Aus-
tralasian consols went down; and so did he... ..A
wealthy house proprietor in N.Z., who will die
some day and bequeath all his money to charity,
lately seized on a ,goffin supplied by a kind under-
taker to a poverty-stricken tenant, and sent it to
an auction-room to bo sold for rent. Dives and
Lazarus Gundagai road contractors arc paving
ss, «d. per yard for stone-breaking. If these people
want to get stone-broken, they’d better defend a
libel action in the Supreme Court... .An Auckland
publican has done the Pacific slope with £lOOO be-
longing to his creditors, and a notorious barmaid,
lllaynev copper mine has been taken in hand
by a £40,000 company Some human remains
iiave been discovered at the head of tho Wook-
wina The legs were found on the stomach, and
on a troe 40 yards away the letters D.W.O. were
carved. The remains had the appearance of hav-
ing been buried about 14 years ago The editor
of the Carcoar Chronicle invites the man who
has been threatening to horsewhip him to call
round. “ Men of our own weight,’ he remarks,
“we negotiate with personally; but others we in-
troduce to Mr. Colt, an Englishman, who is a
trusted friend, and inj whose efficacy in settling
disputes we have tho utmost confidence, engen-
dered by an intimate acquaintance extending over
many years.” This is tho straight record of
Charley Crook“ Died on the 33nd instant, at his
son’s residence, Peisloy-strect, Orange, Charles
Crook, aged 76 years, leaving 4 sons, 4 daughtere,
34 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren. He
has lived in Orange about 54 years. He was the
occasion of 44 samples of colonial produce gracing
the Western district, and now, let him “listen to
the daisies grow” in peace, for lie did his level
best Wo want more Crooks, and less assisted im-
migration. .. .Up North, a receiver in insolvency,
in taking charge of a bankrupt estate, gave in-
structions that no credit was to be gi ven to any-
one. Next day the receiver sent up to the store
for one bag sugar and half-chest tea for himself,
but forgot to send up tho needful. In accordance
with orders, the bailiff didn’t allow the goods to
go whereupon the receiver promptly discharged
him Myers and “ one-armed ” Jenkins, the Wild
River editors, are still at it. So far, tho former has
“knocked spots” off the ex-Peruvian... The
selfishness, shortsightedness, and greed of some of
the institutions intended to be benefited by the
Costley bequest are likely to load to a terrible
muddle. A very hopeful beginning was made by
the private sale, without competition, of one of
the properties at a price, it is said, from £lOOO to
£l5OO below what it is believed it would have
fetched in the open market.... Six insolvents in
two weeks at Herberton, North Queensland....
Ameriean lever dump (or tip) car tried fairly suc-
cessfully In Redfern railway yard last Friday. It
will discharge a load of 30 tons of gravel or ballast
in about a couple of minutes. . Dr. T oul says that
the sores produced by Graham Mitchell are not
vaccine vesicles at all. G. M. says they are. Much
mutual waxination It consoquence. ..Mr. Topham,
of Topham, Angus, and Co., contractors for tho
Nepean waterworks, left the Douglas Railway
Station at 10 a.m. on Saturday, for No. 1 Section
Svdnev Water Supply, to pay his employes. When
near Nepean Towers, lie and his groom were stuck
ud bv two firmed men, tied to a tree, and robbed
of £1450 cash. He managed to free himself, and
then communicated with the police, who for once
bestirred themselves, and in tho course of the day
captured the bushrangers and their swag
Camden to Campbelltown tram concussed a horse
on Saturdfiy. Awk’ard for the prad I resh
water struck by boring rod at Mount Arrowsmith
(Butcher and Brodribb’s) Station, at 185 ft. depth. .
On Saturday night, burglars broke into Owens
lewellery shop, Rundle-street, Adelaide. In doing
so they rung up Owens, whose private house is
connected by electric apparatus with his shop.
Owens arose, got a policeman, and arrested the two
thieves whilst they were packing up their spoil. .
The site of an intended village near Junee will be
sold bv the Government shortly. Tho name of
the village is to be Loftus. We wonder what the
graveyard will be called.... Martin Check. Aithur
Noble, Mary Naylor, and Alice Naylor, saloon pas-
sengers of the Waitara, drowned in the collision
with the Huranui.. .They are going to start a
Gaelic Society in New Zealand, the chief object of
which is to be “ thepromotion of the study of the
Celtic language.” we suppose they are tired of
employing Maori interpreters... .The Australian,
a religious paper published in Queensland, winds up
an obnuary on an Irish journalist with this remark-
able sentiment—“ May he rest in peace. Only an
Irishman could say this of an Irishman Why, no
Irishman that is worthy the name would rest in
peace if the Pyramids were piled an top of him....
There are yet numbers of people in Wagga who
believe that the man now in'Dartmoor is the
real Sir Roger Tichborne. That is
we suppose, everybody else believes he isnfc....
Last week, at Unicorn Mine, Eaglehawk (Vic.),
Joseph Noble and Andrew Lawson were crushed
into an unrecognisable mass of flesh, owing to the
cage falling plumb 650 ft. upon them. Engine-
driver, in error, raised the cage on the surface, in-
stead of the one at the bottom of the shaft; rope
parted; “patent-safety” grippers failed to act.
Smash A society has been formed at Ballarat
called the Order of Crusaders, the object of which
is to watch the public-houses on Sundays, and
prosecute all publicans found infringing the law.
A crusade against publicans dealing on the cross
sounds somewhat paradoxical The authorities
of University College, London, have refused to
allow Mrs. Besantand one of Bradlaugh’s daughters
to attend the college lectures, lest the presence of
those ladies should frighten away other pupils.
Fancv “ Stinkomalee ” emulating the sectarian
exclusiveness of a Y.M.C.A... A late issue of a
contemporary religious paper contained an article
headed “ Tho Manufacture of Lies. We read the
article with much interest—which is not usual
with us, as we generally find religious papers
about as lively reading us the penitential psalms.
But the meanest scribe can’t help being interest-
ing when he writes about his own trade
It is said the picture by Nechter, presented to the
Auckland citizens by Sir G. Grey, has been in his
family upwards of 300 years.....At Wellington,
N.Z., a man tried to commit suicide and failed,
whereupon a couple of “mad doctors” testified
that he was perfectly sane; a day later, another
poor wretch tried and succeeded, and the coroner s
lurv found that he was insane. Of course, sitting
on a dead body is a sure way to find out the state
of mind of deceased.... The Chinkie has at last a
successful rival. And in a “blarsted Britisher,
too—that is to say a “ blarsted British’’sparrow.
This little winged imp has in fact been discovered
as subject to small-pox, and is said to be a splendid
progagator of this rejuvenating disease. When
the ancients swopped “five sparrows for a
farthing,” they evidently had no idea of
the precious jewel which this mite of fea-
thery contagion wore in its head Dwight
v. Commissioner of Railways. Action for
damages for injuries sustained by being run over
on the tramway. Verdict (last. Friday) £lsoo—To
avoid quarantining at Malta and Brindisi, home-
ward P. and O. steamers will go from Port Said
direct to Plymouth S.A. Government have ac-
cepted tender of Kapunda Marble Company to
erect new Parliament buildings At the En-
gineers’ Exhibition, “Dr.” Bottrell is an exhibitor!
The C.M.G. should exhibit his farthing—at the
underground engineers’ show Smyrna sailed
from Plymouth last Friday with 441 immigrants for
N.S. Wales. Undersigned have been appointed
re-appraisers of runs:—C. G. N. Lockhart, J. W.
Edmonds, W. P. Mylecliarane, S. W. Daniel, F. W,
Woodbine; A. Nixon, W. Lehane, H. Eagar, G.
Farquharson, and J. Mitchell—The dingo is a
terrible nuisance. United action is about the only
way to get rid of him. But then he likes rabbits—
and that to a certain extent blocks action against
him W. E. Harnett, late chief goods clerk at the
Gympie Railway-station, dismissed for having been
too good-natured—he having from a feeling of pity
failed to report a deficiency in the station-master s
money, though he had full opportunity to do so
when acting as station-master. .Yesterday (4th July)
was the American Anniversary of Independence.
By the way, Victoria commemorates its separation
from N.S. Wales. What lias it to commemorate 't
Before Victoria was out of its swaddling clothes it
asked its parent for separation, and got it. What
childishness to keep up this Separation day —Tho
South Head light has been seen at Rnzorback, six
miles beyond Picton, which is 53 miles from Sydney
Potatoes are selling at Louth (Darling River)
at £56 per ton ... A young man at Queanbeyan,
the other day, put the nipple of his loaded gun
near a lighted eandlo, and began to blow down tho
barrel. Then the barrel began to blow, too. It
blew his head off They are at last about to grow
sugar near Rockhampton. All the remaining
shares—viz., 1550—have been taken np by an Engiisn
capitalist, which means the introduction of £BOOO
foreign capital into the Company. The directors
have now £30,000 at their command Says a conn-
try paper with regard to an agricultural magazine
published in this city:—“An article on tropical
scenery will be perused with much gratification by
a large circle of readers.” We should smile! We
all like to know the features of a country we are
going to H.M.S. Swil'tsure recently tricked a
big storm by oiling the ocean on her weather side.
Diamonds found near Auburn Valley, Inverell
district. ..A Melbourne postal senior-stamper ar-
rested for annexing money letters—Fosbery is to
be recommended for a K.C.8.-ship—Kould-catch-
bushrangers. The foorce are prancing around as
proud as dogs with two tails a piece. The Herald’s
melted butter has done it all. Yet we rather think
it was those railway guards who deserve the kudo*.
.. .John Lin as, aged 55, resident of Richmond, Vic.
(not the N.S.W. John), fatally injured through
CAPTAIN ARMSTRONG, R.N., LATE RESIDENT MAGISTRATE LORD HOWE’S ISLAND.
getting out of a train on Saturday when it was in
motion New trial granted in Mason and El king-
ton v. Watson and Ewan.... Old mnrm Nicholls, of
Gawler, S.A., went to bed on Saturday, ’tis pre-
sumed, with her dudeen alight, for the next morn-
ing only her head and her foot, muoh charred,
were found in her flre-gutted bed-room. Moral:
don’t smoke in bed.... Akous Armitt with Loftua
Irving and Bob Hunter (Sir A. Palmer’s nephew)
left Thursday Island last week for Post Moresby, a
day in advance of Age Morrison Mr. Osborne’.i
persecutors are not only bigots but cowards, not
game to constitute themselves prosecutors. In-
stead of making him drink the cup of gruel to the
lees, they’re content to sneak out of the lob with
their tails between their legs—A bullock in
Tamworth weighed 13101 b. without the fat. A
sure proof he didn’t read the local papers—
They’re making a pow-wow in San Francisco be-
cause a white girl has married a Chinaman and
gone off with him to Celestia. And they talked of
shutting her up in a lunatic asylum. In Australia
she doesn’t think it worth while to marry him. She
simply—well, she doesn’t marry, anyhow The
Queanbeyan Railway League have decided to take
steps to prevent the Government from being hood-
winked Harry Knaves wont into the Tumber-
umba road. And poor Harry was mad. He loved
as only a miner of 75 can love. The pick of disap-
pointment had driven in the gad ot desperation,
and the windlass of hope could not wind him up.
So the police did The Temoha Hkkald has
ceased publication. Bailey shifts his plant to Gun-
dagai A most respectable resident of Benalla
has—no, not captured a bunyip, but identified the
lunatic Cressweli in the Parramatta Asylum as no
other than Arthur Orton, the Wapping butcher-
identified him by—no, not by a strawberry rottle
on his middle temple, but by a scar on his hand,
which he, the respectable resident of Benalla, when
a fellow bui cher’s apprentice with Orton, inflicted
on him axe-identally. Quite so!
* * *
New minor planet, of 11th magnitude, dis
covered May 13 by Borelly, ot Marseilles—Cholera
raging in Damietta and Mansurah. Australian
bound steamers will, while it lasts, not call at
Egyptian ports... .47 persons burned to deatk at
Dirvio, in Italy. Building in which puppet show
was being held caught fire; frantic rush ; fatal
crush Professor Tyndall asserts that if a player
on an accordeon strikes the right chord, he can
render the listener insane. We never knew till
now that an accordeon had only one chord Mr.
E. H. Sugden, B. A., in Light, declares that thought-
reading is practically universal—The new At-
lantic steamers about to be built by John Elder
for the Cunard Company are to be 500 feet long
with 60 feet beam, or some 30 feet shorter and 10
wider than the Soryia. They are to make about 20
miles an hour in fine weather. Their engine
power will be 16,000 h.p., driving two screws.....
30,000 deaths occur annually in India from snake-
bites. Since 1870, from 150,000 to 300,000 persons
have perished in this way. In 1880, 212,776 serpents
were destroyed; 11,663 rupees were paid to their
destroyers. In the north-west Provinces and in
Oude a body of Kaniars has been formed for the
special purpose of killing off venomous reptiles.
The men receive two rupees a month, and if a man
is so fortunate as to destroy more than twenty
snakes during that period he is paid the equivalent
of about 3d. per head for all in excess of that
number. In 1881 wild beasts caused the death of
2757 persons, as against 3810 in 1880. In 1881, 1557
tigers and 3397 leopards were killed. No wonder
Inglis left 30 sealers icebound off Labrador;
crews starving... Sir William M’Arthur presented
to the House of Commons, a petition containing
590,000 signatures. It measured 15 feet in circum-
ference, and took four men’s strength to roll it
into the lobby... .Tramcars, driven by compressed
air, have been running successfully at Nantes,
France, for four years, and are about to be adopted
py the London Street Tramways Co. The mechanism
is known as tho Mekarski air engine.
Capt. Armstrong, R.N.
The case of Capt. Armstrong, whose portrait
we now give, occupied the attention of a
select committee of the Legislative Assembly
shortly after the present Government took
office. Captain Armstrong was appointed
Resident Magistrate and Government Repre-
sentative on Lord Howe Island in 1878, and
continued to discharge the duties of that
post until 1882, when, in consequence of a
Setition from nine residents, the late Hon. J.
owie Wilson was sent as a special commis-
sioner to inquire into the complaints. Mr.
Wilson reported adversely to Captain Arm-
strong, and that officer was, in consequence,
removed from his post, deprived of his em-
ployment, and dismissed from the Commis-
sion of the Peace. Captain Armstrong came
to Sydney, and long vainly demanded
a fuller inquiry than had been held
in an irresponsible, and, he contended,
irregular manner on the Island. It
was not until the present Govern-
ment took office that he was granted
this reasonable request. A committee of
the Assembly was appointed to investigate
the whole matter; and the report of that
committee in the fullest sense exonerated
Captain Armstrong from every one of the
charges upon which he had been con-
demned, and showed that Mr. Wilson had
conducted his investigations with a strange
absence alike of discretion and common fair-
ness. The injury done by the long period of
apparent disgrace, and painful uncertainty
as to the future, to this offloer, can scarcely
be estimated. He had suffered in reputa-
tion, pocket, and feelings. The fact that he
had been dismissed the magistracy had been
commented on in the very London clubs
where his old comrades resorted. And
reparation lias yet to be made. And the
man who had thus suffered iB a retired com-
mander in the Royal Navy, a Knight of the
Legion of Honor, decorated with the
Order of the Medjidie, the Crimean and
Turkish medals and clasps. He was a
midshipman of H.M.S. Howe when she took
Queen Adelaide to Lisbon and Madeira in
1848, and was appointed aide-de-camp to
Her Majesty; saw much service in suppres-
sion of slavery on the west coast of Africa;
was in the Vesuvius during the Crimean
War; was present during the Crimean War
at the Sulina mouth of the Danube, and cap-
tured many vessels; was engaged at the
wreck of the Tiger, off Odessa, and on several
occasions on the Danubian and Circassian
coasts; signal-midshipman of the Vesuvius
when engaged at the battle of Alma; pre-
sene at the combined attacks on Sebastopol:
was in command of a small steamer at
Balaclava; served with the Naval Brigade
in the trenches before Sebastopol; was
one of the storming party on the Redan
on the 18th June, and present at the fall of
Sebastopol; was engaged in the Sea of Azoff
expedition, and had charge of boats at many
skirmishes at Mariapol and other ports; re-
ceived special promotion from Lord Lyons
for conspicuous zeal and gallantry, and was
wounded on three occasions.
Savanaka has been relegated to the stud.
The feeblest system may be fortified
against the effects or unwholesome air and rapid
changes of temperature, by the occasional use of
that celebrated tonic and invigorating cordial,
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
the LARGEST, MOST DIFFICULT, and MOST
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
His Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1600, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his Worship, John
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s PRINCES AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLI AM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1252,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.S.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Lithgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner d la Rime, for 60, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 SCHOOL CHI L-
Queen’s Statue Demonstration—under
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.m. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
ceiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ IIECEFIIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at Exhi-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYER.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner a la Rime at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem.
bers of the CBURCH OF ENGLAND SYNOD.
Dinner a la Rime to the INTERCOLONIAL RI FI E
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWKES-
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RAND-
WICK RACES, in Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new Banquet
Room.
Banquet at CAMDEN, Tramway Opening.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban-
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 600, same evenina
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
Dinner to the PRESBYTERIAN SYNOD.
Breakfast to the CONGREGATIONAL S\ r NOD.
ST. VINCENT’S Hospital Ball.
THE MERCANTILE Rowing Club Ball.
Numerous Banquets and Entertainments by HIS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &c.
Numerous Dinners d la Rime in the N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, while
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN-
MENT.
Together with a numerous lot of Private Dinners.
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Balls, Tea
Meetings Land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Fishing
Excursions, &o.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &t.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, &c.
43 ERSKINE STREET.
Sold by W. H. SOUL, and all Chemists.
EVERYX
MAN
SHOULD j
READ J
DR. JIAISION’S MW WORK.
A valuable book, describing how suffer-
ers froln Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders result-
ing from Excesses, Indiscretions or
Overwork, are permanently Cured
WITHOUT STOMACH MEDICATION.
Weak, nervous A impotent .lieu restored to
VIOOE, HEALTH AND MANHOOD.
Consultation and Book free. Address—
MAESXON REMEDY 00., 359 Oeorgo St.
SYDITEY.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 29th May, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute aud take delivery of the
undermentioned Mineral Leases within
thiry days from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
No. 1(506; W. H. Pinhey; Portion No. 241; County
of Hardinge, parish of Svvinton; 20 acres; Appli-
cation No. Tingha 649.
No. 1606; John May and another; Portion Nos.
153,154; County of Hardinge, parish of Darby; 40 1
acres; Application No Tingha 579.
T HY
THE
VICTORIA
Furniture Polish!
Sold by all Ironmongers.
AYALA'3 \
urnupuMiTv' v
'
VIHITU4SEL—
,,/^s-pB
\
A". |
AVAL
n
I
“ I’m out of form. Can’t keep up to -work."
“Oh, if that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk aff »
cricket in a jifly. Here, Waiter 1 large bottle of
Ayala’s White Label. This is a wine one can’t gef»
everywhere; and if it doesn’t set you up, Frank, J «l
give you a new hat.”
ROBERT PHILLIPS & CO., Agents.


WOMAN ITEMS.
The Mackay Merotjry tells a fairy tale of
a young woman in that locality who was met
travelling with three tortoiseshell cats in a peram-
bulator, and two big dogs behind, and who said she
walked overland in that dignified way from Mel-
bourne to Rockhampton, and thence up the coast
to Mackay. She was 23 years of age, travelled
from station to station, her dogs protected her, and
for a living she sold needles and thread! The MER-
CURY has been “ had ” The thinnest thread in the
whole affair, to us, is the yarn itself.
“ Madge ” had rather a bad shock the
other day. She tells her dear friend Amy about it
thus!—“l met a real live poet out at dinner the
other evening. As you cherish your illusions,
Amy dear, avoid such a catastrophe as that. I
have not yet recovered from the rough shock of
disenchantment. The creature greedily eyed tho
dishes, wouldn’t speak till he was fed, and then
talked only of cookery and recipes! His hair was
long, which gave him an unkempt look, suggestive
of the Zoological Gardens and their Inmates. He
apparently forgot, while imbibing his soup, that
he possessed a beard, and was almost totally obli-
vious of the lady he had taken down to dinner. I
don’t want to meet any more poets.
The Empress of Austria has just “sacked ”
her eoiffeuse for “ a breach of professional
honour.” Tho Empress has a magnificent head of
hair of unusual length and beauty. Tho artiste, in
combing it every morning, oontrived to abstract a
few of the precious filaments, and, in time, had
sufficient to form a tresse, which she sold for a big
sum to an English collector of curiosities, who had
it artistically mounted in a frame and exhibited.
This came to the ears of the Empress, who snorted.
But the dismissed professional lady only smiled,
and is about to start in business in New York, and
get the paragraph about her breach of faith
inserted In every newspaper she can get at; she
says it is a good “ad.” A hundred years ago she
wouid have been strangled in a dungeon. The
service Is going to the Devil; yes, your Majesty, se
it is.
Walter Larcher, of Emerald Hill, was a
young man who deemed it time to enter into the
holy state of matrimony. He married a widow in
September, 1879, and by 1881 he was so pleased with
the connubial state that, he left home and mar-
ried Miss Braithwaite, of Geelong. His name was
Henderson by this time. He was now launched on
the soa of matrimony, and at the end of another
twelve months of happiness he wedded Miss
Thornton, of that place. Having now three wives,
it was manifestly ridiculous that he should kili
himself with work, and, although an expert cook,
he decided to let the pots and pans go to rust, and
to get coppers by other means than rubbing them.
But life is made up of disappointments. The con-
stitution of sooiety is so rotten that a man Is denied
the privileges of a savage, and the law won’t allow
him to have three wives at one time. Agnes, and
Leah, and Martha were unknown to one another,
hut now they have mingled their tears in court.
Walter is committed for trial, and, in court, ac-
cepted his position quite cheerily, refusing to say
a word.
A Western Queensland paper says“ Bar-
maids at Hughenden oommand 455. per week.”
That’s nothing. In Sydney, most of them don’t
get much more than half forty-five shillings, but,
then, look at the “perks.” Why, one vivacious,
neat-figured, tastefully-dressed Hebe,who for some
months was the idol of the mashers in a
city caravanserai, had presented to her about
£lOO worth of jewellery monthly on an average.
In about half a year platonic admirers—thoy In-
cluded all sorts of people, even Ministers of the
Crown and (wo say this very sorrowfully indeed)
clergymen handed over to their divinity
£7OO or £BOO of more or less tasteful presents. We
have caught Bulletin bards writing verses to ber
eyebrows, and watched Cabinet Ministers and legal
luminaries become mere drivellers in her presence
—for what did she care about all their brains and
prestige while they didn’t wear a masher collar,
like the young Idiot to whom she talked for lialf-
an-hour at a stretch, totally oblivious the while
that the most promising young politician in Aus-
tralia, sir, was dying for one word, one glance, one
smilel But she has gone at last—to be married,
they say to the sen of a big Melbourne capitalist.
Talk about De StaSl, De Genlis, Cleopatra,
Josephine, and se on! The place of the literary
and diplomatic woman of yore is now occnpied by
the pretty barmaid who used to be the mainspring
of the present N.B.W. Government. But, then, she
was pretty.
• • •
Lords have rejected Deceased Wife’s
Sister Bill by 5 votes. Wales and Albany
voted with tne minority Chocolate sweet-
meats are taxed 3d. a pound since Monday.
Crushed again! Wo must get a new girl new
We learn with grief that Mrs. Mitchell, of Gawler,
is dead. She was out off in her early bloom at 100.
“Mask,” of Frogmore, in some ropy drivel
published in the Burrowa Times, refers to a
woman of his acquaintance, who we suspect has
jilted tho brute, as “a cloven-footed advocate of
shame,” “a liar blacker than a storm at night,”
and so on. We should like to hear what
are this cloven-footed liar’s ideas anent “ Masks.”
In some of the English counties they say
that children born at midnight have the power ef
seeing ghosts. We don’t know about this, but we
know that we have seen ghosts for several nights
back, and we have started to make notes on their
habits and customs. We have already noted that
they have a fondness for firewood and a passion for
poultry. We shall make some more notes when
we can manage to borrow a shot-gun.
This is the way in which the Tamworth
Independent man writes about advertised
whisky:—“ Good. We have sampled this whisky.
Better. It is soft as velvet to the palate, fragrant
as nectar, and richer than ambrosial wine.
Couches of pearl, and vestures of purple, are the
duo concomitants of this luxurious beverage, and
the imbiber sighs for the melodies and savours
of Orient, and the voluptuous quiescence of East-
ern harems, ‘ where never thread of silver strays
in tress of singing girl.’ ” Now this is what we call
a literary style. We like a man who can with
equal ease turn a metaphor or the handle of the
steam-power. If he can write in this fashion about
whisky, we should like to soo what he can say on
rum. And we should like him to wi'ite it in the
morning after sampling.
"THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
A well-known civil servant, on being asked
on Monday last if he had been to see “Jo,’’"replied,
“Oh, yes, I jenntelee Jo to that sort of thing."
Alice Dunning Lingard is playing Mrs. Blyth in
“ Tho Colonel, at the Imperial Theatre, London..
Hamilton Aidt? has written a play called “ A Great
Catch,” in which a rich colonist is the principal
figure. It is said to be a success—financially and
artistically. Which is just half as much again as a
rich colonist in person usually is in London
Signor Giorza will give a farewell concert in the
Protestant Hall, before leaving for Europe T.
W. Bush, a theatrical agont, sai to be the husband
of Madame Cora, the illusionist, but denied, was
found dead in his bed at the Governor Browne
Hotel, Auckland. N.Z. He was of intemperate
habits. A verdiot of death by npoploxy was re-
turned— A little lady attnohed to tho leg-itimate
drama, in a certain big city, was tho decoy duck
whoso fascinations started a theatrical manager on
his road to fortune, and got for him £4OOO English
money—At Adelaide lately, a waiter belonging to
the club went while lecovering from sickness to
seo “The Strategist.” He laughed so much thutin
his weakly state a blood-vessel was broken. Dead..
Tommy Hudson, of Surprise Party renown, dating
from s.s. Sclndk, in tho Persian Gulf, on 31st May,
writes us that, having travelled the whole of India
as far os Afghanistan, and done splendid business,
he intended leaving Bombay for Australia on 15th
June; his programme being a season in Western
Australia, Adelaide to follow. Wash. Norton was
doing well in the hills; Wilson’s circus, after doing
a wonderful eight weeks in Bombay, had gone to
~ ’ a; Wilson himself had startod tor England to
Sew talent. Dave Carson was advertising
e Melville to epen at the Corinthian, Calcutta,
in November. Davis and Frost were prospering
with the Loftus Tronpe in Rangoon, British Bur-
mah. They intended opening in Bombay Nov. 17,
with “lolanthe.” Mr. Hudson believed it had
been decided to epen the Calcutta (which city
Pomeroy visits shortly) Exhibition every evening.
If so, the outlook for showmen would be bad.
The Georgia Minstrels, from Australia, wore ad-
vert! ed in April te appear in Calcutta In July.
Tommy adds:—“Tho weather is something fearful
now. I don’t know what It will be in July, in tho
midst of the raiHS. I should think It would bo im-
possible to perform.”
* * *
Sims Reeves estimates that irritation in
the throat has cost him £70,000 in forfeited en-
gagements during thirty years. . The funeral of
Edward Saker. of the Liverpool Alexandra Theatre,
was attended by not few or than 10,000 persons ...
Mme. Scalchi, of the Patti troupe, sings three
times a woek, and gots £5OO per month. She began
life as a scrubber In the Covent Garden Theatre.
Her voloe, therefore, should bo soap-rano, but It
isn’t—A man in England was locked up for hiss-
ing a performanoe. The Judge asked if people
who had applauded were locked up. On being
answered in the negative, the judgo dismissed the
prisoner, saying tho right to applaud implied the
right to hiss .. The suit for divorce brought l>y.
Mrs. Bouclcaqlt against Dion has been withdrawn
FEMININE EVOLUTION.
....In Berrons’ Worcester Journal of about
one hundred years ago appears a notice that “the
management ef Drury Lane Theatre were so
pleased with Mrs. Siddons’ services, that they had
given her a benefit, by which she realised £83(), and
increased her salary from £l2 to £2O per week. ’
From a Lenden theatrical paper: “ Wanted useful
people for the ghost to work In 0ven.”.... A writer
In the Quarterly Review warmly satirises
Irving for throwing what he terms “the fierce,
ghastly iivor of the limelight ” upon the parting
earesses of Romeo and Juliet. This gentleman’s
idea would seem to be that Irving and Ellen Terry
should embrace In the dark... .Luscombe Searell
hasn’t been finally extinguished by the unkind re-
ception accorded his “Wreck of the Pinafore” in
London. Ho has composed a new comic opera
entitled “Estrella,” whioh is (so he says) to be pro-
duced by HellingBhead at Manchester shortly.
The argument that a man can do as much
in eight hours as he can in ten, will surely cut both
ways. If he can pile into eight hours as much
labour as he can get into ten, we reckon he could
pack as much pleasure into the same. We should
like to utilise the O’Sullivan for experimentalising
on this question.
A Melbourne evening paper came out the
other day with the statement that Lady Augustus
Loftus was the original Lady Henry in Sardou’s
“ Diplomacy,” and that her Ladyship, on visiting
the Melbourne Bijou the other evening, was much
pleased at so clever a representation by Miss Cora
GWynne of her worthy self, ltomantic, wasn’t it?
But, then, Lady Henry’s husband is represented in
the play as a slightly giddy young person. We'd
almost swear Augustus was never giddy: wo be-
lieve, in fact, he was never young.
A short time since, a man started as a
eoffin-makor in Forbes. Ho got as far as exhibit-
ing a sample coffin lid in his window. You know
the kind of thing: varnished board, with a pewter
breastplate on it, supported by two tin angels that
just look as if they had been out bathing and lost
their clothes. But no corpse oame. The death-
rate is low in Forbes. This is because the peoplo
up there are so ugly that death is afraid to oall
round lor them oxoopt at night, when he cun’t sco
their faces. So the coffin-maker left. And a
policeman left with him. He was wanted in an-
other district for something or other. It was evi-
dent he was not wanted in Forbes.
One Cook is carrying on a roaring trade in
Melbourne and suburbs as an informer on ‘‘short ”
bread sellers, etc. The other day he got a score of
them lined at the Hotham Police Court for selling
bread without weighing it. It was elicited from
Cook, during the trial of these cases, that to carry
on his “business’’properly ho employed one man
at £2 per week, and a boy at 10s. per week with
board and lodging, their duty being to make the
purchases while their employer watched outside.
Cook also said that he had his summonses printed
a thousand at a time, and did not deny that he
made from £6OO to £7OO per annum from his little
game. Cook is very cool and self-possessed while
giving evidence, and the Parthian glances shot at
him by his victims seem more to amuse than annoy
him. He entered the court with a lurge sack con-
taining his "purchases.” which he placed very
methodically on the table, each loaf being marked
with tho name of thesoller and other hieroglyphics
representing facts necessary for a conviction. The
bakers say: Heaven sends breud, and the Dev i
sends Cooks.
The late Mrs. Pearson, postmistress at
Camden, was not tho least eccentric or interesting
Civil Servant that New South Wales has known.
Her name will be fresh in the memory of Camden-
ites, even when some of the Addisonian articles
which Mr. J. B. Martin has contributed to the
Camden Times are forgotten. Mrs. Pearson made
no distinction between persons, whether thoy were
rich or poor, magistrates or policemen, chimney-
sweeps or C.M.G’s., friends or foes. Her “ Well,
what do you want?” always given in a loud shrill
tenor, greeted aliko the bellman or tho local
parson, as he poked his head In the office window
to inquire for his mall. If the parson and the bell-
man happened to call and Inquire for their mail at
the same time, she was so methodical that she
would “servo them alnhabetically.” as she phrased
it, and bellman Yooley would get his mail before
parson Zooley. This was what she called “ carrying
out tho postal regulations to the letter.” To prove
that she was strict, here is one out of about 50 stories
told of her. A gentleman once rode from Vermont
-to-Camden to get an important letter, which he
knew was in the office for him. He reached the
office at 20 minutes to 6 o'clock, and, being an old
and intimate friend of Mrs. Pearson, began a bit
of friendly gossip with her. Thoy laughed and
chatted away (for when Mrs. Pearson did unbend,
which was about once in every seven years, she
was quite fascinating) until the office clock struck
six, which reminded the gentleman of what ho had
come for, and he smilingly said “ Oh, by the bye,
Mrs. Pearson, there is a letter here for me, I be-
lieve; will you be kind enough to hand it te nje ?’’
“Oh yes,” she replied with a smile which was in
reality a grin that Grimaldi might have envied—
“ Oh, yes; Mr. M., there is a letter here for you, but
you must call for It during office hours. It Is new
past six o’cloek. Good evening.” And down went
the office window with a bang.
Osman Day, orator, in November, ’Bl,
married Emily Harriet Balmcr. Somo time subse-
quently a woman announced herdelf to Mrs. Day
(nde Balmer) as the original and duly qualified Mrs.
Day. Thereupon, Balmer pire made inquiries,
with tho result that the father ef the original Mrs.
Day forwarded to fydney a copy of the certificate
of marriage between Osman Day and Eliza Harri-
son. Confronted with this, Osman alleged that the
woman who had said she was the original Mrs.
Day was, in truth, the wife of ene Barlow, who,
for something he had dene, had been obliged to
quit England, and that he had simply brought hor
out as his wife to oblige Bariow! And to this story
tho woman who had called herself the bond fide
Mrs. Day also stuck, with variations. Result—
Osman committed for bigamy.
Some months ago the Anglican Bishop of
Ballarat, speaking mendicantly at a religious meet-
ing held in the Mansion House, London, said that
so great was the ignor.mce in his diocese, that a
sect called “Sounders” swarmed the bush, who
held that the way to get to Heaven was to mako a
peculiar sound with the voice, this grotesque be-
lief being based on a text of Scripture, “ Blessed
are the people who know the joyful sound.” The
people of Hamilton (Vic.) who dwell within tho
boundaries of his See want to know who the deuce
are these “ Sounders,” and their Spectator says
on their behalf“ We have never heard of them;
but so long as they help to make the Right Rev.
Ballarat’s ‘soundings’ into British pockets in aid
of the poor benighted peopie of Ballarat and the
Western District successful, we supp'ose that is all
His Lordship cares about. ’ In connection with
this, there’s rather a good story to tell. When the
yarn as told by the Bishop reached Australia, an
Anglican parson wrote to the Australian
Churchman to seek information about these
“Sounders.” His letter being published in that
journal, elicited a reply from another contributor
to the effect that the said parson himself was the
founder of the stentorophonio sect, and that the
Bishop had sarcastically alluded to him whon he
mentioned the matter in England. If this bo so, j
as we have good reason to Dolieve it was, that 1
Bishop Stanton designedly sneered at one who had
held his license, all we can say is, tantamc animis
episcopal (bus ireq >
Mrs. Hampson, the Evangelical Lulu from
Paradise Gardens, who is now creating a huge
sensation in the South, makes “ Inquiry Meetings ”
■ a feature of her mission. They oome off after
the regular services. Anxious ones are Invited to
stand up. Then, the general audience having
departed, these anxious ones are wrought by the
mission-workers, who are faithful souls that have
been recomino ided by Evangelical clergymen to
Mrs. Hampson and her engineer, the Rev. A. J.
Clarke, the Baptist minister of West Melbourne.
By means of a careful ticket system it has been
calculated that a lvrge number of non-churchgoers
attend these services. The workers tackle the
anxious lingerer in this wise: “Do you know
Jesus for your Saviour’/’ or, “Are you saved/”
The usual reply is: “I hope so.” to which the
worker responds: “Hoping wont do; you must
know it.” And then the workers, having set the
sponge, knead in the impression. The Hampson
missioners don’t go in for noise; they eschew the
howling “ halleluiah ” business of tho Harray, and
possibly It’s this that fetches a moresubdued'lot of
anxious ones. The larrikin element it doesn’t
attract. Mrs. Hampson goes around whilo tho
workers are at work, and has a little prayer hero,
or chops a little theology thore, and, whatever
may bo the souroe of her power, gets at hundreds,
as is clear from the effect she produces—men and
women broken down and in tears all about the
“ Inquiry Room.” It’s alleged that, the other day,
she got at a veteran Melbourne editor of secular
journalism, and, such was her effect on him,
that he posted himself in the corridor of
tho Inquiry Room, and kept exclaiming loudly,
“This is Real Salvation,” "Oh, it’s glorious,”
“I cannot tear myself away,” and so forth
(here he looked very hard at the lady and winked.)
Here are samples of the "requests for prayer”
and “ prayers offered” at hor services:—" Pray for
one who was at the point of deciding yesterday,
but was persuaded to turn back.” “ Will God’s
children plead for a young lady convicted last
night.” “Tho writer wants that new birth he has
heard. He wants to know it in truth.” “A sor-
rowing mother asks prayer for her iehildron, espe-
cially her son.” “A wife who has prayed for up-
wards of 13 years for hor husband asks that ho may
be saved to-night.” “We pray, O God, for a bless-
ing on those two young women who could not get
into tho meeting last evening. Is it not a reproach
to Your People who have beencrowding round the
Fountain, and keeping away those who never
drank.” Itov. A. J. Clark prayed: “Lord, we ask
Thee to save u young sister who has gone from the
inquiry room to the ball room, headlong again
into the world! Oh, my God, take the worldiiness
out of Thy church in this city! (Murmurs of
Amen). Save tho gambling ministers 1 (Amen!)
Save those who get up the gambling and the
ralfiing.” (Amen, Amen.) Mrs. Hampson prayed:
“ We pray that tho literary men, the men who write
the articles in tho newspapers, who wield the pen
may do so in Thy eauso. We thank Thee
that some are impressed. Impress all (Amen)-
and may it appear in practice.” (Amen)!
Conversionary revivals, like murders, suicides,
divorces, and so on, move in cycles. A whole
people will exhibit the appearance of deep reli-
gious enthusiasm from lime to time, just as the
average of tho Lunatic asylums will periodically
go up. Whilo hundreds of tho lower classes in
Melbourne are enlisting under tho banner of the
Salvation Ilariny, and tho Press have suddenly
found attraction in pulpit discourses, giving to the
Sublie whole columns of bunkum every Monday,
trs. Hampson is filling the Town Hall twice a day,
and gradually lowering the returns of tho other
theatricals. Outside the Town Hall is Mrs. Hamp-
son’s enormous placard headed “ Jesus Only!”
Now, though Melbourne is about the last place
where you’d expect to And Salvation, vet hundreds
declare that they have found it and arc happy.
Mrs. Hampson is an eloquent woman, who preacues
palatable Christianity. That’s what she is. And
she’s raking in the coin. When she has thoroughly
scooped the pools, she’ll be off to fresh woods and
pastures new, where there's more sin, and probably
more money.
The Forbes bench the other day granted
license renewals to 28 pubs. And yet they wail at
tho dry state of the country out there.
On Monday week, at Bourke, Frank Robert-
son, of Jandra Station, defeated John Aplitt in
150 yards spin, for £lOO aside. Robertson, who not
long* since leffc the Scotch College, Melbourne,
jumped away with the lead, and at 100 yards had
slightly over a yard to the good. In the last 50
Aplitt closed up, but the young one responded
gamely, and won a grand race by about 2 feet in
seconds. At least, that’s what they say ; we
don t believe it.
Burns got pretty well the hang of lovely
woman when he said “ she’d marry auld Nick if
he’d keep her aye brew.” In Tasmania, a China-
man induced a girl to leave her homo and live with
him, without any fettering legalities. Next a
white man wooed and won the maiden, and was
duly married in church. But John had only to
appear again on the scene, armed with a few pre-
sents, when the fickle one came straight back to
him. And yet some people despise a Chinaman 1
Whatever their secret is, Chinamen can notoriously
buy pretty girls any moment they produce the
price.
Challemel-Lacour is sick—in anticipation of that
humble pie France must eat re Tonquln Bill
introduced by the British Cabinet for a Scottish
Local Government Board Cobdeu Club dinner
came off in London on Saturday. Much gush
about Imperial confederation England’s naval
strength 15 first-class (9-in. armour) ships ; 10
second-class (8-in. armour) ships; 12 third-class
(44 to 6 in. armour) ships ; and 8 coast defence ves-
sels. Total tonnage, 367,000. France’s naval
strength 16 flrst-oiass (9-in. armour) ships ; 13
second-class (8-in. armour) ships ; 5 third-class (44 to
6 in. armour) ships ; and 9 coast defence vessels.
Total tonnage, 219,000. ..Roman Catholic Albanians
Invite Austrian annexation Latest cablegrams
say that the Malagasy Hovas persist in rejecting
French Hovatures....Randolph Churchill has sup-
plied the grand old man with the evidence ho has
obtained of the Khedive’s alleged complicity with
tho Alexandrian massacres.. .The “ Irisn Brothers”
of Now York have sentenced Chief Justice Cole-
ridge to death for having condemned tho dynaml-
tards. So, at least, says Garranny’s own London
correspondent, whom we take to be a gullible sort
of cuss... Malagasies have expelled the French
Inhabitants from Antaranarlvo Henri Cinq,
alias Due do Bordeaux, alias Comte de Chambord,
gradually sinking. All up with the white fiag. No
His Honor Judge Harding, Acting Chief
Justice of Queensland.
The Acting Chief Justice of Queensland,
during the absence on leave of Sir Charles
Lilley, is one of the few Australian Judges
who does net ewe his seat en the Bench to
prominence in party politics. Mr. Harding
has never been amembei of Parliament, and
was elevated to the Bench as a recognition
of his legal attainments. As a barrister, Mr.
Harding was less remarkable for forensic art
than for erudition. His knowledge of the
law placed him at the head of his profession
in Queensland even before the outside public
were aware of his exislence. His opinion
was sought in hosts of cases in which he
never held a brief to appear; and when he
was appointed a Queen’s Counsel, his name
had been little known to the public. Lat-
terly—perhaps in view of the possibilities
which began to open before him—Mr. Har-
ding’s appearances in Court became more
frequent; and when he was appointed to fill
the place of the late Judge Lutwyehe, his
elevation occasioned no surprise. Mr. Har-
ding i*, as will be perceived on regarding
eur portrait—whieh is from a capital photo-
graph by Lemer, of Brisbane—in the prime
of life. He is an enthusiast in, and a great
stickler fer, the rights of his profession. He
can scarcely be called a popular Judge; but
he is what is better, a respected man.-
Anagrams by Alderman . John
Davies: “ I saved John.” John Harris: “ I (r) rash
John.”
Is this a misquotation: “And I said in
mine haste that aldermen were liars.”
“ Davies versus Harris ”
Claim, £20,000 = 19,200,000 farthings
Verdict.. .. 00,000,001 „
Difference .. 19,199,999 „


THE NEWSLETTER.
A Maryborough (Q.) publican s spouse
sloped with—well, a “gay Lothario, the other
day, taking with her a considerable amount of
loose cash. The bereaved husband lost no time in
putting the police on the track of the guilty pan,
and they were arrested in Brisbane, where they
arrived by the Derwent.
Mr. Cazaly, the secretary of the Ballarat
Benevolent Asylum, recently discovered a contri-
bution-box for that charitable institution left
eighteen years ago at the London Chartered Bank,
Ballarat East. On counting the hoardings of eigh-
teen years, they amounted to 9s. 6d. in coppers
including a dozen “tokens” and two George 111.
pennies.
Number of insane persons to N.S.W.
population at close of 'S3 was one lin 854.1 J 1 *® I** 1 ®"
portion is increasing very slowly- 303 persons
were discharged cured from N.S.W. asylums during
’B3 ; 141 lunatic patients died during 8— Total
expenditure on care of the insano during 83 was
£83,386 ; total receipts of department, In-
creased cost of department attributed to greatly
increased rates of provisions.
The wonderful celerity with which the
N.S.W. Exhibition was run up in the Domainhas
been outdone by the Amsterdam show. The Home
News savs;— 1 * (Considering the fact, that the snow
was on the ground, which is now covered by the
Exhibition buildings, only three weeks beto™ the
opening day. May 1, the progress may be regarded
as marvellous." But N.S.W. is still ahead in the
matter of clearing its Exhibition off quickest.
Hunt versus Syme (Melbourne Age), dam-
ages one farthing, Justice Holroyd declining to
certify for costs. Anderson versus Fairfax (Sydney
Herald), damages £430- In , for l n ®T
Journalistic comments had deprived plaintiff or a
substantial position ; in tho latter, they simply^de-
prived plaintiff of what had never belonged to
him. Fact is, Just as’t is said, the Bench of Vic-
toria is as superior to tiiat of New South W ales as
its Bar is interior.
Mr Alley, the Police Magistrate, had been
to hear Dr. Simms, at the Melbourne Athenaeum,
when the great man on bumps told his audience
that Australians are the greatest meat-eaters in
the world. The following morning, Mr. Alley
presided at the Emerald Hill Felice Court,
and gave evidence that he lmd wel digested the
knowledge he had acquired the previous evening.
A working man made his appearance in answer to
a fraud summons for not paying a butcher s bill,
and Mr. Alley told him that the working men in
this “Happy‘Land ” were not sntistb d unless they
had meat three times a day. Borne even indulged
in luim and eggs for breakfast. Porridge was quite
enough to form sinew and muscle.
Marv Paine, of Parramatta, has been sent
to gaol for six weeks for fruit-stealing. She has
been suspected of being an orchard robber for the
past ten years. It is a clear case of kleptomania,
and it is ‘irresistible. She has no need to steal, and
yet will think nothing of doing a twenty-mile
tramp to rob an orchard. And she has lately put
up her children to steal fruit for her. Of coupe,
six weeks in gaol will not cure her, and she will be
out again in the orange season for a bit of fresh
fruit. It seems a pity that the unfortunate woman
should have to herd with criminals. Possibly, if
she were compelled to eat all the fruit she stole, it
might open her eyes. The last haul would have
been a tidy meal. It was four dozen lemons.
In the very far North, a shocking state of
affairs exists with regard to licensing arrange-
ments. Licenses are issued without the least dis-
cussion to men who are living in open adultery
with notorious women; and women who are living
in the same manner with eminent horse-thieves
and distinguished card-sharpers are also allowed
licenses. The so-called “hotels” are the resort of
the most abandoned characters, who, like the pub-
licans themselves, would be locked up in Brisbane,
bad though that city be. The worst part of the
whole business is that the licensing bench consists
of the local editor, who has the bad taste to sit
during the hearing of an application concerning
which he gets an advertisement from the publican.
The other day, Mr. R. W. Skinner, book-
seller was lined £5 at Sydney Police Court for selling
“ Fruits of Philosophy,” the pamphlet out oi
which arose the celebrated prosecution of Mr.
Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant, and which, in the
opinion of the Bench, was an “ improper
bBok Mr. Skinner, who, in Court, did not appear t
willing to enter into any argument as to the chax
aeter of the publication in question, lias, since the
conviction, applied to the N.S.W. Liberal Associa-
tion for the funds necessary to enable him to
appeal, and received the following rather neat
letter from Mr. Charles Bright:-
tion of N.S.W., Sydney, June 37, 1883. Mr. it. w.
Skinner. Dear Sir, Your application to the above
Association to support you in an appeal to the
higher courts in respect to the penalty inflicted oil
you at the Police Court for selling a pamphlet en-
titled ‘Fruits of Philosophy,’ was considered by
the Committee last evening, and I am instructed
to inform you that while individua members of
the Association will, doubtless, bo willing to con-
tribute any defence fund which may be inaugu-
rated on vrur behalf, the Committee, as a body,
have resol*, cd not to take any action in the matter.
They have arrived at this conclusion mainly be-
cause you declared to the magistrates that you had
ceased selling the pamphlets since the visit of the
police to your shop, and hence, evidently, are not
acting on T any principle calculated to enlist the
sympathy of this Association.-Yours lespecttully,
Charles Bright, Hon. Sec.
At Port Douglas, (N.Q.), a man named
Rowe recently stole a couple of horses from Mr.
Maurice Fox. Fox informed the police of the
theft, but they had no available horses to follow
with, so he obtained a black-boy from Mr. Carr and
started in pursuit. After no less than twelvedays
_u UOft Uo of lonurth came up to his mao in the
vicinity of California Creek, at the head of the Tate
and U Herbert Rivers. It was dusk when they
arrived at the place where they supposed he was
camped, and hobbling their horses a quarter of a
mile awav Mr. Fox went one direction, and the
black-boy^ another. After a few minutes’search
Mr Fox came on Rowe, and walking up to him
arrested him. Rowe was dumb-foundea, but as
soon os Mr. Fox went to put the handcuffs on, he
made a fierce resistance, but was at length secured.
The Journey home took five days. Rowe was very
quiet- and at night slept with one wrist hand-
cuffod to Mr. Fox’s wrist.
The French Mediterranean squadron con-
sists of eight ironclads and three cruisers, which
have cost 137 million francs. The Colbert ’ ’ridont
Redoubtable, each cost 18 millions; the Priedland,
Marengo, Ocean, 15 millions each; the Heroine,
Revanche, 10 millions each; the Duguuy-Trouin,
cruiser, 5 millions: the Desaix, 1 million, the
Hirondelle, 1 million. The cost of materials for
hull construction of these vessels amounte to «
millions; their construction occupied 8 million
working days, for which the wages paid out came
to 21 millions. The launching cost one million;
their steam-engines, 11 millions; their anchors, |
200OOOfr • rigging, 1 million; sails, 1 million; flags
SdXnals,«JO,OOOfr. ; placing all the fitting out!
million; powder and projectiles, 23 millions. Be-
sides the above, each vessel is provided with three
months’ stores, which represent a value of about,2
millions; the value of the coal is about half a
million. The pay of the officers and crews amount
to 30,000 fr. per pay.
At Boorook, Teutertteld, on Saturday last,
Noud easily defeated Uonoghue in 150 yards race
for £50 aside.
Bishops and Sydney Synod Committee, to
meet early in July: business (after opening
prayers) to mark time, and report no progress.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Ch airman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser mid Mining Title®
Acent • also, Free Selectors and General Land
Airent ’Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and
nnon Every class of Land and Mining Business
iii the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity—A pvt.
VANITY FAIR.
Half the poverty in the world would dis-
appear if no man were allowed to marry who cannot
support a wife. Then if women who cannot
support a man were barred from matrimony, the
other half would vanish A scientist claims to
have discovered a means of photographing pictures
on the skin of the body, as indelibly as it tattooed
... Prince George, as midshipman, draws a salary
of £l3 18s 9d per annum.... Madge says, in one ot
her latest goss'ps: “I notice that all the best modi .Wes
in London object to their customers wearing the
crinolotte, and introduce steels into their skirts in
only the most modified form. 1 Some ladies insist
on a huge bunch at the back,’ one of thorn said to
me, ‘but I try to tone it down as much as possible.
lnnocent mistakes are occasionally none the
jess awkward. For instance, the family name of
the Earl of Dartmouth is Legge, and at a dinner
party once the Countess and two of her daughters
were announced by the over-precise butler as The
Countess of Dartmouth, and the Ladies Legges.
The effect on the highly-civilised society present
was mixed Freaks may come, and tollies may
go, but one article of female attire goes on for
ever. The corset, whose origin is indiscernible
through the fogs of tint'quity, still finds uniform
favour, in spite of masculine ridicule and feminine
caprice, to one of which forces sooner or later
every other badge of Fashion succumbs. Hoops
enjoy only a fluctuating popularity, and heels are
none too safe. The fushion in foreheads changes
from low to high, and hack again to low. To-day
a woman affects the sinuous and serpentine In out-
line, to-morrow she cultivates the fluffy and bouf-
fant. The tvaist line shifts about—may lie almost
anywhere between bust and hips; but there is no
variableness nor shadow of turning in the regu-
laiity with which the woman of to-day buys tier
corsets Truth announces an island kingdom
for sale in the Mediterranean. A syndicate should
purchase it and cut it up into blocks, each confer-
ring on its purchaser the rank of His Hoys' Htgli-
ncss, or His Koval “Block-head .... The'Royal
Amateur Orchestral Society is bossed by Wales.
His brother, the Duke of Edinburgh, plays among
the first violins of the orchestra, while the visito.s
smoke their cigars and drink their whisky—Kx-
A great philanthropist was once travelling abroad for the good o his health, when he
chanced upon a poor beast grievously afflicted by fleas.
Remembering some insect powder which he happened to have in his bag, he boldly
approached, and offered to sell a tin of it to the unfortunate brute.
Unhappily for the philanthropist, the animal preferred him to his wares.
M ORAL: What concerns thee not, meddle not with.'
quisite, lunching at a Dunedin hotel one day after
» hi*- hanauet: — I suppose, Mr. Nixon, you are
giving us some of the leavings frmn last nights
fged' resurrection, you know. You are ri f?ht,
sir; but if you had been at that dinner, there would
have been no leavings and no resurrection
.. .The wife of a well-known
Hobart solicitor, who has been carrying on with a
S,u 8 “. say,
waiter (tips him a shilling), whichisthebest table to
goto ehP Waiter (in a hoarse whisper). You go
to b sir a-ethevery tiling ’ot there.'’.... An article
auneareifthe other day iii a leading London paper
concerning the wealth of the Parisian
A immns it the other day transpired in Court that
ato fmll one, whose address was formerly
Hokitika, had at her credit in the bank £16,000....
You will find, my dear boy, that the dearly-prized
Which yrith raptures you snatched from the half-
Is sweeteiMb y^far* I than the legalised kisses
Y r ou the Biune £*ri when you ve made her a
On the 28th the Dukedom of Nor-
folk completed its fourth century. This reminds
os that a rece tly-discovered name for the
lectidarias of naturalists (aifos the homely bug of
the lodging house keeper) is Norfolk Howara....
At a reception given in Paris by the managerof
the SocitW Edison each lady was presented with a
bouquet in the middle of which shoiie an electuc
star fed by a Trouve- battery.... The ' llB ‘ n ' u^® r
of a new illustrated magazine called Mlkry Eng
land, which appeared in April, contained an etch
ing of Lord Heaconstleld, who is shown in the act
o. addressing to the House of Commons Ms pr
fession of journalistic faith. Ana I, too, am a
gentleman of the Press. • - T y H °w .nS! Alfred
sick room according to Dr. Bvrne <° f p rmce. f l , »
Hospital)Some came “ to cheer the patient up,
noisy and blustering; while others would adopt the
opposite planfwniuu wM just as bad-they wouW
come into the room with a sombre, solemnface, as
if thev were going to a funeral, and speak in a
whispe y r. Now, whispering was the worst thing
thev could do iia a patient s room, A patient al-
ways strained bis ears to catch what was said, and
the exertion y.ras injurious. Anothei thing was
that they should not go Into'the room on «ptoe
which only annoyed the patient. They sn uia
walk In quietly and firmly, and in talkmg aaopi
the medlum between too loud and
whisnerinir ..In the CHICAGO SANITARY -NEWS
Dr .1 K *Kel ogg recommends tobacco to kill
vermin of all kinds, except* may
breeds in the bar-rooms andbUilard haUs and may
oft-pn ha scon adhering to •
Hafdemln in the Popular Science Monthly,
states that a mulatto recently died tha^of
welched (18-K oz.. or five ounces more than tnat or
Cuvier whose has hitherto been considered the
heaviest on record. He was illiterate and notvery
i n tel li cent .. .Sauce for the Goose .-Young wire .
“ Whrfdo you think I met in town r t a o ." da tVuabm d •
some one we have not seen lory cars Husband .
“No idea m v love. Who was it? Y - ”• •
Jolly boy—looking so well. too. We wentand had
W d - rl “wKat’s what you do,' Isn’t it, when you
meet • • Ascertain Victorian daily^^our-
nal is now run with three reportere Tlm balance
of the staff is composed of apprentices - hoys
who on leaving school at the age of m, nave
literarv aspirations. These ambitious youths art
indentured for four years to learn the art
whn.h ia tnnurht very much on Mr. oqueers
14aft“e » »■"«?> •<
philosophy A new trimming for hall dresses
consists of half-baskets made of moss and full of
dowels sewn on the skirt. . The dainty danseuse,
Kuto Vftuffhan, has always been noted for the
described as surpassing all thers. In style nex
Se m she floated on the stage, and to make one
wonder how any mortal could ever get either into
wonder now y beauties are launched on
Kivd their entertainments. Tt savt* immense
trmible A blush is modesty’s head-light . but a
trains aro run without head-lignts
?n olden times a real bridle was kept in country
! arishcs! to be applied to termagent wives’tongues
... .Leblanc’s new Natiowl. was publlcly
dnnoed in the presence of a large invited audience,
»t St James’s Hall A reaction in dancing is ex-
pected towards the slow and stately ttgu res of
The newest case of smuggling,in that
where a lady was caught carrying 9® the sttianilei:a
net nuff dog of such super-canine stolidity ot ap
ulamnce Mto excite notice. The pug was a
dummy, and he was full of costly lace .And the
acme of folly has been reached by a rich female in
London, whoso pet poodle walks the ®5 re ® t
heels with a necklace of precious stone#
are now made with patterns of fruit, Prados
cherries, clusters of grapes, on them. At loast, ao
it is said It was intended to give Oscar wiiae
a grand reception on his return on
America, and some of a crowd h^/ a ‘ h ® r “ d °“
the quay. But, just as he . lan ded, there was a do^
Uirht A muff is a thing that holds a gin s
lmnds without, squeezing them A lady
KSK iXSrnfwffi? ASFSrSm.^,
.. next craze for ornamentation. It is decieed
Vhai tSfiSS* Sin* ior .next
and old iron decorations of a warlike Character
tint racks made of muskets; centre tables with the
legs ere,calh'iets,^miekeW.^n^mantel
I; .. < r .hleswig-Holstein families, during a tup
bu^accOTdSg toitsall writers
for’the newspapers are admissible as members of
IIZ elub But ‘‘no one can be elected,’’ says one
of the 1 clauses, unless he is in the possession of all
his civil rights, and owns a complete pair ot
I trousers ” evidently a hint that the club
1 fellowship with Sansculottes...* Talbot lnorpe
i luifl hist published & racy little book descriptive of
| the it otorn ah ana Hot Springs Talbot Thorpe is a
i a nd the title of her work is, A Month in Hot
i wJpr ” When Talbot marries, her husband will
m-obably trot out a second edition on the same
eubject.
Prepared according to the directions i Prof.
E. N. Horsford. of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPBIA. HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
CENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-STCKNEBS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
No Danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D.. of Boston, the distin-
guished and popular physician, , those
“ Having in my own person experienced tnose
ills for which the Acid Phosphate Is prescribed, L
having found great relief and alleviation b> us
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of its
excellence."
Indigestion and Bladder and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Horsford’B Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite remedy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and °vei work, it is
of the greatest value to me. I have given it iu
certain forms of dyspepsia, in allS^iffootionsof
exhaustion from overwork, 4 certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have wways been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe ß i«h' Ha nro-
more as I beeome better acquainted with its pro
perties. Of all the samples af medicine scßtme
during the past dozen years, Horsford 8 AcidPhoß-
phate is the only one I have ever f° u “f which has
nponmfi u imccssity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardfy have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had n
in my own person experienced its good effects^
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 23,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to giving certifi-
cates and almost always decline to do so, yet in
the case of “ Horsford s Acid Phosphate, I am
gar l J
Pamphlets, with full information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDV
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It Is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches tire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lwa# Back, B-heumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cra.ups, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, S *ve Throat, and Dyp-
theria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughout the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, ami the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their t nish
BECAUSE they wre each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are the
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARKONTmOXHA.M & CO.,
Sole Agents.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
r We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.']
RACING.
Barcoo R.C. (Q.) . V J . ul f. 6 ’io
Clarence River J.C. Annual July 11.12.
ChartersTowms J.C. (Q.j July ll 18.
Warreoro •LO Jui.v
Brest Western Towns J.C. (Q.) July 18.19.
Tatter^nl' s n ■ • • • August 23, 25.
? fl T W p 'anring ' September 1, 4. 6, 8.
Northern.. ■; October6.
T.C October 13, 20.
R C Spring November 3, 6,8,10.
Victoria R.C. «P nn * November 9.
AQUATICS
rifibe Rowing Club Amateur Regatta... x . July 14.
New South Wales Association Regatta . .October 6.
COURSING
v,fn U b July 18, August 22.
Suth Australian Club June 12, July 18.
Ballarat Club June 28, Ju jy 26, August 28.
N S.W. Club * ’ Jul Y
Australian Club July 27, August 29.
ATHLETICS.
South Grafton Athletic Sports... ■ • • ■ ■ — • • July 13.
J. Aplitt v. T. M. Malone, 175 yards, £200,
Rofcany • July
Grand Athletic Handidap, Grafton Race- t u
Six Walking Sweepstakes,' #
BICYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Sports August 4.
FOOTBALL.
South Melbourne v. Sydney Clubs, As-
sociation Ground ......... ... .July 7,10,12.
South Melbourne v. New South Wales,
Association Ground ••••••• • • July 14.
Sydney v. Brisbane Club,, at Brisbane a
Parramatta v. Olobe. at Wentworth Park. ..July J.
Parramatta v. Newcastle, at Newcastle — July 21.
SHOOTING.
Victoria v. N.S. Wales, at Melbourne July 16.
Melbourne Gun Club Champion Stakes—July 19.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The new V.R.C. rules come in force this
week.
The Canterbury (N.Z.) Jockey Club cleared
£2838 bv the totalisator, and paid away £0676 in
stakes, being- a large increase on all former years.
Mace and Slade are in England, but the
English papers do not think they will knock out
Slade now weighs 17 stone, and mea-
sures 45 inches round the chest.
The N.S.W. Coursing meeting at Windsor
was concluded on Saturday last. The Windsor
Stakes were appropriated by G. Dickson « Pro-
gress; Mr. E. Bladen’s Begawonthe Puppy Stakes,
and the Metropolitan Stakes fell to J. Fletchers
Figaro.
W. Farnan has challenged Miller to a glove
contest. Two-thirds of gate-money to winner, and
one-third the loser. Too thin, Farnan. The Pro-
fessor can find plenty men to take a thrashing for
half the money.
The sawdust worriers, Edwards and
O’Leary, are to commence a fresh agony in Mel-
bourne on the 16th July, for £250 a side; either
man not covering 450 miles to forfeit his share of
the last two days’ gate-money.
At a meeting of the Auckland (N.Z.) Rugby
Football Association, the secretary was instructed
to write to the secretary of the Southern Rugby
Union, Sydney, asking what terms the Union
would be prepared to offer in the event of an Auck-
land team visiting Sydney.
Edwards’ victories over poor old Dan are
putting him “ off his head.” Immediately after the
match to commence on 16th July, he contemplates
a visit to America. Edwards may be a fair ped.,
lint wo would remind turn thftt he can t ivhUc bQ>c)i
from that giddy continent.
The following programme has beeu ar-
ranged for the N.S.W. Rugby footballers who
purpose visiting Brisbane :-15th August, First
Intercolonial match; 16th, Wallaroos; 18th, Bris-
bane club; 21st, Downs (if fifteen can be got
ogether); 23rd, return Intercolonial match; and
on the 24th they leave for Sydney.
Rowing seems to be at a low ebb in Eng-
land. George Bubear has been trying to start an
open scullers’ handicap, but the affair fell through
for want of ©ntrios. London Bell's Life says
“ it is to be hoped that when Largan arrives here
he will find friends ready to support him in a match
against England’s champion, George Bubear.”
About 700 attended the Morpeth races on
Friday. Hurdle Race: Mark 1, Myrtle 2; Chester-
ton and Merton fell; Mark won easily. Flying Han-
dicap: Croydon 1, War Eagle 2, Mabel 3. Croydon
won by a length. Selling Race: Kingfisher 1. Mor-
peth Handicap: War Eagle 1, Budelight 2, Volun-
teers; War Eagle won by a neck. Forced Handi-
cap: Budelightl, Volunteer 2.
Harry Channon, of Frogmoor, was recently
cantering along a level piece of ground at Reedy
Flat, when his horse stumbled and threw him on to
a|stump, fracturing his skull. He died some three
hours afterwards. Poor Channon was an enthu-
siastic all-round sportsman, and a general favourite
in the district. Mr. Timmis rode to Adelong for a
doctor, and covered 36 miles in something under
two hours.
The Canterbury (N.Z.) Jockey Club intend
giving £3700 in added money at their Spring meet-
ing in November. The principal events on the
first day will be the New Zealand Cup £1000, and
Welcome Stakes, £200; on the second day,
Stewards’ Stakes £250, Derby £250, Juvenile
Plate, £200; and Steeplechase, three miles, £150.
On the third day the main events are the Canter-
bury Cup, £500; Metropolitan, £200; Steeplechase,
£100; and Spring Nursery, £100. Now then, Ivory,
what about taking Jessie over ?
Thus Figaro:—“The famous Maori pugi-
list, Slade, is now in London, and a fine specimen of a
man he is, his appearance being suggestive of even
greater strength and longer reach than that of the
renowned Heenan. Great efforts are being made
to arrange for a display of his talent; and there
are even rumours of a surreptitious revival of the
glories of the P.R. for the purpose. But, as the
authorities are keeping a sharp look-out on Mr.
Slade and his movements, nothing of the latter
kind is very likely.”
It is not likely that Myers will visit Eng-
land this year, as that gentleman has issued chal-
lenges to George to run him three races at 1000,
1200, and 1320 yards. This offer might pass for
“ Yankee ’cuteness ” were the one-sided nature of
it not at once apparent. It is acknowledged by
Myers that George has no chance with him at half
a mile, so he magnanimously offers to run him a
race 120 yards more in length, at which distance
Myers has made a record surpassing the profes-
sional one, even. It is given by most athletes that
Myers is the better man at throe-quarters of a
mile; and every yard that a race is under that dis-
tance it is so much in his favour against George,
and the converse holds good to George’s benefit.
Setting aside the fact that George is suffering from
a bad strain, Myers’ anything but tempting offer is
not likely to “ retch him.”
A novel experiment is being tried in the
celebrated Englisn racing cutter Vanduara this
season. Electrio batteries have been placed on
board for the purpose of setting up an electric
current through tho steel plating of the vessel,
which has been burnished as bright as a new
knife. This electric current is expected to keep
the bottom of the yacht from fouling. The
strength of the current has not been stated; but no
doubt it will be strong enough to give o> o a
shock should a hand be incautiously placed on her
sides.
For the South Grafton Athletic Handicap,
125 yards, to come off on 13th July, W. Noud is
placed at scratch, P. Donoghue 3 yards; G. Sher-
loy (Sydney) 4 yards, and T. Hines (Sydney) 8
yards. The handicap ranges up to 17 yards. In
the other Athletic Handicap, 150 yards, to be run at
North Grafton, on July 14, there are 129 nomina-
tions, and possibly a row more may have been
made on the Richmond. F. Brown, Callaghan,
Farrell, and Pyke are among the Sydney nomina-
tions.
V.A.T.C. Races on Saturday last. Selling
Race: Can taw y, Nymph, Whisper. Four others
started. Time, lmin.Bsec. Handicap Hurdle Race:
Buzza, Triplet, Miller. Time, 3rnin. 37sec. Vic-
toria Gold Cup: Black Jacket, Abdallah, Yerlo.
Gold Top, Baronet, and Scotchman also started.
Time, 4min. 53sec. Ladies’ Trophy: The Ghost,
Liddington, Transferred. There were 40 other
starters. Transferred was first favourite. There
was a fair start, and a good race till near the close,
when the Ghost won easily. Time, 2min. 314$seo.
Steeeplechase: General Jackson, Vaulter, Napo-
leon.
The English Amateur Boxing Association
recently made application at Scotland Yard for the
fiolice to attend at one of its exhibitions, and
nterfere when it was thought the contestants had
received sufficient punishment. Not alone did the
Scotland Yard “boss” refuse to “take the chair,” as
was so kindly done by the N.S. W. Inspector-General
at the Miller-Foley show, but a strong intimation
was given that the perpetration of anything illegal
(the hitting of a man “too hard” being instanced)
might result in the appearance of all concerned at
a Police Court.
It having been rumoured that the amateur
champion George would attempt to beat record
time in the ten-mile race for the Oliver Challenge
Cup at the Moseley Harriers’ Meeting, a rare crowd
mustered at Aston, England. George was care-
fully trained, but met with an accident at the last
moment, and after leading for four miles, became
so lame that he had to retire. The race was won
by Snook. The Birmingham roughs howled at
George as if he had thrown the race over, whereas
anyone who kept his eyes open could have seen
that he was running lame and in difficulties a
couple of miles before he gave up.
As all the beds in the hotels were pre-engaged at the Albury Celebration, our
Representative was thrown upon the hospitality of the Pound-keeper’s dog.
According to the B.F. papers, C. A. Harri-
man has walked 121 miles without rest in 29 hours.
The feat was accomplished over a 165-foot track,
requiring 32 laps to the mile. The track was sur-
veyed and measured by a committee, and every
precaution was taken to get the walk on record.
The last one-half mile of the task was walked in
smin. 13sec. Ho received £26 for his performance
from the man who had the race in charge. The
previous record for distance walking without rest
was the 126 miles 1560 yards of Crossland, at Man-
chester (Eng.), Sept. 11 and 12, 1870. Harriinan
backs himself to walk 200 miles without rest.
Sullivan and Mitchell have met in a boxing
match in America, and, as we anticipated, wonder-
ful middleweight as the Englishman undoubtedly
Is, the American “put him through” in three
rounds. In the first round Mitchell got all the best
of it, but in the second Sullivan s weight and
strength began to tell, and the bout was a -'bout
equal. In the third Mitchell came up weak, and
Sullivan seeing his chance, and fighting as Miller
should have milled with Foley, dashed in. relying
on his hitting power to make a finish of the affair,
which he did. By the way, how is it that Sullivan,
who, according to all accounts by last mail, was
half-dead of pneumonia, has come round so sud-
denly ? *
That historical sporting hostelry, “ Hunch’s
Hotel," Pitt and King streets. Sydney, terminated
its spirituous career on Saturday night. A banking
company will now occupy the site. The only
drafts to be got henceforth will be over-drafts.
Which reminds us that lots of people have had
over-draughts at Punch’s at one time or other. In
the *ld times, the thirstier a man was the larger his
draught might be; but it is greatly to be feared
that from now the greater a man’s necessities, the
less will be his chanoe of getting a draft at all.
Anyhow, Punch’s, as a bank of issue, has put its
shutters up. It’s now to be a bank of deposit.
At Burwood, on Saturday last, the local
footballers met the University team, and were
defeated by 18 points to nil. This match, however,
cannot be taken as a criterion of the Burwoods’
strength, as five or six of their best players were
absent, and, to make matters worse, they had to
play most of the game with fourteen men, as
Hassall was hurt early in the day.. .The Redfern
and Balmain Clubs met on Moore Park, but, owing
to the enroaehment of the crowd, the game could
not be played out. Balmain claimed the victory
by two points to nil. During the afternoon,
Cameron, of the Balmaniacs, made tho run of the
season, carrying the ball the whole length of the
ground, and obtaining a touch-down.. ..Un the
Association Cricket Ground the East Sydney and
P tersham clubs met for the second time this
season. East Sydney won the match by 1 goal
19 behinds to their opponents’ 1 goal 7 behinds.
At the recent Dunedin (N.Z.) meeting, just
before the starting of the Novel Race, a well-
known Boniface, while surveying the totalisator
and trying to make up his miuu what he should
back, had his elbow touched by a man whom ho
didn’t know, and who said to him, “Better back
Clinkerina.” Asked the publican, “ Why should I
back her ?” “ Because she can go like blazes— l’ve
seen her.” Then Boniface drew his gratuitous
adviser out of the crowd, and talked to him on the
quiet. “ Now tell me,” he said, “what makes you
advise me to back Clinkerina ?” The stranger re-
plied, “ Because I want to do you a turn. Years
ago, I was hard up, and wanted two shillings to
pay my fare to Port Chalmers, and I asked you for
it. You gave it me right off, and you now take
what I give you: back Clinkerina; there's nothing
in it but her.” Boniface put £2 on Clinkerina—and
as, after the race, he was collecting his dividend of
£56, he again saw his mysterious friend at his
elbow. Enquired he: “If you knew Clinkerina
was so good, why did not you back her yourself ?”
—“Ah!” was the reply; “look at my clothes; 1
had no money.” His ailment was speedily re-
lieved.
Miller has stated that he made £540 out of
the Foley affair and his Melbourne benefit; that he
considers Foley the best man that ever stood be-
fore him; that he is willing to put £lOO in a stake
of £506, and back Larry against Mitchell, or any
middleweight in the world; and that to win from
a man of Foley’s weight, good as he is, was o
honour. No exception can be taken to the state-
ment that it was no great performance for a man
of Miller’s size to take three hours to boat a lOst.
101 b. man, but we wonder how the “Professor’s”
backers will like his acknowledgment that tie won
the battle, although he agreed to a draw. “ A
Disappointed Stakeholder” writes in tho Melbourne
Sportsman that “ho was asked to put a small
amount in Miller’s stake, on the distinct under-
standing that if ho won ho was to get back his
money, awl an much more." Miller has paid back
the money put in by the stakefinders, with 40 por
cent, added. The custom is to return only the
money put in; but if he made any arrangement he
should stand by it, as he received the whole of the
stakes, It is the backers who have most reason to
complain, as in consenting to a draw he completely
threw them over.
Captain Barclay, who years ago was the
leading patron of English sport, is reputed to have
made many strange sporting wagers. The cham-
pion carrier of weights in England wagered that
he “ would carry 561 b. more than any other man a
greater distance.” The captain said he could find
a man, and the match was made. Upon the day
of the match a mass of weights were oarted to tho
ground by the champion’s friends, and Barclay
was requested to produce his man. “ Here he is,
replied the captain, pointing to a wretohed picture
of humauity under nine stone, with a one-pound
weight in his waistcoat pocket. Of course “ Her-
cules" could not carry his extra weight against
that, and his backers lost their money. On another
occasion < large sum was laid between the captain
and another gentleman, each putting a snail on the
back of a dinner plate, the first off to win. Here,
again, the captain had a point. He had his plate
made uncomfortably hot, so that his snail “ hooked
ii” with all possible speed, while his adversary's
scarcely made a move. It was Captain Barclay
who first walked a thousand miles in a thousand
hours, a performance which at that time it was
considered would never be equalled. The same
feat we believe, has since been accomplished by a
woman.
The great international chess tournament
in London lasted neariy two months. From all parts
of Europe strange pale men gathered, each a
master or the game. Daily they played, for prizes
ranging from £25 to £300; and for weary hours, day
after day, hundreds of men and women paid their
half-crowns to watch their slow struggles from
outside.the roped boundary. The players all sat
in a cleared space in the middle of the room, at
little round tables; and under the glare of tho
patient enthusiasts looking on, while the clocks
kept up a maddening tick, their games were
played. Occasionally an outsider, a barbarian,
with no chess views, would raise his voice above a
whisper, when a chorus of indignant murmurs
warned him of certain ejectment. The players
were men of world-wide repution, and Zukertort
was the favourite all through. He has won. He
is weakly, and sits immovable as a sphinx, with a
bird-like glittering eye. Steinitz, a brilliant little
Jewish-faced Austrian, second. The champion,
Blackburne, who is painfully irritable, third.
Mason chewed all the time; Englisch toyed eter-
nally with a cigar, sitting sideways; and Mackenzie
was’the only really handsome man there. Behind
the bar, in a corner of the room, where a silence as of
a graveyard was peremptorily kept all the time,
was a victim of cruel torment. She was a pretty
barmaid—and she daren’t talk.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
The Weekly Press thinks that Bundoora,
Welcome Jack, and Adamant are on public form
the pick of the bunch for the N.Z. Cup, and with
these out of it Tasman would be next choice, for
it is unlikely that Betrayer will stand another
severe preparation. Anyhow, Tasman, Matanaka,
and Leos, are most In demand Mr. W.
Forrester, if anxious for a pleasant half-hour,
should sit down and read all the pretty
things the N.Z. scribes write of him re his
decision in the Miller-Foley glove-contest
The Parramatta Football Club defeated the Pyr-
mont club last Saturday on Wentworth Park by
one goal and one try to one goal under protest —
The brilliant N.Z. nailer, Billingsgate, recently
relegated to the stud, during his career started n
sixty-three races. Of these he won no less than
thirty-one, in fourteen he gained second place, and
ran third on ten occasions. The postseason pulled
down his average considerably through being
raced broken-down A racehorse called Dales-
man and jockey named Frank Poll have been dis-
qualified for ever by the leading N.Z. Clubs—
The proposed four-oared race between the Sydney
and Melbourne Telegraph olhces has i alien through,
George Adams beat William Scully in 150 yards
foot race at Armidule. Hugh Irwin has been
matched against the winner—On 23rd June, Geo.
Hill beat James Robinson in a sculling match on
the Upper Yarra, Vic J. Raymond defeated J.
Croake in 100 yards spin at l.ithgow, 30th
June, for £5 a side At the Newmarket
(Eng.) Second Spring meeting, W. A. Long’s
Banksia ran last in the Second Spring Two
Year Old Stakes. Mr. Long’s luck has evidently
not followed him to England, as, with the exception
of TonanB, his horses are not paying for their oats..
At the settling over the Kooky Mouth races, the
committee returned Mr. Fielder, the owner or Sir
Edward, the amount of his nomination fee At
Kempsey. the horse race between M‘DonneU’s Fly
and T. Salmon’s Little Black Jack for £3OO, resulted
in an easy win for Fly —Mr. Richard Waddy has
been appointed Master of the Northern Hunt Club
hounds. That enthusiastic huntsman, Mr.
Edward Terry, has given the Club a silver cup,
valued at 25 guiueas, for the winner of the
steeplechase, to be run at tho close of the
hunting season Tho Sale (Vic.) Turf Club has
decided not to altor date of meeting The Union
Bank Footballers defeated the Bank of Australasia
by 4 points to nil, in a match on 27th June ...G.
Martin has purchased the steeplechaser, Black-
thorn (late Tipperary Boy) for 200 guineas. Mr.
Phillips says he parted from the horse because he
did not get fair play from the handicappers
Murdoch, cricketer, is reported to have shot 29 out
of 30 birds, 28 yards’ rise, at Cootamundra....lt is
stated that the Auckland yacht Muratai will come
over to Sydney next season, and take part in
several contests against some of our cracks The
Hearn-Harrington (N.Z.) sculling match is “olf ” un
less tho latter rows in Wellington harbour. Hearn
says that as he is champion he has made up liis
mind not to run about N.Z. after every aspirant
who chooses to throw down the gauntlet Being
dissatisfied with the weights, the Hon. W. Robinson
scratched the majority of Ills horses for N.Z, Cup...
Colonial racing hus altered slightly since the year
1830. At the opening of the Hobart course in that
year, the first Town Plate was run in heats of four
miles. Four heats weie run, so that the winning
horse covered sixteen miles. How many of tho
present generation of rachorses could go through
such a performance? —A sporting publican in
Melbourne had his daughter called after a mare
that once won the Melbourne Cup. This is what a
writer in the Australasian says, anyhow. We
should like to know if the mare also acted as god-
mother. We always, for our own part, name our
children after mules. There is then some proba-
bility of their not belfeing their names when they
grow up. Besides, it is a compliment to the Bench.
. The Tasmanian Racing Club intends trying to in-
troduce a Bill into next session of Parliament,
legalising the totalisator Floods have been so
heavy in Adelaide as to flood the Morphetville
coure several feet deep, and the caretaker’s family
had to take refuge in the grandstand, as the furni-
ture was floating about in his cottage. Some of
Sir Thomas Elder's brood mares, now so near foal-
ing, were up to their bellies in the flood waters
At the Adelaide Hounds “ Ladies’ Meet,” Lady Wil-
liam Robinson was in the first flight Abe Davis
has purchased Josephine from Joe Harper, for
£l5O Mr. Win. Filgate has been made starter to
the S.A.J.C— English county cricket clubs refuse
to guarantee next Australiam team visiting Eng-
land half receipts of grandstands.. .Arthur Brown,
of Young, challenges C. Bellette, or any other man
in the Murrumburrah district, to run 100 yards for
£2O a side Blayney has beaten Carcoar at foot-
ball Thomas Clifford, sen., father of the rising
Illawarra sculler, died suddenly while milking a
cow. Aged 00... .On Saturday last, at Melbourne,
the Carlton footballers defeated the Essendons ;
and at Adelaide the Norwoods defeated the North
Adelaides; and the South Adelaides won
their match against the South Park players
A match, Skating v. Walking, came off at Hay
recently, for £5. Frank Wyburd, the skater, gave
W. Clifford, the walker, twenty minutes’ start in an
hour’s spin. Clifford won. ..In a football match
between Dunedin and Oamaru (N.Z.), the ground
was covered with mud and water, and in this the
players struggled, fell, rolled, and in some in-
stances lay for a while, as if to obtain relief In tho
coolness of the pea-soup liquid.
• •
Sullivan, the champion American bruiser,
bathes in the sea, and eats four sticks of celery per
diem to keep his nerves in order Tom Oldcrol’t,
tho once famous jockey, died at Newmarket,
England, on May 4 —The English cutter, Eryoinu,
tho largest cutter ever put together, built at
Fairlie, it is rumoured will go over to America, to
try conclusions with some of the sloops Earl de
Grey, shooting in India with a party got up by the
Maharajah of Durbungab, made a total bag of 1683,
including four tigers, 47 buffaloes, 280 pigs, and 407
deer, the remainder of the bag being “small game.”
Tho Anglo-Indian sporting world is very angry at
the success of the party, and bitterly com-
plains of such wholesale destruction, particu-
larly as it happens to be the breeding season
Thus the World: “ There are now some splendid
distance-runners about, who, only a few years ago,
would have been champions amongst champions.
This is only in the running department; for at
jumping, weight-putting, hammer-throwing, and
hurdling, our athletes, with very rare exceptions,
have reached the standard of mediocrity.” At
the annual meeting of the Marylebone Cricket Club
Lord Harris said that some more stringent rule
should be laid down with regard to no-balling a
bowler for throwing, as, last year, on more than
one occasion, alleged throwing in matches led to
somewhat riotous protests on the part of the on-
lookers; and, unless something was done, such
scenes would doubtless be repeated hereafter..,.
Oxford v. Cambridge cricket match concluded on
27th ultimo. Cambridge won by seven wickets.
Cambridge won by seven wickets also in ’B2. Since
’63, Oxford has won 10, and Cambridge 11 matches.
Archer, by his victories at Manchester, once
more heads the list of winning Jockeys. Both
Fordhain and Wood have been at times a win or
two ahead of him, but the ohampion will, no
doubt, be once more to the front if he continues
to ride throughout the year The will of the late
Mr. Frederick Gretton has been proved, and the
personal estate sworn as under £301,000
Maud S., the great American trotting mare, is (ac-
eording to the New York Spirit or the Times)
getting into form again, and John Splan writes
thus to the editor: “I want to predict, if Mr.
Vanderbilt allows her to be trotted this year,
that she will do a mile in 2 minutes 8 seconds
W. Cook, the English billiardist, in a game with
H. K. Campbell, made 88 consecutive cannons in
the middle of the table, only using the cushion
three times during the break ... At West Broinpton
(Ping.), J. Cash defeated W. Perkins in a mile wall •
ing match for £lOO in 7min. 1 2-ssec. Perkins
walked with undeniable fairness, but was out-
paced from the very start. Cash's style was any-
thing but taking, there being too much knee and
shoulder work, and though it would have been
regarded with suspicion years ago, it was “fairish,”
and will pass muster nowadays. Times: Cash,
quarter mile, lmin. 35sec.; hair mile, Bmln. 18sec.;
three-quarters of a mile, smin. ssec.: one mile,
7min. 1 2-ssec. Perkins, quarter-mile, lmin. 39sec.;
half mile, 3min 31sec.; three-quarters of a mile,
smin. 2«sec.; one mile, 7min. 21 2-ssec.
Press correspondents wail ted immediately,
In every town in Australia. Australian Press
Agency, fll Lt. Collins tit. East, Melbourne; Sydney,
138 Pitt St.—Adv.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing: so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma. Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “ Arnold’s’*
aud get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
T>UBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 18«4,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP


SOCIAL.
A correspondent who, at the Masonic affair
a few days ago, experienced his first public ball in
Australia, sends a few of his impressions. He was
disappointed at the general disregard by dancers of
both time, step, and deportment; quadrilles were
danced in all sorts of different ways, and persons
stood up completely innocent of any knowledge of
dancing. Ladies dressed well, but lacked carriage.
There were several good waltzers, who reversed
properly and gracefully. In most parts of Great
Britain, Europe, and Amerioa, reversing is
universal; and the writer upholds it for four
distinct reasons: to avoid accident, as a cure for
giddiness, to vary the monotony, and because
those who can do it correctly can so adapt their
style and step as to-be able to waltz anywhere and
with anyone who can really waltz. The writer
adds: “As a rule I have found those who cannot
reverso always condemn it, and vice versa.” Our
correspondent has travelled, and, as a judge of
danoing, no man in Australia is more oompoteut to
speak.
• • •
On the 26th June, a marriage was cele-
brated wheroby Miss Clara Drew, of the Glebe,
became Mrs. George Hewison, and in the evening
that important event was further celebrated by a
large party, at whioh 100 were present, in the local
Town Hall. Guests as they entered were intro-
dcced to the happy couple by the bride’s eldest
brother, who did the honours of the evening.
Dancing commenced at 9, and finished at the
reasonable hour of 3 a.m. A good spread was
mado by Compagnoni, which gave teetotal plea-
sure, and sixteen dances were on the programme.
After half of them had been completed, a game
called “musical chairs” was introduced, In which
a large number joined, This lasted about half an
hour; it formed an agreeable break, and was a
thoughtful provision for thoso,ospecially the young
ones, who could not dance. Tho bride, of course,
“ drew ” lots ol’ admiration in her pretty oroam
moird antique, draped with white and orange-
blossoms. Four little dots were bridesmaids; two
in pink cashmere and satin, and two in blue cash-
mere and satin. During the evening three of these
small maidens danced n Highland Fling creditably,
and a song or two wore given. One of the prettiest
dresses was that worn by Miss Myers, of Leich-
hardt, a pale blue and cream satin, adorned
uniquely with rows of rosebuds in silk crewelling.
In a very handsome whit* satin, adorned with
bullion fringe, with a gold band brought ovor each
shoulder, was a Glebe young lady, to whom tho
company were Indebted ror a capital extra waltz—
the best of the evening, too. Two sisters were
quiet and pretty in cream brochd nnd nun’s cloth;
a married lady was stately in a figured satin of
silver grey; and a lady with a “pile" of golden
huir was rich in ruby velvet and pearls. MissN.
Collins wore black velvet, with cardinal silk inlets;
Miss Cooper was a casket of charms in pale pink;
and a graceful blonde beauteous as ever iu her
decking of fragrant violets.
• • •
Masher (loq.): “Ya-as, I’m spoons on the
girl, but her dad has got his knife Into me, and
won’t fork out, dear boy.”
• •
At a recent Auokland (N.Z.) wedding, the
prospective bride at the last raomont wanted to
gain some point from her future husband, and ho
would not consent. At the altar tho bride point
blank refused to allow the knot to be tied, and the
ceremony was postponed sine die. Beolng there
was no other means of conciliating his loved one,
the poor fellow gave way, and tho marriage took
place on the following day.
* * *
At Gisborne (N.Z.) a couple attended the
Catholic Church for the purpose of getting married.
The ceremony had proceeded to the point where
the priest put the question to the bridegroom.
“ Wilt thou take this woman to be thy lawful
wedded wife?” “I will,’’ was the reply. “Wilt
thou take this man to be thy lawful wedded hus-
band?" said the priest to the bride. At that
moment a note was placed in her hand by a spec-
tator, containing something.” I will not, said the
bride, who at once rushed out of the church and
disappeared. Tho wedding ceremony was thus
abruptly brought to an end. It’s quite easy to
guess tne class of communication contained ia
that note.
• • •
Within the Grenfell electorate, a comely
young widow recently got married privately and
secretly to “ one who spoke the Irish brogue, and
dressed in a suit of blue.” A priest of the Church
of Rome was requested to perform the ceremony,
but he refused; consequently, the servicos of a
rival minister were secured for the occasion. Now,
it was a very naughty thing for the policeman to
get himself wedded without his superior’s leave, so
the affair was kept as quiet as most secrets are;
but as it became very apparent that the widow
had wedded again, her lord thought the time had
come for him to return his coat, and accordingly
he sent in his resignation. But, unhappily, at about
the same time his little game was discovered by
the authorities, who admonished and thou banished
him to a far country for throe mouths, at the ex-
piration of which time his resignation would be
received, and he would bo at liberty to return to
his sorrowing wife—who, determining not to be
out-generallod, succeeded through tho modium of
an obliging M.L.A., in procuring her husband’s
discharge from the force after ho had done about
a week's duty in the remote town to which he had
been roinoved, and just as he was beginning to
know the girls there, and cat cold mutton at night.
Ho returned and went about the task of complet-
ing the wedding ceremonies. The orthodox cake
was made, and preparatory to its distribution
among guests and friends, it was laid upon a table,
when an unceremonious and uninvited guest in
the form ot a mastiff entered, walked out into the
street unobserved with all the cake, and devoured
the greater portion before he was observed by the
merrtifled pair and their guests, who had to be con-
tent with plum-duff. Tne dog still lives, and thus
it endeth. The ex-policeman, having surrendered
his authority, couldn’t even arrest the canine on
a charge of larceny, or insulting conduct, or uou-
registration.
* * *
In a part of Germany an edict has just been
issued, and the police are to see it is carried out.
that no youth under 17 is to be admitted to a ball
or served with alcoholic beverages unless accom-
panied by his parents. To bal masques tho youths
of the above ago are to bo admitted on uo terms
whatever. Moreover—and this is the severest cut
of all—no youth under 16 is to be allowed to smoke
in the public streets. This is one of the most prac-
tically sensible things we have heard of. Our balls
are thronged by cheeky boys and chits of girls,
who grow cunning and wizened under the gas-
glare, when they ought to be in their little beds.
And some of the hobbledehoys are very laeile at
tilting brandy bottles into an oblique position.
Their parents often don’t know of it; and, if they
did, probably haven’t any control over them.
Moreover, smoking and spitting, swearing and
swaggering, are the only employments of many of
the very juvenile and very port youth of Sydney
long before they reach 16; and it would be good if
Robert the Peeler were empowered to seize upou
some of these rapid youths sometimes, and walk
them off on their little pink ear. And, further-
more, when they knot together on the street in
the hearing of ladies, and vent ribald foolishness
until tho whole vicinity of their presence becomes
saturated with suggestions of gore, it would be
good if the gentle Robert were to take them to the
“Central,” and then and there, having inverted
them nnd mado the necessary modification in the
disposition of their apparel, administer correction
iu that primitive fashion familiar to their early
infancy which they have scarcely yet had time to
forgot. It might jar their juvenile dignity somo-
what; but it would mend their manners, and make
tho atmosphere of the city a good deal purer.
* * *
Mr. Heath, priuoipal of the Girls’ High
School, Auckland, has had the temerity to start a
crusade against feminine fashions, and has invoked
the authority of the Board of Education to com-
pel a rigorous course of physical education. And
the brave Board support him. What heroism this
Involves may be guessed, when it is told that'
among other dreadful things, Mr. Heath says some
of the girls at his school are “sluggish and
slovenly,” and others have “uncouth ways,” be-
cause they won’t drill. Some can’t walk freely
because or “pull-backs;” while yet others of the
Eretty rebels, he distinctly avers—by reason of
igh heels and so on—have “poor legs! ” Now, we
quite believe all this; but tell us, Mr. Heath, just
whisper now, how did you collate all this valuable
information ?
• - • •
He would be a very credulous person who
could believe that closing public houses at eleven
made a single drunkard one whit more sober. But,
even if it did, it’s very hard that decent people
should parch for his weakness; and it’s very hard
on theatre-goers—
A visitor goes
To one of these shows.
And four hours later oome out —at the close,
It’s a little after eleven, suppose,
He can’t get his nose
Into friend or foe’s
Where the good rod wine, or the lager flows;
And everyone knows
That to seek repose,
To get forty winks, or a decent doze,
When vainly his eyo for a nip he throws,
And can’t get a sniff—unless “ under the rose”—
Is the cruellest acme of human woes.
• • •
What has justly oome to be regarded as
the event of the season In the go-ahoad “ City of
the Crows’*—the Masonic Ball—happened on St.
John’s Day last. Ever since the large square oards,
adorned by the peerless hand writing of Bro. I>aly,
went out a few weeks ago, the fair ones have been
exercising their faculties of invention and taste ia
tho construction of dresses. And the outcome did
them credit. The hall—the Masons’ own hall, by
tho way, with probably the premier floor of the
South—was fittingly decorated, the greenery and
rosery with which the walls were dressed being
interspersed with the mystic emblems of the order.
Not less than 300 were present, and not until after
midnight was there any perceptible thinning of
the numbers. We make no attempt to describe
what the ladies had good reason to be proud of—
the dresses. They were uniformly pretty and
becoming. The genial squire of Brookong lent his
presence, and, what is better, brought nis three
daughters with him, all of whom looked charming.
There was rather a considerable sprinkling of
brides—among them the first bride of Bt. Mary’s,
whose ivory satin looked even prettier than it did
during the Triduum. Narandera contributed an-
other bndo (a solicitor’s bride, too), and her attire
arrested a stare wherever it was seen flitting.
Supper was spread in the lodge-room, and it
shared the fate of all good suppers. The stewards
were unremitting in their attentions to the guests,
and as a result wall-flowers were rare. Tho
orchestra was under the leadership of Bro. Broad-
hurst (an old friend of the Victoria Theatre), and
he kept things going until the whole programme
and a few extras had been exhausted.
* * *
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Lalor to
Mr. A. W. Davidson, Public School teacher, last
Thursday, was a ceremony differing from the usual
nuptial proceedings. Both bride and bridegroom
are Friends, and were united according to the
usages of that society. Standing on a platform
facing those present, they uttered their vows, un-
assisted by any third person; but the pastor subse-
quently offered prayer, read the certificate of
marriage, and gave an address. His ministrations,
however, were no part of the act of marriage,
which was solemmized by tho two alone. The
bride wore a travelling dross of navy-blue velvet
and white lace. You can’t always find a husband
and wife who are Friends. Tins may be read in
two ways.
« * •
Mr. and Mrs. Turner, of Elizabeth-street.
gave an enjoyablo dancing evening at their rooms
on Wednesday week, to about 100 guests, when the
fun was kept up in a lively style till early morn-
ing. Among tne handsome toilets was noticeable
that of the hostess’ daughter, an elegant white
satin. Mrs. G. Eastway wore a Lyons grosirrain
black silk, with diamond jewellery; Miss L. Phillips,
blue satin bodice and ecru cashmere skirt; and
Mrs. J. Solomon, a fine white satin broohs, with
head trimming to match, &c.
• • •
There was a marriage of some interest at
Milan in May. It was that of Miss Monica Chis-
holm, daughter of a lady whose name was, at an
early part of Australia s history, perhaps more
widely familiar than that of any other of her sex—
Caroline Chisholm, tho “ Emigrant’s Friend.” Even
now, after many years, tho name is as a household
word. It is said the motto, “ Advance, Australia 1”
was adopted for the Australian flag by Lord
Palmerston on her suggestion. Her daughter,
Miss Monica, has now become Mrs. Arthur Lloyd
Gruggan. * * *
On Friday, the German Club celebrated its
anniversary in the Club Rooms, Castlereagh-streety
by a concert and soiree dansante. Oror a hundred
ladies and gentlemen were present. The oonoert
Included solos, glees, and various vocal and instru-
mental selections by musicians whose national
names are harder to spell than “January"—assisted
by Mr. Malcolm and Miss St. Clair. Decorations of
greenery and Hags were abundantly disposed
around, and soma of tho staid Teutons indulged in
cards, conversation, billiards, and beloved lager;
while others, more reckless, ventured on the giddy
whirl of tho dancing floor. And it to giddy when
they do it; there’s no chandelier meandering in a
Gorman waltz. Herr Kretschmann and three as-
sistants played fine stringod music for the ball, and
the little affair went smoothly in every way.
* * *
On Friday, 13th July, the Balmain Rowing
Club hold their second annual ball. Encouraged
by their local success last year, this time they have
ceino ovor to tho Sydney Town Hall. Already 160
tickets are sold, with a week to the goad for unde-
cided persons to make up their minds. Com-
ptignonl will cater, De Groen give the music, and '
Turner and Co. do the wines. The programmes
are neat cards, with the Club oolour/s cm a flag, and
a picture of the picturesquely situated boatshed,
and no doubt the dancers will lay them carefully
by as “momentums” of the ball. Mr. Ainsworth
is determined the whole affair shall be free from
tho slightest objectionable feature. Fancy dress
optional.
* * *
Miss Gully, of Ashford College, Darling-
hurst, held her annual pupils’ social
the Town Hall, on the 36th June, when over 300,
including relatives and friends, were present.
Selections of music were followed by a drama, in
German, titled “Mary Queen of Scots, the scholars
taking parts. Then came dancing, which afforded
delectation to tho young ladies, and lasted for seme
hours. Refreshments were available, and all went
smoothly.
• • •
Professor West gave a Calico Apron and
Neck-tie party to his Ashfleld dancing class last
Tuesday night, in tho School of Arts. The room
was prettily decorated, and some of the aprons
looked quite coquettish. The idea is this. Each
lady weaiB an apron of a certain oolour, and pro-
vides a tie to match. The ties are juinbled up to-
gether, and one presented to each gentleman. The
latter has then to search for the apron whioh is of
a corresponding colour to the tie, and dance the
first dance with the wearer. This does away with
a good deal of stiffness and formality. The
principal dances were the new waltz and polkas,
and some of the more advanced pupils went
through the French Cotillion —not quite to the
Professor’s satisfaction. About a dozen pairs of
young folks were there, and danced quite prettily.
A little lady in a pink satin frilled skirt, with ever-
skirtof same coloured cashmere edged with swans-
down, seemed to dance on air. One ef the adults,
who woro a cream satin drees with crimson apron,
and her hair coiled round the crown of her head,
also danced well. And if this cannot be said of all
the Professor’s pupils, it eertainly is through no
fault of his.
Social continued on next pajre.
F
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring street*, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
I J TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Furniture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
NOVELTIES in Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and inex-
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
"DILLIARDTABLES, full size, with anpurten-
Jj ances ; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
8 feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
~D EDSTEADS, all sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
J 3 LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
O'Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.-The
Economio Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
eases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10sfid; Tables, from7s6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 265; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 80s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY,:
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
O
-Japanese, and Chippendale designs!
. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
VERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, &Ss. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
URNITURE.—The Largest Stock hT the
Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
TfiRAWINCUROOM CABINETS—EarIy English,
I 9 Anglo-
Just opened. BBJL
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
streets.
INING-ROOM FURNITURE. Magnificent
Suites in Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, c&e M to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
F'“ RAMEWORK for DRAWING and DINING
ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
in Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials_for_uj>-
holstery. Open to inspection.
TON, and LAMB.
BRADLEY, NE\
B
G
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs.—Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment just opened; many quite new,
designs. _____
Occasional cliairs in "very great
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, Ac., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
dFFICE FURNITURE, WRITING TABLES,
Chairs, Stools, Desks, &o>, Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
TCE CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
1. amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
TRON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
STEIN WAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
in the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
OQ GUINEA riANO, WARRANTED sound
j&O and durable, in solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
_ BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Q/YGUINEAdPIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
I pass, all the latest improvements, in hand-
some walnut case; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE in the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
-f- IP P’S CELEBRATED PIANOS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
t. T.TPP and SONS* celebrated PIANOFORTES
iireet from the Makers, comprising TALL
! RANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
iOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
lIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
in
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
WE HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM.
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOR PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell and Spring streets.


The Engineering Conversazione at the Ex-
hibition is a splendid lounge. You can go strolling
round, see your friends, stock your mind with
useful knowledge, and listen to delicious music
under the electric light, all for a well-worn shil-
ling. The City Band's concerts are alone worth
more. Bicyclists can see the best and latest thing
in bikes; there is the human door, that rebukes
you if you either leave it open or bang it shut,
by sedately closing itself; there are electric experi-
ments, models of trams, Yankee “fakes” that are,
each in itself, the acme of ingenuity; iced drinks,
miniature Australs, photos., plans, engines, guns,
machinery, furniture, a panorama, and light re-
freshments. All is so arranged in the large build-
ing that there is plenty of room to move about and
inspect comfortably. Many go night after night,
and it’s the popular promenade at present.
* * *
Last week, another “Ladies’ Night” was
given by the Petersham Owls, and the concert
portion of the programme was voted by all as the
best yet. An array of talent was purveyed such
as can seldom be heard in the musical line except
at high-priced concerts, and the Owls give it free
(by invitation). Many encores were desired by the
audience, who insisted on their being recognised.
The polished chairman wrostled in a most intrepid
manner with the formidable foreign names that
studded the programme, and in several instances
completely conquered them. Miss St. Clair, in a
fleecy dress of lace covering a satin underskirt,
was as artistic as ever; and Paiadini sang an ex-
quisite solo from “ Martha ” in his best style.
Giammona sang twice, and his duet with Mrs.
Wood provoked a lot of appreciation. Herr Francik
played twice, his answer to the insistance of the
hearers being a sweet-toned solo on his violin.
Charles Malcolm, pianist, was set for two pieces,
which the audience multiplied to four, and his own
composition, “Passing Band,” was amongst them.
Kretschmann was in good form, as were Jefferson
and Phillips ; and several other amateurs added '
their efforts. When the vocalization finished, there
was a short interval for light liquoring and so on,
and then the chairs were removed, and dances
followed till midnight. The daughter of a lady
vocalist was one of the most favourite of partners:
a brunette, in black satin with cardinal sleeves and
bow, was attractive. Two fair sisters, in pink and
blue respectively, were from town ; a lady in a
brilliant golden satin, covered with black lace,
from Annandale; a surveyor's charming sister in
pink llama; a blonde, in lavender silk and pearls,
excelled in featly tripping, and so did a pale blue
petite who favoured with a timely dance ■tune.
Wo hoar that the Club is going to cover itself with
glory in a short time by a ball, concerning which
there are rumours of woird grandeur; but this
subject is—to be continued.
• • •
On Wednesday week, Mr. and Mrs.
King, of Jamberoo, entertained a number of
friends, on the occasion of their daughter, Isabella,
becoming Mrs. S. Cooke. Charming was the bride
in fawn satin, wreath and veil, also her maids
(Misses Cooke and Janet King) in cream satin, and
white muslin and lace. After the ceremony, and
breakfast to some two score guests, the twain
departed for Wollongong and Sydney, and the
invited guests danced till daylight,
• •
His Excellency the Governor arrived in
Sydney from Melbourne on Saturday morning, and
on Monday afternoon he visited the Engineering
Conversazione. Several things were explained to
him. Lord Augustus was extremely delighted,
especially with the cup of tea offered to him by
Quong Tart. Quong has since enshrined the cup
among the Tart family jewels, and won’t allow it
even to be dusted. His Excellency said it was all
so nice and so instructive that he’d come again,
and endeavour to persuade Lady Loftus to accom-
pany him.
# # *
The Salvation Army is trying to make a
start in Cootamundra. But the Cootamundra people
don’t trouble about such small matters as salva-
tion. The Mte are up to their necks in lawn : ennis.
...It is rumoured in musical circles that Miss
Christian, R.A.M., the popular vocalist, will visit
Sydney during the mid-winter vacation Far
Northern society is still rather mixed. The Her-
berton (N.Q.) Masonic ball was a grand success,
none but Masons and “ respectable women ” being
admitted. Several fair creatures had imported
very costly dresses from the South for the occasion,
but were not allowed to be present, on the ground
that their morals weren’t up to concert, or, rather,
Masonic-ball, pitch. Of course, there were no
respectable men in the place except the Masons
Rumoured that the daughter of a cer-
tain Knight will shortly become a Baroness of
the Russian Empire....A few frien s dined with
George Rignold, last Friday, at the Maison Doree,
Melbourne, to bid him farewell on starting for
Europe On the 3rd instant, Hon. George Coppin
was installed as Grand Master of Masons in Victoria
.. .The Normanby Bicycle and Tricycle Club, Mel-
bourne, held their first annual ball on Wednesday
week in the Athenaeum. Large and stylish attend-
ance, Flock’s band, lavish decorations, and pretty
girls all combined to make it a thorough success.
.... Athletes in every branch seem to indulge in
balls in Victoria. Following the Bicyclists, the
members of the South Melbourne Swimming Club
had their annual ball, which received lots of patron-
age... The Botanical Gardens in Melbourne are
now available all day on Sundays, though great
objection was at first made to their being open
during church time. Just fancy, keeping God’s
own church closed to force people into gloom-
laden buildings!... .The next Bachelors'Assembly
at Nithsdale comes on the 7th July. This will con-
clude the first series. In August, another series
will begin, under a reconstituted committee, and it
is contemplated to have no visitors, as the number
of members is already so large... Next Wednes-
day “ Our Boys” will be repeated at Parramatta,
by the same amateurs as before, but in aid of the
Alfred C.C., who give the performers a compli-
mentary dance in the Masonic Hall after the
comedy is over.... On the 18th, Mrs. F. Wyatt gives
an evening and fancy dress party, to mark her
daughter’s birthday, at Pomona, Darlmghurst....
A ball was given in the Temperance Hall, Shell-
harbour, on the 33ud June, on a teetotal basis—
June 22nd, the second Young Winter Assembly
took place in the Oddfellows’ Hall, when the ton
of the town and cream of the country danced for
some six hours to Sherwin’s music, and went away
voting it a pleasant ball .. Grand Masonic Ball in
Windsoi-, under distinguished town patronage,
next month Just a little “local blow.” At Sir
William Jervois’s ball in N.Z., some six months
ago, the Maori newspapers gave Mrs. Thomas
Morrin credit for being the most handsomely
dressed lady present. Well, that dress was sent to
her from Sydney, and made in Wynyard-square.
On dit that a Melbourne doctor, known for his
love of diamonds, is about to enter the silken
noose Mr. H. E. Lord is expected to arrive
shortly, passenger in the P. and O. mail
Lawn tennis finds favour in many country towns
at present. Maitland boat Singleton lately in a
public contest. At Armidale, there was a tourna-
ment for a prize given by Mr. Surveyor Chard,
when Misses Hogarth and Bray gained a victory
over the two Post Office belles....A few youthful
heroes once clubbed together to give a Bachelors’
Ball, and asked a gilded youth to join them.
“Well,” responded the sapient one, “I don’t mind
a pound or two, but 1 don’t believe in those
bachelors' balls. Give me a ball where there’s
plenty of girls!”.... A marriage is on the tapis be-
tween the doctor of a mail-boat and a well-known
young lady of Sydney. They met on the steamer
coming out, and decided not to part again At
the last Hobart levee, the Mayor of that town ap-
peared in a splendid new court costume, all richly
ornamented with lace ani cut steel buttons, and
a real sword. Surely our Mayor can have a gold
chain, now!....At the Albury banquet, not
colonial wines, but imported ones, were drunk.
When we don’t encourage ourselves, how can the
rest of the world ? A school lor Art Needlework
has been started in Melbourne by a lady who was '
instructor in the art at South Kensington school,
Loudon. It serves a double purpose: ladies can
learn the art thoroughly, as well as earn money at
it, and the general public can give orders for any
fancy work they desire, and it will be duly exe-
cuted.... A lady, writing to the Australasian,
proposes to cut the Gordian knot of servantgalism
by the employment of Hindoo domestic servants,
who, she guarantees, will give satisfaction for £2
10s. a year, and two suits of clothes. Their passage
costs about £l5, and they engage for five years. ..
There was a ball at Wodonga, too, at the time of
the federal fuss. 40 gentlemen present and 20
ladies Herald, July 2: “Frederick Atterton to
Julia Salt,” &c. Must have our little thoughtless
joke. That idea of somebody’s wife being turned
into a pillar of salt, always staggered us. Rather a
hard pill-er to swallow. But we cheerfully offer
to believe this Salt will turn into a first-rate wife.
We hope it will be a turn for the better—There
was a good Oddfellows’ ball in Wagga on Thurs-
day; and a masquerade ball at Wentworth the
Thursday before; a Government House ball at
Perth on June 28th; and one given by the Mayor
of Glenelg same night. Sir Arthur Palmer gives
one at Brisbane on the 13th July, in honour or tho
Queen’s Birthday... .The next Ladies’ Night of the
Liedertafel happens at the Protestant Hall on
Tuesday, 10th July, when visitors are particularly
requested to bo punctual, so as not to disturb the
singing. A cloak room is /provided at each en-
trance, and both doors will be open—The first
Ashfleld Assembly of this season took place in the
School of Arts last Friday, when a good gathering
of fair ones and their flatterers had an evening’s
first-class dancing. It was managed by a com-
mittee, and a capital spread was arranged by Com-
pagnoni London papers announce that Mr. G.
H. V. Jenkins, eldest son and heir of Mr. R. L.
Jenkins, of Nepean Towers, is engaged to Miss
Beatrice Mary, daughter of tho Hon. R. Herbert,
of Orleton, in Shropshire The Melbourne Cham-
ber of Manufacturers held their annual dinner
lust week, about 60 present ; Graham Berry
and Mirams made speeches, and John Woods
(of tar notoriety) made a scene To-
night (Thursday) the Australian Social Lodge
(260 1.C.) holds its fourth annual ball in the Town
Hall, and Messrs. Hillier and Young, who have
bten getting things ready, expect a capital attend-
ance. Entrance for vehicles is at the southern
gate. A good string band is engaged, and dancing
will start punctually at half-past eight— Mascotte
was the scene of a merry birthday party, given by
Mrs. Mannix to her daughter, on Monday. Dancing,
singing, and music whiled away tho fleeting hours.
Hostess and daughter were bright and busy in
their efforts to help the guests float light on the
airy sea of happiness. The only thing that marred
their attempt was the elegant supper—a thing
which never helps anyone to “ float light.” The
Sydney Private Assombly ball took place at Niths-
dale on Friday, and, to the soft music of an excel-
lent string band, a large attendance of fashionables
twirled till after one a.m. City Catering Co. tabled
the material luxuries, handsomo toilettes were
plentiful, and waltzes predominated on the pro-
gramme.... On Saturday afternoon, the anniver-
sary of the Redmyro Bowling Club brought a
large crowd of visitors to the club house, including
many ladies. Presentations to winners were made,
and band played ...The annual Telegraph picnic
eventuated on Saturday; at Correy’s, as usual.
Dinner and speeches, with sports afterwards. But
no ladies, also.as usual Grafton people entertain
Archibald Forbes at a complimentary picnic up
the Clarence to-morrow (Friday) Mr. J. R.
Lawson, son of tho George-street uphol-
sterer, who returned from home per Siam,
after two years’ absence, was banqueted by the
employes in Compagnoni’s rooms. Mr. James
Swallow was chairman, and Mr. A. Toby vice-
chairman. The usual toasts were attacked, and
a convivial evening spent by the company.
At Hamilton, N.S.W., Gibson and Tlioinas
ran 150 yards, £5O a side. Thomas won. Pcnno
beat O’Keefe at Homebush in a 100 yards’ spin, for
£lO a side. Gagen and Souter race at Homebush,
14th instant, 100 yards, lor £4\ Gagen conceding
two yards.
Bicyclists, and the less ambitious adepts
who drive three wheels, are preparing for the
forthcoming amateur race meeting of the Sydney
Bicycle Club, which is to be held on the Association
Ground on August 4. There are a lot of prizes
provided, besides the honour and the spills, so
that there will be distinction for every com-
petitor, from the spider-legged hero who fancies
himself for the ten-mile championship, to the
aspirant.
The South Melbourne Football Club has
sent over their trainer. Jinks, to put the final
polish on the team for the Sydney matches. Great
interest is centred in the combination match, to be
played on the Association Cricket Ground on the
14th instant. Most of the leading Melbourne clubs
now employ one or more trainers for the season.
Football has come to something in Victoria.
The Paris correspondent of the London
Times says:—“There is not a contemporary figure
of more intrinsic and imposing grandeur than Leo
XIII. In that vast and expansive intelligence no
narrow thought can enter. No one can better sift
the immutable in his dogma from what is capable
of transformation; and whenever Prussia has only
sacrifices to ask of him belonging to the domain
where his will does not come in collision with the
insurmountable barrier of dogma, Leo XIII. will
place his hand resolutely in the Chancellor's, and
the two men will be proud of meeting and acknow-
ledging each other.”
Some time ago Mr Ryan, otherwise
Chaplin, arrived at Hamilton, Vic., looking as in-
nocent as it was possible for him to do, and had
not been hero many hours before a match for £lOO
a-side was made between him and Neaves, who
had previously beaten Louis Watts in a hop, step,
and jump match. Ryan won the event easily, and
returning to Hamilton, took up his quarters at the
Criterion Hotel. Shortly after, a rumour got
about that another illustrious stranger had arrived,
and had expressed himself desirous of “clipping
that fellow Ryan’s wings.” This was Lawson, alias
Arnold, who put up at Host Ferguson’s, where
Ryan went to inspect him, “just to see what sort
of a fellow he is.” After some coquetting, a
match was arranged between the two, £5O a-side
was deposited, and great was the excitement.
However, for very excellent reasons, the race
didn’t come off. The pair are now at Bourke,
where, the other day, Chaplin easily raced away
from Combardello Billy. It is doubtless if in his
present fine form, there are many or any faster
men than Chaplin in Australia. He is probably
the best “all-round-man” in the colonies. Amongst
other exceptional feats, Chaplin will take level
money up to a good round sum that he jumps six
feet high, and a shade of odds that he can clear one
inch more in three tries. On a previous visit to
Bourke, for a wager of £2O, he absolutely walked
up to a jump of exactly sft. 10in.. and cleared it
without any apparent effort. With such prowess
as this, Chaplin should be a rich man at tony. For
any distance over the 100, Arnold can leave his
friend behind every yard. He has just returned
from Walgett, where he has vainly tried to arrange
a match with the blackfellow’s (Combardello
Billy’s, or some other name) backers. They, how-
ever, fought shy for some reason, notwithstanding
that the blackfellow has easily beaten everything
he has met of late, including some first-class men.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
are in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company, 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfahlert’s Hotel.
Here the manufacture of every essential in the
profession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
is a compact little factory where all the requisites
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, AdoH>he,
and the number, 18, tw® doors from Pfaklert’s
Hotel.—Ad vt.
Irate father: “ What, at it again, Johnny ?
always blubbering; you’re always ontheboohoo!”
Precocious Johnny: “And mother says you’re for
ever on the bo-ooze.”
The boy is father to the man,
Believe, we can’t but, choose:
As boy, ho “ boohoos ” all he can.
As man keep up the “ bo-ooze.”
George Gardiner was a tutor in the house
of Mr. Monckton, J.P., of Bradford. One day this
tutor, having no doubt worked his head off in
drilling into the idiotic young Monkies just such
Latin, Greek, and Sanscrit as the British snob exacts
from poor scholars, went to the cellar and helped
himself to a glass of beer. Mr. Monckton’s butler,
being duly on the alert in case of revolutionary
scholars trenching on his preserve, gave the British
Justice notice of the tragedy. And the scholarly
George was arraigned for stealing sixpen’orth of
beer. And Mr. Monckton sat on the bench, but,
says the cautious county newspaper, “took no
part in the proceedings.” Gardiner was sent to
gaol for six weeks. Now, after our experience of
the ways of judges, is it any marvel that we
wonder what “ taking no part ” means ? Over the
walnuts and the wine, with Messieurs the Justices
spending the evening in the house of Mr, Monck-
ton, J.P., we fancy the conclave of retired sugar-
sanders, and chalk-milk-waterers, holding their
glasses up to the light, and hearing the dismal tale
of sansculotteOm of the reprobate scholar. And we
also recall the scenes so well caricatured in Field-
ing, where the needy curate (the schoolmaster of
those days) by sufferance receives his half-pint of
ale, and some cold meat with the servants—and im-
plores God’s blessing over it. The transaction is
iike cutting out a slice from an old geological
formation. It shows that the old estimate of
learning was no caricature, as far as the English
squires r notions wont. But it also furnishes the
reason why tho most violently democratic men in
Russia, Franco, and Germany aro also scholars.
When knowledge is brought to the stocks, is it any
wonder that knowledge allies itself with violence,
and will prefer the chance product of chaos to tho
smug selfishness of an old and ignorant age ?
Department of Mines,
Sydney, Ist June, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR MINERAL
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees exeoute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Mineral Leases within
thirty days from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
No. 1583; W. Braddon; Portion No. 15; County
of Hardings, parish of Swinton; 20 acres; Appli-
cation Tingha 630.
No. 1584; J. F. Ross; Portion No. 500; County of
Gough, parish of Herbert; 20 acres; Application
No. Tingha 641.
No. 1587; D. Dougherty and others; Portion No.
125; County of Gough, parish of Clive; 20seres;
Application No. Tingha 644.
No. 1585; Ah Chong; Portion No. 20; County of
Hardinge, parish of Swinton; 20 acres; Application
No. Tingha 042.
No. 1.580; D. Dougherty and others; Portion No.
124; County of Gough, parish of Clive; 20 acres;
Application No. Tingha 643.
No. 1608; Chen Qun Jock; Portion No. 223;
County of Hardinge, parish of Cope's Creek; 20
acres; Application No. Tingha 638.
No. 1601; W. Bailey and another; Portion No. 153;
County of Hardinge, parish of Swinton; 20 acres;
Application No. Tingha 651.
No. 1606; G. R. Fcarby and another; Portion Nos.
98 & 99; County of Hardinge, parish of Swinton; 40
acres; Application No. Tingha 653.
No. 1011; 8. M. Swinton and another; Portion
No. 75; County of Hardinge, parish of Swinton;
20 acres: Application No. Tingha 601.
No. 1613; S. W. Moore; Portion No. 101; County
of Hardinge, parish of Swinton; 20acres; Applica-
tion No. Tingha 664.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Masonic Ball, I.C. (Town Hall) July 5
Newcastle R.C. Ball July 5
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) July 6
Leidertafel Ladb s’ Night (Proteslant Hall). July 10
Balmain R.C. Ball (Town Hall) July 13
Thistle Club Ball (Protestant Hall) July 13
Sydney Bicycle Club Sports Aug. 4
Windsor Masonic Ball Aug. 23
o
<c
o?
m
rfIHE “GREAT BONANZA” CLUB CONSUL-
X TAT lON
on the
MELBOURNE CUP, 1883,
To be run about the end of October.
Capital £7500. Divided into 150,000 Shares at Is
each. 500 Prizes Guaranteed.
To bo distributed as follows:
First Horse .. .. £lOOO | 10 Prizes of £lOO, £lOOO
Second Horse .. 500 20 Prizes of £5O, £lOOO
Third Horse.. .. 250 | 40Prizes of £25, £lOOO
Starters divide .. 500 1100 Prizes of £lO, £lOOO
Non-starters divide 250 | 200 Prizes of £5, £lOOO
21 Tickets for £l. Not le3S than 5 Tickets sent to
any single address. Send P.O. Order or Bank
Notes. If coin be enclosed, please register letter.
If Stamps are sent, add exchange at the rate Is in
the £l. Exchange should also be added to cheques.
Please enclose 3d extra for Membership Fee. No
charge for reply or result. Drawing will positively
take place on or before the 25th October, and will
be conducted before a Committee of Shareholders.
Tickets promptly sent by return post, and results
posted immediately after drawing. Prospectuses
forwarded. Enclose an addressed envelope un-
stamped.
Address: “Bonanza,” care of J. Thomas, 20
Swanston-street, Melbourne.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, sth June, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOII GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of the
undermentioned Gold-mining Leases within
thirtydays from this date, they will be de-
clared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Lachlan Mining District.
No. 112; D. M'Donald; Portion No. 7; County of
Ashburnham, parish of Collett; 5 acres; Applica-
tion No. Cargo 26.
No. 113; Joseph Dillon and others; Portion No.
16; County of Ashburnham, parish of Collett; 5
acres; Application No. Cargo 28.
No. 114; Joseph Dillon and others; Portion No. 0;
County of Ashburnham, parish of Collett; 5 acres;
Application No. Cargo 29.
No. 115; C. H. F. White and others; Portion No 8;
County of Ashburnham, parish of Collett 5 acres;
Application No. Cargo 37.
Department of Mines,
Sydney, 89th June, 1883.
NOTICE TO APPLICANTS FOR GOLD-MINING
LEASES.
NOTICE is hereby given that unless the
Lessees execute and take delivery of
the undermentioned Gold-mining Leases
within thirty days from this date, they will
be declared void.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Southern District.
No. 72-455: H. Saxby and W. R. Reynolds; Por-
tion No. l. ll; County of King, parish of Cullarin;
4 acres; Application No. 72-455.
Lachlan Mining District.
No. 121; W. Meads and another; Portion 90;
County of Harden, parish of Cumbamurra; 3
acres; Application No. Young 82-3.
Bathurst Mining District.
No. 211; R. Owen and others; Portion No. L. 65;
County of Bathurst, parish of Dunleary; 2a. 3r.
25p.; Application No. Carcoar 70.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
23riclr±ield- Hill-
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
pf" These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
Ladies residing
Curtains. If
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Hailway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
■w
fx
EL*?**
&
■A*
m
2a
5*
v«-
*<&
L*«&
S£
?<& >#*?
/V
IMI *<&
i^'i'iuui.i.gr.'^.s^N
vsew/V
\
i'j?
<»<HHil|»|l|l
2j<7v 7 / J>
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:-
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
| LACE CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. (lace CURTAINS I
yw Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Aii unusual scene took place the other
day In Rome. Pope Pius IX.’s effects wore sold by
auction as if the family were completely ruined,
and were trying to make the utmost penny by a
great name," wheroas the smallest missal should
have been kept a sacred family relic for ever-
‘ What have you to say for yourself?”
asked the presiding magistrate of a female who
was charged with drunkenness at one of the subur-
ban police courts in Melbourne. “ Please, your
‘Honor,’” replied the bilious lady, “I was at the
Salvation Army meeting last night, or I would not
be hero now ”
In Vioi oria the cause of a rational Sunday
is espoused by the Akgus and the Age, while the
side of Pharisaism is supported by the rusty
artillery of the DT. On one side, intellect,
culture, and manhood; on the other, hypocrisy,
bigotry, and masculine petticoatlsm. Mesd.lines
Chad band and Stiggins have high pattens and big
mops, but the wave of public opinion will be
what the Atlantic was to Mrs. Partington. Now
verrnnu.
The infant son of a Grenfell squatter was
about to die, and a R.C. priest was called in to per-
form the rite of baptism. But, when the eccle-
siastic discovered that a Protestant lady was to be
the godmother of the dying child, he refused to
perform the ceremony. Whereupon the Infants,
father told the father of the church that ‘ he was
too well paid and fed, or he wouldn’t display such
contemptible bigotry." Eventually, a C.E. min-
ister performed the required rite.
The Melbourne D.T. is the only paper in
that city which stands by the parsons in their cry
for a cold, cheerless. Puritanical Sawbath. This
consumptive production, which was started for
the purpose of enlightening the working man, cries
out for the closing of the Museum at all cost on the
Lord’s day, and its new line of holy war has given
a temporary flicker of life to a one-lunged consti-
tution. When the parsons are quietly rolled up,
and the public of Melbourne have all their institu-
tions open, the D.T. will silently go under.
Stockwhip Kelly, on the dying out of the
aboriginal before the missionary, raises a question
which the missionary will find it difficult to
answer. And the missionary can’t avoid the
question by asking “ Am I my brother’s keener,’
when it’s his special line to pose as his (black)
brother’s special protector, guide, philosopher, and
friend. The missionaries (says Kelly), compass sea
and land to make one proselyte, and when he is
compassed they either make him twofold more the
child of hell than thenuelves, or rub him out—an t
Kelly’s not much out of it.
The Maitland Mercury considers that if
Sunday concerts are allowed, a State censorship of
stage and platform will be indispensable. But
what can a State censor do ? He can only prohibit
immoral entertainments, and for that purpose we
have a censorship already. A concert or lecture
that is plainly immoral may be stopped at any
time, and if such things are wrong at any time,
they are no less wrong on Sunday. The only
censorship possible is public opinion. Public
opinion has shown its censorship by pretty well de-
serting the churches, and public opinion will
refuse to be dictated to by a handful of fanatics as
to how the people shall spend their Sundays.
Melbourne Punch writes thus about the
Hon. C. H. Bromby Bromby, the apostate, has
been considerably sold over that little Town Hall
business. He thought he had managed it so nicely
undercover of a name on which he is doing his
best to bring disgrace, but the wily Patterson, on
the look out for Protestant votes, was one too
many for the renegade. The Mayor made him a
very pretty little speech, and we trust he enjoyed
it It is bad enough to put up witn balderdash
about Ireland and Catholicism when it proceeds
from a native-born traitor, but when it is forced
upon us by a whitewashed Paddy and pervert, it is
too. too sickening. He is going to bring an action
because ho was not allowed to spout sedition in the
civic palace. Let him, and much good may the
damages do him and his cause.”
Bishop Selwyu, addressing an audience
over in Victoria, the other day, remarked that
“ seme people said the natives of the islands were
savages, but he doubted that very much, haying
read of crimes in the colonies and in England, which
were of such enormity that they were unknown
there.” In the face of this statement, we should
like to know what excuse can be made for scoop-
ing up collections every other week to christianise
the heath* n. If Bishop Selwyn is right-aa, of
course, we believe him to be —then it would be
mo e to the glory of God to heathenize the Chris-
tian. For our own part we shall be willing at any
time, to contribute to a fund for bringing Poly-
nesian missionaries over here to convert us. W e
shall first stipulate, however, that they shall not be
allowed to sell rum. That is the privilege of the
white proselytizers.
A Dunedin (N.Z.) parson, Rev. Fitohett,
lately publicly criticised the Salvation Army. He
savs to the hundreds of young women who were
present at the ”Sulvation tea” in the Garrison
Hall, for factory girls, seamstresses, and domestic
servants, that the Army meetings have brought
nightly scenes of excitement, late hours, and a
new codo ol easy and sympathetic rela ions with
a corresponding number of young men. It is
true that nil this is supposed to be under the
sanction and guardianship of religion, but no one
acquainted with the history of religious excite-
ments, and their tendency when not controlled to
run into a particular form of immorality, will see
much ground for reassurance in that. The truth
is, that the Army has been perverted from the
simplicity of its original mission, which was that
of evangelising the classes not reached by existing
Church agencies.
General Booth’s latest is a ‘‘freeand easy,”
assisted by his wife and daughter. Big Ben, a
Yorkshire' lighting man, obliged with ‘The Devil
and me, we can’t agree,” which was much appre-
ciated. It is not much good for anyone to address
a Salvation crowd, unless he has been a prize-
fighter, or a wife-beater, or a burglar. They are
the only kind of orators the audience care to listen
to If the speaker hasn’t been a “ regular fearer
at, wickedness, he is of no account at all. In the
London Standard of April 18, is an account of a
“long all-night” meeting in a circus, the chief
portion of the service consisting of ‘‘creeping for
lesuB" In order to show their utter humility, the
salvation seekers—of all ages, sexes, and characters
—crawled round on the floor for two hours, in
complete darkness, the gas having been purposely
turned off. When these methods of seeking salva-
tion are adopted, it is scarcely surprising to hear
of a girl summoning a pious lieutenant for assault.
The Encyclical of Leo XIII. to Cardinal
M‘Cabe, summarised, reads in this wise:—lreland
in a lix. Grievous oppression on one hand; on the
other, perplexing agitation running many into
turbulent courses. Catholic bishops did well to
exhort moderation. So long as Kingdom of God
and His justice be first sought, it is lawful for the
Irish to contend for their rights; but justice is not
to be found in secret societies, which, under pre-
text of vindicating right, end in violent disturb-
ance of the public peace. It is for the bishops to
exhort all Irishmen, by the holiness of the Catholic
name, and by the very love of their country, to
have nothing to do with secret societies, which are
powerless to obtain what the people nghtlj ask,
and too often impel to crime those who have been
bred by their allurements. It isfortheyounger
clergy to be obedient to episcopal authority. The
statesmen who preside over British Imperial affairs
will give satisfaction to the Irish when they de-
mand what is just.
A deputation who waited on the Archbishop
of Canterbury from the Church Defence Associa-
tion, presenting a petition from 13,650 clergy
‘‘ against the removal of the name of the Supreme
Deltv ” from the House of Commons declaration,
as proposed in the Affirmation Bill, must have been
rather surprised at. their answer. The Archbislioj),
while declining to go fully Into the matter, said
ho must express his conviction that the absence of
any formula would not necessarily imply unbelief,
just as upon admission to the cure of souls m our
own times a declaration has been placed m the
mouth of tho curate instead of the oath. It was
by a declaration that the clergyman repudiated the
crime of simony; by a declaration that ho signified
his assent to the Thirty-nine Articles and the Book
of Common Prayer, and also acknowledged his
obligation to use no other form of worship than
that in tho Book of Common Prayer; and, again,
supposing that by any means the words of the oath
were removed from the declaration made on enter-
ing Parliament, he should be the last to admit that,
after that moment, Parliament had lost ite Chris-
tian character, or could bo less called on than now
t > handle public questions in a religious and Chris-
tian spirit.
The Auckland Free Library have just re-
ceived from England 39 volumes of the works of
Swedenborg. We have read 38 of them, and it is
to the speculations of that philosopher that we
attribute our clear views on the condition of the
dead. They are nice, popular reading, and we can
conceive of no greater pleasure than to retire into
the country with a pocket edition of say 100
volumes of his work. Prom his own system, we
gather that he is now up in the seventh heaven.
He had a fair time in the first six, but he tore him-
self away from the frivolous enjoyments current
in the lower heavens, and went up higher. He
saw nothing in the everlasting twanging of harps,
and strolling about golden streets. So he chipped
ofT enough of the kerbing to pay for the trip, and,
employing two sturdy angels, went up to No. 7.
His occupation at this time consists chiefly in
reading over his own works, and working out cir-
culating decimals. At last reports he was calcu-
lating a decimal to a million places, with a view to
measure eternity ; and the only amusement he
takes is in instigating mankind to read his works.
His followers assert that a new Edition is forth-
coming, edited by himself, and that he will shortly
lower liimself down here by a piece of string, and
start to hawk his books.
One of the blessings that follow in the
wake of Christianity is undoubtedly brandy. And
the brandy is none the worse lor being dispensed
to the benighted savage by a Wesleyan local
preacher. And it is not deteriorated by being dis-
pensed at 10s. a bottle on Sundays. One Maori in
N.Z. grew sick of the theology of his fathers, and
went up to tho penitent form at a revival meeting.
He found salvation in less time than any other man
in the room, and bragged as much. Ihe mission-
aries drilled him in catechism. He became a burn-
ing and shining light in class and prayer meetings,
and ultimately was appointed a local preacher.
His ministrations were marked by a fine fervour,
and the work of the Lord prospered in his hands.
Now came the opportunity. He had banished lhe
blanket of his fathers, and clad his regenerated
frame in broadcloth. By strict attention to the
collection-box, he was enabled to add to his
spiritual gifts a choice collection of Hennesse3's
brandy; and on the Sabbath, after exhorting the
brethren, he would tip the wink, and begin busi-
ness. One half-sovereign was his price for a
bottle; and if he didn’t succeed in converting his
aboriginal friends, he at least made them drunk.
He was caught, and fined £3B for this. That’s how
enterprise is checked in these days.
’Tis abundantly evident that the published
reasons given to the Victorian Premier bv the
Rev. Mr. Paton (a retired gospeller living in com-
fort at Kew) why the New Hebrides should be
annexed by the Imperial authorities are put for-
ward at the instigation of the cocounut-oil mission-
aries. As a sample of his mealy-i#-uthed white-
chokerism take this little hiccup: ‘’All the men
and all t e money (over £14000) used in civilizing
and Christianising the New Hebrides have been
British. Now fourteen missionaries ..... and
about fifteen native evangelists and teachers are
employed in the above work on this group, in
which over £6OOO yearly of British and Br tish-
colonial money is expended. And certainly it
would be unwise to let any other Power now take
possession and reap the truits of all this British
outlay.” Of course it would, Mr. Paton. loure
pretty fat on the real British gospel, you are,
sirree! £6OOO per annum of Uritisn coin spent
there! For what, brother? To improve ihe
nigger off the face of the airth as has been done in
Tasmania! But this pat ’un also thinks that
Britain should go for tho New Hebrides because
there are 70,000 Hebrideans awaiting the gospel.
Let ’em want. They’ll be more hybrideans when
they’ve got it. That’s so. Let us prey I
If the Queen doesn’t go straight to heaven
when she dies, money must be no consideration up
there. The Dean of Windsor is paid £3OOO a year to
smooth Her Majesty’s path, and gets perks
besides. £350 is his fee for a funeral. This makes
dying very expensive. He also gets £5OO a year
for keeping spare bedroon s in his house (which
he has rent free, of course), for Hoys 1 chaplains
and other theological swells, who come to Windsor
for ceremonies. The Deanery is a most delightful
house, comfortably and well-arranged inside, and
with a terrace commanding one of the finest views
in England; while beneath, on a level with the
slopes, in the Queen’s private grounds, the Dean
has a large and prettily-arranged garden, where
Dr. and Mrs. Wellesley used to give afternoon
parties. The work is very light, for the Dean has
four Canons (each £lOOO a year), and four minor
Canons (each £300), to assist him in doing the
chapel duty—perhaps the closest approximation to
doing nothing obtainable in these days, for, of
course, Her Majesty’s sou) needs no saving. This
recalls tho indignant surprise of the I rench noble-
man before the Revolution, who on being re-
monstrated with by an eccentric priest, haughtily
remarked that “the Almighty would never have
the bad taste to damn a man of his rank.
Thus a correspondent anent Mrs. Hatnp-
son:—“For weeks past she baa numbered her
daily and nightly audiences by thousands, and this
in the face of the counter attractions ol the regu-
lar churches, and of the regular shows. Dr. Moor-
house cannot do it, Mr. Strong connot do it, the
Very Rev. Father in God, Prior Butler, cannot do
it. the Revs. Clark, Menzies, and Jones, in their
palmiest days, could not do it—wherein, then, lies
the wonderful influence - f this woman. She is
handsome, but not very young; she is not well-
educated, she is not even eloquent; and yet she
draws crowds together such as have never before
been assembled by any man or woman in Aus-
tralia. It may be vril force, or it may be animal
magnetism, or it may be Heaven-knows-what; but
it is altogether unexplicable and marvellous. Let
all parßons look from their empty pews to the seeth-
ing masses which nightly crowd Melbourne Town
Hall to suffocation, and read the riddle if they can
—it is above the comprehension of ordinary lay-
men. I heard her this morning, and her words are
tingling in my ears as I write; and when she can
thus affect an old pressman, whose heart has been
hardened by the cant of religion for more years
than he would care to mention, what a spell she
must throw over the imagination of tnose
have been less exposed to the wickedness or this
world!
A Tasmanian correspondent writes thus to
the N.S.W. Liberal:— “H*’ the late prosecution
for obscene literature in Launceston, just fancy
them suppressing Dr. Trail’s ‘ Sexual Physiology,
and ‘Maria Monk.’ It is thought by many that
the Popish party have had much to do with it, on
account of ‘ Maria Monk,’ ‘ Woman, Priest, and
Devil,’ and ‘ Woman and the Concessional, which
Osborne publicly advertised for sale. The Super-
intendent of Police, who had the books seized, is a
Roman Catholic. The real fact of the matter is it
being a ‘ Freethought Bookshop.’ Tins being the
case, Protestants and Catholics are allied to put it
down, and they have (in my opinion) only made
the 4 Obscene Literature * a pretext for action.
Not content with destroying the books, they have
siven Osborne three months. Mr. W. B. Button,
,P .is talking about having a pamphlet printed
on the subject, and he is going to write to the
Attorney-General about it.” The so-called Free-
thought” booksellers have, in our opinion, much
to answer for. Freethought doesn’t necessarily
mean free-love, any more than it means filth and
ururiency in general; yet at almost every so-called
“Freethought” book-shop you liud exposed for
sale publications which arc a great deal more
filthy than they are scientific. Perhaps the reason
is that the “ Freethought ” bookseller finds science
and philosophy, properly so-called, don t pay. The
man who leaves the paths of orthodoxy by reason
of the impressions produced on his mind by Tom
Paine and Voltaire, may still be good and true and
moral. But the individual who habitually buys
and gloats over such books as Maria, Monk mid
“ Bexual Physiology,” is and must be filthy-minded,
and is not a fit associate for even a leprous China-
man. And the bookseller who gets his living bv
the sale of such publications should be flogged.
“ Maria Monk ’’ &c., are openly exposed for sale in
a dozen shops in Sydney.
Mrs. Hampson, who for the last couple of
months has turned out In a goodly
number of hysterical females, and who, before her
•* mission ” Is finished, will have earned the un-
feigned thanks of all the doctors of Collins-street,
and the curses of the men whose female relatives
have been worked up into religious mania, has
been doing a wholesale pray. She has been pray-
ing for gambling ministers of religion, and was
thanked publicly by the Rev. Mr. Campbell, who
stated that he was "within fifteen minutM of
hell, and was saved by her prayers. She has been
praying for the three hundred profane labourers
who are engaged in demolishing Kensington Hill,
but who have declined in bad English, though in
good taste, the proffered compliment. She has in
fact pray, a for everybody, and has not forgotten
the Press of Melbourne in her supplications. She
made a special intercessory effort with Heaven on
behalf of the staff of the Melbourne Herald,
who, to our own personal knowledge, really want
praying for very Dadly. George Arthur Walstab,
the editor, is by no means a saint—never has been;
the eminent Mr. Joseph Geary, author of the
aphorism, “ If ever a man wants to sell you a horse
cheap, ask him why,” is not at all likely to go to
Heaven suddenly in the Harmy’s fiery van: Jem
Middleton, the head of the reporting staff, is, we
are sorry to have to say, like Brodzky, a most be-
nighted heathen; and if you want to hear ingeni-
ous, forcible, and protracted blasphemy, you
should go to the composing room when the
"formes” are late, and Winter is giving a bit of
his mind to Bannon. It will be observed that we
have said nothing about the moral condition of the
Police Court reporters, who are, from an evan-
gelical standpoint, very bad hats indeed. The
other day, after Mrs. Hampson had prayed for
Sam Winter and the staff, "an Ardent Be-
liever ” communicated the fact in writing to
Samuel, who in acknowledging, through the me-
dium of a foot-note, the interest taken by the lady
in the spiritual welfare of the staff, rudely disil-
I unionised the ardent one as to the benefit of her
prayers in inducing the Herald to give more
attention to religious subjects. The fact was, re-
marked S.V.W., that the Herald was a newspaper
which attended to everything, from sermons and
revivals to divorce cases and dog fights. We want
Mrs. Hampson to come to Sydney and pray for the
editor of the Holy Howl. She might at the same
time ask Mumbo to send Alfred a better class of
ink, and try to arrange for a little more go in the
Herald leaders, for the suppression of six-column
muffin-worry reports, for the poll-axeing of the
persons who write the Witness, and for the deifi-
cation of John Davies.
* • *
Mr. Martin Hoskins, town missionary,
Ballarat, thus:—" I do believe that there are minis-
ters of religion at the present day—men who are
supposed to be shining lights-ignoring temper-
ance. In the morning, before they go to service,
they must have whisky and milk: if they go to a
wedding, they take drink; and they even go into
bar parlours and take intoxicating liquors. Now,
what Sydney cleric is there who can lay his hand
upon his heart and say that he has nover.drank
whisky and milk?... Professor Strong, of Mel-
bourne University, has given great offence jto the
Catholic members of the Ballarat Mechanics Insti-
tute. The professor delivered a lecture last.week,
and introduced matter which ridiculed the reli-
gious practices of the Catholic denomination.
Professor Strong was a great friend of Sit John
O’Shanassy!... .The choir boys at St. Andrews are
to have cassocks, a gentleman having provided
tho needful Ellis D The Weekly ADVOCATE is
wroth with the Premier Decause he examined the
Central police court on a Sunday, and says he
ought to be fined ss....Protestant Standard
says the bible has elevated the blackfellows. To
heaven? Braidwood Sabbatarians beaten last
week. Public reading-room not te be closed . ..H.
S. Smythe says that Mrs. Hampson, the Evangelist,
can give out a hymn as well as the Rev. Charles
Clark Mr. William Thomas, of Islington, has
challenged Mr. Charles Bright to debate on the
subject of "The Bible v. Science.” The Deity is
no doubt very anxious to know what Mr. William
Thomas, of Islington, thinks upon the matter. If
He does not stand well in the opinion of Mr. Wil-
liam Thomas, of Islington, where is He ? What is
the use of creating worlds, if Mr. William Thomas,
of Islington, doesn’t approve of them ?
* * *
Felix Oswald, lu the Popular Science
Monthly, says, in opposition to Buckle, that
fanaticism is not the result, but the cause of
ignorance ... At London Central Criminal Court a
member of the Peculiar People, who follow out
the Bible injunctions in cases of sickness, and
refuse to call in a doctor, was brought up for trial
for manslaughter, in allowing his child to die or
bronchitis by applying no other remedy than
prayer. The grand jury, however, appearing to
think that he was bound to obey his Bible, ignored
the bill, and he was discharged .. . From the Wll ts-
Gloucestershlre Standard, of April 7th last :
On Monday, at Bath, William Joseph Powell, cap-
tain of the Bath Salvation Army, was o.dered by
the magistrates to pay 3s. 6d. a week for 16 years
towards the support of the illegitimate child of a
girl whom he had seduced. He was also ordered
to pay 10s. 6d. the midwifo’s fee, two guineas the
solicitor's fee, and two guineas to the complainant
for incidental expenses.... Meetings were, during
May, held throughout India, to protest against an
alleged outrage upon Hindoo religious sentiment
bv Judge Norris, in ordering an idol to be produced
in court. In Calcutta, over 15,000 Hindoos, Mahom-
medans, and Rajpoots, assembled, and adopted
memorials to the yueen.
"A LEAP IN THE DARK.”
I know not if a Heaven there be,
Or if a fiery Hell;
Through the dim space I cannot see,
Nor aught of Future tell.
But this I know, there is a land
Whore God takes true men by the hand.
I have no faith in idle Creeds —
I scorn the bigot. Sect:
Can aught that vile dissension breeds
Be from God’s hand direct ?
I know not all, but this I know,
Religion oft is God’s chief foe.
I rest my hope not on the dreams
That cloud the frenzied mind,
Nor on harsh Dogma that oft teems
With chains that free souls bind.
I take it, God would have us bo
True men, erect, unbound, and free.
I hold that not “ brimstone and fire,”
Nor yet cold prison bars.
Are means by which God would inspire
Hate of wnat His Truth mars.
God never meant that cruel chains
Should form our heaven-wing d chariot s reins-
So, though I know not aught of Heaven,
Nor yet of awful Hell,
I know to Creed it ne’er was given
Free souls to buy and sell.
If our God’s worship be not free.
As slaves we’ll but blasphemers be.
And here I tell those who would thrust
Down free men’s throats their creeds,
Their gilded faith is Devil's dust—
Their laws suoh as Hell breeds!
While Saints eleot themselves they deem,
By word and deed they God blaspheme!
la Massachusetts, Mrs. Davis served a pro-
hibition on a hotel-keeper named Doyle, against
serving her husband with liquor. Doyl* served
Davis soon afterwards, and Davis got his legs cut
off, while drunk, by a locomotive. Mrs. Davis
claimed damages from the publican, and got a
verdict, confirmed by two courts, for £loQ0, for
loss of her support. Several States have similar
laws.
REMEMBER THIS,
IF YOU ARE SICK,
i If you are sick, HOP BITTERS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails. . ,
if you are comparatively well, but feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach er bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
Ft
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints. ...
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
.eeß, Nervousness, you will flDda “Balm
,n Gilead " In the üße of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a reeident
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries —malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains and aches, and
foel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, the
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomaeh, Bowels, Blood, Liver,
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
JBSOO
will be paid for a case they will not cure
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That poor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer?
deanse r Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
id you will have no sickness or suffering or doo-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHA
531
George St., Sydney.
Palace of Fashion
and Art.
“ The Apparel oft proclaims the Han.”
MR. J. GRAHAM has recently returned from
a Special
BUSINESS TOUR
la the United States and Europe (London, Paris,
Berlin, &e.), and has arranged for the introduction
per eaeh Mail Steamer of the
Newest, Costliest, and Most Fashionable
CLOTHING- MATERIAL,
simultaneously with their introduetion by the
fashionable Houses of London and Paris, &o.
CLOTHING Is made up at the shortest notice by
the best talent In Australia and London, and exact
reproductions of London and Paris Fashions in
Art and Material guaranteed.
B&llreom and Bridal Outfits, and Evening Dress
Suits, in a style unequalled or unsurpassed.
Mr J. Graham speaks through the Press to the
gentlemen In the most distant parts of the interior.
Prompt attention and Advice given in matters of
Dress, Style, fee., with instructions for measure-
ment, free of cost, and the best and most satisfac-
tory results guaranteed.
tST For the preteetion of the Public, the name
GRAHAM and the figures 531 are of mammoth
dimensions—the largest on any establishment in
all Australia.
fST" The Fashionable World of Australia and
the great middle class of the cities and towns as
well, are requested to continually note the an-
nouncements in this column, from
J. GRAHAM, Tailor,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-^•ILCO!
AND
GIBBS
Automatio
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
„ wring ea, £4 IQ
MANGLES,
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shellers
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Wamctjt
Wood,
&o. &c. &o.
hebblewhite &CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.


*3OOO
For 2s. «d.
£3OOO
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for H ALF-A-CRO WN•
ThG “GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the Oth November.
Dm i Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
a/, , 1 ? Never before attempted, is the property of
riwmi. Company with responsible directors
A mfAL: £lO.OOO. divided into 80.000 Share
Also,
£lO,OOO, divided into 80,000 Shares of
2s. 6d. each.
40 Prizes at £25
£3OOO
1000
500
500
250 I
1000 I Total
send 9 tickets for a pound.
100
200
750
do.
do.
do.
£lOOO
0 .. 1000
5 .. 1000
1 .. 750
..£lO,OOO
Not less
as foiio^.g er rizes guaranteed, and distributed
$ horse .
V? u orse • •
Stn ]* orse • •
divide
20PH tarters (io -
at £5O
than e «»t hall sen -
chem'i Sent to any single address. Send P. O. order,
"Yni ~,e or Lank notes. If stamps are sent, add
coin i the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
for s ? n t. register letter. Please send 3d. extra
Th Go , mtjer ship.
and wm?; win Biwill take place on the Ist November,
hoiiWo c °nducted by a committee of 150 Share-
""’ill h “ rawn from the entire body. The result
and posted to all Shareholders immediately,
advertised throughout the oolonies.
\v •, Tickets sent by return post.
v n te at once for prospectus. No charge.
r _„ „ Address—“VlCTOßY,”
are of George Robertson, 94 Bourke-street,
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
X* Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
«ETTv£Ri£ You with the “PAINLESS COHN
Prism* ,» write direct to the Registered Pro-
Anstrai . 0 W GI forward a bottle to all parts »f
ust ralasia, Post Free, for 2s. 6d.
Address.—JOHN CLOWES,
_ One Mile Creek, Gympie.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
Fo »LER’S pottery and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
Xj A MaSCOTTE CONSULTATIONS,
Metropolitan, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
Mnfj'npolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ...
‘Bourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10s. each
£2500
£5OOO
Vi ‘J
Ist p? etr °Poli
2nV lorse
3rd ’’
fetew...
r, ’ho S, u C M 3 on ap P li
f -if;i r ' ja Mascotte C 0.,,,,.,.,.,
*° r aon B or t* n previous consultations, and hopes
tmuanoe ° r their patronage for this pro-
a!;;;! lotion, by letter only.
M lc ants please state for which event.
D. LINDO,
. Box 723, P.O. ;
Eastway’s Hotel, King-street, Sydney.
lieation.
W. H. PALING,
352 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianofortes^
Pianofortes,
% th e f Pianofortes.
blowing renowned English, French, and
jjj'a.t't} German Makers
®Vrl Aucher
Ronisch
Hnndt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schiedmayer
Challen & Son
Ecke
& Sons
And]
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Horz
Schweehten
Schwander,
Forster
Oho . ~** u num erous other Manufacturers.
>.
hc.n^A'rrJ-®? 1,1 ' 1 & Co., Palace Organ Company;
Aw‘ & fv? & Co., Peloubert, and others.
oth„ 8 - Celebrated Organs, besides other
er ® at nVi First and Special Prize over all
jj G r6Cont Sydney Exhibition.
***** by Alexander & Co., etc.
Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
}&% to IMPORTANT NOTICE.
W ‘‘ s es, n ’' • A. P. s. removal to those immense
door, lately occupied by Prince,
1 v*-Eiiitn £Present Magnificent Stock will be
Vr U CCE£) PRICES at
' a , H • PALING’S,
gegrge street.
Mar
Ah S t T °UT. TN* fav
&S r biS, eted with gre »
H’llV l bfi Uin *iessi VlUg ? the oeh . '«
l «>4 a t C ° h '’ Dubli. ■ ar
At CO s^i 1 °. bo 1
Sole Agents.
JOHN DANKS,
IMPORTER OP
Bicycles ul Tricycles
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
" Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under
FLOWER STANDS, for holding- flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
andahs, and conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screening lime,
Cvel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
es to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing- stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries an,d
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK mado on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STREET.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
BULL-DOG ALE. -IT is not the' clearness
or condition alone ill BULL-DOU ALE
that preserves this i rand first in public
estimation. Common tetter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous cha: acter, the fullness on
the palate, and the great keeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG . CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
A* GORMAN,
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Invercll,
HAS OPENED THE
‘ ClarerLdon,’
Corner of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a first-class Hotel,
A. G. hopes, by strict attention to Business, to
gain a share of their PATRONAGE. VISITORS
will find this surpasses most of the loading
HOTELS for ACCOMODATION and every CON-
VENIENCE ; and, as it overlooks HYDEPARK.it
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
It is not necessary to mention the quality of the
WINES, SPIRITS, BEERS, &c. &e„ as he is, and al-
ways has been, noted throughout the COLONIES
for selling nothing but the very best.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 15th June, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR GIRLS, SYDNEY.
APPLICATIONS will be received at this office
for the position of HEAD MISTRESS in the
above School. Salary, £4OO a year.
All applications must be in writing, and accom-
panied by testimonials as to qualifications and
character, and must be sent in on or before the
9th proximo.
It is to be understood that the engagement may
be terminated on either side after three months’
notice, dated from the beginning of a quarter.
G. MILLER,
Acting Undcr-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 15th June, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR BOYS, SYDNEY.
APPLICATIONS will be received at this office
for the position of HEAD MASTER in the
above School. Salary, £OOO a year.
All applications must be in writing, and accom-
panied by testimonials as to qualifications and
character, and must be sent in on or before the
9th proximo.
It is to be understood that the engagement may
be terminated on either side after tlireo months’
notice, dated from the beginning of a quarter.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.
P. R. LARKIN,
IMPORTER OP WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Department,
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stoek of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, personally
selected hy the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore coniidently recommend
the quality and hy charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit a shard of then-
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PALE BRANDY.
Per Bottle,
s d
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top • ■
Hennessy’s V.O. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***)
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale
Pine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) ..
Marteu's Blue Label (*)
Flasks
Halt-flasks
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart .. .. ~ .. 6s and
2s 3d and
5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) .. ..6 6
Martell’s Very Old *** 6 6
Martell’s Old 5s and 4 0
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. ..50
Flasks 2s 6d and 2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good
Better
Still Better
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart
No. 2, „
No. 3, „
No. 4,
Flasks
..2 0
..2 6
..3 0
6s and 5 0
..4 6
..4 0
3s and 3 6
Is i)d and 2 6
JAMAICA RUM.
FADE.
Yery Finest 4 0
Red Heart 4 6
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart .. ..5 0
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s6dnnd 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy quarts 2 6
Ettamogah, red ~ 2 6
„ Muscat .... . „ 26
„ Reisling ~ 2 6
Fallon’s Shiraz .". .. •• •• 2 6
„ „ pints 1 6
PORT WINE. Per Bottle.
s d
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Celebrated Four Diamond
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape
No. **** ■ .. .. ...
No! ***
No. ** „
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
..6 6
..4 0
..6 0
..5 0
... 4 0
... 3 0
... 2' 6
... 3 6
6 0
4 0
3 0
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry) ...
Fine Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial q uart
BRITISH WINES.
... 6 6
... 6 6
... 6 0
... 4 0
... 3 0
5 0
4 0
3 0
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine 2 6
Orange Wine 2 6
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s *** 5 0
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by ,Burke ... 4 !»
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L ... ... 4 0
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky 4 0
Jameson’s 3s 6d and 4 0
Dunville’s 8 6
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart ... 5 0
Jameson’s „ „ ..; 8 0
Flasks ... 2s6dand 2 3
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland.
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet ...
Glenlivet Whisky
Flasks
SCOTCH WHISKY.
... 5 0
4 0
~ 4s and 6 0
4 0
... 4 0
.. 3s 6d and 4 0
per Imperial quart... ... 5 0
2s 6d and, 2 3
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva... ... ... 4 0
Celebrated Key Brand, very large size, each
bottle containing more than a quart ... 3 6
Flasks Key Gin ... Is and 1 6
Wedding' and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all returns being
allowed for. C2T” Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at the Kailway
Station or any wharf in the city, Free ot Charge.
P. R. LARKIN'S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.-On receipt of £3, the following
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case :
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR PORT WIRE,
3 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERIOR SHERRY WINE
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best quality, and have
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make Post Office
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address— ,
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & Importer,
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sydney.
PEAPES and SZEZ^-W
■ 'n •' * >
Have recently opened large shipments of their now celebrated brand of
Standard Ready-made Clothing.
Those Goods are All Wool, and the cut, fit, and workmanship is not to be excelled anywhere*
•'STANDARD ■■ TWEED SUITS, THIRTT-EWESHILLINGSAND
••STANDARD •' TWEED SUITS, THIRTY-FIVE SHttUNGB.
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS, TWO GUINEAS.
Bi aimDA_ivu > PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
“STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS, FORTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
SIAJNDakd I w a&u cuiiPEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
“STANDARD ” TWEED SUITS. FIFTY SHILLINGS.
SIANDAKD l vyllu suixo, * PEAPES and SHAW’S, GEORGE STREET.
NOTE-
PATTERNS of the Tweeds in each price quoted forward on application, together with
instructions for self-measurement, post free. “
OVERCOATS FOR WINTER, in light, medium, and heavy textures, 255, 30s, 355.
O V ERGO ATS, CUT SPECIALLY , EXTRA LENGTHS, and exceptionally well finished, 425,
458 50s.
SCOTCH'fcwEED ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 80s, 355, 425, 455, 50s. .
G ENT. ’S DRESSING GOWNS, in Scotch Knickerbocker Felt Wool, and Paisley, m great
variety.
NEW RAILWAY RUGS in Wool, Plain and Fancy Seal, extra sizes, from 15s 6d upwards.
A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF BAGS.
GLADSTONE’S IN BUFF AND ENAMELLED HIDE
THE EXCELSIOR BRIEF BAG
THE BEACONSFIELD, and a variety of other shapes
Portmanteaus and Overland Trunks, in all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS, CHRISTY’S HATS,
ALL THE NEWEST AND LATEST LONDON SHAPES,
In Blaok Silk, Drab Snell, Hard Felts.
Travelling Hats and Caps, in great variety.
THE TURKISH FEZ.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-street.
THE TURKISH FEZ.
FEAFES & SHAW, George-street.
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers off American
Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
" position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES— Their CONQL ROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
jagr’D. & s., Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacoonists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries.


Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA It E,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
-
•y/ : .*;c.rSc'o,TTifc
.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &t\
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDT.
W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WHIS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents.
377 George-street.
Robert butcher & co
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
jyj- ELBOURNE CUP,
1883
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOIt” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
624 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7250 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3OOO
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) 1200
*** First Star £2OOO ***
*** Second Star 1000 ***
*** Third Star 500 ***
12 stars of £2OO each, 100 stars of £lOO each, 20
stars’of £5O each, 20 stars of £4O each, 45 stars of £25
each, 100 towns of £lO each, 200 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £4O.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which ho begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be
added, and in all cases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.0.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian. Age, and Sydney
Town and Country.
The Sydney and London Fme Art Company,
3-4 S G-eorgre Street
(UNDER FREEMAN’S STUDIO),
Have OPENED NEW and EXTENSIVE PREMISES for the Sale of
Works of Art and Yertu, Oil and Water-colour Paintings, Steel
Engravings, Bric-a-Brac, Bronze, and the best Fancy Goods.
Artists’ Material of every description, Albums, Photographs of Celebrities, Terra Cotta
in all colours for hand painting, Crystoleum Glass, Dresden, Majolica, and Doulton
Wares. Pictures sold or bought on commission.
Gallery Open for Inspection from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
he
c..C
TREATMENT
DR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco,
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery,
decay, and death ; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss. a
box, or six boxes for 355.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 255., the purchaser will receive
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure.
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists in
Australia.
SENT in an Envelope for Cd. Stamps to defray
Postage.
SOCIAL SCIENCE:
A Treatise on all Nervous Disorders which cause
Impediments to Marriage, and all Chronic
Diseases : also, How to Choose a Partner for Life,
so as to live happy and produce healthy children,
and how to regain and preserve your health, &c„ &c.
Address: R. T. SELBY, Medical Herbalist,
Devonshire-street, Surry Hills, Sydney.
BLEND
trade
A
®/S TEftfS
"IOLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
j of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
ning fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
’ taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
gents.
JSSBRULLAS
RE-COVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
Turkish Baths
For GENTLEMEN—OPEN DAILY (Sundays and
Wednesday afternoons excepted).
For LADIES.—On Wednesday Afternoons only,
from 2 p.m. till 10 p.m.
These Baths have been pronounced to be highly
beneficial to all persons suffering: from rheumatism,
gout, neuralgia, dyspepsia, indigestion, cold, sci-
atica, and all complaints of this nature, as well as
being a healthy, invigorating renewing of the
system to all persons obliged to lead sedentary
lives.
Try it, and experience its wonderful effects.
Prices of Admission—Single bath, ss. Six tickets, £l.
After 5 p.m., 2s. for gentlemen only. Quarterly
ticket, £5. Family ticket as per arrangement.
C. A. SH ERWIN, Manager.
Bligh Street.
Trmr atson a s w crane,
▼ ▼ SILVER, NICKEL, & GOLD PLATERS.
BRASS FOUNDERS AND MANUFACTURERS.
Old Electroplated Ware, Cruets, Spoons, and
Forks, Tea Services, &c., re-silver plated equal to
new, at Moderate Charges.
NICKEL PLATING on Brass, Iron, and Metal
Furniture and Fittings of all kinds in Best Style at
Lowest Prices.
JEWELLERY, &c., WELL GILT.
STEAM, BRASS, & ELECTROPLATING WORKS,
33ft PITT STREET.
G. H. SMITH,
> MANUFACTURER AND IMPORTER
OF
Slats <2z> Caps,
302 GEORGE STREET,
Three doors South of Hunter Street,
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT aacLertaHser,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
■J
m
m
The Autophone !
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
GEORGE STREET,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The AutophonC is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less than three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &e. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
It is pitched for the voice or orchestra, and has
a little card-holder for convenience in singing.
Any orchestral Instrument, Violin, Elute, &e., can
be played to accompany the Autophone.
It is entirely well-adapted for Country Churches,
Sunday Schools, the Family Circle, and also for
Dancing.
The AIJTOPHONE is like every other good thing,
the longer you have it the better you like it; and
as new music is being published every week, it has
an endless fund of amusement in it.
30s.
/'//
" >V,
awiamw»Uy
Km
13F VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, PIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for eelf-measurlflg forwarded to any
part of the Colony,
ASK FOR
OXfrJfyigbfcmft T&\)X£
mm
LATE
JAM ES WALKER
EDINBURGH
I SMI
£lB
Reg
tered.
is
tA
sriß. r ?
0 be had from ALL WINE AND
tue
CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from
SOLE AGENTS:
JOSEPH BOYD & S,
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET, SYP y
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves,
:d*
83f” Please read Certificates of its P, u , r j!?i'Hf
Certificates from the 42nd Royal
ment, “THE BLACK WATCH,” and the WA,!
land Light Infantry, &e., &c., as supplied “a,
JAMES WALKER, for 14 years, till his
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDy’L *
the purchasers of James Walker’s busmijjyiJP
the right to use his name on all Labels, 1
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
Notice—The above label register
JOSEPH BOY# #
WRIGHT, HEATON &G 1
(LIMITEI9),
GENERAL CARRIE* 5 '
0
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom n
{ and Commission A'gents -
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sy^
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT u
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES-
Southern District,
N.S.’W*
Goulbum
Yass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga WAfeJjj
Hanging B° cii
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.S.M r, ‘
Capertee
Bathurst
Bla j ney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagce
Cobar
Coonambie
Bourke
Northern District, N.S.^*'
Morpeth Brewarrina
Gunnedah Tarnwortn
Nnrrabri Uralla
Walgett
INCH® 8 '
QUEENSLAND
SOUTHERN AND SOUTH-WESTER^
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Central Line:
Capolla
Comet
Townsville
Charters Towers
Northern Line:
Itavenswoo^
jiid 1
y
Agents in Yi< toria and South A 0
T
WM. M'CUXiX OCH & CO
jl# 1
EBT* Agcnciq j in all parts
K°-
r dnev
Jytnn# sl
SyU
LIVERPOOL ST
Ladies' and Q entdemen s T
ALL BRANCHES* OF ATHU*
G. l£. d’HA,' RCOURTi 11
LI VEIIPOOL STXtD^ flg


If you want SUITS FOR YOUR BOYS that will WEAR WELL, or Good Useful DRAPES
at LOW PRICES, you cannot do better than go to
RILEY BROTHERS
lt> I H
THE HOTED CHEAP BRA
Who purchase all their goods for cash direct from the Manufacture
JUST READ THIS LIST.
Good Colonial Tweed, Is lid
Best Colonial Tweed. 2s 6d
Boys’ Trouser Tweed, Is 6d
Horroeks’ Long Cloth, 3%d
American Long Cloth, 2%d
Nightshirt Calico,
Stout Grey Calico, 2%d
Double Width Calico, 5%d
Wide White Flannel, 6.Kd
Yard White Flannel,
Good Scarlet Flannel, 5%d
Infants’ Saxony Flannel. 113 jd
Good Cotton Tick, 3%d
Strong Linen Tick, 73£d
Stripe Bed Ticking, 6%d
Unbleached Sheeting, s)£d
White Twill Sheeting, B%cl
Honeycomb Quilts, 2s lid
Coloured Bed Quilts, 2s 6d
Good White Blankets, 5s lid
Cotton Bed Fringe, 2%d
Marcella Toilet Covers,
Honeycomb Covers, 10^6.
Bedroom Towels, 2>£d
Large Bath Towels, 6d
Yard Wide Matting, new fancy patterns, 7^d
Stair Oilcloth, 4%d
Passage Oilcloth, s>£d
Table Oilcloth, Is 3d
Cream Table Damask, B>£d
White Linen Damask, Is 6d
Coloured Tablecovers, Is lid
Long Lace Curtains, 3s lid
White Window Holland, 6>£d
Green Window Holland, BKd
Striped Window Holland, 10}<d
RILEY BROTHERS,
The Cheap Drapers.
IEZiIGy~ Brothers
HAVE THE LARGEST AND CHEAPEST STOCK OF
MEN’S AND BOYS’
Clothing
In the Colonies.
Boys’ Sultan Suits, ss. lid each
Boys’ School Suits, 4s. lid each
Boys’ Tweed Cairo Suits, 7s. 6d. each
Boys’ Tweed Nelson Suits, 10s. 6d. each
Youths’ Four-button Sac Suits, 12s. 9d. each
Gent’s Four-Button Sac Suits, Tweed or Serge, 19s. 6d.
Gent’s Pour-Button Walking Coats, 17s. 6d.
Gent’s Warm Ulster Overcoats, 17s. 6d.
Gent’s Double-breasted Winter Jackets, 15s.
Gent’s Fashionable Overcoats, 15s.
JUST READ THIS LIST.
Girls’ Ulsters, cheap, 2s Gd
Ladies’ Warm Ulsters, 5s 9d
Black Fur Tippets, 3s lid
New Dress Materials, 2%d
Warm Homespun Tweed, 4%d
Black Lustre Alpaca, 5%d
Cashmeres, all colours, Is 3d
Black French Cashmere, Is
Good Wincey Tweeds, 3>£d
New Check Dresses, 4%d
Good Black Crape, Is lid
Ivory Handle Umbrellas, 4s Gd
Ladies’ Twill Umbrellas, Is Gd
Ladies’ Alpaca Skirts, 3s lid
Ladies’ Wool Clouds, Is lid
Ladies’ Plush Hats, 2s Gd
Ladies’ White Stays, 2s Gd
Ladies’ Nightdresses, 2s Gd
Ladies’ Drawers, Is 3d
Ladies’ Chemises, Is Gd
Ladies’ Camisoles, Is 9d
Children’s Underclothing
Baby Linen—Everything
Children’s Diaper Pinafores, 9d
Brook’s Cotton, Is 3d doz.
Coat’s Machine, 2s Gd doz.
Evan’s Crochet, Is 9d doz.
Coloured Cottons, 4d doz.
Hank Crochet, Is lid
Linen Buttons, from 5%d
Milward’s Best Needles
Machine Needles, Is paper
Morley’s Knitting, Is 9d lb.
Black Braid, 3G yards, Is
Cotton Tapes, 4d doz.
Country Pins, Is Gd lb.
Best Ounce Pins, Is 9d lb.
RILEY BROTH#'
The Cheap Draper*’
THIS PRICE LIST. —Persons who may read this advertisement must not think that, because the prices of some
ridiculously low, the goods are very common ; they are by no means the commonest goods. We have lower prices still; but the
competition now in the Drapery Trade is so keen, not only in Sydney hut with manufacturers in England, that good articles ca ll
be had at very Low Prices. Moreover, we confine our business to goods we have had a large experience in, and can publish sl V e ;
List of Prices in this advertisement for Sterling Good Articles which may well cause many persons to think that they are too c
to be good.
One trial will prove the fact that we Sell Useful Plain Household Drapery Cheaper than
House in Australia.
£2 worth of the above goods sent carriage free by Rail or Steamer, and £5 worth carriage free by Mail j
RILEY BROTHERS’
Drapery £5 Bales!
Carriage Eree by Mail Coach.
Carriage Eree by Steamer.
Carriage Eree by Train.
Insured against Damage.
Insured against Loss.
£5 Bales of Drapery.
£5 Bales of Clothing.
£5 Bales for Eamilies.
£5 Bales for Ladies.
£5 Bales for Children.
RILEY BROTHERS,
600 GEORGE STREET,
165 OXFORD STREET,
386 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
m
Is)
SB
u
V,
1£
■■' t
»=> -f
•"/.
RILEY BROTHS
Drapery j£s
Carriage free, and evw
paid to a thousand ndl eS '
Please send for a book $
and try a bale.
You will save £1 out of eY
! \
-erf
and get good wearing *
Beware of advertisers
deliver their bales at p
del^ er
$ Vi
io
way Stations; we
right to your door.
RILEY BROT
GOO GEORGE STREET,
165 OXFORD STRE^j^ 15
,586 GEORGE
iSYPNE*’*
8


$
Si
'M.
m
3
# s
V
m
3WW^7
His
‘V
wHISI.
'mM HM
msr
msamms
539 &54
. -^^e^-oYUNEYT^-^f
DPPOSITGPOST OfflCG.
STREET
JAMES MACGREGOR,
!®~ 308 GEORGE STREET.
IS
CELEBRIS.
WHOLESALE
G LIOCEIi
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD’S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LItHCTANIAN
MAG EN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
B3TT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBHATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
I
I
:
••
1311
rV B^
'■*77 j/
(©PTICIftNS
GOLDSMITH'S HALL 0
98. KING STREET
m
<*y.
X3>
0 o
/
\
‘Lj4
■
j> ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.’S
11 Accord Brass, Copper, Lead & Iron Works,
h\j
8 ansi 9 MACQUARIE PLACE,
AlIi ERs and gas fitters, art metal workers, &C. manufacturers and
l\fp and ga » fitters, art metal workers, &c. manufacturers
OUTERS OF CHANDELIERS, BRASS WINDOW SASH BARS, DIVING GEAR,
1.
PUMPS, HELMETS,
DRESSES, HOSE,
SPRINGS, GUERNSEYS,
STOCKINGS, BOOTS
(with lead soles),
RE A AIRING CLOTH,
SOLUTION, and all
ACCESSORIES, &c.
THE MARSHALL
WINDOW FASTENER,
THE CHEAPEST
and
MOST INEXPENSIVE
FASTENER MADE.
Prevents all rattling, and
fastens the window at
any height.
No weights, pulleys, cords, &c.,
required.
Ganges Fitted with Hot and Cold Water, Circulating' Apparatus and Boilers.
X^LLISTS
V
9®AMpion ROLLER SKATES, and every other make, always on hand. Wheels, Soles
U Accessories. Manufacturers of the PORTABLE TALLOW GAS APPARATUS.
AND SPECIAL PRIZE HOLDERS.
IS*” ESTABLISHED 1855.
11. SHAW SMITH.'
S. W. GREGORY.
w^EGORY.
(•**. P. GREGORY & CO.,
S'neers & M achinery Merchants
Say & i
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR
Co.’s Woodworking Machinery
lllni . Co.’s Emery Wheels and Machines
A. y , ce s Brass-lined Special Steam Pumps
L ARg E
Korting’s Injectors
Eclipse Windmills
Sturtovant’s Fans.
STOCK OF THE ABOVE ALWAYS IN OUR STORES,
n t 513 well as all
PLANING MILL, AND MINING REQUISITES,
17 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
&
G. B. ESOOBNI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlex-y just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
22 Royal Arcade, tecorgre Street, Sydney.
MORSE and RILEY
(Late N.S.W. Detective Force),
Who have had many years’ experience in America,
England, New Zealand, and the Australian Colonies,
beg to inform Merchants and Tradespeople in gene-
ral that they have opened the above premises as a
PRIVATE ENQUIRY OFFICE,
where they hope, by strict attention to all matters
entrusted to their care, to merit a share of their
patronage. „ ,
Cases of Divorce, Libel, Fraud, Missing Friends,
&c., traced. Strictest secrecy in all cases.
Office hours. 9 a .m. till 10 p.m. First-class references
Atlas Foundry Us Engineer-
ing Company,
j®” HAY STREET SYDNEY.
Engineers) Boilermakers and Shipbuilders,
Iron and Braasfouriders, Coppersmiths and
Millwrights.
The above Arm are prepared to undertake con-
tracts for the manufacture of Marine and Station-
ary Engines, Boilers, and Girder Work, Quartz-
crushing, Sawmill, Sheep-washing, Mining, Sugar-
mills, and all other descriptions of Machinery, with
latest improvements.
N. B.—Castings executed with despatch, and best
price given for metal.
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
MR. DAVID DUNK,
(Of Paddington)
Begs to inform his old customers and public gener-
ally that he has ononed a branch of his FRUITER-
ERS’ ESTABLISHMENT at
No. 17 ROYAL ARCADE.
His great experience, viz., 30 years, is a guarantee
of his ability to excel all others. Remember the
address-
-17 ROYAL ARCADE, and
461 South Head Road, Paddington,
T SIMPSON,
• I RON FOUNDER, &C.
Campekdown Foundry,
Lambert-street, Camperdown, West Sydney,
Manufactures all kinds of ornamental Palisading,
Frieze, Fringe, and Brackets, Plain and Fluted
Columns, Window Mullions, Colonial Oven Grates,
and General Castings.
tST” N.B.—Orders from the country punctually
attended to, and forwarded by road, rail, or water.
J. W. 18. CLARKE,
Bookseller & Stationer
5 and 6 MARKET BUILDINGS,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Market Street.
PURE GGUWTRY MILK.
IJIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Guifttsr.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
on MELBOURNE CUP,
1883.
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
“AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
13,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £l.
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters divide
Non-Starers
Total, £2OOO.
£lOOO
500
350
150
100
10
50
50
Prizes at
£35—£350
10— 500
5- 250
£lOOO
Grand total, £3OOO
The success of former events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P. 0.0., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps for reply
and result. Register letters.
Address —“ AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
HAWKES ARID COMPANY,
TATTEESALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of OASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
senarate.
“WIIAT IS A SECRET?”
SOMETHING told to everybody in a whisper.
Please tell all your friends this Secret, that
they will study both “Comfort and Economy” in
having their supply of WOOD and COAL from
WOTTING & CO.,
COAL AND PUEL MERCHANTS,
Cowper’s Wharf,
WOOLLOOMOOLOO BAY.
TRY IT—YOU CAN’T BEAT IT!
*4> c
¥
*
5^
SS
?t~
eta
w
C~3
P«
3
O
' ■
.1,2*
<r>
a
*
*
&
x
\ c
Q>%
6>
•£>*
9 A v
Sr X
Solo Agents?
ROBERT PHILLIPS AND CO-. 253 GEORGE STREET,
THO M A
IMPORTER OF
®"WORKB OF ART,
GERMAN & SWISS WOOD CARVINGS
ARCADE BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
KERB,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
JJAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
54 4 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address-
-544 GEORGE STREET.
“HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF.”
As Eve tempted the First Man, so EVE TEMPTS
THE PRESENT MAN; hut, luckily, not the same
Eve, but
CTa,aaa.©s Eve,
149 KING STREET,
Opposite Theatre Royal Entrance.
With the Best Brands of AM Tobacco and Cigars.
66
MEL
M
O
N
D.’
MELBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £lO,OOO in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
Application by letter only, enclosing stamp, to
“DIAMOND,”
Care of O. Schieblich.
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Collins-street East, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“ Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
W. Walker and Sons,
FURNITURE MANUFACTURERS,
Bunhilxj Row, London.
Sydney Branch:
102 CLARENCE STREET, off Barrack Street.
jgir“ Highest Award Sydney and Melbourne Inter-
national Exhibitions.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers anil Magazines received hy
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE, 496 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
