

THE BULLETIN
VoL 1.—No. 14.—New Series
SATURDAY. AUGUST 18. 1883.
Price—6d.
TBE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN ”
IS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANT OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S. W. -THAT OF ONE VER Y OL D ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS” BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 18. 1883.
Annexation.
The Imperial Government is evidently
seriously concerned to comply with what it
doubtless regards as the fervent and all but
unanimous desire of the Australian colonists
in the matter of annexation in the Pacific.
If the Home authorities were fully seized of
the actual temper of the colonial mind in
this matter, they might spare themselves
ra uch trouble. There has, as yet, been scarcely
a scintilla of evidence that the public at
large care a jot about the matter. The
movement had a purely factitious origin.
With a defeat and general election in plain
view ahead, and without a popular cry
with which to approach the constitu-
encies, the very able and masterful Premier
°f Queensland, Sir Thomas M’Ilwraith,
was inspired with the conception of
dazzling the populace of his colony by a
brilliant tour-de-force which would invest
him with a sort of romantic halo, and
so win him, at the polling booths, a degree
Of favour 'which ho could not expect
if he made domestic affairs the standard
by which he was to be judged. Sir Thomas,
fired by this dashing idea, dispatched a little
schooner and a small functionary to hoist a
big flag on the New Guinea shore, and to
fire a royal salute from sundry pop-guns.
The rattle of these harmless pieces of ord-
nance shook the windows of half the diplo-
matists of Europe. There ensued an imme-
diate ferment, very gratifying to the resi-
dents of a colony which had suffered morti-
cations by being unknown even to post-
masters in Europe. The fine old sentiment,
which in France is called Chauvinism, and in
England Jingoism, but which is dormant in
the breasts of men of all nationalities, was
tickled by the commotion. The affair was a
world’s wonder, Bismarck was understood
to have distinctly shut one eye when the
subject was mentioned. Von Moltke was
reported to have shaken his head. M.
Challemel-Lacour, the French Foreign
Minister, no sooner heard of it, than he was
smitten with a cold in his head, and was
observed to wear a warm cravat. The
Italian Ministry discussed the affair. M. db
Giers, on behalf of Russia, unofficially
stated that he didn’t care a curse about it,
and this significant expression of opinion
was cabled all over the world. It was felt
in the colonies that Sir Thomas MTl-
wraith had indeed put Jack Horner into
the shade. Sitting in an obscure corner of
the world, he had pulled out an unmistakable
plum, and had acquired the right to con-
gratulate himself upon his own superlative
merit.
• • •
Whether it was design or luck, the Queens-
land Premier managed, at the very outset of
his project, to enlist allies of considerable
value. His emissary was welcomed by the
resident missionaries in New Guinea. It
appears that those worthy men still cherish
illusions, which most ordinary people have
long ago discarded. Bent upon winning (he
natives to admiration of Christian ethics,
they permitted themselves to believe that
their object would be accelerated by bring-
ing the native races into closer intimacy
and contact with a Christian people. Expe-
rience has shown the lamentable fallacy of
this expectation. In every other instance
such contact has been not elevating and
Christianizing to natives of Oceania, but
demoralizing and fatal. Still, as the mission-
aries cherish their delusion, Exeter Hall
went for them with abandon , and an annexa-
tion-party sprang into existence in Great
Britain almost as soon as the tidings of Mr.
Chester’s descent upon New Guinea reached
Home. This again reacted upon the Presby-
terian missionists of Victoria. They had
been labouring in the New Hebrides, and
had spent quite a large amount in preparing
the ground there for the cultivation of souls.
They likewise wanted to be backed up by
the secular power, the more especially as
their rivals—the priests—were doing all they
could to get France to annex and to civilize
the natives by spreading over their land the
blessed influence of convict importations.
Hence the good Presbyters of Melbourne
made representations to the Premier of that
colony—himself a Scot and a Presbyterian
just as the Premier of Queensland is Scotch
and Presbyterian—for the occasion. And, as
Mr. Service is politically supported by his
countrymen and co-religionists, it suited
him far better to speak them fair than to
argue with them about a matter which didn’t
trouble ids mind a jot. So the Queensland
Premier and the Victorian Premier slid
easily into a prolific interchange of high-
faluting telegrams, and poked up our own
Sandy and the others to join in and unite
in impressing upon the Imperial authorities
the necessity of honouring “ the united
voice of the Australian colonies.”
• * *
It luckily befel, just at the right time, that
a batch of French criminals had escaped
from their keepers in New Caledonia and
reached Queensland; and that, moreover,
the French Legislature was in the act of
arranging to deport great numbers of
scoundrels to the Pacific. The latter fact
constituted a real grievance, and all the rest
could be very conveniently hung about it
like a string of sausages round a roast turkey.
The sausages are not turkey, but put them
in the same dish, and to meddle with them
naturally creates apprehensions for the piece
de resistance. Altogether, by jumbling up
the coloured-labour appetite of the planters,
the Christianizing illusion of the mission-
aries, the Qallo-phobia of the ignorant, and
the reasonable objection of all Australians
to see Oceania converted into a French
Alsatia—and a very pretty little Jingo
simmer has been brewed. Sir Thomas MTl-
wraith has managed to draw the Govern-
ments of Victoria, New South Wales, and
South Australia into a Conference on the
Annexation question,'and expects that New
Zealand and Western Australia will join. The
Government of Tasmania holds aloof. But
even did the Tasmanian Cabinet agree,
the Conference will be little likely to
effect anything. There is no real heart
The Proprietors op the “Sydney Morning Herald.”
JAMES READING .FAIRFAX.
EDWARD ROSS FAIRFAX,


T
Coughs and Colds.
HE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
G. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Dejartmcai,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET,
where you can obtain for
Sd.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET,
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELISH WHISKY.
6s. per bottle.
VERDBILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle,
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
New south wales racing company’s
CONSULTATIONS on METROPOLITAN
STAKES (To bo RUN at RANDWICK, TUESDAY,
Sept, 4), and MELBOURNE CUP.
50,000 Shares at 10s. per Share—£25,000.
1st Horse £4000 I Starters £1000
2nd „ -2000 I Non-Starters ... 2000
3rd „ 10001
For 149 Horses £10,000
117 Prize Gifts.—266 Prizes in all.
1 Prize Gift
2
£4000
„ .. 2000
„ .. 1000
„ at £500 1000
„ at 250 1000
117 Prize Gifts
8 Prize Gifts, at 125 £1000
20 „ at £100 2000
40 „ at 50 2000
40 „ at 25 1000
£15,000
Application by Letter only, addressed to the Secre-
tary, No. 2 Wentworth Court, Elizabeth-street;
or Box 255, G.P.O., Sydney.
P.S.—Applicants will please state for which event.
All parties are requested to forward Drafts, P.O.
Orders, or Cheques ; If Cash, to register letters.
Results sent to Shareholders and published in the
Leading Weekly Papers of the Colonies.
The Drawing will take place before a Committee
Of Shareholders, W. BURNHARD,
The Rates of Subscription 10 The Bulletin
are—For one year, 34a.: half v.ar, 13s.; quarter, fis
The Advertising Bate* are 5r. per inch ;
special positions In the paper 7s. fid. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on eonlinaous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered iev ii consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For M eorjseentlve insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 cousocuti vc insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for allerual* intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under ill, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
in the movement. With the exception
of a deputation of parsons interested in
the New Hebrides mission, who pressed
upon the Victorian Premier the “necessity”
of annexing that group—in disregard of
Imperial treaty obligations—the whole affair
has been a sort of hocus-pocus among Cabinet
Ministers. The Press, indeed, has shown a
mildly Jingo tendency. But the people of
the colonies have been immobile and indif-
ferent. There is not the slightest proof that
the fuss which has been made has the approval
of the people of any one of the colonies. In
Queensland, where the annexation epidemic
originated, a general election is just com-
menciug, and candidates have been harangu-
ing. Yet even there, the annexation question
has been barely referred to. Nothing turns
on it. The instinct of candidates has not
induced them to claim credit for being
devoted adherents of annexation; and it has
not occurred to any to deprecate rivals by
ascribing to them indifference on this head.
In New South Wales, the indifference may
be learned in every assemblage. The topie
is not a burning one: it has scarcely a spark
of Are in it.
■ • ■
The fact is that annexation has nothing in
it for this generation of Australians. Not
one man in a thousand has any tangible in-
terest in the Islands of the Pacific. Pew
even think about the matter; and of those
who do think, a considerable proportion
must, we conceive, be very dubious about
the wisdom of a policy which would tend to
dissipate Australian energies in time of
peace, and to widen Australian responsibili-
ties and risks in time of war. What do wo
want with annexations? We could not
colonise them: we need more colonists
than we can get for the continent
we hold. We could not defend such
outlying posts in time of war, in our
present condition. It would need all our
resources to defend ourselves. The true
policy of Australians is not to dissipate, but
to concentrate their vigour. This grand
continent contains within itself all that is
requisite to support a great nation. And the
nation which peoples this continent must of
necessity dominate, politically and commer-
cially, the scattered groups of islands which
stud the surrounding seas.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Coming Australia.
During a lecture on Australian federation given In
the Pitt-street Congregational Church, the Rev. J.
Jepferis, LL.B., bearing in mind Sir Hercules
Robinson’s estimated 31,000,000 of Australians by
the middle of the 30th century, remarked (as re-
ported by the Congregational organ, the S.M.
Herald) : “ What a vision is that of noble cities
and busy towns and quiet hamlets, . ... of
fleet h ami armies," etc. Quiet hamlets—fleets and
armies I There is something wrong here. It is a
fact, second to none in singularity, that nearly all
the founders of religions preached peace, while the
followers cling to war. An army of Zulus sur-
rounds and cuts to pieces one of our regiments in
South Africa. The “ colours ’’—defended to the
last—are lost. Then an immaculately attired
churchman in England solemnly blesses another
piece of variegated silk attached to another pole,
and, having prayed the “ Great Architect of the
Universe” to show fair play to this symbol, gives
it into the keeping of a couple of gallant young
English, Irish, or Scotch lads to defend with their
lives. Thus, while we are hymning the praise of hu-
manity and civilization a false note is suddenly
struck, and we find that we have been travelling in
a circle all the time, and are not nearly so far from
“ barbarism ” as we imagined. And now for Mr.
Jefferis’ allusion to Australian “fleets and ar-
mies.” The chances of the colonics federating
before possessing 30,000,000 of people are great—
that they will separate from the mother country
before that time, is certain. Not in anger will they
l oave —like those whoso affection that sweet crea-
ture, George III., failed to recover even with the
help of Indian scalping-knives—but impressed
with the conviction that political ties between
fifty or sixty millions in the Northern Hemisphere
and thirty in the Southern, would irritate both.
Let us now suppose a federated Australia. Why
should it want armies, navies, colours, war ships,
and great guns ? Why not adopt the American
policy as well as the American form of govern-
ment, and be content with Australia V The people
of the United States have no army worth talking
of, and are rapidly getting rid of their navy. But
an Australian clergyman, looking seventy years
ahead, sees a population of thirty millions under
the Southern Cross, and dwells Avith admiration on
the powers for destruction which rve will have de-
veloped ! Scrape us, and avc are savages still.
Criminal Investigations.
There is an article on “Detective Police” in a
late number of the Nineteenth Century, which
points directly to this country. The N.S.W. Police
Department, may, perchance, be considered as a
thing which merely toddles, in comparison with
such gigantic combinations as Scotland Yard and
the Prefecture of Police of Paris. But where we
fall, so do they fail at Scotland Yard; and in a like
manner so do they succeed at Paris. We have, in
N.S.W., a detective force which is supposed to bo
organized on Intelligent principles. Either the
gentleman at the head of the police of this country
is a great man or a little man. We will assume, at
once, that he is a great man. This granted, we come
directly to the question as to where his greatness—
we use the word, of course, in the sense of intelli-
gent administration—is apparent And, while do-
ing this, we may ask the same question with regard
to Mr. Howard Vincent, Director of Criminal
Investigations in London, who is in receipt of an
enormous salary, and who has the control of money
for public purposes that is practically unlimited
And it is worthy of remark that the policy these
gentlemen have adopted with reference to cri-
minal investigations has also been adopted by
Mr. Secret AN, Chief of the Detective Police of
Victoria for years. The result—and this is now a
matter of history—has been that the detective
police of Victoria have been found to bo less in-
competent than corrupt; that the London detec-
tives, as instanced in the trial of Dhuscovitch and
Meiklejohn, have been found to be—both incom-
petent and corrupt. Our detectives as a body
have not, so far, been found to be corrupt, nor
more incompetent than their London brethren; but
they are certainly members of a school which is
ludicrously behind the age. We will instance this.
All our plain-clothes police are not only known to
every member of the canaille of Sydney, but in ad-
dition to this they “assort” themselves. They
“pose” as policemen; they are proud—perhaps
rightly so,—of their positions ; and they let the
world know it. You can see them outside the
theatres, lingering about the caDs, and at the
corners of the streets. They make arrests in the
open streets; they investigate in their ordinary
apparel cases of every nature, crimes of every
grade. In Paris, no agent (criminal investigator)
ever makes an arrest. He follows up the clues,
tracks the criminals to their lairs, and then van-
ishes. Uniformed officers do the rest. From the
huge wardrobe at the Prefecture the agents are
enabled to select whatever costume or disguise
they consider suitable; and they never under-
take a case twice in the same dress. The
result of all this is a marvellous success for the
authorities of the Rue de Jerusalem against a
ludicrous failure for England and for us. AVhat
the English and our detective police roly on is
“information.” The French authorities are, to a
large extent, Independent of this valuable medium
towards the detection of crime, the taciturlty and
reserve of the criminal classes of Paris, etc., being
well known. We have reformed a good many
things in N.S.W. The time has now arrived when
we should alter our system of criminal investiga-
tions. An universal yearning for novelty is upon
us all; and it would be a pleasant (if startling)
piece of intelligence did it go forth that the police
authorities here had secured the conviction of a
prominent criminal who had neither previously
given himself up, nor had been “ given away ” by
a partner in crime.
The Inevitable.
We do not object to being thrown in the mud.
What we really set our faces against Is having it
“rubbed in.” And, If for “mud” we substitute
“Indignity,” then we submit that the Herald’s
sub-leader of Saturday last is precisely the thing
to make any Australian’s ears tingle. Froude—
who, from the stories ho told of the 18th century,
was supposed to be the person referred to in the
lines—
“ I sits and writes lies in a book,
And if anyone asks me for why ?
I gives ’em a dignified look,” &c. &c.—
was sent to South Africa to tell the people there
that they should prepare for complete severance
from England at some future time. The same
message Is sent to us daily—not by words, but by
acta—and the Herald, and those who believe in it,
knock their knees together and say “ Please, Mr.
Bull, don’t forsake me, and I won’t forsake you.”
This is the sort of thing served up to us with our
morning coffee: “There is no ground for the fear
that anything the French may do in the Pacific
will affect the allegiance of the Australian colonies
to the Empire It is the Toides who
have discovered that wo are drifting or are in
danger of drifting away from the Empire, and
Tories are apt to create dangers of this kind for
the purpose of getting a fresh indictment against
Mr. Gladstone,” &c. &c. Now, it cannot be too
clearly understood that, whatever benefit wo de-
rive from our political dependence on the United
Kingdom, it derives none at all from us. The men
who think they are giving expression to a pro-
found truth when they say, “What would Eng-
land be without her colonies ?” might at least tell
us how the Australian colonies, for instance, add
to England’s strength or importance! Her army ?
We do not supply a soldier. Her navy ? We do
not send a sailor. Her exchequer ? AVe do not
add a shilling. Her trade ? Well, yes. AVe trade
with her because we can buy goods cheaper there
than in any other place. Let the merchants of
N.S. Wales be able to land French, German, or
American goods at Circular Quay one per cent,
cheaper than similar goods can be landed from
England, and no patriotic consideration would
keep them from buying in Paris, Berlin, or New
York. AVhy, then, is any surprise expressed when
English statesmen show by word and act that con-
stitutionally governed colonies are sources of
weakness rather than strength, and wish to be
rid of them ? The paper which, in the face
of these constant rebuffs, tries to inculcate the
belief that we are never to go alone, but must
always hang on to the coat-tails of a respectable
old body in the Northern Hemisphere, is no true
friend of Australia. What our young people
should be taught, and what far-seeing English
statesmen appear to be anxious that they should
be taught, is that Australia possesses initsd r • it
the materials for a great Republic; that evc.i,..ul
separation is as certain as a future war between
France and Germany ; that the separation will
take place in deference to a law as inexorable as
that of multiplication, but without any ill-feeling
on either side; and that, as girls are taught to look
forward to the day when, as brides, they will have
to leave the parents who watched over their help-
lessness, so Australians should be taught to keep a
steady eye on the inevitable time when they will
be expected not to shirk the respons bilities of
“Empire,” but to take their place among the
nations.
Aeria Navigation,
There is nothing: strange in the fact of a French-
man’s having committed suicide. The assigned
cause constitutes the singularity of the present
case. M. Sifford had devoted the best part of a
life to the solution of the problem of aerial naviga-
tion. Ever since the brothers Montgolfier, a
hundred years ago, passed over Paris in a balloon
of heated air, this problem of airy voyaging has
possessed a fascination greater than that of “ per-
petual motion,” “squaring the circle,” “trisect-
ing the or getting a quart ot beer into a
pint pot, all welded together. Like the others,
too, it attracts all the dreamers, castles in Spain
men, and speculative free-lances, who always
cluster round a question that others have for-
saken. Oddly enough, all methods hitherto
broached for navigating the air, have been pro-
jected in accordance with principles demonstrably
false. They have all adopted “ buoyancy,” instead
of “ weight,” as a watchword. It is as if the
geometrician adopted, as an axiom, the statement
that a straight line is not the shortest distance be-
tween two points, and then wondered at the insta-
bility of the structure raised on such a rotten
foundation. The balloon is a toy, and never can
be anything else. All machines which ciing to
this stupid principle of lightness, whether their
inventors Intend to drive them by wings or sails,
or paddles or screws, must fail. An albatross sails
round a ship, not because it is lighter or as
light as the supporting air, but because it is
immensely heavier. There is no perceptible
movement of the wing, yet round the bird
goes as if by volition. Of course, men feel a little
annoyed to think that what innumerable stupid
creatures, from fly to flamingo, can do without
effort, they have never been able to do at all.
From various sources we have collected a fund of
useful information on this flying business, and can
assure our readers that men’s previous failures in
this direction have been almost wholly due to
ignorance of the law in conformity with which any
machine, to be successful, must be constructed.
And now to return to our Gaul. He committed
suicide, not because he could not solve the pro-
blem, but because he could. But no sooner was
success within what Mr. Gladstone would call
“ measurable distance,” than ho concluded that as
flying shares went up, civilization would go down.
To his mind the two things were Incompatible ; so
as he was not prepared to destroy civilization,
he determined to destroy himself. It is a singular
fact that every great discovery, from the mariner’s
compass to the bicycle, was supposed to be detri-
mental to civilization. So sooner than spoil this
progress, that took so much trouble to compass, our
Frenchman cut his throat; and for a time, at least,
successful air voyaging and he lie-like Yilikxns
and his Dinah—in the same grave.
Mr. Dalley is not a man to be intimidated, even
by a Chief Justice. The vigorous and unblenching
fashion In which he, at West Maitland, took up the
gauntlet flung down by Sir James Martin, gives
earnest of real performances in the coming Ses-
sion. The people of the colony are, we believe,
quite alive to the dangers to which a community
is exposed, in which the Press is judicially muzzled.
Nominally, the muzzle may be put on in the in-
terest of innocent persons. But, practically, the
effect must be, If Chief Justice Martin’s law be
maintained, to keep it on in the interests of rogues
and vagabonds. What is wanted is a definite law
that people can understand, so that there may be
equal assurance that malicious and scurrilous at-
tacks upon inoffensive persons shall be as readily
punishable as a blow with the list, and that honest
condemnation of the devices of tricksters and the
corrupt proceedings of public men shall be unas-
sailable.
It is gossiped that the Ministry will shortly send
several people to the Legislative Council—among
them Sir Wigham Allen, and Messrs. Henry
Moses, M.L.A., and Greville. The country
doesn’t want any Grovel, M.L.C. Why doesn’t
the Government look for a little Intellect, instead
of using the Council chamber as a kind of mori-
bund ward for plethoric, greasy money-baggers
and busted political schemers ? The Ministry have
lately professed themselves as being much con-
cerned about the liberty of the Press. Why don’t
they emphasize their professions bv appointing
such a man, for instance, as Andrew Garran, of
the 8.M. Herald, an L.L.D. who has gained his
livelihood by honourable exertion of his intellec-
tual powers for the last quarter of a century ?
The Proprietors of the “Sydney Morning
Herald.”
In presenting our readers with the portraits
of the proprietors of the Sydney Morning
Herald, we place before them the lineaments
of two men who have at all times endeav-
oured to discharge, to the best of their
abilities, the duties they owe to the public,
and who have, on a recent occasion, secured
the entire approbation and sympathy ot all
colonists who value a free press. We have
differed, and will continue to differ, with the
S.M. Herald on many points. But that the
aims of that journal have ever been in honest
accordance with the convictions of its pro-
prietors, no one can doubt. Its manage-
ment has been chargeable, perhaps, with
over-caution, and it may have hesitated
when it should have spoken trumpet-voiced.
But that, when it did raise its voice boldly
and earnestly, the result should have been
that the law, which should march shoulder
to shoulder with every soldier fighting the
bat ties of the community, dealt them an ugly
knock, is so shocking an occurrence, that all
differences must be cast aside. Should
aught of further pecuniary loss, or of per-
sonal annoyance, befal the Messrs. Fairfax
in consequence of the services rendered by
them to the community, a demonstration,
such as has never been accorded to journal-
ists since the proprietors of The Bulletin
were sent to gaol under somewhat similar
circumstances, will be an inevitable result.
Mr. Edward Ross Fairfax is the resident
offender against our lovely libel laws. Mr.
James Reading Fairfax is the absent uncon-
scious accomplice in the offence which
has so completely satisfied the community.
Quiet nerve and balmy sleep in Hop Bitters,
for sleepless ladies and invalids. Notice,
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“New Chum” (Melbourne); We pay for
such contributions. Give us your name and ad-
dress “Unit”: You’re not a born poet. Poets
are born, not made “Lost”: You haven’t the
afflatus. You may be a poet; if so, you’re but a
dumb one. We know it is often hard for a dumb
poet to stay dumb—“J.A.P.”; AVe don’t deal in
such literature—“T.F.”: Too rough on the con-
venances “J.S.E.”: When we received your
pamphlet, we carefully perused the two first pages.
Then we still more carefully laid it up in lavender.
It will bo a curiosity in a month “Toby”; Yes.
The English won at Tel-el-Kebir. The Egyptians
are sturdy soldiers. A British corporal drilling a
company of the Khedive’s troops at Cairo found
some fault with the awkwardness of the right-
hand man of the rear rank. He gave expression
to his views by a “ lift ” (as he expressed it) under
the Egyptian’s ear. The whole rank fell... “ J.X.”;
We really do believe that the tea of commerce is a
plant. Yes, a regular “ plant.” — “M.J.C.”: Aris-
tocracy, whose special office it is to see and think,
has lost completely both its brains and eyes, and
has nothing neadlike left it except its mouth, and
that cannot as much as speak : it can only eat and
yawn “ Cornstalk”: Sir ’Enry will, no doubt,
dine once more with the nobility. The minu this
time will consist of cold shoulder—“ J.Y.” (Armi-
dale): You should have informed the Herald. It
was Lord Chief Justice Coke who said “ A good
judge gives judgment according to what is equit-
able and right, and prefers an equitable construc-
tion to the strict letter of the law.” Compared
with our own, Coke was very “small pumpkins,”
but, as Sir James condescendingly said of Sir Alex-
ander Cockburn, he was certainly “ a very clever
man.”... “lilawarra”: Yes, just as being the pro-
prietor of a hencoop, a bucket of paste, and a pair
of shears, makes one “ connected with the press.”
“Freethinker”: You mean well “Jerry”:
Hardly interesting enough, ..“Clouds and Dis-
honesty”: The two pieces are equally poor
“ Momus" .-Not brilliant.... “G.E.” (Palmer-street):
Quite right. Verses could not possibly get us into
trouble. Nobody would read them “N.A.D.”
(Petersham) : Fairly good, but of vague applica-
tion “Football ”: Yes, send us anything good...
“ J ack Sprat ”: Too late last week ; too old, this...
“ Press ”: AVe quite agree about dramatic criticism
in Sydney, Tney universally “butter,” because
they dare not do otherwise. But your mem. is too
local for our columns.
AVe do not undertake to return rejectep
communications. Writers should keep copies.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Hanlan is to come here and row Laycock.
This intelligence seems to exercise several people,
but it doesn’t exercise us much. Hanlan has
beaten Trickett twice, and made a holy show of
the man whom he has “ consented ” once more to
pull. Two publicans, named respectively Cal-
laghan and Hunt, are going to “ put up ” a portion
of the stakes, and a lot of idiots are once more
trying to get excited. We are, of course, not a
bit excited; but we are a good deal amused. Let’s
see. Leaving Hanlan out of it altogether, what
do we And ? Why, that Trickett has beaten Lay-
cock, who was beaten by Beach, who also rowed
away from Trickett. Trickett has beaten Rush,
and Laycock has beaten Trickett and been beaten
by Beach, who was beaten by Rush. Trickett then
beats Beach, and Laycock beats Bush. Thus the
aquatic whirligig-. But it is worthy of remark
that Hanlan, who has beaten a great deal better
lot, never gets beaten. Laycock, on the other-
hand, has beaten everybody, and everybody has
beaten him. Well, Perkins came out and couldn’t
pull; and Largan came out and couldn’t (or didn’t)
pull, either. The arrival of these aquatic frosts
once more caused “ a large amount of interest to
be taken in the doings of the rowing world.” Then
something was said about a Thames-disturbing
miscreant named Bubear. Bubear was coming,
but luckily he thong , t better of it. A little later
we find (of all people) Charlie Bannerman pulling
“in light skiffs ” some man nobody ever heard of.
This fact, we admit, raised the tone of aquatics
considerably! If only another one or two of the
Eleven (say “ Spoff.” and the “ little stone-waller ”)
had also joined the aquatic profession, even pedes-
trianism would, in point of several things, have
had to take a back seat. We have, of course, the
highest respect for B. C. Laycock, Esq.; but we
wish he were not quite so uncertain. He is, in-
deed, as full of surprises as a conjuror. It would
not, therefore, surprise us now to see him give
Hanlan “a doing, then be licked by Trickett,
who, in his turn, might possibly be beaten by
Beach. We, however, believe that Laycock will
not win the race with the Canadian. But we are
almost certain that he will once more be beaten by
Bush, who will be thrashed by Trickett, who will
be beaten by Beach, whom Laycock will once
more defeat. Oh, you nice, entertaining people!
• • •
If the clergy were not sure, by reason
of their holy calling, of going to heaven, we should
begin to feel uneasy for some of them. Here we
see the Kev. Mr. Brophy, of the Ribbon Army,
being fined for getting drunk, and the Rev. Edward
Rose (known in the Looard as “Happy Jack”)
getting eighteen months’ for being giddy. It was
tfinly the other day, too, that an Anglican vicar in
N.Z. was kicked out by the church-wardens for
certain ministrations in connection with a member
of his choir that are not embodied in the ritual of
the Church of England ; and daily accounts reach
us of the conduct of certain rev. gentlemen which
is decidedly more skittish than sedate. These cir-
cumstances, however, receive but little notice at
our hands : and it is only when a rev. martyr
■writes us from “ the jug ” and asks us to fling him
some tobacco over the wall that we begin to think
there is something in it. The gentleman with
whom we have to deal now is noticed, not so much
because of his alleged roguery, as because of his
sublime audacity ; and less because of either than
on account of the gorgeous vein of humour,
polished and delicate in its every phase, that be dis-
played in the transaction we are going to chronicle.
It seems that one Barley, living in Essex, lost by a
misfortune the two horses by means of which he
was enabled to gain a livelihood, and a subscrip-
tion, headed by the Vicar, the Rev. B. Ruck-Keene,
was initiated, which closed at £9, an amount suffi-
cient to enable Bayley to buy a new horse with.
“Then,” says the Essex Telegraph, “the rev.
gentleman, with this money in his hand, went to Mr.
Bayley’s, and in that individual’s absence, arranged
with Mrs. Bayley that £7 of this money should be
deducted for tithes due, and thus by a clever coup
the Rev. Ruck-Keene is £4 10s. in pocket.” The
Rev. Mr. Ruck-Keene, on the Sunday following, of
course mounted the pulpit in a clean white surplice
and read the service impressively; then, after send-
ing the sexton to the vicarage from the vestry to
see how the roast pork was getting on, donned his
vestments, and “got at them” again, entreating
his hearers to be pure of mind, unselfish. God-fear-
ing, and charitable. That’s the way they do it.
Well, there appears to all but Pastor Allen to be a
dim uncertainty hanging over the question of our
eventual destination. So all v > can say is, wher-
ever the place may be, If the Rev. Mr. Ruck-Keene
has a seat in the dress-circle, we shall humbly beg
to be put into the pit—yes, gentlemen, the bottom-
less pit.
• • •
Wo have a suggestion to make; and we
commend It especially—as the furniture men do
their announcements—to the attention of married
couples, with or without encumbrance. Every-
body who lias read the evening classic daily perpe-
trated by Alfred, has seen the notices of anniver-
saries of deaths which form so conspicuous a
figure in that journal. This Is the style:—
When dear Bob was here below,
Oh, ho loved a buttered crumpet;
In his saucer used to blow,
Now he blows into a trumpet.
That one, though, “scans” rather too well to be
genuine, so wo will just clip a sample from Mon-
day’s Evening News:—
“ Dearest mother, thou art gone,
Far above to thy last home.
Great was (sic) thy sufferings here below,
Jesus took you for his own.”
This, of course, is all very well in its way, and we
are glad to see, by a notice In the paper, that It
has been “authenticated by a respectable person."
Well, what wo suggest is, that people seeking
cheap notoriety should not confine themselves
to advertising anniversaries of the deaths of
their families, but draw in on the “ Little-Bobby’
Goue-to-Heaven ” business, and publish something
every year about the anniversary of their nuptials.
Here are—though wo really are too lavish in in-
struction—a few hints:—
i.
Brown John to Jones Amelia. Married, etc.
When I used to kiss my ’Melia,
On my coat I got her bloom;
Now, whene’er 1 kiss my ’Melia,
On my back I get her broom. J.B.
ir.
M’Guffin Tim to Jane Simpkins. Married, etc.
I placed the weddin’ ring and keeper
Hon her finger with a bow;
What’s gone, I should like to fathom,
Of that ring and keeper now ? T.M.
in.
Reginald de Foljambe to Margaret Mont-
morenci. Married, etc.
He was soft, and oh, so gentle,
Swore to love and cherish me;
Swore that only joy and roses
All my life I’d ever see 1
Swore his deep, his heartfelt passion,
I should never never lose;
But he’d be my good knight ever—
Now, I have to clean his shoes.
MAGGIE R.
There, dear public. En voiU assez!
* * *
Perhaps the only persons who are really
enjoying themselves in Sydney, at present, are the
“ Invincibles.” The Nelson being so close in shore
they can mash the girls on Lady Macquarie’s chair,
and enjoy to the full our beautiful harbour. They
fish, and smoke, and drink rum—in default of
whisky. They applied, belt said, for their poteen
once, and they applied once again for it to the
Commodore ; but we have it, on the authority of
the boatswain, that they were refused on the second
time of Erskine. And now to divulge something.
Ever since the informers have been transhipped on
board the Nelson, life at tne Freeman’s Journal
has been, both for Butler and M’Girr, far from a
happy one. Just as Michael is opening his morning
mail, and smiling like a saucer over his tinpinnies,
a tall man in a frieze coat down to his heels, a low-
crowned hat, and several dear little shamrocks
growing on his teeth, will enter mysteriously, and
calling the boss aside, say, “ Whist! number thirty-
five I” “Take thirty-five shilluns from this jintle-
man,” says Michael, much puzzled. Money paid.
Then the visitor calls Mr. M’Girr once more aside,
and says, “Avardumeramillecaedbegorra.” “Oh,
is that it?” says M’Girr. “Murray! a subscription
form for this good ould Oirish jintleman.” Michael
writes, the visitor signs, and thus becomes a sub-
scriber to the Freeman for (19 years. He pays it
all in advance, then whispers, “Lit me doonnow
in the cillar, so I can load me little goon.” A boy
goes in the morning to the office half an hour
earlier now, as he has to clear the area of a cart-
load of pikes (with “God save Ireland!” on the
blades) which are left there nightly. Mr. Butler is
similarly distressed. Last Tuesday, for Instance,
he had a poor time. No sooner had lie lit his cigar,
put on his slippers (he finds inspiration for leaders
in his slippers, just as some editors do in snuff), and
commenced to think of the last injustice to Ire-
land, than a tall man stalks in and says, “ Whist-
faugh-a-balla, Eringobraghgoroo. No quarter.”
“Well, I forget the subscription, but Mr. M’Girr
” “ Whist! where,” hero lie lowered his voice,
“ is your grinding-stone ? I am determined! There
are no half-mea ” “ Well, I’m busy now,” said
Mr. B.; “Mr. M’Girr will ” “ You see this,”
said the visitor, producing something. “ Very
pretty,” returned Mr. B., moving back a little bit;
“is it acorn-sickle or a scythe-iron ?” “This is,”
was the hoarse reply, “for Hanlon’s liver.” Then
they took his money in the front office, and
he departed. The next man came with poison,
which he intended mixing in Kavanagh’s
“ burgoo.” He said he did not expect, after
swimming on board the ship, to get back
alive. So ho left behind all the money he
had on him—except to pay for ids shroud and wind-
ing sheet—and because a subscriber to the Freeman
(prepaid) for 99 years. Under these circumstances
something extraordinary may be anticipated. But
if no complications eventuate, we can console our-
selves with the reflection that Mr. M’Girr will be
able to give us enough pikes to fence in our half-
acre paddock witli ; ana that Mr. Butler will never,
with tho collection of daggers lie has hidden
behind his “Votes and Proceedings,” see “this
little fiddle”—we mean this little office—want for
paper-knives.
Mr. James Devlin (of Harrison, Jones,
and Devlin.)
We give a portrait this week of Mr. James
Devlin, a member of the well-known firm
of Harrison, Jones, and Devlin, wool mer-
chants, of this city. Mr. Devlin was born at
Ryde, on the Parramatta River, and received
his education under the Rev. G. E. Turner.
He devoted himself, in early life, to pastoral
pursuits, and may be looked upon as one of
the pioneers of Jhe overland stock routes to
Victoria, South Australia, and Queensland.
After thoroughly acquainting himself with
practical pastoral work, Mr. Devlin started
business in the wool line, and eventually
joined the firm with which his name has been
prominently associated for the last fourteen
or fifteen years. Recently the firm’s busi-
ness was formed into a company, witn a
capital of £150,000, who with the present two
great warehouses, command a large and in-
creasing business in wool and produce; in
stock likewise their transactions being very
extensive. Mr. Devlin has him-
self for years with social and public events,
manifesting throughout his career large
public spiritedness and thorough straight-
forwardness.
A man up at Tenterfleld went and drank
fill he got delirium tremens, then cut a gash in his
throat with a piece of glass, and afterwards tried
to smash his head with a hammer. This comes of
drinking brandy. If he had only stuck to Sydney
rum, he would not have made such a mess of his
suiciding. The rum would have finished him with-
out the hammer.
The weights and measures Business has
frightened the butchers. Now, when you ask for
a pound of sausages and the tray doesn’t quite
come down, the butcher clutches hold of a vener-
able saveloy and squeezes out into the scales
enough to make it clank the counter. And, as he
does this principally with the thumb upon which
he cuts his tobacco, the advantage to the customer
is obvious.
It seems that the lunatic who shot the
sentry at Paddington went mad through reading
the Weekly Advocate. “That newspaper,” ho
said, “mnst be put down: and, if one plan don’t
succeed, I must try another.” We don’t rain. I telling
you that we never heard of the Weekly Advocate
before, but now we respect it. We hope it’s not
the Devil’s advocate. It has succeeded in driving
one man mad. This is a good beginning. The
only trouble now, though, is that they will have
to root round for another subscriber.
It is evident by the tone of Queensland
Figaro, that Bobby Byrne, who appeared before
the Chief Justice as defendant in a libel action
brought against him by Mr. Cowlishaw (one of the
proprietors of the Brisbane Telegraph), was so
full of his wrongs that he did not recollect at the
time that the moment a man gets angry he ceases
to amuse any but bis enemies. Here is a sample of
the commencement of a leading article, all of
which, by the way, is written in the first person
singular:—” Last Saturday’s Telegraph contained
a statement bearing direct personal reference to
me. I can only reply to it by stating that it was a
lie. Further, it was a wilful lie, that must have
been known to the paid liar of the Telegraph.” •
Here is another extract from another leader:—“ I
wouldn’t give you a pinch of snuff, after this evi-
dence, for all the influence the Cowlishaw Fish-
wife really possesses. My little Figaro can beat
the old hay-bag ‘ hands down.’ ” Evidently Bobby
hasn’t yet acquired the art of concentrating hi mself
The true weapon in newspaper warfare is ridicule,
with an undercurrent of satire. Burnand, in “Hap-
py Thoughts,” in the chapter on repartee, points
this out. You call a man a liar, we will say, in
order to draw him out. The man replies, “ You’re
another!” and you are necessarily floored. Bobby
should remember this. Vituperation is a weapon
now only used by dullards, and by the holy jokers
in white chokers on the religious papers. Why,
what does Falstaff say? “No abuse, Hal; none,
Ned, none. No, faith, boys, none.” Still, we can-
not deny that Bobby has received considerable
provocation. See what he writes —also in a
leader (I):—“ In last Tuesday’s Telegraph he goes
so far as to call me a Government spy, and to de-
clare that I have become so wealthy by (pre-
sumedly nefarious) dealings that I have ‘ started a
trap.’” “This,” as the prim man said of Mrs.
Raddle’s interruptions at Bob Sawyer’s party, “ is
hardly to be borne.” But, for all this, “ no abuse,
boy; none, no none!” r
“ Th y crime - girt, damned lepers, shall not
come
Upon this shore of ours. Our hands are
clean,
We will not redden them with blood ob-
scene,
Nor brook the sight of these, with voices
dumb.
“ Thine be the shame, not ours. They shall
not set
One crimson footmark on our land, that
now
Lifts to the world a broad, unbranded
brow,
With pleading drops of brother-blood un-
wet.
“We want no echo from the blackened
years
Of old oppression shut behind the foam,
To wake a living echo in our home,
And vex with strife our unaccustomed
ears.
“Take thine assassins back! Thus unto thee
We speak, in words than cannot be mis-
read;
And blush that this disgraceful thing is
/ said
By thy more English sons beyond the
sea!”
A MYSTERY.
Dead of night: moonless skies,
Darkness blacker than a pall
Over all;
Figure clad in sombre guise:
Long cloak, slouched hat that hid his face—
See, he listens for a space,
Now he hurries through the gloom,
Like a ghoul unto the tomb,
Shudders, pauses, then runs fast,
Reaches Clrc’lar Quay at lust.
What is this ? See he kneels
By the water, swears an oath,
Then with both
Hands uplifted, rises, reels,
Flings into the Hood below
Something—what, though, who shall know ?
Then with eyes that wildly glare,
In a horror-haunted stare,
Flies along the gloomy town
As though furies dragged him down.
Horror dread! Murder red!
What black mystery was here ?
What fell fear ?
Perhaps it hold a severed head,
The ghastly package drowned deep;
Perhaps of mangled limbs a heap—
Perhaps—you shudder! Ah, then, so
What it held we'll let you know,
For we were the man in black,
And the dread thing in the sack
Was—be calm, no sudden shocks—
The other boarder’s music-box.
NO!
pull-faced to England we will speak our
of the sons of those who
A.mi, 0 writing “Waterloo” with English
blood,
Paid the large wage, when Liberty was
bought.
We too, are English, of an equal heart
With them that, in that mighty battle-
the one Napoleon to the dust,
While all the world knelt round with lips
apart!
We have no records of a bygone flame,
No red-writ histories of woe to weep;
God set our laud in summer seas asleep,
Till His fair morning for her waking came.
He bid her where the rage of Old World
wars, , . . ,
Might never break upon her virgin rest;
ge gave his softest winds to fan her
breast,
And canopied her night with low-hung
stars.
He wrought her perfect, in a happy clime,
And held her worthiest and bade her
wait,
Serene on her lone couch inviolate,
The heightened manhood of a later time.
He decked her with his bounties manifold
Of teeming mine and yearning unsown
field.
And left her dreaming, till the years
should yield
A splendid dower of corn and wine and
gold.
While all the grey old lands told age on
age.
Of crime and bloodiness—while every
hand
Was lifted with a weapon, our sweet
land
Lav waiting, with a white, unwritten
page.
While deadly fungus-growths of Creed and
Caste,
Swelled on till nations’ hearts grew false
and dry,
And smoke of human offerings dunned
the sky,
Through blind and lurid ages overpast—
While Rome, Morocco, Greece, or Egypt
shone,
Each, in its day, a flame that waxed and
waned;
Our land with bosom unawaked, un-
pained,
Lay shining in an Orient sea, unknown.
Nor till the widening light of Freedom’s
day,
Showed men to walk erect and unafraid,
Was this great Isle uncovered and dis-
played
To wistful eyes of cold lands far away.
Then, from the thraldom oi: old sins and
tears,
From shambles of old crim e and wrong
and shame,
With eyes alight and eager hearts aflame,
Forth came the sturdy, manful Pioneers.
They found a gracious amplitsude of soil,
Unsown with memories, like poison-
weeds,
Of far-forefathers’ wrongs and vengeful
deeds—
Where was no Crown, save tht it of earnest
Toil.
They reared a sunnier England, where the
pain
Of bitter yesterdays might mot arise;
They said, “The Past is past, aaid all its
cries
Of time-long hatred, lie beyond the main,
“Here will we found a manlier English
race:
A world-like nation, strong; and kind and
free,
Whose name, through all t he after-time,
shall be
High among names unsullied, by disgrace.
“ We have no legacies of grand isire-hate,
No catalogue of murders u nrepaid,
No fierce unrest that will not be allayed
Shall hang around her n< ack, a leaden
weight.
“ About her brow shall twine no blood-won
bays;
No sound of war, or shoe k of clashing
arms
Shall come, where smiling villages and
farms
Give back the glances of the ’world’s love-
gaze.
“And, fenced apart by thtmst md-league-
long waves,
From ancient, ghastly, m Ossed , memorial
stones,
Our air shall be a glad one* where no
groans
Shall sound from woes th!it»1eep>‘ in far-off
graves.
“ And with fair Peace’s white’ trar*? .flag un-
furled,
Our children shall, upon this not v-won
shore,
Warned by all sorrows that har» gone
before,
Build up the glory of a grand Mew WoUld.”
So . w ®> to-day, stand sternly b y the sea.
And call across, with clear*. unfalterh ig
tongue,
io that imperial country whence wo
<i», .sprung:
Ams foul, un-English insult shall not be!
honour that, in 'years gone by,
Made Alfred’s England, hurt another
name
or Truth, so weakened that she does
An i 8 s kame,
d seeks to cloak the do Ing by a Lie ?
D °^might Same Englan(1 that go-'ve angry
To h 8w °rds like Cromwell’s, wetrk with
baser tools,
fools Ud ” ing her °* v ' n children) placid
®®nd murderers amor them in the I light ?
MR. JAMES DEVLIN, (op Messrs. Harrison, Jones and Devein.)


A German, Baron Reieheuback, has occu-
pied many years in studying the art of bed-making,
or rather bed-placing, ana maintains that impro-
perly placed beds will shorten a man’s life. He
says “ m whatever hemisphere you may be, always
sleep with your feet to the equator, and let your
body He ‘ true as a needle to the pole.’ The proper
direction of the body is of the utmost importance
for the proper circulation of the blood. To lie with
the body due east and west is tantamount to
suicide.’’ It’s excessive fun to read what these old
arm-chai German savam (they’re always savans,
you notice) write. All Baron Reichenbaoh has
to do, is to come and live in Monaro country,
camp out one frosty night, and sleep with his
head to the fire (north,) and his feet in that direc-
tion in which “ it is of the utmost importance
for the proper circulation of the blood they
should point.” He will learn more in three hours
than he has found out all this time. He will
dream his head is in gehenna and his feet
kicking the south pole. And he will wake, with
an icicle on every toe, and a stuffy cold in the hea ,
to the important discovery that he has been
for some twenty years making a hobby-ridden
fool of himself.
Thus Rev. J. Jefferis, LL.B., in his pro-
Pederation deliverance:—“ We have created uni-
versities with educational tests not inferior to
those of Oxford and Cambridge. We have dally
papers not unworthy to be placed on the same
fable with the Times. Is our physique degenerat-
ing? Australian athletes have again and again
been crowned with olive in the Olympian games of
England. Are there signs of waning intelligence ?
Let the Victorian oration we read in Sydney but
yesterday, so broad .In its view, so merciless in its
criticism, furnish a reply. And if it be thought a
weakness in that able address that it failed in doing
Justice to the Christian Churches, we will not for-
get that Judges were once special pleaders, and
that bad habits are not easily broken.*’ A neat hit
at Hlginbotham, a devilish neat hit, that about the
special pleading, and yet, dear Jefferis, before pick-
ing at the special pleading note in Hlginbotham’s
eye you should have removed the ditto beam
widen is so apparent In your own. For what is
any hired advocate of sectarian dogma but a very,
very, very special pleader ?
Some queer facts have, since the great
event, leaked out about the Vanderbilt Ball. A
well-known New York lady, Mrs. Bliss, went as a
Fairy Queen, in a costume that was not volumin-
ous, and consequently very interesting. All went
well till the lady happened to pass through Mrs.
Vanderbilt’s bath-room (where everything is solid
silver and crystal) when a girl turned on the water.
On being remonstrated with, the pert maid grinned
meaningly, and replied she had taken it for granted
Mrs. Bliss had come for a bath. Her photos in the
now famous “ bath-room costume” have sold enor-
mously, notwithstanding her efforts to stop them.
A well-known banker was so elated with the pro-
spect of the ball, and his own costume, which cost
£300, that he gave a supper to a party of friends
before he went. When ne arrived, his beautiful
satin waistcoat was unbuttoned, one coat tail was
torn off, and his hat was on wrong end foremost ;
but his face was radiant with beaming smiles. He
insisted on dancing in every set in the room, and
wanted to fight the waiters, until he fell asleep.
Some of the costumes of society ladles burning to
exhibit their charms were more remarkable for
what they revealed than what they concealed, and
as they had all been thoughtlessly photographed,
their pictures have been quietly circulated in a
most undesirable manner. W. H. Vanderbilt him-
self was an unwilling party to the ball up to the
last, and said it was “ all d—d nonsense, and very
little amusement for so much money.” The real
organiser of it was Lady Mandeville, not long ago
a poor girl in Virginia.
The revolting fashion in which the English
Bishops blend servility with bigotry is illustrated
by two facts. Their Lordships rolled up in force
to throw out the bill to enable people in general to
marry a deceased wife’s sister. But when, a few
years ago, a certain groat Duke married his de-
ceased wife’s sister, and had a son b> her, an Act
was passed through Parliament, establishing the
marriage as valid and legitimatising the son, the
Bishops carefully knew nothing about it, and let it
pass unopposed.
The Rev. Samuel Fox entertains the deep
conviction that every preacher of the Gospel of
Christ, who holds fast by the bones of doctrine,
will do more for the elevation of the human family
than a thousand men will do with a body without
bones, though they have the eloquence of all the
world. Fox possibly thinks that if there were no
bones there’d be no pickings. His plan is to hold
fast to the bones : and in one sense he’s right,
since if there were no dogmas there’d be no need
for Reverend Foxes.
The Bishop of Newcastle, who growls if
anybody else perverts a sentence from its context,
and insinuates dishonesty when a quotation a trifle
paraphrased is employed against his position,
doesn’t hesitate to maintain his own right to quote
the words of Unitarians or Anythingarians, bavins;
first wrung them from their context and in-
geniously made them to work into his argument.
He’s not to be blamed for his Ingenuity in pervert-
ing the prophets and purloining the psalms of
other sects and creeds so as to make them suit his
own| book, but blamed he does deserve to be
for his disingenuousness in abusing Bright,Hughes,
and Co. for acting in a precisely similar way.
The Bible Christians had a church in a
little place called Numurkah, about two hundred
miles north of Melbourne, and the way they used
to grind out thsir devotions made the turnips that
frew in the next paddock soft in the heart,
rederick Mann, the owner of the paddock, averred
that the praying ruined him last season. Being a
pious man himself, he did what he could in a quiet
way to shift his paddock half a mile away across
country. Unfortunately, ho was not successful;
and so he prayed to Heaven for light. He got it —
or, rather, took it. He brought it to the church of
the Bible Christians one night, and put it between
the weatherboards. The result was satisfactory.
There is no church there now. But this son of a
man is in the lockup at Wahgunyah. He protests
that he only obeyed Heaven.
The Wide Bay Times says that “ mission-
aries know more about New Guinea than they care
to tell.” We should like to know the island they
don’t know more about than they would care to
tell With charming simplicity the Herald says;
“ The most amusing part of our criminal record is,
nearly every criminal in our prisons claims
brotherhood in one or other of the churches.”
That’s the amusing part, as the old lady says. The
astonishing part would be if “ nearly every crimi-
nal ” didn’t.
Beecher says that if a rational Sunday is
not soon introduced, “ an outraged public opinion
Will demand the abolition of its religious obser-
vance.” We have off and on been telling
people the same for years Henry Ward Beecher
is a fat man, with an immense corporation, and a
pair of short and stumpy legs. He wobbles un-
gracefully in the street, his trousers are always too
short, and terminate in ponderous feet. His coat
Is often dusty, and his linen not perfect. His face
is red and full, cheeks hanging down below the
jaw, eyes sluggish and heavy. Beecher wears a
slouch hat and straggling grey hair. But when he
talks, then the charm of eloquence and genius is
experienced by the listener.
The Melbourne ladles, still in advance of their Syd-
ney sisters, are irapoi ting Hindoo servants to supply
the local deficiency of the article. If a similar
movement should not be made here, it will not be
for want of cause. Volumes might be written on
the subject of the eccentricities of our hand-
maidens, only nobody would read them when
written. The theme would lack the charm of
novelty. I could a tale unfold regarding a few of
the little peculiarities of the “helps.” Or a middle-
aged lady of the general servant species, whose
charms could never, in the early blush of youth,
have been an alarmingly dangerous possession to
their owner—indeed had the face of this interesting
specimen been her only fortune poverty must have
been her lot till the end of her davs—who objected
to enter the family of a lady with some grown-up
sons because she (the maiden) had heard that
the young gentlemen were “ fast,” and, however
careful a girl (?) might be, still there are
temptations, etc. Of another young lady
who answered an advertisement, but on being
asked for her testimonials, after scrutinising the
surroundings of the house very carefully, replied
that it was “ hardly worth while producing the re-
quired documents, for she did not think she liked
that part of the street” Of catechisms put by
these necessary evils to trembling candidates for
the highly paid honour of their services, as to the
neighbourhood, distance from church, number of
visitors, &c.; of young ladies who profess to be
general servants, but cannot undertake washing
or ironing, and require fourteen shillings a week
for wages. Very few of these so-called general
servants will condescend to go on an errand, no
matter how urgent the necessity. The penalty of
asking the performance of such a service is notice
on the spot. The being required to clean an extra
pair of boots has been known to bring about a
similar result, namely, a week’s notice from the
maiden. Ladies in the country frequently send to
Sydney for servants, and offer £1 a week to those
of the “ general” species, but can seldom induce
any to expose their precious persons to the
terrors of the “bush.” Cookery is the only de-
partment of household work to which John China-
raam, of countenance childlike and bland, seems to
turn his attention. Most of the stations in the
country have Chineso cooks. Their propensities
for gambling and opium-eating are drawbacks to
their usefulness, though they are undeniably skil-
ful in their particular une.
The sea was gurly, as in the ballad of “ Sir
Patrick Spens”—the w ind whs howling like a demon
in the horrors—the night was ebon-dark. Suddenly
a mighty wave struck the steamer amidships.
“Captain, captain,” cried the mate, “ we shall have
to throw something overboard to right her.”
“ Pitch over the heaviest things you can find,”
yelled the captain. It was done. Still the steamer
was slowly sinking. Iron-bound boxes, bags of
ballast—everything was taken out of the hold and
flung over the side. But in vain. The vessel con-
tinued to sink lower and lower in the water. Then
the mate dashed into the saloon. “This is the
Jonah!” he screamed, snatching a book out of the
hand of a grey-headed gentleman, who was reading
it to a number of passengers who were in a dead
sleep all around the table. The book was entitled
“ Murmurs of the Stream.” “ Never while I have
life!” shrieked the grey-haired gentleman. He was
the author. So they threw author and book over-
board ; and they both sank at such speed that they
broke through the bottom of the sea, and the water
rushed in and put out the fire that till then had been
considered eternal. And the devil clutched the
book, and read two pages—and died; and the author
was immediately elected in his place. Then the lost
souls were stricken with ague and rheumatism and
colds in the head, and yelled for the fire again. But
there was no more fire. Then they fell upon Dives,
and tore his soul into twenty-five thousand immor-
tal pieces, because they said it was his continual
cajlfng to his friends for water that had brought
t liis deluge upon them. The fire was out for ever.
The horror of the book hung darkly over Hades.
Then the lost souls lied, and entered the bodies of
parsons who—now that their means of living had
been taken from them—straightway turned mem-
bers of Parliament. And the author was left alone
reading his book astride the corpse of the devil.
And—then wo awoke with our feet in the ashes
and our head in the bath-tub.
This is what the New York Post thinks
of Joe Cook: “There is, probably, no person pro-
fessing to be educated who has brought so much
discredit upon the American mind as Joseph Cook.
His gross ignorance, his incorrect reports of the
opinions of foreign philosophers and thinkers,
have done much to disgrace the reputation of the
country among those whose opinion is worth
anything.” This is a nice pill for the people who
made so much of him when he was out here. The
American people are to blame, however, for the
existence of Joe Cook —they should have slain him
Immediately after they heard his first lecture. He
has, in all likelihood done more harm to the cause
of religion than a score of freethinking orators.
He has run it as a circus—made it sensational.
Next time he comes out we suppose he will run it
as the cholera or the measles.
The wise man’s duty in all this raging
storm of theologic contest—of conflicting dicta
and clashing dogmata—is simply to do his duty as
an inhabitant of this world. Then, if there be an-
other or other worlds, he who has done his duty
here will (the odds are) be best fitted for doing it
there. And if there be none other, he will at least
have done what he could: acted like a man, in-
stead of humbugging around in fanciful prepara-
tion for a non-existent state of angelhood. Faith
in this world, that it is good and may be made
better, combined with a resolution to stand or fall
by the nobler hypothesis, is better than the bastard
faith of the theologian, which is nothing more
than a willingness to assent to vague assertions on
insufficient evidence. In this sense, Thomas Paine’s
“The world is my county, to do good my religion,”
is a pregnant text.
It was to express thought (in opposition to
Talleyrand’s dictum) and not conceal it that lan-
guage was given to Mr. Justice Hlginbotham. No
such flutter has been created in religious dovecots
on this side of the line as he caused by his recent
lecture. The parsons are furious—the elders incon-
solable. The amount of truth in an accusation
may often be roughly gauged by the effect it has
on the accused. It they remain calm and dignified
it is possible the charge may be entirely malicious.
If, on the contrary, they get excited and abusive,
foam at the mouth, and shake their fists in the
witness’ face—it is primd facie evidence of guilt.
It was bad enough for Mr. Hlginbotham to deliver
the lecture he did under any circumstances. To
deliver it to a Presbyterian Assembly, presided
over by a Presbyterian clergyman, and in a Pres-
byterian church, was the refinement of cruelty.
And so the “Meenlsters” are now staggering
under war-paint and feathers. The Presbytery of
the Scots Church (where the lecture was given)
have opened fire by describing the discourse as
“ an attempt to undermine Christian belief . . .
a plausibly insidious attack on Christianity.”
About this latter clause there is the true seven-
teenth century ring. It bridges over two hundred
years. Collins-street. Melbourne—Sydney—the en-
tire southern hemisphere, are left behind, and we
are again in that wild “ land of the mountain and
the flood,” which has given the world more fanatics
and philosophers than any other place of double
its population. Again, we see asceticism spreading
over the country like a deadly twilight. We see
the light crushed out of life, and the extraordinary
spectacle of a proud and virile race consenting to
sit in abject fear at the feet of ignorant ghostly
tormentors. Then we see David Hume, and those
who preceded and followed him, severing some of
the tentacles from this sacerdotal octopus; and, by
and by, wo awake from our reverie to find our-
selves in Sydney, with the statements of Higin-
botham and the anathemas of the clergy ringing
in our ears. Of course, the Rev. Charles strong is
in it again. He is “strong ” against a good many
things—especially prejudices—and has succeeded
better than any preacher east of the Greenwich
meridian in keeping the elders of his congregation
in water which is quickly advancing towards 212’.
Almost beyond belief.
The daily Tribune, of Chicago, Illinois, the
largest and most influential newspaper in the
western part of the United States of America
published the following editorial item:—
“ Having heard the name of Mr. Wesley Sisson
the well-known lawyer of this city, mentioned fil
conn, ction with a remarkable cure, the reporter
visited him at his office, at No. 169, Washington-
street. The statement which the reporter heard
here was so wonderful that, had it come from a
less reliable source, it would have been deemed
hardly trustworthy. The gentleman stated that
during the summer months he paid a visit to Mo-
bile, Alabama, and that while there he must have
become affected by the malarial vapours which
abound on the Gulf coast, as after his arrival home
three months ago, he took sick with the rheuma-
tism. The malady attacked him in the back and
thighs, where it was sciatic in its nature, and in
the arms and shoulders, where it was of the in-
llammatory type. After weeks of agony, which
three successively-called doctors failed to cure, ho
was recommended to buy the St. Jacobs Oil, and
after much opposition on his part, as he did not
believe that any externally applied remedy could
help so stubborn and serious a case, he consented
and sent for a couple of bottles. At this time his
condition was pitiable. The sciatic pains, which
arising in the base of the backbone, extended
through - the muscles of both legs and Into the
knee, were caused by the slightest attempt of his
to move in bed ; while his arms and shoulders were
so affected that he could not even feed himself
The first application of the new remedy ended the
trouble in the shoulders, and brought slight relief
to the sciatic pains. After two bottles had been
used a further marked improvement was fell, and
in another week he was cuted, and able to go to
his office and attend to his business—30 pounds
lighter in weight than when he was first attacked
with sickness ; but,, thanks to four bottles of at.
Jacobs Oil, a well man. Mr. Sisson was enthu-
siastic in his laudation of the remedy, which he
hoped would be sought by all who were suffering
as he had been, and he said that he could not find
words in which to express his gratitude for his
cure. At the same time he produced a letter
which he had written to the proprietors of the
remedy, describing the wonderful nature of his
cure, the closing paragraph of which ran as
follows : —‘ If any person afflicted as I was desires
a stronger testimonial, I shall tell them, if they
call upon me, to give St. Jacobs Oil a fair trial;
and 1 now feel as though I could assure them the
same grateful and speedy relief that I have ex-
perienced.’ It should be added that Mr. Sisson
had vainly tried a variety of complicated and
painful treatments in the form of baths, cuppings,
&c., which had brought no relief, and that he was
on the point of going to Hot Springs, when he was
induced to try the St. Jacobs Oil, with the happy
results already described.”
A Steamship Officer’s
Statement.
Sydney Harbour, July 13,1883.
Messrs. Publishers Evening News,
Gentlemen :—
For the benefit of the general public, I beg to
state that I have used St. Jacobs Oil for acute
Neuralgia in the face, and obtained astonishing re-
lief. I am satisfied that this remedy is a first-class
thing. One of the cooks on board the 8.S. City of
New York, was also cured of very severe Rheuma-
tism by a few applications of this same article. In
my 20 years’ experience on the sea, I have found
nothing that I can so highly recommend for the
cure of pains as St. Jacobs Qjl.
Very respectfully.
WM. H. HAWES.
Second Officer P.M.S.S. City of New Fork.
To Whom it May Concern.
Hobart, Tasmania, 8.S. Tasman, Feb. 31,1883.
I wish to certify to the efficacy of “ St. Jacobs
Oil,” as used on a fractured knee, which was oc-
casioned some five years since. I have never felt
the sligntest pain since using the above, while
formerly I suffered with every change of weather.
You are at liberty to use this as you may think
proper.
T. H. WILLIAMS
Chief Engineer.
How a Victorian Struck Oil.
Weinberg-road, Hawthorn, Victoria,
November 35, 1883.
Messrs. Publishers,—Gentlemen: I have much
Eleasure in informing you of the good effects I
ave experienced from the use of St. Jacobs Oil
for family purposes. My little son sprained his
knee, which was much swollen. I applied the oil
several times a day, and he was very soon able to
run about as usual. We have also used it for sore
throats, with most satisfactory results. It also
cures mosquito bites, and those of any other in-
sect. 1 have recommended it to several persons,
who have been much pleased with the relief it has
afforded them in various ailments, sore heads,
toothache, &c. I use it now as a household
remedy.
I am, dear sir, yours faithfully,
NOEL DE LEON.
A Kingdom for a Horse!
American Trotting Stock Agency,
73, Little Collins-street East, Melbourne, Victoria.
To the readers of the Sydney News :—
Some short time ago I was unfortunate enough
to be suffering from a very severe Ulcerated Bore
Throat, made worse by my own neglect. After
trying all the usual remedies prescribed in such
cases, with no beneficial effect, I was induced
(reluctantly I must confess, having up to that
time had a prejudice against all so called patent
remedies), to give St. JACOBS OIL a trial. To my
great astonishment, after only two or three ap-
plications, carefully following the instructions,
rny throat got considerably better, and before the
bottle was empty I was ENTIRELY CURED.
Having experienced such great benefit, I consider
it simply my duty to bear this testimony to the
usefulness as a general household remedy of this
valuable Oil.
E. W. CLARKE
Representative Spirit of the Times.
New York, TJ. S. A.
A Stockbroker’s Fortunate
Investment.
Sandhurst, Victoria
Gentlemen,—For a considerable time I suffered
from acute rheumatism. I tried remedies in-
numerable, without experiencing relief. At the
solicitation of a personal friend, I was prevailed
upon to try your St. Jacobs Oil. After two appli-
cations the pain modified, and before the bottle
was half finished the complaint entirely disap-
peared.
You are at liberty to give any publicity to this
testimony of the efficacy of your justly celebrated
remedy.
Yours obediently,
JAS. O’BRIEN
Stock and Share Broker, Sandhurst, Victoria.
Genuineness Guaranteed.
£100 REWARD. —A cash reward of one hundred
pounds will be paid by the Charles A. Vogeler
Company of Baltimore, Maryland, United States of
America, proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by their
accredited local representatives, to any person
producing proof to the effect that the testimonials
published by them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are
not strictly genuine. St. Jacobs Oil conq uers pain.
It cures Rhematism, Neuralgia, Headache, Tooth-
ache, Backache, and all similar ailments. Sold by
Druggists and Chemists everywhere. Price in
New South Wales, half-a-crown a bottle. Direc-
tions for use in eleven languages. Elliott
Brothers, Sydney, Wholesale Depot for N.S.W,
THE MARRIAGE OF LOUISE.
Let’s sing the wedding of Louise,
In strains both blithe and gay;
And if you do not like our song,
Just turn your heads away.
The bride she wore the jewels of
The Queen of “ Cymbeline; "
And bravely gleamed in Desohappelles
The white robe of Pauline.
Her smile, it was a Juliet one,
Were not her flowers gay ?
The wreath that floats adown the stream,
Ophelia ’art and say!
Her gloves, tqn buttons, were Camille’s—
We do these gloves no wrong—
Clasped were they when Louise could not
Get raisin from Armong.
And Arthur —he, who did wed with
The beauteous Pomeroy-
Looked Alroy-t in the frock coat that
Had often deck’d D’Alroy.
Belvawney’s shoes encased his feet;
Composed his face, though pale;
He wore the oadie that Diibosq
Sports In the “ Lyons Mall.”
That necktie—a pure lavender—
It was, we’ll tell you flat,
De Lesparre’s tie in “ Led Astray,”
In fact, his “stock” cravat.
The shoes that shone so bright in “ Pique; ”
And by those golden clocks,
We’d bet a gleaming sockspence that,
Duval had worn those socks.
The bridesmaids—ah, the dear young things!
They feel disposed to faint;
And all look fresh aa—hang it, where’s
A simile—oh I—paint.
Three confidantes, who, when she prays,
All kneel and sob and pray;
And after kneeling, he that s Nelld
Does give the bride away.
All drink “the bride,” and as they each
Print on her cheek a kiss,
She gazes on the bric-k-brao,
But only thinks of “ Brick.”
“ Thunder! ” thinks she, although apart,
His patience this will tax;
I ax’d him not a little yet,
He has a little axe.
" Good-bye! ” “good luck! ’’—all seem to have
Hearts light as any feather—
The guests are gone, and we will now
The curtain drop together.


For the sum of JB70 prompt net cash.
You can furnish a house as follows:
DRAWING ROOM.
£
Full suite of nine articles, namely:—
Couch, lady’s easy chair, arm chair,
The Furniture Column.
A SPECIAL MONTH, the month of August,
at
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
Just make a note of this,
OUR REVISED £70 LIST.
s. d.
rings, pins, and
and six small chairs
Centre table
Plate glass back sideboard ...
Gilt frame pier glass
Pair oil paintings
Cornice pole, with
brackets
amp
Eight-day striking clock
Ornaments
Fender and Irons
yards fancy matting
Velvet pile hearthrug
Door slip
DINING ROOM.
Austrian suite, consisting of couch, two
arm chairs, and 6 small chairs
Oval dining table
Cheffonier
Matting
Hearthrug
Fender and irons
Door slip
BEDROOM No. 1.
Handsome four post (4ft. 6in.) tubular
bedstead
Pair palliasses
Wool flock mattress
Bolster
Two feather pillows
Polished cedar seven-drawer chest of
drawers
Towel rah washstand
White and gold toilet set
Fern water caraffe
Toilet table with drawer
Toilet glass
Table toilets
Two cane chairs
Rocking chair
Matting
Door slip
BEDROOM No. 2.
Half tester bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster
Flock pillow
Chest of drawers
Washstand and set
Water caraffe
Toilet glass
C. 8. chair
Matting
Door slip
SERVANT’S ROOM.
Bedstead
Pair palliasses
Mattress
Bolster and pillow
Washstand and set
Table
Glass
Chair
Matting
KITCHEN.
Table with drawer
Pine safe
Two chairs
12 meat plates
12 pudding plates
13 cheese plates
Pair vegetable dishes
Gravy boat
Meat dishes, Is, Is 9d, 2s 8d, 3s
Pie dish
China tea pot
Six China cups and saucers
Six China plates
China sugar basin
China milk jug
China butter dish
China slop basin...
Six China egg cups
Two bread and butter plates
Bell-top cruet
Set of table mats
Pair cut salt cellars
Set of jugs
Pair of decanters
Cut-glass water bottle
Six cut wines
Six cut tumblers
Six soda glasses
Six Mosley’s dinner knives ...
Six nickel dinner forks
Six Mosley’s dessert knives
Six nickel dessert forks
Six tea spoons ...
Six dessert spoons
Two table spoons
Kettle
Boiler ... ...
Saucepans, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s
Frying pan
Grid-iron
Tea-pot
Tea-caddy
Coffee-pot
Colander
Bread grater
Wash basin
Dipper
Tuns, fts, 0s 0d
Buckets, Is 9d, 2e
Wash-board
Two candlesticks
Baking dishes, 8d, lOd
Pepper caster
Flour dredge
Cake tin
Flour barrel
Set skewers
Bread crock
Nutmeg grater
Maat stand
Cook’s fork
a beater
e box
Paste board and roller
Patent bex iron or pair of flat irons ...
Pair bellows
Hair broom
Hand broom
Dust pan
Scrub brush
Knife board and polish
Set shoe brushes
Kitchen spoon
Canister
NEXT WEEK THE £100 LIST WILL APPEAR.
CARPETS,
For
FLOORCLOTHS,
MATTINGS
and all kinds of
TABLE and BED LINEN
visit our
GENERAL FURNISHING DRAPERY DEPART-
MENT.
Campbell Brothers,
Royal Furnishing Arcade,
426 fiEORSE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEXT THE ROYAL HOTEL.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
When Henniker Heaton was asked to make
little speech at a public banquet at Amsterdam,
?. begged off in these touching words:—“ Je vou-
drais si je coudrais mais je ne cannais pas.”
One of the richest men in this colony has
made his will, which disposes of a good many hun-
dreds of thousands, in favour of the Presbyterian
Church, two ministers of which will also benefit to
a very large extent, should the old gentleman (who,
besides his own huge fortune, has inherited those
of his two deceased brothers) not change his mind.
The tallest Princess in the world is the
Crown Princess of Denmark. She is six feet two
ihches high. If she is built proportionately, she
must have nearly twice as much blue blood, too, as
mv other princess living Just now. She is likely
to remain single. There are no suitors who dare
aspire to her hand—unless they brought a ladder.
“ The income of Fred. Archer, the jockey,
now exceeds that of the Archbishop of Canter-
bury.” But, then. Fred. Archer is a first-class
lockey, and Dr. Benson is only a second-class
orelate. Archer rode clean through his horses ;
nr Benson only got out of the ruck by the influ-
ence of the obscure German gentleman who did us
the honour of marrying our Queen.
The “Vagabond,” in his latest roundabout,
«avs: “ I would like to He over at Timaru for a
nisht.” Now, why there especially ? We gave
him credit for the possession of a true cosmo-
nolitan spirit, and thought him one of those men
ready to do it anywhere without indulging invidi-
ous preferences. It may have been only a passing
weakness, however, as he seems to be doing it now
enthusiastically in New Caledonia.
“Leo Plania,” of Sydney, says he has
discovered perpetual motion. We have heard of
Leo Plania when he used to call himself the Lion of
the Tribe of Judah, otherwise the genuine Mes-
siah He says the machine he can construct
irathers power of itself as time rolls on. Leo Plania
in not the only Jew who has invested such a ma-
chine. What is a promissory note, if notan example
of perpetual motion? This is our experience,
anyhow.
The Echo, with a force of imagination
which would do credit to the Rum in its most sen-
sational moments, says there is a marvellous simi-
larity in the three cases—Clncinnatus to his plough,
Uellsarlus to his wallet, Parkes to his broker's
scrip- Vivid indeed must be the conception that
can trace the faintest likeness between a foxy poli-
tical dodger and the two best Homans of them all -
not to mention that the bag with the superscrip-
tion, “Give an obolus to poor old Belisarius.” is a
tradition of no historic value.
There’s another statue and poetic obituary
advertisement wanted now. William Gately, Esq.,
C M.G., who once held the proud position of flogger
and hangman in Victoria, and who was so graphi-
cally described by “The Vagabond” in his papa-
on Pontridge, has just dropped off at Roma (Q.)
Gately was an old Tasmanian convict, and a perfect
wild beast. Tune up, Alfred:—
“ Fairer than the flowers above thee
Nestling on thy still cold breast,
Placed by gentle hands that love thee,
Hanging William’s gone to rest.”
Smiths would seem to be at a sad discount
just now. Kearnan, the alleged informer, roaming
the deck of the Pathan. and calling out, “ Smith,
Smith, who says my name’s Smith ? I’ll punch the
head of any man who calls me Smith,” was a sign
of the times. He was as tractable as a lamb if you
call -d him M’Gladrigan or Beelzebub. In fact, he
was willing to sit on your knee if you called him
Be izebub. But Smith—that set his teeth on e 'ge.
Poor snspcctl If he only knew how many men
must bear the name of Smith, must carry it with
them through this vale of tears, and must be pre-
pared to hear, as soon as they put their red noses
Inside t :e gate of Paradise, “ Come along, Smith!”
Benjamin Purser, a graduate of Dublin
University, and a well-known teacher of classics,
was carried to the Melbourne hospital last week,
and went silently through the gates of darkness.
He had only passed the morning of life, and those
who touched him felt the warmth of living blood,
and the throb of a generous pulse. At 41 years of
ajfe he went out among the authors abou whom
he was so eloquent in Dublin and at Portarlington.
He is with them now. The Temperance orators
have only a memory of him, and this memory they
have not been slow to hang up for public exhibi-
tion. We are to take warning, they tell us, by
II njamin Purser. Yes, yes; the orators will live
to be grey-headed. A sovereign may be battered
nut to be the size of a crown. Is there more gold
in the coin ? Fata enntraria fatis rependans!
Q. W. Hall, fhe whip of the Servic e-cum-
Rerry party, has taken to the light fantastic lately.
From a cock-fight to a polka in a hotel parlour he is
the recognised patron among his constituents
They had a “ hop” at Benalla a few nights ago,
“under the distinguished patronasro of G. W.
Hall, Esq. M.L.A. An economical genius,
thinking gasoline cheaper than kerosene, rigged
up the contrivance, and the company jumped into
the middle of the floor. But suddenly, in the
opening of the third figure of the Lancers, the gas
went out. The M.C. swears lie yelled “set to
partners" at the juncture, but the company under-
stood him to say “ kiss your partners.” Every-
body was sure every other body was striking a
match, so frequent and vigorous were the per-
cussions that ensued. In the vicinity of the patron
a whole box must have been wasted. Still there
was no light. And there would have been no light
till morning only Mrs. Hall came in with a candle.
She did not tell what she saw, but when the “ whip”
appeared the other night in the House he had a
weary far-off look in his eyes and his beard was like
adraggled petticoat. He only talks in whispers
about that light fantastic, but cheers up a bit when
you mention the fantastic light.
“The time has come when class can no
longer stand aloof from class ; and that man does
his duty best who works most earnestly in bridging
over the gulf between different classes,” said the
Prince ot Wales at the opening ot a Hoyal College
of Music. And they are true words, though they
come somewhat unexpectedly from a prince. But
classes are certainly merging. One peer sells milk,
while dozens of them sell coal. The Earl of Shrews-
bury Is a cab-master, having a number of cabs
plying for hire in London streets, and Lord Sudeley,
who two years ago planted an estate of 340,000 fruit
trees and 50 acr of strawberries, has now com-
pleted a large jam manufactory in Gloucestershire,
and is t tnrtmg the industry like any other trades-
man. Lord Gus is “ in the poultry.” Per contra,
kammy Wilson, an old chock-and-log fencer, keeps
up state at Hughenden, and entertains royalty in
Belgravia. Yes, classes are certainly merging,
the Prince of Wales lately shook hands with a
workhig-man, John Davies will nod to a Chinaman,
and Cupid Smith still has the umbrella he held
over the holy head of a prince.
Once again the Bard of Mantua comes
monumentally up in Melbourne. At last meet-
of the university Council a letter was read
*rom the Mwrquis di Bagno, asking help to pur-
ooase a headstone. The Council found itself inca-
pable of definite action and characteristically
ordered the letter to be stuck on the notice board,
“la there now. staring at the pockets of learned
colonials. There is soinethir g pathetic in this
uagno epistle, coming all the way across the work!
m remind the scholars of Victoria that money is
wanted on behalf of the author of the “ J3neid.”
i here is also some finesse in the Mantuan committee
"bo first appealed to us through “ a person named
No doubt they had read Mark Twain, and
■m the principle on which he dedicated his book to
hear Smith,” they had promised themselves a
multitudinous response. The substitution of a
.Py® 6 board for “ Smith” is also deeply suggestive,
«nu is evidence that the same train of thought is
umng ca rr i e d out, if not by the Marquis, by the
e?-, If would be interesting to know what
bhade of Virgi 1 thinks of it all, and how he
mupares the Maecenas he once knew with the
■uacfen-assos he know hears about—the great Ipse
a donation from each Melbourne
They are making some fun up North about
that pattern legislator, Tom Price. We were hav-
ing a tear through the Wide Bay district at the
close of the last general elections, and, coming into
the neighbourhood of Tiaro, we expressed a to
interview the hums natures. It was easy enough
to accomplish. “That’s him in his shirt sleeves,”
said Cobb’s Jehu. But it was Tom interviewed us.
“ Come In, gentlemen, come in ; breakfast’s steam-
ing ’ot. Look lively, old woman ; here’s for a
square feed ! My hotel can't be licked.” During
breakfast, the £3,000,000 loan, which was then the
big cry, was discussed, and some of the party had
doubts as to whether the colony could repay It.
“ What about repaying it?” cried the member.
“The whole point is how to get it. I’d go for
twice that if I saw a show.” “ Rut we must pro-
mise to pay it back, and how can we do it.”
“ Promise away, promise away ; get the money
and stick to it. Why. there’s that man sitting at
the side of the table, he has been boarding with me
for months and months—he is a member of the
Civil service. He has been always promising to
pay me, but I never saw a red cent from him yet.”
And the gentleman referred to went on with his
chop in silence.
Few novels have had more engrossing
interest for youngsters than those of Gustave
Aimard. He has died in a madhouse. And few of
the wildest works of fiction could have been
stranger than his own eventful history. He was
the unavowed son of the Duchess de Royigo, one of
the oldest aristocratic families in Prance, and his
father was the violent and reckless Marshal Sebas-
tian!, one of Napoleon Bonaparte’s officers and
countrymen. His adventurous disposition soon
led Gustave to wander, and, in the far West of
America, he saw the scenes so exaggeratlngly
described in his many novels. But these books
were far too rapidly, to be well, written. Aimard
never stopped to think, or to be precise; imagina-
tion was vivid, and impressions were strong with
him, and he turned off novel after novel till his
brain became poor. At last it gave way. One of
his manias at the last was his high ancestry, and an
imaginary claim to the crown of Corsica. He wrote
altogether about 170 volumes of fiction. During
the siege of Paris, Aimard organised a corps of
journalistic free shooters. Personally brave, he
was a kind of imitation of the “supreme” heroes
he had so often created in his books ; but the
other press-warriors exhibited so much tender
solicitude for their skins as to be more at home in
a boulevard caf6 than on the gory field of carnage.
They preferred to hide behind the skirts of the
barmaids.
The O’Kane is wading in it again. Up his
way there was an entertainment given in aid of
the Australian Natives’ Association. It was under
the patronage of the Mayor and Aldermen. This
was the initial fact that started O’K. on his de-
structive mission. He calls it a piece of “ flunkey-
ism.” But the objection to this “ patronage”
business is mild when compared with the contempt
in which Mr. O’Donnell’s address was held. The
address stated that one of the Association objects
was to “remove prejudices against the natives.”
On this, O’K. remarks “ What should we think of
a body of Englishmen in England, or Irishmen in
Ireland, or Scotchmen in Scotland forming them-
ing themselves into a society to remove the pre-
judice of foreigners landing on their shores ! The
natives of Australia stand on their natal soil, and
they should have a proper pride in being natives,
not seek to remove any one’s prejudice.” There is
the true ring of common sense ! But, after this
little preliminary canter, it is only a fair as-
sumption that the critique on the performance
will be severe. Here is part of it: “The Lady of
Lyons, was executed in artistic style. The several
actors and actresses were got up gorgeously, but
they kept all the fun to themselves. They might
have heard what they said, but it was all dumb
show to the audience.” It is clear from this that
i he performance of the “Lady of Lyons’’ by Queens-
land amateurs is by no means calculated to re-
move prejudices against the natives.
A touching picture of the strict discipline
to which the Prince of Wales was subjected when
a child, comes to us from a German paper. It was
at Windsor Castle. Miss Hillyard, the Prince’s
instructress,—“ an earnest and pious person,” the
paper says—observed that, instead of learning his
lesson, her Royal student was “ looking into the
garden and playing with his fingers on the win-
dow.” She mildly asked him to get to work. He
answered by putting his foot through one pane of
glass and his fist through another. There were but
three panes in the window, and as the Royal child
was going for the third one with his head, his
teacher interfered and told him to stand in a
corner, fie drew himself up to his full height and
proudly observed: “I am the Prince of Wales.”
“ I don’t care a single ,” said the lady, forget-
ting her allegiance, manners, and grammar in her
passion ; “if you was the Angel Gabriel himself,
you’ll have to stand in that there corner.” But he
was still obdurate, and so the Prince Consort was
sent for. The fond father came at once bringing a
Bible He also brought a birch. Taking the heir
to the British Empire on his knee, he read to him
from Gal. iv. 3 : “ Now I say that the heir, so
long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a
servant, though he be the lord of all; but is under
tutors and governors until the time appointed by
his father.” Turning then to Proverbs, Prince
Albert read on: “ He that spareth the rod hateth
his son.” With the discernment of childhood,
“Wales” grasped the situation at once, while his
father grasped the rod. After his temporary in-
version, the boy stood in the corner, and for the
remainder of the day evinced no desire for a chair.
Poor old Judge Skinner has at last doffed
his wig, rolled up his gown, and vamoosed the
Victorian Bench. He carries away a pension of
£750 a year, and no one grudges it to him. He has
been dabbling in law this last thirty-four years,
and has >been holding the balance up above for a
quarter of a century. He was a irascible as a
monkey with a hot copper, and caught “the hang”
of a case when he saw witnesses. “ Yes,”
he cried, in a recent dispute about the qualities of
a pair of horses, “I know it, Mr. Witness, I know
it. You are going to swear the horses are angels,
and the five witnesses that are to follow will swear
the identical same words; and then the six
witnesses on the other side are coming up to swear
the horses are regular demons.” “ But, your
Honor .” “ I don’t want any of your impertin-
ence, Mr. Pleader, but, for form’s sake, I’ll listen.”
And, as each witness marched down from the
box, the old Judge would open his eyes and ex-
claim, “ There now! Didn’t I tell you ? There’s
ray notes, and I took them before he spoke a
word!” We saw him in another County Court in
the country where there was great delay in getting
principals or witnesses when a case was called on.
It could not be said that he lost his temper, for
there is no record that he carried any luggage of
that description when he came out in ’56. But now
and again he plaintively cried, “ So much for hav-
ing a public-house on the opposite side of the
street! If we sold drinks on the Bench,they would
be all here!” “ The Bar is here already,” said the
facetious Purves. The Judge looked wltheringly
at the “paid liar,” and then toddled over to nis
whisky bottle for an antidote to the vile pun, and
returned, saying; “Very true, Mr. Purves, very
true; but the spirit is wanting, the spirit. Ha!”
Henry S. Leigh (whose name we in Aus-
tralia have often see subscribed to newspaper
and magazine, is dead. He is the author of
“London Lyrics.” “Jeux d’Esprit,” and many
verses, (a few of them as dainty as Locker’s,
Alf. Austin’s or Praed’s), other volumes of
vers de society, some which may he stated
to have hardly escaped mediocrity. Besides
this, he was the adapter of numberless spectacular
pieces from the French, few, if any, of which suc-
ceeded. His two last efforts—“Le Voyage a La
Lune ” at Her Majesty’s, and “ King Mathuselah”
at the Folies Dramatlques—were pitiful “ frosts.”
His services were chiefly in request at the Alham-
bra, where the plays produced are chiefly dependent
on their success to introduced ballets, spectacular
display, and the appearance on the stage as figur-
antes of all the principal members of the demi-
monde. Mr. Leigh was, it is said, a singularly kind-
hearted and amiable man ; but he has written
nothing that will live. Indeed, he may be said to
have himself outlived the best of his productions.
Mr. Arthur Mathison, another librettist of the
same calibre as Mr. Leigh, has also, we regx - et to
say, been gathered to his uncles. Mathison, how-
ever, will be remembered for a good while by his
“ Little Hero,” a crudely told but dramatic poem,
which has (to our discomfiture) been long the rage
with amateur elocutionists. Mr. Mathison was an
actor as well as an author, but his acting was about
on a par with his poetry. He likewise wrote a
number of plays, which, though profusely praised
by his friends the critics (of which he was one, by
the bye), were relentlessly damned, one after the
other, by the public. The only success he ever
scored was in a satire (“ More than Ever ”) on a
ridiculous melodrama of Merrit’s. We knew him
when he was a “ lecturer, vocalist, and entertainer”
in conjunction with a diorama; but we are bound
to admit that he did not entertain us much.
“Amiens” of London Society - (who, we
may whisper, for the Information of contempo-
raries, is no less a personage than Mr. Arthur Pat-
chett Martin, late of Melbourne), In a Jeamesey
gush about Archbishop Vaughan, insinuates that
his Grace’s advent in Sydney (in December ’73) had
the effect of turning many self-indulgent priests
from the luxurious error of their ways, of waken-
ing them up, of converting them from wallowing
in the stye of epicures to abstinence—from
“ love of old Sherris sack,
Of Hippocras fine and of Malmsey bright,
Which, aye as they drained it or with a smack,
They grew* loss pious and more polite;”
to a love of cold water, in Ueu of old wine; from
pleasure to duty, from Satan to God, etc. etc. Of
course, what “ Amiens ” has said has muchly mad-
dened the clerics, who were at work out here in
this desolate mission field before Roger Bede
turned up as Coadjutor-Archbishop. In florid
letters to the papers these angry reverends crack
themselves up as having been the most self-deny-
ing, hard-working priests the world has ever
known, while denouncing poor “Amiens” in a style
that leaves no doubt what they would do to him In
the back-yard of the Presbytery it they had him
in their holy clutches. Now, doubtless, just aa
there were strong men. before Agamemnon, there
were real good, zealous priests in Australia before
Vaughan “arrove;” while, as for self-indulgence,
it is probable that there’s as much of it now among
the R.C. clergy as ever there was prior to 1873. In-
deed, if there isn’t a tidy lot of that pleasant sin
practised by the R.C. clergy of to-day— of the
Vaughanio epoch—their looks mightily belle them,
since where will you find a sleekier, paunchier,
hoavier-jowled and rubier-nosed lot of jolly beg-
gars than you will among their ranks ? Ana what
do sleekness and fair round bellies, and double
chins, and the red, red nose symbolise but a good
time of placid self-indulgence, with vivers in
abundance and lashings of the right brand ? Why,
Roger Bede, himself, hasn’t got precisely the look
of a man who mortifies the old Adam; rather has
he the appearance of one who doesn’t wholly de-
spise the fleshpots of Egypt while tolling and moil-
ing iu this valley of tears. Pulse and cold water
don’t maintain him in his magnificent condition,
you bet. (we won’t mention names) would
have acted with more oocum had he not given the
tip to “Amiens.”
* * *
Hanlon and Kavanagh desire to be ashore
in Calcutta—as recruits, it is to be presumed, for
the noble army of Thugs James Nash was
the original prospector of Gympie goldflelri. Many
millions have been raised at Gympie. But Nash is
not a millionaire. Subscriptions are being taken
up to enable him to go looking for gold again —
Of David who has settled the foundations of
Christianity, regulated the canons (the Buchanons)
of dramatic literature, and comprehensively fixed
the principles of the Constitution, it might be
said, as it was of a higher type of busybody than
him: if he only knew a little law, he’d know a little
of everything.
* * *
Dr. William H. Russell, who was a great
“ special ” before Archie was born, was rusticating
at Rome last month The biggest man in the
British army is Lieut. Sutherland, of the 56th Regt.,
who weighs 36 stone! Gladstone has only tour
fingers on his left hand. The index finger was
mangled by a gun accident nearly 40 years ago,
Many colonial politicians seem to have six fingers
on each hand It is stated that Bonanza Mackay
has a house in Nevada as large as Buckingham
Palace; his income is estimated at £35,000 a week
A bold adventurer lately startled people at
Turin by asserting himself to be the Prince Im-
perial of France, who, he declared, was not killed
in Zuluiand. As, however, he was found out in a
highway robbery, the would-be Napoleon has
been sent to the gaUeys for 31 years—A real
Napoleon is brought under notice, though, by the
fact that he is on the British pension list for £350 a
year. Prince Louis Lucien Buonaparte 1 aa no in-
convenient pride about him, and of the two, the
bogus Buonaparte’s way of acquiring money was
at least the more manly. At the same time, Lieut.
Waghorn’s sister has been informed by the Home
Department that the nation cannot afford her a
pension of 10s. a week I
Josh Piekersgill, though “ out of it” in one
sense, seems to be “in it” in another. He Is at
Dunedin, where he is airing what he modestly calls
his “ well-known eloquence ” with a diorama.
Josh has, as it will be seen, caught the theatrical
fever, and has got it badly. When he was with
Pomeroy, “ Pick ” (as she caused to call him) was
one living scream. Louise had, at a very early
stage of the proceedings made him a mere driveller.
A leading member of her company was said to be
in a similar predicament, and Frank Weston owned
up sturdily that he would wrangle for her, write
for her, light tor her, live for her, die for her—all
or some of them, whichever she preferred. This
used to incommode Josh very much; and he would
wander about while she was performing, and un-
bosom himself to the starlit heavens. This would
make his eyes water, and cause him to sneeze ; but
he didn’t care! The mere fact of Flemming
playing the lover broke him up so that his only
consolation was in the mystic lights which
bespangled the glorious canopy, especially the
moon. There was, it appeared, an innate sym-
pathy between them! ‘‘Dear boy,” he would
say, over a glass of amontlllado —or a glass of
Toohey’s beer —at the Exchange. “ that woman is
a divinity.” Adverse criticisms ne wept over (he
is a gentle creature), but the boys who laid it on
thick he loved like brothers. We knew Josh when
his life was as smooth as the most translucent
mill pond. Then he used to write rather mild copy
in the Melbourne Punch, and sell rather bad port.
He was very popular In Melbourne, then, and
quite a noted raconteur. His stories, though, re-
sembled, to some extent, those of Mr. Winkle,
who, it will be remembered, at Mr. Wardles—
“ Came out with jokes which are very well remem-
bered in town, but are not at all known in the coun-
try; and, as everybody laughed at them very
heartily, and said they were very capital, Mr.
Winkle was in a state of great honour and
glory.” Josh, then, was one of the diUe-
tcunti, and not only a free-lance, but “fancy-
free,” besides. But the fair lady came, and he
caught It. Then he loathed the wine-trade, even
as Oopperfield loathed Murdstone and Grinby’s, and
so became a theatrical manager. Poor old J osh I
He was the wrong sort to baggie with biU-stickers,
beat down supers., and “ count the house.” Bless
you, he couldn’t do it! When he’d go up in the
circle to check the deadheads, he’d only see ethereal
Violas and bewitching Rosalinds. All the rest,
until he could escort her to her carriage at night,
was air. But when that delicious moment arrived;
when he felt her lily hand upon his arm, and her
sweet voice fell melodiously upon her ear, then
And now to think that “ Pick ” is on the lecture
platform, and will have on Saturday afternoon to
“give every child a giftT” and to bribe the mem-
bers of the press with coffee-sets and tea-trays!
Well well I
The Victorian Supreme Court has ruled
that it is libeliousrto say of a man. that he knows
live languages but cannot speak the truth in any
one of them. How, we wonder, would the ruling
have gone, had the statement been that the man
could speak the truth in none of the five languages
which he knew ?
All of the components of Wolfe’s
Sohnapp’s are of extreme original purity, not
compounds purged of noxious elements, but con-
stituents in themselves, perfectly harmless, and of
highest possible quality and proof.


THE BUGGIES OF THE PERIOD.
Unequalled for Durability and Elegance.
WAGGONETTES & EXPRESS WAGGON S
FIRST-CLASS WORK ONLY IMPORTED.
WILLIAM FLEMING, 2 & 24 C/arence-st,
SYDNEY.
TJ
s
Q
o
c?
£
*
<6
SP
<^5
Or'
BROOK’S SIX-CORD
SOFT COTTON
ON
NEW SHOULDER REEL
VERY CAREFULLY MADE
FOB I
HAND & MACHINE SEWING,
„ v White, Black & all Colours
BROOK’S PATENT
GLAC£ THREAD
ON
NEW SH0U1DER REEL.
JBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE. ADELAmE, BRISBANE, DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies : _
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Hoad Office : HONGKONG.
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
OwiifeaffllffiSfe.feSSMbS celebrated “Otto " snent Engine,.
Bow? and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c„ &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penvrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)— Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Ball and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &o., &c. .
Rpd Cross Preserving Company, Victoria —Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c,
De Wendel and Company, II ay'ango, France —Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c,
Thos. Perry and Son. Bilston— Fire-resisting Sates.
Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse.
Thos. N. Hunir-Port Wine.
Dubes Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES. _ , _
New South Wales— Soott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia. —W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
kst INDENTS executed, on the most favourable tennis, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
VIRTUTIS GLORIA MERGES.'
COALCLIFF COAL.
S NEWEST and NEAREST COAL MINE to SYDNEY supplies the CHEAPEST, CLEANEST, and
THRIFTIEST Household and Steaming Coal in the Colony,
£1 per Ton net, delivered within city bounds.
IV,;, npw Coal with a good draught, and range and bars'kept well free from ash, makes a stronger,
lasting and cleaner fire that any other, it neither has the objectionable smoky flare and soot of
wcastle «foaknordoes it splinter and fly off like the Western, but it affords that domestic desideratum
koine kinds of English coal of heating an iron or cooking a steak as thoroughly and cleanly as a
irooal or breeze fire, while it imparts to the steak none of that disagreeable odour of the unwhole-
ne fumes given off by a breeze or gas tire.
A LIBERAL DISCOUNT ALLOWED TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS.
Office: A. B. BLACK, 247 George Street.
DEPOT ; WOOLLOOMOOLOO WHARF.
MISS LYDIA HASTINGS Instructs in VGirw
BUILDING, ELOCUTION. PUBLIC
PARLOUR RBAi)INGS. Glass at 8YDNf$
ICflOOL OF ARTS, Friday, 4 p.m. : anrt I
SYDNEY ARCADE, Room 35. Wednesday Rn *
(Ladies and Gentlemen). Visitors invited ’ 1
Private Lessons, for Ladles or Gentleman
131 PHILLIP STREET. nUemen ,
Terms for Schools or Clubs on application.
EDUCATIONAL.
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OP ths
ZULU WAR, r
Theatre Royal, Rockhampton, July 9th to aist.
Bundaberg, Maryborough, and Gympie.
Brisbane to follow, 9th September, with
NEW DIORAMA
OF
EGYPTIAN W A R I
W. H. THOMPSON, Proprietor
SYL. RYAN, Agent, Dpnowr *
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
or the undersigned,
George-street, Sydney •
JAMES B. HICKIE,
Brisbane.
JQESIGN FOR WOOL WAREHOUSE.
MORT AND COMPANY (Limited)
Offer a Premium of One Hundred Guineas forth#
most approved design for a
WOOL WAREHOUSE,
to be erected on their property at Circular Quay.
For farther particulars, apply to
MORT & CO. (Limited),
Circular Quay, Sydney.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
11th August, 1883.
FRESH TENDERS.
STEAM-TUG FOR THE TWEED RIVER.
FRESH TENDERS will be received at this Office
up to noon of Friday, the 24th of August,
from persons desirous of supplying and maintain
ing an efficient Steam-tug for use at the Tweed
River, on the basis of an annual subsidy from the
Government, and with the right reserved to the
tenderer to charge shipping for the use of the Tug
at rates not exceeding 8d. per registered ton, both
in and out, with a minimum of £3.
The conditions of contract may be seen at the
Office of the Marine Board.
The vessel must be of not less than 20 horse-
power, with a draught not exceeding 6 feet 6 inches,
and thoroughly fitted, in the opinion of the Marine
Board, for the service required, which must bo
commenced immediately upon acceptance of
tender.
Tenderers must state the amount of subsidy
(over and above the towage rates) required for the
service specified, and must submit the names of
the persons they propose as sureties.
The Contractor, within fourteen days from noti-
fication of acceptance of tender, will be required
to enter into a bond with two sureties for the due
performance of the service ; and in the event of
his failure to complete the Bond in the time
named, the contract may be either re-advertised
or another tender accepted.
The Government will not necessarily accept the
lowest or any Tender.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed •‘Tender for
Tug Service."
GEORGE R. D1BB8.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
11th Augustus
FRESH TENDERS.
STEAM-TUG FOR THE BRUNSWICK RIVER.
FRESH TENDERS will be received at this Office
up to noon on FRIDAY, the 24th of August,
tom persons desirous of supplying and maintain-
ng an efficient Steam-tug for use at the Brunswick
liver, on the basis of an annual subsidy from the
lovernrnent, and with the right reserved to the
enderor to charge shipping for the use of the Tug
it rates not exceeding 8d. per registered ton, both
n and out, with a minimum of £3 ; and in the
went of cargo being taken to and from vessels, at
i rate of not more than 2s. 6d. per ton.
The conditions of contract may be seen at the
Jfflce of the Marine Board.
The vessel must be of not lees than 30 horse-
power, with a draught of not more than 4 feet,
ind thoroughly fitted, in the opinion of the Marine
Board, for the service required, which must oe
lommenced immediately upon acceptance of
tender. . ..._
Tenderers must state the amount of subswy
[over and above the towage and cargo rates) re-
buired for the service specified, and must sub mu
the names of the persons they propose as sureties.
The Contractor, within fourteen days from noti-
fication of acceptance of tender, will be requirsa
to enter Into a bond with two sureties for the hue
performance of the service ; and in the event or
his failure to complete the Bond in the time namM,
the contract may either be re-advertised or anotner
tender accepted. , ..
The Government will not necessarily accept tne
lowest or any tender. , lrr
Tenders to bo addressed to the Dnder-Secrctary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed ‘ Tender jor
GEORGE B. D1BB8.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 10th August, 1983.
TENDERS FOR TEMPORARY BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the ERECTION ofA
Temporary Wooden Building, for Ru
School purposes, at Marina, near Marengo.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and i
of tender obtained at the office of Depart
of Public Instruction, Sydney ; and at thei -iann»
Public School, on application to the Teacher.
Tenders, endorse# “Tender for Temporary
Building, Marina Public School, must be
with the Acting Under-Secretary, Department or
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o clock a.
MONDAY, the 3rd September, 1883. __ D , th0
The Minister does not bind himself to atiep
lowest or any tender. G H reID.
Notice is hereby given that a swdd
MEETING of the LICENSING
the Metropolitan Licensing District will oe
at noon on TUESDAY, the 28th day of
1883, for the purpose of considering app w* {QT
for Renewals of Colonial Wine DtoeMJ*.
the transaction of any other business tha
legally brought before the said Court.
C. DELOHERY,
Clerk of Petty Sessions.
Central Police Office.
August 10th, 1883. .—-
The “gundagai herald,'
Gazette and Farmers’ Chronicle, jpninf
incorporated the “Temora Heram. . on 0 r
mrnal.” will be published in Gun ag»
iberal principles, in the interests ° , ., or tant dw-
farmers, and Miners of that most imp a hug*
rict. As the “ Herald ” will advertise*?
imount of patronage, it will offero wJ(le their
svery facility for spreading far an elJ , cirC u-
insiness notices. The “ Herald wu Adelonf 1
ate through the districts of Jngi 8^ mbur raDj
Dumut, Cootamundra, Bethungra, HeI? jd
ffuttama, Coolac, &c.,&c. The n d8aturd«I-
yill be published every Wednesdaj a
W. H. L. Stricter-
Cr
AIETY T H E A T R E
Lessee . . • • • Herb Bandmann*
HOLD FAST THAT WHICH IS GOOD.
Third Week, and Unabated Success of Herr Hand-
mann’s Version of D’Ennery s Great
MORAL AND RELIGIOUS PLAY,
THE WOMAN OF THE PEOPLE,
or the
HORRORS OF DRINK.
35,000 PEOPLE, 35,000 PEOPLE, 35,000 PEOPLE
Have already seen it.
BEHOLD THE MARVELLOUS RESULTS.
At the Gaiety Theatre, between the fourth and
fifth acts, Dr. Fawcett addressed the audience,
thanking Herr Bandmann, on behalf of the Tem-
perance bodies, for the moral pood his
“ The Woman of the People ” had produced. Dur-
ing his address, he said that a mother took her little
bov to see the performance, and upon their return
home the child said to the father, “ I saw a man on
the stage, and he was rolling and falling about just
like you do when you are scolding mamma. This
so touched the heart of the man that ho went next
day and took the pledge. Dr. Fawcett assured the
audience that this touching fact came under his
personal knowledge.
PRESS, PUBLIC, AND PULPIT UNANIMOUS.
Under the patronage of the combined TEMPE-
RANCE SOCIETIES of Now South Wales, repre-
sented by M.W.P.G. Palmer, Esq.. ALW.S. P. R.
Holdsworth, Esq., M. W T. W. Hanson, Esq. G. W T.
Hv. Parr, Esq., G.S.C.T. Pierce, Esq., G.W.l. Dr.
Fawcett, Esq.. G.W.C.T. Hutchinson, Esq., G.W.C.
J. Davies, C.M.O.. &c., &c., &c., &c.
Between tho acts, Tea, from the famous esta-
blishment of Quong Tart and Co., will be served
to tho Ladies, M A .. ( . B WILL TERMINATE AT
THE PER*’
10.20 PUNCT
Read whal i
Box Olfice a
seats can bo b
Garnsey said,
md Gaiety Theatre, where
weeks in advance.
The Furniture * > ppfied by W. Hamilton and Co.,
Globe Warehouse, Park and Castlereagh streets.
Admission — Orchestra Chairs (reserved), at
Paling’s, 4s; Stalls, 3s; Circle, Family Circle, 2s;
ENLARGED PIT, Is.
O
E R
H
USB
Lessee, W. J. Wilson. Sub-Lessee, A. T. Dunning.
Stage Manager, T. B. Appleby.
Treasurer, J. F. Goldsworthy.
SIXTH WEEK, and continued and pronounced
success.
MANTEAUX NOIRS
(Black Cloaks).
N.B. —This famous work was performed for
Seven Months at the Avenue, London, and will be
produced on a scale of
UNPARALLELED SPLENDOUR.
THIS and EVERY EVENING.
Admission—Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 8s. ; Pit, 2s.
Box plan at Huenerblen’s Music Warehouse, 411
George-street, where seats may be secured for any
date In advance. Day tickets obtained at
Stone’s, tobacconist, next Theatre.
Secretary to A. T. Dunning, A. N. Hallifax.
T
IHBATRB ROYAL.—Under the Managementof
Messrs. Williamson, Garner. & Musgbove.
NINTH WEEK and continued triumph of \Wl
MISS JENNIE LEE,
and
Mr. J. P. BURNETT.
TO-NIGHT, and During the Week,
Mr. J. P. Burnett’s Farciful Comedy, in three acts,
THE GRASSHOPPER, or the CHANCES of the
CARDS.
Business Manager for Miss Lee, LIDDY.
T
W A HOURS AT H A M E . ”
MR. KENNEDY
and
FAMILY’S
SONGS OF SCOTLAND.
KENNEDY’S ROUTE.
The following FIXTURES have been made :—
Brisbane. Commencing Monday, 20th August,
Maryborough. .Thursday. 6th, 7th, 8th, &13th Sopt.
Gvmpie....Monday, 10th, Ilth,and 13th September.
Ipswich Monday, 17th September.
Toowoomba Tuesday, 18th September.
Warwick Wednesday, 19th September.
Stanthorpo Thursday, 30th September.
Tenterfleld Friday, 31st September.
Glen Innes Monday, 34th September.
Armidale.. Wednesday, 26th. & Thursday, 37th Sept.
Tam worth. Friday, 38th September.
Scone Saturday, 39th September.
Singleton Monday, 1st October,
West Maitland Tuesday, 2nd, and Wednesday,
3rd October.
Newcastle Thursday, 4th, and Friday, 5th Oct.
Campbelltown, Goulburn, Wagga Wagga, and 11
Albury to follow.
R. KENNEDY, Managcr._
ICTORIA HALL.
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
V
Lessee
Mr, F. E. HiSCOCKS.
Tho most Elegant, Fashionable, and Popular
Place of Amusement In Australia, well adapted
for any first-class entertainments. The Lessee open
to Rent or otherwise. Apply
WM. MARSHALL,
Lorgnette Olfice, Melbourne.
AYALA * "y
urrtu puauTY
«fliW1fAGNL
ianttsOy
A
I
V
“ I’m out of form. Can’t keep up to work.”
“ Oh, if that’s all, old man, I’ll have you as brisk as a
deket in a jiffy. Here, Waiter! large bottle of
yala’s White Label. This is a wine one can’t get
very where; and If it doesn’t set you up, Frank, I’ll
ive you a new hat.”
1EIII riUFS S CO.,
AGENTS.
BRIDGE-STREET CHAMBERS.


SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal, “Grasshopper" Vide p. 10.
Opera House. “Manteaux Noirs” ib.
Gaiety Theatre—“Woman of the People”, ib.
We are told that the openin'; piece at Her
Majesty’s will possibly be from the pen of a dis-
tinguished dramatist for whom the Maoris have so
often sharpened their little hatchets. It is to be
called “ Jimjamerack, King of Kopperncb; or,
the Dust, the Bust, and the Magic Pie-Crust.” The
piece, so we learn, is to be in five acts and fifteen
tableaux. “ Fourpostera ” will be handed round
during the performance, and coffins will be retailed
at a reasonable figure by the polite ushers. And,
by the way, Jim Allison’s coat of arms, we hear, is
to be to the right of those of Her Majesty (bless
her royal gums!—and this reminds us that, up to
the time of hoisting on this “forme,” no dentist
has, to our knowledge, had the hardihood to
announce himself as “by appointment to the
Sueen!”) while on the left will be all that the
erald’s College can rake up for Rignold. Specu-
lation is ri.e amongst the “ perfesh ” now as to
whether James’s arms are a goose, a suit, or a very
old boot. Rignold’s arms, it is well known, will be
a warrior, armed cap-a-pie, ardent, and the motto
will he taken from Scripture.
* * * *
Thus our correspondent:—Einelie Melville
does fair, though not overpowering, business at
the Theatre Royal, Adelaide. “Boccaccio” is her
next move. We fancy the dear thing relies rather
too much on Emelie’s and Grades attractions.
They warble together much as one might expect
gweet-temper d relatives to do; but the stage is
pot crowded up with bright costumes, and gleam-
ing arms. and flashing legs, as is the custom when
Jimmy Williamson comic-operaises there.
• * * *
One of the very latest dramatic sensations
is a tragedy called “Perroof,” or “The Fatal
Error.” It is in one act, and there Is only one
speech in that. The curtain rises on a magnificent
view of Potts’ Point by moonlight, with North
Shore, two or three dead marines, and other
reminiscences of a journeyman butcher’s picnic in
the distance. To the left, the Sydney sewers are
seen in active operation, and the burghers’ goats
are discovered battling for their lives with the
terrible upas-like aroma. The hero, Septimus
Sylvester Sophthead, then enters with the Lady
Virginia. Tufty, and the guilty pair, seating
themselves on a log near the palatial wood-heap,
commence to gaze into each others’ eyes with all
the soulful yearning of a libel juryman gazing at a
plate of hot cow-heel through the misty windows
of a “full and plenty.” Don Vincenzio Amadis
de Vasopancia, the jealous husband, then enters
from behind and softly approaches the gushing
pair. Hatred and rage are stamped 4in. deep on
every feature, his hair stands straight like a birch
broom in a fit, and his eyes flash flames so fiercely
that his side “levers” are in imminent danger of
catching fire. In an instant he drives a dagger to
the hilt in his guilty wife and her lover, who both
fall dead without uttering a single groan. Don
Vincenzio is revenged. His face is lit up with
fiendish joy; he stoops over the corpses of his
victims, and then, suddenly starting back, ex-
claims: “Corpo di Bacco 1 I hef kil-led ze wrong
beeples!” Then he severe his own jugular, and the
curtain falls.
* ♦ * *
“Pluck” has proved a failure at the Mel-
bourne Royal, and last Saturday Williamson and
Maggie Moore appeared in “Struck Oil.” We are
glad (though we lovo Bland Holt dearly) that this
melodramatic bosh has gone the way of all such
stuff. The public has had enough, for a while, of
the miserable dialogue of Pettitt and Augustus
Harris (!!), and want something (of course emo-
tional) of rather a higher class. “ Tambour-Major ”
has been produ -ed at the Princess’s, with Vernon
in Harwood’s part, Woodfleld as the Captain, and
Nellie Stewart as Stella. And this is the style of
criticism the Australasian (of all papers!) adopts:
—Docy Stewart (the Duchess) is “ one of the most
capable actresses that ever trod the stage” (sic);
“ Nellie Stewart is a delightful Stella, and a deli-
cious Stella, and you could not wish for anv better
Stella ” (sic); “ Ida Osborne is the most delicious (!)
Vivandiere you could possibly invent”; “Miss Lld-
diard is a” (mark this!) “surprisingly coruscating
Griolet.” “Mr. Daly” (young Dick Stewart!)
“ made his claim to very favourable consideration.”
And, best of all, the Polks send their audiences
away filled with “a very pleasant content ” (sic).
If Dr. Neild wrote this, it is no wonder ho is popular
with the profession. But we hope long ere this he
has sent the bellman round to say he didn’t—even
it he did,
* ♦ * *
Mr. Titheradge, who has been divorced, is
coming out here again. He left a fine, handsome,
clever woman (Bella Titheradge) for Alma Santon,
aplain “ piece,” and a pitiful actress. Lots of men,
by the bye, leave pretty women for ugly ones.
We can understand this. For instance, a pretty
woman has a small mouth, and that mouth, with
all its pouts and purees, is exhausted in a very
short time. But once freeze on (as we have done
on innumerable occasions)—to a woman with a
gigantic hash-receiver, and you wish for nothing
“in the world beside” for a long time. That
mouth has, in its varied changes of expression,
more variety than a diorama. When it laughs,
you see “them all ” (seven octaves, from A to A),
and sigh; when it is shut, you await with trembling
earnestness further developments. Although we
wore around our necks a string of beads in order
not to forget the number that we have at different
times adored, the only sylph whose likeness is
permanently engraven on our hearts is Soldene.
That ecstatic creature had a mouth in which in
its various and several expressions were delineated
love, passion, hatred, revenge, hunger, satisfac-
tion, disdain, and repletion. We used to go and
see her behind the scenes sometimes, while her
shabby little husband was looking after the check-
takers ; and that mouth took us captive. Ah,
what a grand feature ! What a property ! She
can never be poor, can Soldene. For she can let
her mouth out as Fish River Caves, Tea Gardens,
stalaotile grottoes, or as building sites for a new
township, “ lithos to be had on application.” Since
we last saw Emily, we are reminded that both she
and Catherine Lewis have had several husbands
each; and that Catherine, according to latest
advices, has shunted her last hub., and appointed
her agent, “ manager.” This fellow, however,
seams to have turned out a Jonah, and although
Catherine, as a paper says, “ never kicked higher”
the people wouldn’t come and see it. To quote an
■■esthetic New York journal“ Finding at last that
the jig was up she packed her costume and pro-
perty trunks and undertook to get out of town
without paying up the $800 that she owed to her
chorus girls. Then they had her arrested on a
charge of attempting to steal away with some of
their petticoats and underclothing which they had
smuggled into the trunks. Catherine appeared in
court and wept, but had to go through the ordeal
of a trial which resulted in her acquittal of the
charge of larceny; but she was detained long
enough for her chorus to levy on her trunks for
the $800 she owed them.” By the way, Catherine
has a large mouth, too. But we didn’t study her
when she was here. We weren’t then in want of a
coal-hole.
* * * *
The pieces run so long now that we are
beginning to forget how to stretch out in a proper
criticism. And this reminds us that some time ago
a wnter called “Capsicum,” who said he had been
,h lrt y—five years in the critical line, deprecated in
the Echo the habit editors have of sending re-
porters who have graduated only at Dubbo or
uuiiockville Flat, to gauge the capabilities of a
newly-arrived “ star.” “ Capsicum,” though he is
j h ’"tolerably dull old twaddler, is, no doubt, right
“.this instance. It is a rule for dusty, seedy youths
ho know as much about the ethics of dramatic
,‘’ ns truction as they do about aspic jell v, to toil u p
nto the dress-circle, and modestly standing, survey
nn *v ene wit * 1 a timidly admiring eye. Then later
Q. the agent, if he be clever, suggests refresh-
ment, and is kind enough to point out the parts in I
which his star is superior to Ristori—can give a
lead to Salvini. All this goes down in the note-
book while a Rood deal (foes down the, reporter. And
the next morning an expectant public is treated
to something in this style “ The appearance of
Miss Belinda Bullamy in Shakspearo’s well known
play of ‘ The Hunchback ’ drew a crowded house,
and Miss Bullamy took the part of Julia to the
satisfaction of all. The other characters were
satisfactorily sustained, and everyone seemed to
go away satisfied. A word is due to Mr. Harcourt
de Vere (formerly with Jackoroo’s diorama) for
the courteous manner in which he attended to the
front of the house, and it would be invidious to
close this notice without affording a tribute to the
amiability of the gentleman who caters for the
public, at moderate prices, next door.” We have
frequently pointed out that dramatic critics have
given flattering paragraphs to entertainers while
they have been lying indisposed under their
blankets at homo. When the Queen’s was in
full swing, little Marlon Willis and Keogh (the
celebrated “Scotch tragedian”) received eulogis-
tic notices for their efforts in “Jessie Brown”
on the night they happened to appear in
the “ Flying Scud.” “ The legedermalnic skill" of
“Professor Bosheroni” has been pronounced
marvellous on the very night ho gave three boys
and two goats their money back; and Hallewell
has been eulogised for his delivery of the “ Lar-
board Watch ” when an excuse had been made for
him on the ground of indisposition. All this tends
to make actors, who are always supposed to be
intolerant, more intolerant still of criticism. And
no wonder! If a man with a knowledge of the
canine world, equal only to the bulk of the Sydney
reporters’ knowledge of theatrical reviewing,
came to criti ise our dog, if the dog couldn’t kill
him, we would.
* * ♦ *
There is nothing further in connection
with “The Grasshopper,” except this little anec-
dote about Warner. He was riding with Jennie
Lee the other day on the Coogee Bay road, when a
tram approaching caused his horse to rear. Willie
then slid off, and beckoning to a man, while Mrs.
B. rode on, said to him: “Here, fellow; I’ll give
you a shilling to hold my horse.” “ A shillun, eh ?”
said the rustic, scratching his head; “ that depends
how long it will take you to get inside.” That an-
noyed Warner very much, the more especially as
he had on that very morning received a towel-
horse and a red-wafered charger on wheels, “ with
the compliments of the profession.”
♦ * ♦ ♦
After the run of the “ Woman of the
People,” at the Gaiety, Bandmann proposes to pro-
duce “ Rip VanWinkle,” with himself, of course,
in the title-r61e. We have seen a good many Rips
in our time—the best, of course, Jefferson, and the
worst, Johnny Hall. Murray and Baretrong, how-
ever, will have it to themselves for a week or two
yet. In connection with the Gaiety show, we have
a whole pile of letters. One is mysterious, and is
in distinc: reference to some poetry on Mario we
published last week, and attributed to the graphic
pen of Harry Simmons. The writer says:—“lam
the guilty person [author]. . . Mr. Slmmonds
has not seen It. I scarcely know the gentleman,
my acquaintance with him being simply of the
kind that comes of “Can I pass in, please?” on
my side; and “Sorry to say you cannot,” on his.
As,” she continues, “I sent my versos to Mr. Austin
for musical treatment, and do not know how you
came by them, here’s a chance for a pun—‘exh-
Austin —or well, you can tish it out tor your-
self,” Well, we haven’t time to do this; stiil, we
can just lind a moment to correct a little slip of
the pen on the part of our correspondent. For
“musical treatment” we will, of course, read
“ medical treatment.” But it is the finish that in-
trigues us:—“ Were there any particular reasons
for disclosing my identity, I would do so: but,
until I really see one, I prefer hiding timidly behind
my usual (and masculine) nom de plume of John
L. Dalkeith.” Well, John (or Jane), we love you;
but we are afraid that the peculiarity of your
caligraphy will make the oompo. curse you.
* * *
Another correspondent is not mysterious ;
and, consequently, just a bit dull. She simply
signs herself “Ethel A. Deshborough,” and says—
but why not quote her?—“Grandma Catherine, of
the Gaiety, wishes to inform you that her name is
neither 1 ullumby, or Fuljamby. as incorrectly
stated in last Saturday’s paper ;” and trusts we
will correct the error. Of course we will. If the
tidal wave were rushing on us in the distance, and
the lava of Vesuvius were falling like snow
around us, we would correct the error. And that’s
all we think about the Gaiety, except that Herr B.
(whom we mot on Sunday walking out with
Windeyer) has an idea of producing, during his
season, an adaptation by Miss Beaudet, of Paille-
ron s Les Faux Manages.” Bear up, Alfred!
* m » •
Our stern and unrelenting belief in the
clergy has made us true prophets. We told about
a quarter of a million people last week that Miss
Myra Kemble was being looked after by the im-
presarii, and that she would shortly appear at one
ot the principal theatres. Last Friday afternoon
she received a telegram from Polk, engaging her
on terms that would make you wink —or wince—
as leading lady for the next Sydney season. Once
more, then, we shall see little Mrs. W. in “ leading
juvenile.” By the way, Billy Hoskins (that giddy
young masher) considers Myra more adapted for
the legitimate than melo-drama. We don’t. But
then, we are not so young as Billy.
* * * *
Jimmy South, with a company of 16, is at
Orange, and James is making money. The gifted
Whittington, who married “the magic bust” in
Adelaide, is still the agent in advance. We used to
see that lady before “Whit.” was “struck,” and
she was always eating almond cakes and reading
Bow Bells. We expect H. J. found the “plunder’
both for the literary and farinaceous feeds ! See
what money will do ! But listen to this ;—“Miss
Pomerov is suffering from a cold.” And, though
Arthur and she have only been married a week,
Yet. for that cold he’s got—
Alas ! it should be said—
To Juliet oive rum hut
Before she goes to bed,
• • • «
lu reference to a paragraph which ap-
peared last week with regard to Scantlebury’s
“Boccaccio” company at Tingha, we have re-
ceived the following communication, which,
though unsigned, is remarkably like the pot-hooks
and hangers our Evening News experience has
taught us used, at one time, to be one of Jack’s
principal assets:—“ What the dog was lying on was
not some of Jack Scantlebury’s hair, but a lot of
Gainor’s moustache, which he had torn off, after
looking through a parlour key-hole and hearing
him offer Josephine Deakin not only his heart, but
his Mayoral chain to wear as a chatelaine.” We
are pleased to learn that, the board of the country
hotels having agreed so well with Maude Bouse, the
management have been enabled to dispense with
all the other members of the chorus, and three-
fourths of the supers. Maude spreads herself out
so well now that she can come in as the Duke’s
body-guard, a body of medical students, and is
effective as the King's army in retreat. One night
Miss Rouse was given a speaking part. There was
a “masher” that night up-stairs whom she knew
was going to throw her a bouquet with a ring in it.
All Maude had to say was “ My duty to the King;”
but when the King came in, Miss Rouse blurted out
“ There’s duty on that ring.” This was in Victoria,
and the fact is a matter of history.
* * * ♦
“ Manteaux Noirs ” to good biz. all the time
—and they have got Knight Aston back, which is a
very good thing. We know Knight Aston well, and
his name ought to draw if ho doesn’t. His pecu-
liarities are a dashing style of acting and singing
and an inveterate hatred to Scotch whiskey of
all sorts. And Deane Brand (Mr. Kate Chard)
has a “ ben.,” too ; and Miss Ivanova (Mrs. A. T.
Hallifax)—and he’s got the luck of it—has a “ ben.”
too. You can get the dates in a lump. They are
7d., we believe, a pound. [This is very feeble
criticism.—Ed. B.] The engagement of Knight
Aston was a good move on the part of the gigantic
vnipresnrU >. They had no tenor before. We really
hope Miss Ivanova will have (on Friday—there!) a
good “ ben.,” for she really is exceedingly clever,
and she can fetch a high Q and dive for a low Y
with equal facility. And a lady possessing these
talents ought not to bo neglected. Well, then,
what more is there ? Perhaps to say that Charley
and Bill Holleraway are in Brisbane and doing
rather mighty biz. in “Two Droraios”—we beg
parding—“ The Comedy of Horrors.” We see that
Essie Jenyns, Bill’s darter (only a ohe-ild), is being
put up m loading parts. This is, of course, a
ridiculous mistake. Why, we had sooner see the
Countess Zicka play Ophelia than little Essie, who
only a few years ago was spanked by her pa for
slumming the part of the Boy in “Henry V.”
Quoi d’avantage i Voyom.
Oh, a Bathurst printer is making a row
about a “star,” who was there recently, for not
ante-mg up for his ads. We know who the star is,
but, of course, are too discreet to mention his
name. But if, dear readers, you get a shrewd sus-
picion that it was G. V. Brooke, you won’t be far
wrong. And, to be sure, Mr. Menser was good
enough to send us up a season ticket for Sheridan’s
show at Parramatta, big enough to have accom-
modated John Lucas: but we couldn't go. It was
our loss, we know. For Sheridan has really “got
And Miss Louise .Davenport is charming.
You’ll understand our feelings when we to you do
say
We only iove one sweet Louise and that’s Louise
Beaudet.—
Thunder I This reads like a cracker motto. Let it
go, however. Gilbert began his literary career by
wntmg cracker mottoes, and Lewis Scott will llnish
his by doing likewise. And probably wo shall con-
clude our brilliant career by making the crackers.
* * * ♦
It was on Monday night last that wo went
to the Masonic Hall to see Professor Simon, the
phrenologist. We got there early. The people
came in by twos and throes. As they passed
us, we noticed that they were physiognomically
very much like the crowd that used to go to the
\ ictoria Hull when Zulu Thompson was there
giving away egg-spoons, and salt-cellars, and ter-
races of houses. They had the same huge reticules
with them tor carrying away the prizes in; the
lack of Interest in everything except the
gitt-stand. And a more unprepossessing, ordiuary-
lookmg lot of females we never saw out of a
Woman s Bights convention. The men, for the
most part, would have been ornaments to a synod,
a 11 hi e-pin alley. And you could
tell by the look of every man there that he thought
his head was just boiling over with brains.
* * *
Speaking of that, we may say that, for
some time after we came in, we endeavoured to
catch the eye of the Professor. Wecaughtit. We
made our own eyes coruscate like gig-lamps. We
wanted to g et a crumb-tray, or a wagon-wheel, or
something, for having the most intellectual head
in the audience. He stared at us fixedly for a
minute or two. “ Now we have him,” we men-
tally remarked, and turned, carelessly, our side-
face to him, so that he should observe the clean-
cut commanding.-profile, which we have been told
we possess as few men do. Then we frowned, fid-
geted, shrugged our shoulders, and finally turned
round and glared at him again, with a look of im-
perious disdain. These antics were meant to show
mm that thoughts were crowding through our
brain, like shadows over a corn-field. What a wild,
flashing-eyed child of genius we believed we looked,
to be snrel The Professor would not possibly be
able to get out of giving us the prize for intellect,
t T 3 Ju if ’ his prayers would choke him.
Just then, the cuiuin rose, and the Professor
walked on to the stage. The man we had been
straining our eyeballs nearly out of their sockets
to impress, was the door-keeper!
* * •
Professor Simon is a swingy kind of
man, who appears to be on the best of
terms with himself, and, consequently, allablo
with other people. His mode of operation is some-
thing like this:—He calls a number of people on to
the stage—four of each sox, say. Then he takes
them one by one, looks at them, makes them march
up and down, and then informs the audience what
he considers each of these persons is best fitted for.
After thjs, he is blindfolded, and they sit down.
He then identifies each of them as the individuals
to whom ho gave such and such a name when
Inspecting him or her previously. Thus one young
man was a commercial traveller, and sold bags:
him ho denominated “Hags, ’’and by this so ubriquet
subsequently Identified him.
• • »
The first lot that weutup on Monday night
were so examined. The Professor has a way of
peering and las it wore) gimleting his subjects with
his eyes, which may bo very nice for him, but
which can be only a shade more agreeable than
vivisection for them. Also he has a stylo of tell-
ing them that they are a passably tolerable
sort of ordinary evory-duy people, which, though
put ever so nicely, withers them up in a manner
that is pathetic to behold. Dashing, consequential
looking young fellows, who strode up on the stage
with an easy swagger, literally trickled off it when
ho was done with them. You could see them one
by one going at the knees, and their clothes getting
creased and beginning to lay loosely around them,
till at last their backs arched, their mouths sank
down below the collar—grown suddenly all too
wide—of their coats, and with a look of premature
age they crept back and hid themselves among the
audience. It was not so with all, of course, Some
managed to carry their humiliation off pretty well,
and managed to smile. You know the smile a
young man who is dressed in a new suit of clothes
and a tall hat smiles when he trips on a piece of
orange peel, falls into the gutter, crushes his hat,
breaks the bridge of his nose, and gets up covered
with mud, to see his girl and another fellow laugh-
ing at him from over the way I Well, that was how
the individual we refer to smiled. On the whole,
we are glad that wo did not make one of this
crowd. We are glad for the Professor’s sake, and
our own also. It we had gone up with the others
the Professor would have been a clay-cold corpse
huii 8 time ’ and we s,loultl have had to pay for
• • *
Next thing the Professor did was to offer
a *' 0r 10 mos t amiable gentleman in the
audience. Immediately a crowd of embryo burg-
lars and incipient murderers made for the platform.
Such faces! There was one man there with a
face like a crododile, and others whose features
were about as prepossessing as a gaol-door. Ulti-
mately the prize was given to a young fellow with
blonde eyes and a terror-striking smile. Then the
most amiable lady got a gift, and beamed upon the
unsuccessful candidates till they turned green
with envy. After that a young man, who looked
like a cross between Judas Iscariot and an Irish in-
former, with whatever good qualities either might
have had left out, got a prize for Irritability. A
gold watch was given to the gentleman with the
most mechanical genius and other valuable presents
to the lady and gentleman with the most musical
ability. Besides this, there was a genuine lottery,
where everybody could havoachance who wanted
* * *
Professor Simon's show is certainly amus-
ing. We should hardly care io risk any remark
more definite than this. Phrenology is about on
the same scientific plane as spiritualism. The best
men of the age not only do not give phrenology
any support, but do not as much as take the
trouble of mentioning it. When there is an ex-
ception to this rule, it is never in favour of phre-
nology. Oliver Wendell Holmes, for Instance,
says it is just as sensible to profess to know what
is insid i a safe by feeling the rivets on the out-
side, as to profess to know what is inside
a man’s head by feeling the bumps on the outside.
Ot course everybody remembers Captain Mar-
lyatt’s story of how Midshipman Easy’s father
proposed to make his head intellectual by con-
structing a machine for making artificial bumps.
This is not a scientific argument against phreno-
logy, but we do not use razors to cut butter. If
we wanted to argue about this matter wo believe
we could, but we don’t want. Broadly, we, of
course, think that something of a man’s character
may be guessed at from the shape of his head. Iu
detail, we don’t; because we have never yet met a
man who knew half the real nature of another,
oven when both had lived together for years. It is
well that this is so, otherwise the streets would be
strewn with the corpses of politicians. Leaving
out the previous view of the subject, however.
Professor Simon is well worth going to hear it one
wants to be amused. And who ever wants any-
thing more in this world ?
The two appointments for the See of
Sydney: Canon Barry appointed, Doan Cowper
dis-appointed.
Kennedy Konna attended Mass at St. Pat-
rick's in Ballarat on the 5th instant. His devotional
feeling- was visibly commendable. He spent tho
night in an out-house in pursuit of the high ideal,
and then putting a rope round a rafter, climbed
through a noose to Elysium. He is there now.
As significant of the triumph of principle
over prejudice—in the case of young debaters
from whom the Australian public men of the
future may be chosen—it may be mentioned that
at tho Sydney School of Arts a two-nights’ debate
resulted in its being affirmed that “The attempts
made to prevent the delivery of lectures by Mr.
Redmond, M.P., were arbitrary and tyrannical,
and an infringement of the liberty of speech.
About 1000 people were present.
The Minister of Public Instruction de-
clared with much truth t’ other day that the worst
result of the land system was the professional land
agent. Rough on his colleague, Parnell, though
What William Forster often insisted upon, the right
of Australian Agents-General to a seat in tho
Ambassadors’ Gallery of the House of Commons,
has at last been conceded by the Home Govern-
ment. The foreign representatives will doubtless
welcome Saul Samuel with “ Quo r liable nllcz-vou*
faire dam celtc yaUrc ?” The N.Z. Ministry are
by no means a happy family, and a startling change
is looked for by political prophets ...Mr. E. j
Stevens, M.L.A. for the Warrego, is said by the
Cunnamui pa Express to stand as much show of
re-election as an aboriginal would They are
’cute people, those N. Zealanders. Twelve months
ago last April an American broom was sent from
one government department in Wellington to
another away in a remote part of Otago. The
carriage was 6s. When l he article was delivered
it was purchasable for 3s. from the local store-
keeper. A few reams of paper have been spoilt
by application for that 6s., and now the carrier
threatens an action. Yet there are peop'e who aver
that the “Barnacle” family never crossed the line..
Mr. Trevor Jones, C.E., recently exhibited at the
Royal Society a Mining Indicator which showed
the extent to which diamond drills deviated from
a vertical position. A useful instrument, indeed !
But think of the exceeding value of an indicator
which would show the extent to which M.P.’s de-
flected from the line they got in on I Thus
“Wrecker.” The St. James’ Gazette says
that possibly the allegiance of the Australasias to
the Empire will depend to a considerable extent
upon the protection accorded to them by England
against the establishment by France of huge
criminal depots in the Pacific. The Gazette
might have added, “ and upon England refraining
from regarding them as sites for depositing her
own moral rubbish on.”....Thadeus O’Kane, who
is a candidate for the Kennedy, informs his friends
and supporters that “ the names to his requisition
will not be published. There is a reign of terror
established here and persons arc frighted into
silence. Many persons in business would injure
themselves by declaring for him. The
miners, except in some claims, are independent,
and they are not afraid to sign their names
to publish them to the world.”....
LIBERTY OF THE PRESS.
Dedicated to Humph ?


MERRY WITH "MARIE."
Our experience of “ stars” has been vast
and terrific. We have seen them of all sizes, of all
shapes, and especially of all grades. But not more
especially, now we think of it, more of all grades
than of all ages. As a rule,’ male stars are intoler-
ant, and female stars supercilious. Men who come
out here to play the melancholy Dane are, as a
rule, not content merely to belong to a club but
must carry one ; and all the Juliets we have
struck, conscious of the splendour of their silk
stockings, claim adulation as a right, and want you
to feebly talk “ shop” with them and load them up
with compliment’ when you ought to be at home
minding the baby. We have joked with “ Jo,”
palavered with Pomeroy, doneDewhurst to death,
and (our powers of alliteration break down here)
done a pitch with RIgnold. Worse than this, if
worse can be, we have detected ourselves humbly
hobnobbing with J. B. Howe—the very Wopsle of
tragedy. How did we get up the scaffolding for
everlasting merriment by waiting on, in a parlour
adjoining Larry Foley’s kitchen, Mr. Newton
Griffiths, “the celebrated English character actor ?”
And going farther back we can remember supping
with Scott-Siddons at the Oxford, and noticing
with what grace Jimmy Macmahon (manager),
carved the duck, while Captain S., in a Glengarry
bonnet, and with no perceptible shirt-collar, was
silently crushing flasks of usquebagh below. Poor
Siddons I It was whispered that, like Charles II.’s
Duke of Buckingham, he hadn’t been sober for
fifteen vears; but there all resemblance between
the parties ceases. Ada Ward (despite her predi-
lection for “As You Like It’ with the Great
Larrv as Chawles the Wrestler) was a merry star,
and it was some fun to interview her if only to
watch the proceedings of her admirers and agents.
If she smiled on the former, a frosty gloom would
overspread the countenances of her staff; while if
she lavished some small attention on an agent, the
“mashes” would make perfect Patagonians of
themselves with the broad. All the time glances of
mingled admiration, despair, hope, and distrust
flashed like meteors round the board; and every-
body was pressing everybody else s foot under the
table under the impression that it was Ada s.
• • •
There is, we take it, no small amount of art
reoulred to interview a star successfully. At first
we were tyros at the game, but now practice has
made us as nearly perfect as it is permitted to
mortals to be. One golden rule we have laid down
Is to never let the subject of the Interview say any-
thing about affairs theatrical. Once allow a star
to draw a chair up near you and commence It
was at the Theatre Royal, Edinburgh, in the year
so and so, and your notes you will find next day (If
vou live) to be merely a dramatic almanac about
twice the length of “ David Copperfleld.” Every-
body remembers those old bares in the ancient
fnrcfi*—“ heavy fathers.” in every sense—who,
leading the heroine down to the footlights, fetch
two chairs, and, after ceremoniously seating her,
will begin—“The time has now arrived when 1
should tell you that your dying mother, with her
latest breath, confided you to my care. . . .
Well these are nothing to the pains and penalties
whio\i the narratives of stars inflict upon you,
if vou will only be unwary enough to provoke
them. We didn’t allow Louise Pomeroy to say
much, nor Jennie Lee, and we didn’t let Dewhurst
sav anything. When we had resolved, however,
te heard Bandmann in his lair, and to be loquacious
with Louise, we don’t mind telling you that it was
not without some trepidation that we approached
the stronghold of the terrible Teuton. But we
drove up* in the gay sunshine, and lifting our
heart as far out of our boots as the derrick of a
stern determination would admit of, alighted. We
saw a tall man, with long hair, surrounded by a
nrofessional “ push,” gesticulating in the lobby.
could not hear wnat he said, but he looked
angrv Then we made a pretence of fumbling
with the cabman’s money, in order that we might
borrow some weapon, which would successfully
enable us to act on the defensive. The Jehu, hav-
ing peremptorily refused us the loan of his whip,
we asked him for the loan of his boot, but with no
better result. Then, despairingly, wo plunged in.
“ How do you do? I’m glad to see you.’ r This
from a tall man whose “ get-up was Immaculate,
and who wore brilliants on his fingers, a watch-
chain all over his waistcoat, and who spoke !n pro-
nounced, if not authoritative, tones. “Quito well,
thank vou.” was our timid response. “ Como this
wav ’’ said he. This being rather an ominous an-
nouncomont, and seeing the impossibility of being
able to borrow, on the spur of the moment, either
the stick of Simmons, or the bludgeon of Bayliss
(kept for sectarian reporters) we falteringly fol-
lowed. ♦
Mr Bandmann’s office is a very pleasant
place,’ whenyou get there. But you have to thread
vour way down a long passage, which, besides
being as dark as BillyWilson, has, at every few
yardf, a couple of stops calculated to lure the un-
wary to destruction, and a collection of beams just
below them which are equally fatal to the fore-
heads of the heedless, we got on pretty well,
though Whenever Narclsse cried out Mind the
.ten R we plunged wildly forward, and were in-
variably brought up by butting him in the back.
Feeling that death was so near at hand, we grew
reckless. And when, at length, we struggled into
the light together, wo stood up pale, perhaps, and
with Dosora heaving, but prepared not to yield
without a struggle, es; to the credit of a glorious
profession be it known that, with fixed though
bloodshot eyes, we confronted him, and, with
hands nervously clenching a stylpgraphio pen, we
stood there, breathless, ready to do or die.
* * *
“Come in.” Through one room which
used, under Damplor’s regime, to bo the Green
Room, into a dainty office furnished with an
Oriental splendour which must ever reflect glory
noon dear old “ L.M.” for the taste and judgment
he displayed in the selection of the articles. The
sofa was yellow, the carpet was red, the wall-paper
was a dream in green and.gold, and the chairs, so
far as our remembrance serves us, were ol a blue
which reminded us of the cerulean colour of a
Uomo sky: their hue was so decided, so intense.
There was an elaborate cscriUnre there covered
with papers and plays and letters. On our enter-
ing Herr Bandmann closed the door. Then wo
noticed how little ho looked like an actor, and how
much he looked like a poet. On the portal
being closed, we said, “Sir, since it must come
tei blows • Since blood must flow and hair must fiy,
Jwmie on Then, turning suddenly upon us, he
ZT “Will you try a botfle of lager ?” This un-
manned us. We wrung his hand, and he imme-
fiiatelv rang the bell. Then we sat down and
talked He has the mildest voice you ever heard,
and all his actions are—this phrase is written for
the benefit of our fellow journalists-excessively
“genteel.” “Nearly all my old Wends, said he,
“are dead now . . . I We then hastened to
assure him that we were only a casual acquaint-
ancel “Why.” he continued, with an indulgent
beam “ when I, in 1868, appeared at the Lyceum as
SStose, “tokens. Forster. Lord Lytton, Tom
Taylor were all amongst my dearest friends.
Where are they all now! It is a fact that Band-
mann, in private converse, is excitable. Ho gesticu-
lates but his diction is remarkably smooth and
poUsiied, peculiarly courteous, and undeniably
clever Ho is full of anecdote, and tells a screamer
about a star who not very long ago departed.
“ This gentleman,” said Bandmann, had a ben.
here, and the occasion was rendered remarkable
bv toe amount of floral decorations thrown to
him The Press, of course, noticed this, and the
beneMare was covered with glory. 1 was glad of
this, too, until I discovered that, when I com-
menced to occupy the same apartments, three
cabs went away loaded with bouquets on the benefit
night and afterwards the landlord had to hire a
dray id which to cart away the stalks and wire.”
At this moment Miss Beaudet arrived.
Nearly everybody has seen her as the Woman of
the People, making nightly the stalls sob and the
circle snivel. On the stage, It is no figure of speech
to say she is an actress who is one bunch of excite-
ment, one bundle of emotion. She acts until she
struggles and weeps, and is exhausted. Anyone
watching her critically can see that when playing
for the public she is lost to the world. Once before
the footlights, she is either quivering with passion
or melted with pathos; either witheringly scorn-
ful, or tremblingly beseeching. And wnat is she
off the stage? We will tell you. She is a small,
brown-eyed school-girl in a plain green dress, a
little brown hat, a simple gold bracelet and chain,
and an Elizabethan amount of ruffling. She carries
a long cane with a gold top, and has contracted
with Divine Providence for a delightful dimple on
each cheek. There is about her no trace of even a
scintilla of “ make-up,” and her brown hair is done
up in a manner simple enough to break the heart
of any man who shaves gentlemen easily and curls
ladles fashionably. She is, in fact, the model of
simplicity, and wnat is the more remarkable she is
far more attractive off the stage than on it. She Is
full of life and animation, and her voice has about
it a singular charm. And she laughed nearly all
the time. So far as we are concerned, toe moment
she appeared we became drivellers, and the instant
she spoke we lapsed into idiocy. We could be
funny with Pomeroy, jocular with Ada Ward, and
sarcastic with Siddons; but with Beaudet we were
crumpled up from the first moment In which her
silvery [Phew!— Ed. B.]
» * *
Mr. Bandmann, after a bit, left us to-
gether, and perceiving that she had a feeble and
prostrate creature before her, she proceeded to tell
us that before she took to tragedy, etc., her line was
opera bouffe—having enacted Josephine in a
“ kid ” “ Pinafore,” and Serpolette in a precocious
“Cloches.” After this she did a term with Aimeo
(that gray youngr thing:), and subsequently joined
Clara Morris for nine months, playing inginue
parts. Smlke, in "Nicholas Nickleby,” was her
first big hit; but afterwards she was brought out
in ’Frisco by Bandmann, as Lady Macbeth, and to
the surprise of all who had known her only as an
opera bouffe artiste and a soubrette, she played the
part with so much effect that the general impres-
sion is, over there, that she has to send her hands
to the steam laundry weekly, in order to get “ the
filthy witness” purged from out them. You re-
member the passage:—
“ Go get some water
And wash this filthy witness from your hand.
My hands are of your colour; but I shame
To wear a heart so white.”
Then the conversation proceeded as follows :—
Ourselves : How old are you. Miss Beaudet ?
Miss B.: I am the same age as every lady star-
seventeen.
Ourselves: Mr. Bandmann, we believe, is your
uncle I
Miss B.: He is more than my uncle.
Ourselves : Your aunt, then ?
Miss B. : Sir 1
Ourselves : You have a mother, madam ?
Miss B. ; Yes. (Timidly.) It is usual, is it not, to
have a mother ?
J Never having had anything but an aunt, cur-
ves, we evaded this question.']
Ourselves : You are very fond of playing, Miss
Beaudet ?
Miss B. : Very. We are— d’ailleurs— a musical
family.
Ourselves : What do you like playing best ?
Miss B.: The trombone.
Ourselves : We beg your—er—pardon ?
Miss B. (with a sweet smile) : Yes; I took to the
trombone when I grew perfect in the flute.
Ourselves: Who taught you the trombone ?
Miss B. (much affected): My dear mamma.
Ourselves : And —the flute?
Miss B. (with emotion) : Ma chfere maman.
Ourselves : Does Mr. Bandmann play anything i
Miss B. : Oh, yes. The German concertina.
Ourselves : And he was instructed by—•
Miss B. (deeply moved): Maman cherie.
Ourselves: She must be a talented old lady
what is the instrument she makes a speciality oi i
Miss B. : The big drum.
Ourselves : Ana who instructed her i
Miss B. (in a frenzy of grief): My dear papa, iou
see (smiling), our resources are infinite.
Ourselves : This is confidence. You have the
opportunity of studying Herr Bandmann s charac-
ter for some time. Is it true that his favourite
dish is “ reporter d la maltre d'htitel ?’’
Miss B. ( calmly ): How could he have eaten a
Sydney reporter, and he alive f
Ourselves : But “ editor au champignons —he
is partial to that ?
Miss B. : He may have eaten an editor or two ,
but, as a rule, he is the mildest of men.
Ourselves (with trepidation) : Do you think he
W Miss l fif* (after surveying us critically) : Decidedly
: Do you consider Bandmann to be a
great actor? , , . . ,
Miss B. : I consider him to be, in some points,
lengths ahead of any of them.
Ourselves : As regards his hair?
Miss B. (with emotion): His hair, I own, is long ;
but no longer than his record is bright, than his
nature is gentle. I have been for years his pupil:
he, my master. He has been my uncle, guardian,
preceptor, friend, and manager. I have been his
niece, ward, pupil, and supporter. But he comes.
•
He came back, then, beaming, and we had
a good, though bizarre, time. To watch Bandmann
and Beaudet together is a singular study. All the
time, he is the stern master, she the meek pupil.
But though heis, in matters of detail, short with
her, she is not afraid of him; but her great adraira
tion for his talents is evinced by the fact of her
seldom, if over, taking her eyes off his face. She
would glance at us, sometimes, but almost imme-
diately shift her gaze from us to him. We tried,
in truth, several times to fix her wii h our glittering
eye, but the experiment cannot be conscientiously
written down a success. There is one thing certain.
She is only a child, and be treats her like a child.
We intended practising teaching our children in
the same manner; but, no sooner had we comman-
ded the Biloelan to muster the crowd for the roll-
call, then we discovered that the family had gone
down—in consequence of our having had a slight
misunderstanding with the coal-yard—to gather
wood by the margin of the broad Pacific. Though
undoubtedly eccentric, Herr Bandmann is a man
of great culture; and he is so funny that be makes
you laugh until your mouth would call a blush to
the cheek of a salad bowl. He (and Miss B., too)
talk with equal facility in English, French, and
Gorman. We aired our French on this occasion,
and both were polite enough to pretend to
understand it ; but we doubt if they did.
Towards the close of the interview, Mr.
Hoskins dropped in. He looked, the giddy boy,
quite a masher in his grey suit, and, we hope, won’t
die for a good while yet. He says he is getting
younger every day, and intends, in a few weeks, to
play Charles Surface for his benefit, and after-
wards dance the College hornpipe.
* * •
Well, it was a pleasant morning, anyhow ;
pleasant to gaze on pretty brown eyes, and to laugh
and be merry. Pleasant to read the titles of Ger-
man plays, and to hypocritically pretend to under-
stand them. But more pleas mt than all to find on
reaching the street that the cab had vanished, and
thus we had escaped the usual combat concerning
the fare. And so away, resisting (for once) an
offer of Sheridan (who is rehearsing “ King Lear ")
to “set ’em up;”—away to hitch up the perambffl
later and wheel him (by order) to-and-fro in the
sun.
BRIEF MENTION.
An express train, carrying first-class pas.
sengers only, Is to run daily from Sydney to Mel-
bourne in future. And they call this a democratic
country! One of these days we shall have to be
importing a guillotine.
A Cooktown blackfellow recently called
on the local clergyman, and asked, “ Mas’r, you tell
it Jimmy how white feller cook ’em sugar so h«
drink ’im out of bottle, an’ then want It sing, an’
kill evlybody. Hey ?” But the cleric wasn’t K on."
A man died in Dublin the other day from
drinking teetotal drinks. Only an Irishman could
have died from such a cause. Still, it is well toe
the public to know the danger they run in con-
suming these beverages. We are not afraid for
ourselves.
Discoursing on Continental cholera in (he
News, Dr. Bowker Informs us that only 14,378 died
from cholera and 17,170 from diarrhoea in 1866
Coffins were sent for patients as soon as attacked.*
and he knew many to recover for whom coffins
had been provided. Moral: First order your coffin
then the doctor.
“ It is not to sweep the house, and make
the beds, and darn the socks, and cook the mealg
that a man wants a wife,” observes a country
paper, and follows it up by speculating on what
men really do require wives for. Well, we know
hut we intend keeping it to ourselves and letting
other people find out as we were obliged to.
A poor fellow up at Charters Towers was
the other day, charged with stealing a pair of
crutches and a splint from the Ravenswood
Hospital. He was going on to the Towers, and he
was just so much snort of an outfit. Nobody ever
thinks of going there without a pair of crutches, a
supply of glass-eyes, and a coffin.
A parson appears to have made the state-
ment some time ago that Shakespeare was a Pro-
testant. Immediately following this, a man writes
to the Australian— a Roman Catholic paper
published in Brisbane—arguing that if Shakespeare
was anything he was a Catholic. For our part wo
consider he was a Callthumpian or a Thug.
The Argus reporter, in describing the 300
passengers of the Pathan, writes: “The Irish elo-
( ment. Judging from the cast of features and the
’ talk, predominated. Yet there were some respect-
able individuals on board.” The italic 1s ours, but
the lie, by Implication, is his. Don’t hurt him. He
got orders to be picturesque, and that’s his best
effort.
Mr. Elliott, the gentleman who recently
kicked his poor, paralysed old paramour to death,
was sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment only.
One of the Campbelltown robbers, however, re-
ceived twelve years for his first attempt at th*
business. Unfortunately for himself, the latter
handed in a certificate of good character signed by
Sir Henry Parkes, and this, no doubt, justly pre-
judiced the Court against him.
It was in a southern town that, a cow
having broken its leg, two gallant troopers started
out with carbines to end its sufferings by death.
They fired twenty-five shots at her; and finally a
butcher came out and cut her head off. Then ths
cow died. When the bushrangers infested that
district lately, these gallant officers were of courss
“on the alert” all the time, and if they’d only
come across the desperadoes—whew I
Several barbers were fined at the Central
Police Court, the other day, for sharing on a
Sunday. They were convicted under a statute of
Charles the Second. The alternative, if they did
not pay the fine, was Incarceration in the stocks.
But we have no stocks here. Which is well. If
stocks were in fashion, there would not be timber
enough to meet the demand—unless some of the
clergymen and police magistrates would lend their
heads.
Wilcannia must be a nice kind of place to
live in if the local paper is to be believed, iF-the
paper—says the Government have given instruc-
tions to the Police Magistrate there to “ engage the
services of a public flogger immediately.” And
the flogger can’t be obtained, because — well,
because there is nobody there who dare throw the
first stone, or give the first stripe. If there were,
the whole population of Wilcannia—we speak, • f
courst, from what their papers say of them—
would go about like zebras for evermore.
A Social Purity Society is to be established
shortly in Perth. Perth Is a place controlled by
Irresponsible officials, who make the Goddess of
Justice walk arm-in-arm with the hangman—where
there is one law for the white man and another for
the black—where they convict and strangle a wild
blackfellow for murder on the evidence of his
own wife (her testimony being admitted on the
cold-blooded legal quibble that a native marriage
is not a marriage at all). The Law and the Church
go as well together as do the blind goddess and the
man with the rope. “ And honoured well are
charms to sell, if priests the selling do.” They will
be establishing a Social Purity Society in Hell next.
“Pull the bolt, hangman.”
This is a suaall yarn about a large barmaid.
She was engaged at a theatre saloon, and, although
pleasant and even jocular, no one could say any-
thing against her moral character. In short, she
acquired the reputation of being virtuous, and, so
far as anyone knew, deservedly so. A sodden
young fashionable ruffian from London coming
into the place for the first time, and inquiring
thirstily concerning her, was made acquainted
with this fact. But, as she handed him his whisky
and soda, ho leered at her offensively and sneered;
“Pooh! every woman has her price!” Near by
stood Charlie Paterson, fresh from the survey-
camp, broad, sinewy, hard as nails, and quite in
love with the massive Hebe. Asked Charlie:
“ What was that you said ?” “ I said that every
woman has her price!” “ Indeed ?” quoth Charlie,
“ what was your mother’s ?”
Sloggins went to see his nephew at the
Melbourne University the other day, and while
the youth was pointing out some spectacles of
interest, the old man drove his stick at a’board and
asked: “ What’s that about ? ” “That’s D1 Bagno*
appeal for Virgil,” replied the youth. “Virgil.
Virgil,” muttered the old man; “ anything to do
with the Creswick disaster ? ” “ No, sir. He was a
great writer of poetry ” “ Ha, yes, yer right. I
mind they tackled me up at Sydney about it last
Christmas. He had a wife and chlider hard up.
How’s the wife doing now?” “I think that was
Kendall.” “ No, my boy, no, I gev a pound to him.
It was Virgil. That’s the name. I ceuldn’t te
mistaken.” “ But Virgil is dead this last —-
“ Don’t I know he is. Didn’t I tell ye he left a wit*
and childer? I was there at the time, and I gev»
pound. What’s that ovei* there ? ” And the youth
was silent.
Says the Echo Australians have made
it no secret that they are far from satisfied with
the circumstances under which both Trlckett
and Laycock met their great opponent, and there
is now an opportunity of settling the matter.
This is news to us ! What can have cropped up
now, we wonder? Weren’t our men beaten tv
enough or often enough ? Then, again, what WJ
these circumstances ? This is the kind of writing
that sporting-men Jove and the non-talent laug“
at. Perhaps, by the same token the London peop**
are not satisfied by the “circumstances”
which Largau was gruelled and Perkins
off. If they are not, they don’t say so I And we.
unable to take our licking gently, do. Now w*
should really like to have toe portrait of the
here who is honestly not satisfied with the circuit
stances under which Triokett and laycock wer*
licked. And when we’d had a good laugh gt
picture we’d send it to Tarban Greek to amuse ip
other madmen.
They can’t understand at the pub. why Boosey invariably carries these pillows about
when he makes a “wet” night of it.
This is the reason. A matterof delicate feeling. Mrs. Boosey, you know, might


Caution to parsons. Dillon, S.M., sent up
a blackfellow, the other day, for six months, for
going about begging and intimidating women.
The collection of Australian fossils in the
Museum has been arranged. It will be completed
soon. They are waiting for a judge and an aider-
man.
A genius of an Orangeman in Toowoomba
(Q.) finds fault with the Queensland system of
education. He fails to see that any system of
education can be called secular which allows Roman
notation to be taught in the Public Schools.
The court-house at Ipswich (Q.) is said to
be so dirty that Judge Harding, when he was there
last, had to get a table-cloth placed over the floor
•‘to keep his feet clean.” Most Judges are more
careful about keeping their hands clean. Most!
Two men were found abeut a week ago
lying In a street In Burrowa, apparently dead.
There was a bottle lying beside them, and It was
supposed to have contained rum. It didn't, how-
ever: it only contained poison. That’s why they
recovered.
A Jew has just gained a Hebrew scholar-
ship at Oxford. He is the first of his race who has
done so. Certainly. When people want to borrow
money, they don’t come and ask for it in Hebrew.
What, then, is the use of learning Hebrew—except
that it is a good language to curse in.
Life may be analysed into happiness,
misery, and justice. The rich represent all the
happiness of which the world is now capable, and
the poor all the misery; and justice is that which,
having set this state of things agoing, enables it to
continue. Such is the creed of the Plutocrat,
when his name is added to the Commission of the
Peace.
The Council Clerk at Forbes is credited by
the local paper with being a man of altogether a
marvellously determined spirit. An alderman
asked him to do some bill-sticking, and he refused,
saying it was no part of his duty to stick bills. All
Forbes turns out to look at him now as he walks
down the street. They feel that a man of such
desperate resolution and dogged dignity is an
honour to the town.
Ah, ah! Ter-remble, tryrants! Tcr-rernblo!
With one hand planted beneath the tail of his
borrowed banger, with the other fiercely fighting
the Inoffensive air, while the baffled wind vainly
endeavoured to uproot a single hair on his bald
head, a Northern patriot declared, the other day,
that “the vortex of rings and syndicates with
which Queensland Is threatened bade fair to suck
the life blood of the colony like a grasping, greedy
octagon /”
There is nothing like aiming high. At the
meeting of the “Mutual Improvement Society”
of Wollongong, the first part of the evening was
taken up by Mr. M'Klnley’s paper on “the relation
of thought and matter. ’ So the question that
agltatedthe Stoics and Peripatetics of old Greece,
and before them the smart men ante Anarmmnon,
and after them the myriads stretching from Plato
to Mill, is to be settled after all in Wollongong. It
is there that the final struggle is to take place, and
we are to learn once for all whether thought is
merely a secretion of the brain as saliva is of
certain glands, or whether it is something entirely
apart from matter, having an independent exis-
tence of its own.
When William Chambers (who died im-
mensely wealthy and a baronet of a few days)
commenced his literary career, his notions as to
personal expenditure, were not extravagantly
conceived. His board and lodging cost him just
4s. a week. His room was eighteen-pence, and
here is the daily minu of his “ little three ”
“ Breakfast—Porridge %d, butter-milk .. Id.
Dinner—Broth bread %d lJ4sd,
Supper—Same as breakfast Id.
And yet, out here, literary men, who have not
more than double the abilitv of the late William,
give the restaurant girl fits if, when sliced open,
there is a pink tint about the liver.
A prisoner in Sydney was sentenced, the
other day, to fifteen penal servitude. He is 39
years of age, and has already served, or partly
served, six or seven sentences. Five, ten, fifteen
years, and even “ death ” have been recorded
against him. Advanced and humane men in
Europe have for some time past been preaching
that if crime is ever to be suppressed, or even sen-
sibly reduced, persons of this description should
never get the chance of enjoying freedom again.
They should never be allowed to breed their kind
and pass on to other generations their tainted pro-
geny. As criminals from necessity (tor they are as
morally imperfect as a man born without arms is
physically) they should be prevented from passing
their poison through the community. The men
who advocate this segregation of habitual crimi-
nals have been called dreamers, doctrinaires, and
worse. Yet in view of this Darlinghurst felon and
his sentence, it is Just possible they have the stick
by the right end after all.
Just see what the advent of a general
election does. This is the ret ort courteous, as it's
understood In Queensland. Speaking of the Mary-
borough Chronicle fellah, the Wide Bay News
says : “ It is to be hoped that no electoral roll will
ever be sullied with name of such a cur, but that
he will eontinue to be hunted as he has been in the
past, from the society of all who get to know him
for what he is.” And then, like Silas Wegg, the
Wide Bay brigand drops into poetry thus :
“ The short, fat, lumbering bald pate drew
His fetid breath from Styx’s stagnant spew.”
Wonder what kind of libel jurors they raise up
North 7 Probably each is half a boss an’ half an
alligator.
These are degenerate days with a ven-
geance. All the fir© old fighting spirit seems to
have died rait completely. Look at the twelfth of
July, for instance! It passed off without a single
broken head or black eye. And we remember the
time when every second man you'd meet would be
walking along with more of his skull in his hand
than on his shoulders. Times! Why, in those
times a man who had any respect for himself or his
religion would consider he had demeaned himself
forever if he were able to go rut of the house for
a week after the twelfth. Compare this healthy
spirit with the conduct of the people at Launces-
ton, Tasmania, last twelfth. There seems to be a
spark of the old feeling in the crowd. Parties
wdnt around wearing orange ribbons, others wear-
ing green, but they only boohooed at each other as
they passed. In Ireland the place would have been
knee-deep in gore, with half such provocation.
An old lady thrashed a small boy with her umbrella
and two men started to fight and were run in to the
lock-up. This was the end of it all in Launceston.
We begin to think the world is going to the dogs
very fast.
Every fellow who has ever run a barge,
bossed a raining shaft, or had a commission in the
volunteers must needs dub himself captain ; and,
what’s more, his friends are usually idiotic enough
to comply with his fancy, so that “ captains ” are
beginning to be as common in N.8.W. as colonels
are in America. Up Cabramatta wav, for instance,
there are two J.P.’s who are called “ captains,” the
one because he once commanded a ketch in the
guano trade; the otner because he was once a
volunteer subaltern officer. And the same sort of
snobbish avidity to have a kind of handle to one’s
name is developing Itself in female circles, such
offensive and false and ridiculous expressions as
Mrs. Dr. Bonesetter ” and “ Mrs. Canon Split-
straw" gradually coming Into fashion. The
Gormans have this custom,; we admit; but its
monstrous odiousness on their lips should make it
one more honoured in the breach than in the
imitation. Could anything sound worse than
‘ Miss Clerk of Petty Sessions Jones 7” or “ Master
Chief Clerk in Insolvency Pott 7” or “ Mrs. Inspec-
tor of Nuisances Drain well 7” and vet this is what
it will come to if the practice isn’t nipped in the
bud by healthy satire.
It is a great lark to find “The Woman of
the People ” under the patronage of John Davies,
Esq., John Boseby, Esq., and other temperance
centres; but it is a greater lark still to find that
“Dr.” Fawcett addressed the audience between
the 4th and 5th acts of the play, and told then' how
a little boy who had seen the play, going home and
telling his pa., who, it seemed, was generally
alcohol leal ly paralysed, that he had seen a man
rolling about just like him, which (we quote the
Herald) “so touched the heart of the man that
he went next day and took the pledge. Dr.
Fawcett assured the audience that this touching
fact came under his personal knowledge.” We
have seen nothing funnier than this since Sladen’s
last poem. AVe rather suspect this boy to be the
son of the party who was “yours gratefully ” be-
cause he had a lit and was sent to the Infirmary.
Of the bond fiths of “Dr.” Fawcett, we have, of
course, no doubt whatever. We have always
respected that gentleman since we saw the lovely
lyric about him in a country paper which ends so
touchingly as follows
“ Whoe’er is afflicted, don’t hesitate long,
But go to the friend who swiftly makes strong,
The great Homoepathist now in Bathurst so
m famed
For cures he has effected B. Fawcett is named.”
SHADE OF NELSON: "AM I THUS DEGRADED? A WARDEN OF FELONS?"


rjl H E GLEBE ELECTION.
Fellow-Electors of the Gleb©,—Gentlemen : It
has been stated that your present Parliamentary
representative, Sir G. Wigram Allen, is about to
resign his seat in the Legislative Assembly, and I
understand that a requisition is in course of signa-
ture, before the public announcement of the fact,
inviting a gentleman to fill the vacancy. Under
those circumstances, I feel justified in informing
you that, should our member place his resignation
in the hands bf the Speaker, It is my Intention to
offer myself as a candidate for your suffrages.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A ratepayer has sent to that quarrelsome
body, the Brisbane Municipal Council, a set ol
well-made boxing-gloves, ticketed: “The harder
war the sooner peace.” It is proposed to lay the
gloves on the table at each meeting- According
to the Minister of Education there is one prominen
peculiarity about new Public Schools In N.S.W
when the buildings are finished and furnished
there are no scholars. Just as the last shingle Is
nailed on. the last family takes up another selec-
tion— The Victorian Minister of Railways has
decided to appoint a special staff of porters to at-
tend to passengers’ luggage. Gooachap should
follow suit, and improve on the Idea by establish-
ing a special staff of Inspectors to see that the
special staff of luggage porters do their duty al
round—for old female second-class passengers as
politely and promptly as for M.P.s and C.M.G.s
The Rum, In a notice of Mr. Cleary’s “ Les Genres
Franvals,” says that the book ought to be very
useful to people studying the courteous language
of old Gaul—a comment which must be Infernally
galling to Cleary, who Is supposed to be a teacher
of modern French Christian Wermuth wrote
from Roma to a Brisbane newspaper stating that
at Gowrle Station,where he was employed, they had
tried to cut off his hair. Then he wrote again from
Brisbane, saying that everything about him was
damned but that his life was clean and holy. Then
his body was found Heating in the Brisbane River..
One Blcklson advertises for a canvasser with brick-
yard connection to collect orders for a first-class
colliery. A canvasser with brickyard connection
would be hard to beat—or kick The new Goul-
burn Gaol Is out of the contractor's hands. A feed
celebrated the termination of the Job—and, at the
feed. Bill Teoce, M.L.A., was present radiant with
Joy to think that Wollondillyville had at last a
convenient jug. Wo do not know whether the
Colonial Architect provided a special cell for
M’s.P. in his design for the now gaol, but trust
that such is the case Gakkanny suggests that
the founders of the Sydney Newsboys Brigade
should follow the boys from their labour to their
homes. How would the seven reverends like the
founders of an association to promote their iuttlii-
gence to follow them from their labour to their
omes ?— Sammy' Lees is now a J.P. He is moving
on. Wo don’t despair of his bringing his career
to a glorious termination by actually becoming a
C.M.G. ’Tis a pity the latter dignity is not trans-
ferable. If it were, John, having no further use
for it, would be able to pass it along to Sammy, say
for two farthings — The Noose records that last
Tuesday a headstone was dug up near Sydney
Town Hall foundations, 12ft. below the surface,
bearing the following Inscription, so fares could
bo made out:—“Sacred to the memory ly Car-
berry who departed this life on Oct. 6,1810, aged
05.” This (it goes on to remark, with characteristic
correctness) was exactly five years after the battle
of Trafalgar, and tlvo years before that of Water-
loo. And going back 08 years, when the departed
was born, would bring us to 1716—the year of the
rebellion, and the Pretender, Bonnie Prince
Charlie. And a few other thoughts (The Noose
adds) are suggested by the same headstone.” If
they had only none back 2825 yeai s, they’d have been
brought to the year when Solomon penned the im-
mortal words: “Though thou shouldst bray a
fool In a mortar, yet will not his foolishness depart
from him.” — At Browarrina, a man was lined £2
for drunkenness and £5 for obscene language—the
magistrate remarking that defendant had the
foulest tongue which had over come under his
notice—At Newtown, a person was brought up
for stone-throwing. The police are determined to
pot down this nuisance. The offender, oddly
enough, could not come without his mother. He
was nearly four years of ago and she nursed him
into court. Although the case was dismissed, It is
just as well to know that these desperate charac-
ters are not to have It all their own way In future.
Rule Britannia! — The Victorian Railway Minister
Hnds it necessary to enlarge the Prince’s Bridge
station. As the “Terrorists” of '93 would be
satisfied with nothing less than the head of a king,
so nothing loss than the morgue will meet Mr.
Gillies’ demands. If the place he is so anxious to
obtain could only give us an outline of the lives of
those who found in it, after death, a resting place
the struggles, temptations, loves, nates, of the un-
fortunates—the “last look of the despairing” be-
fore the final plunge—the last feeble struggle be-
fore life went out under the murderer’s blows—
how poor, opium-inspired Poe would have gloated
over the details, and woven them into uncanny
stories! And this spot may become a ladies’ wait-
ing room! Ugh I.... At the Central Police Court,
John Pope was sent up for seven days for having
some Iron in his possession, it was a case of steal.
John had some brass about him, too, but it was
not concealed....264oz. gold taken from Gant's
“ Chance " claim, Mulgrave River, N.Q. Prospector
says his reef gets better with cepth....A Bath-
urst paper takes occasion to congratulate its
readers on the speedy prospect of a new gaol being
erected up there, we suppose there are men
enough about who have been convicted of at-
tempting to kill the editor to till a good-sized gaol.
If not, there can’t be much public spirit in
Bathurst. ..A laughing-jackass came Into the school
at Taree on the Manning River, lately, and stayed
there and laughed consumedly at everything ho
saw until he was put out. It is supposed he was a
school inspector metamorphosed. They don’t have
to metamorphose much. ...The Sandhurst larrikins
have made a rear attack on the Salvation Army'.
The "military” was represented on the occasion
by one person. He was a Pentridge man, and was
just at the part where he found Grace, when a
diversion was made in his rear with a clothos-prop.
. .Annexation is in the air. Before the New Guinea
business is half through, Melbourne wants to an-
nex Emerald Hill Somebody' has discovered
that garlic cures hydrophobia. Wo should prefer
the hydrophobia The framer of the new Vic-
torian Railway Management Bill is a humorist.
The bill provides that “every officer taking lees
shall lose his office and forfeit £50.” Who ever
heard of a Civil Servant worth £50 V Shomomlnce,
vouldn’t Mishter Vaxmau like to know him!
Not content with one President, the N.S.W.
Poultry, Pigeon, and Canary Society must needs
have two. But why not three S'—one to represent
the poultry, another the pigeons, and another the
canaries; say' Greville to represent the geese, etc ,
Bradley the yellow boys, and Cupid for the turtle
doves, pouters, and so on. ..The Master Tanners
of Victoria complain that the railway wattle
plantations are planted too thick for the trees to
become of use. The impression had been borne
in upon us that those wattle plantations were, as
evidences of an economic policy, a trifle too thin..
Savs Gahhanny, referring to the Sydney "News-
boys’ Brigade ” : “The need of an organization of
this description is demonstrated by the fact that
up to the present time 90 boys have joined the
brigade, many of whom, being employed the
greater part of the day in selling papers, do not
attend any school, and are consequently growing
up In the grossest ignorance.” it strikes us that
what is wanted is more activity and attention to
duty pn the part of the school attendance officers.
... Fiji—toolish Fiji—is about to start a Government
Printing Office: as if she hadn’t enough white
elephants already. But. as Cowan and Co. chuckle,
It’s an 111 wind that blows nobody good
Mary Muir was "run in” for a hat and pair of
stays. She observed, simply, " I did not do It with
intent to steal.” They never do. They alwavs
intend to take them round the block and back
again. Mary will have to content herself with one
pair of stays tor a month... It was an exploring
party of 30, and its destination the Black Jack
Mountain caves, near Yarramao. The eyes and
noses of all wore appealed to by a dead swagmau
lying near the principal entrance. A hasty re-
treat was made, and further enjoyment ceased
-at least for that day. Next day the police
went tor the corpse. It was that of an old
man Kangaroo. And the cheated excursionists
want to nnd out the person that put him there.
1 he prospects of the Barrier River silver mines seem
magnillcent.. When a Houtheru police sergeant was
testimonialised, the other day, the chairman of the
meeting said: “The sergeant’s multifarious duties
had been performed with great satisfaction to the
inhabitants at large.'... The Parramatta corres-
pondent of the Nooze declares that it is the inten-
tion of the Mayor and aldermen to open the new
Town Hail with great heclaw, (Claw me, claw thee.
you know)....David Gaunson was recently de-
fending a Melbourne publican for selling after
hours, and seemed dreadfully anxious to know
who was present in the hotel at the time the deed
was done. The gentleman In the box at the time
(one of the guilty thirsty souls) seemed very re-
luctant to tell, and was shifting and shuttling when
David roared: “None of this trifling, sir; remem-
ber you are on your oath, sir. Now, who else was
in the hotel besides yourself?” “Well, If you
mast know,” blurted out the witness, “it was your
own brother William.” W.G. was in the Court at
the time, and looked—oh 1 so joyful.. . .About half
a ton of valuable minutes and records of the Muni-
cipal Council of Paris has just been received by
the City Fathers of Sydney. The minutes arc written
in French, of course. R-r-r-vengoI The time has
come. Now we miss the valuable services of the
greatest French scholar of the ago, John Davies,—
the mvant who has forgotten more about every
other language than he knows about his own.
“ Dan.” O’Connor thinks the French authorities
simply want to know how they should act In the
present Tonquin trouble, but Sammy Lees, L.O.L.,
is understood to swear that the whole thing Is a
Jesuitical plot to unite the office of the Lord Mayor
with that of the R.C. Archbishop, and to enable the
Franco-colonial clergy to lot their Dundrearies
grow and act as aldermen The “Queensland
squatter,” who victimized so many people at
Warrnatnbool (Vic.), has not since been heard of.
He is supposed to bo passing through the country
in disguise. We mention this so that people may
keep a sharp eye on Gospel sharps N.Z. Parlia-
ment has rejected the bill by which it was sought
to make it Illegal to publish advertisements of
sweeps in newspapers Humphrey Rawlings, an
Auckland citizen, has left £150 to the local
Y.M.C.A.. and £1500 for the establishment of pub-
lic scholarships At Auckland, N.Z., Samuel
Dickson was found dead in bod, at his wretched
hovel. Ho left a bottle of rurn on the table At
Hokitika, Michael Costello got 18 months for con-
cealing £430 from his creditors.
♦ * ♦
Polygamous institutions develop architec-
tural ability. 13.000 Mormons can clear out of the
Salt Lake City tabernacle by 30 double doors in a
minute and a quarter At Southampton on the
33nd May, Stephen Lewis, a retired gunner, died at
the ago of 106. Ninety years ago he was pressed
for the navy. That he was at Trafalgar goes with-
out saving.. The Khedive has returned to Cairo
“to direct the measures being taken for the pre-
vention of the spread of cholera.” Pickles.
American Stud Merinos.
New strains of blood are now becoming n
prime desideratum with the most far-seeing
of our sheep-owners. The Saxony stud-
sheep of the Negretti breed have been em-
ployed so extensively that no new vitality
can be looked'.for from importations from
that source. Some of the Royal Spanish re-
served stock were introduced about ten
years ago in Queensland, and this being the
original source whence the German sheep
spring, there had been some change of cha-
racteristics during the long interval which
had elapsed since the Hooks had been sepa-
rated. The Spanish sheep were heavier
and larger than the Negrettis, their
descendants, and undoubtedly have done
much to improve the type of Merino
on the stations of the Darling Downs. Cli-
matic changes give new life to animals hav-
ing a common origin, and in the United
States there are stud flocks of Merinos
which, while preserving all the best charac-
teristics of the race, constitute for breeding
purposes practically a fresh strain of blood.
Of these American Merinos there have been
several importations of late, and Messrs.
Bruuker and Wolfe bavejustnow, at Garden
Island, several pens of young stud sheep, rams
and ewes, some of which arc Yermount
Merinos, and some—very notable animals—
from the thoroughbred Spanish Merino Hock
of Messrs. E. W. Woolsey and Son, of Sun
Francisco. Many of these are sons of the
famous champion ram Columella, of which
we give a portrait; and, of the ewes, the one
illustrated above is a type. Mr, Thomas
Jones has brought these sheep to Australia,
and with them pedigrees notarially attested
in America. These sheep will be offered for
sale on Saturday, inst.
When in the course of his address to the
prisoner, In the “Happy Jack” case, Judge Wil-
kinson said: “It has not been before me In evidence
that when you took the child over to the North
Shore you Intended anything improper ’’—there
was a general murmur, and a broadside of half-
smothered chuckles. It was generally thought that
he must have been very hard up for something to
say. All felt, however, that they didn’t care how
much he spared “ Happy Jack’s ” feelings so long
as His Honor didn’t spare his back. “18 months!"
What a wall arose from the hallelujah lasses who
crowded the balcony. Down with the curtain I
We learn with regret that the late Mr.
James Carey has been burnt In effigy near Ballarat.
Mr. Carey, we consider, hardlv deserved this. A
man who planned the Phoenix Park murders, and
who endeavoured, through his agents, to “re-
move ” Mr. Forster 19 times, is worthy of a better
fate. Mr. Carey Is stated to have been a sober, In-
dustrious business man. If, now, he had only been
permitted to land at the Capo, to what eminence
mightn't he have attained! There are lots of men
in this city quite as bad as Carey. And they are all
respected. And, curiously enough, any number
of them have privately announced themselves as
future candidates for suburban aldermanic elec-
tions.
The prospectus of a new comic paper is
about, and it Is very funny, Mr. E. Mason, a
charming fellow and a capital engraver, seems to
bo the proprietor, and he Is, it seems, going “ to do
battle with individuals ll nd parties for the benefit
of the many, to whip impostors, to arouse the in-
different, to shame the indolent, to dispel the
arrogance of the haughty and imperious who,
‘ dressed in a little brief authority,' may seek to
impose upon—aye, even to oppress—that public to
whose generosity and credulity they owe their
elevation." This is the drollest paragraph that we
have seen in the prospectus or a comic journal
since, years ago some lunatic brought out an
Illustrated Figaro for one consecutive issue.
Ho was going to play “sulphurous particular,”
hut ho only played it for one week. Wo like
Mason’s prospectus very much, and if he only
makes his paper half as funny as his handbill,
ho will, no doubt, bo able to load up the man who
turns the machine with pork and beans for a con-
siderable time. And then—and wo speak feelingly
from experience—there is the office paste 1
Strong attempt at a revolution in Spain.
... The London Times, in announcing the decease
of Josiah Henson (the alleged original of “ Uncle
Tom ”) states that the disease from which he died
“ had been aggravated by the cruel treatment he
experienced!!! slavery.” Considering that the old
boy was rising ninety-live when he passed in his
checks, we’re not able to see just where the
“aggravation” comes in—England spends an-
nually, per head of her population, 18s. 6d. for war
and 3s. Id. for education. France spends £1 in war
and Is. 5d. on the three Rs. In Prussia the figures
are 10s. lid. and 3s. 5d. respectively ; while Russia
spends three-halfpence in school and in the
barracks. In Switzerland—happy country !—the
military and educational expenditure are about
equal.
Gentlemen, I am proud to be able to claim th
personal friendship of many of you, and the ao.
qualntance of many more. There are probabl
few throughout the whole of this electorate t
whom I am quite unknown. For oonsiderabl
over a quarter of a century I have been en
gaged in easiness, and have taken an active part—
at times a very active part—in public life. I f ee
pride in saying that it was in this electorate, 3
years ago, that I began my commercial career
and I am now, and have been for some time c
resident of the Glebe electorate. There are feV
movements in Sydney or the suburbs calculated (*
improve the position of the people, or aid in th«
general social welfare, in which I have not taker
part. These are personal—some may consider
egotistical—remarks ; but they are, I think, justi-
fiable on the part of anyone introducing himsol
to his fellow-electors |as a claimant for their suf
frages. For you have the right to know all thai
can be known of the man on whom you woulc
confer the high honour and the sacred trust 01
representing you in the first and greatest Assembly
of this colony. And so, whatever my qualifi-
cations, whatever my faults, I at least have lived
for years in the eye of the public, and it is npoc
my conduct as a public man that I rest any elaum
I may have to your support and interest in the
present struggle.
With these few remarks, I will proceed to state
my views upon several of the chief questions ol
public interest, and likely to bo dealt with in the
coming session of parliament. I need now do so
only briefly, because, previous to the day of
election, 1 shall have many opportunities of meet-
ing you and mere fully stating my views on public
affairs.
One of the most important matters the Legisla-
ture will have to deal with is the amendment of
the existing Land Laws. A new Land Act is a
necessity. It will require careful thought and
anxious deliberation. Before the last session
closed it was felt that further information was
needed on many points in connection with this
question, before Parliament could arrive at a
proper decision or could be in a position to frame
a bill which would cure the evils complained of and
give satisfaction to the country. It would be un-
wise, it would be unfair, it would be impolitic for
me or anyone else to attempt to discuss what that
should be. Therefore, all I will say at this moment
upon this great question, is that I fully appreciate
its importance, that I will give it my most careful
attention’ if returned as your member, and that I
will assist the present or any Government is pass-
ing a Land Act which will best conduce to the
settlement of a prosperous yeomanry population
on our present waste lands and also give greater
security to Crown lessees and secure the contribu-
tion of a larger amount to the general revenue.
Next in importance to the Land Bill, and as some
may think of at least equal importance, is a Local
Government Bill. A long experience in Municipal
matters has convinced me greater powers of local
government are desirable, that municipalities
generally have shown their fitness to exorcise such
powers, and that many matters now dealt with by
the Government would be managed more effi-
ciently, econrmically, and beneficially by the local
authorities. I should therefore be a warm sup-
porter of the Local Government Bill.
I am of opinion that the Land Titles Act requires
amendment, so as to facilitate and cheapen the
transfer of real property. The object of Torrens’
Act was to facilitate transactions in Real Property,
but at times unnecessary Impediments are thrown
in the way, and great delay is often caused. The
costs, too, in connection with the transfer of pro-
perty arc much greater than they ought to be; for
instance, every time a house or piece of land worth
a thousand .pounds is bought five pounds goes in
stamp duty, andso on in proportion. This I regard
as excessive, and it has often been a subject of
complaint to me. I would support a rednction, if
not the total abolition of the Stamp Duties Act.
As to the Licensing Act, notwithstanding the
most recent alteration In it, I am of opinion that it
is by no moans a perfect or satisfactory measure.
Some of its clauses press harshly on both publicans
and the public.
I think the time has arrived when the Transit
Commissioners should be abolished ; and if you
honour mo by electing me as your representative,
I would—unless some one more fitted for the task
undertook it—introduce a measure for that pur-
Eoso. The Commissioners are an irresponsible
ody ; and their duties more properly belong to
the local Municipal Council, who, I am sure, would
discharge them more efficiently and satisfactory.
The Question of bridges is most important. It is
very desirable that Johnston’s Bay should be
bridged over, so as to connect the Glebe with Bal-
main ; and this matter should engage my serious
attention, if elected as your representative. A new
bridge is imperatively needed over Darling Har-
bour ; the Pyrmont Bridge being in a disgraceful
and, I fear, a really dangerous state. I would pro-
pose that a high level or suspension bridge (to bo
determined of course by the Government en-
gineers) should be constructed from the high rocks
in Sussex-sti cet, which are nearly on a level with
Kent-streel, to the rocks on the Pyrmont side on
the land lately resumed by Government, suffici-
ently high to allow shipping to pass under without
impeding traffic, and thus do away with the pre-
sent rotten structure. This would greatly x-elxeve
the present enormous traffic in Market and Sussex
streets, and as the bridge would be free prove a
great boon to the Glebe electorate and the public
generally.
The Government having resolved to get rid of
the abattoirs—a determination which should be
supported in every way—it becomes very desirable
that the waters of Johnston’s and Black Wattle
Bays should be thoroughly cleansed, which can
only be accomplished by dredging the whole of
the decayed animal and vegitable matter which at
present exists, and which so seriously affects the
health of many residents of the neighbouring
localities, by accomplishment of which, in a very
short time, the inhabitants will bo enabled to en-
joy the luxury of a salt water bath.
The establishment of a National Bank was
advocated by me years ago, and I think recent
facts have shown its importance. Cheap money is
essential to our prosperty. Of course the price of
money, us of all commodities, fluctuates ; which
when scarce, dear; when plentiful, cheap. Butwhat
have we seen during the past year? Money in
England, and indeed almost all over the world, has
been cheap ; but here in Australia, notwithstand-
ing the soundness and goodness and perfect safety
of our securities, it has been possible to borrow
money at enormous rates of interest only, and
sometimes hardly to borrow it at all. Now, the
effect of having a National Bank would help
greatly to x-emedy this evil, and to xeduce the
colonial rate of interest to the home rate, and to
facilitate borrowing for the pux-poso of legitimate
trade.
Public attention is now being aroused in the
strongest manner to the law of libel and so-called
contempt of Court. A licentious press would bo
one of the greatest evils that could afflict any
community; but a press that is fettered and sub-
servient might bo a greater calamity still. Depend
upon it—take history as your guide—a free press
and a free people go together. We look to the
press for a faithful record of public utterances,
for intelligent and just comment on public men,
lor honest criticism, and for the courageous ex-
posure of abuses. But you will look in vain for
all these things, which as free men wo so greatly
value, if you punish it for the discharge of its
highest and cleax-est duties, or expose it to the risk
of damages, as it is now exposed, under what I
think is generally regarded as an iniquitous libel
law.
l am opposed to all sectarian or class legislation,
and would take as my motto what was formerly
the motto of the Sydney Morning Herald:
Swort to no master, of no sect am I.”
Gentlemen, as I am looking to early opportuni-
ties of meeting you in public, when I shall be able
to treat these and other matters in detail, I will
only say in conclusion that, should you do me the
honour to elect me as your representative in Par-
liament, no effort shall be spared on my part to
efficiently discharge all the duties of theofllce;
ind that I will exert myself to the utmost for the
benefit of this important electorate and the pro-
gress of the whole colony.
WM. PRITCHARD.
North Annandale,
August II, 1883.
AMERICAN SPANISH-MERINO RAM COLUMELLA.
AMERICAN SPANISH-MERINO EWE.


Committal in future if you cough before
Mr George Jo Innea. He considers it to be a Suva-
reign remedy.
A certain copper town up N.W. is a queer
place. We have a printed circular which informs
us that as the senior-constable has resigned, “with
a view to starting some other pursuit,” he is con-
sidered deserving of recognition because of the
“ difficulties he has had to contend with since the
commencement of his duties in ” that town. And,
of course, “any sum you may desire,” and so on.
Well, we haven’t any money to spare, chiefly be-
cause we have never been a constable.
Fortitude "Valley, Queensland, has been in
a state ef holy fury because two drunken men
were found in tho streets there on a Sunday
Why, what is this? If these men had been dis-
covered drunk in a bar-room, it would have been
time to talk; but the fact of ono of them being
discovered near the church, and another on the
way to it, shows without question that they re-
membered what the day was and their duty, and
were on their way to assist at the service. That
they failed was not their fault. But, at any rate,
if they were not there In body, they were in spirit.
superior grade that Constable John Johnson has
been promoted—or shifted—from down South,
and that, at a “send off” accorded him prior
to his departure, the chairman paid equal honour
to Mr. Johnson’s value as an officer and to his con-
duct as “a private gentlemen.” Constable J. re-
plied in feeling terms. That day, he remarked, by
way of originating a novel sentiment, was the
proudest moment In his life. He remembered,
when a little child, and playing about the paternal
residence, though It had been prophesied for him
by the village sexton that he would one day be
famous, never did his wildest dreams conjure up
to him the position of fame and prosperity whion
degree—(cheers, a hiccup, and a glass broken);
but it was his (Johnson’s) experience that though
any man almost could make anyone In Blacktown
drink, not even a constable could keep a single
one of them sober. (Laughter, and a faint voice:
Soda, waitersh.”) Tho proceedings then came to
a (Im) oonglushon.”
The building operations in full swing at
the present time In Sydney represent considerably
ovot a million of money. That there should be
such huge Investments in warehouses of the most
extensive and costly description, is pretty good
evidence of tho solid basis on which our present
The Gundagai Times man accuses the
Sydney Daily Telegraph of cribbing from his
columns. The Gundagai Times is, perhaps, the
only paper in the country that would have noticed
such a plagiarism. And it is all about two brothers
who were out here forty-three years before they
met. As one of them lived most of this time at
Gundagai we are not much astonished at their not
meeting before. If we recollect aright, there was
a case of this kind some time before, and it also
occurred down Gundagai way. But the brothers
in that instance met in gaol.
The Gladstone Observer missed one
week, and in the next issue It said tho proprietor
bad been sick, and the staff was too limited to bring
the paper out without him. Nothing said, of
course, about the free ball and supper, and the
freer fight. No mention made of the snake that
crawled about tho offloe, of the alligator the editor
yelled out he was swallowing, and of the machine-
man wildly drinking out of the kerosene-can In the
dark. '‘In consequence, ’* said they, “of our
natural limited staff we were not equal to the
emergency,”
The intelligence will be received with
breathless interest in social circles of the ultra-
he now enjoyed. He hoped (with emotion) that he
understood his duty. If he did not, it was through
no fault of his. In his youth he had, nearly as
early as he could remember, dragged bis little
sister by the heels to a fictitious lock-up off tho
cow-shed, and when his little brother pretended te
be in a fit, .‘he always made a point or hitting him
in the stomach with a Juvenile truncheon In the
first place, and banging his bead against the wall
in the second. (Cheers.) He (Constable Johnson)
was now about to leave them. Ho trusted if he
carried away nothing else belo aging to them with
him, he would carry away their respect. (Hear,
hear) He had done all be could to decrease drunk-
enness. He thought he had succeeded in some
prosperity rests. Besides all this, it is understood
that an almost fabulous amount of work remains
in the hands of the various architects. To the men
who thus invest their capital in the solid improve-
ment of the city where it was made, much credit
is due. In this sense, the public of this metropolis
owe much to the Hon. John Frazer for his liberalitv
and enterprise. Some of the finest warehouses in
the colonies have been erected in this city to the
order of Mr. Frazer; notably the York-street pro-
mises, the splendid warehouses in Clarence-street,
the groat wool warehouse in Bridge-street, and tha
huge stores ouDarllng Harbour. Any one of these
may be taken as a monument to business enter-
prise and architectural skill.
TOPICS OF THE TIME.
“ Who accuses you of muddying the water?” “I do.” “ Who will hear
the case?” “I will, to be sure.” “Who will determinne the sentence?”
“ Why, I will. Now, how do you plead f"
AtParkes’ sale of “Art treasures,” among
the paintings which merited special mention
was “The Last Resource,” by William
Griffith, a Royal Academy picture, repre-
senting a poor widow hesitating.
It is tantalising to the unlearned to
read on a curious specimen at the
Museum a long and, to them, unpro-
nounceable Latin name. The authorities
have had pity upon the popular visitor,
and intend to write in plain English the
name, family, and genus of the several
exhibits.
Troubles never come singly. Archibald
Forhe* has sailed, and last week our dog
was stolen, and now to crown our
sorrow we shall have to wait a whole
year,—till next August—before we can
see Langtry in Australia. Pardon these
tears.
“The Premier is entitled to sympathy
in his dealings with deputations
Parliament voted £100,000 for recrea-
tion reserves some time ago, and two
little resumptions, the one at Mac-
donaldtown and the other at Camper-
down, will swallow up all but £6000 of
the money. Mr. Stuart says he has 20
applications for recreation grounds,
and that it would take the Bank of
England to meet all these require-
ments.”
Australian oarsmen will now hare the opportunity to exert their muscles for the
purpose of advertising a patent medicine. A Yankee firm, proprietors of the well-
known Ribtiokler Remedy, offers them a prize to be rowed for soon.
The awful catastrophe in Italy.
It is now generally believed that
the Government will make arrange-
ments to tranship the Irish in-
formers, now on board the Nelson,
with a view to their being sent to
some other country.— Exchange.
It is to be hoped that “some other
country ” will make fitting pre-
preparation for their reception.
“ The visit of the Earl and Countess of Rose-
bery is an event which will both interest and
profit Australia. No lees than free born Ameri-
cans or well-fed Englishmen, Australians love
lords, and whether c1 a desire to do homage, or
out of simple curiosity, gather to see them, to
hear their words, and to Imitate their merits or
their follies. Such interest is perfectly natural,
and by no means discreditable.” S.M. Herald.


W. H. PALING,
366 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
mr
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes,
Pianofortes.
By the following renowned English, French, and
Gc
Erard
Pleyel
Collard & Collard
Broadwood Sc Sons
Kirk man
Soufleto
Trost & Co.
Lipp Sc Sohn
erman Makers: —
Auoher
Ronisch
Hundt & Sohn
Bluthner
Steinway
Schiedmayer
Challen Sc Son
Ecke
Elcke
Paling & Co.
A. Bord
Berden & Co.
Herz
Schwechten
Schwander
Forster
And numerous other Manufacturers.
ORGANS by Bell & Co., Palace Organ Company:
Waters & Co., Peloubbrt, and others.
Bell & Go’s. Celebrated Organs, besides other
Awards, gained First and Special Prize over all
others at the recent Sydney Exhibition.
HARMONIUMS bt Alexander Sc Co., etc.
A Splendid Stock of MUSIC always on hand.
PALING & CO.’S PIANOS have taken SEVERAL
PRIZES at the LATE AUSTRALIAN INTER-
NATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
W . H . Ta lino,
Pianoforte, Organ & Harmonium Galleries,
356 GEORGE STREET.
y-MiN
NCWES
AND
raw
MtU5
m
FLEMING’S Cakriaob and Machinery Reporitobt
22 and 23 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
URALOIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALDS, &c., and
Alton internally cures DIARRHCE A, DYSENTERY,
'RAMPS, COLIC, and all other Internal aches
nd pains.
thrice, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole proprietor,
MELBOURNE -A.ND SYDNEY.
PAINT
%mu
V,
7/
Mao
BOAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
•f Stout selected with great care from the
heat of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
eganot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
OATTELL A CO., Sole Agent*.
THE LAST
Gieil Salt if tlii Stw.
The WHITE HOUSE.
Caraeron’s
82 KING STREET.
A GENUINE SALE OF DRAPERY, SILKS,
MANTLES AND MILLINERY.
COME EARLY AND SEE FOR YOURSELVES I
BLANKETS, 4s lid a pair
500 Pairs Whitney BLANKETS, slightly soiled,
9s lid to 14s lid a pair, originally marked from
10a 6d to 35s a pair
1500 Ladles’ Satin and Plush HATS, 5s M, 6s 0d, and
7s Od ; Satin and Velvet HATS, marked 5s 6d,
6s Od, and 7s Od. The prices for these very
superior Hats will be Is Od, Is lid, and 2s lid,
wonderfully cheap
50 very handsome Cashmere COSTUMES, stylish in
design and richly trimmed, to be sold at 21s.
The above are all new colours, but arrived too
late.
500 Coloured Serge COSTUMES, 8s lid
Klchly trimmed Cashmere Robe COSTUMES, 10s
lid, a lovely assortment of pretty shades.
A Sterling Deduction tlirougliont all
Departments.
125 pieces of new T, rtan DRESS MATERIAL, very
silky, 7<Kd
133 pieces of new Tartan French FOULLI, 10-%d
40 pieces of Superior Tartan WOOL BBQE, bmd
BALERNOS HOMESPUNS, 4%d, SERGE,
HHd, newest colours
Black SILK, all pure silk. Is : Black SATIN,
la full width ; Silk Moire VELVET, 3s 6d ;
Black Silk BROCADE, 2s IVAd : Children’s
ULSTERb, Isfld ; Ladles’ ULSTERS, full size,
Ladles’ JACKETS, 3s lid; Newmarket
ULSTERS, 7s lid.
THE LAST GREAT SALE OF THE SEASON.
Black KID GLOVES, four button, Is 9d a pair
Children's KID GLOVES, light colours, la 3d and
Is fld per i-air, with two buttons, and very elastic
Black Lustre Quilted SKIRT S. 2s lid
Black Kilted SKIRTS, only 2s 6d
Black Kilted SATIN SKIRTS, only 9s lid
GREAT BARGAINS. NO SUBTERFUGE.
P.8.—The Public have been too often treated to
MOCK SALKS and SPURIOUS REDUCTIONS.
The above will fully convince the most sceptical.
GENUINE REDUCTIONS at the
WHITE HOUSE,
Cameion’s,
82 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN P. COWLES,
Tea Inspector, Packer, & Shipper,
FOOCHOW, CHINA.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES. BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS.
CEILING CENTRES.
FIGURES, SCENES, &o.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Loaf, Ac,
Haymarket Auction Rooms
AND
FURNITURE BAZAAR,
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
724 GEORGE STREKT.
The cheapest place In Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
&T HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY Instalments taken.
PIT - Open—Mondays and Wednesdays, 9 to 9
Saturdays . . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . . 9 to 6
T
RY
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
THE
VICTORIA
Furniture Polish!
Sold by all Ironmongers.
umisors ra;
THE FAVOURITE HOTEL IN GOULBURN.
DINNER,
ONE SHILLING.
V.
-V
O*
CD
a
a *a
w S
58
fo >
S3
’ w
fC
PITT STREET,
NEXT TATTER8ALL’S.
All Meals One * billing
J. C. GREENFIELD, Proprietor.
%
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO
(Late William Long),
BT" WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
064 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
W. Howard Smith and Sons,
STRUTH’S WHARF and NEW WHARF
(Foot of King Street).
Office# : 43 KING STREET.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS A SATURDAYS.
Steamers Brisbane to Port Mnokay and Townsville
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
♦ To arrive.
W. HOWARD SMITH and SONS,
43 King Street, Sydney.
1«ITH AND HANNELL,
SHIRT TAILORS, HOSIERS, & MERCERS,
208 Ctoorge Street, Sydney.
Established 1844.
OurCELBBRATED WHITE SHIRTS, readymade
30s., 40s., 60s., 60s. the half-dozen.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED I860.
INCORPORATED nr ACT of PARLIAMENT, 1878
Paid-up Capital £800,000
Reserve Fund £137,300
Directors :
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George 8. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gldley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleeton, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. B. Cohen, Esq.
Manager: I Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. 1 Hector Allen.
Branches:
Haymarkot, Pyrmont, Redforn, Oiralamhone,
Goaford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Rankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
London Office: 158 Leaden hail-street
Director: Edward Chapman, Esq.
Agent: O. H. Alexander, Esq.
This bank transacts all nsual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo)
and ether produce shipped to England for sale.
Bad Legs, Constitutional
Diseases, &c.
MEDICATED VAPOUR BATHS.
For those diseases where noxious drugs adminis-
tered through the stomach impair the constitution
of the unhappy recipient, and in many cases fall to
cure,
FACTS ARE STUBBORN THINGS.
H. W. COOPER eradicates the most inveterate
cases of disease, without medicine internally, in
less than a sixth of the rime required for success
by any other treatment.
Re' ibf from Rheumatic Pains.
To Mr. Cooper.—I can scarcely find words to
thank you for the remarkable cure vou have
effected in my case. I have suffered with bad legs
for over 10 years ; I have tried many doctors, and
taken everything advertised to cure, but I grew
worn and sick of trying. My age is over 60, I am
very stout, and, keeping a shop am compelled to
walk about. My friends advised me to g<« to you.
I now wish I had gone at first—I should not have
suffered so long, and it would have been pounds in
my pocket. My legs are both healed up, and I am
quite well. If anyone doubts the genuineness of
your treatment, let them come to me, or any of
my friends who knew how I suffered. I may add
II nproved fast from the first day I visited you.
Mrs. Black,
August 4th, 1883. 817 Bllzaboth-strcet.
To Mr. Cooper.—I wish to make known the bene-
fit of your treatment in my ease. I had bad legs
for two years, and could get no relief anywhere ;
you cured them in less than a month.
R. T. Eastway (Bastway Brothers),
Qeorge-street,
H. W. C. has voluntary testimony that would fill
a newspaper, and he ha# not been in the colony
twelve months.
340 CROWN STREET, opposite Reservoir.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has Just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Verth,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &o.,
Tricycles, Trench and German
Model Bolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Pigures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INBPHCTION INVlTiiil.
Sola.© Bazaar
352 George Street.
315 George Street.
A few of our undertakings MOST SUCCESS
FULLY carried out, among which will be found
MOgT i) pi CULT, and MOST
the LARGEST, MUST uirnuuux, ana mym
RESPONSIBLE events that have taken place since
the opening of this establishment.
His Worship the MAYOR’S PICNIC, for 450, at
Clontarf.
Ills Worship the MAYOR’S BALL, for 1800, Exhi-
bition Building, at which his J 9*j n
Harris, entertained their R.H.’s AL-
BERT and GEORGE, EARL CLAN WILLIAM,
and the Officers of the Detached Squadron.
MASONIC BALL. English Constitution, for 1252,
Exhibition Building.
MASONIC BALL, N.8.W. Constitution, at Town
Hall, Sydney.
Visit of their R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT and
GEORGE to Llthgow Valley Mines and Zigzag.
Dinner 4 la Iluxxe, for 80, in Government Palace
Dining Car while travelling.
Government Refreshment to 15,000 8CHOOLCHIL-
DREN —re Queen’s Statue Demonstration—undei
VERY SHORT NOTICE, only receiving the
order at 2.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot at 12.30
p.ra. the following day.
Visit of THEIR R.H.’s PRINCES ALBERT ana
GEORGE to Captain Cook’s Landing, south side
of Botany Bay. Picnic luncheon and refresh-
ment, for 100, under VERY SHORT NOTICE, re-
coiving order at 9.30 p.m., to be ready on the spot
at 1 p.m. following day.
The LADY MAYORESS’ RECEPTIONS, Town
Hall.
The UNION CLUB BACHELOR’S BALL, at E*r>»-
bition Building, for 500.
The Barristers’ Dinner to JUDGE WINDEYEK.
The Barristers' Dinner to JUDGE INNES.
Dinner A la Ru**e at St. Paul’s College, for 150 Mem
bersof the CBURCH OF ENG LANb SYNOD.
Dinner 1 Ui Ruma to the INTERCOLONIAL R1 PIP
TEAMS, Town Hall.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at HAWK KM
BURY RACES, in Grand Stand.
The Luncheon and Refreshment Bars at RANG
WICK RACES, In Grand Stand.
The CONSULAR DINNER, in our new BanquM
Room.
ARMIDALE RAILWAY Demonstrations. Ban
quet for 400; MAYOR’S BALL, 800. same evening
and CITIZEN’S BALL, 500, the following even-
ing.
ALBURY-WODONGA RAILWAY DEMONSTRA-
TION —Grand Government Banquet for 1016
at Albury. Grand Ball, *00. following night.
Children’s feast, 1184. the following afternoon
and evening. Also, Breakfasts, Dinners, Teas,
and Suppers, in Government Dining Car, to
His Excellency Loan Anousrus Lorres, the
Ministry, and Ms.P.. while travelling to and
from Banquet, &c., &o.
Numerous Banquet* and Entertainments by HiS
WORSHIP THE MAYOR at Town Hall, &o.
Numerous Dinners 3 la Ru**e in the N.8.»
GOVERNMENT PALACE DINING CAR, whl*
travelling by rail, on account of the GOVERN
MENT.
L’ogether with a numerous lot of Private Dinner*.
Feasts, Weddings, Garden Parties, Ralls. Tei
Meetings land Sales, Suppers, Picnics, Pishlnt
Excursions, &o.
CADET EXAMINATION, SURVEY OFFICE.
[T is hereby notified that an Examination of
Candidates for Employment ns Cadets in the
iepartment of the Surveyor-General will be held
arly In November next. The exact data, when
xod, will ha duly notified. Candidates must have
ttalned the age of 18 years, or they will not be
llglble for examination.
Intending competitors can obtain further m-
•mnation upon applying by letter to the Surveyor-
enerai, or per8<»ially te the Secretary an 1
ashler. . _
(Signed) P. F. ADAMS,
Surveyor-General.
Surveyor-General’s Office,
Sydney, 22nd June, 1888.
Department of Public Instruction.
Mydney, 2nd August, 1883.
TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS.
ENDERS are Invited for additions to the Pub-
lic School Buildings at Burwood.
■Ians and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
Tender obtained, at the office of the Department
Public Instruction, Sydney.
Ponders, endorsed “ Tender for Additions, Bur-
ned Public School,” must bo lodged with the
ider Secretary, Department of Public Instrud-
n, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Wednesda ,
3 20th August, 1883.
Pho Minister does not bind himself to accept the
vest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 2nd August, 1883.
TENDERS FOR TEMPORARY BUILDING.
are invited for the erection of a
Temporary Wooden Building for Public
School purposes at Gunnenbene near Carroll.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained, at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney, and at the
Gnnnonbone Public School on application to the
Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Temporary
Wooden Building, Gunnenbene Public School,’’
must bo lodged with the Acting Under Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a m., on Wednesday, the 29th August, 188A'
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG Is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG Is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the Intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at onoe, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superlor quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Emil Paterson,
ARCHITECT AND CIVIL ENGINEER,
No. i PITT STREET.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall he glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .]
RACING.
Lismore J.C August 16,17.
Hawkesbury H.C August *-3,
Cootamundra ••■•••• August .30.
A. Spring September 1, 4, 6, 8.
Bathurst J.C September 13,14.
Albert Gold Fields J.C September 19, 30.
Northern J.C September 19. 21. ;
Ballarat T. and H.C September 21, 33.
Dubbo J.C September 31. 33.
Goulburn T.C September 26 38.
Narrabri J C i’
Sydney Turf Club October 6.
victoria Amateur T.C October Li, £).
Wollongong T.C - ■ ■ ■.. Octobe:r 17,18.
Victoria H.C. Spring November J, 6.8, 10.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 6 7. 8.
Parramatta J.C November8.
Clarence River J.C. (Amateur) November 9.
Murrumbidgee T.C November 21, |3.
Narandem J.C November 29. 30
Liverpool J. C December 22.
Sydney T.C ■ • • .January 36.
Tasmanian K.C. (Summer* February 13, 14.15
AQUATICS
Trickett v. Beach • • • August 18.
M.R.C. Annual Regatta September 39,
Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club (Formal
Opening Season* September.
New South Wale* Association Kegatta . October 6.
Double Bay Regatta October—.
Sydney Amateur Canvas Dingy Club 1st Class
J Race October 13.
Balmain Regatta November 9.
Krug Champagne Cup November —.
COURSING
Victoria Club August 22.
Ballarat Club August 38.
Australian Club August 28.
ATHLETICS.
Goulburn A.P. and H. Society’s Sports .August 16.
T. Hvde v. E. Penno, 100yds., Hombush Aug. 18.
B. M’Ternan v. M. Grady, 100yds., Micalago, Aug. 30.
T. Malone v. J. Aplitt, 150yds.. Botany Sept. 5.
B Murphy v. W. Franks, mile walk...September 6.
Wallsend Athletic Club Meeting November 9.
FOOTBALL.
Sydney v. Brisbane Clubs, at Brisbane
August 15,16,18, 33.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Calm water—Beach. Joggle—Trickett.
The Q. Turf Club, for the first time in six
years, shows a profit of £339 9s. lOd. for the half-
year, owing to the totalisator bringing them In
£493 lls. 6d.
During the past week two children were
“hiked,” and a parcel delivery van gained a
glorious victory over an offensive triKe.
Wheel and woe.
It is not true that Ashton broke his thigh
when Speculator came to grief at the Sale races.
Though much shaken, Ashton was able to walk
about after the accident.
Tom Corrigan, when giving evidence in re
the death of M’Innes, was asked: “Did you sec
anything that would cause the mare to tall t
“Nothing,” replied Tom, “but the stone wall, sir.
At the meeting on 9th August, to form a
Bicycle Union, it was decided to adopt the rules of
the English B.U. The following Clubs were repre-
sented Sydney, Suburban, Wanderers. Balmain,
Redfern, Burwood, and Goulburn Bicycle Clubs.
At the Yale College Sports, New Haven,
U.S., A. S. Brooks ran the quarter-mile in 50 3-5 sec.,
lowering the record, which was SOH s®c.; and
L. R. Hamilton won the mile bicycle in 6 min.
49 1-5 sec., lowering the intercollegiate record
14-5 sec.
“ ThomasClifford, beaten at sculling on the
Parramatta River, has settled down to plough and
sow at Wollongong”—
You're settled down to sow and plough
So, Tom, we may respect you now.
We couldn’t (though you may feel sure)
Have done so while you touched an oar.
The six days’ go as-you-please pedestrian
contest at Kernan’s Summer Garden, Baltimore,
Md., closed on June 3, John Hughes being an easy
winner, with an announced score of 553 miles.
George Hazael, the only pedestrian who has
covered 600 miles in six days, has settled down in
New York.
At the Queen’s sale of Hampton Court
yearlings, the prevailing complaint against them
was their half-starved appearance, which showed
that short commons was the order of the day in
the feeding. An English paper says that the nig-
gardly manner in which the luncheon tickets were
doled out at the sale was almost confirmatory of
the failing.
At Melbourne, a fox-terrier rat-killing
sweepstake eventuated on 6th August, with the
following results :-T. Daly’s Topsy. 131b., 6 rate,
364 sec., 1: J. Warnc’s Jack, 141b., 7 rats, 384 sec., 2;
J. Black’s Violet. 161b., 8 rats, 41 sec.; Ellis’ Spot,
141b, 7 rats, 44 sec.; Leith’s Bland Holt, 301b., 10
rata, 46 sec.; G. Lynch’s Snow, 181b., 9 rats, 57 see.
From performances in England, it would
seem that such Improvemente have been made In
the tricycle that it is little, slower than the
more dangerous bicycle, particularly in a full day s
journey. Lowndes recently covered 104 miles on a
hilly road, In 31 min. 40 sec., and Gossett Is credited
with a run of over 300 miles in 34 hours.
L. E. Myers, starting from scratch, won
the 600-yards toot race at the Manhattan handicap
sports. Time, 1m. 15 3-5s. The best English pro-
fessional time is 1m. 13s, by James Nuttall, and the
fastest amateur record in England is 1m 14 3-5s, by
F, T. Elborough. This was Myers’ first race of the
eason. He has covered the distance ip bn 112-5s.
A Yankee paper is responsible for the
following : —“ George Pearn, the long distance
swimmer, has concluded to permanently reside in
Australia, having married a female member of the
Salvation Army. T >e pair intend spending the rest
of their lives in reforming aborigines and
squatters.” We notice they put the aborigines be-
fore tho squatters.
Wm. Snook, of the Moseley Harriers, did a
grand performance in the open mile race at the
Civil Service Sports, held at London, Jnno 3.
He started from scratch, and cutting down the
field easily won by five yards in the fast time of
4m. 30s. Had he not kept looking around during
the final hundred yards, it was thought that he
would have beaten the record made by George In
this race last year.
Good riming at the Geelong (Vie.) Steeple-
chase meeting on 9th August. Basilisk won the
Handicap Hurdle Race. King Charles ditto the
Railway Stakes. The Handicap Steeplechase fell
an easy victory to Blackthorn. The Banker, Gold-
top, and Skyscraper came to grief. The Winter
Handican was secured by The Joker; and Trotuell
easily won the Handicap.
At u recent foot-raoe at Norman ton, Q.,for
a £35 purse, Joe Julian, the well-known Queens-
land sprinter, started incog, against a lot of out-
siders and came In nearly last. Several squatters
got wind of who Julian really was, and backed him
to the tune of some £200, but it was a case of
“double cross.” Julian started in another race
during the day and won as he liked, but there was
no squatters’ money on him this race.
The N.S.NY. Goursing meeting terminated
on Thursday last. The Hobartville Stakes fell to
G. Whittington’s Legerdemain, Legerkeeper—
—Maggie, who beat W. Cooper’s Coralie. Gambler
—Little Bose, and won the stake. And E. Bladen’s
Bounty, Lelex—Daisy, beat Hall and Kite’s Miss
Lizzie,* Misterton—Lady Lizzie, and won tho Conso-
lation Stake.
Mr. James Wilson, of St. Albans’ fame, re-
cently cheated the grim destroyer, who certainly
had a pretty good mortgage on the wel -known
trainer. Wilson was cutting a piece of light timber
with a circular saw, when the wood parted and he
fell forward on to the teeth of tho saw, which cut
through a strong hat he was wearing, and gave
him a nasty cut on top of the head. A quarter of
an inch deeper, and James must have gone to the
happy training grounds.
“Pringle,” who advertises that “himself
and party” are prepared to put down £3000 for
Hanlan to visit the colony, is, we take It. as merry as
he is mysterious. “Pringle," so far, however, stands
out in a very brilliant light; but subsequently,
when he states that neither Trickett nor Layoook
Is to row Hanlan, but that he has a mysterious
champion in the back ground, we cannot hut con-
sider that “ Pringle ” gleams with less refulgence
than before. Who oan be this mystery ? Charley
Bannerman, or “Pringle” himself?
Tattersails’ Club had a cold, cheerless day
for their August meeting on Saturday last. The
ball opened with the Hurdle Race, which resulted
in a win for War Eagle bysome three lengths from
Dundreary, Satellite and Young Banana a dead
heat. The hearts of the “coal city ” men were
made glad by Claudius’ win of the Tramway
Handicap—Salonara, half a length away, second ;
and The Slave third. Emulation beat Rosinante
by half a length for the Selling Race, Crowned
Head third. Tattersall's Two-Year Old Stakes fell
to King’s Own, who previous to the start, threw
M’Grado and bolted full a mile and a half, after
which knocking about he defeated Paraplule by
three-quarters of a length, Charming third ; and
the Lo ftus Handicap brought the day’s sport to a
termination with a win for the little thought of
Belvidere, three-quarters of a length from Ascot
and Norman, who ran a dead heat
At the Grand Military Tournament held
at Islington, Eng., there were only two entries for
the contest Lance v. Lance—the Earl of Harrington
and Captain Gough Todd. In the first joust the
captain tilted the opposing horse and rider clean
over, but Lord Harrington quickly recovered him-
self and had all the best of It for the remainder of
the tourney, which ended by the Earl hurling Capt.
Todd from his horse. Lord Harrington also won
the Singlestick and Sword and Lance contests.
On dtt Maud 8., the American trotter, was
lately fed on a bouquet of rosea, by Mdlle. Rhea,
the actresa, on the Hartford course. It is a pretty
conceit, this feeding of racers with bouquets from
the corsages of admiring-or admired ladies; but
there la much more sentiment In It than sense.
Should the practice become at all common, the
florist who, unknown to the fair one ordering the
bouquet, can secrete a strong vegetable “dose”
among the Inviting roses, will be a mightier man on
the turf than any occupant of the saddle or the
Judge’s stand.
At Cincinnati, U.S., the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, in March last,
caused the arrest of eleven members of the Cin-
cinnati Independent Gun Club for shooting
domestic pigeons for sport. By agreement one
case was tried as a test. The case came to trial be-
fore Judge Van Martel, end the jury disagreed.
Another jury gave a verdict of acquittal. The de-
fence argued that the shooting was for healthful
recreation, acquiring skill in firearms, and killing
birds for food, all of which are lawful, and that
the birds were the property of the shooter, and he
had a right to kill them In that manner, if not
wantonly cruel about it.
The Sydney Bicycle Club certainly acted
in a shabby manner towards Lee in connection
with the Mile Amateur Championship at their
recent meeting. The race was placed on the card
last but one, and as Lee, last year's winner, natu-
rally saved himself for the event, he was debarred
from starting in the handicaps. There were thir-
teen entries for the race, two (Melbourne) were
disqualified, and six—by the way all members of
the committee—refused to start; and as it was
stipulated six starters or no race, the event fell
through. This was pretty rough on Lee, more
especially as when one was required to make up
the Ten-mile Race a member started with his coat
on, and only went as far as the pavilion gate. Had
Lee won the event on Saturday week hist, which,
bar accidents, was a moral for him, he would, by
his two wins, have secured the Special Club Bicycle
Trophy. Moon !
Sport extraordinary. The immense suc-
cess which has hitherto attended pedestrian tour-
naments, and the intense inter st taken in them
by an enthusiastic public, has induced Messrs. Tom-
faklr. Have-em, and Co. to arrange for a grand
walking match between Mr. Pipeshanks, Cham-
pion or Australia, and Mr, Bralhgan, Champion
of the whole World. The walk will be for 300
years, aqd tbe lyack will be round the coast line pf
the whole Australian continent. Owing to the
enormous outlay necessary to put the course in
walking order, and keep the competitors in roast
quail. Louis Roedercr, and the other necessaries of
life, family tickets will not be transferable beyond
the third generation. Special prayers for fine
weather will bo offered up every half-hour, and In
tho event of ihe Day or Judgment taking place
before the first century, all ticket-holders will
have their in jney returned, and the whole of the
gate proceeds will bo handed over to the Judges’
Pension Fund, or some other charitable object.
Persons dying, or otherwise misconducting them-
selves on the ground, will be at once removed and
handed over to the medical students of tho Alfred
Hospital. The public are respectfully Invite4 to
call at once and see the champion competitors
walking about with their good clothes on.
The committee of the Sydney Amateur
Sailing Club are getting well out or their slough
by the sale of their White Elephant to the Govern-
ment for £646, albeit it cost them £1100, for which
seven saiad members went security. Had tho
buildings been designed after the style of D;ck
HelUng's Wooiloomooloo shed, and erected where
boats could be moored off, hauled up and looked
after, there would have been something In It, but
for a shed such as that at the Quay, put up on the
understanding that no posts or moorings should he
laid down, there could be nothing but failure
ahead, as it was rather much to expect boat-
owners to sail round, perhaps In a “ black ” north-
easter, ora “stinking” southerly, to pick up and
set down fresh water crews at the White Elephant,
in place of shipping their men at the boat's moor-
ings. The security business reminds us of a little
incident in the history of the Mercantile Rowing
Club, a member of which, after first obtaining
promises of pecuniary assistance, hired a piano,
which was placed In the long room, for the use or
the members. The instrument remained there for
some eighteen months, and the verdant one duly
paid the rent, for which he was ultimately "let
fa,” with the exception of some three shillings and
sixpence, which ho managed to collect a ter great
exertion.
An exhibition, showing how low humanity
can sink at times, recently came off at Philadelphia,
U.S. “Danny” Hester, whose time is spent prin-
cipally In resorts for so-called sporting characters,
pitted himself to kill two hundred rate In a rat
pit, without any other weapons than those pro-
vided by nature, and that in the space of forty
minutes. Tho brutal exhibition came off in an
improvised pit in an unused warehouse, twenty
tallow candles stuck in porter bottles being tho
only light afforded the spectators. Hester, attired
in a pair of swimming tights, jumped into tho pit,
and the rodents, which were carried in gunny bags,
were shot In after him. The man seized one In
each hand, and nipped them with his teeth, which
operation he performed some half-dozen times,
when the rate made a general rush upon him,
swarmed over his back, fastened their teeth In his
body, and one big fellow oven made fast to his ear.
This was too much for Hester, who Jumped madly
Into the air In an attempt to rid himself of tho
vermin, and, on coming down hoavlly on tho floor,
an old hatchway on which tho pit was formed gave
way, and precipitated him into tho cellar beneath,
from which he was picked up with a fractured rib
and a broken wrist, not to speak of several dozen
severe rat bites.
None but those who remember the good
old days of public executions In England ana the
colonies can imagine In the mind’s eye the scene
oi. a “hanging morning.” It might blow great
guns and rain cate and dogs, but there. In front of
the gallows, would be the morbid crowd of men,
women, and children, breathless to see a miserable
wretch stagger up the ladder to be strangled. But
at length a cruel law stopt in, which enacted that
executions should take place quietly within the
prison walls. It fell as a death-blow upon the
attendants of these scenes, and, for a long time
after the new law came In f rce, an execution only
brought In a morning of gloom. Nor was there
any kindred exhibition to make amends. Match-
ing men to eat porridge against each other
was unsuccessful, and the morbid crowd
were at a loss until they dropped upon the six-
days-walk business. Two of these exhibitions
came to a conclusion on Saturday night, one at
Sydney and the other at Melbourne. The former
finished at twenty minutes to eleven, when the
weary and wretched creatures dragged their woru-
out limbs and haggard faces to the end of their
torture, amid the loud acclamations of their ad-
mirers. Williams, an old, bald-headed man,
covered the greatest distance, 428 3-3 miles; Camp-
bell 435, Taylor 419, Le Pettit 418, M’Dermott 354,
and Ewins 304. At Melbourne, O’Leary left the
track, after covering 457 miles 4 laps, and protested
that the scoring had been foul. Edwards kept up
the agony, and at the conclusion of the match, the
scoring board showed he had walked 475 miles, 4
laps.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
liy the Glenmorgau, which left Melbourne
on Wednesday week, 337 horses were shipped for
India, 247 belonging to Messrs. T. Learmonth and
H. Madden, and 38 to Mr. D. Warner, the former’s
being for Madras, and the latter’s for Calcutta
II was proposed by a member of the 8. A. Parlia-
ment that any paper publishing the odds taken
should be amenable to the law — At Bourke, G.
Montgomery has backed himself to run two miles
In 11 minutes about 3rd September Star, the
entire who viciously attacked W. Marsh at Goola-
gong, is brother to Priam, who has killed his man.
It Is evidently in the family Grimwood won the
billiard tournament at the Victoria Club. Coleman
runner up Santa Claus is stated to be sound
again. Coomete will never race again. Mr. Power
expects to get him well enouurh to use as a hack...
The Bendigo Jockey Club suffered a loss on the
meetings held last season — T. Henty has named
his colt by King the Bing from Norma “Storno-
way.'’ Last year, when the entries closed for
the Victorian Trotting Club Sires’ Produce Stakes,
ouly Von Molke, Contractor, and Walter Scott
were nominated. By consent of their owners, the
stake has been re-opened, and Vermont Junior,
Boccacio and Lon Rose have been added, so that the
progeny of these sires will be eligible for the stake.
which is already worth £150 At the annual
meeting of the Victorian Racing Club, the chair-
man stated the conmlttee were unanimous in their
wish to obtain an act to legalise the totalisator.
Sir William Clarke, Messrs. C. B. Fisher, Septimus
Miller, A. W. Robertson, Q. Watson, w. Pearson,
and 8. Gardiner were elected as a'committee....
The Newtown footballers defeated Oaklands School
at Mittagong on the 8th instant—What about the
Doiwelly aud Sullivan sculling trophies,..,Wild
turkeys are unusually plentiful just now on some
of the runs below Condobolln. Only a few days
ago a gentleman counted 350 within an hour, 70 of
which were in one lot. About Eugowra wild
pigeons are in great numbers, as many as 400 having
been counted from one standpoint—Several
backers of horses have been posted as defaulters at
Rockhampton H. Miller defeated T. Gateerell
In 150 yards race at Cunnamulla On Satur-
day last the Balmain and University footballms
played a draw on Moore Park. At Burwood
the Redferus defeated the local team by two
points to nil, and at Newcastle the Wollaroos were
defeated — Casimir, the Mudgeo ped., has been on
a foot-racing tour. He scored fifteen consecutive
wins—George Smith defeated A. M’Grory in a
300 yards’ spin at Ipswich (Q.) for a tenner a side.
+ ♦ *
While scoring for a race at Auburn, N. Y. t
June 8, the gelding driven by Eugene Root, of
Syracuse, became unmanageable, and his sulky
was broken by a collision. The horse dashed from
the track through the grounds, dragging the driver
by thw feet. Root's head was crushed by the
horse’s hoofs Mr. Long, at the sale of the
Yardley yearlings, England, gave 1000 guineas for
a bay colt by Sterling out of Seagull, own brother
to Beaudesert. ...A ladies' cricket match was
played at Blckllng Green (Eng.), between two sides
ot s.-ivea each. A Miss Osborne made 101 runs
At Twickenham ( Eng.), George Ulyettand Sherwin,
playing with Elseuham against Orleans, put
216 runs together before they were parted.. ..
At Lord’s (Bug.), on June 18, Cambridge Uni-
versity defeated M.C.C. and ground by 81 runs. ..
Tho Madge, the little Hying 10-tonnor which wal-
loped tho Americans last year, still lies in New Fork
waters wanting an owner. The American papers
(remarks Bell’s Life), now that they have not
been able to beat her afloat, pick holes in her when
ashore. She is so frail, says one scribe, that the
decks sink beneath your feet like basket-work.
That young man should not venture on board a
yacht at any time, as it he did not fall overboard
ho might fall through and get drowned A dog-
fight took place at Hay view, near Buffalo, N. V.,
recently, between a white bulldog named Billy,
314 11*, and a yellow bull answering to the name of
Jumbo, 334 t>. The dogs came together with u rush
on the call of time. Billy fastened his teeth in
Jumbo's cheek, and for 43 minutes tho fighting was
desperate. After tho dogs broke and wore sponged
off it was soon that Jumbo s head, chest, and legs
were terribly lacerated, while Billy did not show
many signs of punishment. When time was again
called, Jumbo could not be made to scratch, and
Billy was declared the winner amid the wildest
cheering by his bankers. Stakes, $100 a side
One of the features ot English bicycling is the
magnificence of the prizes offered for competition.
America is evldem ly following suit, as a Yankee
manufacturing company has offered a 300-guinea
cup for an amateur race.... Lord William Ueresford
has been holding his own on tho Indian turf, but
this does not appear good enough for him, as ho
has given 2000 gs. for Reputation, and 700 gs. for
Little Charlie, two English horses In England
1150 guineas was given for a oolt by Springfield-
Furlosa, whose elder brother was sola the day
before for sixteen guineas.. The new English
outtor Marjorie is 75.35 long. 14.50 beam, and 67.66
tonnage —Not a few English enthusiasts have
prophesied that lacrosse is the game of the future..
The Orange Cup, of all trophies, was competed lor
by two Irish horses, namely, Barcaldine, its win-
ner, and Faugh-a-Ballagh. Barcaldine Is now
called the “Irish L vincible.” The English 30
miles professional bicycle championship was run on
9th June, and resulted in a win for F. Wood, in 1 h,
6 min. and 48 1 5 sec. Lees led till 100 yards from
home, when Wood drew level, and after a great
struggle, won by a bare yard.... Mr J. PealT, tho
English billlardlst, In an ordinary game with a
friend, compiled a marvellous break of 1065, con-
sisting of a winner from baulk and .354 spots...
Some remarkable scoring took place at Cambridge
University, recently. K.T.L.’s (all Trinity men)
playing against Magdalene College, kept tho repre-
sentatives of tho latter In the field all the day
whilst they compiled tho large total of 538 runs fur
seven wickets. The late Eton captain, Mr. H. W.
Bainbridge, played a brilliant innings for 111, the
Hon. D. A. Tollemache batted freel, for 133, T. K
Tapllng an excellent 130, L. Sanderson made 41.
L. M. Richards 36, whilst W. M. Duncan carried out
his bat for 30.... W. M. Woodside, Mile. Armalndo,
and W. J. Morgan, bicyclists, engaged in a one-
hundred-and-twenty-mllos’ race, forty miles each
night, closing Juno 8, at tho Armory in Janesvill
(U.8.) Mile. Armalndo won by half-a-dozcn laps
from Morgan, Woodside a close third.
A Forbes squatter had a dispute with his
Chinese gardener os to the amount ef wages duo
to the latter. A compromise was effected, it being-
part of tho treaty that the gardener should plant
a certain number of trees which had just arrived
at the station. John agreed, but before ho planted
them he boiled the roots.
His Honor, Judge Wilkinson, is an excellent
man, but he isn’t getting younger. In bissumming
up In Riley’s first trial it was a queer spectacle to
see him endeavour to decipher hie notes, but it was
droller still to hear him afterwards treat the Jury
to a long dissertation on the crimes and enormities
of Jonathan Wild, and to finally dismiss them in
a very perplexed condition to their deliberations.
At the second trial, His Honor could no more keep
Jonathan Wild out of his summing up than Mr.
Dick could the head of Charles tho Second out of
his memorial. The Judge had the thief-taker
better furbished up this Mine, and the way he was
danced before the “ good men and true” must have
filled them, like Hamlet’s conduct did Gertrude,
with “astonishment and admiration.” It is only a
finely-balanced legal mind that could, perhaps,
discern any distinct analogy between the eases of
Jonathan Wild and Riley, and that is, doubtless
the reason we considered some of the Jonathan
lecture a little diffuse. Wo must, however, out of
justice to His Honor, state that among the un-
soapea, who had Wild, Jack Sheppard, Blueskin «u,d
Edgworth Bess, at their fingers’ ends, his reuiai ks
found marked favour ; and doubtless they would
have gone far, had tho defendant been adjudged
guilty, to have soothed his raiud in the seclusion of
his lonely cell. We trust, so far as we are con-
cerned, we shall Boon have another opportunity of
hearing Judge Wilkinson sum up. If in a esse of
bigamy he might tell us about-say-Blue Beard,
or In a case of stlckiug-up auout Valentino mid
Orson. And then, in due course, His Honor might
re-dellver his charges in the form of popular lec-
tures to the people, and illustrate them by means
of a publio-house sheet and an oxy-hydrugcu
lantern.
Purify the blood, cleanse the stomach, and
aweotoo the breath with Hop Bitters, iwua.
THE RABBIT NUISANCE. A SUGGESTION.
In N.Z. the rabbit nuisance baa been conquered by the introduction of the mongoose. But after having eaten all the rabbits, the mongooses yearned
for other worlds to conquer, and instituted a mongoose nuisance. The New Zealanders are now on the look-out for some creature which will exterminate
the mongoose. We respectfully suggest alligators; and should the alligators prove a nuisance in their turn, nothing would be easier than te exterminate ;
them. Turn a few bush missionaries loose amongthem. The reverend gentlemen would scoop them in as part of the “collection.” Then, should the bush 1
missionaries become a nuisance, why then . Well, frankly, this gives us away. But hang it, nobody would be any worse off. They are a nuisance as it is.S


T71URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring street*, Sydney.
HALL FURNITURE. HATSTANDS, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T" IBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
I i TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LQUNGE CHAIRS. Bradley, New-
ton, and Lamb, Firraiture Importers, Spring and
O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
TVTOVKLTIES In Boudoir and BOW-WINDOW
Xx SUITES. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-etreet.
AFTERNOON TEA TABLES, elegant and Inex-
pensive. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
fllLLIARD TABLES, full sine, with appurten-
Xj an cos ; also smaller Convertible Tables, 7 and
6 feet—may be used as dining tables. Now on view.
iv be used
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb, Importers, Spring
O’Coi “ ' ' “ '
and 1
nnell streets, Sydney.
XS SbsTEADS, ail sizes, at lowest prices. BRAD-
13 LET, NEWTON, and LAMB, Importers,
tPConnell-street.
BEDROOM SUITER complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
*171IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
iji Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, ohest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY,
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, framSSs; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10sfid: Tables, from7s fid: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20e: Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 26s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 80s; Kitchen Tables from
Foldijj/j^Clothes Horses, from 7s fid. BRAD-
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s fid. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
85s.
BRADLEY,:
NEWTON,
and LAMB,
SYDNEY.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelved, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
TjlUfiNltURE. —The Largest Stock in the
~ Colony. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
ConneU-elrcct.
(Fc<
RAWING-ROOM CABINETS—Early English,
streets.
TkINING-ROOM FURNITURE. - Magnificent
Suites In Walnut, Oak, and Mahogany. Side-
boards, Dinner Waggons, &c., to match. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, Furniture Ware-
housemen, Spring and O’Connell streets.
D
Just
•endale designs.
resigns,
and LAMB,
and O’Connell
T71RAMBWORK for DRAWING and DINING
JC ROOM FURNITURE, Handsome and Massive,
In Oak, Walnut and Mahogany. The VERY BEST
REAL MOROCCO SKINS, and Materials for up-
holstery. Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEW-
TON, and LAMB.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
uuiflu. —All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
G
ARDEN SEATS and Verandah Chairs —Brad-
ley, Newton, and Lamb, O’Connell-street.
T3BNTW00D FURNITURE.-A very complete
JL> Assortment Just opened; many quite new,
designs.
/Occasional chairs in very great
Variety, Chairs, Stools, Desks, &c., Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb, O'OonneU-street.
OFFICE FURNITURE, WHITING TABLES,
Chair*. Stools, Desks, &o., Bradley, Newton,
and Lamb, (Voonuoll-stree’t,
*
CB CHESTS, all sizes, very superior make. Ex-
amine before purchasing. BRADLEY, NEW-
N, and LAMB, Spring ana O’Connell-streets.
"RON SAFES, various sizes. BRADLEY, NEW-
. TON, and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S'
TEINWAY NEW YORK PIANOS, the FINEST
In the world. A SHIPMENT just landed.
GUINEA PIANO, WARRANTED sound
and durable. In solid walnut case; specially
adapted for beginners or schools.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
23
O/OGUINEA PIANO, brilliant toned, full com-
OU pass, all the latest improvements. In hand-
some walnut case; WARRANTED SOUND and
DURABLE ; BEST VALUE In the trade.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
IPP’S CELEBRATED PIANOS,
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB
have received
another LARGE SHIPMENT
of
R. LIPP and SONS’ celebrated PIANOFORTES
direct from the Makers, comprising TALL
GRANDS, LITTLE UPRIGHT GRANDS, SA-
LOON GRANDS, VERY HANDSOME and of the
HIGHEST CLASS FINISH,
In
WALNUT and BLACK GOLD.
' WB HAVE NOW THE LARGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA OF
LIPP’S PIANOS
TO SELECT FROM,
WE INVITE INSPECTION.
FOB PRIVATE SALE AT EXTREMELY LOW
PRICES.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
Pianoforte Importers,
O’Connell gad Spring street!.
SOCIAL.
It is a marked feature of private as-
semblies in Sydney that their popularity generally
spoils their enjoyment ; that is, they are too
crowded. No sooner do they become what ladies
call “ nice,” than they are flooded by an army of
visitors. Very often many of the visitors don t
dance, but it’s the correct thin# to bo there, and
so they insist on coming. Consequently, danc ng
becomes a perpetual succession of aggravating
bumps. They are Inevitable, for no skill can
avoia the rush of some of the tornado terrors that
And their way into dancing society. In any other
sphere of useful exertion, these are probably most
estimable people, not entirely destitute of sense or
deaf to sarcasm ; but you can never get them to
understand that in a ballroom, even their most
vigorous efforts must ever be met by a continual
and persistent lack of appreciation. You could
persuade them of anything else under the sun, but
you can never convince them they are clumsy.
They receive your hints ivith a happy and palpable
unconsciousness of any deflency on their own part;
they stamp on your toes, and say “hullo,* with
suon imperturbable g.od humour, and hearty
enjoyment of the joke, that you fall back in hope-
lessness from the attempt to show them there s
anything amiss. In a square dance, the way they 11
get themselves mixed up iu the direst confusion,
and then cheerfully look into your face and say
“ you’re all wrong.” is only a wonderful evidence
of the denseness of the human Intellect. It Is not
wise to try and correct, or instruct these erring
creatures of impulse ; they are so sublimely con-
tented with themselves, and satisfied with their
own style, that you will never succeed. To offer
resistance is worse. Often and often we have
watched a pair prancing up behind us m an ele-
S ban tine polka, nearer and nearer till we felt the
oor shako and saw the gleam of their heels in the
air, as they finally hurled themselves—on us ? Oh,
no. When people prance up to us like that in
blind excitement, we always step aside and
let them light on the next couple. Its
far the best way. To obviate these little
Inconveniences, the promoters of the Bachelors’
Assembly, of which Mr. Harris, the Mayor, is
president, resolved to limit their attendance
strictly to a certain number, admitting no visitors.
On Friday last, the first Assembly under the new
rules and committee took place at Nlthadale
Rooms, and the result was a most agreeable even-
ing, from eight o’clock till midnight. Eighteen
dances were on the programme, eight being
waltzes, and a quartet of musicians, under Mr. E.
Needs, provided good music; refreshments being
laid in the long room. Black dresses were unusu-
ally plentiful, and were among the best; at least a
dozen nice ones were seen in various materials,
and the belle was, like the late lamented Mr.
Buckley, “found among the blacks.” Some sixty
ladles were present, and about fifty of them had ■
something of crushed strawberry in their toilets.
The strawberry epidemic is very strong at present.
Some had shoulder knots, others gloves, sashes, or
flowers of that curious hue, a little of which is
universally admitted to look well. One of the
tasteful costumes in which it was sparingly
used was all of white nun’s-voillng ; round
the bodice were small tabs, and a row of larger
tabs circled the skirt at the knees, and they all had
a narrow strawberry edging, besides light trim-
ming of the same below; pink geraniums down
one side of the bust completed a pretty fresh-
looking dress. In rich taste was a toilet of ruby
velvet skirt, with amber satin bodloo and panlers,
caught back to the tails behind with brooches,
golden pearls in the hair. A lemon-green satin
costume was peculiar, the front of the skirt being
composed of many rows of fine white lace. A
dress of cardinal satin was gathered all over the
front, and at intervals pearls were placed with
good effect. Trains decidedly few and far between;
ladles being rather fearful of those " angel foot-
steps " lighting on them.
• •
Over two years ago the Sydney Owl Clnb
was formed. At first, meetings were confined only
to male members and visitors; but soon the Club
opened its heart to fair women, and since their first
entry ladies have been made welcome on many
agreeable occasions, Including balls, picnics, hy-
glnxes, and concerts. At the last annual meeting,
arrangements wore made for enlarging the Club,
and from about ISO members the number has now
increased to 240, and the commodious room at the
top of Tattersall's Buildings, Hunter-street, has
been taken for the meetings. It is amply large,
while the pictures, lacc-curtalns, flowers, and
generally tasteful style of adornment give It the
comfortable and pretty appearance of a drawing-
room. Meetings take place on the first Wednesday
in each month, of which eight will bo members’
hoots and four will be hyginxes.(open to ladles).
Last week, the first byglnx was held in the now
rooms, and celebrated by a full attendance of
members and invited .friends, to the number of
over throe hundred, all in full evening costume.
The body of the hull was filled with scats, and the
walls were lined all round with low easy chairs,
occupied by daintily dressed adlos—real wall-
flowers, but not of the dreaded kind ; a platform
for the giand piano and singers was erected at the
end of the ball, carpeted, and upholstered, and the
President, Mr. Caday, with “ Woodlark,” the hou.
sec., occupied a raised table at the side to welcome
the guests, whose names were announced at the
door as they entered. If there wore any fault at all
in the arrangements, it was on the part of those of
the guests who came In lute. A concert was first
given, as follows: “Alice, where art thou?" by
p ‘L)ove “Regret,” in a nicely cultured way, by
Mrs. P, Curtis; selections from “Faust," Miss
Maxted; two comic songs by “Shrike;" "Out on
the rocks,” by Mrs. Caddy,liu a voice of beautiful
tone; “ Will-o’-the-Wlsp, rather below parfor Mr.
M. J. Fitzpatrick; “Rocked in the cradle of the
deep,” Miss Mario St. Clair: “ I seek for thee,” and
“Como into the garden, Maud.” by Mr. W. J.
Rodd, who received an encore; King’s Minstrel,"
Signor Rlcoardi; “ Ruby," Mr. E. Hill; " True to the
last,” Mr. Gee; and “The Village Blacksmith,” by
Mr, F. J. HaJloweil; each item being introduced by
the President with a running commentary of Jokes.
Two presentations wore made; first a fan, with a
life-size owl painted In natural colours on a black
background, to the wife of Mr. President Caddy;
and then an Inscribed silver salver, &o., to the
retiring bon. sec. (“ Lyre who had for two years
so efficiently filled that office. A vontrljoqulal per-
formance by Mr. Benson closed the first portion of
the programme, and then an adjournment Into the
spacious supper-room was made, while chairs were
removed for dancing. It was only then that there
was a chance of seeing how very pretty some of the
dresses wore. One, with cream skirt of nun's veil-
ing, had the black velvet body decked with vividly
yellow sunflowers, same in the dark hair, and
the effect was grand. A sister’s costume was simi-
lar, and also striking, but the skirt was pure white
and the flowers a vivid red ; both having trans-
parent black lace sleeves. Two entirely white cos-
tumes were brightened by ribbons ana flowers of
palo terra cotta pink, and enclosed two pretty
girls. A very rich dress was worn by a handsome
brunette ; it was a lovely blue brochti, cream skirt,
with narrow blue tabs, and cream streamers, styl-
ishly made. A slender brunette looked winsome
entirely in black, with a ruff at the neck. The
most novel dress was worn by a young Mel-
bourne blonde, who was pretty enough to
wear anything; the bodice was “ lake’’-coloured,
and so was a band round the bottom; the skirt
merely darkish grey; the whole dress made in the
extreme of simplicity, and of dull cloth, in strange
contrast to the ordinary gleam of silks and satins.
The idea was quaint, and the effect charming, but
It wouldn’t have suited everyone; personal taste
is the supreme thing in dress. Another charming
toilet was a black velvet bodice and skirt of car-
mine cloth, prettily made. Dancing was kept up
till 2 a.m., au hour later than was intended, and as
the supper room was cool and shady, frequent
trips to It were made, and the evening passed most
eloasuutly. Among those present, were Signor
iammoua, Mr. 8ymes (vice-president of the Mel-
bourne Owl Cluo), Messrs. C. Uueuerbeiu and
Maxted, and other members of the musical and
dramatic professions:'
• • •
The Bachelors of the Upper Hunter gave
It good ball iff the MusweUbrook School of Arte on
the 6th August, second day of the U.H.A. Race
Club meeting. Several visitors from Sydney were
present, and, as often happens, It was not a straight
i away task to decide ©* the belle. Many thought
she was found In the daughter of a Glebe Point
Judge, who is a fine dancer and brilliant talker
(the lady, not the Judge). A Singleton young lady
had many admirers, and Ivy leaves on her dress ;
but though a little given to clinging she was no
creeper while the mnsle played. A third claimant
lived not far from Muswellbrook, and dressed in
white. The most beautiful dress in the room was
worn by a married lady from near Murrurundi.
Catering by the Sydney Co. in good style, and
dancing till 5 a.m.
• • •
The wedding at St. Peter’s, a few days
back, of the Hon. 8. H. Terry’s daughter, Mias
Annie Mabel, to Mr. F. A. Smith, was a very pretty
one. and drew many local spectators, as well as
visitors from town. The bride’s dress consisted of
a splendid court train of Ivoiw Imperial satin, front
of skirt covered with point Flanders lace and train
caught back with bouquets; pointed bodice
almost covered with same lace ; tulle veil, and
wreath corresponding with bouquets on skirt.
Eight bridesmaids officiated and wore cream surah,
four draped with blush pink, and four with
grenat satin : head-dresses of foliage and heath.
A very tasteful costume was worn by Mrs. Terry,
of brown ottoman silk embossed with pansies,
and bonnet of pansies. The Kev Mr. Oarnsoy per-
formed the ceremony, and the breakfast was, not
ns usual, at the residence of the bridegroom's
parents, ClaravUle.
* * *
On 4th August, we stated that Miss
White, of Havunh, was to be married to a
son of the Hon. O. H. Cox. It is not so. Theyoung
lady to whom Mr. Herbert Cox will be married
next month Is Miss Wyatt, of Now England. We
are glad to correct our error.
• • •
A reiy grand ball took place in the Mel-
bourne Town Hall last Thursday, given by the
Mayor. The Governor was present, as also* Lady
Stawell, Sir William, Lady, and Miss Robinson. As
the Mayor’s Ball, onee an annual one, has been
missed of late years, this one was very welcome.
Tbo Highland Schottisobe and Varsovlana were on
the programme. Among the many fine dresses,
Mrs. J. S. Butters wore one of tne most con-
spicuous for novelty. It was of pure white vel-
vet, decked with flowers, and wltn ferns poonah-
painted on It; on the front and sash were the Cor-
poration and Victorian flags hand-painted, aud the
City Arms In gold. Golden fringe, bond-painted
fan on. u golden girdle, and gold and diamond jew-
ellery completed the costume. Mrs. Graham Berry’s
drees was a blue silk and brocade; Lady Wawoll’s,
black silk and honlton lace; Mrs. J. J. Casey’s,
handsome white brocade and gold sleeves; and Miss
Dodgshun's crushed strawberry. Mrs. Dodgshun,
the Mayoress, displayed a court train of grenat
satis, pointed corsage, ruff, and petticoat oT gold
and pink brocade. Mrs. Malleson, noted for ber
toilet genius, looked dlstingud as usual In a bodice
and train of black satin, over a petticoat of cream
satin, dotted with straw pern pons.
• •
The ball in aid of the Granrille Seheol of
Arts was not by any means as big a beem as iho
Hudson affair. Notwithstanding the Inducements
of electric light, special train, and refreshments by
Compagnoni, only some 80 couples appeared.
Arrangements were all right for a pleasant whirl,
If we except the fact that there was (that scarce
thing at a ball) too much room to whirl over: and
the programme, which was maliciously designed
to suit people of the Noah’s Ark epoch—more than
half the dances being square. However, there
were some pretty costumes, and good dancers to
wear them. Falrmount, Ashfleld, sent two smiling
sisters in pink and white, the colours of their
dresses reflected by their rosy cheeks. A pink
moird, trimmed with crushed strawberry fringe,
very deep, well represented Glenhurst. Another
costly costume was worn by a little bru-
nette hailing from Darlington, cardinal satin
peaked bodice, croam skirt elaborately trimmed
with rows of lace, all set off by the perfect dis-
position of her hair. But our heart was entrapped
by the wearer of a gorgeous black satin, body and
skirt of conservative proportions, simply relieved
by silver fringe, with sliver flowers In the hair.
'Hils fair snare was the embodiment of vitality—
a beautiful bundle of all those various attributes
that we group together and stamp “ vivacious” on.
An excellent little companion had her hair and
nock profusely adorned In pinks—a sweet sugges-
tion of floworland. Her skirt of kilted molrt, with
overskirt of crimson brochd, made us want to bo a
pink—a double one. Then Blaoktown sent its
weight of cream satin and ruby brochd, and wide
lace bounces, and innumerable other dress devices:
the most taking, perhaps, being an artistic blend-
ing of ivy-leaf round the neck and skirt. Some of
the usual fancy dresses wore worn, but we’ve got
so worn describing them that wo can’t really do so
any more. They haunt us. Our sleep is a fearful
phantasma of dreadful “ characters. They pass
along in a perpetual procession—the patchwork
Peasants that never lived, and should never be
allowed to; the Folly representatives with sugar-
tong legs; Dukes done up by an accommodating
friend who is “supe" at the Royal; the wonderful
Queens, who might represent anything i.. history
or out of ik from Cleopatra down to Mrs. Ander-
son; lean Ham-lets, and fat Fairies; and the slab-
shaped sylphs who buy two ounces of spangles
and call themselves Night. Fancy dress wants to
have a rest, so we won’t drag in what there was at
Granville. Mr. Fred. Hudson made a lively M.C.,
under the director-like eye of his Pa; and Mr.
Nobbs was there, who Hearty became celebrated
forever by—'“ Nobbs v I lie I” The attendance looked
very small in such a largo building, and all the
front men who were advertised as part of the pen-
ormance were conspicuous by not being there.
Financially, we’re afraid the result of the ball was
rather frosty; but, perhaps, the profit will be
enough te buy spelling-books for the leading In-
habitants, and that must benefit the district,
PQ0U& continued os n«t page.
Young couples should study to give an economic direction to their lives, and should
not commence by getting themselves photographed like this.
Because in case of divorce this style will save a lot of expense. Each can have his or
her own half.


THE COVENTRY MACHINISTS COMPANY
MAKERS BY SPECIAL WARRANT TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES.
TRADE MARK REGISTERED.
THE SPECIAL CLUB.
Intending Purchasers of
Bicycles & Tricycles
Should Write to Us or Call on Us.
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB.
Jane! Mi & Cm.,
As we have always on hand a full
Stock of THE CLUB BICYCLES and
TRICYCLES, we never fail to give
purchasers the best satisfaction.
We have permission from the leading
BICYCLE AND TRICYCLE RIDERS
OF THE COLONY to refer Inquirers
as to the merits of our machines to
them, and we shall take pleasure In
doing this whenever requested, as their
good recommendation has already sold
for us a number of machines. Expe-
rienced Machinists inspect and adjust
every machine.
SPECIAL AGENCY:
THE IMPERIAL CLUB
THE CHEYLESMORE CLUB.
389 George Street, opposite
Royal Hotel.
CRAMPTOH & BRUCE'S
CELEBRATED
OVERSTRUNG IRON-FRAMED PIANOS
Warranted for 7 years—Prices, £25, £30, £35, £42, & £55.
For the first time, a Piano embracing all the merits of a High-class
Price, is brought within the reach of all.
Instrument,
at a Low
oxso-^xts.
Style No. 2, at 12 guineas—a marvel of Cheapness.
WRITE FOR PIANO, ORGAN, AND MUSIC PRICE LISTS, TO
Crampton & Bruce, 281 George-st., Sydney,
OPPOSITE HUNTER-STREET.
PETERSHAM OWL CLUB
THE first ANNUAL BALL of the above Club
will be held in the Petersham Town Hall, on
FRIDAY EVENING, AUGUST 17.
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS.
Tickets : Double ticket, lady and gentleman, 30s.;
gentleman, 21s.; lady, 10s. Bd.
JOHN ADAMS.
Hon. Sec.
Tickets may be obtained from J. M. Ellercarap.
13 Hunter-street; or any of the Committee ; and
at the Town Hall, Petersham.
PLLINEtt, LEAMINGTON.— ST AN-
HOPE PHAETONS ; DOG, TANDEM, and
SPORTING CARTS; Ban-uohes, Landaus, Coaches,
Harness, &c., Builder to ll.M. the Queen, H.I.M.
the Empress of Austria. His Grace the Duke
of Beaufort, &c., &c. Orders telegraphed (30s.)
and executed In seven weeks. English prices.
Coloured designs of latest fashions kept In stock.
WILKINSON, WILLIAMS & CO.,
Hoyle's Chambers, Bond Street, Sydney,
Role Agent* for Australia, Now Zealand,Tasmania.
MOUSTACHE AND WHISKERS.
Hoy.r« Heard Hlxir did thia, and will do it
on either bald bead or bare face. Force*
heavy Moustache ip from 2 to 4 week* and
never fail*. VO.000 young meti already wear
! full beard, .having uaed 1 to 3 pkt'e. Ho
, injury, eaaily applied, certain In effect.
Packets la. fid. eacK,3for'3s:6di, post paid,
sent under cover.free from observation. Address,Frank Douglas
Sole Agent, Jk>* 7So, 6.P.O., Sydney, N.S.W. Douglas,
HORDERN’S
ON THE
IBriclrileld. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE.CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Perns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, lOO PRICES.
Ladies residing: in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge a Set of Jjjce
Curtains. It you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving-, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Tnhi« n, v
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. tW~ Examine carefully the enirravina- of nnr
“ LACE CURTAINS.” * 01 our
r»
fj
' v
4*5
Ew
☆
o oo\
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers of American
, Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES. —Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
& S., Importers of Pipes of every kind, Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Fancy Goods and Sundries.
Si
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS.
[LACE CURTAINS) 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. (LACE CURTAINS)
ISP” Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
The Show at Corowa, held on a lovely day,
gave a fine opportunity for a display of beauty and
toilets- Mrs. Whitaker’s handsome white hack,
Icicle, of course, took the prize, and everyone
thought it a pity Mrs. Whitaker shouldn’t take one,
too, in her dainty navy-blue habit. Miss Watson,
also, a little blonde belle, was most effectively
pretty In a blue cloth riding-habit, and the neatest
tan-coloured gauntlets, and gold-dotted veil from
her little blue cap. Among tho walking dresses,
nany would have drawn admiration if seen at
jiandwick. Miss Anderson, of Brocklesby, wore a
charming green plaid and black velvet with fur
trimming: Miss M’Nab, a ruby velvet. Four
sisters were irresistible in — respectively—blue
plush and white gloves, blue silk and plush trim-
ming, brown velvet decked with feathers, with
yellow flowers in a beaver hat, and dark green silk
and velvet. Three Misses Thompson all wore neat
navy blue, and long black gloves, bugle hats over
bright eyes. And the Border Brass Band enli-
vened the hours.
* * *
Mr. J. E. Redmond, M.P., the lecturer, is
engaged to be married to an Orange heiress—we
mean an heiress of Orange
* * * *
“ Our Boys ” was lately performed by
amateurs at Toowoomba (Q.), before the Lleut.-
Govcrnor Sir Arthur Palmer, and a number of
fashionables. An old Sydney man, F. W. E. Baxter,
admirably rendered Perkyn Mlddlewlck, the
hutterman, and the other parts were taken by well-
known local people...Fairly good concert recently
at Kiama, In aid of the reading room — A fashion-
able audience encouraged the Maitland Philhar-
monic Society last week. Solo and chorus, “ Come
where my love,” a solo by Newcastle lady, and a
duet, “ when the wind blows In from the sea,”
were the gems of the evening. The Maitland ladles
excelled in dress, and special attention was riveted
on a charming young jady from B.M. of musical
ability, and a surveyor’s young wife Lots of
Sydney women smoke cigarettes Dates of
two fixtures altered from last week; Dr.
Badham’s banquet, and Owl Club Ball
On the 17th, Mr. Iceton, Mayor of Yass,
gives a ball, for which nearly 300 invitations are
out An afternoon’s regatta at Snail’s Bay is
talked of soon, also another afternoon’s bi ycling
among members of the Sydney Club only A
grand ball comes off in a few days, to commemorate
Sir Alfred Stephen’s birthday, at Nithsdale, and a
fashionable list of invitations has been issued—A
pleasant evening at Kiama was given by the
manager of the K.S. and A.C. Bank, dancing, new
waltz step, supper, and quiet young belle from tho
big swamp Professor west’s monthly Cin-
derella party takes place to-night in his hail,
Tattersall’s buildings Turn-verein masked
ball at the Exhibition, Melbourne, was very
largely patronised on Monday night last At
Bourke, a concert in aid of St. Stephen’s Church
of England drew an appreciative audience, and of
the singers, Mrs. Wright, Mrs. Gibson, and Miss
Bull were chief in merit; while Messrs. B. and B.,
by constant attention to their throats, had got into
good voice The City Band plays at three o’clock
to-day at Wvnyard Square, and on Saturday after-
noon in Mooro Park.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Citizens’ Ball to the Mayor (Exhibition).... Aug. 16
Comp. Ball Mr. W. King (Oddfellows Hall).. Aug. 16
Banquet to Hon. G. R. Dibbs J— Aug. 18
Banquette Dr. Badham (Town Hall) ...Aug. 21
City Band, evening (Exhibition) Aug. 33
Windsor Masonic Ball Aug. 33
Gymnastic Sociable Aug. 23
WoollahraPrivate Assembly (Nithsdale)... Aug, 34
Agricultural Society’s Show opens... Aug.34
Petersham Owl Club Ball........... .Aug.29
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) Aug. 31
St. Vincent’s Annual Ball (Exhibition) Sept. 4
Government House Ball Sept. 5
School of Industry Bali (Town Hall). Sept. 11
Manly Wildflower Show Sept. 14
E.S.A.A. Club Spoils Sept. 15
Notices of all interesting Social Events (pro-
perly authenticated by tho names and addresses of
the writers) will be inserted.
Sydney, 14th August.
Dear Beli,e,— All the world and his wife, I sup-
pose, will be at the Citizen's Ball to tho Mayor and
Mayoress, on Thursday. If so many tickets as I
hear have been sold, wo had bettor commence
practising the problem of how to dance a set of
quadrilles on a hearth-rug. Of course, you can
irenerally get a little room at the sides, but the
floor isn’t good there; I’m afraid they only take
pains to do the middle nicely. There will be lots
of people there, though, who won t want any more
room than a chair takes up—old parties, you know,
antediluvians, who proclaim with pride that they
haven’t danced for twenty years. Oh! and just
fancy, Belle, the Mayor can’t dance! Isn’t that
funny ? I always thought Mayors wore clever men
who could do anything, and that was why they
were picked. They do say he was going to take
lessons not long ago. It’sa very good plan to have
spectators’ tickets—so many will want to go—in-
cluding refreshments, too, quite a new idea. Then
there are steamers to half-a-dozen places at 3
o'clock, and a special train to Parramatta, calling
everywhere, so Fio will have no dilliculty getting
home. Do you think my new pink will look nice
in the electric light ?
On Tuesday last, the 7th, we went to see a fashion-
able wedding at St. Luke’s, Burwood—that of
Miss Annie Muriel Beaumont, third daughter of
Mr. W. Beaumont, of Arthursleigh, Burwood,
to Mr. A. H. Stephen, third son of Mr. George
Milner Stephen. The bride wore white broclid
Sitin made with pointed corsage and very long
train, tulle veil and wreath of orange blossoms.
There were six bridesmaids, two in dresses of pink
mm’s veiling with wreaths of pink heath; two in
blue, also of nun’s veiling, with wreaths of blue
flowers; and the smallest couple ,n white trimmed
with pink. The bridal party was small, consisting
only of the Immediate relatives and friends of the
bride and bridegroom. The most noticeable dress
was that of Mrs. Stephen : heliotrope satin petti-
coat, trimmed profusely with white lace, bodice
and tunic of velvet of darker shade; cream-
coloured bonnet with heliotrope feather. Another
costume was bodice and tunic of brown brocade,
over skirt of brown ottoman silk, bonnet to match.
A black brochd and satin, with pale pink bonnet,
looked very well. The church was nearly full of
spectators. A small sensation was created when
the wedding party were leaving, by the horses in
Mrs. Stephen’s carriage (not the bride’s, fortu-
nately) refusing to move for some time, and
plunging so violently when they did make up their
minds to proceed, that the lookers on flew precipi-
tately up the steps of the church.
The prevailing impression on my mind on return-
ing from the Botanic Gardens on Thursday after-
noon, after hearing the City Band, was of myrtle
green velvet; most of the costumes worn on the
occasion being of that becoming shade and
material. One dress, composed entirely of green
velvet, with hat of satin and feather of same
colour, looked very well. Another had jacket and
tunic of satin over velvet skirt. Hat, green satin,
trimmed with lace, fastened with gold pins, and
cream feather. A navy blue velvet, with trimming
of irr descont bead fringe, was very becoming to
its wearer, a young lady with lovely complexion.
I liked a dark brown velvet with feather trimming
exceedingly. The effect of a handsome dress of
black and grey Pekin velvet was spoilt by an
odious brown fur tippet. Two black velvet dresses,
with moonlight fringe, looked very nice, A light
Srrey cloth or cashmere costume, made very nicely,
ooked well on a tall figure. I thought two claret
coloured velvet skirts, with grey cloth jackets,
pretty. A peacock blue feather in a large hat,
worn with a dark green dress, looked extremely
odd. There were many black satin and
all more or less handsome. The male element was
not largely represented; but there was the usual
small crowd of men surrounding the musicians.
Two or throe summer parasols made their first
appearance for the season, and the day was quite
warm enough for them, too. If the transparent
sun-shades are to make their way to these latitudes,
sunstrokes will be the fashionable ailment for the
Summer, I think.
On Saturday morning, after doing tho block,
while enjoying a cup of Quong Tart’s delicious tea
in the Royal Areade, we heard the overture to the
“Poet and Peasant," played by Mr. Withers’
orchestrion, which really seems a triumph of
mechanism. In the warm weather I should think
the Royal Arcade ought to be extensively patron-
ised. It is like a bit of fairy land on coming out of
the hot dusty streets. Our Arcades are certainly
ever so far superior to those In Melbourne.
Owing to the gloomy weather on Saturday, or
perhaps to the superior attraction of the races at
Randwick, toilets on the Block were not so brilliant
as usual. A costume of pale silver grey with
§anels of satin, and hat to match, looked like
pring. A black velvet made plainly, a bouquet
of violets and snowdrops in front, looked very
neat. Several cashmeres of brown or green, trim-
med with gold braid, appeared. A prune velvet
was becoming. In Pltt-street I saw a handsome
dress of ruby striped satin, with panels of darker
shade down the side of the skirt; largo felt hat,
cavalier shape was worn with this. Navy blue
cloth, with long coat tail jacket, trimmed with
gold braid, I admired as much as any I saw; also a
dark brown satin and velvet. There is a good deal
of tartan to be seen in sashes and bonnet trim-
mings.
We must wait for a few weeks for novelties, for
the Spring goods have hardly appeared in the shop
windows yet.
Tulle is to be very much worn for ball-dresses, I
believe, and it is very becoming. But it is so
easily crushed; and with the first trimming, which
is to be, it will be necessary that one’s partner in a
waltz should hold one at a respectable distance, or
the result will be a compote where one would least
like to have It. For instance, with a bunch of
cherries fastened on the left shoulder of a dress, or
the corsage, the gentleman would experience con-
siderable difficulty in avoiding a catastrophe.
Crushed roses have been quite d la mode, but we
don’t want real cherries or wax plums crushed on
our bosoms—you know.
I am, dear Belle,
Yours affectionately,
MAB.


Artificial teeth on Gold, v uicanite, &c.,
made on the latest American principles;
easy fit. defying detection. MARSHALL EROS.,
Surgeon Dentists, 106 Market-street, near Hyde
Park. All dental operations performed with skill.
Painless extractions. Teeth stopped. Charges
strictly moderate.
TJUBLICHIGH SCHOOL FORGIRLS, SYDNEY.
Head Mistress:
MISS LUCY WHEATLEY WALKER,
Assisted by an efficient staff of Teachers.
The above School will be opened on 1st October
next, in promisee situated in Elizabeth-street.
Pee: Two guineas per quarter, payable in ad-
vance. Candidates whose parents are duly certified
to be unable to pay the fee, may be admitted free,
provided they pass the entrance examination.
The entrance examination will be as follows:—
Reading: To read a passage from some
standard author, pronouncing every word
distinctly, and giving due emphasis and
modulation to each sentence as a whole.
To have an acquaintance with the mean-
ings of words selected from the passage
read.
Dictation : To write a passage of about four-
teen lines dictated from some standard
author, or an ordinary newspaper, with
correct spelling and punctuation.
Arithmetic : To solve questions in Proportion,
Vulgar and Decimal Fractions.
Grammar : To parse the more difficult words
in a passage of about six lines. To dis-
tinguish the true subjects and the true
predicates in sentences. To correct in-
elegant and ungrammatical expressions.
To exemplify the correct usage of picked
words.
French : Schneider’s First French Course,
Exercises 1 to 60 Inclusive.
Examinations for the admission of pupils will be
held on 20th September next, and the 10th January,
1884, respectively. The ten Candidates, not over
fourteen years of age, who gain most marks and
show the necessary proficiency at these examina-
tions, will be awarded Scholarships entitling them
to free education for a year, and, subject to the
Teacher's annual favourable reports on their pro-
ficiency and conduct, for the two following years.
Pull particulars respecting the teaching staff and
the course of instruction will be announced in
future advertisements. „ TT T
H. MiLliSn,
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 9th August, 1883.
PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL FOR BOYS, SYDNEY.
Head Master:
JOSEPH COATES, ESQ., (present Head Master of
Newington College,)
Assisted by an efficient staff of Teachers.
The above School will be opened on 1st October
next, In premises situated In Castlereagh-street.
Fee: Two guineas per quarter, payable In ad-
vance. Candidates whose parents are duly certified
to be unable to pay the fee, may be admitted free,
provided they pass the entrance examination.
The entrance examination will be as follows :—
Reading : To read a passage from some
standard author, pronouncing every word
distinctly, and giving due emphasis and
modulation to each sentence as a whole.
To have an acquaintance with the mean-
ings of words selected from the passage
read.
Dictation : To write a passage of about four-
teen lines dictated from some standard
author, or an ordinary newspaper, with
correct spelling and punctuation.
Arithmetic : To solve questions in Proportion,
Vulgar and Decimal Fractions, Interest
and Discount.
Grammar : To parse the more difficult words
In a passage of about six lines. To dis-
tinguish the true subjects and the true
predicates In sentences. To correct in-
elegant and ungrammatical expressions.
To exemplify the correct usage of picked
words.
Euclid : Book I., Definitions, etc., Propositions
1 to 20 Inclusive.
Algebra : First Four Rules.
Latin : Smith’s Principle Latina. Part I. to
Exercise 15 Inclusive.
Examinations for the admission of pupils will be
held, on 20th September next, and the 10th January,
1884, respectively. The ten Candidates, not over
fourteen years of age, who gain most marks and
show the necessary proficiency at these examina-
tions, will bo awarded Scholarships entitling them
to tree education for a year, and, subject to the
Teacher’s annual favourable reports on their pro-
ficiency and conduct, for the two following years.
Full particulars respecting the teaching staff and
the course of Instruction will be announced in
future advertisements.
G. MILLER,
Acting Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 9th August, 1883.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 7th August, 1883.
PRE-EMPTIVE AND AUCTION LEASES.
AS the period is approahlng during which pre-
emptive lease and auction leaseholders must
pay their rents for renewal, It has been considered
desirable to state, for the information of such
persons, that much unnecessary delay and incon-
venience will be avoided, and the probability of
ombarraslng complications materially diminished,
if they, instead of forwarding their amounts
d ; rect to the Treasury, will pay them to the Local
Crown Lands Agent, who will issue specific re-
ceipts, and transmit the money to Sydney with
such information as is required by the Head Office.
Although the law allows lessees the option of
either course, that now recommended will be
found by far the more desirable one to follow; but
if any persons should prefer to for ward their rents
direct to the Treasury, it must be understood that
the remittance must be accompanied by a letter
containing the numbers and particulars of the
leasts to which they wish the money to be applied.
JAMES 8. FARNELL.
Sent post free for Is. stamps to defray postage.
“TRUTH,”
A TREATISE showing the under-surface evils
of society that cause Impediments to Mar-
riage ; Celibacy ; Woman ; Advice to those about
to Marry. Also, the Injury caused by the use of
Tobacco and Alcohol; How to Regain and Preserve
your Health ; &c, &o. Address
R. T. SELBY, M.H.,
DEVONSHIRE ST„ SURRY HILLS, SYDNEY.
MAKING A GREAT MAN.
The London public has been exercised by
the claims put forward by Mr. Irving Bishop to the
possession of a strange and miraculous power
r ‘ thought-reading." It is not a new thing, but has
acquired special Interest because of the dispute
which lately occurred between Bishop and bahou-
chere, M.P., of Truth. Labouchere offered £1000
to Bishop’s £100, if he could read the number of an
enclosed banknote, under conditions precluding 1
the possibility of trickery. On the mh June, in
bt. James’s Hall, Bishop tried it. Mr. Waddy, M.P.,
occupied the chair, a committee was impannelled,
and then arose the question—who should hold the
note ? Mr. Charles Bussell, M.P., offered to place a
note In the hands of the well-known scientist,
Professor Hay Lankester, to be handed to Bishop
if he read its number. Bishop would not try
while it was in Lankester’s hands. A similar offer
from a Colonel Trench was dec Ined. Finally, a
Colonel Statham was elected, to whom a banknote
was handed, and he looked at the number and put
it In his pocket. Bishop was then blindfolded, and,
holding Statham's wrist with one hand, he correctly
wrote on a blackboard the number of the note
with the other. Labouchere devoted a long
article in Truth to showing that the whole
thing •' as a trick, and how it was done.
“Either,” says he, “Mr. Bishop was guilty of
a deliberate and Impudent fraud, or we
must believe that ho alone of all the millions who
have lived on the globe is in possession of an attri-
bute which is supposed to belong alone to the
Almighty.” Bishop, who is a smart American,
makes lots of money. Five years ago he was un-
known in London; he first started in his business
to disprove the pretensions of Spiritualists; Dr.
Carpenter and Professor Huxley account for his
“ reading " powers by the theory of unconscious
indications being given by persons while Bishop
watches them closely, which indications he Is pecu-
liarly apt at interpreting. Labouchere puts it
down to ordinary conjuror’s collusion. Mr. Irving
Bishop, however, has made a largo fortune, keeps
up state in his carriage, and keeps a private secre-
tary ; so is probably clover enough to dip into
other peoples pockets, if not into their minds.
Tlaurloe Rollinat is the newest celebrity of
the Paris salons. For two or three years, with
Bohemian eccentricity, he has shunned rather than
courted popularity, scattering his pearls of song
in cafiis and artistic cabarets, heard only by a few
of his brother poets, painters, Journalists, and
oocottos. Butane day he was “discovered ” by a
critic in the rooms of Para Bernhardt, Curiously,
ho preferred not to publish in a book the strange
The incident I am about to narrate Is Interest-
ing for three reasons: it relates to a famous
colonist-It Illustrates the profound truth em-
bodied by Shakespeare In the lines put Into the
mouth of Brutus: —
“ There Is a tide in the affairs of men
Which, taken at the Hood, leads on to fortune —
and, lastly, It Is true. Nor Is it for these reasons
alone that It possesses attraction. There is a theory
which of late years has gained many converts. It
is that first formulated by “ Buckle ’’—the theory
for whose elucidation he sacrificed his life by
working himself to death. It Is that—so far as
progress Is concerned—the nation Is everything,
the Individual nothing. In other words. It Is that
the current of human affairs—the advancement or
retrogression of nations or communities In all that
complex movement to which men have given the
name of “civilization’’-flows In obedience to
great general laws, and that Individuals, whether
good or bad, have little, If any, Influence on It. It
is, in fact, the Calviulstlo doctrine of predestination
or necessity applied to sociology. My brief story
is directly opposed to this theory of Buckle’s, show-
ing as It does how a man’s life may be preserved or
Its tenor changed by the merest chance, and how
that life, so strangely preserved, may alter the for-
tunes of a nation.
About 1857, John Durand (the names alone are
fictitious) arrived in Victoria. He was an Ameri-
can, and, could turn his band to anything,
from private theatricals to providing a brand
new constitution, modelled on that of the States,
and warranted to be as serviceable to Papuans
under the Southern Crosses to pioneers In Western
border towns. He started a business venture, and
did most of the work himself. He acted In
a play written by himself and a business rival.
The piece Itself possessed no merit, literary
or constructive, and Durand's part was con-
fined to the unassuming one of wheeling a
barrow on the stage and selling vegetables. The
little town was day by day falling Into tiat
lethargy which has overtaken so many Australian
settlements. Durand’s business Just gave him a
living, and, but for the breaking out of a new rush
In a neighbouring colony, he might have settled
down ana frittered away on small municipal mat-
ters the talents destined to guide the first uncer-
tain steps made by a young nation just growing
out of Its swaddling clothes. He Joined the stream
of emigration to the new diggings, and, on his
arrival, again started in business. The enterprise
taxed his resources of head and pocket. But,
among all my acquaintances, I cannot call to mind
any so ready to take advantage of any chance
sent his way by the battledore of circumstance.
A good friend, a relentless enemy, determined,
self-confident, he was now on the first rung of
prosperity’s ladder. The business paid, and paid
well. But, with all his talent for success, Durand
had one vice, by which, like the vessel of the
Danaides, the waters of profit ran out as fast as
they were poured In. He was a gambler from his
cradle. He deals in millions now. Single pounds
enough when I knew him. He ran info debt
—mostly debts of honour—and the business estab-
lished with such pains had to go. He sold It, and,
after meeting all liabilities, found himself In pos-
session of £1000. with nothing to do. Then he in-
duced some friends to assist him in an opposition
affair; but, notwithstanding all the care bestowed
upon It, It was but a sickly child from the first, and
died after a few months* struggle. In fancy, ho
Is before me now, as he was in those old days of
twenty years ago. Affable, smiling, persuasive,
conveniently deaf when It suited his purpose, he
won many admirers and friends.
It was earl v in 18—. Two friends and I had spent
the evening with some acquaintances In the
suburbs, and afterwards walked Into town. We
called at a hotel where accommodation could be
had all night by customers. Hearing people In the
next room throwing dice, we were Just speculating
on the chances of Durand's being among them,
when the door communicating between the rooms
opened, and he walked through that In which we
were seated. He took no notice of us; but, pale,
excited, silent, his fingers nervously twitching, he
passed through Into the back yard. Shortly after-
wards, his gambling opponent, Jem Dixon, a
countryman of his own, appeared at the same
door, and, walking across the room, passed out. It
was a summer night. Half the yard was bathed In
moonlight, while the other half was shaded by
some of the buildings. The gas was low, and the
window half-raised. Suddenly Dixon s voice was
I Drop that, or give It to me.’’
Looking through the window, I saw the two men
standing In the moonlight directly below rue,
Dixon, the more powerful of the two, had a firm
grasp of the other’s right wrist. ... . „
“ Give It to me,” he repeated; and, without a
word, Durand suffered his late opponent to deprive
him of a small pocket revolver.
“ How could you be such a fool ? said Dixon,
after a pause. .. ,, ..
« j owe you £3000, and can never pay It, was the
"‘“"wtTshall see,” said the winner. “You cannot
do so at present, of course; but, from this out, we
two are in the same boat. 1 want the money, and
can put you in the way of obtaining It. You have
abilities. Leave off gambling for a time. 1 have
Influence, and will use it in your behalf. But no
more of this folly that I so fortunately Inter-
rupted.” They shook hands, and a few minutes
afterwards passed unconcernedly back Into the
r*om where the money had been won and lost.
From that night, everything Durand touched
prospered, and ho shortly found himself In a
position of high eminence. But, finding that
the knowledge possessed of him by his neigh-
bours was not to his advantage, his friend
Jem’s Influence was brought to bear, and an open-
ing found for him in a place where some of his
characteristics wore unknown. Circumstances
still favoured him, and, like all successful men, he
seized the circumstances as they arose and turned
them to his own advantage. In public are, at all
events, this capacity for recognising and taking
advantage of opportunities is the real index of
genius. Ability, effrontery, sociability, and a keen
analytical power of discovering men’s motives
under the most misleading masks, brought him to
the front, and made his fortune.
We now find the poor adventurer presiding over
a department where his peculiar talents had full
scope. Money was spent with an apparent reck-
lessness which made the timid apprehensive. But
even when his madness appeared at its height
there was a fascination and a method about it
which disarmed opposition. Some say he has
reached and passed his zenith, others that ho Is
destined to play a far more important part, before
a larger audience, in the world’s most famous poli-
tical theatre. It would be Idle to speculate. What
I know Is that the life, saved by the merest chance,
shaped for years the policy ot a young country In
the most critical phase of Its career, and that the
same life, at one time so perilously near a dog s
death and a suicide’s grave, may ultimately shape
the destinies of an empire.
One would imagine that if it were possible
for our dunderheaJed dailies to be correctly in-
formed on any one particular subject, that subject
would be the doings of the Phoenix Park assassins.
And yet they will persist In thrusting greatness
upon Mr. Kavanagh, C.M.G. by speaking of him
as, “ Skln-the-Goat.” The lawful owner ot that
aristocratic title is Mr. Fitzharris, the gentleman
who drove Messrs. Brady, Kelly, and others to the
£atal spot. Mr. Kavanagh’s cab was honoured on
that occasion by the distinguished presence of
Alderman Carey, since removed. yaHmam qui,
«e. *
Compositions, fragments of which he let fall in
drawing-rooms, or sang among his coteries of
friends, and it is only now that he has primed his
first volume, “ Les Novroses;" a strange title—
the passionate outpourings of a man whose
nerves are overstrung, the morbid fancies of
a male hysteric set in metre, a lugubrious and
lascivious book altogether, with a strong dash
of the quaint, dark fantasy' of Edgar Poe
in it, a stronger dash of Algernon Swinburne, and,
stronger than all, the spirit of the author of “ Los
Fleurs du Mai," Charles Baudelaire. His brain
runs not among all manner of sensual fancies.
His muse is in turn caressing and amorous as au
eastern bride; gloomy and fetid as a charnel-house:
grotesque and diabolical as the hideous carved
monsters that grin from the top of the towers of
Notre Dame, His visit to a fashionable drawing-
room is thus described: —“The last echoes of a
sonata had died away; the parterre of tastefully-
dressed ladies that filled the drawing-room was
buzzing admiration of some pianist who had lust
risen; Hollmann, the King of Holland's violon-
cellist, was with religious care unpacking the new
Instrument he paid ten thousand francs for lately;
when a ‘hush! hishl’ went round, and sudden
silence fell upon the assembled company'.
A young fellow, rather slovenly In his dre-s,
stepped to the vacant sent at the piano, pushed his
tumbled black looks back carelessly from his broad
Intellectual foreho d, plucked nervously once or
twice at his moustache, ran his fingers lightly over
the keys, and broke into lugubrious song. This
was Maurice Rolllnat. The verses were his own.
It was a morbid thing, and we all felt gruesome
when it finished. The ladles shuddered a little, and
said, ‘ Do let us have something else.’ Then Rol-
linat, changing his mood with the rapidity and ease
of a practised actor, glided into a pretty, passionate
Arab love duo, singing alternately in his natural
voice, and in au exquisitivoly modulated falsetto,
as he came to the male aud female versos. Ho
stopped amid a perfect storm of applause, and,
after resting for a few minutes, again started off
in a grotesque key, suggestive of Edgar Allen
Poe—something about an amorois toad and a
mad cat. And the poet mimicked the animals
ho was telling about with such llfe-Uke power
that it positively made one’s flesh creep. You
will perceive that the fashionable drawing-
room bard has a slightly diseased Imagination. He
is the very man to captivate a sickly, sensitive,
hysterical, passionate woman like Sara Bernhardt,
and it seems indeed almost a pity that he did not
get the start of Monsieur Damala. 'The new poet
la the French Oscar Wilde, though of far deeper
power than was ever by his prototype,
who thus speaks of him:— Kollinat is
—er—modern in form—er—as well as inspirit,
murmured Oscar, caressing flnR 0
while, “and rather-er-weak. Baudelaire, while
—er —modern in spirit, is—er —so gloriously er
antique in—er—form."
Messrs. Trebeck and Son’s Wool and Pro-
duce Warehouse, Circular Quay.
We give In this issue a full-page engraving
of the new great warehouse of Messrs.
Trebeck and Son, Bridge and Caatlereagh
streets, Circular Quay, Sydney, now in course
of erection and nearing completion. The
grand features of this new warehouse already
show out, and the general verdict is that, in
point of convenience and adaptability, and
likewise in an architectural sense, this work
is unsurpassed in any city of the Australian
colonies. Added to great strength are
originality of design and accuracy of execu-
tion. Then, added again to these advantages
is that of position: for the warehouse is
situated in the very part of the city most
suited to the business intended to be con-
ducted therein. The edifice stands at the
corner of Bridge and Castlereagh streets,
within a few yards of the Circular Quay,
where our biggest merchantmen and ocean-
going steamers are berthed. The structure has
seven floors, and the foundations, which are
of blues tone, are on the solid rook, a depth
of 20ft. having in some places to be reached
for that purpose. The base course rises 2ft.
above the ground level, and then for 27ft.
there is the celebrated Randwick sandstone
(Try’s quarry), the remainder being com-
prised of ornamental brickwork, which pro-
duces a very artistic effect. The interior
view gives an idea of stupendous strength.
Iron pillars and girders, specially designed
and imported from England, support joists
Sin. deeper than are to be foundin any other
warehouse in the colonies. The total floor
space is 8500 superficial feet, and the storing
capacity 541,850 cubic feet. The building is
designed so as to receive a flood of light for
each floor, and allowing for an arrangement
of the wool, to afford display and Inspection,
there will be space for just 11,360 bales. The
uppermost floor will be a clear space, hav-
ing a glass roof the whole extent, and
through each tier of bales there will be a
space of eight feet of light. Each
bale will be opened at the end to
allow of thorough inspection On the
first floor the auction sales will be
held, and with the improvements decided
on, this may be looked forward to as unsur-
passed in any warehouse of the kind in the
colonies. The roof of the building will
afford storage accommodation for 11,000
gallons of water for use in case of fire, and
in premises adjoining will be powerful
hydraulic machinery, working passenger
and goods lifts from each of the six doors—
in which respect, nothing so extensive, so
safe or complete has yet been attempted in
these parts. The total cost of the structure
is between £50,000 and £60,000. The archi-
tects are Messrs. Blaokmann and Parkes, a
young firm who deserve every credit for the
originality and effectiveness of their design.
Messrs. Trebeck and Son, whose business
will shortly be conducted here, are a firm
whose name has been associated with the
trade of this port for the last five and twenty
years. They conduct a large wool-broking
and produce business having connection with
every district in N.S.W., and likewise with
Victoria, Queensland, and N.Z., with which
latter colony they do about the principal busi-
ness of this city ingrain, flour, etc. With the
additional advantage of storage of wool, and
its receipt, display, and shipment, which the
new stores undoubtedly give, the firm intend
greatly enlarging their pastoral business,
and certainly to that end few men have ex-
hibited more energy and enterprise. The
contractor for the work is Mr. John Try,
who has heretofore been connected with
other very important undertakings in this
city. The white and brown sandstone used
in Messrs. Trebeck and Soo’i warehouse, all
of which comes from Mr. Try’s own quarries
at Randwiok, demonstrates that anew source
of supply lies in that direction. The hand-
some red bricks used in the structure
come from the new brick-works situate at
Merrylands, Granville, where several kilns of
the annular and Scotch pattern are in con-
stant operation. The whole of the wood-
work is executed at the contractor s own
branch works in various parts of the city.
At the present moment, Mr. Try has on hand
—Mr. J. B. Bundle’s warehouse, Wynyard
Square; Mr. John Sol Oman’s stores, York-
street; a warehouse for the Hon. John
Frazer in Kent-street; Riley Brothers’ new
business place in Oxford-street, &o., &c.;
and altogether constant employment is
given 10 250 hands.
LOVE AND LIQUOR.


P’ddln?l°n» we see, is suffering severely
from a «-Jld in the head. However, a cold in the
heed is better than nothing.
In N.S.W. the vital question is, how to
settle the people on iho land. In Egypt the pro-
blem is being solved by means of the cholera. This
seldom fails to settle them not only on the land,
hut a good way in it. It is the advent of the epi-
demic that our legislators await, in order to eseane
from their difficulties. Should it come, it is nretty
safe to assume that there is one thing it will cer-
tainly settle—the Government.
Another teacher had up for assault on a
“*• It is time to adopt more rigorous moans for
a stop to this sort of thing. It was a
and the child was a boy of twelve,
is at it again. It is really serious
the Pn 0 ’ Mr. Mealy is reported to have asked in
fa 1110,13 bow m my convicts were to be found
It i» v [ ttra ment and Parliament of N.S. Wales.
•Mkwa! ur 3 ?, a the f*co of it. What Mr. Healy did
WsIm u Mow many men are there in the N.S.
r*fiiahjei)t who ought to be ip gaol ? ’’
“Whisky did it, but I’ll never touch au-
1 said tho murderer on the gallows, as
the hang-man sprang- tho trap.
Sir Theodore Martin, who has written,
among other things, some exquisite translations of
Schiller, is a courtier and a Court biographer. But
there are depths which he objects to fathom. It
was hinted by royalty the other day that a inono-
graph ot John Brown would be acceptable.
Chronicling the small beer of a court is bad
enough, but to record the hopes and fears and
trials and triumphs of a “ flunkey ! ” Ugh!
The bearded child born recently at Diar-
bekir “ has, from the moment of its birth, behaved
in an exceedingly noisy and violent manner.” Per-
haps the child wants to be shaved.
At Melbourne, the “ Boy Politician ” is
i short y o marry a wealthy heiress. The young
( lady Happened to be present one night at Dr.
Simms’ lecture at the Athenicum, when Mr. J. P. T.
j Caulfield mounted the platform, and was told by
the phrenologist that he was a heaven-born states-
I man; that, in the course of three years, ho would
occupy a seat in Parliament; and that, before ten
| y*a« time, he would be Premier of Victoria,
“Stella, of theS.M. ITerat/d, says “Prin-
cess Dolgoroftki, morganatic widow of the late
rHn r ’r> S ..m C J C # i,n8) ’ wit b bortliree beautiful child-
tjporff° an< i the Prinoesses Olga and
Catherine —a sentence which needs re writing (to i
be consonant with truth) thusly, c.ij. : Dolgorouki,
late Czar s harlot. Is herewith her three bastards.
vu-Vt"® Connaught” opened the
I+ihtVJ'' ?®n li -T ,b H lor -\:. Tv,lm ainham Gaol being
stuffed with Invincihles, the show was held in
London this time. This is a good way to encourage
Irish manufactures—exhibit them where thev were
-not made. I he Prince hopes that the exhibition |
will lead to the extension of tho lace industry and
the prosperity of Ireland.” Wethinkso, too.flfyou
want to pacify a people, there is no use humbug-
ging with halt measures. Go at once to the root !
of the matter, and hold a “ lacoexhibltion ” agood 1
way off. Bung! — We often hear, writes Vanity I
r air, that the French have not the governing!
faculty, and their colonial enterprises are generally I
failures. Yet in the town of Algiers, property has I
not only doubled itself within a decade, but has in I
some cases quintupled itself. Thus Lord Kingston I
could sell his Algiers estate for five times its cost ;
price. His Irish estate would prove more hard to
realise just now,
Lady Frederick Cavendish, widow of thy
murdered Chief Secretary for Ireland, has already
grown tired of widowhood. She is about to niarr’v
Mr. Charles Meysey Clive, of Whitfield, Hereford*
shire, whose first wife was Lady Catherine, a sister
of Lord Denbigh. Queer world, isn’t it ? Only tho
other day, we heard of her ladyship in connection
with a melting inscription for Lord Frederick's
tombstone. The gift of forgetfulness is the
greatest with which wo have been endowed by
Providence.
A coach accident has at last occurred at
Walgett. One of the passengers, seeing a fence in
front, jumped out, and—fortunately for himself—
fell on ins Hoad. Tnoi horses pursued their Diad
career past the “pub.” and drew up at a tree
They wouldn’t have drawn up there only it hap-
pened to be very firmly fixed. There was a younif
Englishman in the boot. The collision wolie him
up. Hut it did more. It induced him to get over
about half an acre of ground before alighting.
Then he sat down with much emphasis on a bush
missionary who was saying grace after a full meal
of mutton and damper. We’d like to see this Bng-
hsh lad s letter to his mother giving his implo-
sions of Australia. And yet they would probably
be as correct as those which will, be no doubt, subset
tdous vifitorj” 0 ’ h9W0 * w tke Hjwald’s “illy*.
MESSRS. TREE EC K AND SON’S WOOL WAREHOUSE, BRIDGE AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.


PROSPECTUS
OF THE
CHARTERS TOWERS CONSOLS
Gold Mining Company
CAPITAL, £24,000, IN SIXTY SHARES OF £400 EACH.
This virtually is a PRIVATE COMPANY or SYNDICATE, formed for the purpose of purchasing POUR distinct GOLD MINES,
together with Machinery, at Chai ters Towers, Queensland. Immediately the sixty shares are taken up, the subscribers will
re-form into a Limited Liability Company of £60,000, in £1 shares. 48,000 shares, fully paid up, will be assigned to the
original Shareholders; £4000 cash retained for working expenses ; and the balance of 12,000 shares will form a reserve—to be
offered to the public at 20s. per share, at such intervals as the directors may deem fit.
Provisional
Sir EDWARD STRICKLAND, K.C.B.
Hon. W. A. BRODRIBB, M.L.C.
HUGH GEORGE, Esq.
GEO. C. LOUGHNAN, Esq., M.L.A.
Directors:
Sir PATRICK JENNINGS, K.C.M.G.
Hon. H. E. KING, M.L.A. (Speaker Queensland Parliament)
Captain W. II. ELDRED, (Consul-General, Chili)
JOHN HIGGINS, Esq.
Solicitor;
J. ARTHUR DOWLING, Hunter-street.
THIS COMPANY is formed for the purpose of working, under a perfect system of practical management, the well-known
Gold Mines, known as
THE GREAT BRITAIN,
THE YOUNG ST. PATRICK,
THE NORTH AUSTRALIAN,
THE WASHINGTON,
SITUATE AT
CHARTERS TOWERS, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Perhaps no part of Australia possesses such claim to public attention for its metalliferous wealth as
Northern Queensland, and yet. as a matter of fact, its wonderful mineral resources have been hitherto
comparatively unknown to those resident in the Souther i Colonies. Foreign capital being unobtain-
able, the necessary slow development of the many goldtlcids was undertaken by the working miners,
who, with only limited means at command, plodded on year after year, confining themselves solely to
surface working—iraprovidently squandering without thought of provision for future operations, and
abandoning rich permanent reefs immediately the water level was reached and steam machinery abso-
lutely a necessity. And yet in the face of this careless system of working, with the crudest of ap-
pliances, most astonishing results have already been obtained. Charters Towers, the most important
of all Queensland goldfields, is situated 80 miles from Townsville, and was discovered by Messrs. Hugh
Mosraan, George B. Clarke, and 8. Fraser, in January, 1872. The prospectors, after due consideration,
marked off the prospecting claims “North Australian,” “General Wyndhara,” and “Washington.’ 5
Since that period nearly
One Million Ounces off Gold
have been taken from Charters Towers, which bids fair to become the premier goldfield of Aus-
tralia*
The eminent geologist, the Hev. J. E. TBNISON-WOODS, F.G.S., F.L.A., in a recent report, writes
RS follo^ 0 S enumerate all the mineral wealth of Queensland would make a long list. I can only repeat
the true extent of which is not even guessed as yet; and of the probabilities of mines still to be
QUEENSLAND HAS A MOKE REASONABLE PROSPECT THAN ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.’
A CLEAR UNVARNISHED DESCRIPTION OF EACH MINE IS HERB GIVEN,
Supported by
RELIABLE AND TRUSTWORTHY REPORTS
THE GREAT BRITAIN.
Lease, No. 338. Area, six acres.—This property takes the form of a small mountain, itself a perfect
mass of gold-bearing reefs. The ground is soft, and fairly impregnated with the precious metal. The
reefs in It are of great thickness, one in particular being opened out for 14 feet. A deep shaft (85 feet
vertical) has recently bottomed on a mundlc reef, indicating by late assay 5ioz. to the ton. 1540 tons of
top stone (surfacings, Ac.) have been crushed for a yield of
ficent returns, ns 1000 per month could be put through at an
ton. The MACHINERY consists of a newly-imported 13 h.
and pumping gear.
oz. gold. This average will give magni-
exnense for raising and crushing of 15s. per
p. Clayton and Shuttleworth engine, lifting
Mr. ROBERT L. JACK, F.G.S., F.R.G.S., Government Geological Surveyor for Queensland, in bis
report to the Minister for Mines, says:—
“ I visited the workings in the ‘ Great Britain ’ Mine, which were being opened up hy cwnere
have recently taken possession. They were working at a depth of about 60 feet. The underlie o .
is about 60 degrees. The country is slate, which to the depth reached in the mine wMtnersrp ' je
breaks up in small angular pieces, so that to distinguish between bedding, cleavage, and ]omiv «*
almost Impossible. The hanging-wall iS distinct, but the foot-wall is never eertain. The { r os)
seven feet wide, and contains a good deal of quartz (showing a little mundic and some perexia^ oo
scattered through a ‘ gangue ’ of slate or debris. Gnashings from the mine have yielded 1
the ton.”
The report of Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR, late Field Geologist of Victoria, is appended:— , _ - the
‘“Great Britain.’—This lease of 6 acres lies to the northward of the town, on a
Sandy Creek. The eoumtry here is motamorphie slate. Near the south-east corner, tne i(Je # f
Hope ’ Beef oomes in with * nearly vertical dip and a strike of the B. 14 - 8. Oh the south-w “
the claim Is the ‘ Great Britain ’ Reef, 7 feet thick, dipping northerly at an angle of « . r eef*
pears as if the reef had opened since its formation, and another reef been formed, there hem* g ■■ g.
with a slioken-sldo (friction face) flucan vein showing vertical strike between them, and mpp ys pg8Srt
at an angle of 33'. The ‘Rose, Shamrock, and Thistle’ Reef, on the north side of,tae cm ’ her ».
through it. The hill is covered with quartz, from which prospects can bo easily should*
The above reefs must junction below, and will probably be rich then. The whole am, m
in my opinion, be put through the battery, and would be found to yield good returns.
The General Mining Manager, Mr. SAMUEL J. PEEK, in his last report upon the “ Great Bii
Lease, writes as follows Idg froS
“ The reef is very large. At 150 feet on the underlie the lode widens out to 13 and ye ,
_____ oul w wnrk the GrT®’
7 dwt. to 33d wt. per ton, and, I believe, increases in size and richness as sunk upon, ro wo
Britain ’ Reef to best advantage a battery should be erected on the ground, whica com j( be iBX
taehed to the new 13 h.p. Clayton and Shuttlcworth’s engine, on the lease. The winding S* 1
cut down to make room for a double truck way and pump. A very good set or doumo w t ura
and pump in course of erection. This mine is thought very highly of on the field, ana pro
Atif nmll * **
out well.
Mr. HUGH MOSMAN, one of the original discoverers of Charters Towers Goldfield, in reporting
this property, writes as follows- to pay wel1,
“This is a small hill, composed of a mass of gold-bearing reefs in slate. This
should have a crushing plant erected as near as possible to the reefs, where it isassu™^^ r0IU Td*>
can be obtained for same. The ground is easily worked, and crushings have yielded mi/
to 1 oa. to the ton of stone.


THE YOUNG ST. PATRICK.
I.ease N». 303. Area, 8a. 2r. 9^p.—This mine is situated a little to the north of the celebrated “ St.
Patrick ” block, which up to the present has paid about £170,000 in dividends. At one time it returned
£3000 per fortnight to the fortunate proprietors. It is generally admitted that the “ St. Patrick ” block,
"Mvsterr,” “Dan OConnell,’ and the ‘Young St. Patrick” form one and the same reef. The “Dan
O'Connell ” is expected to yield 8 oz. per ton. The “Mystery” is let on tribute and is paying well, one
crushing of 1000 tons returning over 2000 oz. gold. The General Mining Manager reports tnat the 90 feet
downright shaft on the Young St. Patrick” has passed through two reefs, one a brown lode, corn-
nosed of oxide of iron and quartz, the other a mundic reef. The latter has been struck quite recently,
and will be quickly opened out. The same reef nearer the surface gave 2oz. per ton. Another shaft
further to the east is now down 150 feet, and cannot be far off the “St. Patrick” lode. THB
MACHINERY consists of a splendid 10 h.p. portable engine and boiler (Clayton and Shuttleworth) and
double winding gear, erected between the two shafts, so that the same engine may wind from both.
Mr. E-L. JACK, the Government Geologist, speaks of the “ St. Patrick ” as “ one of the richest reefs
of the Held,” and furthermore says it is distinguished by an unusual width of gangue.
Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR, late Field Geologist for Victoria, in his Special Mining Report, writes as
follows:—
“This lease—No. 303, named ‘Young 8t. Patrick’—consists of 10 acres, and is situated near the
racecourse, to the north-east of the township. Three shafts have been sunk on the south side of the
around, the new or whip shaft being 110 feet deep on to the Columbia Reef. The strike of this reef is
N. 35' w., and its dip E. 25'N. at an angle of 35'; but this is variable, as the reef seems to undulate or
roll. It is % feel thick. Below this reef again is the ‘ Mystery,’ and probably the ‘ Rise and Shine ’ or
‘North Star. Between the old and new shafts the stone assayed from 14oz. up to 28oz. gold per ton.
The reef is rather variable in thickness, cutting out and making again, and the stone is highly
mineralised. At the south-east corner of the lease is a permanent waterhole, on Mosman’s Creek.
Workings on the north side of the lease (outside) give an average of 3oz. gold per ton. This property is
one of the best on the field, and I can strongly recommend it.*’
**Mr. HUGH MOSMAN, In his report, writes as follows:—
“ This lease is situated In the centre of a lot of reefs which have yielded from 7dwt. to 6oz. to the
ton of quartz. The Columbia,’ ‘Mystery,’ and ‘ St. Patrick ’ run through the ground, and as it is easy
to work compared to many others on the field in the matter of sinking and driving, on the different
reefs, It should prove a profitable mine to the owners on future development. A portion of the lease
includes a splendid water site for a crushing plant, and, of course, It will pay better by having such a
plant in connection wnh It. An adjoining claim is now raising 2oz. stone, and has for some time past
paid the shoreholders handsomely.”
NORTH AUSTRALIAN.
Lease No. 322. Area, 10 acres.—This reef is portion of the first prospecting claim ever taken up on
the goldfield. The mam shaft is now down 430 feet. Crushlngs hitherto have given 3oz. to the ton, and
when mundic is cut at about 450 feet, very rich crushlngs may be expected.
Mr. NORMAN TAYLOR reports as follows on this particular property:—
“The reef known as the ‘ North Australian’appears to be a cross c urge to the celebrated ‘Day
Dawn’ line of reef. The North Australian’ was the first line of reef opened on the Towers. The
three adjoining claims to the south-east have been very rich, over £35,000 of gold having* been taken
from Lease No. 289, and over £40,000 from Lease No. 161 (Mosman’s original prospecting claim). An
however s wlfhin ? % direction of east 30' north, at an angle of 40\ which,
north-west anile oftl.e/“M 111 35 feet of the surface. The shaft Is 3 chains south-east of the
? e ° e fumferlvTg inthe w „ e8t , 10 * S ‘ ¥ chainfl from the ab ove shaft “another
£nengine towork theS 8 >5tSttaUlJ?P pet head8 ’ f ° rffe ’ C ” are erected on the *™und, ready for
Manager of the above properties is appended
stone from the 400 feet level) and , Mining Company (whloh is now turning out 5oz. mundlc
field; and has S working Iver since %here f^ a r.?f whicti '! a8 taken up by the discoverers of the
300 feet, when a good soft form , was \ tte or “° stone struck in our shaft to a depth of
430 feet, the formattrataA® 1 sunk upon. At the bottom.
THE WASHINGTON.
ing gear could be procured. This has now been done the water cfrained^ff 1 P k *? p “
raised. Crushing should be commenced in August, and good dividends may bo confidlntly^ected. 11 *
The following is a comprehensive report received from the Mining Manager, Mr. S. J, PEEK:-
“The Washington is one of the first reefs discovered on the field, and was worked bv Messrs Mn«
man and party, the discoverers of Charters Towers Goldfield, in 1872. The first stone treated
from the cap of the reef, and yielded 5 oz. of gold per ton; several largo of gtone
above the water level yielded from 1 to 8 oz. to the ton. Below the waterlevlv?ry little work has
been done, as the water was too heavy for a whip; and until quite recently no miihmerv wM in thf
ground. At present there are two, winding and pumping engines working on the north en/o7 tee lode
known as the Alexandra Gold Mining Compamy, and the oteer on this Ease, at the south end of tee
lode. The ground between the two is being worked by private parties. The Alexandra has turned out
a large quantity of gold. I cannot give the amount, but I know that about £80M wm naid In
a .few cr Q u8 . 1 ? i , n H er8 ’ h u eto J° pr ,^ 8 ?. nt Company purchased the mine. tee betto? part
of the lode, as all the shoots ol gold-bearing stone are dipping south, and must nass through
ground. Two shoots of stone, yielding from 2 to 5 oz. per ton, were worked to the water leiel
0Q e ot which I struck 20 feet south of*the 108-feet downright shaft. The level is 30 feet into the shoot’
which is from 1 to 2 feet, and shows gold freely. The lode is very strong under foot; if it continues
down, the next sink will turn put a large quantity of stone. THE MACHINERY consists of om
class order 1 ® b ° i er ’ 006 8Ct of trIction winding-gear, and a jack-head pump, all new, and in flrat-
Mr. MOSMAN, in reporting on this property, writes as follows:—
“ From the surface to the water level very rich crushings, yielding over 5oz, to the ton, have been
obtained in the prospecting claim, and this was one of the original prospecting claims granted to the
discoverers of the field, and preferred by them to other reefs nearer the main mass of reefs owing to
the large amount of quartz and gold visible on the surface.” K lu
TITLE.
"There is the usual Government lease for each property—originally having twenty-one years to run
-subject to a yearly rental of £1 per acre.
n . purchasing these properties the Syndicate derives peculiar advantages, inasmuch as it takes
possession at a time when all the serious dead word and heavy expenditure are at an end. It may be
osimmted that over £18,000 has been spent in dead work development and machinery alone before at-
P re * en t results. Each lease Is now supplied with pumping and raising gear (steam) of the most
modern and labour-saving description. Briefly, the matter stands thus
* Washington.—On good gold, sufficient in itself to pay satisfactory dividends. Eight men are now
engaged breaking down stone.
... Great Britain. —On a grand reef, 12 feet wide, which will pay regular dividends immediately
ouirapers are attached ta the engine now erected. This can be effected in a few weeks.
Australian.—A very large amount has been expended on this property before arriving at
Wv 1 ; iQvch Nice mundic leaders are now showing, and the manager expects to cut the very rich reef
tinr.— ln ad J° ln lng blocks has made the fortunes of many. It is just possible the managers expecta-
inini n °f k* realised for a considerable time, and this doubt constitutes the usual speculation of
yield^fortune" 186 ' Tlj6 report of the mana ger is conscientiously given, and if the reef is cut it should
nnnfVT oung st - Patrick.—Very nearly the same remarks apply to this lease, with the exception that it
? Gveral reefs which are more or less payable. The No. 1 South gave recently 907oz. from 295
18 ° earl y a certainty that the famed ‘ St. Patrick ’ lode will be struck in this lease which means
biD-si ” <A g I 111 ® i1000 Per week. As a matter of fact it is not struck, and therefore the assumption of
tiong’’ end8 from this particular source can only come within the province of speculative caloula-
AurwiV 1 t ll e foregoing may be readily gathered that the yields of “ Young St. Patrick” and “ North
w»r£o a V an x. ar ° in futtvro, but that the present prospects of “ Washington” and “Great Britain” mines
minin 1 a oooof in steady dividends to the shareholders. The claims can be easily managed by one
th«T manager with a working overseer to each mine. Thus by a sysi
Washington” and “ Great Britain” mines
le claims can be easily managed by one
thn hoa wjlu a wonting overseer lu eacn mine, xnus by a system of economic management—
tho .T , telephonic and electric communication with the different leases—abundance of skilled labour,
thfl flhaol 1 WLUIX1 UUXOUtlUU M i til tuo U1UD1 vUt iCOOVO tvUUll Ua UbU U1 OAllltU luUUUI t
dip.!* r li.t®. ®onn©ctlon by railway of the goldfields and port, and last but not least, the existence of a
refinu« IOrttllf^“ tly Une of steamships between London and Townsville (the port for Charters Towers),
InatHn 11147 expected which in a short time should satisfy the most sanguine expectations. As
quoted two Companies formed to work the (now celebrated) Day Dawn lino of reef,
th ®jN°rth Australian. The first, with a capital of £*,000, has already paid £138,399 in dlvl-
few 1878 V the other, also having a contributing capital of £24,000 in £1 shares, struck a
the “5*° (June) the reef, which was over 9 feet wide, and snowing an estimated yield of 3oz. to
6 The shares are now salable at £10!
Terms of Payment
p 0r * a °k full share, will be £20 on application, £130 on allotment, and the balance (£250) by
tOfflisaory note at four months* date, without interest. Application will also be enter-
tained for Quarter Shares (£100), £50 cash, and £50 promissory note at four months.
General Remarks.
Little as Charters Towers, Ravenswood, Thornborough, and other North Queensland Goldfields are
known outside their own immediate neighbourhood, they arc destined in a short space of time to
become important factors In the earth’s "production of gold.
Instanclngthe present position of Charters Towers alone, the Senior Gold Warden of Queensland,
Mr, P. F. SELHEIM, in a recent report tost he Government, writes in the following strain
“ With a wider acquaintance and more mature experience of goldfields under my charge, I have
not seen anything that would make me alter in one single point the predictions, thkt I expressed in mjl
last report with regard to the future of Charters.Towers. Givermho capital and the rational manage-
ment required to convert much ground hithertdJneglected here into handso/nely paying concerns—the
feasibility of which no competent person'will deny for a moment—and the output of cold will be
double before long, with the natural sequence of twice the numberMp well-to-do population.”
During last, year, ten claims (out of mam) crushed 32,3$} tons of Quartz for a yield of" 43,406oz. gold,
and since the discovery of this field a few years back,‘gold to the value qf £3,573,298 has been accounted
for by the Government escort alone, exclusive of a very largo-amount taken awav by private hands.
These brief statistics speak for themselves, and if such extraordinaryi results could be obtained with
limited local capital and indifferent appliances for saving gold, it does not require the gift of prophecy
to picture the future prospects of Charters Towers.
geoiogists-Mr. ROBERT L. JACK (Geological Surveyor forlfQueensland), Mr.
NORMAN TAYLOR (late Field Geologist for Victoria), and the Rev. J. EL.TENISON-WOODS-are
unanimous in their opinion as to the permanency of this field ; while Mrl Norman Taylor, in his special
report upon the different claims of this company, concludosvthus ; —
“ The reefs are true mineral lodes, and will be lasting ones. There can be no doubt as to the great
value of the properties Inspected by me.”
The operations of the company are not merely based upon speculative research after narrow rich
veins, but comprise sound enterprise and true commercial mining in the working of large permanent
lodes of gold-bearing quartz.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
will be received by the Secretary of the North Queensland Investment Company (83 Pitt-street.
opposite Bank of New Zealand), under whose auspices this Company is brought out.
The following Brokers are empowered tu receive applications Shares
Messrs. Sotjtar & Hoare, 143 Pitt-street;
Messrs. Clarke & Co., 77 Pitt-street, Sydney, and 88
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
OVER THIRTY SHARES HAVE ALREADY BEEN APPLIED FOR, AND THE tTST WILL
BE FINALLY CLOSED ON OR BEFORE n
Wednesday, the 15th August*


READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life,
hop bitters
ARK
The Purest and Best
Medicine erer made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buclin, mandrake, and Dandelion.
“The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in tho World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being 1 the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Aged
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease e»
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don't
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
* a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
“ Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘ purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. 8
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
543, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— I respectfully beg Rave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, ridiift
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor brsees,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit tho corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
EVERY
MAM
SHOULD
READ
n. uimrs si* * ,h ;
1 A valuable book, De’wntf.
era from Nervous mill rewilt-
' Mental Decay and all „r
Intr from Excesses
.Overwork, are:
rvuu* Sc Impotent Be* 1
WITHOUT STO
,lore<l >*
Weak, nervous .V Impotent nen^.
, VIGCB, HEALTH ARE
Consultation and Book tree. f.
UAESTON EEMEBT Oo., 369
SYnOSLEY.
L T BITTERS
1REAT CURE FOR
*ESS, LIVER COMPLAINT,
NESS, &t.
RICE.
28. W.
OB
y A. G. KEBBLBWHTT
43 ERSKINB
by W. H. SOUL, and all Cheuus»
Mr. W. Stanley has undertaken to finish
Packer’s “ David.” Those who knew Packer,
know also that Mr. Stanley was the deceased com-
posers frequent collaborateur, and worked
with him even on his magnum opus “The
Crown of Thorns.” It is well for humanity
—for its progress, education, enlightenment—
that, when a great master dies, and sometimes
before, there are always scores to take his place
and “finish” any fragments he may have about him
or left behind. It doesn’t matter how small the
morsel is, they are prepared to fix something on to
it. Thppcr started to complete “Christabel,”
while Reynolds gave us “Pickwick Abroad”—
one of the most remarkable works of recent times.
There are few village stonemasons who would not
be prepared to fix a arm on Milo’s Venus,
while the completion <f “Don Juan,” “Edwin
Drood,” and “Civilization in England,” may be
confidently predicted. There is but one real draw-
back to these complements. They not only finish
the fragments, but they finish the public. There
is another Stanley who is a finisher also. He sailed
down the principal African stream and gave the
niggers there the biggest treat they’ve had for
many a day. And now, regarding his Australian
namesake and poor Packer’s “David,” our candid
advice is “ Off, Stanley, off !”
Twenty-four hours under water, the Lon-
donderry editor’s prescription to remedy Ireland’s
woes, is just the sort of recipe that, promptly
acted on. would cure the Sydney Hospital Direc-
toral Board. The thing might be done by inviting
the crowd to a free lunch down the harbour, and
then treating them to a touch ot Carrier’s “ vertical
deportation;” in short, to a noyade. Until that
Board is burst up or sunk down somehow, Sydney
Hospital is bound to continue the disgrace it is.
William Tongue was a lunatic. He escaped
from the Ararat (Vie.) asylum in 1881. and was only
captured a few days ago by Constable O’Shaugh-
nessy. Considering the privations he has had to
suffer since then, he was a lunatic to escape. The
local paper says: “Except when under the influ-
ence of liquor, he is a harmless individual.” He is
not the only one of the family to whom the re-
mark replies. When in court, the free play of
William’s limbs were impeded by means of a stout
rope. To the magistrate’s question, the constable
stolidly answered that the prisoner was Tongue-
tied.
Some years ago, a certain N.S.W. Judge
tried a prisoner who was found guilty. The
moment after the delivery of the verdict, His
Honor began something like this:—“ You have a
, shocking face, prisoner. I am sure you are a very
f bad man. It was my oplniop when first I saw you
this morning that you were a very bad man. I
was sure I had seen you, and tried you, and sen-
fenced you before. I therefore had telegrams
sent during your trial, and uoav I find that my im-
pression A\ T as correct” Here the prisoner, ad-
dressing the jury and spectators, interposed: “ The
Judge says I’m a very bad man. But what a bad
old man he must be himself, considering that I can
see by his face he is going to give me a heavy sen-
tence and ho hasn’t yet asked me Avhether I’ve got
anything to say Avhy sentence should not be pro-
nounced ” His Honor (who Avas always a great
stickler for technical observances): “ I beg your
pardon, prisoner.” The prisoner spoke, and then
the Judge “ rubbed It in ” properly.
Originality is not alAvays appreciated.
From Chinchilla (Q ) there is a cattle train to Bris-
bane, starting before daylight. The other day, the
engineer started Avith such previousness that it
Avas not till he got to Warra, 34 miles, he discovered
that only three trucks of the train were hooked
on. Like “ Beautiful Child,” he had gone
“ Gliding on up a shining track,
Like the morning star, which ne’er looks back,”
and hadn’t noticed that eleven trucks and a mad
guard had been left standing at Chinchilla plat-
form. Guided by a slavish adherence to rules of
red-tape, he would have roused tho stationmaster
from bed, set to telegraphing, Avritten a report,
and, in fact, raised Cain in th a way of fuss. But
he didn’t do anything of the sort. He just
crammed on every pound of steam the old tea-
caddy would carry, and started back the 34 miles,
and, Avhen a mile from Chinchilla, met the missing
trucks coming out behind aspecial engine. It Avas
only a single line; but he Avas Avidc awake this
time, and an all-Avise Providence, backed up by a
strong application of brakes, just slopped a col-
lision. Yet, instead of being made a C.M.G., that
driver has been suspended, and they talk of sack-
ing him. Original genius is always throAvn aAvay
“ in the Government.”
In the criminal courts of N S. W. 6000 per-
sons are annually acquitted. It is commonly sup-
posed that, during their incarceration atvaiting
trial, people are treated Avith every consideration;
that no unnecessary, much less offensive, restric-
tions are imposed on them: that they are treated
as “innocent” until the foreman of the jury as-
sures them that they are not, and tho judge punc-
tuates the assurance Avith penal servitude. This is
the popular supposition. UetAveen it and the
reality there is abour. the same resemblance that
there is between a Avoman’s opinion of a man a
month before and a month after marriage, or be-
tween a soldier’s life in reality and the picture of it
presented by a smart recruiting sergeant to the
gaping yokel. In N.S.W., at all events, it would be
sate to say that, of 6000 persons acquitted last year,
there was not one who was not subjected to indig-
nities wholly unnecessary. Indignities gratui-
tous, unmeaning, supererogatory. They were
not fed properly, and, although friends were
allowed to supplement the menu, this only
emphasized the injustice to the strangers and the
poor among them. Instead of having a variety of
books to while the dull hours away, they have to
content themselves with the well-thumbed semi-
religious literature which has driven many an un-
fortunate within sight of the border-line of
dementia. He is oven deprived of the newspapers,
and locked up when he would fain walk about, and
turned out to walk when he is anxious to lie down.
They do these things a good deal better in America,
There, a man is not even put in the dock except he
is violent. Here, a case occurred the other day
which demands more than a passing notice. In a
country court, a man was placed in the dock and
acquitted. Yet all the time he was there he wore
irons. He made no resistance: he was not obstre-
perous. It is now lor the Minister of Justice to
examine all the facts surrounding this occurrence.
But he should not stop there. The whole question
of the treatment of prisoners before trial is one
that calls for immediate attention.
Awakened.
Immersed in thought, I strayed away,
1 know not where, through woodlands wild,
Such visions weird the time beguiled;
1 guessed not if ’twere night or day.
My voice was hushed, my brain was still,
My cheek felt not the zephyr's kiss;
The seraph’s song, the serpent’s hiss—
Could not my heart inflame or chill.
I listened for my living breath,
Yet came not e’en the faintest sound;
I gazed with stricken face around,
And wondering, thought—can this be Death ?
I placed my hand upon my breast,
And bent in momentary prayer;
Then flew a fathom in the air—
I’d gat upon a gojur’e nest.
J.B.P.
Changes came to Mrs. Gouvernante. For a while,
for the space of half a dozen years, she had floated
happily down the stream of life. Music was plen-
tiful, and sunlight was plentiful, and in sleep she
could dream of Paradise, and, when she woke, she
> ad not to weep over the dreariness of the substi-
tute. But her husband died, and the stream of li fe
grew turbid, and the music grated with discords,
and the sun rose late and sank early, and only
when she slept did she forget that the world was
cold and that her battle was fierce. She instructed
pupils in the piano, and roared her two young
daughters as best she could In a quiet street in
Kensington. Time rustled on, and children grew
and furrows came, till Lilly, the younger, was 12,
and Kissie, the elder, was 1>5; and then bad health
came rushing down the street In Kensington, and
the house became colder, and the outlook sadder.
It was remembered that out in the Southern seas,
down in the pastoral plains on the edge of the
tropics, there were friends of the early years, and
the memory, coming in on a time of bootless
struggle and among the shadows of crowding
despairs, was laid hold of by the tired mother, was
clung to, and was worked up into a vision of new
hopes.
Do you remember her in Brisbane ? Still she
was teaching music. The friends who had quick-
ened her will, were dead when she got out. Of
course. That is always the way. If the world is
ever going hard with one, Providence is sure to
stop in with its scourge and give the unfortunate
a lick on the other side. Anybody who has been
unfortunate can swear to that. But, withal,
Brisbane was a better field than the quiet
street in Kensington. Not each and every-
body knows how to make noise on the
piano In Brisbane, and so she was able to
get a moderate-sized class of pupils about her.
Kissie, too, was by this time a good performer, and
under her the junior scholars started riots of sound
that made the villa ring. All did not pay, however.
House-rent was high, and comforts dear; and it
became apparent, after a while, that mother could
do all that wanted to be done, and ocoupa'ion for
Kissie was anxiously prayed for. One morning
the advertisement came before them;—
“ Wanted, a Governess for a squatter’s family.
Eldest chilli 10 years. English, French, Music.
Address O.P., care Gordon and Gotc'a.”
Kissie applied. A month of silence ensued. A
letter came accepting the application, and offering
iitO for one year’s services, stating that, at the end
of that period, the purpose was to send the child-
ren to school. Miss Kissie was asked to sail imme-
diately for Rockhampton, where she would be
mot and conducted to the station.
“ Where is Pine Grove ?” asked the mother, i n
her first feeling of glad surprise. “That is the
name of the station. And such a queer name as
he has, ‘ C. P. Fleece I’ It is a man’s writing.”
The terms, however, were good, and it was
dangerous to delay, so she went at once to Messrs.
Gordon and Gotch, and asked the agents where
Pine Grove was, what sort of place they thought
it, and what kind of man C. P. Fleece was. Agents
never know much about the sentimental part of a
transaction, and so she returned a littla improved
geographically, but with as scant a knowledge of
the household at Pine Grove as when she started
out.
The boat left next day for Rockhampton, and,
after an exhausting performance of the duties of
leave-taking, Kissie Gouvernante embarked.
'The steamer had no sooner left the harbour than
the mother regretted the precipitancy with which
she had acted. She realised, all at once, that she
knew nothing at all of C. P. Fleece, only that he
was a squatter in the inaccessible Never Never.
She became perplexed, frightened. She consulted
the Rev. C. Jones. Ho did not know C. P. Fleece,
but sagely shook his head. She thought of wiring
to Rockhampton to tell her daughter to break the
engagement and return, but In the eddy of her
thoughts, and the undecisiveness of her advisers,
the day passed and she had to fall back upon the
bosom of a vague trust.
In a month she got a letter from Kissie. Kissie
told a plain, unvarnished tale. The station of Pino
Grove was a very big one, the station-house a
fairly substantial one ; she had charge of two little
girls, “sweet-tempered, quiet little things,” whose
mother had been dead two years. Mr. Fleece was
a rather rough, middle-aged man, who swore
among his cattle and drank a good deal of brandy.
Two black gins attended to the kitchen, and an old
housekeeper, very deaf and very stupid, was the
only other woman under the roof.
Mrs. Gouvernante ran with the letter to the Rev.
C. Jones. Ho shook his head more sagely than
ever, and reminded her of the time he shook it
before. Three or four others became interested in
the sad affair. They brought clippings from the
papers, showing what the fate of unsuspecting
girls had been in similar cases. Such a world, such
a world! The treachery of those moneyed villains 1
How they do pray upon the necessities of the poor I
“ WJjat is worst,” said the Rev. C. Jones, “is that
in circumstances such as your daughter describes,
the help of religion is not obtainable. No church,
no worship—man left in his natural state, away
from the restraints of civilization, away from the
effects of good example, a mere beast of rapine,
whisky-drinking, blaspheming and lawlessness on
all sides—ah, ray dear Mrs. Gouvernante, yourself
and your daughter acted very rashly! Induce her
to come back quickly.”
The mother wrote.
Another month passsed, and no letter came.
Another month, and still no letter. The mother
sobbed herself to sleep at night, and prayed wildly
tor help in the day. The Rev. C. Jones shook and
shook—not his head only, but his hands also.
Another month and no letter !
You can likely tell th® sequel, dear reader. You
are quite sure that Kissie Gouvernante was
trapped and soiled, decoyed into the wild bush and
devoured by a monster. If you have been brought
up among the conventionalities of a fictitious and
insincere society, if you have lived in the atmo-
sphere of a pruriently suspicious religious element,
if you have drunk in fully all the knowledge of
the human heart which Is the spiritual pabulum of
the city Sunday, yopmustknowp, that C. P. Fleece
did what so many of you In the cities would do if
MISS KISSIE GOUVERNANTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
you could, and tho simple Kissic has gone down
with her white mantle all sullied and her young
life all blackened !
But, if you have lived in the free bush where
men drink and SAvear among cattle, where the sun
is hot and the air is fresh, where tho murky sus-
picions of an OA'er-sensive refinement have no
place, Avhere men don’t believe a bit in the in-
herent depravity of the human heart, and Avhere
they seldom hear the lessons of sainted sinners,
you Avill likely think that Kissio got on all right at
Pine Grove, and that the letters missed because the
mailbags are always getting lost out there.
Bead this.
“ My dearest Mamma,—
“ Get ready. We are going doAvn. Flora
and Angela are coming Avith mo. Mr. Fleece
is going to England.
“Kissie.
And in a month down they came. And C. P.
Fleece drove them from the raihvay to the villa,
and as he threAv his legs across in the chair in the
little parlour, you could hear him shouting at the
top of his voice, “ See here, old woman, Kissie is a
regular little brick. I’d trust the youngsters to no
one but you and her Avhile I’m aAvay. I’m going
home for a year or so. Get a bigger house, old
lady, get a bigger house, and open a ladies’ school.
That’s the tip. There’s my tAVO to begin with.
What! Expense! Furniture! Why, old lady, I’ll
stand it. D — it, I’ll see to it now.”
And one of the best ladies’ schools at present in
tho Queen of the Colonies is that of Mrs. and Miss
Gouvernante.
MRS. HAMPSON-THE REVIVALIST.


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA I’ LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from 1 ulfllllng their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will umte in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorate r. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these sym ntoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM'S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due 1 o a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Ceorg . e street, Sydney.
K
"ONEY LOANS (1 RANTED at moderate inte-
rest on Furniture (without possession),
Bonds, Certlfloates, Shares, or other Secu-
rities, payable to suit convenience.
No Deduction made from amount Required,
which will be paid in f ull within twelve hours of
application.
MONT DE PIETE CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 CASTLn BAQH STREET,
One door South of King Street.
WORKING CLASSES,
GENERATE YOUR OWN GAS.
Appljto KEELV . AND CO.,
71 Qoulbum-street, Sydney.
Dealers in Portable Gas, Gasallers, Lamps, and
Fluid. Comfort, Economy, and Safety.
Mr. Keely, on behalf of the Patent Portable Gas
Co., had charge of the lighting of the hall and
supper rooms at the Hay Demonstration, and the
lighting of Croydon Station. He undertakes to
teach his customers in three minutes the mode of
lighting.
A liberal discount wil I be given to storekeepers
on remittances per orders, and goods forwarded
with quick despatch. Orders and remittances to
be sent to the above address. No orders attended
to without remittance.
LIST OF PRICES:
4 Light Gasaller 70s
3 do do 50s
2 do do 35e to 46a
Wall bracket lamp, burn 16 hours.. 17s 6d
db do 9 do .. 15s
Table lamps, 2 branch 60s
do 1 do 45s
Brass Brackets 40s
All Globes and Fittings .. .. 5e extra
Fluid, in cases, 8 gal 2s 6d per gal
1 gal. fluid gives a light equal to 12s worth kero-
sene. Instructions as to tl c mode of lighting sent
to clients with despatch of goods.
Goods sent to all pa: ts of the Colonies.
EVERT DESCRIPTION OP FISHING TACKLE,
Wholesale and Retail.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE STREET.
V. E. ANGLE’S
(Late of 31 Market-street),
Fashionable Tailoring Establishment
636 GEORGE STREET,
Brickfield Hill.
A large and well-assorted stock of Tweeds and
coatings, direct from the manu facturers, always
on hand.
All Garments Out in the most Fashionable Styles.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
Note the Address—
636 George St., Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY.
m ERNEST CARTER,
Wardell Saw and Planing Mills,
RICHMOND RIVER.
leavpa nH. Til ?, b n r 18 thoroughly seasoned before It
these Mills, and is very light for carriage
up-country, and fit for immediate use.
PINE, CEDAR, BEECH, FLOORING, LINING.
Mouldings, Architraves. The Trade only Supplied.
A. GORMAN.
Late of the Telegraph Hotel, Inverell,
HAS OPENED THE
4 Cla,re:n.ca.o:EX,’
Comer of ELIZABETH & PARK Streets,
And which he intends to keep as a flrst-olass Hotel,
?‘J? ope8 ’., b y 8tr ict attention to Business, to
win fl^ ar . e u° f their patronage. V isitOrs
Hotwtc * surpasses most of the leading
VENnwm? r ACCOMODATION and every CONl
miiHf r^ CB ’ n nd ’ 88 ’t overlooks HYDE PARK, It
must necessarily be WELL VENTILATED.
SUITES of ROOMS for FAMILIES,
as per agreement.
HOT and COLD WATER BATHS.
PORTER in Attendance Day and Night.
v?x^°tneoes8irj
toriteiib?i > St?t- n °t? d throughout* th
nothing but the very best.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
1&~ THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a,t\xrecL
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents forN.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL 'MERCHANDISE, 4
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO. 3 DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It la bottled in bond for Ex,, rt at the Distillery.
Dublin, and consumers may, t ref ore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.8.W. and Queensland.
H
Y D H O PATH Y.— MR. JOSEPH REEVE!
Hydropathic Physician.
An Infallible System of Purification for the Cure
of Coughs, Colds Acute or Chronic Indigestion, Con-
stipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Paralysis, Liver
Complaint, Skin Eruptions, or any other Inflam-
matory Diseases. All persons who are suffering,
and weary of using physic, and hopeless, are in-
vited to adopt this Hygiene System. A few weeks’
treatment will suffice for nearly every case.
Ladies and Children attended to. In-door Patients
received at the Establishment, Terms oa
application.
“ Throw physic to the dogs, I’ll none of it.”—
Shakfspf a RF
“Purification in the old law did save life.” Milton.
Address :
8 Royal Terrace*,Nicholson Street,
FITZROY, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY & [MELBOURNE
COFFEE PALACE,
231 GEORGE STREET NORTH.
JOHN JOHNSON, Proprietor.
TTA YING opened the above, the Proprietor has
* supplied a want long felt in Sydney. The
first floor contains spacious Ladies and Gentle-
men’s Dining and Drawing Rooms, also Suites and
Single Bedrooms (viz., 45 bedrooms), will be open
shortly. A trial solicited.
CALL AND INSPECT.
THOMAS MUNRO,
heraldic artist and engraver,
PLAIN AND FANCY STATIONER,
10 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
A Large and varied assortment of Letter Books.
Account Books, and all office requisites. Purses.
Albums, Plush Bags, and Reticules; Artists’ Mate-
rials, Photo, and Picture Frames, Illuminated
Scripture and other texts. Birthday, Condolence,
and Memorial Cards.
Agent for August Huenerbein for Pianos, Or-
gans, and Music. The Engraving workshop being
under my own management, I feel confident in
suiting the public taste.
E W ° h F AND SON,
,• , Manufacturers of
Black Lead Pencils, Drawing Chalks, Crayons,
Artists Materials, and Stationers’ Sundries.
Makers, by appointment, to Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment and the Bank of England.
Office and Warehouse: 53 Great Queen-street,
Lmcoin ai Inn Fields, W.c. Factory: Falcon Pencil
Works, Battersea, London, S.W. A full set of
samples can be seen, and further particulars ob-
tained, on application to
E. B. WOLFF (Sole Agent for N.S.W.), care of
Messrs. Feldheim, Gotthelf and Co., 30 Hunter-
street, Sydney.
A LOT AT SPRINGSIDE
£1 DEPOSIT, £1 PER MONTH.
FORTUNATUS FINANCIAL, LAND, AND
INVESTMENT COMPANY,
3 1 7 PITT STREET,
Near Temperance Hall.
EASTWAYBROTHERS,
WIRE WORKERS,
WISH to call your attention to WIRE GOODS
we make and have in stock as under :—
FLOWER STANDS, for holding flowers in pots,
made of iron and wire, handsomely framed and
bronzed, suitable for rooms, halls, balconies, ver-
t. . o , conservatories. Also, WIRE FERN
BASKETS, all sizes and prices.
SIEVES and SCREENS, for screeulng lime,
gravel, coal, &c., all meshes, from 1 hole to 100
holes to the squares inch.
WIRE LATTICE-WORK, for protection of win-
dows from breakage caused by hail-storms or boys’
throwing stones. Also, WIRE NETTING, all sizes,
from 12 in. to 72 in. wide.
CAGES of every description, for canaries and
parrots, singly or in nests, suitable for store-
keepers.
And every description of WIRE WORK made on
the premises.
EASTWAY, BROTHERS,
413 GEORGE-STRBET.
Illustrated Catalogues on application.
THE TRADE SUPPLIED.
IF your Chemist or Grocer cannot or will not
-r .^° U ,. “ PAINLESS CORN
tiiiiLIEVBR, write direct to the Registered Pro-
prietor. who will forward a bottle to aU parts of
Australasia, Post Free, for 3s. 6d.
Address:—JOHN CLOWES,
One Mile Creek, Gym pie.
ESTABLISHED 1837.
FOWLER’S POTTERY and
BRICKWORKS,
CAMPERDOWN, NEAR SYDNEY.
Price List on application.
fTIHE FEDERAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA
T . , (Limited)
Incorporated under Act of Parliament.
CAPITAL, £1000,000 ; SUBSCRIBED, £665,000.
mu tt . Directors ;
W H e Fidr n An' Brodribb, M.L.C., Chairman.
Robert Humphery. Esq.,
Manager ; F. J ' P ‘
Accountant: John Docker.
Solicitors : Messrs. Robertson, Fisher, and Ralfe.
Temporary Banking House. 257 George-street,
North, with branch at the Haymarket.
andTn Euro^ d A * encies throughout the Colonies
Highest rates of interest given on Deposits, and
sunjsss 6u8,ne “ * r,n “ ct<i5 wi£h “ t
F# 8. MACDERMOTT, Manager.
IV. H. Ariel I and Co/s Agencies.
SWALLOW & ARTELL’S prize Biscuits, Canter-
bury, Normanby, and Christmas Family Cakes,
Buddings, Mincemeat, Self-raising
grated Flour, Infant’s Food, Treacle and
Golden Syrup.
EXCELSIOR MILLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal and Pearl Barley.
■“DILLON & BURROWS’ prize assorted Confec-
I tionery.
J. KITCHEN & SONS, No. 1 Mottled and Toilet
ooaps.
M KENZIE & CO.’S Coffee, Mustard, Cocoa,
Jrfj’Tw and ut) . ; dressed Rice,
and Patent Groats.
.HUNT & CO.’S Prize Baking Powders, Adelaide
Jams Paper Bags, &o.
343 and 345 KENT-9TREET, SYDNEY.
Coolalta Wine, Bodega,
MORT 8 PASSAGE, back of Messrs. W. H.
Paling and Co.’s.
Choicest Wines, by the glass or bottle, may be had
at the Bodega, Hot Spiced Wines during Winter
Open from 9 a.m. till 6 p.m.
DANCING.— Prof. WEST’S Classes. — Private
Lessons, Monday and Thursday mornings ;
afternoon classes, Thursdays. Evening; Beginners,
Mondays, 8 p.m.; Thursdays, 7.30 p.m.; Advanced,
8.30 p.m., at Tattersall’s New Hall, Hunter-street.
Second term now commencing. During present
school holidays there will be time for private
lessons in new waltz, &c. 251 Elizabeth-street.
The Dancing Academy being the largest in
Sydney, there are now vacancies, quarter dating
from entrance.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
be undertaken by the above
horiz P ontil, upto re “* 8iZed h0le8> Vertlcal ° r
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT.
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE,
f,Huf„S om ? an E’ in a11 cases, will And their own
no ohifr^rJr tei I for drilling purposes, and will make
nlnntonH f °r lossof diamonds or wear and tear on
P ’ and a * BO P rovi de workmen engineers, &c.
w 6 \f w duplex barrel, introduced into the
charge J - Co * hlan - will be used free of
argc to persons searching for minerals.
tica['knnwmH has e 7fl 7 confidence, from his prae-
beahle t^ dgG of th f Diamond flrlll, that he will
desDateh o'n Re 5 0ItLl satisfaction, as well us quick
aespatch to all ordeiB addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street,
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. tcm.
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
& CO.
Ar® the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week—2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash,
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
353 George-stroet.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company,
578 GEORGE STREET.
HT VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
Of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards,
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos! Pianos! Pianos!
FREE TRADE and NO MONOPOLY.
Live and Let Live, these are Our Mottoes.
It is a well-known fact that the Foundations o
Colossal Fortunes have been established upon the
Profits arising from the SALE OF PIANOS in this
City during the past Twenty Years by those
having little or no knowledge of the Construction
and Details of the Pianoforte. While giving the
Public the benefit of our Mr. Young’s 25 years’
Eersonal practical experience (5 years in John
roadwood and Sons, London, and 20 in N.S W )
we will, at the same time, be satisfied with a fair
percentage on the Co-operative Principle, sharing
the Profits with our Customers. We will sell from
25 per cent, loss than the same class of Instrument
can be Purchased at any Music Shop in Sydney,
and we will offer nothing for Sale we cannot
guarantee. American Organs at proportionately
low prices. Also a Large Stock of Kohn’s Cele-
brated Austrian Furniture, a single article of
which we are selling at Wholesale Prices.
Come and See Our LITTLE BEAUTIES in Wal-
nut and Full Iron Frame, at £25 cash, Bleswhere
£10 more, or under a Liberal Time Payment Sys-
tem.
George E. Young and Co.,
BSr 285 PITT STREET,
South of Royal Arcade.
BRAUN’S WALTHAM WATCHES.
TOOK FIRST PRIZE
And all the Gold Medals at every Exhibition.
MADE ESPECIALLY FOR
B. BRAUN,
Watchmaker, Jeweller, & Optician,
GEORGE STREET,
Near the Post Office.
The Largest Stock of Waltham Watches in Sydney
500 to select from.
Silver Walthams from £3 to £12
Gold Walthams from £8 to £46.
Warranted from two to seven years.
tST Only at B. BRAUN, 376 George Street
SHOET HOEN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
T KDLARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .—The
J-i drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon bo the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
THE HARWOOD
Fibre Chair Seating,
Possessing all the qualities of a perfect seat, viz. :
Strength, Durability. Ease, Beauty, Cleanliness
and Cheapness.
THIS CHAIR SEAT is made from the strongest
known fibres and a perfectly waterproof
cement, and after fifteen years’ constant use, we
can speak positively as to its merits. It cannot
split or check, neither will exposure to sun or min
affect it.
Awarded Gold Medal at the late Exhibition of the
Massachusetts Charitable Mechanic Association.
For RE-SEATING it is unrivalled. In every
house, store and office, are chairs with seats broken.
Any person can re-seat and make as good as new a
chair that is otherwise worthless, at a very trifling
expense.
FOR SALE BY THE TRADE FOR HOME USE.
Agents Wanted in Every District.
From £3 to £5 a week can be made by any smart
man or boy In his own neighbourhood.
NICHOLS & CO.,
GENERAL AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
82 CLARENCB|8TREET.
A
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS,
The only Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
ELREKA. Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Saywell’s Tohcco Co., Liiti.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
imitations.


Prepared according to the directions of p r0 f t
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
no danger can Attend its Use.
Great Relief by Its Use.
WINSLOW LEWIS, M.D.. of Boston, the distln-
guished and popular physician, said:
“Having in my ownjperson experienced those
ills for which the Acid Phosphate is prescribed, I,
having found great relief and alleviation by it*
use, most cheerfully attest my appreciation of ita
excellence.”
Indigestion and Bladder and Kidney
Troubles.
Portland, Me., Oct. 2nd, 1880.
Hereford’s Acid Phosphate has become a favour-
ite rem edy in my practice. When completely tired
out by prolonged wakefulness and overwork, It lg
of the greatest value to me. I have given it In
certain forms of dyspepsia, in all oases of nervous
exhaustion from overwork, in certain affections of
the bladder and kidneys, and have always been
satisfied with the results. I prescribe it more and
more as I become better acquainted with its pro-
perties. Of ail the samples of medicine sent me
during the past dozen years, Hereford’s AcldPhos-
phate is the only one I have ever found which has
become a necessity in my own household. Per-
haps I should hardly have been willing to write my
impressions of the Acid Phosphate if I had not
In my own person experienced its good effects.
0. O. FILES, M.D.
Derangement of Secretory and Nervous
Systems.
Rutland, Vt., Jan. 23,1879.
While I am exceedingly averse to glvmg certifl-
cates, and almost always decline to do so. yet in
the case of “Hereford's Acid Phosphate, 1 am
willing to say, that, having used It very consider-
ably, I can testify to its great value In functional
derangements of the secretory and nervous sys-
tems. CHA8. WOODHOUSB, M.D.
Pamphlets, with full Information as to the
wonderful curative properties of Horford’s Acid
Phosphate, furnished free on application to
BARRON, MOXHAM & CO., SYDNEY.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£o.g'ic Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm/’
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy It gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Brnises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an Internal remedy It tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp*
ttaerla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for Immediate use n
case of emergency, will often save a life or a loo*
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best Imported into this country, and hats
gained throughout the colonies such a hig
reputation. .
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected an
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stan
ard make ,
Because the iron-work consists of the very
steel and Norway iron, severely tested e
used j
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best «o.
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes
used lu their ti nish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under spe
Instructions to, and personal supervis'
one of the leading carriage builders in
and specially constructed for the A
climate thJ
And because all who use them say they
BUST.
American Carriage Emporium
WTNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY-
BARRON. MOXHAM^CO^
r THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £100,000.
Allow Interest as follows: —SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £50 in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
Mr. DeCoubct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pltt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Departments undertaken. Titles a
special ity.—A pvt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for 1
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Nowhere perhaps has the dentist’s art obtained
such high excellence as in Sydney. Certainly we
axe in no sense behind any other city. Visitors to
Sydney might, to test this, visit the establishment
of Messrs. Adolphe Gabriel and Company. 18 Wyn-
yard Square, two doors from Pfanlert s Hotel.
Hei-e the manufacture of every essential in the
Srof ession is carried on. At the rear of the surgery
i a compact little factory where all the requlsltee
for supplying every dental defect in the human
mouth are made. Messrs. Gabriel and Co. (whose
only address is as above) are always pleased to
show their specimens of artificial teeth to those
interested. There being two firms of the same
name in the Square, patients will oblige by paying
particular attention to the Christian name, Adolphe,
and the number, 18, two doors from Pfahlcrt’s
Hotel.— Ad vt.
P
UBLIC NOTICE.
J, TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Ob, TWO DOORS NORTH OP OLD SHOP
The marriage of Colonel Wellesley with
Kate Vaughan is already attracting considerable
attention in London Society. The heir presump-
tive to the historic earldom of Cowley is Colonel
H. Wellesley, but as he is unmarried, it. is on the
cards that the title and estates may revert to this
brother. This person will be remembed as the
Attachd appointed, in the face of some opposition,
to the British Embassy at Vienna. A little while
ago he was divorced trom his wife, daughter of
Lord Augustus Loftus, in consequence of the
giddy character of his relations with Kate Vaughan,
the well-known dans&use. Kate has now seceded
from the Gaiety, with the intention, it is said, of
proceeding on a tour to the country as an expo-
nent of new parts, but in the meanwhile her mar-
riage with Colonel Wellesley has been detimtely
arranged.
The other Sunday, -writes a correspondent,
Mr. Thomas Walker expatiated at the Melbourne
Opera House to a large assemblage on a starting
theme : “ Where’d we be if the world should
smash He disappointed some, inasmuch as his
discourse turned out to be simply an arjumentum
ad hominem-a contention that the theories of or-
thodoxy could not bo met in the conditions. And
he disappointed more, inasmuch as even in tins
contention he forgot, or had no knowledge of, the
funniest fixtures to which orthodoxy is com-
mitted. He excited laughter by his description of
the mistakes that would happen in the hurry of
resurrection, but he was totally unjust to ortho-
doxy in being silent as to the stereotyped replies
to his raillery. A respecter of Free Thought, or
one willing to give the system a fair show, would
be the most offended by the discourse. Now,
why did not Mr. Walker study St. Augustine ?
That venerable father gave the whole history of
the Resurrection, and, on a hypothesis that is the
Tdisoti d'etre of Christianity, accounts tor every-
thing that seemed mitri in the Opera House. Hut
that father is just the perfectly complete embodi-
ment of the fullest grotesquoness of the common-
place aspect of the “risen again race. Apostle
Walker stuck like a martinet to the text We shall
all rise again with the same bodies wo had in this
life ’’ Thereby ho made a little tun; but if he had
thrown hints if into the arms of orthodoxy, he
could have made twice as much and escaped being
stale. For instance, St. Augustine maintains that
we shall all rise at about the development of 30 years
of age. Ho agrees with Melbourne Thomas that it
would be absurd to keep an infant eternally an in-
fant and make an old paralysed man go a paralytic
through the halls of Eternity lor ever. Thomas
ought to have jumped fiat with St. Augustine, for
St. Augustine is accepted by all the Christian
churches. Then he would have had his chance.
For instance, St. Augustine says that there will be
no women resurrected; that is well yes they
will—but—ah—well— you know—they will—ah—
rise—well—not as women, you know—ah. In other
words, he goes straight for it that they 11 all rise as
men. And that’s not the only thing the saint tells
about the Resurrection. Thomas, Thomas, you
missed some splendid jinks. i r ou are a good
speaker, a very superior declaimer, you have read
a little, ana admire Colonel Ingersoll; but don t
spoil yourself and hurt your theme by playing
your fiddle solely to please the ears of beardless
larrikins 1
The poor parson came down to town, and
went bathing. A huge breaker washed full in his
face, and washed out his teeth. In vain he searched
and offered rewards to the small boys. The teeth
were lost, and he dressed himself in tears and
silence for the confessional at his lodgings. “Where
have you been ?” shouted his eighteen-stone wife
and the rest of the home cohort, as he ap-
proached. A dismal series of mouthlngs was the
only answer, and his handkerchief was pressed
wildly to his chin. His confession was met with
roars of laughter. Then he “got ill,” and stayed
indoors for a week. He returned to his flock with
bulging lips and a complete double set of teeth
the most smiling man in the tow nship. The people
were delighted, and flocked to hear him in his new
articulation. Then the trouble began. The teeth
did not tit, and this distracted the brethren and
sisters who wanted nothing but the gospel before
their eyes. But how can the poor man help it if
his upper teeth fall down occasionally and compel
him to murmur “yum, yum,” instead of the words
of scripture, and if they fly down and back with a
“ click, click ?” The worst of the parson’s scrapes
was when, at the time he married Miss Martha to
the man of her choice, he set the whole room roar-
ing as he said—“ I, Martha—yum, yum—take thee,
Michael —yum, yum—to be my w edded — click,
click—husband.” The bride blushed at the par-
son’s raouthings and smacking of his lips ; the
groom said something in an undertone that
sounded singularly like swearing, and the con-
gregation have done nothing but talk about it
ever since. The result is that they are likely to
lose their minister unless ho is provided with a
new anti-clicking set of teeth, for if this yum-yum
business is kept up there will be a terrible scandal
somewhere in the church before long, Now, inas-
much as we have societies to send clothes, tooth-
brushes, and testaments to the heathen, it is worth
considering whether it would not also be advisable
to inaugurate a societj'' which shall furnish new
and orthodox and strictly religious sets of teeth to
poor but pious ministers.
We learn from the Warenambool Stand-
ard that the Penshurst (Vic.) clergyman preached
in the Presbyterian Chur ch, Belfast. On this
occasion he gave predestination the cold shoulder,
and confined himself to a resume of the life of
Czar Peter—commonly called “the Groat.” Peter’s
qualities appear to have found favour in the
preacher’s eyes. The congregation were told of
the autocrat’s humility and greatness of mind, but
not of his abominable crimes. The fact is, Peter
was a barbarian —a decent sort of savage, if you
like, when you got him in good humour, but a
savage all the same. When his dinner disagreed
with him, or the laundress had not the family
washing up to time, he would think no m ore of
skinning a hundred serfs than a Sydney butcher of
stuffing sausages with offal. He was a “Tartar,”
without the prel iralnar y scraping. The parson had
probably not read the episode narrated about
Peter in Carlyle’s History of Frederick the Groat
—how when a certain Prince at a public audience
presented to him his bride (Peter’s own neice),
Peter was so smitten with her that, after
smothering her with kisses, he but read
Carlyle for yourself. According to the enlight-
ened Penshurst clergymen, this gentle murderer
“put on the humble dress of a common workman
and laboured steadily lor years.” Well, Christ did
a good deal more. Civilization and humanity have
had many obstacles to surmount. Among the
most formidable were the Imperial and Royal
butchers whose names—labelled “groat”—have
come down to us through the centuries. But
greater obstacles than even these wore those who
—forgetting their dignity as min—praised them.
Writes a Melbourne correspondent“ The
philosopher who said that the chief difference be-
tween man and the rest of animal nature lay in his
capacity to laugh, may not have been so far out
after all. Tnere is certainly room for arguing that
the chief difference between an able and a dull
man lies in the ability one of them possesses to see
where the laugh comes in. This is easily demon-
strated. A man on a platform or elsewhere, who
cannot see the Incongruity in a situation visible to
most of his auditory, is on an intellectual level-
well, with those of his hearers who also do not see
it. For instance, in a R.C. chapel in West Mel-
bourne, the other Sunday, the preacher, expound-
ing that passage descriptive of Christ’s scourging
of the money-changers from the temple, dwelt
most unctuously upon the enormity of allowing
worldly thoughts to occupy the mind while under
the sacred roof. 4 It is to bo feared, dearly beloved,
that you, at least some of you, carry here
thoughts about your businesses, and about the
gains and losses you have had during the week.
You are thinking of money: of how you will make
more, of how you will spend what you have. I
need not tell you how severely our Divine Master
reprobates thoughts of that kind in his house.
‘My house shall be a house of prayer.’ Let the
world and its money be kept outside. While here,
think only of Heaven, your eternal home. After
Mass, my brethren, a collection will be taken up to
enlarge the parochial house.” Now, there is no
fear that Spurgeon, Ward Beecher, Pere Hyacinthe,
or Pore Geatry would land themselves in such a
glaring non-sequitur. Of course, all these ask for
money—why not ? —but instinctively they catch
the skirts of travesty and draw the burlesquerie
from before the eyes of the spectators. The Rev.
A. J. Clarke, who figures in the Temperance Hall
in Russell-street, has a better way. Ho announces
that he doesn’t want your money, but that
he's not such a fool t.s to give it back if
you once let him touch it. He says that when he
gets money he gets a proof that he is wanted, and
that God has sen t him. There is a little forgetful-
ness of other apostles about this, but it is after all
a sound commercial way of looking at the thing,
and induces a fair share of forking out. But the
best beggar in Melbo urne at the present time is
“Major” Barker of the Salvation Harmy. In his
line, he is about the ablest In Australia. His groove
is daringly original:—“ Now, my friends. Hallelu-
jah 1 Say it again, my friends, bless the Lord! I
want cash! Hallelujah! I know that my Re-
deemer liveth! Hoho! Wo-o-o-oo, I want cash!
The good man is now going round with the plate.
Give, give; you can’t but give. I knew a man
who refused to give, and he dropped down dead—
hallelujah! Keep it, if you like. If you have in
your pockets money that you robbed from any-
body, don’t give it: if you are cheating anybody
out of money you owe him, keep it. I don't wa nt
it. But if you have money of your own, got
honestly, then give it. Bless tne Lord I”
“ Where did you get your wonderful power
of language?” asked an admiring auditor of the
local preacher at the close of the sermon. “ Oh,”
repliel the preacher, “ I used to work in a barber’s
shop.”....The Rev. A. M‘Vean (Pres.) considers
Higlnbotham’s recent lecture a dastardly attack
on Christianity. What in thunder would this re-
verend person call a church that lived a lie, if he
exhausts his strong epithets in denunciation of »n
eloquent and earnest plea for the Christianity of
Christ? The S.M. Herald, in its review
of the contents of the last number of the
Sydney University Review, says, dpropns of
Evelyn Hodgson’s plea for an unsectarian college:
—“ The great advantages of college life are indis-
putable; but how far they could be secured in a
purely sectarian college is a question. Wo have no
experience to guide us. Could we make sure
that in a non-sectarian college we should get a
thoroughly moral influence to control the inter-
course of resident students?” No experience to
guide us? How about the Owens College, Man-
chester, and University College, London, not to
mention American and German colleges galore?
Item: What is the extent of the ‘‘thoroughly
moral influence” of the sectarian colleges of
Oxford and Cambridge as a means of controlling
the resident students thereat?
A Breton poet has said that after death,
Renan’s soul will fly all night, in the shape of a
white bird, round a ruined sanctuary, which it will
try to enter in vain. Is not this the picture of
every visible communion—a crumbling church
that has closed windows and doors against the
worshipper and against the light? — Bishop
Magee, of Peterborough, says, with his accus-
tomed acidity that it is impossible for any private
member of the Commons to get the decent fair-
ness of a hearing, not to say of a second reading,
for a measure of Church reform, because there
was a large party in that House who were politi-
cally interested in the preservation of Church
abuses. They held the same sentiments as the
Dissenting clergyman, who prayed to the Al-
mighty that the Church might grow worse
and worse till she stank In the nostrils of the nation.
....What will Mr. Spicer—or. rather, our Mr.
“ Spicah”—say to these comments:—“ The English
clergy are almost uniformly monotonous, often
drawl in delivery, and end their sentences most
commonly with the rising inflection, generally
running them out on a sort of horizontal line at
great length, with a little ‘turn-up’ at the end,
like a pug-nose—which has raised in my mind the
question whether they were ever taught the sim-
plest rules of elocution. Their delivery is pain-
fully monotonous, and often a more sing-song
drawl or whine. Por instance, the Bishop of Ro-
chester is a popular platform speaker, and is freer
than many from these faults upon the platform,
but when ho ascends the pulpit naturalness seems
wholly to forsake him and a ‘holy tone’ settles
down upon him.”
Sydney “mashers,” and young women who
estimate a man by his moustache and his gold albert,
will be interested to hear that James Tyson, the
richest man in Australia, uses a bit of green-hide
for a watch-chain. Mr. Tyson is unostentatious
save in the modesty of his get-up. He called at the
bank the other day in Sydney, and enquired for
the manager. “ He has just gone out, Mr. Tyson,”
replied the accountant. “ He hasn't taken his hat
with him—I saw it on the table as I passed his
room,” remarked the millionaire. “ Oh,” explained
the accountant, “ that's an old hat he wears occa-
sionally in bad weather and so on.” “ Well,
Indeed,” mused the richest man in this continent,
“ so my bank manager has two hats. I haven’t.”
A Salvationist Lay.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear brother, come and meet us,
Give old Satan his quietus,
Join the raving, ranting 1 regiment of the just;
Seek for ghostly consolation,
In our “ Army of Salvation,”
And inflate yourself with glory till you “ bust.”
We are marching onward gaily,
Gaining countless converts dally—
Johnson, Jackson, Thompson, Jenkinson and
Jones;
They are always made serener
By our drum and concertina,
And their fleshly lust is banished by the “ bones,”
There is really no mistaking
The impression we are making,
Pish are flocking to our net in perfect shoals;
At a recent “ army ” gathering,
So seductive was our blathering,
That we captured six and twenty sinful souls.
Maybe business doesn’t suit you,
Then I'll willingly “ recruit ” you,
’TIs a service full of little bits of “ fat;”
We have men of all descriptions,
Hushing forward with subscriptions,
Por we’re very smart at sending round the hat-
You’ve no need of education
(That is no consideration),
But, possessed of leathern lungs, you cannot fall;
And, I willingly will wager,
You’ll attain the rank of “ Major,”
If you happen to be just released from gaol.
If for music you’ve a fancy,
(Like our “ Hallelujah Nancy,”)
And can play upon the trombone or bassoon,
You would then become a “ Colonel,”
And be safe for life eternal,
(Always granted that you never played in tune.)
As for me, I’m toiling gladly,
And it doesn’t pay me badly,
(Tho’ of worldly gain ’tls vanity to to speak);
There is moral elevation
In tho snug remuneration
Of a “ screw ” of fifty shillings every week.
There is one, too, of our actions
That possesses great attractions
Por the true “Salvation” warrior, I remark;
Namely, saving souls from Hades,
(If they happen to be ladies' )
With a pious course of “ knee-drill ” in the dark.
Brother, after that suggestion,
I will merely put this question:—
“ Don’t you really think it’s worth a sinner’s while
To, by way of recreation,
Join our * Army of Salvation,’
And be purified from all your worldly guile.”


ASK FOR
OIfrf?tghlonft afl)mkcB>
JAMES WALKER
EDINBURGH
i\ 7j
1 \ I hub x m
Registered
TO be had from ALL WINE AND SPIRIT MER-
CHANTS, and WHOLESALE from the
SOLE AGENTS;
JOSEPH BOYD & SON,
1 CHANGE ALLEY, PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Near the Circular Quay).
To be procured in Cases, Casks, Octaves, and Jars
VW Please read Certificates of its purity ; also.
Certificates from the 42nd Royal Highland Regi-
ment “THE BLACK WATCH,” and the 71st High-
land Light Infantry, &c., &o., as supplied them by
JAMBS WALKER, for 14 years, till his death, and
still supplied to them by JAMES HADDOW & CO„
the purchasers of James Walker’s business, with
the right to use his name on all Labels, Invoices,
Seals, and his Trade marks and symbols.
’ Notice—The above label registered.
JOSEPH BOYD & SON.
WRI6HT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn Wagga Wagga
X 888 . Hanging Rook
Bownlng Culcalrn
Binalong Cowabee
Harden Narandera
J ou n? Hulong
Cootamundra Carrathool
Junee Hay
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertlre
Westejrn District, N.S.W.;
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Co bar
Coonamble
Bourko
Morpeth
Qunnedah
£ arrabri
Walgett
Northern District, N.S.W.:
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Ur alia
Brisbane
Uorna
Dalby
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line;
Yeulba
Cambooya
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Townsville
barters Towers
Central. Line:
Capelia
Comet
Northern Line:
Ravenswood Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
P®'” Agencies in all parts of the world.
umbrellas
RECOVERED.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourUmbrciti Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield HiJ], between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted.
D. & R. BRADFORD,
Ironfounders, Genera
Blacksmiths, &c.,
“CITY FOUNDRY, ’’
1ST 121 LIVERPOOL STREE1
and at
201 ELIZABETH STREET,
Between Bathurst and Park Streets.
All kinds of Ornamental Castings, Wrought Iro
Pal leadings, Wrought and Cast Iron Girders, Cai
Iron Water Pipes, Connections, Water and Fix
Plugs.
Estimates given tor all kinds of Ironwork, &c.
KIRKER, GREER, & CO., DISTILLER
BELFAST and GLASGOW.
LOCH DHU, very oldest and purest Scotch
Whiskey.
SHAMROCK, very oldest and purest Irish
Whiskey.
Won 4 Gold Medals and Australian Exhibitions.
Government Analyst says: Unusually pure,
mellow, and well-matured.
FROM ALL SPIRIT MERCHANTS.
„ „ Agent: Q, ADAMS,
119 Pitt-st., Sydney, and Fllnders-st., Melbourne
yyiLcoi
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4 10
MANGLBI
WASHING
MACHINE!
CHURNS,
Corn sheller
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
HBBBLE WHITE & CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
BLEND
[trade!
JmarkI
.-A I
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
mning fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
~P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
T7" an-dertstlrer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
JOHN DUNKS,
IMPORTER OF
Bicycles and Ui
AND ALL THE NECESSARY
Fittings for same,
363 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Foster s Bugle Brand.
ZEEotel
CORNER CASTLEREAGH & BATHURST
STREETS, SYDNEY.
JAMES SHARP,
Late of the Collonnade Hotel, corner of King and
o^H t lh rea8^i® treet8 ’ d ® sIres to inform his friends
fP d the public generally, that he has removed to
» b u H ?. tel ! which tow been lately known as
rnfio-v.?^ 6 Par . k Hotel, and which ne has tho-
L rel ?P vated - J- «• trusts that, by his usual
theTmous ®‘ deSire8 t0 8tate that be 8tm
“SILVER CUP BEER.”
ktSSWadu'^OB
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
on the most approved Eng-
Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
Yj A MaSCOTTE consultations.
METROPOLITAN, & MELBOURNE CUP, 1883.
Metropolitan, 5000 shares at 10s. each ... £2600
Melbourne Cup, 10,000 shares at 10s. each £5000
SYDNEY.
Metropolitan Stakes.
1st Horse
2nd ,,
3rd „
Starters ..
Non-starters
Prize Gifts
MELBOURNE.
£2000
1000
600
200
300
1000
£5000
£3500
Prospectus on application.
.The La Mascotte Company thanks the public for
their support in previous consultations, and hopes
for a continuance of their patronage for this pro-
gramme. *
Application, by letter only.
Applicants please state for which event.
D. LINDQ. No. 8 Tattersall’s Chambers, Hunter-
street, and Box 723, P.O.» Sydney.
08000 on MELBOURNE CUP.
1883. *
The Third Consultation of my 1883 Series.
“AUSTRALASIA” SWEEP.
12,000 Shares, at 5s each.—An even 4, £1.
First Horse .. £1000
Second Horse .. 500
Third Horse .. 350
Starters divide .. 150
Non-Starers .. 100
Total. £2000.
The success of former
Prizes at
£25—£250
10- 600
5— 250
„ £1000
Grand total, £3000
events induces me to an-
nounce the next on the Melbourne Cup, the
greatest racing event of the year, as above.
Results advertised in leading papers, and for-
warded to all subscribers. A pound secures four
chances— not one only. Ten per cent, is deducted
for all expenses. Applicants are requested to en-
close notes, P.O.O., or crossed cheques (to which
exchange must be added), and 4d. stamps for reply
and result. Register tetters. * J
Address—“ AUSTRALASIA,”
Care of Mr. H. J. FRANKLIN,
Printer and Publisher,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“D
MEL
I A M O N D.’
LBOURNE CUP CONSULTATION 1883.
Capital £10,000 in 20,000 Shares of 10 shillings each
DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:—
First Horse.. .. £3000
Second Horse .. 2000
Third Horse .. 1000
Starters divide.. 1000
Non-starters ,, 500
3 Prizes of £250 each, £500
5 Prizes of 100 „ 500
10 Prizes of 50 „ 600
20 Prizes of 25 „ 500
50 Prizes of 10 „ 500
£10,000
Application by If enclosing stamp, to
Care of O. Schieblich,
Watchmaker and Jeweller,
17 Little Colllns-street Bast, Melbourne,
(Near Colonial Bank.)
Prizes paid one day after drawing, and Horses
paid two days after event.
Result slips posted to each Subscriber, and also
advertised in daily and weekly papers. Shares sent
per return post. Prospectus on application.
Letters containing cash should be registered.
If country cheques, must bear exchange.
N.B.—“Diamond,” in thanking numerous clients
for their support in previous successful racing
seasons, invites their co-operation in the above.
£3000 For 2s. Gd. £3000
A COLOSSAL FORTUNE for HALF-A-CROWN
The “ GREAT VICTORY ” SWEEP on the MEL-
BOURNE CUP, 1883.
To be Run on the 6th November,
This Gigantic Sweep, offering advantages to the
public never before attempted, is the property of
a bond Me Company with responsible directors.
CAPITAL: £10,000, divided into 80,000 Shares of
2s. 6d. each.
Also, over 1000 Prizes guaranteed, and distributed
as follows:—
1st horse ..
2nd horse ..
3rd horse ..
Starters divide
Non-starters do.
20 Prizes at £50
£3000
1000
500
500
250
1000
40 Prizes at £25 ..£1000
100
200
750
do.
do.
do.
Total.
1000
1000
750
£10,000
We shall send 9 tickets for a pound. Not less
than 2 sent to any single address. Send P. O. order,
cheques, or bank notes. If stamps are sent, add
exchange at the rate of Is. in the pound. Should
coin be sent, register letter. Please send 3d. extra
for membership.
The drawing will take place on the 1st November,
and will be conducted by a committee of 150 Share-
holders drawn from the entire body. The result
will be posted to all Shareholders immediately,
and advertised throughout the colonies.
Tickets sent by return post.
Write at once for prospectus. No charge.
Address-* 1 VICTORY,”
Care of George Robertson, 94 Bourke-street.
Next Opera House, Melbourne.
sifiii 1
m
m
«* <*
In U
sj
MIX
1
&
Bfi
f/io
»
»
|»(ll|
«e
os
wirpiijiiw
K
m
Of
\fS#
m
itSf. £ 1 ;im jK|l» jhm^m
r - ■■••• aa ai
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market,
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA R E,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
<y.«t
Sole Agent tor
W. & a SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS,
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
BT C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STlittK/l.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
TO CONNOISEURS of WHISKEY & BRANDY.
W. & A. Gilley’s CASTLE BRAND WfilS-
KEY and L’OR EXTRAIT BRANDY are the
oldest and purest spirits imported.
TUCKER & CO., Agents,
377 George-street.
HUST’S BOOT EMPORIUM, 404 Geoboe St.,
near King-street.
Gents’ Boots, French Calf or Kid, superior quality,
from 10s. 6d.
Superior Ladles’ Extra High Glace Kid Button
Boots, superior quality, from 10s. 6d.
Ladies’ Evening Shoes, a great variety, from 4s. 6d.
M ELBOURNE CUP, 1883
LEVIATHAN “ ADAMA8TOR ” COMPANY.
CAPITAL, £20,000 in 40,000 SHARES of 10s Each.
634 PRIZES (more or less), £12,750 for STARS,
and £7250 for HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (winner of the Melbourne Cup)... £3000
Second Horse 1500
Third Horse 750
Starters (divide) 800
Non-starters (do) ... 1300
V First Star £3000 »*♦
*** Second Star 1000 ***
*** Third Star 500
13 stars of £300 each, 100 stars of £100 each, 20
stars of £50 each, 20 stars of £40 each, 45 stars of £35
each, 100 towns of £10 each, 300 towns of £8 each,
85 towns of £6 each, and “ the comet ” £40.
“ Adamastor,” in thanking his subscribers for the
liberal support that he has received from them for
the past three years, and in consequence of the
yearly increase of subscribers, finds it necessary to
double his programme, which he begs herewith to
submit.
All parties are requested to forward drafts, P.O.
orders, or cheques; if cheques, exchange must bo
added, and in all oases postage fees; if cash, to
register letter. Application by letter only, ad-
dressed—
“ADAMASTOR,” care of L. A. Pereira, 34
Bourke-street, west, Melbourne; Box 473, G.P.O.,
Sydney; and Little’s Bass Hotel, corner Pitt and
Market Streets, Sydney.
P.S.—Results sent to country shareholders, and
published in The Australasian, Aq®, and Sydney
TovrN and Country.


The fashion of very decollete dresses seems
as rampant as ever in England-Indeed, itisdiflicult
to believe that one is living in an age of refinement
and delicacy. Mothers seem to rival their young
daughters in the display, and husbands apparently
are notashamed to accompany their wives in really
undress uniform. Speaking of dieolletti dresses
reminds one of an anecdote teld of a certain bishop.
A friend looking at a lady who Indulged in this
weakness, said to him, “Bishop, did you over see
such a sight?” “Not that T remember,” replied
the right reverend father: “that is to say, since I
was weaned.” But wo read something still more
shocking than this in Le Journal pour Ri re ever
so long ago:—“Maman, shall I wear a very low
dress at Madame ’a dance ?” “ Why do you ask
such a question, my child ?” “ Because, maman, I
want to know how much of my neck I have to
wash.” Wo confess that this doesn’t read very
elegantly out of the French,
That majestic and ponderous institution,
the law, may sometimes operate distinctly in
favour of immorality. In England, a youth, a
ward “in Chancery ”—0 memories of Jarndyce v.
Jarndyce!—had the misfortune to marry a young
woman without the consent of the Court, and the
Vice-Chancellor, unable to declare the marriage
lllegd, issued an order that, so long as the youth
remained under the direction of the Court, he was
not to “conablt” with his lawful wife. As a
matter of courseTft may be said, the wife, deprived
of the companionship and protection of her hus-
band, and thrown into the whirl of temptation,
fell a victim to seduction, and before the time had
arrived when she would bo tree from the cramp
of the Court ot Chancery, became a respondent in
the Divorce Court, and the marriage was dissolved.
Thus, the all-wise Court, instead of rendering the
future life of these young people a decent and
possibly a happy one, did its best to introduce
misery and misfortune into their existence. And
It succeeded.
According to the old fossils of the House
of Lords, it is shockingly Impious to marry your
deceased wife's sister. Yet for a woman to marry
her deceased husband’s brother is a most com-
mendable act. According to the Bible, which, us
every one knows, is the secret of England’s great-
ness, there is a clear enactment on this head in the
35th chapter of Deuteronomy ; m fact, if the
brother died without issue, and his surviving
brother declined to marry his widow, he was not
to get off scot-free, but was to be publicly dis-
graced for his refusal. There is an example of this
custom thoroughly worked out in the case of
Ruth and Boaz. It can be found in the 4th chapter
of the Book ot Ruth. Indeed, it is said that, to the
E resent day, among the Jews, when a man marries,
avlng brothers, the officiating liabbi at the time
of the ceremony requires each brother, either
married or single, to sign a deed of release and
agreement, enabling the widow to marry any
other than himself. By this agreement made
between the brothers, the survivor saves himself
from the punishment which would otherwise bo
meted out to him for refusing to marry his de-
ceased brother's widow.
* * *
A snow-white hen hatched five black
chickens and killed every one of them after they
left the shell. She didn’t want the other hens to
eye her suspiciously and talk about her Mary
Neal (not Lucy this time) wasr eleven weeks old.
She thought she would like to see a little of the
world, and, her mother being of the same mind,
Mary was entrusted to her brother—a lad of six.
Ho had a down on babies, so he took her to the
top of the stairs and trusted to the force of gravity
for the rest. When picked up she couldn’t speak,
but as she couldn’t do this before the circumstance
attracted no particular attention. It was only
when her mouth was observed to be somewhat
shifted that her mother took the matter in
hands. It is pitiful to see children of tender years
entrusted to the care of others of years still more
tender—August Bleck was arraigned for murder
at Brisbane. We have nothing to say about
August—whether he settled his man or his man
settled him. But we have about Maggie M’Leod,
one of the witnesses. Maggie started well. She
said: “ I am a single girl; my husband was
drowned some time ago.” “Then you are a
widow,” suggested her interlocutor. “No,” said
Mag., “I’m married again.” The next time
“Peggy" become® a widow she might drop us a
line. We have planted a few wives in our time,
and are on the look out for a fresh venture...
“Men live a great deal faster than women,” she
remarked. “ Fes, Maria,” returned the bachelor,
“ the last time we met wo were each twenty-four
years old. Now I’m over forty, and I hoar you
haven’t reached thirty yet.” They never spoke
again Mrs. Langtry astonished some of her
audiences in America by playing the classic rSle of
Galatea in white satin slippers with high French
heels, which clacked incongruously as the ani-
mated statue descended from its pedestal. Her
best role is said to be that of Juliana in the “Honey-
moon.’ Her first entrance in thatcomedy in a robe
of white stamped velvet with square cut corsage,
her beautiful neck and tine-shaped head adorned
with magnificent diamonds, never failed to create
a sensation, and to arouse the enthusiastic admira-
tion of the audience. Mrs. Langtry is an excellent
financier-, and is exceedingly careful of her large
American gains, never spending an unnecessary
penny. AVe are delighted to hoar this. It is so
seldom one finds a pretty woman who can save
money At a recent inquest at East Harnham,
Eng., a letter was read full of the tenderest pathos.
It was that of a girl of twenty, a student at a train-
ing college :—“ Dear Ma, I am deeply grieved to
tell you that I have given way to temptation. You
will hear all from Miss Rodwell, our lady super-
intendent. She has been kind to me throughout
all-oh, so very kind. At the time I write this
I feel out of my mind. What to do I do not know.
I feel certain that I shall be dismissed from the
college, and rather than bring disgrace upon you
and my vicar I will get rid of myself. I feel that
I have done more than I can expect forgiveness
for.” If suicides always carried such a purifying
and viv d moral to the human hearts left behind
the awful act of self-destruction would not be
without a redeeming element of compensation....
“Confidence ” thus advertises in the 8.M. Herald:
—“Matrimony.—A widower, aged 40 years, with
two children, wishes to correspond with a young
lady, with a view to the above. Must bo of medium
height, member of English Church.” Perhaps he
means her to wear No. I’s clothes.... Mary Ander-
son, the beautiful American actress, who will
shortly appear at London Lyceum in “ Pygmalion
and Galatea,” intends that her wardrobe shall
thrill the British public. Her costume is described
ns “ a Greek tunic falling in a perfection of grace-
ful drapery, yet skilfully contrived to convey the
idea of massiveness of marble.” To obtain this
effect, it is necessary to put metal into different
parts of the garment, and to Liston “ certain por-
tions to the body and logs with concealed bands.”
Moreover, Miss Anderson’s wig resembles cut
stone, and her stockings are “ fitted to every toe.”
If she does not look like a statue In this array,
especially after the imagination of the spectator
has been duly impressed by this wonderful descrip-
tion of her dress, then there is something wrong
with nature, not to mention art.
For the double purpose of adding to the
revenue and protecting native industries [those
people never appear to see that the same law will
not compass both objects] the New Zealanders
imposed a tin on Tasmanian jams. This, of
course, induced persons in Maoriland to try their
hand on Jam, and equally, of course, they burnt
their fingers, for the Tasmanians—simple people-
boiled their fruit at home, and sent it over in
water-tanks (admitted duty free) to Dunedin.
Thus the New Zealanders’ stroke broke a lot of
their citizens, paid lM>ti a tin more for marmalade
than they needed, enabled some Tasmanians to
build fine houses, and did not add a penny to then-
own revenue—all by one far-seeing legislative
stroke. “ Britons never shall be slaves.”
It is not often that a C.M.G. excites sym-
pathy, but quite recently in a more southerly town
than Sydney one of the famous tribe actually not
only created sympathies but deserved them. He
had backed an amiable M.P.’s bill for £60, which
was naturally dishonoured at maturity, and en-
tirely forgotten by the C.M.G., who shortly after-
wards was arrested at the suit of Moses, Aaron, and
Company. Then, of course, other creditors flocked
forward joyfully to kick the man of titles who was
down. Not likely any banker would give him a lift!
So, with £31,000 assets and a balance of some thou-
sands to the good, our C.M.G. was forced to assign
his estate—become politely insolvent. He is not a
bad fellow, nor really ever did anything to deserve
being saddled with a companionship of this mon-
strous order. We feel it hard that a man’s mone-
tary misfortunes should become additionally con.
spicuous because in some careless moment he had
consented to wear such an opprobrious decoration.
Mr. Justice Higinbotham has given the
churches “fits” by simply telling them the plain
truth, that their oppressive and arbitrary dogmas
are revolting and odious to the natural conscience
and understanding of man. ’Tis the churches that
crucify the Christ afresh and keep back His good
news, that their theologies may pass for it. Higin-
botham, so far, is right. As Rossetti sang—
“Lot lore of all theology
Be to thy soul what it can be.
But know—the Power that fashions man,
Measured not out his little span
For him to take the meting rod
In turn, and so approve on God,
His science of theometry.”
What’s the use of an Usher of the Black
Rod and a Sergeant-at-Arms ? Such ornamental
tlunkoydom, in pinchr.eck imitation of British pre-
cedents, should to abolished.
AVas the Marquis De Rays guilty of any-
thing more than lack of success ? Podsnap
condemns him, of course. But then if Do
Rays had been an English Duke and his
scheme an agrarian one, by which to dupe the
Maori and fill the pockets of a British syndicate,
i’odsnap would extend to his Grace and it both
favour and benediction — The Queen, who has
been on the throne forty-six years, has reigned
longer than any civilized monarch save the Brazi-
lian Emperor, who succeeded his abdicating father
when he was but five and a-half years old in 1831.
Only one man of her Cabinet of 1837 remains. Lord
Lansdowne’s great grandson now enjoys his es-
tates. There are but three members or the present
Parliament who were in the Parliament of 1837.
The Queen has had eight Prime Ministers. They
are all gone save Gladstone.. .Mrs, Annie Beeant,
the co-labourer of Charles Bradlaugh, is about to
visit America to advocate the Malthusian theory
that the prime duty of parents is to limit the
number of offspring. Annie was once a beautv,
but brain fever and forty years have spoiled it.
Her lace is described as leonine, her hair brown,
and her eyes dark-grey, and her figure large
and well-proportioned. But the leonine face
and dark-grey eyes ! Those are things to
fly from. They are emblems of high animal-
ism and too much persistence..... Mr. Miller-
Mundy, whose wife ran away with the Earl
of Shrewsbury (to whom she is now married),
and was divorced in consequence, is married again
—to Miss Catherine L. Hartonp. The wedding was
very private ...The other day, by all accounts,
John Brown was a millionaire. But when his will
was proved, the total estate was sworn under
£6800—“ consisting mostly of money lodged in his
name by foreign visitors at his banker’s.” The
inscription on the tombstone, provided by the
Queen, reads thus:—“ Erected in affectionate and
grateful remembrance Of John Brown, the devoted
and personal attendant and beloved friend of
Queen Victoria, in whose service he had been for
34 years. Born at Crathlennird, December, 1838;
died at Windsor Castle, March 37,1883. * That friend
on whose fidelity you count, that friend given you
by circumstances over which you have no control,
was God's own gift.’ * Well done, good and faith-
ful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few
things, I will make thee ruler over many things;
enter thou into the joy of thy Lord II’”
If we hear much more about Mr. R. B.
Smith being banqueted, we shall curl up in our
little cots and die. We have just got hold of the
Macleay Dbase, which is published in Kempsey,
and it is as full of R. B, as the Moniteur Officiel
used to be full of the Emperor, or as wo feel full
of Robert Burdett at the present time. He has
had an address presented to him at " Smithtown
(sic), and one at Gladstone, and one at Frederick-
ton. In one of these rustic lubricators, they
“regret” little Bob “is a bachelor” [III] Mr.
Smith evades the domestic business in his reply,
for he doesn’t like to say that there is a duchess at
home in England growing up expressly for him.
It might make the chairman Jealous, or break the
heart of the expectant widow who keeps the pub,
Bob’s constituents, to judge by Dease’s reports,
seem to be men who are two-thirds boa-
constrictors. The way Robert is saliva’d is
a caution. But he doesn’t mind it, bless
you. Here is a little of the tapioca which
Bob lapped down with a complacent smile :—
“ We feel assured that you wifi, as a mark of our
pffcegi, Join heartily at the festive board which
we have prepared for you to-day, and that the re-
ciprocity hitherto exemplified may be cemented in
a bond as firm as ‘ Adamant.’ ” . . “ During the
important libel case of Davies v. Harris, a little
fellow had delivered a note from him to Mr. Smith,
who immediately left the important case he was
on to attend to the wants of the little applicant.”
This stuff reminds us, somehow, of the coach-
men’s banquets to Solomon Pell, in “Pickwick,'”
after that distinguished legal functionary had sold
out the “ redooced counsels.” Only Mr. Smith’s
replies are far funnier than Solomon’s, and cer-
tainly longer; for we learn from Old Dease that
Mr. Smiths speech at the Bellinger occupied three
hours in delivery. All Solomon Pell said was, “ if
you had gone to an irregular practitioner, you
might have got into the wrong box.” All that
Mr. Smith said was [We’ll hold It over: over
the fire.—Ed. B.]
Buzacott, the Brisbane Courier says, will
stand for a constituency in the Government inter-
est. “God help the constituency and the Govern-
ment, too. If he be returned, forthe latter certainly
will be able to boast of having the most un-
popular member in all Queensland in their
ranks,” says the Gympie Miner Ebenezer
Ward, the eminent South Australian moralist
and enthusiast in philanthropy, in the spirit of
Sapsea asks if the mere consideration of expense is
not to be outweighed by the higher consideration
of the establishment of British rule in the Pacific
islands, and the Christianising and civilising these
islands, and making them an important factor in
the civilisation of the world ? Moreover, says
Ebenezer, the French may annex the Islands, and
pour into the New Hebrides their moral filth, etc.
Enenezer, like the narrow-minded British pusson
he is, evidently thinks that France is a fifteenth-
rate power, her people all frog-eating ruffians, her
mission the uncivilising of the natives—and the
worst is such frantic Ebenezers abound ...Gar-
ranny expects that Rosebery may correct a good
many erroneous ideas of Australia “ in those
circles which live near the throne but give the
keynotes to the thought and often incentive to
the actions of the bulk of the community.” A
sentiment which reads like Turveydrop filtered
through Joaraes—
It has been found at last—coal in Victoria
Federation can now fro to blazes. It was only an
Inch and a half seam at the surface, but now thev
I s ?v! nc « 14 was at Fowlett
Klvor, Kilcunda, that the find was made, and th©
tradespeople ran up flags and things as high as
Elisha when they heard it. The analysis made by
Mr. Cosmo Nowbcry, of Melbourne.is encouraging:
water 1815, volatile matter 12«5, road metal two
hundred and forty thousand, coal 0.
The late Port Augusta race-time was made
very lively indeed. The evening before the races,
some sixty sporting men and notable Adelaideana
filled the saloon of the “ Flinders.” Nearly
man was “ elevated.” Tennant, M.P., mour\ned< (
one of the marble-topped tables and ma,W a,'
speech. Young Mortlock, son of the Opposition
M.P., mounted another table and madp another-
speech, taying that, although his fathetv wasn’t,
there, yet he was, and if any person hesitated to,
believe him, that person could be accommodated!
outside. Then every man mounted a table, anth
made a speech. We decline to repoi t thosewspeeches.
There are enough sucking orators about us already.
Next, Simms executed what he was pleased to call
a Mount Gambler breakdown ” on his table, and,
incontinently, every man broke out into a “ Mount
Gambler on his. Then somebody hit somebody
else, and instantly every man turned and hit his
neighbour. Lastly, for that night, came the spec-
tacle of sixty men fighting all at once, and being
assisted by the police, who, called in, were found
equally intoxicated all round. Glorifications wero
kept up for days, till the Circuit Sessions began,
culminating, perhaps, when Gawen, the landlord,
having found the Acting Crown Prosecutor spoon-
ing In a most outrageous way with his favourite
barmaid, took off his coat and attempted to thrash
that Jovial functionary, but was gently repri-
manded by a certain learned functionary, who
pnssedlthe animated group while pleasantly'leadinjg
out another fascinating barmaid for a walk in the
garden, Maud. Naughty Adelaide boys say it was
about the hottest time they can remember since
the colony was a coftoy. f H 1
GRAND CHARACTER-READING AND PRIZE DISTRIBUTION .
PROFESSOR SIMON RIGHT “ IN IT.”
