

CTII3XSTau£A.S, ISS3-.
yv m f M *i
Bara \sfmp
ISS^_
AJL
EIIPOEITJ
, OWE*
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
DURING THIS MONTH, WE ARE MAKING OUR SPECIAL SHOW OF
Christmas and new year’s goods
ill
" :-v
I
i
PALACE EMPORIUMS, HAYMARKET, ORLY.
*
view of the present Summer Season, and the approaching Christmas Holidays, we have made unexampled preparations to meet
hie requirements of our numerous patrons. Never before was our Mammoth Establishment so replete with New" and Fashionable
Goods for personal use, wear, or adornment, as at the present time. During the lasWix weeks we have received and opened
2000 CASES OF
Drapery, Furniture, Fancy (GSoodls and Household Requisites,
and we claim to he the only UNIVERSAL PEOVEDEItS in the Southern Hemisphere.
® Palace Emporium is one of the Sights of Sydney, and visitors should not omit to take a walk through our vast Establishment.
WE HAYE OKTXsIT OWE. ABDHESS
ANTHONY HOHDEHN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Sydney.
The Bulletin
NEW SERIES


ghS
S&M
mm
••v.
iV^
B vr/
x?.x;\:)Y':c
fcp# -• < ". ■ ’<'••
of Now South Wales.
JOHN HUNTER’S
'JnZM
EXTENSIVE SHIPMENTS OE SUMMER GOODS.
JOHN HUNTER lias much pleasure in informing liis numerous patrons that, having received (direct from the manufacture
ot England and the Continent of Europe) several very large shipments of superior-made Boots and. Shoes, embracing the 1
novelties for Ladies’, Gent.’s, and Children’s wear, will sell them at prices never before heard of in New South Wales. The enorm 0
increase of trade, consequent upon the Low Brices charged for lirst-class goods, has necessitated an additional stall of asshtU 1
and those who favour him with their custom will be sure of receiving thorough satisfaction.
Orders fiom the country, accompanied by a 8.0.0. or stamps, receive prompt attention.
The City Boot Palace is crowded from morning until night, proving beyond dispute its increasing popularity,
©
iBBS, BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-strcct, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at. MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS A CO., VALPARAISO.
7
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-llead Oltice : HONGKONG
J. C. Gostlingand Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Coin,puny (Limited)— Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company ( Limited). Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal) and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, Ac., Ac.
Crossicy Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M‘Lachlan and Gonipuny, Palsjey—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, Ac., Ae.
Thus. Glover and Company, London- Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited-)—Bangor Slates.
The'Quicks liver Mining Company, Sun Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thus. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, Ac., Ac.
Red Cross Preserving Company. Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, Ac.
De Wendel aryl Company, Hayapge, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel fencing Wire; Ac.
Thos. Perry and Soil, BiiSion—Fire-resisting Safes. Dry!) rough and Co,, Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port W ine.
Du bos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.—Scott ami Mullaly, T. Ailsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co. ■< 'j, „
Victoria.— James ITy and Co., W, and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia,—w. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
tag- INDENTS executed, on tbo most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received fot shipment to Loudon, under liberal advances.
.L
MEINRATH AND CO
Bi I
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
\ LATE
Tbo patrons of the 'KAN FU PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian eoloaiea,-are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists,’ wluj have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and ail negatives (15,0 W) in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Begs to announce to liis town and country friends, that he has just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Departmefl
Which is now replete with a Wcll-aSSorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, pcW®
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently rccowI*® 1 *®
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit a share of
patranage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PORT WIN 15,
Per
po
'tfl-vear old, Gilbev’s
Celebrated Four Diamond ..
Quality- No. 1 (very superior old)
No. *****
No.**** „
No. *** „
No. ** „
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gllbey's
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry)
el me Amontillado
Celebrated Four Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, por Imperial quart
BRITISH WINES.
James TTeddle’s Ginger Wine ..,
Orange Wine
IRISH WHLSKY.
Jameson's *** v
Old Dublin Whisky <***) bottled by Burke •"
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky "i
Jameson’s as tid a 1
Dunville’s ... -*
Kinahan's Draught, per Imperial quart *"
Jameson's „ „ "i
Flasks 3a 6d ad°
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Borne Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet
"48» r
3b 6d i ,I!
Glenlivet Whisky, per imperial quart...
FLuks ... '2s6da°
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva
Celebrated Key Brand, very large size,
bottle containing more than a quart
Flasks Key Gin . isftd 0
:cb
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best oualitv all
allowed lor. Cas.-.s of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers and delivered at the
Station or any wharf in t no pity, or any country station, Free of Charge ft
IU.IAL —15 CjU All lb. « a
The articles contained in P. K. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the beat rmalitv » r i
Kindly Note the Address-
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant & hnp ot '
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sydrtaf


THE BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No.36.—New Series
SATURDAY, JANUARY 19. 1884.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN ”
/S NO W MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S.W.—TIIAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER , WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETIN’S" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “ THE BULLETIN” IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 19, 1884.
Among the recommendations made by
Messrs. Morris and Ranken, in their report
on the Land laws, a prominent place was
held by that which suggested that aliena-
tions of the fee-simple of country lands
should be ternumted by new legislation, and
that a system of leasing should be substi-
tuted in the future. That recomm;illation
is in harmony with modern economic policy,
and in that sense acceptable to all thorough
thinkers—that is to say, acceptable in the
abstract. That the State should be the uni-
versal landlord, and tnat the expenses of
Government should be derived from the soil
in the first place, are propositions which
have been, within the last few years, demon-
strated with extraordinary cogency, and
which have not been affected by the numer-
ous attempts which have been made to
impeach the principles and controvert the
logic of the demonstrators. Henry George
and Alfred Wallace have been answered,
indeed. But they have been answered with
just the same result as in the case of the
innumerable rejoinders to Bishop Colenso,
or Charles Darwin, or John Stuart Mill.
The replies are already extinct, and the
reasonings intended to be demolished are
entering steadily and surely into the cate-
gory of undeniable facts, and into th« con-
stitution of all men’s thoughts. There is
no gainsaying, for example, a demonstration
that the soil is as much a gift of the Creator
to mankind in common as is the air, and
that, as Herbert Spencer puts it—
“ Equity does not permit property in land, for if
one portion of the earth’s surface may justly be-
come the possession of one individual, and may be
held by him for his sole use and benefit as a thing
to which he has an exclusive use, then other por-
tions of the earth's surface may be so held, and
eventually the whole of the earth’s surface may
be so held, and our planet may thus lapse alto-
gether into private hands. Observe now the
dilemma to which this leads. Supposing the entire
habitable globe to be so enclosed, it follows that if
the land-holders have a valid right to its surface,
all who are not land-owners have no right at all to
its surface, lienee, such can exist on the earth
by suffrance only. They are all trespassers save
by permission of the ‘ lords of the soil ’; they can
have no room for the soles of their feet; nay,
should the others think fit to deny them a resting-
place, these landless men might equitably be ex-
pelled from the earth altogether.”
* * *
An argument and illustration applied in
the course of the debate on the second read-
ing of the Crown Lauds Bill, by Mr.
Combes, fits in very appositely with that
demonstration, and anticipates any such
reply as that, although this may be true in
general, and theoretically, it can have no
application to our circumstances, and, in
fact, involves no practical risk of being
realized anywhere. Mr. Combes, although
he did not, so far as we have been able to
understand him, appear to be very clear
why he dislikes the Government Bill, ex-
pressed himself on some points iu a manner
which would have fully justified him in his
repugnance. He seems, however, while free
in laying down abstract principles and
adducing powerful illustrations, always
ready to run away from the conclusions
legitimately derivable from his facts and
instances. Thus Mr. Combes pointed out
that according to the scheme of the Land
Bill, in thematter of maximum areas allowed
to selectors, 50,000 persons would be able to
secure the whole surface of New South
Wales! It is singular that this calculation,
although it prompted Mr. Combes to
denounce the idea as “ monstrous,” does not
dispose him to oppose alienation altogether.
With him it seems to be a matter of
arithmetic, a sum in proportion, rather than
a question of vital principle. So far as his
speech furnishes a clue to his real meaning—
which is not far—it would appear that if the
Government would reduce the maximum
area for selections, he would be content to let
the principle slide. In other words,that while
a plan which would partition the lands of
this colony among 50,000 owners appears to
him “monstrous,” he would be satisfied
with a scheme which would increase the
CHRISTOPHER NEWTON, ESQ.
50 000 to. say, 100,000. Mr. Combes’s confusion
of mind is evidently due to defective study.
He is not master of the more recent dis-
coveries in the science of political economy,
and therefore stated —without consciousness
that it was a confession he was making, not
an argument he was using—that he “ could
understand the taxation of property, but a
proposal to tax land without taxing other
classes of property he could not understand. ’’
The distinction Mr. Combes cannot under-
stand has been very clearly and specifically
explained by Henry George. A brief quo-
tation from the exhaustive demonstration
on this head by Mr. George will serve our
present purpose :
“The real and natural distinction is between
thing’s which are the produce of labour and things
which are the gratuitous offerings of nature; or,
to adopt the terms of political economy, between
wealth and land. These two classes of things are
in essence and relations widely different, and to
class them together as property is to confuse all
thought when we come to consider the justice or
the injustice, the right or the wrong, of property.”
Thus to tax other sorts of property might
operate to discourage individual exerlion
and enterprise, but for the State to tax land,
either when admitting private property in
the soil and adopting the cognate expedient
of a progressive land tax, or refusing to
sanction private ownership and collecting
in the style of rent the difference between
what is yielded by the actual soil and what
is due to exertion, could have no such
effect.
* * *
Mr. Copeland argued this matter with a
better comprehension than Mr. Combes, but
at the same lime did not, we think, show
sufficient appreciation of the fundamental
principles. While he showed a perfect ap-
preciation of the evils and dangers of large
monopoly, he missed the equal significance
of a class monopoly on a more extended and
distributed scale. His argument, in fact,
was directed more against great monopoly
than against monopoly in itself. He would
be content to have the colony owned by the
50,000 landed proprietors calculated by Mr.
CoiiBES, although his mind revolts at the
prospect of a vast proportion being owned
by 500 great proprietors. He propounded
a preventive check. While prepared to
accept the maximum area permitted to
selectors bv the Government bill —l2BO
acres in the Eastern, and 3560 acres in
the Central division—he would, with the
view of preventing the accumulation of
large estates and the overgrowth of land-
lordism, impose a perpetual condition of
residence on each such area. In other word?,
he would make the condition of residence
attach to the selection, and not to the selector
as heretofore. The State ought, Mr. Cope-
land thinks, to insist on these areas main-
taining at least one settler, with his wife and
family, in perpetuity. The original settler,
or any subsequent proprietor, should be at
liberty to sell; but the new proprietor would,
on entering into possession, come under th©
obligation of residence.
• • •
Mr. Copeland prefers this plan to the more
sweeping proposals of the modern school of
politico-economists, because he believes the
latter runs counter to a deep-rooted human
instinct. It is his impression that there is no
sufficient reason why every man should not
be his own landlord. Replying to an inter-
ruption by Mr. Buchanan, who interjected
that every man does not want to be a land-
lord, Mr. Copeland asserted that he had
never found a person who did not feel that
desire. In this dispute, we are disposed to
consider that Mr. Copeland has the ad-
vantage. The unexplained but understood
question was not absolute but comparative.
It is true that not every man wishes to be a
landlord, because many men are content to
pass through life without direct dealings
with land. But Mr. Copeland was con-
sidering the inclinations of mankind when
choosing between a leasehold and a free-
hold. Obviously the freehold tenure has
many attractions which a leasehold one
does not present, and he would be a very
exceptional man who would not, if he were
occupying or using laud at all, prefer
ownership absolute and in perpetuity to a
conditional and limited proprietorship. But
the essential question in this case, as in so
many others, is not confined to the instinc-
tive lusts of the individual. It turns upon
a much superior principle. It is whether
these innate desires can be indulged without
infringing the rights and injuring or re-
stricting the birth-right of others. It is not,
in fact, a question of indulging instincts,
but of balancing advantages. There are
numbers of other aspirations which actuate
every individual, but which could only be
indulged by sacrificing the many to the few.
There is the lust of power, of conquest, of
ease, of sexual gratification—all these and
many other powerful instincts; but every
one of them recognised as inimical to the
common weal, and in frequent instances
held in check by special and severe re-
strictions. To adduce a uni versa
cannot, therefore, be accepted as equivalent
to proving the propriety of satisfying that
desire.
V • •
Mr. Copeland regards actual nationali-
sation of the land as impracticable. Now,
we believe in nationalisation of the land ;
but we, too, regard it as impracticable—at
present. And especially as impracticable in
this colony and other territories similarly
circumstanced as regards the proportion of
population to area. But, for almost identi-
cal reasons, we regard Mr. Copeland’s own
proposals as impracticable. The people as
a body are not eduoated up to either alter-
native. And here they are not stung by
bitter want and craving earth-hunger into
the sort of desperate envy which creates an
instinct of re-distribution as a substitute for
the deliberate philosophy which diagnoses
the symptoms of that craving, which can
predict its occurrence by observation of pre-
disposing causes and conditions, and which
would fain avert violent inflammations from
the body-politic by correcting beforehand
the abuses of the system. In radical reforms
of agrarian pysterns it will not be the thinly-
peopled colonies which will lead the way


nuoa iiviaa
a ! ‘m ‘mu
EnmjgnL
' nrulfirir trifi
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
It is bonded for several years before being bottled
or racked for export. When well matured by age,
it is carefully bottled under supervision of the
officers of J.I.M. Customs, and exported in enor-
mous quantities to ail parts of the world.
AUSTRALIAN CONSUMERS will find BRIAN
BORU WHISKY pure, mellow, and wholesome.
The great demand for this OLD IRISH BRAND
in ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, and the COLONIES
is a sufficient guarantee for its quality.
SOLD by all leading Merchants throughout
the Colonies.
JAMES YOUNG,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, .& CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
YOUNG, KING, & CO. have never ex-
hibited their WHISKIES, and therefore
cannot boast of Gold Medals, &c.
Young, King, & Co’s Lammermuir Blend fine old
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Young, King, & Co.’s 33 O.P. WEST INDIA RUM.
Wheeler & Co., world-famed Export Bottlers of
Bass’ Ale and Guinness’ Stout, and manufac-
turers of the celebrated Belfast G INGER ALE.
Sole Agent in Arntralia for above Brands
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 CHANGE ALLEY, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
BT PU R E RUM,
Extra Strong,
61. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
G. W. ROBERTS’
Siagle Bottle Bejortmeot,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
©dL
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
♦
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RKD or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
Nothing short of the tremendous impulse
imparted by suffering and deprivation will
suffice to break down the resistance of vested
advantage and the immobility of-unreason
which bolster up the evil but deep-rooted
system of private property in, and monopoly
of, land. The change will not be accom-
plished by a triumph of reason, but by a
burst of passion and despair; and here,
thank Heavens, conditions of life are yet so
easy that neither the passion nor the despair
have the putrid soil to grow in, which is
necessary for them as for some abnormal
sorts of fungi, and which only the concen-
trate! abuses of power and opportunity,
festering for oenturies in old communities,
can provide.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Tlie Address to Lord Rossbery.
It was drafted by the City Solicitor, but then the
aldermen passed it unanimously, and are equally
responsible for its nonsense and its bathos. The
Municipal address to the Earl of Rossbery is
what we are talking about just now. Of course,
at the very outset, we admit the right of any man
or body of men to make donkeys of themselves, if
they are so disposed. We don’t mind a bit being
fired into the mud ourselves—what wo really do
object to is having it rubbed in. We elect aider-
men to keep our streets clean and attend generally
to the well-being of the city. When they neglect
theso things, as they generally do, we indulge in
the hereditary right to grumble, but seldom rebel.
It is quite another thing, however, when they step
out of their proper vocation, do things which are
not in their bond, and impudently assert that in
doing so they still represent the citizens. This
address to Lord Rosebery, offered “ in the name
of our fellow-citizens,” is just one of those things
that induce us to arch our backs and look ugly. It
is a piece of flunkeyism from beginning to end.
It reads like a chapter out of the “Book of
Snobs”:—“We are deeply sensible of the honour
which we receive from the presence in our midst
of one who is a member of that distinguished
Assembly whose deliberations in conjunction with
the House of Commons, and under the guidance
of Her Majesty the Queen, direct the affairs of the
vast empire of which our colony forms part.” Is
this an extract from the “ Court Circular,” or a
State paper to be preserved in the archives of a
democratic city ? “In conjunction with the House
of Commons J” Phew! The House where all the
power resides is put in in a patronising, half-
apologetic way, as if the “ City Solicitor ” just re-
membered in time that a word might be said for it
also. It suggests old drummer Pierre when re-
lating the prowess of his ancestor, a long defunct
drummer: —
“ My grandsire was ever victorious,
My grandsire and Monsieur Turenne.”
The “deliberations” of the Lords or the “guid-
ance ” of Her Majesty have just about as much
potency in moulding English institutions, or direct-
ing “the affairs of the vast Empire,” as the reso-
lutions of the Sydney Municipal Council in keeping
the Russians behind the Balkans, or the French
out of Madagascar. Again “ But whilst as a
member of the House of Lords you claim our
homage and respect, as a man you ha/e won
our esteem and admiration.” Thus, to obtain the
“homage" of the aldermen and citizens of Syd-
ney, it is only necessary to be a lord. So, while
the veteran Bright, backed up by the advanced
Liberalism of England, declares that the absurdity
of hereditary lawmakers cannot much longer bo
tolerated in a free and progressive state—while
English Radicalism is clamouring for representa-
tion, and vowing when it succeeds to make short
work of hereditary distinctions and hereditary
legislators—the Mayor and Aldermen of
“in the name of our fellow-citizens,” are tender-
ing their “ homage ” to a visitor, not because he is
an able man, but because he belongs to a class
considered by philosopher, politician, and peasant
a mischievous anachronism !
♦
The Value of Statistics.
“ The progress of the working classes in England
during the last half century” was the subject of
Mr. Giffen’s inaugural address to the Statist 1 caj
Society, in London. Mr. Giffen is President of the
Soeiety, and is considered an able statistician. He
proves, with “ irresistible logic,” that the work-
man of to-day earns just double as much as his
grandfather 60 years ago; that, instead of the rich
becoming richer and the poor poorer, almost the
converse has been the case, as the wealth of the
rich has remained nearlv stationary, while that of
the poor—if the term “ wealth ” can be applied
without incongruity to the savings of the latter—
has increased by leaps and bounds. Mr. Giffen
says:—** The poor have had almost all the benefit
of the great material advanoe of the last 50 years.”
It has been amongst those who receive wages, and
not those who pay, that the accumulation has been
most marked. He warns his hearers against toying
with the specious doctrines of Communism and
Socialism; and shows that the accumulation of
capital, even in a few hands, is more advantageous
to the labourer than to the capitalist “The war
of the land nationaliser and Socialist is not so much
with the capitalist as with the workman, and the
importance of this fact should not be lost sight of.’>
This is a pleasant picture, drawn by one who had
all the materials at hand for making a correct
one. But is it correct? Is it a fact that the
British workman is in the enviable position repre-
sented by the President of the Statistical Society?
The slums of London, Liverpool, Manchester, and
Glasgow ; the poor-houses scattered through
Great Britain ; the agricultural labourer eking
out an existence on 10s. a week, supplemented by
an occasional dole from the squire, the parson, or
the parish ; the constant stream of emigration
Westward ; the millions who squat on the border
line separating poverty from actual want—all
meet the statement with a flat denial. Some well-
known journalists are at present engaged in
giving an account of their experiences among the
poor of East London These experiences were
obtained not from books or State papers ; not
from tables of imports or exports, returns of
bullion in the vaults ©f the Bank of England, or
learned treatises on the balance of trade and
tightness of the money market, but from actual
observations on the spot. It is not too much to
say that the abjectness of the misery they disclose
is simply appalling—misery not confined to a few
thousands, but affecting millions with sullen dis-
content towards the laws which secure the well-
being of the few at the expense of the many. The
conditions under which these people live are
destructive of all manliness in men—all woman-
liness in women. The moral foulness of
their lives is in keeping with the material
foulness of their dens. Among them the
crimes that brought destruction on the Cities of
the Plain are too common to attract attention.
Alleys reeking with garbage, houses mildewed
with damp, rooms foetid with filth, tell the story
of their iivos from year to year. Nor is all this
characteristic of London alone, but of every large
town in Great Britain. To point out to such
people the increase in the national wage fund, and
warn them against Socialism and Communism, is
surely the cruellest mookery. The assertion that
it is advantageous to a nation to have its capital or
its land in a few hands, is contradicted by every
in the history of every country. It is this
very question, not of the vast accumulation of
wealth, but of its proper distribution so as to
place within the reach of all the potentiality of
leading decent lives, that is at the bottom of those
ominous murmurs of discontent whose reverbe-
rations from time to time reach even our shores.
So far as private property in land is concerned,
Great Britain stands first among leading nations
for the—we might say—iniquity of its system.
But even this question of land distribution is
overshadowed by the greater one behind it—the
question that, in spite of the speculations of
economists or tho tables of statisticians, is making
its way to the front, and will not be denied —the
question of the distribution of wealth, or the re-
lation between labour and capital.
The S. Daily Telegraph, in an ultra-Podsnap-
pish leader on the Soudan difficulty, remarks:—
“ What does appeal powerfully to the humanity of
Christendom is the allegation that the erection
of the Soudan into an independent kingdom or
republic will give a new lease of life to the slave
trade of North Africa. ‘A renunciation of the
Soudan,’ says Mr. Broadley, ‘also means the
complete triumph of the slave dealers and their
infamous traffic.’ This is a possible triumph which
angers every Briton.” The Briton (who never,
never, never will be a slave—when he is half-
drunk at a music-hall) is naturally angered at the
bare possibility of the people of the Soudan having
the right to wollop their own niggers. Slave trade
abominations can be viewed from more than one
standpoint. There is the Exeter Hall platform,
and also that ol the wretched, down-trodden
Briton, who (thanks to the political outcome of
Jingoistic proclivities and operations in tbe past)
has, in reality, ever, ever, ever been involved in
the meshes of a blacker complexion of slavery
than ever was dreamed of in his least hopeful
moments by the most imaginative darkie in the
Soudan.
A "ROMAN " WRESTLE.
It was a dull, sluggish afternoon—the kind
of day that makes her, at the moment of the
arrival of the Coogee tram (for which you have
been waiting an hour), look doubtfully up at the
heavens, linger significantly her hat, and change
the programme to the Arcades and QuongTart.
Great resorts, these tea-shops; and when you enter
no one seems surprised to see you, but indignation
at your advent is stamped on the faces of all.
They seem to be saying under their breaths,
“ What in thunder ,”and to stop themselves
withasoone. But Quong (it is impossible to call
him, with any gravity, “ Mr. Tart ) is one Celes-
tial smile, and, when not weighed down by the
affairs of the State in his new capacity as Adviser
to the Government, will chat pleasantly with you
about either the military condition of China or the
intricacies of the noble game of “ heading ’em,”
as interpreted by the Manganese. He is, like
Trotty Vecfc’s last week’s paper, “ full of informa-
tion.” And tea, on a Saturday afternoon when
she is with you, leads to other thing S-peppermint
drops, gloves, lemon-squash, and, perchance, jew-
ellery. " It was the dullness of the weather that
made us think of the Arcades. They are splendid
places in which to study human nature. We have
haunted them in quest of jokes, until we have
attracted the attention of the beadles; and we
were unable, on one occasion, to mollify a sus-
picious storekeeper by a moderate investment in
pea-nuts. Funny shops! They seem to sell every-
thing you don’t want, and everything your girl
does. The one that always interests us is that
littlo emporium in which everything seems to be a
shilling, excepting the young lady who dispenses
the stock, and she appears to be piceless.
But, let us get on. We have seen matinees of all
kinds and in all countries. We remember, years
ago, a crazy old diorama that set forth the adven-
tures of the Duke of Wellington, or Garden
Honey, or someone, in which “ every child used to
receive a present.” And while the proprietors
were readying up the tin whistles, a feeble old
party was wont to sing some obsolete comic song
about
“ A tinker and a tailor and a soldier and a sailor,
And a swell who used to talk about bis pa and
his ma;”
playing an accompaniment to it that was solely
and completely his own. A bull-tight is a good
matinda-draw. We remember at the last one we
attended in Lima, the bull contrived to kill a
favourite picador; and it is still fresh in our
memory how, when he was taken to “his late
residence,” we shared in the popular rejoicing.
(These little reminiscences, wo take it, make
cheerful and seasonable firelight reading). But
the people here don’t get any bull-fights, and are,
as a rule, loth4o turn out in the middle of the day.
Foley’s tight was a great event, it is true; but it
was not thought amongst the talent that Miller
and Victor would, at their struggle, have “more
than a million in.” Strange to say, however,
there was a good roll-up, the gallery being
crowded, the dress-circle fair, but the monstrous
price of the stalls proved a great deal too
stiff for the “ fancy.” It was a pound to go
on the stage, and the attendance there was,
so far as numbers went, eminently satisfactory.
Laurence Foley, Esq., was present, and Signor
Verdi, and Professor D’Harcourt, and Dave
Ingram, Esq., all of whom, doubtless, contributed
libei-ally to the treasury! The Punches, strange
to say, were only represented by Steve; but the
dapper Deeble, his“pardner,”wasnot absent from
the fray. And we must not forget Clark (of C.
and R.), whose opinion of this country, if not
flattering, at least is forcible. The'pros, were in
great force. There were the “funny, very,”
duettists, who don’t look a bit funny off the
stage: and the whole was pervaded by the irre-
pressible Goodie. We were all seated in a semi-
circle, like a nigger-minstrel troupe that had lost
its wardrobejand run out of burnt cork! It was
a pretty convivial gathering; and as the company,
during the wrestle, went out five separate times
to get a drink, towards the close of the entertain-
ment many of the stage-spectators bordered
closely oo toe hilarious,
Prior to the commencement of the show)
we had n bit of an interview with Mons. Victor-
He is a lithe Frenchman, of medium height, with
no physique to speak of ; and the fact ot
his having the National rapid utterance
causes him to be the very antithesis ol
Miller, who possesses, if not the humour,
at least the concentration of the oyster. Yet, in
spite of M. Victor’s slim appearance, he comes to
us with his bright little record. He is, we see,
“ Champion Middle-weight Graeco-Roman Wrestler
of Australia, and .holder of the Champion Gold
Medal of France,” —no less! Well, despit j of this
announcement, as we gazed at and conversed w'th
Victor, the thing uppermost in our mind was not
how often Miller would throw his opponent, but
in what direction he would throw him; over how
many rows of stalls M. Victor would go; in what
part ot the dress cirole he would most frequently
alight, and how many people would be killed m
the gallery by his flying corse.
• • •
It is part of the playful nature of these
athletes to call their entertainment a Grieco-
Ronaan wrestle. Very instructive! This makes
us wonder what these .esthetic athletes would dub
a dog-light or how denominate a chicken-tussle.
At something after three o’clock, Miller stepped
out on to the carpet—which had a layer of sawdust
beneath it—looking a picture. He was naked to
the waist, and wore white and red tights; while
the Frenchman mounted white and blue. When
Victor showed up, quite a murmur of mingled
astonishment and sympathy was heard in the
theatre. He stripped very badly, and was
plainly out of condition. Long before his
first fall, he was a river of perspiration, and
kept uttering now and again a croak like that
made by a very hoarse raven. Now you shall
hear, all you that say your prayers regularly, what
the Graeco-Roman wrestling is really like. In the
first place, gentle (and wo are sure patient) reader,
Miller having undertaken to throw Victor flat on
his back five times in one hour, all the latter s
troubles consisted in keeping on the defensive,
and lying on his stomach as much as possible. The
thing, thus resolved itself into the following pas-
time. Directly the men would close, down would go
Victor on the carpet, with Miller on the top of
him, upon which the champion would twist him,
bend him, lift him, clutch him by the throat, roll
him —in fact, do everything to him but eat him.
This “entertainment” lasted usually from eight to
eleven minutes, when, on a “ fall ” being declared,
the panting pair would retire to their rooms. On
these occasions, Victor presented a pitiable spec-
tacle. His face being nearly all the time buried
in the carpet, his mouth when he got up was usu-
ally so full of sawdust, and grit, and fluff, and
carpet dye, that, when bespoke, his voice sounded
like a distant foghorn. There was no band, so the
proceedings were initiated by a few words from
the referee; an arrangement which, when it is
considered that Larry Foley was amongst the
audience, is strangely unaccountable. George
Merriman, M.P., whs up in the dress-circle, and it
was rumoured that he had been requested to set
the ball rolling, but had courteously declined. It
seems that some years ago George, who had just
come from Court, was asked to “look after ” a
well-known pugilist in a boxing-match at Larry’s,
and also to make a little speech. Being a bit con-
fused, he blurted out the following: “ Gentlemen,
I appear for the defendant here, in this ease, and
I shall put it in evidence before you, that the wqrd
of the girl is not to be believed.” He then buried
his flushed features in a foaming goblet.
« ( *
Some of the bouts were very severe, and
Victor must have felt considerably incommoded
at those times when Miller's knee was in the small
of his back, and the giant’s great fingers squeezing
his neck. This is, it seems, allowed, and was pro-
bably invented by the Graeco-Romans. Sounding
smacks uoon the bare back and sides are also per-
mitted ; in fact, the only things that seem to be
outside the rules are ear-chowing and the uso of
a bludgeon. It must bv said of Victor that what
he lacked in strength he made up in activity, fall-
ing, when thrown, like a cat, on all fours, and fre-
quently getting away from his adversary. But, it
was dreary work withal, and during the contest
certain wits whiled away the time by offering, and
taking jocose wagers for enormous sums, “that
the Frenchman would do him.” Of course the
Frenchman didn't do him, and Miller accomplished
the fifth fall within seven minutes of the hour, a
conclusion that was perfectly satisfactory to all.
• • •
By the time we left, things behind were
being got in readiness for the pantomime, and all
the fairies were at home busy greasing their eye-
brows and crimping their bangs. And that re-
minds us that actresses are as great believers in
Srease as the wrestlers appear to be in Graeco.
i 0 wn the street wo met Victor. He was doing the
most sensible thing he could do under the circum-
stances: taking a drink and smoking a cigar.
On dlt that one of the members for West
Sydney, foreseeing that his re-clection is very
problematical, is applying for the post of Stipen-
diary Magistrate, likely to be rendered vacant it
Mr. 'Dillon does not soon recover his health. This
is either the ex-butcher or the ex-carpenter. You
pays your money and takes your choice; but,
would either of them fit the position ?
Canterbury Park bids fair to be the
suburban rendezvous of the snorting world, and
the committee are doing all in their power to
make next Saturday's racing meet a success. A
large number [of ’buses will meet all trains to
Ashfield, and convey visitors to the gates. The
racing course describes an oval, and, as far as
position is concerned, is no doubt the most prettily
situated course outside the metropolis. A sprint-
ing track 400 feet long has been prepared for peds.,
a cricket ground is in course of preparation; and,
if the club continues as well as it has begun, the
patronage of the public will be assured.
Certain cricketers would like to know,
you know, how it is that Ogilvie, of the Warwick
C.(J , has not been selected for N.S.W. Fifteen v.
Australian Eleven. Some suggest (but this can’t
be true) that owing to the prominent part be has
taken in certain reforms in the Cricket Association
he is paying the penalty. His average with a
senior club this season happens to be thirty-live
wickets for about eight runs a wicket, but this
does not seem to be good enough. The selection
committee evidently prefer bowlers with an
average of twenty or thirty runs a wicket to up-
hold the honour of N.B. Wales in the cricket field.
On Saturday last the cricketers were busy.
1 he Oriental and Our Boys started their match for
the Stedman Cup, on the Cup wickets, Moore Park.
Our Boys scored 115 in their first innings-Crisp
15, Varley39, Middleton 26; and the Orientals lost
three wickets for 80-Pride 31. Luland 31 (not out),
Donnelly 6 (notout). The AVarvvick and Carltons
also started a match for the Holdsworth Cup, on
the Association Cricket Ground. The Carltons
were all disposed of for 120. Bannerman 315. Tur-
ner 1), Nunn 16, Callachor 28; and at the call of
time the Warwicks had lost one wicket for 86.
Gregory 13, Davis (not out) 30, G. Sale (nOt out)
40. The Carlingford-Belvidere match, for the
Gardiner Cup, came to a conclusion very much in
favour of the Belvideros. The scores were—Car-
lingford, first innings, 63, second 96 ; and the Bei-
videre, first, 129, and three wickets for 32 in the
second. On the Wentworth Park Cricket Associ-
ation’s ground, a combined;twelve of the Corio
and Osborne clubs easily defeated ihe first Alberts,
the latter being weakened by the absence of L).
Gregory, Massie and Moses. The Alberts scored
62 in the first innings to their opponents’ 112. The
following players have been chosen to practice
for selection against the Australian Eleven, who
will oppose fifteen of New South Wales on the
25th, 26th, and 28th of January Allen, Bryant,
Cleeve, Davis, Downes, Evans, Faithful!, Fletcher,
A. Gregory, Garrett, Hiddelston, Janes, Kirke,
Massie, Marr, Moses, Nunn, Rigg, Richardson,
Sparkes, Turner, and G. Tooher.
That magnificent specimen of jeweller’s
handiwork, Tattersall’s Cup, which was described
in our last issue, was designed and manufactured
by Mr. W. Burtt, the well-known jeweller, 339
George-street,


IKST CY £ TCH
We <£l
%2* D
4 >«■
°J r O Nt
k <y
Av
vS>
#»\
'Vi a J;
V
m rem $Jl k un *? A< ‘^§
nyrrii»v-».-n-.r —TTiri ■—imu ,-- , „,, f||||||M i„^ WMIUL j , ' *
%!r ‘
WL;
Graeco-Roman Struggle.—Miller v. Victor.


Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Rioses
Moss & Co., Sydney. General Agents. ’
ARNOLD’B BALSAM OF HOREHOUNB
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest as’ thia
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relict-
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “ArnoldV
and get it; spurious imitations are sometime
Ottered. *
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A correspondent informs us that we were
mistaken id stating' that Sir Capel Fitzgerald mar-
ried a love child, and nover know her parentage.
Our correspondent gives the name and family ot
the lady whom the baronet married, to her subse-
quent sorrow.
Robert Carter, the incarcerated insolvent,
must do his time. His petition for release has been
before the Victorian Chief J ust'ce and the Solicitor-
General, and neither soes any reason why he should
coaso to dine in Melbourne gaol. We generally
pity a man when he has been a while in gaol, we
would bo inclined to let out lots of people after
we had vindicated the majesty of the law by
putting them in. Somehow, when we have them
in, we begin to say to ourselves that there are so
many every bit as bad not in, that the poor devil
ought to be out with the rest. But we aro not the
Victorian Solicitor-General, and so Carter must
do his time. It may be as well —for if he were
out, he might be doing his creditors. Better go on
doing his time.
Mrs. Potts, M.D., who lately told us some
cheerful physiological facts concerning alcohol
and tobacco, has been ordered by the Medical
Board of Victoria to take in her sign. She may be
—probably is—entitled to fly M.D. from her mast-
head; but, not having registered iu Victoria and
paid the usual fee, the “scientists” (Lord forgive
us) of that colony have decided that her trade-
mark is not genuine. We await with anxiety the
Potts’ answer to this aspersion by the kettle. We
know the Medical Board, of Victoria. Some of the
members could nearly do long division, and one or
two of them have heard teat the earth is round;
but these cases are exceptional. We shall see
whether the screaming American Eagle will bo
put down by this little colonial bantam.
Thus a telegram, dated Gundagai, Wed-
nesday, January 9, to the S.D. Telegraph:—* Dr.
Marshall, Government medical ofllcer for this dis-
trict, is to be presented shortly with a handsome
claret jug.” Tne italics in above are ours. And
thus the Gundagai Times of January 8, in its
report of the proceedings on the Monday pre-
vious before the local Court of Quarter Sessions:
—“Hr. Marshall (calle4 by a prisoner for the de-
fence), under cross-examination : I am on the
register of medical practitioners of this colony.
The Crown Prosecutor handed in to His Honor the
Gazette containing a list of medical practitioners
for 1883, but there was no ‘ Henry Morton Mar-
shall ’on that list.” But what of “ Dr.” Marshall s
name not being on the list of medical practi-
tioners, so long as he is a Government medical
officer ? He deserves his (claret) jug.
We believe that we know the reason why
some Australian Judges have such a down on the
Press, is because they are conscious that their
family history is not conducive to respect tor
them by any one who believes in the theory that
moral qualities are transmitted from parents to
sons, just as physical likenesses are, and they live
in terror lest some journalist may open the doors
of the oupboards in which their family skeletons
are hid. Just as if everything that relates to pro-
minent men were not universally known. 1 er-
haps, if some Judges wore fully aware how gener-
ally their little “secrets” are discussed, and how
their cupboard skeletons are made to danco jigs at
all sorts of odd times, they would have sense
enougrh to understand that the more * side they
put on. and the haughtier their tone about the
purity of their souls and the delicacy of their
honour, the more fantastically ridiculous they
make themselves appear.
Among the passengers to arrive by the
mail steamer from ’Frisco is T. D. M Kay, the
celebrated general passenger agent for the Bur-
lington and Do Quincy railways. Every Australian
who has passed through ’Frisco knows M Kay.
He pervaded arriving steamers, and adopted the
largest families without a spasm, and sent them
on determined to travel by his railroad as his par-
ticular friends, with special Privileges never
before enjoyed by any traveller. T. D. M Kay is
the smartest of living passenger agents, and is
going to do a business tour of the colonies. If
Stuart doesn’t;look sharp, M‘Kay will tow the
colony across the Pacific, and ssnd the whole
population spinning across the Great Continent in
palace oars, every man woman and child pene-
trated with a conviction that M Kay had arranged
matters specially to suit the convenience of him-
self and no other passenger.
Sir Salmon may be said to have got For-
tune “by the wool,” or, more correctly, by his
own wool. He has purchased, for £308,000, the
Osmaston Manor Estate, in Derbyshire. Asi the
house and grounds (to which costly additions
have been made) originally cost £300,000, and the
rent-roll is now nearly £6OOO a year, this is evi-
dently the proper manor to make money. It is a
lovely place, sacred to the memory of Walton and
Cotton, of Rousseau and Darwin, of Johnson and
Boswell (Dovedale was the Happy Valley of
•• Rasselas”), of Wordsworth and Tom Moore (May-
field Cottage, where “Those Evening Bells
Ashbourne bells—was written, is in Dovedale),
and of many another dead and gone genius.
Doubtless the associations of the place will induce
Sir Samuel to drop into poetry. If they do, we
may so >n be ealled upon to criticise a gorgeously
bound and exceedingly hot-pressed Ole to Ration
Tea.” We’re ready.
Doctors Hinohcliff, Boyd, and M'Gillivray
—three wide-awake Sandhurst professionals—wore
lately “got at” by an innocent-looking slab of a
fellow, by means of false cheques. He first inter-
viewed Hinchdiil with a £5 draft and a hundred-
weight of dyspepsia. He received a draught in
exchange for his and £4 10s. change. Then he
sidled towards M'Gillivray’s fortress with incipient
delirium tremens. There he got doubtful medi-
cine, sound advice, and £3 9s. Od. in exchange for a
£4 cheque. When he meandered down to
“Jimmy” Boyd, at View Point, he laboured
under a severe oppression of the chest, with well-
marked pulmonary symptoms, a touch of Bright’s
diseaso, some tooth-ache, and a strong smell of
alcohol. It was a £3 bill this time, but the wily
“ James ” gave him his own note of hand for £3 75.,
and made the difference up in coppers. When a
person now presents a cheque to any of these saw-
bones, he is kept chewing bread pills in the wait-
ing room, while the servant girl goes out the hack
way for a couple of policemen and a rope.
Dick Ford, who is to be third railway com-
missioner in Victoria, was employed as a clerk in
the Liverpool Harbour Trust, and left England
when a young man. In Victoria, he roughed it
like the rest, and could bring a bullock whip
handle along the ribs of a brindle off-poler with
here and there a one—not to mention his neat
voicing of words of encouragement when the
wheels wore down to the axle in a crab-hole He
became legal manager for some mining claims in
Ballarat, and got the city clerkship. When the
Harbour Trust wanted a man, he recollected
having been in a Harbour Trust office in his
youth, and his friend, Major Smith, mentioned his
name in his little insinuating way, and Dick got
tho appointment. Recently, it will be seen, he
has recollected having travelled on railwaysagood
deal, and is once more “in it.” If the Governor-
ship of Victoria were in the gift of tho Govern-
ment, he would have been up at Government
House before this, projecting the changes he would
make in old Normanby’s establishment as soon as
that Viceroy was outside Hodsou s Bay.
The wealth of the late Lord Overstone is
estimated at between 12 and 20 million pound *.
Few men have so successfully combined theo y
with practice in their money affairs. For years hi
was acknowledged ihe greatest authority on
finance in England, and many times advised the
Government at crit’cal moments. He pricked the
bubble of paper-money scheming. He was of
Welsh parentage, a lover of art and pictures, and
was rich from his birth. His father left him
£3,000,000 some f»rty years ago. The fact that
such an eminent monetarian was strongly against
the introduction of decimal coinage is worth
noting. The will of Lord Overstone leaves £8,000,000
to his daughter. And to prevent any im passioned
youth rushing into error, wo may add that the
said daughter was married 25 years ago. Latterly,
Lord Overetone became imbued with the crank
that he was in danger of ending his days in poverty.
A story is told about his economy. Having a
Adsitor to dine, a pair of fowls formed the staple
of the meal, served on dishes of silver. Lord
Overstone carved one; and when the course Avas
removed, Avith the other fowl untouched, he said
to the servant, in a tone of remonstrrnce, “ I told
you one would bo enough to roast.”
The Hon. J. B. Patterson, of Victoria, was,
in the early days, a butcher at Castlemiine; but
he managed to creep into the good graces of the
Wesleyans and Methodists, and by their aid got
into Parliament, Avhere he proved hinjself a very
useful representative. He has eA r er since held a
seat for Castlemaine. He was twice a Minister
under the Berry regime— for Works and for Rail-
ways—and is said to have been one of the chief
advisers of the Black Wednesday episode. Then
ho became an auctioneer in Melbourne, Avhere ho
rapidly made his pile, and has now departed on a
trip for the old country. Ho is an excellent
speaker, possesses great rugged intelligence, and
has good administrative ability. Latterly he has
taken up Parkes’s r6le, and has several times tried
to arouse a No-Popery ery; but, somehoAV or the
other, that cock won’t fight in Victoria like it does
in N.S. Wales. Patterson’s attack on Redmond
and Forbes was a very safe one to make, consider-
ing that the objects of it are now thousands of
miles away from Australia. Why did he not try
it on while they Avere here ? On one occasion,
Avhen being basted by Davy Gaunson about some
of bis early transactions, J. B. P. tried to stop his
assailant by bursting into tears, and has ever since
been known as Crocodile Patterson.
After hunting around for him for a hun-
dred years they h ive at last found the man “ who
struck Billy Patterson.” Not exactly the man
either, because he is dead, but his descendants.
Billy Patterson Avas struck in a Georgia saloon, in
1783, by a man called Tillerton. He didn’t see who
struck him, and ho was so mad tnat nobody dared
tell him. He offered 1000 dollars reward for the
information. He died Avithout getting it, but the
sum was left in his Avill to tho informer. The other
day a grand-daughter of Tillerton applied for it,
and produced proofs. Here is a queer thing.
Burke, Pitt, Washington—all were alive then. The
Amerioan ReA r olution was not long over, and the
seeds of the great French Revolution Avere stir-
ring. Europe slept and dreamt not of Napoleon.
The tornado of lire and steel that was to sweep
over her was in the phantasmal future. The red day
of Waterloo was a generation off. Yet ali these
great men and terrible events came, passed, and
PROFESSIONAL PRIVILEGES.
VIGOROUS LOOKING PARTY (to gentlemanly Official): “Look ’ere, I understand you
steamboat fellers gives perfeshinal rates to perfeshinals Well, we want to go by your
line to ’Meriker.”
GENT. OFFICALl: “Ha! Yes; we do sometimes make concessions—but, pardon me,
what profession? Clergyman, or—(noticing the disabled eye) journalistaa”
V. P ARTY : —“Well, you see, I haint got no pertikler fake myself, but my wife ’ere is
in the Perfeshinal Beauty line.”
have been almost forgotten, while the memory of
an obscure row, in an obscure saloon, in what was
then an obscure country, has been preserved by a
phrase as fresh as ever. Why, at this fate, even
the speeches of Spicer, the doings of Lucas, may be
remembered when the words of clever men—our-
selves, for instance—are buried in musty oblivion.
It is this thought that disheartens us so often
when we are in the very critical throes of sublime
composition. We are consoled, however, by one
reflection—posterity has no money now, and we
want money. Always.
Now, this is a very funny case, and we
intend to be very careful and delicate in putting it
before you. See how soberly we commence.
Mrs. Hudson, of Illinois, ran away from her hus-
band and her two children, took off her petticoats,
put on pants and the name of Frank Dubois, and
altogether acted the part of a young man. Most
young men, at some period, think themselves
capable of doing a bit of courting, furthermore
marrying, and even proceeding to carry out cer-
tain biblical precepts concerning multiplication.
And, in some cases, subsequent circumstances
show them to have been justified in their original
ideas. Well, it seems that Mrs. Hudson, or Frank
Dubois, got hold of tho same ideas to some extent,
and proceeded to carry them out. She courted a
girl in Wisconsin, named Gertrude Fuller, and
married her, a clergyman performing the ceremony
in due form. Few young women proceed so far as
this in an unexpected direction, but as far as we can
learn even this peculiar person did not go any
further in the programme indicated. In another
direction, however, she did what a good few men
don’t; she went to work and supported her
“ wife,” Gertrude. Whether Gertrude was en-
tirely pleased with her efforts, we are unable to
state; but a break-up of the household Avas a few
months later caused by Mr. Hudson appearing on
the scene and announcing “ Frank ” to be his wife
and mother of his children. It is hardly necessary
to say that this novel announcement excited some
interest in the public mind, and profoundly im-
pressed both sexes with a strong idea of something
or other.
As little Alfonso of Spain seems likely
to retire from business is King, he is more than
usually interesting. Even in Mercedes’ time, with
all the romance attached to it, there Avas a “ Blue
Beard’s ”—or better still—a “ black-eyed ’ cham-
ber in the Palace of the Escurial, and it Avas
noticed that the king took, considering his age
(more than 201, q uite a feverish interest in circuses.
But his subjects like him all the better for that.
Look at poor Amadeo ! He waa never known to
be out late, or to neglect the cosy little veal Outlet
with the Queen before they sought the regal four-*
poster. Yet they wouldn’t look at him, and in a
few short months ho had, whfen the shades of
night had fallen, to do what Louis Philippe ac-
complished so expeditiously, “ the band-box and
bird-cage trick.”’ Thefe’s no morality in Spain ;
and so it wasn’t because of her giddy propensities
that Alfonso’s mother had to cord her Saratoga,
bnt because she made the mistake—the same one
Queen Caroline did, by the way—of promoting
her courier to the position of her Grand Chamber-
lain. Marfori was the gentleman, but we rather
suspect Her Majesty has had a good many changes
in the personnel of her household since then!
Alfonso was a gay youth even-when Prince of the
Asturias ; and there was a rumour current that he
and the poor Prince Imperial had a fight at Wool-
wich one day, over an attractive “brandv-snap ”
retailer. There is one thing certain. The first
place he asked to be taken to when he paid his
farewell visit to London was The Coal Hole! This
is a matter of history. If, however, we should be
mistaken for once, we shall be happy to afford
Alfonso space in these columns to make a correc-
tion. He needn’t mind writing in Spanish. There
is a German pianoforte-tuner quite near at hand.
He’ll pull us through.
It is seldom the fact of being respectable
necessitates anyone having to starve as a conse-
quence ; but such a thing actually nearly occurred.
Frank Miller was a bank clerk in this colony—we
need not particularise—and he married a sweet
and pretty Australian woman. Troubles and
changes took them to England, and thence they
took passages for New York. At the last moment,
their luggage had not come on board, Miller wont
to seo alter it, was detained, and the ship sailed.
Mrs. Miller was distracted as to what to do, but
knowing their scanty means would not permit the
loss of their passage, she went on board, crying
bitterly. A week later, without a friend, clothing,
or a pound, she was landed in Now York. In two
days, she was penniless. She called on the police;
they would do nothing, as she was not a criminal.
She called at several Homes for Friendless Women;
they would not take her in, because she was not a
fallen woman. She sat in public squares, and was
insulted by lustful men. On the verge of starva-
tion, she was saved by one of her own sex, who
Save her shelter and went to inquire about her
usband. He had sailed in the Canada, which was
wrecked, was picked up by the Scotia, and was due
in a day or so. When the Scotia was telegraphed,
the tired wife went down to the quay, and, with
tear-brimming eyes, watched the stately ship’s
slow, unsteady approach. At the same time, lean-
ing- on the railing- of the ship's side was a fair-
faced, light-haired young chap, who watched with
eager eyes the little group on the dock. The ship
came nearer and nearer, until it was ten feet from
the dock, when suddenly, above the din incident
to the arrival of a ship, rang loud and clear the ?
one word, “ Frank 1” and in an instant the fair-"
haired young m«n sprang on top of the rail upon
which he had been leaning, and with one soul-
piercing cry he sprang to the dock, and grasped
close to his heart the pretty little woman who had
watched for him so patiently, and was almost left
to starve because she was “ respectable.”
Speaking of the Mahdi, Arabi Bey says :
“Heis no prophet; there is but one Mohammad—
but El Mahdi i 3 a good man. 300,000 armed men
follow him, and he has millions of sympathisers at
his back.” This is cheerful.
Young M‘lntvre (Melb.), son of leg-o’-
mutton Johnny,“f Sandhurst and Maldon, is still
drawing £6OO a year as Secretary to the Education
Commission. The Age demands the entire wiping
out of the whole thing as a costly farce.
In connection of the horrible housing of
the London poor, the London World gives the
following names a« those of the greatest London
landlords:—“ The flukes of Westminster, Bedford,
and Norfolk ; the Marquises of Northampton and-j
Salisbury; the Berkeley family; Lord Port.man,
Mr. Thistlethwayte. Earls Spencer and Cadoaan,
Sir K. Sutton, Mr. Lowndes, Lord Southampton,
Lord Harrington; Loid Howard de Walden, and
other heirs of the London Portland estate; Mr.
Rolls of the Hendre, and other heirs of Sir John
Fleming. of Brompton.” The “ Mr. Thistle-
thwayte” abovementionedisthe son of Laura Bell
the celebrated PhrynDe of fashionable London*
about the time of the fir3t Exhibition, by ?
The genial and versatile Price—not the
Orpheus of the ItoiL n , but Kenny Hill ard
Libel Law Price—recently expressed a desire to
retire from the post of secretary of the School of
Arts Debating Club. The announcement caused
an immediate and widespread agitation among the
members of that body, and it was decided to re-
quest him to reconsider his determination. This
was done with success, and R. A. P. will, therefore,
once again be “the sweet little cherub that sits
smiling aloft” of that powerful organisation
which is shaking the world with its thunders and
decrees. A movement is afoot to present r.a.p. with
an appropriate testimonal, and it is likely to ever -
tuate in a big boom. We do not know what form
the testimonial is to assume, but as the genial
secretary once delivered an,electrifying address on
the advantages of the Blue Mountains as a second
line of defence for N.S. Wales, we would suggest
that a field marshal’s baton would not bejn in-
appropriate gift. Ho would nut . l»e the first
General Rapp xvho has made a name in history.
The petition of ' Miss Louisa Blaxland',
recently presented to the Legislative Assembly, is
a curious and interesting document. It embodies
a chapter of history, at once personal and colonial.
The late Hon. John Blaxland m shown to have
been an immigrant of exceptional quality. He
camb out in his own ship, The Brothers, with a small
army, consisting of his family, tutor, governess,
and a body of skilled mechanics and industrials,
equipped with supplies to last several years, and
further provided with the nucleus of a flock and
a herd. Merino sheep, and Alderney cows were
among his live stock. Mr. Blaxland had a fortune
of £30,000. and set to work to utilize it in a far-
seeing and euterprizing spirit. A clearing, which
he called Canterbury, for vegetables, hops and
vines, brought as seeds or cuttings, was among his
first enterprizes. He created salt-works at “ New-
ington,” and started agriculture on land granted
to him at the Cow-pastures. He launched a
schooner for the sealing business, started a brew-
ery, a flour-mil), and a dairy, and made vigorous
although unsuccessful quest for coal at Newing-
ton. In 1816 and 1817, when flock-masters .were
burning their wool in default of means of export,*,
Mr, Blaxland built a smalt factory and wove
blankets and tweeds for his hands. He had some-
times 300 hands, free and bond, in his employment,
and living on the fruits of the enterprizes started
with his money and energy. He encouraged
schools and founded churches. His son and his
brother rendered valuable services as explorers,
and now his daughter, Miss Louis Austra-
lia Blaxland, “in necessitous circumstances,”
appears as a suppliaut to beg a grant of the old
house of her father. A grant of money was lately
made to the sister of the explorer Leichhardt,
thus establishing a precedent. That a daughter of
so valuable a colonist as the late Mr. Blaxland
merits every tenderness of consideration needs no
demonstration. Yet, there are some points which
should be cleared up before the Assembly decides
to be generous. Are there none of the family of
Blaxland who have prospered sufficiently to relieve
their relative from the pressure of poverty and the
humiliation of public mendicancy ? If so, the duty
is theirs, not the country's. It is absurd that suc-
cessful Blaxlands should throw the burden of un-
fortunate Blaxlands upon the community. The
family should average the results of its migration.
And, again. Miss Blaxland prays to have accorded
to her, as the last surviving daughter of the late
John Blaxland, the “family home,” Newington
and its chapel, and that portion of its land pur-
chased by the late Government for £4OOO. Pur-
chased from whoin ? From parties who bought it
from a mortgaged, to whom it was pledged by
Mr. Blaxland, junior, for money ? Miss Blaxland,
then, it is presumed wishes that the country should
go through the form of buying the property only
to restore it to the previous owner, who had once
before had value for it. In any case, how-
ever, the prayer appears too extensive. The
use of the house for life would seem all
that can be needed to fulfil the requirements
of the nicest delicacy or most effectual
generosity towards an elderly spinster lady.
Can a man commit suicide without being
insane? Certainly. It’s true Hamlet decided that
it’s better to bear the ills that flesh is heir to than
fiy to others -that we know not of. But Hamlet’s
lifo hadn’t at that time come to bo the unutter-
able hell of misery that ipany a poor devil experi-
ences. Hamlet’s sea of troubles would be plea-
santry compared to the life of Rufus Dawes, as
told by poor dead Marcus Clarke—and, Heaven
knows, that story was no Whit exaggerated over
what happened often in those old convict days.
No man can feel or imagine to the full another’s
troubles. Th9re are men for ever followed by un-
merciful disaster.no matter what they do— men,
as Baudelaire says of the poet destroyed by Fate,
the curious Poe, whose foreheads bear the legend,
Never a chance—men for whom some diabolic Des-
tiny prepares misery from the cradle, over
whom the blind angel of Expiation hovers ever,
and to whom the fate of aotual damnation
comes at last, if it come at all. The comfortable
well-fed man of the world can afford to disbelieve
in such existences; but they are too plentiful.
When misery, the climax of tortured years, gets
so that a man can’t and won’t bear it any longer,
it’s no use telling that, man of hell. It can’t be
worse to him, he thinks; and even so, he always
says to himself, as Adam Lindsay Gordon put it,
“that may happen, but this is;” and he calcinates
that even the severest system of theology does not
insist on two hells, with no chance to escape either.
When ho has got thus far, he is fit to pull the
trigger. These observations are caused bya'young
man having shot himseif. He was 27, wel Educated,
in the heyday of manhood, and in a letter left on
the piano or somewhere he gives what we consider
a capital explanation why he pulled the trigger.
He says: “I am going to take my own life, having
made up my mind to do so more than a yeawftgo
Although I do not think that anybody cares a pin
about my reasons, yet it will give me some satis-
faction to state them. I am 27, a lawyer by pro-
fession but without any practice. I have always
been au unlueky devil, and the only thing that has
kept me from suicide long ago was the lingering
fear that there might bp a hereafter. I have
• arrived at the conclusion, however, that there is
not anything worse than w hat I have gone through
• and I’ll chance the future state. But I’ll not preach’
Two years ago I met a young lady. It don’t matter
wfere, nor what her name was. She was pretty. I
was, as usual, a fool, for her father had money and
I hadn’t, and I fell in love. She liked me, I think
but she had sensb, and she never Jet her sentiment
run away with her prospects. [ have laughed
many a time at a fellow who was fool enough to
kill himself for a girl; but that was befo-e I was
in love myself. She jilted me, for an old man with
a carriage and a bank aceonnt. Then I began to
drink hard, and went to the dovs. I was soon
penniless. I insured my life, and obtained a small
sum on the policy. Now that is all gone. I told
Blank when he made me that advance that I would
let him realise on the policy as soon as it was spent
and lam going to shoot myself to-night. This is’
no case of temporary insanity. I have as much
sense as anybody. 1 made a contract, and I’m
carrying it out. Bury me wherever you like.”
Tom Williams, of the “Pinch,” near Armi-
dale, although only married three times, is the
proud papa of 23 children. Not bad on a Pinch is
it?....Norman M'Dougall, manager Commercial
Bank, Ballina, suicided last week: hot weather
atop of bad health.... Hem y Noltenius, wine mer-
chant, old Adelaide identity, passed in his cheques
last week... .Miss Laing, of Birmingham, appointed
matron Maryborough (Q.) Hospital....” Jack the
Sailor” found dead under a tree a couple of miles
from Bourke. Jack used to say he was a brothef'
of Tooth, the brewer. However that may have
been, a more than fraternal love for Tooth's
hastened his departure to a place where relation
ship to a millionaire brewer is of no consequence
Archibald Macgregor is first warden of the first
Suva (Fiji) town council
• • •
The police found in the possession of a
vendor of obscene literature and photographs a
list of all his customers, their written orders for
dainty pictures, and a regular day-book showing
entries of all sold. The list comprised many of
the most aristocratic names in England An
enterprising chairmaker wrote asking Gladstone
to allow him to make a chair and table with wood
felled by the Prime Minister’s own hands. Soon
afterwards, he received from Hawarden a beech
trunk large enough for the purpose.


Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—
I cheerfully add my testimony to tho good
effects deriveable from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife suffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in the legs, in which
case the result was equally beneficial, it has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
confidently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
ploy<s in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£lOO.—A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representatives in various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Half-a-Crown a bottle
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney
Wholesale Depot for N.f
B.W.
Catarrh of the BLADDER.-Stinging irritation,
infiamation, all Kidney and similar Complaints
cured by “ Buchu-paiba.” Moses, Moss & Co
Sydney, General Agents.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
The Referee.
SPORTING* FIXTURES.
r»v gfyjii be glad to have this index posted up by
" secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general. 1
RACING.
canterbury Park Race Club January 19.
Ooonabarabran January 24, 25.
New England Races Ja S«rv26
t.o ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;::;;:::.january £
rSlirn T C ‘ February 1, 2.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 13,14,15.
WMgamb VnJ?) j.C: Autumn'.March 7.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
Ha 'Miury R.C. (Autumn) April 3. 5.
a j Autumn April 12,14,10,19.
Hay May 15,1*.
AQUATICS
National R egatta ■ ■ -J anu a r y 26.
S.A.C. Dingy Club Races .January 5 and Feb. 9.
ATHLETICS.
Mndgee Sports January 26
Franks v Murnby - February 9 11.16.
liourke Sheffield Handicap. May 20.
SPORTING AND ATHLETI MEMS.
It is stated the Hon. J. White pays Hales
a retaining fee of £lOO.
Lord Harris says he has no intention of
taking over a cricketing team to Canada-.
T. M'Alister, a well-known jockey in the
Tumut district, was recently thrown from his
horse with a fatal result.
The Victorian bred colt, Nelson, by King
Cole from My Idea, won the Derby, run at Auck-
land, N.Z., on New Year’s Day.
Old Terminus, of throat-cutting fame, is,
still up to his neck in it. He won two events at
the Hay New Yeat s Day races.
Bourke has decided on a Sheffield handi-|
cap, to be run on or about May 25; 175 yards; first
prize £2OO, second £8 ', and third £4O.
Englehardt, an American sporting writer,
and show manager, lias announced his intention
of shortly visiting Australasia with a number of
bicyclists and athletic novelties.
For Mr. F. Chissold’s trophy, shot at Can-,,
terbury, under the auspices of the Sydney Gun
Club, Messrs. Gannon and Davis shot their 6 birds
each, and Mr. Davis won the shoot-off.
Wrestling is now the craze amongst our
amateurs. A Kedfern football Hercules, and a,
brother of Professor Miller’s—and a big brother at 1
that—both members of the Sydney Gymnasium,
are to wrestle bel'oro the 19th February, at a
sociable to be held at the Gymnasium.
Townsville (Q.) held its race meeting on
New Year’s Day. Dr. Frost’s Blondin carried off
the Flying Handicap. H. Hodel's Newmarket,
appropriated the Welter Handicap. J. Nolan’s'
Buck defeated Newmarket by a head for the New
Year’s Gift; and H. Hodel’s Dandy carried off the
Hurry Scurry.
Ilaulan has leased his hotel at Canada for
a number of years, and, so that no one shal I assume
his title whilst he is away, he has left 2000 dollars
in the hands of the Turf, Field, and Farm, to
make a match with any sculler as soon as he re-
turns home; or he will bet 5000 dollars that on a
fine day he will beat the record of 20min. 3sec.
made by Hosmer at the Pittsburgh regatta.
For the past racing season, Aug. 1 to Jan.
8 inclusive, our crack light-weight jockey, Donald
Nicholson, heads the list with 17 wins out of 89
mounts. Hales’ record, although only scoring 15
wins, is better, as he only rode tO times Gough
comes third with 10 wins out of a possible 56. A
losiug mount means at least £O. So that it is
nearly as profitable to bo a j ockey as a night police-
man.
A series of walking matches, to come off
la Sydney, have been arranged between Willie
Franks, of Sydney, and Bernard Murphy, of Mel-
bourne, Murphy to allow Franks 125 yards start in
one mile, 500 yards in four miles, and 875 yards in
seven miles. The one mile is to be walked on 9th
February, the four miles on the 11th February,
and the seven miles, 16th February. The match ‘is
for £5O a side, best two out of three win the
Hikes.
Charles Croucher and George J. Hanley
had to explain to the Prahran bench (Vic.) how
they were lucky enough to win £260 from Edward
Roy, a furniture dernier, at ” Hiding the Jack and
Queen.” Edward admitted under examination
that he himself had often cheated at cards, and
that ’twas Croucher who showed him how to
“doctor” the “pasteboard,” until at last lie
thought himself as clever as his master. He
doesn’t think so now.
The “books” caught it hot over the last
meet at Randwick, but, as Sancho Panza would
say, “he laughs best who laughs last.” A quiet
parlour in a quiet suburban hotel, a clink fir so of
the dice, and all's well that ends well—for the
metallician. Quite a few citizens walked un-
ostentatiously opt, sadder but very much wiser
men. And now all the metallicians bave had their
boots hari-soled and heeled, and sport thunder-
and-lightning neckties.
In England, Mr. Lefevre heads the list of
“winning owners” for 1883, as he has “annexed”
no less a sum than £20,536; then follow, in the
order named. Lord Falmouth, with £18,434; Sir F.
Johnstone, £17,551; Mr. Robert Peck, £16,595; the
Duke of Hamilton, £12,529: Mr. L. de Rothschild,
£11,782. Mr. Lefevre owes bis position tc Tristan,
who, although a five year old. has won £7600; to
Hauteur, £2990; I adislaus, £36so—both three year
olds; and to Wild Thyme, a two year old, £4275.
Edward Trinkett is re ported to be medi-
tating another match with Beach, and to that end
has ordered a new wager boat from Donnelly and
Sullivan. He is of opinion that, if he had used
one of their fast and light craft in the last match
witr the Dapto man, he would have won. Ned
has oceans of pluck, but very little perspicuity.
Donnelly and Sullivan are also building a wager
boat for Pearco for his match with Clifford, and
another for Sharland, to replace the one which
went down with the TaStnan.
In England, Jem Mace has staked £5O to
bind a match for his new protegi, Jack Davis, of
Birmingham, to contend against any man in Eng-
land or Americaforfromthatsum upwards, under
London Prize RiDg rules or Queensberryrules. He
also offers to bet, on his own part, that, although
he is 52 years of age, no one can knock him out in
tour rounds, Queensberry rules, with soft gloves,
and states he is prepared to give Sullivan £lOO for
expenses if he will accept and go over to England.
The former challenge A. Greenfield of Birming-
ham has accepted, £lOO a side.
Miss Lucy Rad mall, sister of the Radmall
who was warned off the English turf some years
a ko, over the Brilliancy affair, is to be married
shortly to a young baronet, She is the young lady
“°.whom the late Mr. “Isonomy” Gretton left a
tnfie of some £BOOO a year. Mr. Gretton actually
bequeathed her £lBO,OOO, but the executors threat-
ened to try the question, and it was ultimately
compromised by her receiving an annual income
or £6OOO a year from his estate. The antecedents
fr'O certainly shaky, but £6OOO a year is about as,
good a recipe as we know of for regilding a tar-
nished reputation.
Mr. Wal'ton, the “ American Plunger,” is
reported, says the World, to have “dropped”
£30,000 during his recent visit to England. Ho
returned to New York last Saturday, with the
intention of providing the necessary funds to
liquidate his unsettled racing account over the
Liverpool and Alexandra Park meetings. Mean-
while, his absence has created the utmost con-
fusion and consternation amongst both debtors
and creditors; and amongst the latter is Charles
Archer (Lord Ellesmere’s trainer), to whom Mr.
Walton laid 2400 to 300 against Boswell for the
Liverpool Cup, with tho proviso of his having
“ the run of the market.”
A small attendance was the order of the
day at the Victorian Club Race meeting, although
the weather was fine, and n first-class bill of fare
placed before the public. The ball was set rolling
by the Hurdle Race, Avon by RingAvood by a
length from Sparke, Agitation third. Manfred
defeated Xantippe for the TAVo-year-old Selling
Stakes, Loporelio third. Frying-pan started at 10
to 1 fop the Victorian Club Cup, but the odds could
not stop him, and he Avon comfortably from
Chuckster; Lesbia, three-quarters of a length
away, third. Amelia Victoria Avon the Selling
Race, Hpre’s Luck second, Hannibal third. That
thorough steeplechaser, Songster, won the Steeple-
chase by a good length from Napoleon ; and
Fryingpan, with lOst. Ift. up, finished a good day’s
sport fly romping away with the Bookmakers’
Purse, Don Quixote second, and Malua third.
Bush fires and the annual races were the
most lively items of Beganews on the 10th and 11th
inst. So far as the races were concerned, the sport
opened with the Maiden Plate, which resulted in a
Avin for Lady Pitsford. Five sported silk for the
Bega Cup, appropriated by TantaAvanglo from
Mirabeau, after a good race; Reindeer, third.
Dove obtained the Welter Handicap; Lady Fleet-
wood ran away with the Firdt Foal Stakes from a
field of eleven; and Yun*imie just managed to
land the Member’s Handicap by the shortest of
necks from Dove. Tho second day opened with
tho Hurdle Race, won by Silly Billy, two lengths
away from Kaffir; Skylark, third. Lady Fleet-
wood took tho Nursery Handicap from start to
finish. Tantawanglo led Reindeer by half a length
for tho Town Plate; Mirabeau, third. The Flying
Handicap fell to Merricumbene. Mirabeau finished
up the meeting by winning tho Forced Handicap
,a length away from Yurainmie; Reindeer, third.
! CRICKET.
The “batting ” and the “bowling” are the topics
of the day,
And “ elevens” quite the heroes of the hours;
A poet gets “ the needle ” as he listens to the Avay
Men talk about the “ players ” and their powers;
For a sense of fallen greatness makes his life ap-
pear a blank,
And rage illui»es his eyeballs as he glowers.
An opinion of my talents at the present time I
hold ' *
Far smaller than I’ve ever held before,
gince very few in number are tho “wickets” I
have bOAvled,
And seldom have I made a decent “ score;”
■Though I love to run a score up at the little poet’s
pub..
And never love to settle it—that’s more!
“Owing to the Betting and Tolallsator Prosecutions in Melbourne and Adelaide, a
regular exodus to Sydney of the members of the ring will shortly take place.”— DAILY
PAPER.
In speaking of the usual custom of horsey
men in treating a broken bone with an ounce of
lead, “Augur” says:—“l remember when Mari-
byrnong ran for tho Derby in 1866, ho fell and
broke one of his fore legs at the fetlock joint.
When Mr. Fisher was informed of the extent of
the injury, he gave orders to have the colt shot,
and steps were taken to carryout his instructions;
but when his intending destroyer arrived at the
spot, the son of Fisherman was hobbling about on
three legs. Mr. W. t'ilgate, who was then in
charge of the Maribyrnong stud, determined to
save the colt’s life, with the result that he is now
about the most famous among all the sires in Aus-
tralia. Another more notable case is that of Um-
berto. Thiscolt, when a yearling, broke one of his
hind legs, and, being a valuable animal, Mr. W. E.
Dakin determined to make an attempt to save
him. The bone quickly began to knit, and at two
years old he was able to go faster than any other
colt in the Morphetville paddocks. Now he is
training at Flemington, and probably Victorians:
will some day see him running into a forward,
position in a big race.”
At a meeting of the National Regatta
Committee, on the Bth, it was decided that the
prize for senior fours should be £4O if crews from
other colonies competed, and £25 if otherwise;
that the 24ft. open boats compete for the Mayor’s
trophy; that the prizes for the champion race be
£3O for Ist, and £lO for 2nd, if fiv« compete; and
that the prizes for all comers in light skiffs be £l5
for first and £5 for second. Crews have been formed
at the Sydney and Mercantile clubs for the senior
fours. The four from the senior shed consists of
Moppett, Webster, Brodie, and E. Simpson, and
the Merks. are represented by Seale, Pickering,
Brett, and Martin. There is not much to choose
between the two crews, but as a rule the Sydney
crews pull in better form than the men from the
other side of the Quay; and if this four proves no
exception to the general rule, we feel inclined to
pin our faith to the light blue. En passant, we
saw Pearce out on Sunday, and he did not by any
means take our fancy. He was pulling better than
he usually does with his body, but he seemed to be
feathering under water, and his left scull threw up
a miniature water-spout at the finish of every
stroke.
Says an English paper:—“ln the colonies,
where there are so many expert horsemen, feats
of daring horsemanship are by no means rare.
But it is not often in any part of the world that
such a feat as the following can be chronicled :
‘ Mr. Trotter’s extraordinary feat of horsemanship
makes one almost a believer in the myths about
the Centaurs ; for in a run from Garradme Gorse
(in which, by the bye, I think he had two falls) his
reiDS got broken, and I believe the entire head-
stall came off his hunter's head. Nothing daunted,
he pursued perseveringly, steering his mount by
his crop (a jury-rudder, indeed), and managed to
get over this largely-fenced country for some dis-
tance in this perilous fashion.’ ” Talking of
rough riding, it would seem buckjumpers are fast
dying out in Australia, and it is not at all an un-
likely thing that in a few years a buckjumper will
be a rar|fy in the colonies. One old squatty, him-
self a noted rough rider in his day, gave us as his
opinion that buckjumping, with very few excep-
tions, was principally ou account of the short !
handling the young horses received, and the
“flash” riders, who were so common in tha early
days of the colony. He assured us he had seen a
horse cut out of a mob and yarded, roped till a
man got on his back, and then turned loose out of
the yard, barebacked and unbridled, the rider
being accoutred only with a pair of spurs and a
short stick in each hand. We think this rather
puts in the shade the English gentleman mentioned
in the first part of this par.
At the V.R.C. meeting at Flemington, on
New Year’s Day, a shocking amount of profanity
was gotthrough over the five-shilling “ luncheon ”
—far more profanity than luncheon, in fact. A
limited assortment of skinny fowls, and the other
ghostly elements of a racecourse “luncheon,”
were laid out on long tables underneath the
frandstand, and there it was, don’t you know.
t would have been a good plain feed for fifty
people (not of the aldermanic persuasion), but the
management, unfortunately, had displayed too
great a liberality in the matter of seats, and, as
those seats filled up, it was sad to watch the
hungry “backers ” wandering about the rooms in
search of grub which the fortunate pioneers of
the feast had already consumed. There were
three or four waiters—one to every hundred
people—lurking in dark corners, but, as they were
unable to provide fresh eatables, they feared to
venture forth into the open and face their
voracious customers; for anything in the shape of
a really plump waiter would have been cut up
into “joints” on the spot. Men who, until that
unhappy day, had considered themselves Chris-
tians, engaged in despicable wrangles over the
clean-picked carcase of an antiquated duck, or
such like vanities; and the scene grew so distress-
ing that many a philosopher, pocketing his disap-
pointment and a morsel of bread, made a hurried
exodus to the nearest refreshment bar outside, to
moralise, over a pork pie, upon the splendid
financial speculation of providing a “five-shilling
luncheon.”
The meteoric burst of zeal recently dis-
played by the Melbourne police in arresting
thirteen mags, for being mags, has had cold water
thrown on it by the magistrates’ decision; the mere
fact of the “professional gambler” (that’s what the
D.T. terms them) being able to show a modest
bank account, or finding a witness to come forward
and assert that the p.g. had assisted him in his
business, being held as satisfactory proof of re-
spectability. Considering that the mag who hasn’t
a “ little bit of brass ” by him can scarcely be re-
garded as a very dangerous member of the fra-
ternity, this decision is particularly amusing.
Police evidence is, in these cases, simply every-
thing; it is a detective’s business to “know’em;”
anw, although he may have a habit of not knowing
’em when it suits his purpose, still, at the same
time, when the D’s do wake up, it is a thousand
pities that they should be snubbed by an innocent
Bench. According to tho theory of the Melbourne
magistrates, any London “mobsman” with a de-
ceit show of jewellery—“ good stuff ’’—about him
could follow his profession with impunity; but, as
a matter of fact, the proprietors of licensed
houses in the great metropolis can always have a
man who “is known” expelled from their pro-
mises if they wish it, the “swell's ” patent leather
boots and glittering rings notwithstanding. The
stalwart “Robert” who is called in to do tho job
can usually spot his man by instinct; the pro-
duction by the mag of a neatly engraved card
with an air of injured innocence deceives him
not, but a “ come on, and don’t let’s have so much
of it,” quickly terminates the controversy.
The Melbourne Argus is getting quite
sporting in its tendencies, and recently produced
a grave leader in disparagement of “high-class”
colonial cricket. The Argus complains that the
batting of Murdoch and Horan, in the Intercolo-
nial Match, was devoid of the “dash” that we
expect from amateurs. That slogging provides
the best sport for onlookers is undeniable; but the
Argus goes on to say“ With us there is growing
up a race of semi-professionals, who have appa-
rently adopted, or are in process of adopting, all
the traditions of their fully fledged brethren of
England.” Now, this is simple “ bosh.” The best
team of English professionals is vastly inferior to
a crack amateur eleven in point of batting talent
—so much so, that the “pros.” admitted superior-
ity in the bowling department is unable to prevent
the annual matches of “Gentlemen p. Players”
from almost invariably terminating in favour of
the former. In compiling big scores, therefore,
our “ semi-professionals as the Argus so cour-
teously terms them—are certainly not "adopting
the traditi'ons of their fully fledged brethren” at
home. Some of the best scores among English
professionals, of late years, were made by Henry
Jupp. Well, in the event of a long stand being
made by Jupp and W. G. Grace (as frequently
happened in “North v. South” matches), it was
odds on the “champion” knocking up a “cen-
tury ” before the professional had completed half
that number; and yet Grace, even in his younger
days, seldom or never scored with greater rapi-
dity than has Murdoch in his recent matches.
The Irish Sportsman, in speaking about
the recent Malone-Aplitt race, says:—'“ Aplittmay
or may not be qualified for relegation to the list
of ‘has beens,’ but we would not say that such
qualification arose from the fact of his being
beaten by such a grand sprinter as the ex-County
Clare man, whose sterling performance must still
bo fresh in the minds of all Irish athletes, In 1881,
when the American ilyer, L. E. Myers, competed
at the English Championship Sports, Malone ran in
the same neat as the Manhattan athlete, and, see-
ing that he had second place safe, he did not run
himself out, but so great was the excitement at
Myers being beaten that the judge inadvertently
placed Cleaver second to Cowie. The English
press were unanimous in agreeing that the judge’s
verdiot was wrong, and in conversation some time
afterwards with Cleaver, the latter frankly ad-
mitted to us that Molone beat him fair and square.
At this same mooting Malono was seoond to
another Irish athlete in P. Davin in the
long iump, clearing 23 feet 7 inches to
winner’s 22 feet 11 inches. At the sports
in 1882, ill-luck again attended the Irish
sprinter, as, after winning his trial heat with
W. P. Phillips (the ultimate winner), he was almost
left at the post in the iinal. Malone has run 120
yards in 12 seconds, 440 yards in 51 2-sth seconds,
cleared sft. 9in. in height, and put the 161 b. over
37ft., so that, for all-round excellence, ho only
owned his superior in P. Davin, who has long since
acquired the right to be looked upon as the man
of a century. For the further information of our
Australian friends, we may state that Davin has
the record for the long jump (23ft. 2in.), and high
jump (6ft. 2Min.), while he has run 100 yards in
10 l-sth secs., 120 yards hurdles,'in 16 2-sth secs., and
and has put the 161 b. weight 39ft. 6in.
After Heenan fought Tom Sayers, he was
engaged to box with Young Broome, at Howe’s
circus, at the time the circus was at Chalk Farm.
Tom Sayers, accompanied by a few friends, went
to see the Broome and Heenan set-to. Sayers,
thinking the Benicia Boy had lost his science, was
eager to have a shy at him. Heenan was informed
that Sayers was anxious to light, and he agreed to
have a bout with his old rival. Sayers was notified,
and lost no time in putting on the buckskins, and
was soon facing the Benicia Boy. As soon as the
rival champions met each other, Sayers, no doubt,
thought of Heenan’s modus operandi at Farn-
borough, and in facing Heenan, instead of measur-
ing with his left, as pugilists generally do, he drew
off with his right, and landed a terriflo blow on
Heenan’s mouth, which rattled his ivories, drew
the cork, and for a second surprised him. Sayers’
friends cheered and jeered, and Heenan said ho
did not know what was in the wind; but suddenly
the thought struck him that it was a put-up lob,
and that Sayers was trying to best him. In a flash
Heenan took in the surroundings, and feinting
with his left, let go his right, which landed on
Sayers’ neck, and at the same instant delivered a
crushing blow on Sayers’ nose, knocking him
down. Sayers was up in a minute, but only to be
knocked down again. When Sayers got up the
second time he had atapped cracked nose, and two
blackened eyes. Sayers’ friends left the circus
crestfallen, Sayers afterwards remarked that the
blows lie received from Heenan in the circus was
like being struck with a locomotive. Of course,
this is the Yankee account of the affair.
The Snails’ Bay Regatta people had a gala
day on Saturday h st, when no less than 15 events
were gone through. Messrs. Elkington, Gretton,
and Robinson were starter, umpire, and judge, re-
spectively for the various rowing events; W.
Deloitte and Captain Broomfield acted as starter
and umpire in the sailing ditto; and a fresh south-
easter fluttered out the bunting gaily from tbo
flagship, the Port Jackson. For the nalf-deeked
races, the Asteroid won the first class by any
number of minutes, and the new boat, Maritana,
won the second class; but owing to a muddle in
the wording of the conditions of the race, she was
bundled into the first class, and the lanthe was
awarded the prize; the Kosetta waltzed away with
the 22ft. open boat prize; and the Adelphi, as
usual, splendidly handled, won the 24ft. open boat
race. Messrs. Donaldson and C. Williams won the
maiden double sculls, and we cannot lose this
opportunity of congratulating Mr. Williams
upon at last having won such a race. In
our youth we recollect Charles pulling in maiden
races, and now, in our middle age, we near of his
winning one. Persevere, my boy, and perhaps, in
our old age, we may hear of you winning a junior
contest. It seemed liko “old times, Rocks,” for
me Pandora to score a win in the 19 skiff race;
and it seemed to us as if Mr. Middleton ought to
go homo and chop his boats up for allowing
the plucky little 9-stoncr, J. Thomson, to beat
him home for the senior skulls. The Ouida put
the other 16-footers through, and the Victor appro-
priated the prize for the 14-footers. The race of
tne day turned up in th« senior double sculls,
which resulted in a win for the brothers Gaden,
after a desperate struggle with Messrs. Brett ana
Seale. The Maggie won the canvas dingy race
from a field of ten; Messrs. Langley and Nash won
the residents’ race; the Vernon boys had a race;
and the day’s sport concluded with the usual gig
and dingy flutter.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
A week or two back, Prof. G. H. D’Har*
court, of the Sydney Gymnasium, met with an
unfortunate accident through treading partly on
the edge of a mattrass and partly off It. His foot
turned under him, and the small bone snapped at
the ancle. Mr. D’Harcourt is now able to get
about again. The foot is weak, and will have
to bo saved for some time yet The Gun*
ning cricketers travelled all the way to Yass on
New Year’s Day to get a drubbing ftom the local
team. The scores were 136 and 91 The Bega-
Cooma cricket match, played at Cooma, resulted
in a win for the local team by eight wickets.
* * *
Archer has scored a best on record in the
matter of winning mounts, his total for the year
being 252, with 399 losses. Wood has won 186, and
lost 437—1 n a recent exhibition, Peall, the En-
glish billiard ist, made breaks of 380 (124 spots). 118
(37 spots), 129 (41 spots).


CHIARINI’S
ROYAL ITALIAN *5!
AND
PERFORMING ANIMALS.
TRIUMPHANT and CONTINUED SUCCESS !
OUR TWO ENORMOUS AND PERFECTLY
WATBR-PROOF PAVILIONS
crowded nightly by
Thousands of astonished & delighted
SPECTATORS,
and on Saturday, our opening night,
HUNDREDS WERE TURNED AWAY,
bhable to obtain admission to the vast and per-
fectly-appoiqted amphitheatre.
CRIARINI'S GREAT COMBINATION
of
AUtISTIC, EQUINE, AND ZOOLOGICAL
MARVELS
is pronounced PEERLESS bv press and public.
jpjy Thj management spare neither trouble nor
expense, in order to (.nsuiu tho comfort and con
venlenco of visitors, and will have tho honour of
presenting, in rapid succession, a largo number ot
STARTLING AND BRILLIANI NOVELTIfS
never before seen in Australia.
Performance every evening at 8.
Wednesdays & Saturdays;
at 2.30 p.m ,
GRAND
FAMILY MATINEES.
SPECIAL RATES TO SCHOOLS,
G. AG RATI.
Genoral Agent.
O
PB R A
'T.wwee and Mitnagof W. J. Wilson
Stage Manager for Mr. Darrell.. Mr. J. 11. Ruin ford
Notice. —To prevent disappointment, recuro your
tickets during the dav, or bo onrlv atnight
Dret-s Circle, ss; Stulls, PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Uox oiHo« hi MticiiorU in's, 411 t,*o.-»i. iHkmTs
may be bad at Roberts’, tobacconist, next Theatre.
THIRD WEEK THIRD WEEK
of the most successful of ail successes.
Tho greatest sensational dromn of modern times—
THE SUNNY SOUrII TIIE SUNNY SOUTH,
litteu by Australia’s Actor-Author,
G BO AGE DARRELL,
THIS EVENING, THURSDAY, JANUARYIo.
Third week and unabated success of
GEORGB DARRELLS
Anedo-Australiuii Drama
Tnil SUNNY SOUTH.
Furniture supplied from Globe Furniture Ware-
house, i ark and CasfleroHgh streets
N. 11- Children in arms not admitted
fIIHEATRE ROYAL.—Und rthe Manatremontof
I Messrs. Williamson. G akn*r, tt Misohovb.
THT3 THURSDAY EVENINO,
and every evening until further notice,
THE G HAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME
of
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK,
Prices of Admission :
DUE ; S CIRCLE, Kb.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
Academy of music.
Lessee -> - - W. 11. Thompson.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
THOMPSON’S it*U>BSAL MIRROR OF THE
EGYPTIAN WAR.
LAVISH OF NEW YEAR’S
GIFTS
will take place, at the discretion of the proprietor,
without the slightest clement of chanee.
Lecturer, W. 11. Thompson. Agent, H. Eastwood.
I HOIIHN
Author and Actor.
‘ONE OF THE MOST VERSATILE ACTORS
ON THE STAGE."
"MMENSE SUCCESS IN MELBOURNE!
"THE WANDERER,”
AND
“MYLES-NA-COPPALEEN.”
SONGS encored again and again.
TOUR POSTPONED,
In eonsequonco of having accepted a ‘‘SPECIAL
ENGAGEMENT'’ with Signor Majeroni. Thunks
lo C. F. Coints, E q., Theatre Royal, Sandhmst.
lor i tier of L‘2s weekly. Letters, Telegrams, Ac.,
n speeding tutu to «ngagements. to ho addressed
« 4.i etin Office, t. dii'3 , N.S W. Ti 1 chi Hud lor.”
QTlfcLe EBelleutole ZBuLgfgries I
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
backboard waooons. and evert style of booby.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
s«
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
Tho Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION.
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we l elievo
it will Fully ami Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DETOT :
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL), SYDNEY.
Peapes & Shaw’s
STANDARD” CLOTHING.
WE have now open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
w E na\ OEN^IEM KN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be louud inany house in the city.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
STAND A UD CLOTHING
is
THE BEST VALUE
IN SYDNEY.
“STANDARD” TWKED SUITS," 325. 6d., 355., 425., 455., 505., 555.
BLUB SERGE SUITS, 35*. and 425.
TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitable for garden or office.
11 WBED SAC COATS, 16s. 6d. and 21s.
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
TWEED TROUSERS, If, B. 6d., 13s. 6d., 16s. 6d.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 3Cs.
NICHOLLS* LIGHT BITMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS.
LIGHT TWE' D OVERCOATS, 435., 505., 655.
••SPECIAL” COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
CnnTSTY’3 HATS, all new summer shapes.
UUYS’ MAN-O-WAK SUITS, guernsey and
ItELIAULIi' ,n M ACiNTOSH CLOTHIN G.-All
I*l 4.TS
white’FLANNEL SACS, for cricketing or boat-
ing. 238. 6d.
FLANNEL TROUSERS, 13b Od. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9a. Gd. each ; 3 for 275.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 6s. 6d., 108. 6d., 12s. 6d , 14s. Gd.,
18s. 6d., 21a.
DUCK TROUSERS, 12s. 6d. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, Iss. 6d.,
18s. Gd., 21s.
BLACK ALPACA COATS, 10s. 6d., 13s. 6d„ 15s. 6d.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. Gd., 21s.
PEAPES and SHAW, George-street.
OUR MERCERY DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
Season.
GENT S COTTON LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fanoy
stripes, from 12s. per dozen.
GENT'S UNDKK SHIRTS, India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Baibriggan,
Anglo-Ind‘an, and Spun Silk, with Hants to match.
GENT’S WHITE SHIRTS, O.F. or 8.8., 308., 40s, 60s. half-dozen. _
FRENCH PRINTED REGATTA and OXFuKD SHIRT, collars attached, 305., 405., 435. the half-dozen.
NEW LINEN COLLARS.—The Beresiord, Seymour, Army and Navy, General, Admiral, with patent
side tabs tor holding scarf in position. w . _ „ . „ .
SCARFS in all the Newest shapes, Colourings, and Designs.—The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
Albert, Four-in-Hand. „ , . „
UMBRELLAS, 8,10,12, 14,1(5 ribs. Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, trom 10s. 6d. to 3i>s.
THE NkW TITANIA UMBRELLA, lolds neater ami i loser than any umbrella, 1 guinea each.
THE NEW COM BIN ATIOin BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
BILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 215., 305., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-atrect.
The most
Suitable
For a Lady
or Gentleman
IS A COVENTRY MACHINISTS COMPANY’S
TRICYCLE
For LADIES or GENTLEMEN.
The Ladies' ‘Cheylesmore’
Is the most perfect Tricycle made.
or
BICYCLE
For BOYS, YOUTHS, or ADULTS.
The SPECIAL CLUB
Is the most perfect Bicycle made.
OUR JUVENILE TRICYCLES are superior to any
that have ever before been, offered in Australia.
OUR BOY’S' BICYCLES are fitted and finished in best
style, handsome in appearance, and thoroughly reliable.
PRICES OF TRICYCLES
Range f rom £5 ss. for Juvenile sizes
to 30 guineas for our highest styles.
PRICES OF BICYCLES
Range from 8 guineas for Bogs' to
25 guineas for our highest finish.
We send, post free, the handsomest Catalogue in thetrColony. Write for it.
J ames MAETIH i C OMPY -
*“ Opposite Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE Of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wha r ves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers lor MELBOURNE: MONDAYS, WED.
NESDAYS, and FRIPAYS. _
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON. TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bria.
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg. Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships;
Buninyong .. 3000 Geelong
Barrabool
Burvrah
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
Gabo..
♦Balmain
* To arrive.
1000
1000
1500
500
400
3000
600
Keilawarra ..
Konoowarra
Leura ..
Moreton
ltodondo
You Yangs ..
500
900
1509
1500
000
1300
700
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
TO THEATRICAL MANAGERS AND
SPECULATORS.
For sale.-rainer’s original pano-
RAMA of the
AMERICAN WAR,
and the New and Beautiful Panorama of the
RUSSO-TURKISH WAR.
The above exhibitions, having cleared for the
proprietor a net profit of £30,000, are for sale, Mr,
Rainer, now being Independent, wishes to retire.
If not disposed of wi'hin two months, the pano-
rama will proceed to South Africa and Indie*
where u, el. i in . .o years £7OOO, and where
another spit-.-did and certain large returns
await it.
BLISS & PERYMAN, Auctioneers, &c ,
32 Collins-street, Melbourne,
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, &c.
TO LET, the above large and well-appointed
Hall. Sitting accommodation for over 200
people ; splendid piano, scenery, &e. Terms
reasonable. Apply to
11. HURLEY TORR,
Hon. Secretary,
School of Arts, Cudal.
WHARF LABOURERS’ PICNIC.-On the
snowy strand and amid the sylvan glades
of CHOWDER. ANNIVERSARY DAI. January
26th.-To be preceded by a PROUKSSION, includ.
ingAhe Triumphal Car of Neptune and a group oi
Hi a iorical Characters. Splen. id programme of
t-ports and Pastimes, embracing Boat Raeiuir,
Athletics, Diu cine Competition, &c., &c. t er-
cantile Band of 24 performers. Tickets, 2s. The
A 1 Fresco Gathering of the Season.
D. DORAN, Secretary.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 15th January, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.— TENDERS are invited for the fel-
low ing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Oifice in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of tho successful
tender er will be announced, if possible, before th«
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accepl
the lowest or any tender.
F. A. WRIGHT.


FRESE’S HAMBURG TEA
THE GREAT GERMAN FAMILY MEDICINE.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to he a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Calds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney, and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c„ caused by an impure state, or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Scrofula,
cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventitive against con-
tagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and Con-
tagious Vapours. It purities the Blood, cleanses
the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the whole
system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the bowels
in a mild and certain way. It works on the system
generally, causing little or no discomfort. It will
prevent almost any disease if used at least once a
month. It restores the appetite, it removes the
distress caused by eating hearty food or overload-
ing the stomach, and will be found effectual as a
Family Remedy where a simple purgative only is
needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT. Full
directior s in English. French, Spanish, and Ger-
man with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, aud medicine dealers throughout
the colonies at ONE SKILLING a packet. Whole-
sale Depot for New South WaIes—ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, Sydney.
The wharf labourers of Sydney intend
going in for what they call a f6te champetre on
Anmversary Day. According to the terms of the
advertisement, it is to be “ the al fresco gathering
of the year,” and will take place on “the snowy
strand and amid the silvan glades of Chowd°r.”
Tall talk, this, for tue pliers of the hook and
truck I The affair is to be preceded by a procession
in which Neptune and his wife, Captain Cook,
Nelson and Blake, Julius Caesar, Sir Francis Drake,
Brian Boru, and about a dozen other historical
characters are to take part—or rather to be repre-
sented in appropriate costume. The programme
of sports is to be a comprehensive one, embracing
boat and foot racing, competition for Highland
flings and Irish jigs, pigs with greasy tails, and
several novelties in the shape of athletics. All
this comGS of the wharf labourers having an
energetic, versatile, and fertile-minded president,
but as they are a hard-working and deserving
body of men, it is to be hoped they will pull
through all right—which there is every prospect
of their doing, as the tickets are going off like a
ship down the greasy slides at her launch.
Knowing absolute purity, its power-
fully invigorative and corrective action, and its
value as an anti-dyspeptic and diuretic, it is no
wonder that physicians so frequently prescribe
Wolfe’s Schnapps,
WHAT CAN ONE GET THAT’S WORTH
GIVING AS A CHRISTMAS GIF L’
WITHOUT EXTRAVAGANT OUTLAY?
The above is a question which a million people
will be asking themselve* this season. One wants
to .show affection and good-will by a handsome
and appropriate gift, which will be tasteful and
useful. It is the most puzzling and tiresomo ,lob
to And anything which answers these require-
ments, and is yet obtainable at a reasonable price.
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 474 George-
strect, opposite the Central Entrance to the
Markets)
has solved-this problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQUISITE GIFTS from ss. to £5:
Articles of dainty design and enduring beauty,
which will give delight at the first glance, and
will last a lifetime.
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
of the alchemists laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
h , avc heen thrown into the shade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
■ mental Gold cannot, after years of wear, be dis-
tinguished lrom the costliest wares of the gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
an , ( J lnfenor designs are manufac-
tureaorit. Ihe discoverers have not condescended
to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
o „ metal.
tyt goods arc mounted with the NEW
DIAMONDS, another masterpiece of the chemists
of the nineteenth century-artiiicial stones which
e i n .°b]est brilliants in Are and glitter, and
rival them in hardness.
Paris h ave, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
receive their happiest conceptions. The most
graceful Parisian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
CALL AND INSPECT-EXACTLY OPPOSITE
THE MARKETS;
or, if a, resident of the country, write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
nn« haa pestercd buy, hecause we know that no
t j V i l , e^ ed our ff°°ds without being
astonished and delighted with their variety ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty-and such
time*** am ° D *
Here arc a few lines for customers' guidance
At S«. each.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Ring.
A Set of Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A Pair of Jewelled Ear-rlngi
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. Od. each.
Handsome Brilliant Kin*.
Beautiful Charm.
Eleg-ant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp,
fashionable Hair-pin#
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOn. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem King - .
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £1 each.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch
Ladies TasseiJed Slide Albert.
Gen pendant " Esthetlc Fob Cha,n » with Steel
Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At £2 25.. cacli.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting-, or Open Face,
with Orystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases
aM 1 J,l! ll f hod Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Cham.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady s very handsome Hunting: or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watoh, in Oriental
Time keeper fuU J ewelled - and splendid
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and tassels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystai Glass, in sterling Silver Caues-a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder-ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold AJbert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £54 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Oliver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Ge it s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At £5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— lf the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this Is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the mouey, deducting only the trifle
ex J? e . nt^e(^. oll postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money lor the articles not kept. Every watch
soid by us will be rated and accompanied bv a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—" Christmas Pantomime .p.B.
Opera House— “ The Sunny South” ib.
academy or Music—“ Zulu War” ib.
Chiarini’s Royal Italian Circus ib.
It would seem, somehow, from the fact of
Chiarini averaging something like £6OO nightly, so
far, that there are less Gradgrinds now than in the
days of Sleary; though, to our certain knowledge,
there has been but a small decrease in the quantity
of Bounderbys. Chiarini’s Circus reminded us at
once of “Hard Times.” It takes a big thing to
remind us of anything in the ordinary way, and
that is how, perhaps, our memory was pricked.
For Chiarini, this time, has dono things in a
manner which would have opened the eyes of
Sleary, and would considerably exercise the mind
of another great hippie entrepreneur of the pre-
sent day—we allude to the redoubtable Ashton,
who, wo believe, is touring, with dignity' and suc-
cess, the most Northern parts of most Northern
Queensland. But they call anything a circus up
there. We remember a great event occurring in
a township of which wo were at that time lay-
reader, mining-registrar, clerk of petty sessions,
and the police force. We had occasion, one morn-
ing, to incarcerate two strange men of foreign
mien who bad attacked our only J.P.—a Dutch
storekeeper—over a quarrel about a game of
tamberoora. The magistrate being inaccessible to
administer punishment or give evidence, incon-
sequence of being asleep with his head in the
kitchen fireplace, we were obliged to incarcerate
the individuals referred to in the slab-hut on the
flat, until such a time as bis Worship should re-
vive. The constabulary, C.P.S., &c., of the town-
ship was enjoying his midday siesta after the usual
load of beef and damper, when he was wakened
by signs of a riot. Lazily requesting the
riot, through a chink in the slabs, to go home
and get sober, he once more composed himself
to slumber. The noise, however, increasing,
the constaDulary turned out, and, glancing
reproachfully at the fashionable hairdresser,
who appeared to be a ringleader in the affair, said
“What's up?” “Well, that’s a good ’un,” was
the chorus, in reply. “ Don’t you know what you
done?” cried the blacksmith. “No.” “You
don’t.?” yelled the saddler. “No—what?” was
our uneasy query. “ Why,” cried the indignant
riot, “ You've been and locked up the bloomin’
circus!’’ So we had. For there was the rest of it
outside; a two-horse dray, a boy contortionist
with the blight, a w< eping woman who played the
organ, two monkeys, and a large white horse, that
had probably been beguiled from a cider mill.
* * m
St. Leon’s (just gone), with its pensive
camels and low comedy bear, was a capital circus:
Cole's—the melting sweetness of whose steam-
piano is yet ringing in our ears—was a show to be
remembered with mingled feelings; Cooper and
Bailey always gave you plenty of sawdust and
"Joe Millers” for your money; but Chiarini s,
now showing in Belmore Park, can give points to
the lot, and beat them. Belmore Park is now one-
half circus; the other half is scanty turf, peopled
by recumbent boys and girls, who make derisive
remarks about the people going in, and curse
Fate, until they render night hideous, for leaving
them without the requisite “two bob”—the low-
est price charged for admission. We got into the
tent just in time to see the Mascotte entree, a pic-
turesque series of evolutions by four
four gentlemen, in costumes of a gorgeous cha-
racter, the whole being led by “Madame Reid
Ponente,” erstwhile Nellie Reid, who looked
splendid, and had a tremendous reception. We
should have enjoyed the act more than we did had
it not been for the “ Madame” and the “Ponente!”
A sly way we’ve got of putting it.
* * *
Next was—we quote the bill—“ the double
trepeze. by Messrs. French and Angelo (late of the
Folies Bergdres (sic), Paris.” High up in the air
these wonders worked, their style being superb,
their confidence unlimited. But equally wonder-
ful, in its way, was the act of Miss Rosina, who
did things with cups and bails and sticks on
horseback that would puzzle half the world to do
on foot. We know, indeed, nothing more ex-
traordinary, unless it be the way the old topers at
Punch's conjure down the Parliamentary (we
have an Inspector of Measures, now) pints
of colonial. We must tell you, too, of
the Walhalla brothers, who play two fiddles,
mixed and mingled together, and produce
music of adiverting nature; and we must certainly
not forget the astounding performance of a
“coal black Prussian stallion,” introduced by no
less a person than Guiseppe Chiarini himself. This
horsq, we should say, possesses the intelligence of
at least ten country editors, and is prettier than
the prettiest picture. Then, there was Miss Ida
Stoodley, who danced on horseback, and Perry, a
clown, who sang a very dismal comic song indeed,
and who perpetrated the following joke, known
to have first been spoken by Nero :—Clown : “If
a pretty girl kissed you. what would you do?”
Ring-master: “Kiss her back.” clown: “I
wouldn’t.” Ring-master: “ Then what would you
do, sir?” Clown: " I wouldn’t kiss her back, I’d
kiss her lips.” 245 b c.—Thunder !
• • •
All the rest was equally good, especially a
surprising bareback act over hurdles by Charles
Stoodley, and an act by Madame Zephyr, who
balances her little daughter upon a triangular
pole. Not so good, though, we consider, was the
riding of Frank Barry, who took nearly as long to
get through his four hoops as a camel would to
travel through the eye of a needle. The piece de
resistance, though, was undoubtedly the exhibition
by Mons. Abadie of the performing elephants and
and lions. It is painful to notice, though, how
terribly the lion-tamer has suffered at the hands -
or rather feet and tusks—of his pets. The tent
was packed, and as Daniel- the lions' den recalled
to us his immortal name-used to advertise in his
bills, “Several ladies overcome by the perform-
ance, fainted during the evening.” The courtesy,
we may add, of the General Agent is to be com-
mended. It was Agrati-fying thing.
* * *
tl George, who announces the last nights of
The Sunny South,” has scooped the pooi during
the mouth by dint of real hard won ami a capital
company. The Majeronis come after George. We
shouldn’t like to come right on Mr. Darrell 8 heels,
in any city in which he has been playing a part in
a v»lvet jacket, Bedford cords, and riding-boots.
However, a pleasant good-bye to them all, espe-
cially to the very sunny South as the very funny
lawyer (“that’s a staggerer”); to Edith Pender, as
the love-lorn Clarice; to Jim ltainford (“I’m only
a digger, I am ”); and to B. N. Jones, as the wicked
usurer. who is mad because he can’t marry the
£ al - Good - bye, pleasant people; here’s your
healths, your lamilies’ good healths, and may you
nve long and prosper.
** * *
A recital by the Euphonic Society was
pulled off on Saturday night, at the room, in Stan-
tey-street, Woolloomooloo. The room was rather
crowded, and there must have been at least 50
people there. Fiddles, flags, bows, drumsticks,
oassoons, flutes, tambourines, triangles, clarionets,
ana curios were scattered about. Lyres, of the
Sfev.- 8ha P e affected by Orpheus wheh he went
alter his old woman (the only authentic instance
a + ? a “' 8 B , °' n B' to for his wife), were pasted
w? j bottom of the stairs, and in spare places
round the room. Then a move was made with
in^^ er^ureto “Zampa." Youknowhowit starts
with a rush like the Queen’s bagpiper at Bal-
thi'rl ’ w 2 le , n tackling “Tu llocligorum ” to warn
i that it is dinner-time, and seeing through
•> ' e fi. en window his mates wolfing the “hag-
*]?■ . It is odd how often this overture is
vfrf 2 ?cd»and how seldom the attack is successful,
of vr ' Va *ther has some good contralto notes. One
an " ozar t 8 duets for violins gave the performers
I, 1 F;° rtu ’JAt y ot carrying on an animated con-
lnriil. ot V fhen a double trio gave some young
whi?, 3 " chance of showing off their bows. Except
Pen making fritters, or eating bread and
jam, a girl never looks to greater advan-
tage than when playing a Addle. But what
most attracted our attention in this piece
was a youth heavily handicapped with short
hair and long ears. His duties appear to have
been divided between squelching mosquitoes
and working in a note now and then on the violin-
cello when nobody was minding. Whether because
of his foot slipping, or of his turning over two
leaves at once, we could not say, but, at any rate,
he got hold of a shake on the G sharp, and by the
time he’d done we were almost A natural. We
might have guessed by the wav he fixed himself
in his eiuir, gave one sad, comprehensive smile all
round, and moistened his hand with saliva, that
there was bloody work before him, and that, having
gone so far, he was determined to see it out. Never
did we experience suoh a shake since the police-
man But why recall the dead past? One by
one the strings gave way until but a wreck of his
instrument remained. Still he toiled manfully on,
and worked out the remainder of the shake on the
bridge. Not till he reached over for the triangles
did we leave our place. We once performed on
this exasperating instrument ourselves, and know
the murderous thoughts the sound or it puts in
our head; and so we left, cheerful but dreadfully
shaken.
** * *
Mr. Zulu Thompson complains that there
was nothing last week in The Bulletin about the
Egyptian War. He appeared before us, in the
street, and said this, arrayed in a costume of white
jean, sapphires, and diamonds. The sun shone
brightly—but where he stood the sun shone doubly
brightly; and, compressed into a focus by his
brilliancy, doubly dazzling was the daylight,
doubly sunny the sunshine. “How's biz.'?” we
asked, approaching him (we need not say, with
trepidation). “AH we ean get in,” he proudly
replied. “ What do you reckon, Mr. Thompson, is
the chief attraction of your show, which is always
attractive?” He paused a moment, and then,
borrowing a tent-fly from Eastway, began to
thoughtfully polish the diamond in his shirt front.
“There are several,” he musingly said. “Now,
look at Gordon’s pictures of the Egyptian War;
can anything be finer than these? Then, you
know, when the soft and pathetic parts come in,
how have I learned to modulate my voice until
the softest pianissimo i 3 a fool to it. And—listen:
I have furnished eight-tenths of the Sydney villas,
and have viven cruets to the residents of two-
thirds of the suburbs. My address, every night,
at 8,” he sobbingly concluded, “is the Academy
of Music.” Then ho wept himself away.
-*-*-<►
We are too good to that theatre—we mean
the Royal. We aro always saying something nice
about it, if not something new, and, it is to be
hoped that we receive the thanks of the pro-
prietary. Well, there is something a little new
this week. Harwood is back again, and, fancy I
■with a white moustache 1 This age is getting too
frank for us altogether. If Henry R. begins to
shame us like this, we shall have to take ourselves
to pieces, and (hen thiro would be nothing left of
us but our courteous manner and civil bearing.
* * *
And, besides the novelty of Harwood
managing, there are some fresh songs and some
new locals. These latter are, as they should be,
replete with gloom. Pantomime jokes should be
ever thus; and the Pit will take them at once. The
very mention of the Dame of Pastor Allen
causes a laugh at once, and that of a gentleman
from the Rocks causes the pit to rock. We
have had a little experience in this sort of work,
and what wo consider is, the less the lines scan
the better, the older and less ingenious the puns
the better; in short, the worse the book is, the
more they seem to like it. The Royal is doing
good biz—almost phenomenal biz.; so there is a
sparkle of joy in every eye.
* * *
We don’t think there’s anything more to
say about Nellie Stewart, or Fanny Liddiard, or
Minnie Hope, this week. No. Nor about Smile-
less George, who is scintillating in Melbourne.
There is, by the way, a rumour current that the
Verdi-Musgrove imbroglio has broken out in a
fresh place, and that new developments—as they
say in the murder cases-may be hourly expected.
We never knew a theatrical company in which
some row like this did not occur, and we never
knew one in which they did not kiss and make it
up. George could kiss Guglielmo by deputy.
There’d be lots of deputies.
• • *
Of course you know that “ The Silver King”
comes after the Pantomime. “The most poetic
of modern melodramas ” So be it. If even it is
as poetic as Mussy’s Pantomime, wo shall welcomo
it with effusion.
** * *
Oh, and think! As Minnie Hope (now
playing the Man in the Moon in the Royal Panto.—
she’s not a bit like a man!) was wending her way
to the mansion in which she daily does religious
justice 1o her “ little eight,” she was accosted, at a
dark turn, by a tall man, who, seizing her by the
wrist, demanded to know what she had in her bag.
“Please, sir, only a powder-puff and a love-letter,”
said she. Disappointed of plunder, the man tore
the bag open and clutched the powder-puff in his
hand. “ Good robber, don’t ! ” sobbed Minnie.
“Leave mo the powder-puff; you may have the
love-letter.” Well, after that, learn that Payne,
the presdig—&c ,is shortly to open here in con-
junction with the V.vians, and Arthur has pro-
mised to sing, during the evening, his song—
“ Run for the doctor, Charlie, dear,
Mother’s taken awfully queer.”
What! mors? Simply that Hart opened at New-
castle on Tuesday last- et puis voila.
** * *
It will make you sad to hear about the
accident that occurred to Ashton’s Circus. This
show is now travelling iu Queensland. The per-
formance was in full swing the other night, when
the tent caught lire. There was awil t rush for
the door at once. In the confusion, a gentleman
left his hat behind. It was a new one, so he dashed
in again to get it. He put it on his head, and
made his way out again. Then he felt something
crawling about among his hair. He took off his
hat, and there, curled up inside and panting with
terror, was the Bengal tiger. Of course, he re-
stored it to the circus. Some other people, how-
ever, were not so honest. A man was caught'
carrying the rhinoceros home under his arm. Me
had it wrapped up in a handkerchief. When they
caught him, he pretended that he had mistaken
the animal for a stray sucking-pig, and that he
was going to advertise its discovery in the paper
the next morning. But. of course, this story was
looked upon with suspicion. So, also, was the
claim of another man to the panther. He said it
was a poodle that he had lost some time before,
and that it had been painted. On examination, it
was found that this statement was incorrect. The
lion of the Libyan desert was treated with
still more indignity. He came to the tent the
next morning in a state of complete exhaus-
tion. It appears the boys had tied a kerosene
tin to his tail, and had been chasing him about the
town all night. When the manager saw all his
menagerie scattered in this fashion, he crossed his
ears over his face and wept. The sight of this
strong, stern man, leaning against the camel and
shedding tears, is said to have been very affecting.
One person was so much overcome that he shook
the cash-box. But it didn’t do him much good.
The treasurer kept the receipts in his mouth. The
fidelity of the camel cost the poor animal his eye-
brows, consequently he has now to wear goggles.
We hear also that, on account of injuries received
by the giraffe duriDg the fire, the tapir will now
act as advance agent. The elephant, too, was
burnt so severely that it is thought he will have
to be conveyed in a perambulator. The rest of
the animals will probably travel in a bread-waggon.
These are some of the vicissitudes which a com-
pany meets with up North. The proprietors have
our sincere sympathy. Fortunately, they are now
doing good business, and can afford to forget
their bad luck on the Queensland border.
#* * *
The merry man that marshalled the Min-
strels is in trouble. He went into a drapery shop
in Carlton, and pointed to th e glorious signature, i
F. E. Hiscocks,” at the foot of a bit of paper,
and raised £8 thereon. The drapery men had been
at the Victoria Hall. They had laughed through-
out the two hours’ entertainment, and if there
was a minute in which they didn’t laugh it was
because they were asleep. Their admiration of
that bit of paper was marvellous. Mr. Leon Vita
had only cleared the threshold when they sent it
over to the Commercial Bank to ascertain whether
the banker held the same opinion of tho caligrapliy
that was gaining ground in their own imagina-
tions. “ Precisely so,” was the reply. It does not
appear why the drapers, who enjoyed themselves
at the hall, so suddenly committed themselves to a
microscopic examination of tne little document.
Perhaps it was the big amount that made them
doubt its genuineness. At all events, they sent the
police after Vita, and the hilarious Italian was
collared in Seymour, and conducted to the lock-
up. We pity the minstrel. If, however, he sings
in the lock-up, we pity the other people there.
#* * *
The heat of the weather, which might
have been expected to diminish the attendance at
the theatres, has not had that effect at the Gaiety.
This may perhaps be attributable to a desire to
see the Devil taking Faust down to comparatively
cool quarters in Hades. Anyhow, the attendance
at “ Faust’’ has been almost Faust-rate. And, while
we are on tropical subjects, wo may mention that
Mr. Gordon made a good Mophistopheles ; we may
say, indeed, a devilish good Mephistouheles. And
Charles the Magnificent went to the Devil melodi-
ously, regretted by all who knew him. And Annis
warbled. And Verdi—and now for some butter—
verdigrease, in fact. Almost an encore for
Loving Smile,” sung with the tremulo which
always disposes to shake Verdi. If we write
sharply, wo havo the excuse that he sang flatly.
This is irony. We would have liked to have made
it fiat-irony. But he was beautiful in death. If
we could be sure of looking as lovely when we
die, we would order our little cherry-case at
once, and tell Jeames to bring round the hearse.
And the rest—hump! But, come now. It is a
source of pleasure to us to learn that “Pauland
Virginia ”is in active rehearsal. M. Victor Masses
opera has been “in active rehearsal,” now, fora
month, and, therefore, we may look forward at no
distant date to something artistic from a musical
point of view.
** * *
Old “home” players will be shocked to
hear that W. H. Chippendale is hopelessly insane.
“ Chip,” as he was affectionately styled, will be
remembered as a member of the old Haymarket
company, in the palmy days of Buckstone's
management, and when that finally broke up he
and buxom Mrs. Chip, (many years younger than
her lord) “ran” a comedy company through
the provinces. Almost Chip.’s last appearance
Dehind the footlights was as Polonius, in the
Lyceum production of “ Hamlet,” nine years back ;
but the veteran was then seventy-four years of
age, and beginning to show symptoms of the
infirmity which has reduced him to nis present sad
condition.
** * *
Theatrical managers in England are being
terribly pestered with circulars from a lunatic
clique, yclept tho “ Moral Reform Union,” beseech-
ing them to elevate the moral tone of pantomime
wheezes, and to insist upon the costume of the
premiere danseuse being modest as well as pictur-
esque. Tho Union apparently is promoted by
some of those “nice” people who manage to dis-
cover nastiness in everything under the sun; who
display a holy acumen in detecting a double-
entendre, and hold short skirts and tights in such
abomination that they can’t keep their eyes off
the shapely limbs of the wearers. Doubtless, the
Moral Reform Union will be extending its field of
operations very soon, and assuming the censorship
of after-dinner speeches, parliamentary debates,
and fireside conversations. A Sydney branch office
is already in contemplation.
THE MORAL REFORM UNION.
Just accept the timely warning,
That an era new is dawning.
When you’ll really need to mind your P’s and
Q’s;
You must sober be and prayerful,
And oh I very, very careful,
If you’ve auy sort of character to lose.
Are you wont to be light hearted ?
There’s a “ Union ” lately started
RTo discover any “ coarseness ” in your fun,
And detect—so says tho rumour—
Double meanings in your humour,
And something most improper in a pun.
Let your conduct be most guarded,
If you wish to be regarded
With the favour of the holy M.R.A. ;
Should you laugh, and talk unduly,
Why, report your conduct truly
To the guardians of your morals, every day.
And, moreover, for the future.
When you find a girl to suit yer,
And no longer have the wish to live alone,
Ere you dwell in sweet communion
With a wife, consult the “ Union”—
P'raps it’s wrong to form a union of your own I


A Great Business.—The United States of
America is the home of some very large enter-
prises hut none perhaps greater than the business
conducted by Mr. G. G. Green, of Woodbury, New
Jersey, U.S.A. He is the proprietor of the well-
known Bosohee’s Gorman Syrup, which is un-
equalled as a remedy for Pulmonary and Bronchial
affections. He manufacturers also Green’s August
Flower for Dyspepsia and all disorders of tho
Liver These preparations are used throughout
the civilized world, and thousands testify to their
valuable curative properties. Both these prepara-
tions have reached an immense sale solely on their
merits. Sample bottles of each are sold nt fid , or
full-sized bottles at Us tid. All druggists keep
them.*
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Chaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1876,
by M. Edouard Favre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
and juror to the Philadelphia Exhibition:—
On the Waltham “ Riverside ” Watch.
. . . “The Waltham Company make the
entire watch—from the iirst screw to the case and
dial. It would even be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work-
They arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
g a v—without having seen it. When the watch is
givon to the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
is what I have seen, gentlemen 1 I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of thu
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, ‘ On the con-
trary, i persist in wearisg it just air, it is. to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, 1 set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day 1 observed that it had varied 33
s conds. And this watch is of the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without case).
At my arrival at Loclg, 1 showed the watch to one
of our first adjusters, who asked permission to
•take it down’—in other words, to take it to
pieces. 1, however, wished fit st to observe it; and
here is the result, which I noted: Hanging, daily
variation, V/z seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the ‘heated room,
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, I handed the watch to the adjuster, who
took it down. After the lapse of a tew days, he
came to me and said, word lor word: ‘lam com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not find one such watch among 50,0000 f our
manufacture.’
“ This watch, gentlemen, 1 repeat to you, I took
at hazard—out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watch
maybe preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
fentlcmen, and I have told you of things such as
have seen them. It remains for us to profit
from this sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at once.”
[A round of HDnlause lollowwd speaker »• h«
descended the tribune.i
A com dent who had lately returned
from Glasgow wrote to the London Echo that he
never saw in any town so many bandy and crooked
legs. On inquiry, he learned that the deformity
arose from the too pure quality ot the water used
in Glasgow. Hum! And how about the strength
of the whusky ?
From the Overland China Mail we cull
the following Chinese note “ There are not
many really noble acts which can be recorded of
Chinese Emperors ; but the Han Emperor is an
exception. When raised to the throne by the
Chinese Warwick, he was invited to select an
Empress, and at once said, * Bring me the old
sword I wore in my humbler days.’ The old
‘Sword’ was a daughter of a eunuch whq had
nourished the youth duiing his obscurity.” The
note would have been more interesting bad it ex-
plained where the eunuch picked up the daughter.
The Cooma Express is mad with us for
having ventured to criticise the action of District
Court Judge Mael'arland iu a recent slander case,
yet makes no effort, to point out where we were
wrong or Macfarland rignt. Ail that it does is to
talk about “ those Sydney journalists who have
picked up the knack of hard swearing on the
back blocks of Queensland, when ladling out;
Queensland rum to the unfortunates who hap-
pened to fall across the.r shanties with a big
cheque”—a subject having about as much refer-
ence to the question of the propriety of the
Judge's conduct as the excruciatingly fcunn)
picture, which executed with a waddy on a shed
of gum-bark, our mad contemporary dedicates to
the councillors of Cooma.
Ask fifty ladies in succession what p
fume they consider the most delicate, the nip Bl
pure and salubrious, the most permanent, and jjl
all respects the most desirable, and forty-nine 0
them will answer Murray Lanman’s Flobi® 1
Water.
Ayer’s Pills possess the positive virtue
of some of the best known medicinal plants, pr*J
pared and combined with scientific skill-rejeptiw
the crude and drastic portions, and retaining odO
the active principle—the part which cures a 0"
does not harm. If you are sick, try them
THE NEWSLETTER.
The Government have taken possession
and control of the Sydney Fire Brigade Station
and appliances. This is another progressive step.
Now for the disbandment of the volunteer bri-
gades, and the enrolment of companies A la the
Naval Brigade.
The Wentworth Advocate (No. 1, voi. i.)
came out on the sth inst., under the plucky motto,
“ Quod dixi dixi." ’Tis to be hoped that the newly-
iledged advocate of liberal ideas, for all that it has
announced quod so emphatically, may be able to
steer clear of the N.S.W. libel laws.
An event to be bracketed with that of the
Khyber Pass was the annihilation of Hick s
Pasha's armv in the Soudan. One man out of ten
thousand ' Yet it would have been strange if
nnvtm™ else had happened. The enemy, under
the False Prophet, was three hundred thousand,
and the experienced O'Donovan (of Merv) said
beforehand :— 4 'The enemy we have to meet are
as courageous and fierce as the Zulus, and much
bitter armed ; and our army is that which ran
away before a handful of British troops at J e}-el-
Kcbir ”In almost his last letter, he said The
Egyptian army, with which I urn here camped on
the Nile will have but one chance, one tremendous
pitchid battle. Once defeated, not a man will
•> And his prediction came true. Mr.
Frank Power/of the Pictorial World, was the
one man. , .
Nearly three thousand British ships, repre-
anntlng 750 000 tons, went to the bottom within the
fnait wo v ears In 1883, four thousand lives were
lost in British ships alone. £4OOO worth of what is
described as “rubbish ” was shipped in one vessel,
and insured for £40,000. It is more than hinted
that a strong connexion exists ; between exorbi-
tant marine insurance and ‘oss of life at aea that
thtw are. in a measure, cause and effect, it is aiso
whispered that many ship-owners who yearly
nttond the Lord Mayor’s banquet or preside over
compHmentary feeds to theVyal Princes (God
bless them 1) should, if they had thoir deserts, be
stretching a rope or working out their regeneia-
tion at Portland. It is by reading between the lines
Mr Chamberlain's speech at the Lord Majoralre
loieiugs that wo obtain an inkling of the reasons
which made the “mariners of England, or rather
ihliiCornOlivers oppose Mr. Plirasoll so venom-
ously lifr. Chamborlain has now declared his de-
termination to put a spoke in the ship-knacker’s
wheel* and, as he is a Minister, with immense in-
lUVence in the Cabinet, drastic legislation may be
booed for. In no port is stringent control more
needed than in tho port of Sydney. There was a
shin in port tho other day which looked a hundred
years oft, and which belonged to a firm associated
with at least one miserable wreck.
Among the open air amusements of the
New Year, the Melbourne people, as might be
expected from thoir great attachment to Piosb>-
terianism and radical politics, possessed the pri\ i-
lego of witnessing the most dashing, exciting, and
perfectly o»iginal performance that went on on
that dov It was a sort of duck race, got up in
anopen-handed way, and executed in the presence
of hosts of picnickers. Mr. Thomas Johnstm
went down to the Prince’s Bridge, and depositing
his clothing on the bank, plunged into the T arra,
. rfd atruck out for the other side. A policeman
«Ud down from tue bridge and got before the
pleasant entertainer. Johnston landed, took afe w
skips through the bushes, followed by the police-
man and plunged into the water again to reach
his “’things.” But the policeman was supple, and
aorimring over the bridge hao the “duds” when
Johnston cama to. Then Johnston took to the
other side, anerthen a hair dozen policemen gave
chase For two hours the al-fresco entertainment,
low along the soft carpet of grass and through
?h» hnS now with light chamois bounds over
To table cloth? of the picnickers, now by the
brink of the yellow river, now, when the pursuit
niose plunging into the stream and diving
6 was splendidly ri l elioreh<s. At last they
Ili a boat and one detachment of the authorities
rowedup ’the river, while two other detachments
the banks, and the playful duck was
o,mght. The picnickers tilt tho rest of the day
Fitzroy autl Sandridge are both suburbs
Of Melbourne, and for many purposes jou might
Is wel Uve m the former as in the latter. Vege-
tables are about the same price. House-rent and
the ministrations of your holy religion aie on the
theministißiiui ' lacea y et , thero are one or
Swo points which make Fitzrey the better place
£ WO o tn reside in You can hammer your
wm? there with a gond deal of impunity. They
lecture yoli'at Sandridge, and bind you over not
UPad it again and a lot of that sort of thing.
Fliz d abeth Ashworth brought up her dear ITenry
the other day, and showed the Fitzroy Bench her
thumped face, hor blackened eyes, and her gene-
Skips ”'slid thelioor wife, thinking of the times
I ft I*d like VOU to bind him over to keep
heleace” “The divvil a bind," said the Bench
te!ttecte“ we discharge him.” Atthe same hour,
Martha Hvrlman brought her dear Joseph before
the Sandridge Bench for having threatened to do
what Henry had done. “We bind him over, him-
Mlf in £3O and one surety of £l<>.” said the Bench.
That's one reason for preferring Fitzroy fto a
place of residence. But tho Itev. Dow e preaches
It FitzrovTand holds “testimony meetings at the
back of Napter-stroet every Sunday. I hat s an-
other reason.
There was once a man called Albertus
Magnus. He was a groat magician. He is only a
cinder in Gehenna now. He went thero because
he used his left hand in crowing himself, and never
a? si? ssrpwS &v«
there be ? Thereare people who believe in Milner
Stephen Well, some of these disciples of Albertus
were lately found in a Swiss graveyard, at mid-
night pulling up tombstones, and burying flve-
frano pieces under them. It seems that Albertus
states, P iu one of his books, that by doing this, and
living in a hut, naked, on bread and water,
and repeating certain magic phrases, the total
sum buried (180 francs) would be increased to
5 000 000 francs. Thero were three of them
engaged in this profitable employment. Two
of them were discovered in a hut by the police.
The other had loft. On examination, it was found
that the buried money had left with him. This is
almost as good reading as the chronicle of a church
fund. Albertus Magnus was an extremely en-
lightened man to have lived in the dark ages. He
had evidently a cemetery of his own, and played,
the same pleasant game as tho Swiss absconder. If
ho had lived in those days, we have no hesitation
in saving that he would have been well-connected.
For all that, however, we think the men who
acted on his recipe had some justification for
their conduct. We know some graves in our own
cemeteries where one might bury money with
|?most dead certainty of its increasing. The men
who are buried there would add to it even in
death.
Woman Hems
Three definitions of beauty. “A fatal
gift that draws us by a single hair.”— Pope.
“ Meautv is nothing more than » silent cheat.
—Theovhrasivx. “True beauty is better than all
the letters of recommendation in the world,
Arixtotle.
A few definitions of “mother-in-law”:—
The fly in the honey-moon; she who produces our
“joy,” and reduces it; the thorn to the rose; a
dam (female parent) person; a visitation ofl ro-
vidence; the wet blanhetof the matrimonial four-
poster; leader of the opposition; the brimstone
of the match; a legal imposition.
We print it out of respect to the sender (a
man of high position and unblemished character),
but we have our opinion. Thirty people, half of
them ladies, started for a four days’trip to the
Hawkesbury, and no looking-glass was brought,!
The bottoms of some billy-cans in the ladies' cabin
were found to have been highly polished before
tho trip was over; but whether this was to supply
a rude substitute, or was merely an example of
industry—well, we can only surmise.
The Duchesse do Chartres can defy com-
petition with the most skilled riders, having
acquired in Kngland the art of horsewomnnsbip.
She is often accompanied in the hunting field by
her two daughters, the Princesss Mario and Mar-
guerite of Orleans, who try to emulate her in
feats of horsewomanship. These young princesses
in the hunting field have two large silver medals
attached to their horses’ necks. The coins are
badges of an ancient order of equestrian merit
existing in France in former times under Royal
patronage.
It reads like a novel. Some few years ago
Mademoiselle Sembrich was teaching music as a
girl in Austria, with such indiiferent succ.-ss as to
barely keep within tho pale of genteel poverty
MISS BELLA GUERIN.
First Lady Graduate at the Melbourne University.
She attracted the notice of Prof. William Stenzel,
who, after giving her some lessons, sent her at his
own expense to the best academies of Europe, to
study singing' under Lamperte and piano under
Liszt. Sembrich has made a great name, been the
pet of London, and is now a dangerous rival in
New York to Patti and Nillson. And in tho height
of her fame comes the announcement that Prof.
Stenzel is to lead to the altar the great singer,
whom he befriended as a girl in Austria when a
struggling music teacher.
This paragraph is intended particularly
for ladies with husbands who spend their money
in playing Nap. and chicken-hazard. There is a
lady in Young who wants te start a movement
among her sex to put down gambling. H ut she is
doubtful about how to begin. To her and to
others similarly situated, we beg to offer our sin-
cere sympathy and a suggestion. This is tho
suggestion: Your husband spends his money on
cards. You wish to stop him. There is nothing
easier. Empty his pockets every night, and refuse
to return him the money. After you have done
this once or twice, he will probably kill you and
be hanged afterwards. You won’t be worried any
more with his gambling. This plan has never been
known to fail.
General De Ainslie, in h ? s just published
“Life, as I have found it.” tells the following
story of an elopement“ This marriage between
the Earl of Westmoreland and Miss Child, in 1782,
had been a runaway <- ne: and I remember a story
of my grand-uncle, * Charles,’ Lord Grey, who was
a friend of the earl's, having in some degree
assisted the flying pair, inasmuch that, being at
the time a captain in the King’s Dragoon Guards,
and quartered somewhere on their line of flight,
he happened to be exercising his troops in march-
ing order when their carriage came thundering
along the road; and Lord Westmoreland, putting
his head out of window, begged my uncle to
throw all the impediment in his power in tho way
of Mr. Child, who was close behind, which Lord
Grey contrived to do by arranging his dragoons in
such a manner that it required some time to pass
them.”
Here is a sketch: The nearest approach to
a girl in trousers now walks London streets. She
ventures as near trousers as she dares, wears cut-
away coat. uprigl;t collar and a cane. She
buys all the checks and tweeds to be had,
anjthing with a suspicion of red trailing
through it, and wGars her hands in her
pockets. Her skirts are scrupulously devoid
of panel draperies. She is as straight up and down
as Nelson's column, and walks with long strides
and a well-defined intention to get somewhere.
She runs to solid white shirt fronts and studs,
ami has a horsey necktie. She dotes on a little
ticket pocket in her sweet coat, and carries a
daggling eyeglass. She wears a man's small hat,
and grasps when without a cane, a neatly reefed
umbrella. The men in her set who expect to see
her in top boots are surprised to find her the most
shrinking', lady-like girl at the ball. Ina charming
white toilet, singularly devoid of rattling, clatter-
ing things, she goes her way, dances without
abandon, and converses on the current topics of
the day.
Twopeny is a rare old boy. When he
was staging around about his marvellous exhibi-
tion, no one suspected he was looking under colo-
nial sofas and spotting the size of the feet of our
girls. But that’s what he was mainly up to, or
down to. In the droll hash he calls a book, he
throws our girls about scandalously. The com-
monest type of girl in Australia, he says, has
largo f°et.” Now, we bad never noticed that
fault much. We only remember a few cases in
which the size of feet became a matter for reflec-
tion. One case was when we saw the door of a
’bus wide open. She wasinside by herself, but the
lioorspace was rather scant. Another time we had
observed, after a shower of rain, that about 15
yards of the liags in George-streetwere quite dry,
and had begun to talk of the patchy way the rain
had fallen; but we were told that she had been
standing there during the shower. Twopeny,
however, goes on to say that ‘ her faults "pring
not from her heart but fr*m her head. That 8
nonsense, 'they spring from neither. If irom
anywhere, it’s from her ankles they spring.
Betsy Wardle’s excuse, when charged at
the Liverpool (Eng.) assizes with having biga-
mously married George Chisnal, was that her hjw-
ful husband had sold her for a quart of beer. The
“sale ” was proved by Margaret Brown and Alice
Roseby. To th» last witness Mr. Justice Denman
remarked lam not sure that you are not guilty
of bigamy, or of being an accessory before the
fact You must not do this sort of thing again.
People have no right to sell their wives for a quart
of beer or anything else. George Cbisnal, the
second husband, just out of his teens, was the
next witness. His Lordship: How did you come
to marry this woman ? Witness: Hoo did a what ?
Question repeated—Witness : A bowt her. His
Lordship: You are not fool enough to suppose you
can buy another man’s wife ? Oi 1 His Lordship :
How much did you give for her ? Sixpence. His
Lordship: You are as guilty as she is. You are an
accessory before the fact to her committing
bigamy. You have committed bigamy yourself.
Everybody has committed bigamy in this case.
Go down. The witness left the box with alacrity,
but. was immediately recalled by his lordshio, who
asked him how long he had lived with the prisoner.
Witness: Going on for threo years. His Lordship:
Do you want to take her back again ? Awl keep
her if von loike. His Lordship; You need not
keep her if youdonotwant. Sheis w a rdle's wile.
The Judge ordered Betsy to go up for a week. Had
it been Sir Alfred Stephen, now or had it oc-
curred in barbarous Ireland .
Ladies, read this. It’s all about kissing :
May never lady press his lips,
His proffered love returning',
Who makes a furnace of his mouth.
And keeps his chimney burning.
May each true woman shun his sight,
For fear his fumes would choke her,
And none but those who smoke themselves
Have kisses for a smoker.
If kissing were not lawful, the lawyers would not
use it,
And if it were not pious, the clergy would not
choose it; ~ , ~
And if it were not a dainty thing the ladies would
not crave it,
And if it were not plentiful, the poor girls could
not have it,
When we dwell on the lips of the lass we adore,
Not a pleasure in nature is missing;
May his soul be in Heaven I he deserves it I’m sure,
Who was the inventor of kissing.
Master Adam I verily think was the man,
Whose discovery will ne’er be surpassed;
And since the sweet game with creation began,
To the end of the world may it last.
OSCULATION.
Willie, what is osculation ?
Osculation, Bella, dear,
Is a learn’d expression, queer,
For a nice sensation:
I put my arm thus, round your waist,
Your head sinks on its resting place;
This is “approximation”;
You need not fear—
There’s no one near;
I then—
Oh,dear!
Bella, that's osculation.
For some time past, since photography
has reached its present splendid perfection, one.of
the freaks of wild, well-born American beauties
h®.s been to go in little secret parties and get
photographed—in considerably less raiment than
is generally deemed necessary by society. Each
beauty would choose that particular line of dis-
play best suiting her own physique. The whole
thing was kept most sacredly secret; indeed, what
the girls could do with the pictures is a puzzle, as
it is obvious they could not have any extensive
circulation. About three months ago, this pecu-
liar development of vanity caused a good deal of
trouble, and lost an Ohio Venus a virtuous hus-
band. The lady was a belie of good family, who
used to watch the changes and charms of her com-
plexion and contour closer than a miser does his
treasure, and some time previously she had been
beautifully photographed in the style indicated
and appeared in the picture with that portion of
her figure “ which the poets rave about'’ entirely
uuapparelled. Subsequently she had some photos.
taken in ordinary dress, for album purposes—les3
attractive, but more adapted for general circu-
lation. It was known she was engaged; and one
day she asked her fiance to call at the
er's, and get a dozen cartes she bad ordered Irond
an old negative. He naturally took the liberty of
looking at the packet before leaving the studio.
As he opened it, the cards dropped like hot coaid
from his hand. He looked at the confused photo-
grapher, again at the cards on the floor, and then,
turning a fiery red, gathered them up. and hastily
left the place. By some mistake, the photographer
had given him the wrong pictures; that is, those
taken not for publication—though they certainly
might have been offered as satisfactory evidence
of good faith to an intending husband, if it were
usual to look for any such guarantees. The lady
got her photos, but by mail; and the young man
intimated that he had no intention of calling on
her again. But he couldn’t have been an ordinary
young man.
A decidedly peculiar phase of conjugal
relationship is shown by the suit of Mrs. Ueorgina
Weldon against her husband, just tried before Sir
James Hannen. H seems that Mr. Weldon, bein>r
no doubt a quiet-loving man, objects to live witn
Georgina; and on her bringing a suit for “ restitu-
tion of conjugal rights,” offered to provide her
with a fine house in any neighbourhood she liked,
and £5OO a year. This plain offer, and it just shows
how you can’t please some women, she stoutly
refused to be satisfied with. She wanted more
conjugal rights. Mrs. Weldon (who is the lady that,
some years ago, Gounod, the composer, was so
infatuated with as a singer) appeared in person to
argue her rights, and quite upheld the credit of
her sex for eloquence. This is how her suit
trundled along part of the time:—Sir James Han-
neu: “I take it Mr. Weldon considers himself not
bound to live in the same house ?” Counsel: “ That
is so, my lord.” Mrs. Weldon, very sharply: “I do
not wish the house taken for me as its mistress.’'
Sir James: “I do not think you can assist me,
madam. It is a legal question. There is a house you
can go to, with two servants, while you will still
have your allowance: so you are not in a position
of hardship.” Mrs. Weldon: “I should be insane
to accept such an offer. There is moral hardship.
What is the use of the marriage service if your
husband does not live with you ? ” (Laughter.)
Sir James Hannen: “I shall consider my judg-
ment.” Mrs, Weldon, sarcastic: “More ‘reason-
able time,’ my lord. (Laughter.) This sort of
thing has becu going on for 3)4 years. I shall not
go into the house to live.” Sir James Hannen:
That is vour affair, not mine.” Mrs. Weldon
favoured his lordship with her opinion that a hus-
band ought to live with his wife, and not “be
encouraged to live away.” Sir James thought the
house, servants, and allowance ought to be enough
to satisfy her. Mrs. Weldon made the pithy re-
mark: “ I say it is notl ” It i« difficult to guess
what Georgina really wants more. As there is
evidently a coolness between her and her hubby,
and they are probably “not speaking,” we’re
afraid, even if he did live in the house, she would
still be dissatisfied. Though there is always the
conjugal right of the fl it-iron and rolling-pin.
• • *
Now that strenuous efforts are being
made to wipe out of the marriage service the
absurd word “ obey,” it will not be considered out
of place to quote old Sir John Bowring, who once
observed, “With this ring I thee wed, is sorcery;
with my body I thee worship, is idolatry ; and
with my worldly goods I thee endow, is a flat
falsehood.”


BRIEF MENTION.
Last week was a week of universal prayer
—for cool weather.
Another South Sea Island outrage. A
missionary allowed to return to Sydney.
A Paddington alderman says he likes
see loyal holidays, such as Christmas, loyally kept.
They were loyally kept at Waterloo!
Should the publicans of the metropolis
enrol themselves into a Volunteer corps, we beg
to suggest that they be called the FuseV-ecra.
We’ll lose all respect for R. S. Smythe if
ho doesn’t secure the Claimant for an Australian
tour. Sir Roger and John Lucas might travel as
twins. .
A justice of the peace in Victoria has been
accused of forgery. Anyone who has over watched
a J.P. trying to write his name must see the absur-
dity of the charge.
Melbourne has reverted to gas in the
streets. The electric light was slowly reducing
the Council to pauperism, besides prejudicially
affecting the burglary business.
Cable : “ The Triple Alliance will not per-
mit the overthrow of King Alfonso of Spain.
The Government having taken the Insurance Fire Brigade in hand, might turn its attention to the Volunteer Brigades also.
This is funny. All Europe couldn’t prevent the
formation of the French Kepublic.
The Presbyterian remarks: “Weprofit
not by what we swallow, but by what is aesimi-
lated.” No words could more tersely put the
reason why people fail to appreciate the Presby-
terian.
Some of the English papers, writing from
Archie Forbes’ observations on Australia, con-
clude that we will cut the painter in time of war
that, in fact, we are not a biave people. They
can’t have known that we went to hear Forbes a
second time. We were brave enough for that.
The Parramatta Independent tells the
story how a visitor to the local juvenile Indus-trial
exhibition asked permission to play on the grand
piano and sing; how his request was granted; how
he skilfully and takingly rattled off some choice
operatic selections; and how he turned out to be a
—madman (a visitor from Tarbau Creek). One
often gets taken in by musicians in this way.
This is what a church elder from
the land of Dubbo says:—“l lack words to
express my indignation at such an immoral en-
couragement of public gambling having been
sanctioned by my clergy, and shielded by the
sacred garb of my religion.” It is probably
that, that pious elder had ten tickets in a horse
and buggy church lottery, and the whole ten were
blanks.
The Langtry has abandoned her intention
of visiting Australia. We’re very much afraid
this will lead up to a very serious depression in
the “ gents’ ” (by the way, what accursed word is
“gents”) masher shirt and hosiery biz-, since
many a young fellow who was agonising in a six-
inch collar doesn’t think the habit good enough
now that the Lily has declined to como and be
killed by Young Australia.
M‘Gowan, the Acting Deputy-Assistant-
Temporary-Postmaster-General of victoria, says
that the applicant for the billet of * Inspector ot
Posts and Telegraphs ” who is to supersede Pitman
must be a qualified electrician. The AO® cannot
reconcile this with the fact that Pitman knew
nothing whatever of telegraphy. It appears that
“ posts” were more in his line —especially lamp-
posts, when the public-houses were closed.
“ David Gordon,” writing to the Nooze
about the recent cordial interview between the
Pope and the Crown Prince of Germany, informs
Alfred that it was very different when Pope Gre-
gory VII. made Henry IV. of Germany disrobe
outside the city, enter in sackcloth, and grovel
three days in an outhouse before receiving abso-
lution, and kissing the Pope’s big toe. We don t
blame His Holiness at all. Somebody had to kiss
bis toe. What we do not like is that the whole
German people should have still to kiss the heel
of military despotism.
There is to be a Kalizoic Society in Mel-
bourne. It is for the worship of the beautiful.
Some premises on the Saltwater River, near Foots-
cray, lately used as a feilmongering establishment,
have been rented for the head offices. There are
to be branch establishments at the West Melbourne
Swamp, Little liourke-street, and Collingwood
Flat. There is a prospect of affiliation with our
own Kalizoic Club in Kent-street, so that the
“beautiful” will at last have a show which has
been hitherto denied it.
Lhere is quite a “ kid-clergyman ” at St.
Blank’s, and he reads the prayers beautifully:
with what they call "devotional emphasis, when
he has not a cold. Last Sunday he had one, and his
“ Dearly beloved brethren, the Scripture moveth
us in sundry places,” sounded as though the words
were enunciated through a fairy fog-horn. It is
generally conceded —especially amoDgst the choir
—that the young reverend is winning. He takes,
by the way, a great interest in the choir. Perhaps
that is how he caught his cold! Adew.
M. Jules J aoquemard is dead. He was a great
collector of ancient and modern boots and shoes.
His collection has been presented to the Musee
Ciuny in Paris. He died of grief because he
couldn’t get a boot of the preglacial period. He
had never seen a Rum reporter. And now we
suppose that the day after this appears, a Rum
reporter will be coming round, offering to show
us his hoot, and even to let us feel it—behind, we
don’t care. The doors of our new palace are only
four feet six inches wide. He won’t be able to get
at us, unless he takes his feet off, on the steps.)
The D.T. thinks that a lucrative trade in
frozen meat might be driven between Australia
and the neighbouring Dutch possessions. This has
been our impression all along. Rut there arc two
trifling difficulties that should be dealt with at
once, in order to give the trade a sound start. The
natives of Java and Sumatra don’t eat meat, and
they have no money. These objections may ap-
pear unimportant, but we thought it as well to
state them in order that they may be removed
without delay. By cutting off the rice supply, and
judiciously applying forced-meat balls, the —L” hat
are you giving us?—tin. B.]
Ella Wheeler, who, we presume, is a
daughter of old Wheeler, has just gone into the
poetry biz., and, in her “Poems of Passion,’ rips
out thuswiso
“ She touches my cheek, and I quiver,
I tremble with exquisite pains ;
She sighs—like an over-charged river,
My blood rushes on through my veins.
She smiles—and in mad tiger fashion,
As the tiger fondles her own,
I clasp her with fierceness and passion,
And kiss her with shudder and groan.”
“ She” had probably been chewing onions.
Excursionists to Melbourne from Geelong
and Ballarat are very indignant with the Kail way
Department for the treatment they received
during the recent holidays. The Geelong pieople
were made travel in cattle-trucks, and they com-
plain bitterly of the Minister’s insult; and the
Ballarat people were made travel in pig-trucks,
and they also objurgate the Minister. For peace
sake we should therefore recommend the Minis-
ter to work out, in the course ot the yeai\ a plan
whereby these arrangements may be altered. If
no better scheme can be devised, we would suggest
that, next time, the cattle-trucks be sent to
Ballarat, and the pig-trucks to Geelong. That
would be, at all events, a change, an 4 would prove
that there was some vitality at the head of affairs.
A country paper revives the following
story about mosquitoes:—“ They are very bad on
the Booligal plains. Two men got into a 400-gal-
lon tank to escape them. The ’squitoes set to
work and bored through. The astonished inmates
thinking to beat their torn enters, rivetted the
borers inside. Then the large insects fluttered
their wings, and, raising tank, men, and all, flew
away, and nothing more was ever seen of them! ”
Of course, we know this kind of mosquitoes well.
They have eyes like tram-lights, and breathe
smoke and fire. Two of them came into our office
with a reporter one day. At least he said they did.
Anyhow, we had to tell him we bad caught them
and chained them in the cellar, before he would
I stir out again. But tho writer of that story about
the tank will meet those mosquitoes again, right
enough. And they will wear horns next time ho
sees them.
We observe, with some confusion, that
three gentlemen have been remanded, or com-
mitted, or something, for ill using a Chinaman. It
seems that live of these free and independent citi-
zens (two of whom were not, at the first enquiry,
arrested) kicked and “bashed” (their own ver-
nacular) tho Celestial, and were, doubtless, very
much surprised at being apprehended, ltead this
little bit of the delicate report:—“The witness
identified Wong Ken as the Chinaman whom ho
saw being ill-treated. Five men were kicking the
Chinaman, and dragging him by the hair of his
head. Did not s< o the commencement of tho
assault. The prisoner Wagner kicked the China-
man three or lour limes in the ribs. Mngner said,
• Kick the &c. Now. we want to know what
this moans! It appean you can’t, in the age in
which we live, even kill a Chinaman you don't
like, and owe for him. Thus these throe lino young
fellows are temporarily incarcerated in durance
vile, and tho corners of the city streets are at
present deprived of the adornment of their pre-
sence. We have killed so many Chinamen in our
ti me, and violently assault-ed so many others unti
they secretly buried them, that these young gentle-
men have, in their affliction, our sincere sympathy.
We have, indeed, kiiled so many people in our day,
with ven-e and other weapons, at a time, too. when
a, missionary wasn't missed, or the loss ot either a
Kanaka or a Celestial discovered, that we are
beginning to think the Caucasian, so tar as we are
concerned, is getting played out. Messrs. James
O’Brien, James Magner. and George Muihoiland
are now deprived of their civil rights, and, what
affects them, perhaps, to a greater extent, their
tobacco, the skin of thtir backs. They
have, it seems, offended against the law ; but
t ley knew no better. In this sonny country
we have been educated to killing China-
men; and lots of people—including ourselves—
have always thought slaying a Celestial a pecu-
liarly Christian thing to do. It appears uow we
were all mistaken. Things have com« to a
pretty pass, indeed, when but there, we
are confident, in this instance, that civili-
zation will assert itself, and that an edu-
cated and enlightened community will, at
no distant date, once more he allowed to “ bash ”
and kick and stone an inoffensive Chinaman until
he is on the verge of the grave, is this a free
country—we ferociously ask—or is it not ? If it be
one, let us have our rights. If, stay—but no trea-
son. Let, however, an arbitrary Government
beware 1 There’s a cracker at home in our collar-
boy, Yes!


/
$
i
ALLT&C
7/Z4.
V/-
Z-
• ~l'
Mpi.iT, ■r.-n>r^i-
-3=2
f;
ULT
stab
&
II
II
3S
'S
«
=ah
Messrs. ALLT & CO.’S New Wilts as Ssirit Stores and Sellers,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
-Asrents for—
Messrs. TRUMAN, H ANBURY, BUXTON & CO
Brewers, Purton-on-Trent •
„ JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS,
Dundee;
Messrs. A. O. MBUKOW & CO.,
Cocrnac :
E. & J. BURKES
“idght Spartan* Tren" A.e ;
Messrs. MUNZER & SPANN,
Bordeaux, ( iarets ;
impagrne, S/Ay, France
proprietors, Charente.
Tho Due da Mootebellc
The Chare**,* V raeyu
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood ChamoJi
♦V orm wood-street, E.C.
Fire-arms are not to be sent to Polynesia.
The natives have taken to dodging behind trees.
Hut wo have the old weapons yet—rum and the
Bible.
The Echo says the British Government
are “striving to do justice to the Irish tenants.”
So the day is dawning in the Hunter-street
sepulchre.
A movement is being started in Sydney
for the purpose of increasing the consumption of
colonial in place of imported wines. This wili be
a sad blow to the undertakers.
A wealthy retired squatter of Burwood
reduced his milk score by half a pint a day, on
finding the deputation failed to remove the ob-
noxious halfpenny from his monthly ticket.
Baron Tennyson received ten pounds a
line for tho lyric ho wrote for the “ Youth’s Com-
panion ” lately. A poet in this country would
get, for a similar lyric, just about enough to land
him in the lock-up.
Another postal thief arrested. If this goes
along, the ranks of the well-connected will be
exhausted. Won't the Postmaster-General, fol-
lowing the course of his predecessor, go to the
police court to save the delinquent ?
The Tasmanians nave sent for a European
expert to promote oyster culture in their waters.
They might have given some of our University
dons a chance. The curriculum in vogue for
students here should be equally, if not more, suc-
cessful with oysters.
The burial fees at the new cemetery at
Sandgate (Q.) are said to be very high. Inconse-
quence of this, we hear that the inhabitants have
unanimously resolved to boycott the gravedigger
by refusing to die until the fees are lowered. This
is what we call proper public spirit.
So, after all our fluttering expectation,
after all the money we have spent in new teeth
and hair-restorer, Mis. Langtry is not coming out
to Australia I This is a crusher lor us; but what
sort of a crusher is it for the Premier ? And to
think what a pair they would have made I
When a telegram reached the News offlcc,
asserting that, amongst Booth’s first converts to
teetotahsm in Adelaide, was a well-known re-
porter, the telegram was at once treated as muti-
lated, and the staff resolved unanimously to stand
together without flinching, even if fifty Booths
came.
There was a man up at Townsville who
used dynamite as a disinfectant the other day. It
disinfected his boay of his soul. The latter is sup-
posed, with weak partiality, by his friends, to be
at present practising on >i celestial cornet. At any
rate, heaven must be very high up if he didn’t
reach there.
A councillor in one of the Melbourne
suburbs was lined a shilling the other day for
using disorderly language at a Corporation meet-
ing. At this rate it would not cost muen to kill a
Mayor. A councillor in easy circumstances could
afford to kill and pay for a Mayor every month,
while a capitalist with a ta9t.e that way, might
wipe out the whole Municipal Council and not feel
the linos. If wo had only a capitalist with such a
taste in our Town Council 1 But, alas, there is no
such luck.
Melbourne police inspectors are too busily
engaged in effecting “splendid captures” to be
able to devote their official minds to such trifles as
popular literature. During the hearing of the
unsavoury Nathan case, it came out in evidence
that one of Mr. N.’s soiled doves was familiarly
known as “Sarah Gamp.” This elicited from an
artful sub-inspector the information that “he
didn’t believe her name was Gamp at all.” And
when tho irreverent audience tittered, the digni-
iied functionary glared around the court, and
wondered, no doubt, what the Dickens they were
laughing at.
It is pleasant, indeed, to learn that the
reign of obscenity is nearly ended, and that swear-
ing will soon be among the forgotten arts—in
Melbourne, at any rate; we have not advanced
quite so far over here. An old lady was charged
at the South Melbourne Court with making use of
words foreign to our dictionaries; and the Bench,
while inflicting a penalty of forty shillings on the
elderly sinner, expressed a determination to
“stamp out offences of this kind.” When the
Bench have succeeded in.their laudable intention,
we sincerely trust they will devote themselves to
carrying out the project of a certain London
alderman, and “ put down suicide.”
Major Sargood, tho Victorian Mars, is
greatly idolised. It was thought he was going to
die the .other day, and the hearts of the new
militia bounded against their waistcoats t’ll the
stitches sprang. It would have been a pity if
Major Sargood had died, for he is a fine-looking
man, and has a clear conception of what a colonial
“ sojer ” should be. The Major holds that the
colonial soidier should bo “ a gentleman.” This is
a grand view of the subject. He also thinks that
in our time there will be no need to use powder,
unless in the harmless way of practice. This gives
splendid support to the grand view. If the Major
had died, we should have lost our grip of these
two great truths. What harm if we had ? Well,
then we should have had no militia. Men were
not going to list with a ch-nceof getting killed.
What harm if we had no militia 't Well, then fine-
looking men would not have been able to posture
in picturesque military uniforms, and our nurse-
girls would not be so anxious to take our children
out for an airing in the afternoon. Lots of evils
would have happened, and we therefore join the
crowd and thank the Major for not dying.
Tho llev. J. S. White, M.A., LL.D., of
Singleton, considers that no race has a right to
annex territory and war with savages unless it is a
fruitful and multiplying race. It was on the con-
dition of fruitfulness and multiplication that the
original fee-simple was given by the Creator to
man, and, when tho latter fails in his portion of
tho contract, his title becomes invalid an 1 his
claim liable to be jumped. Starting from these
premises, tho Rev. White argues that France,
hiving lost her fruitfulness, is “guilty of tres-
pass, incurs guilt, aud ensures punishment ” by
trying to dispossess savage tribes. But the Anglo-
Saxon, having mastered the “ multiplication ”
table, and determined to go through with it, has
the best title to occupy the earth in accordance
with the otiginal grant. But if “fruitfulness” is
tho sole essential, surely a good word might be
put in for the Chinese, Hindoos, and others we
kaowof? Put it on the “fruitfulness ” ground,
in fact, and the South Sea Islanders would have
Divine warrant for annexing any civilised coun-
try. They are so fruitful that, tor ceLturies be-
fore missionaries st ipped their procreative games,
their islands were too small for them, and they
had to eat one another.
The extraordinary shooting feats of Colo-
nel Ike Austin pale into insignificance beside tl e
recent exploit of a Ballarat marksman. This
gentleman was practising at one of the targets < f
i,tie Rifle Club, from the 500 yards range, when, I y
some means, the bullet contrived not only to nuts
ho target, but to dodge the hill behind it, whic h
is some eightj feet high. After pursuing its mau
career for a full half mile, the refractory morsel
of load arrived at the local police station. Itdidn’t
kill a “bobby,” though, unfortunately; but con-
tented itself with striking the kitchen wall, and
crashing it to the ground. This last item, by the
way, suggests the feasibility of an able-bodied
prisoner being capable of utterly destroying that
police station by blowing on it. However, r< tv-
nimB a nos moutons (as the Chinese say), this affair
has, we understand, caused a feeling ot grave dis-
quiet among those living in proximity to the
butts; and we can accept that statement with a
simple, childlike faith. We wouldn’t like to reside
within rifle range of Ballarat until that eccentric
snootist is dead and buried; but we are despatch-
ing our mother-in-law on a trip to that locality,
uud have just ordered a suit of shiny black in ami-
cipation of her premature decease.
No good health with thin impure blood.
Hop Bitters makes rich blood, good health und
strength. Look up and read.
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wims, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
Land Kale at .llaii’y Beach.
As regards suburban property, there is no head-
line likely to prove more attractive than the one
which caps this article. Any stranger who knows
Manly Beach, and knows what are even the near
requirements of our great metropolis, could
hardly understand a big land sale at Manly at this
time of day. Probably, in any other community
iu the world, every available inch of land at such
a matchless-looking place as Manly would have
been snapped up years ago, being now unobtain-
able except at fabulous figures. The ordinary
city visitor to this delightful spot wonders at the
numerous unoccupied building sites there ; and
the prediction ot niuety-nine out of a hundred is,
that there will shortly be a run on building opera-
tions, which will completely shut out hesitating
investors. An announcement that has taken a
goof many by surprise is that of the sale, on
Thursday, January 81st, of nearly 800 villa sites
oa Dareen Estate, tee Heights of Manly; there
was no previous announcement of this important
sale, and Mr. Pritchard, the auctioneer, begins
the year with a very important undertaking. The
proprietors, in selling the land, do not damage
surroundihg properties by a niggardly sub-divi-
si m, as there are no blocks less than 50ft. wide,
and there is neither a street nor road of less widt h
man a full chain. Tho title is a grant from tho
Crown, and the property enjoys a never-failing
supply of fresh water; while for garden purposes
the soil cannot bo surpassed. The proprietors
mean to sell almost without reserve; as they fix
tne upset price at tho nominal sum of Jb'B for
each block, and will accept All per block deposit,
the balance to be paid by easy instalments, bearing
interest at the rate of 0 per cent, per annum. A
man ihus may buy to build upon, or hold for an
advance which is certain. This is a sale at which
country residents and investorsshould he present,
or b'.' represented In some way. It isa rare chance
for good investment in suburban property; while
for men of means it gives an opportunity for tho
erection of a seaside residei.ee m one of tho most
delightful spots on the Australian continent.
Wo know tho whole of thorn—Jem Mace,
Harry Seilers, Christie, Jaok Thompson, Miller,
Larry Foley, and a lot more. They are plucky in
their way, but we still stick to our opinion that
tho pluckiest man in Australia at tho present
moment—always barring Hugh MVoll, the mem-
ber for Mandurang (Vic.)—ls Mr. John l(ae, of
lronbark, Sandhurst. He not only writes poetry,
but prints it, and puts his name to it. Now, we
write poetry ourselves. It is no disgrace to a man
when his great deep is bubbling over with indig-
nation at the the neglect of a cold world, or the
inability to obtain credit for a pot of porter, to
lly to song for solace—to seize on rhythm as a vent
for feelings that must have way. As we said,
we do it ourselves, but then we run our complain-
ings Into some far-off country journul—«nd sign
them with the names ot our bitterest enemies. It
is otherwise with Mr. Itae. He signs his burning
thoughts, and prints them in the Advertiser and
tho Independent, two respectable lieudigo jour-
nals. No popular demonstration has yet been
made against either paper, and it is said that Mr.
Rae himself often walks down the Mall unattended,
except by a blood-hound. His latest eoi- undrem
la published in the Independent, and outiued
“ Beat the charging drum.”
It Is in the form of an allegory, and is worked out
with considerable skill, and a nice attention to
details. There has been a tight, and
“ A captain who the van had led
Without a sign of fear,
Was deeply wounded on the head,
And carried to the rear.”
We would suggest, with diffidence, that if Mr. Rao
had described the missilo that was the proximate
cause of the Captain's removal, he would have
supplied authentic information on what must now
remain a matter of mere surmise. We have seen
some ugly wounds i esulting from a clothes-prop,
and even a brick in the hands of a determined man
has cleared the gangway before now. To us, i hen,
it would seem that, without altering suu e or
metre, the above might have been given: -
“ A captain who had led the van,
While stooping down to pick
His way across a fallen man,
Was fettled with a brick.”
This, it appears to us, satisfies the natural curio-
sity of readers to know why t*'e Captain deter-
mined to remain where he was, and ad vised, liis
followers to “ foot it.” Well, he was brought to
the rear, and the surgeon, seeing that his head
looked as if “Jumbo” had sat on it in mistake,
knew there was something wrong. The officer
died, and wo are asked whether we are prepared to
meet death with the same resignation and hope
as he.—
“ I fight a baitle every day,
And bullets Hy around :
If one perchance should come my way,
And lay me on the ground.”
We are cramped for space this week, and so can
give no more extracts. We may return to the
subject again; but we have said enough, we fust,
to show that a poet of no mean order is amongst
us, and it will beourown fault if he is not propeny
appreciated.
The Qlteanbeyan Gale publishes thirty
reasons tor the abolishment ot alcoholic drinks,
giving as the “98th ” of these reasons that “ it is
contrary to the Bible.” Now, as a matter of fact,
though the Bible in many places protests against
intemperance, it advocates the use of alcoholic
drinks. The “drink ye ail of this,” was a distinct
command to take a glass of alcoholic liquor, all
the ravings of the teetotallers anent unfermented
wine notwithstanding.
The Melbourne D.T. was more like a comic
paper than usual in its report of a picnic given to
the inmates of the Kew Asylum. After making a
s ivere reflection on the hrain power of the busi-
ness men of the colony by observing that “it Is
pleasant to note that, at this particular season of
the year, when so many enjoy relaxation from the
toT* of business life, those bereft of reason have
not been forgotten.” it goes on to tell us of tho
pastimes indulged in by our unfortunate fellow
countrymen on this interesting occasion. “Some
of them jumped and romped like schoolboys, whilst
others (including the D.T. reporter; became inter-
ested spectators ot' what wa« going on. Races were
conducted in the most serious manner, and the
activity displayed by some of the competitors was
wonderful.” That a lunatic should be active is,
indeed, remarkable—almost as remarkable as the
intelligence that “the competition for the prizes
offered, consisting of pipes and cakes of tobacco ,
was keen, and certainly more honest than foot-
races usually are.” Without commenting on the
grammatical construction of that last sentence,
we will merely express our astonishment at any
lunalic “ running straight” for a cake of tobacco,
lint when “ our reporter ” goes so far as to say
that “an abundant supply of eatables was done
full justice to,” we feel bound to state our decided
opinion that ho is drawing on his imagination. It
is impossible to do “full justice" to a charity pic-
nic sandwich: it defies the best endeavours.
The Australian Vinegar Works.
v e have, in the case of the Australian Vinegar
Works, another instance of the steady develop-
ment of the industries established in this country,
indicating oncemore thatitisnotartlfleialsupport
that is needed to this end, but enterprise and good
judgment. It is only a few years ago, compara-
tively speaking, that the Australian Vinegar Works
were started, and the proprietor had every kind of
difficulty almost to contend against in the way of
unskilled lahour and the deep seated prejudice in
favour of the imported article. Mr. D. J. Monk,
the founder of the business, was, however,
resolutely resolved to succeed, and he has suc-
ceeded hoi ond expectations. Five years ago the
rudest appliances and the smallest premises were
ample fo ■a 1 demands. Now the premises are
found enlarged to the extent of a first-class brew-
ers. with appliances of no less value and capa-
bility, an ! the output meets nearly two thirds of
the whole requirements of the trade of N.S W.
Tho Aus ra ian Vinegar Works are situated in
Sussex-street, with spacious inway from that
thoroughfare, and ample roadway into Bathurst-
street via Barker Lane. The old edifice, which
served ior years for tho purpose of a manufactory,
has been pulled down and in its stead is found
a remarkably rtaunch squaro two-storey brick
building, specially designed for the requirements
of the business. This structure is nearly 90 feet
square, with foundations and substructure of
sufficient strength to allow of two additional
storeys when required. It is divided into several
departments for boiling, clarifying, bottling, cask-
ing, despatching, &c., with divisions for the steam
and mechanical arrangements. There is hardly a
brewery in the colony with so many or so capa-
cious vats as are here found in constant use.
The process of manufacture is of the simplest
scientific character, securing the best vinegar
t hat can possibly bo made. On an upper fioor
The tattered colours of the Gordon High-
landers were In November last, deposited In Bt.
Giles’s Cuthedr't. aiimburgh, the Duke of Cam-
bridge “doing ” the presentation to the Almighty.
H.tt. Highness, to enhance the value of the gift,
pointed out to the recipient (who was represented
hy the incumbent of St. Giles’s) that the war-worn
flags had been originally banded to tee High-
-1 aiders by Her Maj-sty! He also was pleased to
remark—and the words had a peculiar significance
com'ng from the lies of one whose hurrying away
from the Crimea in ’aDeaused him to be ranked as
tne ilritish “ Plon-plon ’’—that ho was one of those
who trusted that wars might be infrequent. We
thoroughly believe him.
Our views on the triangles and the cat-o’-
nine tails have been too often expressed to call for
recapitulation. But one thing staggers us. We’ve
endeavoured to cipher it out, but it is as hard as
a cubic equation. At Deniliquin, a prisoner is sen-
tenced to 10 lashes, shrieks frightfully at the first
and second, and faints after the third. Wherever
the punishment is applied in N.B. Wales, an accom-
paniment of j ells attends it. Yet the sufferers are
nearly all of lfritisn descent—some British born.
Now, wc have seen hundreds of British sailors and
soldiers flogged, and—with one exception—never
heard a gioan. And this at a time, mind you,
when 150 stripes were the least number awarded l
Indeed, when an exceptionally insubordinate cha-
racter had to be punished, the horrible custom was
sometimes indulged iu of steeping the “cat” in
brine, and theft insinuating small shot Into each of
the 81 knols. The result was notan “excoriation,”
as in the Deniliquin case, but the removal of a
mass of blood and tissue at every stroke. This
w«s the sort of punishment men had to put up
with not so many years ago. When cut down, they
appeared as if they’d just been taken off a dissect-
ing table. Talk of your floggings in N.S. Wales 1
Bah I the pluck of the race must be deteriorating.
are two 5000-gallon generators; and from these
the liquor passes, by means of pipes, to ten gigan-
tic vats, capable of holdi g near upon 80,000 gal-
lons of vinegar. From these vats the vinegar
comes clarified in the most effective mann< r; and
in order to save time and labour, the liquid, as it
flows from them, is forced, by three neat and
powerful steam pumps, to several smaller vats in
other parts of the premises, where the bottling
and corking is going along with great activity.
In point of fact, the vinegar, except when being
tested, is never seen from the first process till it is
obterved, in brilliant colours, in the various
bottles. In the bottling and capsuling departments
there are all the latest appliances, notably an
hydraulic appliance for fixing the capsule. The
Works form a great series of industiial catacombf,
there being case-making, cooperage, bottle wash-
ing, labelling, packing, and despatching branches,
each employing several hands; and beneath tfce
works, in every conceivable place, are stored
hundreds of thousands of bottle'’, ready for
immediate use. A few years ago, the output
of the works was good at 100 gallons of vinegar
per week—now the output varies between 2000
and 3000 gallons in bottles, and 500 bhds. for
the wholesale bulk houses. The foreign
and Eoglish manufactured articles are daily being
beaten out of tho market; in fact, the Australian
Vinegar Works hold the entire trade. Steady em-
ployment is given, one way or another, to not
many less than fifty hands. Prizo medals hav<
been won bv the Australian Vinegar Works for
exhibits at the .London International Exhibition,
and also at the Sydney and Melbourne Exhibi-
tions, and the recent World Exposition at Amster-
dam. Mr. D. J. M< nk, the i roprietor, who has
stuck to his uudert iking wit*i the per-
MStency, well deserves the support his enterprise
has won; and that further developments are pro-
jected, is proof that this support from the public
nasn't been th own away.


The Uralla peo pie should be blessed, for
there is only one Smoker in the town, and jus i e
is dispen*ed by a Roman. Happy community!
It was great fun the other day at Brisbane,
at the sports, when, at the finish of the bicycle
races, Stombueo, in his excitement, did an extra
round. The public, noting: the mistake, thought
they would take a rise out of him, and cheered
him along, saying, “Go it, Stombueo; Markweii’s
just behind.” Stombueo worked on manfully to
the winning-post, and, upon raising his eyes in
triumph, tv horn should he see but Markwell
sitting gr nning, with his leg over his bicycle. It
was really too bad; but Stombuco’s only swear
was “The devill”
It appears genuine—Finlay and Co.’s dis-
posal of £15,000 worth of freehold property by
art union. The drawing, we are told,' will
positively take place the 14th of March, 9000 out
of the 15,000 tickets having been disposed of
already. We suppose it to be bona fide, for many
reasons-among others, that the committee of
seven, are men of standing and good
report in Goulburn and its neighbour-
hood. We have endeavoured to work out the
winning numbers from the Apocalypse. We have
succeeded with the first three, but the smaller
prizes are too troublesome.*
ÜBLIC NOTICE
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
08. TWO DOORS NORTH OP OLD BH<5?
F
INEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ARE
VANITY PAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITV PAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.S.A.
The ELDRED'G E
NEW YORK
Correspondence Solicited
WITH RESPONSIBLE PARTIES
FOB, THE Xj—ADING
SEWING MACHINE OF THE WORLD,
Full particulars, catalogue and prices
.mailed on application.
<
CO
3
SEWING MACHINE CO.
EVERY'
MAN
SHOULD
READ j
Dr. Marstofl’s Work
__ &
Describing how sufferer: from
Prerrous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay ami all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, SERVO ITS, ANB IRPOTEET
MBS KKSTORBD TO
VIGOR, HEALTH A MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 SLIZABXTH ST., S7SHXY.
C °Uht
K,‘.'
fi epared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED POR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
iMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
I3F" No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
_, , Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. 1 find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression f ollowing overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of UKdoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
. Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all oases where tber s
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. Wit i
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable me u-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for seve-al
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffer ng
from indigestion or innervation of the digest ve
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of mor aid
urine, * it acts like a charm,’ producing the desi ed
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1881.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, iti elegance of con-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
HvdZstgac Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It Works like a Charm."
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles now life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenchos fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramp*, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sure Throat, and Dyp-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers in
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou ithe colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their l-.nish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage buiiders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they ark thi
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
HARROW .MOXHAM & CO..
bo.r Agenif
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Private letters say that the new Bishop
will give a decided tone—a Barrytone—to the Low
Church services at the Sydney cathedral.
Sydney Linton, Bishop-elect of Riverina,
was educated at Rugby and Wadham Coll., Oxon.
First clasi in cricket; second class in Law and
Mod. History. Isanextreme “evangelical.” From
'7O to'77 was vicar of Holy Trinity, Oxford; and
from ’77 to dat« of appointment.toseeof Riverina,
vicar of St. Phillips, Higham, Norwich. The Aus-
tralasian says“lt is not long since an Austral-
asian Bishop—Bishop Selwyn, of Melanesia—was
coaching a college four on the river in Melbourne.
Perhaps we may yet have a bishop in a New South
Wales eleven.”
You can often feel through the Herald
or Echo, the feeble pulse of the sects. The Echo
says “Dr. Steel touched the cause of failing in-
terest in meetings lor united prayer in this city,
when he said that instead of meeting in a neutral
place he preferred to meet in the different
churches.” And the journal adds: “The neutral
platform neutralises everything iu its presence.
That which is des(ructive~of churches fades before
it, and that which is common to them is colour-
less.” This is about as extraordinary an admission
as ever came from a business pulpit. On the
neutral platform there is ho Christianity according
to each sect—and what is common to them is
colourless. Just so—a colourless Christianity.
The Howl says that Evolution aud Chris-
tianity “ are vitally opposed and can never ho re-
conciled.” Well, so much the worse for—Evolu-
tion. Oh 1 and having given a concise definition
of the Creator, it tackles the angels, &c. Of them
it says “there are also numbers of spiritual exis-
tences, associated with, or disassociated from,
material forms, which have an existence of their
own given them, apaiptfrom all matter.” It is as
well this vexed question is settled at last. And
again, “ It is absurd for men to profess the Chris-
tian faith .... and to deny that God answers
firayer in regard to wind and weather.” Are you
istening Dr. Moorhouse t After all, the question
need not bo whether prayers be answered, but
whether all prayers are answered, including peti-
tions which are equally impudent and silly, such
as demanding that Omniscience shall alter his
plans about tuo weather to suit the ideas of a fool
in a white necktie.
Mr. Hevlyn Hayter, whose habit it, has
been to run the Chinese of Victoria under the
heading of Pagans, is the recipient of some mild
remonstrances. It is contented that John is
actually a Deist. Mr. Hodges, the Government
Interpreter, translates a lot of what may be called
tho Chinese book of common prayer into in-
different English to make good this contention.
Apart from the laudable' desire that statistical
tables should be accurate, reasons exist for urging
Mr. Hayter, if the fact be as represented, to put
the Chinese into their proper place. Students like
to see at a glance how many people in the colony
believe that Viotoria is administered subject to
Divine control. Lots ofjthings como near being
explained when the figures can be relied on. For
instance, if the Chinese be totted up along with
believers, it will be manifest that all to a very in-
significant fraction of {he colony is God-fearing on
principle, aud out of this circumstance will at
once be deduced a la(rly satisfactory explanation
of the political dishonesty and religious humbug
of that great division of the earth.
The Daily Telegraph (Jan. 3) expended
no inconsiderable amount of melted butter in
seeking to conciliate the Anglican subscriber by
extravagantly lauding Bishop Barry and compli-
menting the Church of England. Bishop Barry
may possibly bo all that the Telegraph says he is.
Time will tell. But what is to be said of the utterly
unfounded and astounding statement that “ tbe
Church of England thoroughly understands the
modern intellect, with all its doubtings and ques-
tionings in regard to important Christian verities,
and knows hbw to adapt itself thereto without
sacrificing an iota of principle or fact” ? This is,
indeed, news. For our owu part, we must con l ess
wo have always been and still are under the im-
pression that the Church of England’s weakest
point was its inability to adapt itself either to the
modern intellect or the modern environment, and
that its modern history is a record (just as its oast
was) of a constant sacrifice not merely of its lotas
but of solid junks both of principle and fact In a
vaia and hopeless endeavour to put new wine into
old skins.
The election of a member of the Order of
Jesus to the Rectorship of St. John’s College has
naturally excited the bile not merely of . vangeli-
cal Protestants, who consider the Jesuit to be
several shades blacker than the Devil of Hell, but
of a not inconsiderable section of the Catholic
community. We don t think that, qua religion
and politics, therb’smore real distinction between
a Jesuit and any other sort of priest than there is
betwixt an attorney and a barrister, or an alligator
and a crocodile. tHence, whether a Jesuit or a
Benedictine bossej St. John’s appears to us to he a
mere question of tweedledum andtweedledee. As
educators the Jesims (to paraphrase Emerson) build
better than they know. Their ratio studiorum is a
splendid mental curriculum. Itapueais less to the
superstitious and more to the intellectual than
most clerical scholastic schemes. It turned out
Descartes, Vpltaire, Mqntesquieu. Better, a thou-
sand times bettor, that there were no conventual
colleges-no soul-enslaving clerical seminarists;
but since of two or more evils tho philosopher
chooses the feast, it is better that young Johnians
should be under the control of an intellectually
aotive Jesuit than that of paunohy, three-chiuned
believers in idleness and mendicancy.
Some weeks ago, w,e drew attention to the
starting 1 of a Boys’ Club at Ultimo, the object of
which was to provide lads with a more wholesome
place of annuement than the 6treet corner. It ’a
growing rapidly, and members have increased so
that both additional help and funds would be
gladly received. The Club is now open every
week night except Saturday, and men and women
willing to give more substantial help than mere
good wishes should communicate with the secre-
tary, Miss C. A. a Beckett, Ashtield
Owing to the place being opened live evenings a
week, instead of two as at first, there is room lor
at least ten people (say, live of each sex) who
would be willing to give practical assistance once
a week or oftener. There is scarcely a street
corner but has its group of boys lounging round
at night—never for good. It would be better to
look after these than to send all the tracts in the
world to island- In the Pacific. The promoters of
the Young Australian Club do not gush over in-
teresting anddisiantdarkies, who would be a heap
happier if left alone. They find useful work re
quiring to be done right un ler their noses, and
they turn to and do it.
A Chance for City Investors.—A first-
class opportunity to invest in a block of real good
city prop rty and land w ill be afforded inv< stors at
Mills and Pile’s msrt to-day, 'I hursday. January
17, at 1139 am. The property is that very eligible
bloca of land long occupied by Mr. J. Murphy,
corner of Kent an 1 Liverpool streeis, end withiu
(sas) about cixty feet of Ueorge-sti eet. 'lmso
premises have cirriel along one of the best-
paying pawn ollices and monetary businesses
together with a clothes trade, to be found in
by ne.v. It is splendidly situated, being on tho
crest of the hill, a d is a corner block to two very
important thoroughfares The land will doubtless
be readily s ized upon by investors on the look cut
tor land for factory or other similar purposes, as
all the available sites for such uses are either sold
or are tlxed at figures so high as to almost preclude
purchase. Tho question is whether this is not a
site the Government ought to purchase at once
for public purposes, with a view to our future
railway requirements. The proprietor, Mr. J.
Murphy, being about to relinquish business and
proceed homeward on a well-earned tour, gives
the Government a chance of purchasing at a fair
figure—not an exorbitant advance, as is usually
the case. Should nothing be done In this directio.T
the property is certain to be immediately bought
up for Industrial Or business purposes. I
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume eannot expect to heme their com-
munications noticed .]
“A.R.P.”: You’ve missed it again: why
Icy blast ?” Is the hero in the chilling chamber
ot a meat-freezing establishment? “X.”: We
are as much at a loss as you are to account for the
JN.S.W. hoard of Technical Education having
classified “Constitutional History,” "Herman,’
•French,” and "Latin” in the "Department of
Commercial Economy.” “Kubla Khan” (Goul-
burn): Just disinterred your “ Pecksnoodle’s
Troubles.” You should have chosen a more ap-
propriate nom-dc-plume. Kubla Khant would
about suit "Drill Sergeant”: Yes; a fugle-
man may be called a “ leader ohne worte.”
*J.C.C.” : Kather long-winded, isn’t it? Try
something short and snappy—like a bull-terrier.
“ Madge Wildfire ”: V our verses are quite too
utter-in fact, by us they are unutterable. By
tfie bye, we would advise you not to crush with a
passionate grasp the vine of love, lawless and late,
else you may chance to get run in. Jf you really
wish to become a poet, strive first for sense, then
let the transcendental come as it will “ E.J.W.”
(Springwood): The seven-foot railway gauge is
not now in use in England. The British rail-
way gauge was fixed in 1848 by statute at 4ft.B)4in.
(the Great Western line being specially excluded).
Some years later the Great Western directorate
voluntarily came in to the statute gauge “R.
Dickens ”: You ask us to.what use the aboriginals
put their stone axes. We wul tell you. Theyused
them to kill people who asked them idle questions.
....“Philo” (Newcastle): Thauas. Tne item is
certainly funny. But the humour is too Rabelai-
sian tor us. Wo do not print any thing that would
raise a blush, &c. Though, for the matterof that,
there are not many things that would in these
days raise a blush, Ac. Paiut will aud that is about
ail. Still the item seems more suitable to a reli-
gious paper. The giddiness of religious editors has
passed into a proverb "D. Moore ’’: No interest.
“E.H. M. (Charters Towers): Received. Just
a little short of the mirk. Try again “J.M.C.”:
Much thanks,Just our style “Wattle-blossom ”:
We regret that we cannot print your verses. To
do so would be more than our lives ure worth.
But we give you a verse of our own, which you
can stick in your little album opposite your
daguerreotype, or put into your locket with the
horsehair of your young man. Here it is:—
Though we don't print them, do not weep,
Dear girl, but kiss your “feller;”
Your verses we shall always keep
Yes, keep them iu the cellar.
....“Queenslander:” Thanks; Will mention the
matter shortly.
PATENT LIFE PRESERVER.
No swimmer should be without it. KNOWLEDGE says:—“Lives might be saved if
meu when swimming far had a small flask of brandy round the neck. Sudden failure
of the heart’s action oould then be met by a pull at the stimulant, which is also an
antidote to cramp.”
Special Answer to an M.A. (Sydney Univer-
sity).
No; you are in error. The comet “Pons,” isnot
the “ aainorum ” of your youth, but belongs to a
distant branch of another family, who came over
from “space” ever so long ago, and obtained a
sort of precarious footing in the solar system. She
(they are supposed to be females, on account of
their trains) is one of a large nomadic tribe who,
liKe Irish landlords, are seldom at home. Their
claim to a place in our system is often disputed,
and they never remain long enough with us to
substantiate it properly. Once a century or so
they sneak: round our way, just for a good warm,
and to show tney have no notion of reiioqnishing
their claim. Then they are lost sight of for years,
and we never know what doubtful liaisons they
contract when the controlling influence of the sun
who, they pretend, has such an attraction for them,
is lessened. Their movements are altogether sus-
picious: they are the Jshmaels of the planetary
family. On many occasions they havo made ad-
vances towards the sun himself, whom they claim
as their common parent. Once or twice ho ap-
peared on the point of embracing them, and the
planets—the respectable members cf the fami y
who are noted for th°ir “ peaceful i evolutions ”
or inti l lge in the mildest eccentricities only—weie
anxious lest he should forget their welfare in the
fei vo r of his embn ee. They are a queer lot
entirely, even tuis Mss Pons ha\inf been away
from home for over 70 years. Of course you can
keep your eye on her; but short acquaintances ai e
best, as the blue-bottle remarked when alighting
on the fire-shovel instead of the mutton-chop.
Dr. Anna Potts has baen advising -Mel-
bourne young men not to dream of entering into
the holy bonds of matrimony with girls who wear
corsets, and that lady's remarks have fallen like a
bomb shell In the matrimonial market. Every-
where we h*ar of matches being broken off,
because Adolnhus has come to the conclusion
that Angelinas waist is “too doosed small to be
quite genuine, you know.” The National Gallery,
too, is crowded with mashers, taking earefui tape
measurements of the torsos of the leading god-
desses, so as to get an idea of the dimensions of a
waist in its natural state. The result of their
researches is that they are turning up their noses
at the sylph-like forms they formerly admired,
and poor girls who have been built up on modern
principles find themselves neglected. Modest
young fellows admit that it is impossible for them
to tell for certain whether their girls wear armour
or not, so unless they can lure the little innocents
on to make the all-important disclosure, they are
bound to stand or fall by the goddesses.
THE NEW DOCTRINE.
Bill Brown he was a baker—
Miss Mary was his mash—
His wife he wished to make her
(For Bill was young and rash);
She was loving, true, and tender,
Her big blue eye wes bright,
And her waist so very slender
That she loved to squeeze it tight.
The day was fixed, or nearly,
Which should crown his earthly bliss,
When the maid ho loved so dearly
Would no longer be a miss ;
But he read what Dr. Anna
Had been stating about s —,
And his strangely altered manner
Pilled his Mary with amaze.
So commenting on his coldness,
She took William B. to task.
When he said “ Excuse my boldness,
While, with bated breath, l ask
If your waist’s within a corset?
Oh, now tell me, Mary, true.”
And she answered “ Why, of course it
Is—l always thought >ou knew.”
Then spake William with emotion,
“ Oh I my loving, little queen,
Once l gloried in the notion
That your waist was ‘ seventeen,’
And felt happy in embracing
Such a small one, till I read
Of the dangers of tight-lacing,
And what Dr. Anna said.
“ Now I know it must be madness
To select you for a wife,
And the one bright page of gladness
Must be blotted from my life.
Our engagement, dear, is ended,
Though my love has not decreased
But the waist of my * intended ’
Must be * thirty-two' at leait.”


The Treasury, New South Wales,
15tli December. 1883.
£IONTRACTB FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
METHOPOLITAN DISTRICT,
DARLINGHURST «AOL,
THE NAUTICAL SCHOOL-SHIP VERNON.
THE RECEPTION HOUSE FOR THE INSANE,
Darlinghurst,
THE SHAFTESBURY REFORMATORY,
THE INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL FOR GIRLS,
BILOELA;
And all Government Establishments nototherwise
provided for.
TENDERS will be received for this section,
separately or together.
Notice is hereby given that Tenders will be
received at this Office, until noon of Thursdav,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be
required during twelve calendar months lrom
the Ist April, 1881, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
partieulars and information, may be obtained on
application at this Office, or at the Office of the
Comptroller-tieneral of Prisons.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the performance of the contract, in the event
of the tender being accepted; and undertaking in
that event that they will severally call at the
Treasury and execute and deliver, within four-
teen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise the contract
anew, or to accept another Tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“ Tender for Supplies, Metropolitan District.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.- Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice shall be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£jONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
SUPPLIES FOR THE PERMANENT MILITARY
FORCE,
Sydney and Newcastle.
TENDERS will be received at this Office, until
noon of Thursday, the 21st February next, for
furnishing on account of the Public Service the
supplies undermentioned, in such quantities as
niuy be required during twelve calender months
from the Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions here-
inafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or the Brigade Office.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract in the
event of tho tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing sueh
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not Ibe executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date of
notification of acceptance, tho Government re-
serves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should bo addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tender for Provisions for Military Force ”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B —The accepted Tender will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
Forartielesof supply and couditionsof contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1833.
£JONTRACT3 FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, GLAD3VILLE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will bo
received at this Office until noon of I'HURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may ue re-
quiried, during twelve calendar months, from the
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any fuither
particulars and intormation, may he obtuined on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties agreeing to be responsible
toa the due performance of the contract in the
event of the Tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majes'y for securing such
iperiormanee. otherwise the Tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond net be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another Tender.
Tenders snould bo addressed to the Under-
secretary f. r Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tenders for Supplies, Giadcsville.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Goaehnment Gazette, and such notices will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders haae been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
Tho Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1883.
{CONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
IIOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE, CALLAN
PARK.
NOTICE Is hereby given that Tenders will bo
received at this Office until noon on THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing tho supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months from the
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms Of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may f.e obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum,; signed by the party tendering and
1 wo approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract In the
event of tho tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that qvent that they will severally call at
tie Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“Tender for Supplies, Callan Park.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
lender.
The costlef the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will bo
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS
The Treasury, New South Wales,
December 15,1883.
£IONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, NEWCASTLE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months, from Ist
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
lor the due performance of the Contract, in the
event of the Tender being accepted; and under-
taking, in that event, that they will execute and
deliver, within fourteen days from the usual noti-
fication of the acceptance, a bond of Her Majesty
lor securing such performance, otherwise the
Tender will not bo taken into consideration
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the contract anew or
to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tender
for Supplies, Newcastle.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary duty stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
I< or articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
C
ONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
THE QUARANTINE ESTABLISHMENT
LITTLE BAY.
Notice is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY
the 21st February next, for furnishing the sup-
plies undermentioned, in such quantities as may
be required during twelve calendar months from
the Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and in formation,“may be obtained on
application at the Treasury.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of ihe contract, in the
event of the Tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty lor securing
such performance, otherwise (he Tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the ssid term of fourteen days from date of
notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the Contract anew or
to accept another Tender.
tqjTenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorstd
“Tender for Supplies, Little Bay.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N. B.—The Accepted Tender will be notified in
the Government Gazette, and such notice will
be considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their tenders have been declined
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
c
The Treasury. New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
ONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
QUARANTINE STATION, NORTH HEAD.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
tho 21st February next, for furnishingthesupplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months from the
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
applicaiion at the Treasury.
At tt>e foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise the contract
anew or to accept another tender.
' enders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for inance and Trade, and endorsed “Ten-
ders for Supplies, North Head.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
t nder.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.H.—The accepted tender will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
I or articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE
COUNTRY DISTRICTS.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will b<
received at this Ofiico until noon of THURSDAY
the 21st February next, for furnishing, on accoun
ot the Public Service, tho supplies undermen
tioned, in such quantities as may be requirec
during twelve calendar months, from the Ist
April, 188 i, upon the conditions hereinafter sped
lien.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any furthei
particulars and Information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or at the establish-
ments for which the supplies are required.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the coutract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking, in that event, that they will severally
execute and deliver, within fourteen days from
the usual notification of acceptance, a bond to
Her Majesty for securing such performance, other-
wise the tender will not be taken into considera-
tion.
Should the bond not bo executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Bonds will only be required where the annual
supply is estimated at £l5O or over.
Separate tenders will be required for the several
services specified.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Ten-
der for Provisions, &c.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
Gaols at—
Albury
Armidale
Bathurst
Berrima
SERIES 1.
Goulburn
Maitland
Mudgee
Gaols at—
Bega
Bingera
Braid wood
Bourke
Campbelltown
Casino
Cooma
Coonabarabran
Coonamble
Deniliquin
Dubbo
Forbes
SERIES 2.
Glen Innes
Grafton
Grenfell
Gundagai
Gunnedah
Hay
Inverell
Murrurundi
Muswellbrook
Narrabri
Orango
Port Macquarie
Parramatta
Tamworth
Young
Queanbeyan
Singleton
Tenterfield
Wagga Wagga
WaJgett
Warialda
Wellington
Wentworth
Wilcannia
Windsor
Wollongong
Yass.
For particulars of rations, &c., and conditions
of contract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£IONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, PARRAMATTA.
Notice is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon on THURSDAY,
the 2lst February next, for furnishing, on account
of the Public Service, the supplies under-men-
tioned, in such quantities as may bo required
during eight calendar months from the Ist April,
188 t, upon the conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be respon-
sible for the due performance or the contract, in
the event of the Tender being accepted; and
undertaking in that event that they will severally
call sit the Treasury and execute and deliver,
within fourteen days from the usual notification
of acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the Tender will not
be taken into consideration,
Should the Bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteon days from notifi-
cation of acceptance, the Government reserves
the right to advertise the contract anew, or to
accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“Tender for Supplies, Parramatta ”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of oontraot,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£<ONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
TEMPORARY HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE,
COOMA.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERB will be
received at this Office, until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishiHg the Supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be
required during twelve calendar months from the
Ist Apr 1, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the Tender bei' g accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will execute and
deliver within fourteen days from the usual
notification of acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty
for securing such performance, otherwise the
tender will not be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise the contract
anew or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under
Secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
Tender for Supplies, Coema.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or anv
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamp must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply, and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
lONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
H.M.C.S. WOLVERENE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
recesved at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st of February next, for furnishing the
supplies undermentioned, in such quantities as
may be required during twelve calendar months,
from the Ist April, 1884. upon the conditions here-
inafter specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may bo obtained on
application at this Office.
At the foot of every tender there must bo a
memorandum, signed by the narty tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender beiog accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tenders for Supplies, H.M.C.B. Wolverene.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Gov-
ernment will not necessarily accept the lowest or
any tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
, N.B.—The accepted tender will be notified In
the Government Gazette, and such notice will
bo considered as an intimation to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For artioles of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£IONTRAGTB FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
PROTEBTANT AND ROMAN CATHOLIC
ORPHAN SCHOOLS, PARRAMATTA.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
reoeivcd at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 31st February next, for furnishing on account
of the Public Service, the supplies undermen-
tioned, in such quantities as may be required
during twelve calendar months from the Ist
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
apgßoation at the Treasury or at the Orphan
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to bo responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Bhould the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contra n t anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
"Tenders for Supplies, Orphan Schools.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Gov-
ernment will not necessarily accept the lowest or
any tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R, DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
CONTRACTS FOR SUPPLIES FOR THE
GOVERNMENT ASYLUM AT SYDNEY
(HYDE PARK ASYLUM).
TENDERS will be received at this Office, until
12 o'clock on THURSDAY, the 21st February next,
for Furnishing the Supplies undermentioned, in
such quantities as may be required during twelve
callendar months from the Ist April, 1884, upon
the conditions hereinafter specified,
Printed forms of tender may be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the Office of the Manager of the
Government Asylums, where further particulars
and information may be obtained.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accep-
tance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise such tender will not bo
taken into consideration,
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender
for Supplies, Government Asylum, Hyde Park.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to the unsuccess-
ful Tenderers that their Tenders have been de-
clined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury of Now South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
Contracts for supplies for the
GOVERNMENT ASYLUMS AT GEORGE
MATTA ACQUARIE BTREETS * P^RRA-
TENDERS will be received at this Office until
noon of THURSDAY- the 21st February next, foi
Furnishing the Supplies undermentioned, in suet
quantities as may be required during twelvi
calendar months, from the Ist April, 1884, upon
the conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender may be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the Office of the Manager of Go-
vernment Asylums, where further particulars and
Information may be obtained.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party Tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract In the
event of the Tender being accepted; and under-
taking, in that event, that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance (otherwise such Tender will not bo
taken into consideration).
Shouldthebond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of nutmeation of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to aoeept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender
for Supplies, Government Asylums, Parramatta ’
It Is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or anv
Tender. J
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined
For articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.


Department of Mines,
Stock Branch,
Sydney, 19th December, 1883.
ETURNS UNDERTHE RABBIT NUISANCE,
i DISEASES IN SHEEP, AND PASTURES
AND STOCK PROTECTION ACTS.
Owners of Sheep, Large Stock and Land liable to
contribution and assessment under the Rabbit
Nuisance and Diseases in Sheep Acts are reminded
that their returns must be made to the Clerks of
Petty Sessions; and those under the Pastures and
Stock Protection Acts to the respective Inspectors
of Stock, on or before the Ist January next, 1884.
ALEX. BRUCE,
Chief Inspector of Stock.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15tn December, 1883.
lONTRACTS FOR SUPPLIES FOR THE GO-
' VERNMENT ASYLUM AT LIVERPOOL.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 13
o'clock on THURSDAY, the 21st February next,
for furnishing the supplies undermentioned, in
such quantities as may be required during twelve
calender months, from the Ist April, 1884, upon the
conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender may be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the office of the Manager of the
Government Asylums, where further particulars
and information may be obtained.
At the toot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the duo performance of the contract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance (otherwise such tender will n-»t be
taken into consideration).
Should tho bond not be exeouted and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders to be addressed to tho Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender for
Supplies, Government Asylum, Liverpool."
It is to be distinctly understood that tho Govern-
ment will not necessarily aocept the lowest or any
tender. ~
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor,
O.B.—Accepted tenders will bo notified in the
GovttRNMSNr Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as au intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For particulars of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1883.
FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
Forage for public departments—me-
tropolitan AND PARRAMATTA
DISTRICTS.
NOTICE Is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, ror furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calender months from the
Ist April, 1881, upon tho conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsive
for the due performance of the contraot, in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will call at the
Treasury and severally execute and deliver, with-
in fourteen days from the usual notification ot ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of 14 davs from date of noti-
fication of acceptance, the Government reserves
the right to advertise the contract anew or to ac-
oept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed "Tender
for Forage."
The tenders for each district will be accepted or
rejected separately.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
The forage to be delivered in bulk, as ordered ;
the net weight only, after d 'ucting the tare, to
be charged.
N.8.-Accepted tenders wul be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
PARTICULAR*.
Maize, per bush'd of 56 lb.
Or Oats, ditto 40 lb.
Bran, ditto 20 lb.
Hay, Oaten, at per ton of 2240 lb.
Ditto, Lucerne, ditto 2240 lb.
Straw, ditto 22*0 lb.
AS REQUIRED.
Forage.
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT.
All Government Establishments and Services not
otherwise provided for by contract.
PARRAMATTA DISTRICT.
All Government Establishments and Services not
otherwise provided for by contract.
For conditions of contract, see Government
Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, Now South Wales,
Clsth December, 1883.
ONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE
FORAGE FOR THE POLICE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will b
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplie
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re
quired during twelve calender months from thi
Ist April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinaftei
specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any furthe;
particulars and information,- may be obtained oi
application at the Treasury, at the Office of thi
Inspector General of Police, or at the stations foi
which the supplies are required.
Bonds will be required for the following stations
namely Metropolitan, Armidale, Goulbum
Bathurst, Mudgee, Orange, Forbes, Dubbo, Mait
land (East and West). Tamworth, Deniliquin
Narribri, Albury, and Wagga Wagga.
Bonds must be signed within fourteen dayi
from date of notification of acceptance, failing
which the contract will be liable to cancellation.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tendei
for Forage.” (Not more than one station to be in-
cluded in each Tender.)
The tenders for each station will be aocepted oi
rejected separately.
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily aocept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamp must be
borne by the contractor.
.The forage to be delivered in bulk, as ordered •
charged W 6 g ht only ’ after deducting the fare to be
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in tho
government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
PARTICULARS.
Maize, per bushel of 56 lbs.
Or Oats „ 40 lbs.
Bran „ 3-ilbe.
Hay per ton of 2240 lbi.
Straw „ 2240 lba.
Stations.
Probable No. of
Hors 68 to be
Foraged.
Stations.
probable No. of
Horses to be
F© raged.
For conditions of contract see Government
Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS,
omit B bmt
TOBACCO WAEUBBOUSE
pal
h
&
vt
S
>&
SS
(CSV:
S'
aw
n.
HAYMAEKET. SYDNEY.
ZST" Please cut this out and read carefully, as it
will not appear again.
Day of Drawing positively fixed for
FRIDAY, 14th MARCH.
SECOND PROSPECTUS,
with additions and business done to date.
UPWARDS OF 9000 TICKETS SOLD.
First Prize £BOOO, for £l.
£15,000 Worth
OF
Freehold Properties
To be disposed of by subscription on the Art
Union principle.
The lots offered are the following value :
£BOOO, £3OOO, £2OOO, £BOO, £4OO, £l5O, 2 at £l2O,
1 at £B5, 3 at £75, 4 at £25.
A certainty of a Fortune to some one. A splendid
provision lor the future.
15,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
Note.—Already upwards of 9000 have been sold
(10th January), and now that the day is fixed, it is
believed tbat in a fortnight hence all will be sold
and at a premium, If the tickets are ail taken up
before application is received, the agents (Messrs.
Finlay and Co.) guarantee to return the money by
return post.
The only Art Union of this hind that guarantees the
day of Drawing, 14th March.
Any day the list may be filled up, so write for
ticket, enclosing fee, the moment you have read,
with stamp and exchange.
Ist Prize, £8000.—“ Hardwicke Estate,” Yass, N.S.
Wales, 2700 acres, well watered, about 200 acres
cultivation paddocks; situate on the Yass
River, to which it has a frontage of about 1%
mile. The homestead is about 2 miles from the
town of Yass, which is connected with Sydney
and Melbourne by rail.
2nd Prize, £3ooo.—Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
N.S.W., and close to railway.
3rd Prize, £2000.—“ St. Kilda House,” city of Goul-
burn.
4th Prize, £Boo.—Two-storied House in Cliff ord-
street, Goulburn, ten minutes’ walk from Rail-
way Station.
sth Prize, £4oo.—Splendid Half-acre Allotment of
Land in Bourke-street, near the R.C. Orphan-
age, with cottage at present rented for £3l 14s
per annum,
6th Prize, £150. Improved Farm, 32 Acres, close
to Gunnin*.
7th Prize, £l2o.—Choice Building Site in Citi/en-
street, Goulburn, overlooking the well-known
“Kenmoro Estate;” 41 feet frontage, with a
depth of 77 feet.
Bth Prize, £l2o.—Another Excellent Allotment in
Citizen-street, at the rear of “St. Kilda House,”
and facing “Balmoral House;” 51 feet front
age, by a depth of 77 feet; divided from 7th
Prize, by a 20-feet lane.
9th Prize, £Bs.—Farm, 30 Acres, near Gunning.
10th Prize, £7s.—Allotment of Land at North Goul-
burn; M acre.
11th Prize, £7s.—Allotment of Land at North Goul-
burn; 34 acre.
12th Prize, £7s.—Allotment of Land at North Goul-
burn; acre.
13th Prize, £2s.—Half-acre Allotment in the Town
of Gunning.
14th Prize, £2s.—Half-acre Allotment in the Town
of Gunning.
15th Prize, £2s.—Half-acre Allotment in the Town
of Gunning.
16th Prize, £2s.—Half-acre Allotment in the Town
of Gunning.
The following gentlemen have consented to act
as a Committee:—
J. T. Gannon, Esq., M.L.A., Goulburn
John Badgery, Esq., Suttcn Forest
A. M. Betts, Esq., bolicitor, Goulburn
R. C. Cooper, Esq., Willeroo, Lake George
John Davidson, Esq.. Solicitor, Goulburn
S. Emanuel, Esq., J.P., Goulburn
S. Meyer, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
The Drawing will take place in the Mechanics’
Institute, Goulburn, in the presence of the com-
mittee and will be open to the shareholders. The
result of the Drawing will be published in the
Sydney Mokning Herald, Sydney Mail, anu
Town and Country Journal.
Deeds of properties wib bo conveyed to the suc-
cessful drawers free of cost, and possession given
as soon as the tr.infers are completed. All the pro-
perties are freehold, with approved titles, and the
Deeds may be inspected at any time on application.
Intending: Subscribers must forward their names
and address by letter with Post-oflico order or
crossed cheque, with exchange added and stamp
for reply, addressed—
FINLAY AND (JO.,
Land Agents, Belmore-square, Goulburn,
N. S. WALES.
Finlay and Co., Goulburn, at the request of John
San4s, Esq., sole proprietor of the above Valuablo
Properties, have undertaken as his agents to bring
this solid and genuine Investment under the “ Art
Union Principle” to a successful termination. The
inducement for accepting this special agency under
the above programme, is a knowledge that the
Properties are good value for the Prizes named,
and that Mr. Sands has unreservedly placed the
matter with them, in so far as guaranteeing the
day of drawing, which will positively take place
as announced in the presence of the influential
committee named on Friday, 14th March, and will
be open to shareholders.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, Bth January, 1884.
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of a
Wooden Building for Public School purposes,
at Burwood.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of lender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Wooden Build-
ing, Burwood Public School,” must be lodged with
the Acting Under-Secretary, Department ot Pub-
lic Instruction, at or before 10 o'clock a.m., on
Wednesday, 30th January, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 9th January, 1884.
TENDERS FOR SCHOOL BELLS.
TENDERS are invited for a supply of Bells re-
quired for Public Schools under this Depart-
ment for a term of three years.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for supply of School
Bells,” must be lodged with the Acting Under-
secretary, Department of Public Instruction,
at or besore 10 o’clock a.m., on Friday, the 29th
February, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. 11. REID.
HIG-GIN’S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
JOHN P. COWLES,
Tea Inspector, Packer, & [Shipper,
FOOCHOW, CHINA.


Christopher Newton, Esq.
On the front, page of our issue this week appears
a portrait of Mr. Christopher Newton, a tho-
roughly worthy representative of the mercantile
community of this country. There is, probably, no
single individual identified with commerce in these
Earts of whose stability and integrity the public
ave had such solid proof. Mr. Newton was born
at Hexham, Newcastle-on-Tyne, in 1818, and re-
ceived a thoroughly sound English education,
fitting him for mercantile pursuits. At an early
age he entered a soft-goods house, and shortly
after arriving here, in 1840, he was able to start a
business of this description, which won him con-
siderable success. Occupied for a time in the
retail trade, Mr. Newton saw an opening for a
vigorously conducted importing house, and on
this wider basis exactly 33 years ago, he established
a house next the present Itoyal Hotel, in George-
street. The house ran into a sound and prosper-
ous trade, soon occupying almost the first position
among similar enterprises. In the height of suc-
cess, however, the firm suddenly became involved
in the most serious difficulties, insolvency being
inevitable. It appears that the resident London
partner drew numerous bills, which cast the firm
in losses to the extent of many thousands of
pounds. These bills Mr. Newton honoured; but
was forced to compound, paying the creditors lis.
in the £. This arrangement entirely freed him
from his financial responsibilities, and Mr. Newton
resumed business with fresh energy. After some
years of further success in George-street, the firm
reuloved, ten years ago, ro the splendid premises
in Pitt-street, which they have ever since occu-
pied. M>- Newton. now being sole proprietor,
reconstructed the firm by taking in his three sods
and two sons in-law. the title of the new firm
being “ Christopher Newton, Sons, and Company,”
though business is carried on until the title of
“Christopher Newton, Brother, and Company.”
Having thus virtually retired from the business—
or, at least, from its active management—Mr.
Newton determined to carry out what had long
been his firmest resolve. Two years ago, be
Sroceeded to England, ostensibly to enjoy a tour*
ut really on more serious business. Arriv-
ing in London, he met all the creditors in the
estate of the old firm, and to these from his
private purse he made good the deficiency—the
total reaching near upon £40,000. Mr. Newton was
the only member of ihe old firm remaining; and
though financially free from such obligation, yet
was determined io do his own name justice, and
leave to bis successors a business of untarnished
reputation. In recognition of this uprightness,
the creditors of the estate spontaneously ban-
queted Mr. Newton, and subscribed a sum of 2000
as a testimonial to him—the presentation, when
being made, being distinctly stated to be
from the mercantile and manufacturing com-
munity of England. The lund of £2OOO was de-
voted to the very suitable purpose of purchasing a
splendid steam yacht. At the same time that this
presentation took place, a handsome gift of dia-
mond jewellery of rare value was made to Mrs.
Newton. It may here bo mentioned that the lady
just spokon of, to whom Mr. Newton was married
in 1847, is the daughter of the late Mr T ohn Black-
man, one of the business pioneers of Sydney.—
The yacht with which Mr. Newton was presented
has been sketched by our artist and will,
with a description, appear in our next issue.
It is designed on the latest approved prin-
ciples, and is furnished with machinery from
the celebrated firm of English engineers, Messrs.
Bow, M'Laughlin, and Co., Paisley. The work of
construction was carried out at the yards of Mr.
Dunn, marine architect and builder, of Berry’s
Bay, Port Jackson. The yacht is 69 feet over all,
with corresponding breadth of beam, and is one oi
the handsomest additions our colonial yaoht.ing
fleet has received. A silver plate is to be fixed in
the launch and to bear the following inscription:
“ This Steam Launch (accompanied by a diamond
ring and silver bracelet for Mrs. Newton) was pre-
sented to Christopher Newtofi, Esq., by a number
of British manufacturers and merchants, as a mark
of their sincere esteem, and of their deep sense of
his honourable dealings with them during a long
aad arduous commercial career.—John Scott (on
behalf of the subscribers). Oct. 19, 1882.”
At Queanbeyan, on Saturday last, Bellette
easily defeated M’Tiernen in a 125 yards spin, for
£lOO.
Quirindi raoes on Saturday last. Chelsie
won the Maiden Plate. The Quirindi Handicap
was appropriated by The Novice. New Year won
the Farmers’ Pace. The Novice scored a second
wi-ii in the Flying Handicap. Jimmy Fletcher won
the Selling Kace; and Stranger won the Forced
Handicap.
Indigestion, weak stomach, irregularities
of the bowels, cannot exist when Hop Bitters are
used. See.
JjJl URNITURE BHO
W ROOM
H
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O'Connell and Spring street*. Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDS,
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
a nA
Library furniture, centre and sid*
TABLES. BOOKCASEB, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China,
VERY ELEGANT, just reoeived. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
TTIURNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
JC THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. O’Connell-street.
ARBLE-TOP f ABBES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants.
smoking 1 rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feefe
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O'Connell streets. Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDRO.OM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
TON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
108; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
E
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound,
o&OO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
,CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
O
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
ASY~OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
TVRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JLf A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Priced, from 12s 6d.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two l aves : LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
[ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
D
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
Bitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, mid light, weighing oni.v ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
TARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
~ VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
fTIRAME WORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JP TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and blaek and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
BRAD -
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; beet make, lowest prices.
SOCIAL.
Though the sky was dull for onlookers,
yet the weather was all that could be wanted for
the Snail’s Hay regatta, and the “ Port Jackson ”
flagship was so scrupulously clean that the ladies
could spread their skirts anywhere without get-
ting them soiled. Captain Crombie was very at-
tentive, and a pretty cabin was set entirely apart
for the fair visitors, where a dainty sideboard was
spread for them with ice-creams, claret cup, and
so on. The tine four-master is very long, and
there was a splendid promenade the wnole length,
tho Vernon boys playing (and singing, too) very
creditably under Mr. Orrell, amidships. But the
poop was the favourite place, and the excitement
centred in the constant procession of boats that
came gybing close under tho stern, with narrow
escapes from collision, as half a dozen sometimes
swept by together at full speed. There was an
unusual number of capsizes Mr. T. A. Dibbs's
new yacht Ena steamed round and round, slow
and stately, part of the afternoon, but with only
about nine people aboard. The “ Port Jackson’s’’
cargo was chiefly ladies. Unmistakably charming,
though not rich, was a toilet in which the wearer
had “dressed up to” her own individuality with
great taste. It was a study in "browns.” Tne
entire dress was dark coffee brown cash-
mere, neatly fitting, with one flounce of
ottoman silk round the skirt, gloves of light brown,
and princesse bonnet of the same coloured plush
set close on a neat head of glossy golden-brown
hair, while tho eyes under an entrancing little veil
were as brown as an oakleaf in autumn. Two grey
homespuns were alike neat, so was another of fools-
cap blue. At the nock of an airy green muslin, a
staring sunflower kept nodding its huge head.
Why do ladies wear such wondrous things ? Well,
there is one obvious advantage: if the young lady
shoiild “lose her head,” she’d have another one
left, about the same size and probably just as light.
Two good corded rodingote toilets were worn by
very fair sisters, black and warm slate respectively,
with lace necklingerio aud Henri Deux to match.
Another good costume was a black satin broebe
with basque edging of white lace under black,
hem of skirt the same and white pompons, hat
en suite. A beautifully fitted fawn llama buttoned
to one side, and trimmed with laoe to match, made
a naturally alluring girl even more so. A number i f
white linens and lawns, flounced or not, were also
provocative of different amounts of admiration.
• •
Since it started, the Sydney Owl Club has
been regularly growing, and Tattersall's ballroom
has been found too small for its meetings. Last
Wednesday’s Hyginx proved that the Protestant
Hall is barely large enough. There are 300 mem-
bers: and, as each member is supposed to be
interested in at least one lady, if not more, the
wearers of the silver badges alone neariy filled
tho hall, without leaving room for “crows,” as
male visitors are called. A Concert of two hours
came first, opening with an overture by Keed-
warbler. A lengthy member, appropriately called
Crane, recited the “ Song of the Street.” Mom?.
Michel’s zither was not loud enough. Mrs. Itiley,
always a favourite, sang “Heaven and Earth ’;
Brigadier recited “Hans Brietmann's Party”;
Bullfinch sang “Sweethearts”; Humming Bird
played from “Faust”; Mr. A. Williamson stng
the “Banks of Allan Water” sympathetically ;
and Mrs. Caddy's ballad, “The Old Barge,” was
also very sweet. A duet by Miss Roberts and
Herr Francik earned applause for her and
Herr, too. Shrike, Sheldrake, and Songster
also contributed, and Mr. T. Rainford sang
“Figaro” in line style. Sandpiper introduced a
new song, from Burnand's “Blue Beard” opera,
called “The Mashers,” in which that esteemed
class of persons was cruelly ridiculed. We think
that expensively got-up young men, who are very
amusing, and perfectly harmless, ought not to be
ridiculed. Readers, let us be careful of the
masher, and not annoy him. He might turn round
suddenly, and then his collar would cut his little
head off. Miss Creo Stanley s recitation was
“ The Manirc,” given with such vehement realism
that she was recalled. Mr. Charles Huenerbein did
most of the accompanying, of course well. Chaus
were soon stacked, refreshment circulated, and
dancing began. The most dashing music (though
it was mostly good) was that of Mr. L. De Groen,
whose digitation included his own composition,
the Owl Polka—a timely, tinkling little conceit.
Grand dresses are not expected at a hyginx; but
there wore there what, to ordinary, level-headed
observers, are better—some nice specimens of
neat simplicity. To the untutored male mind,
a grand dress is generally suggestive of some fabu-
lous sum paid to some dreadful dress-making
woman; while those simple, shapely little efforts,
done up with tucks and puffs and things (and this
is another little puff, you notice), make him think
of a sewing machine in the parlour, a natty girl
building the pretty thing herself, and ’ina packing
Henry and Thomas out of the room while Angelina
“tries it on.” Well, a cherubic little form was
seductive in one of those simple whites, with a
neck-streamer—and the maiden's surname is
almost historical in Elizabeth-street. The same
street was responsible for two auburn sisters, also
as neatly garbed—one m black satin and cardinal
bows, the other in cardinal satin over cream veil-
ing; both dresses sleeveless, and very sensibly so.
A pretty Pvrmont girl was also in cardinal and
cream. A handsome married lady wore a moire
antique of subdued green, that was as handsome
as her dresses usually are; and two nieces were
very stylish in black. Another all-in-black beauty,
with a rather speedy style, was admired. A pink
zephyr, with dark-brown pompons, was tasteful.
One clever dancer was in ruby, and gold beading ;
and another in heliotrope and white. Two unique
toilets were worn by Jewish brunettes, cream
Madras muslin, very amplitudinous, and made in
the new style of gathered flounces to the waist,
with old gold Swiss belts. And then the straw-
tinted satin, with features of such delicate chisel-
ling as are seldom seen out of marble, was an East
Melbourne Jady, who bore one of the oldest
names on record ; and who also bore —well—
We scarce dare say, she bore the palm,
This Southern beauty;
And yet we roust—now,girls, be calm—
Perform our duty.
It hurts us, just beneath our breath
To ever hint it,
And any man should suffer death
Who dares to print it.
But, Sydney matrons, dark or fair,
And maidens queenly,
Just listen now—and try to bear
The blow serenely ;
It’s no use going round about,
Our heart we harden —
The belle came from, it must come out,
The Cabbage Garden!
• •
We hear from Brisbane that Lady Mus-
grove dressos extremely well. At the Sports, she
wore a beautiful toilette of chocolate and straw
colour; but she carries such a funny little parasol,
just like those our grannies used to be so tond of
—so small and old-fashioned looking. Another
nice dress there was a pale mauve surah, adorned
with cardinal ribbons; princesse bonnet of same
colour. The bazaar which was held in the Albert
Hall in aid of All Hallows new school was a groat
success. The music was one of the attractions, as
there are a great many clever pianistes amongst
the Brisbane girls.
• • ■
Mr. and Mrs. Wilkinson, of Witalaba, Yass,
gave a delightful fancy dress children’s ball on
the 10th instant. Supper was served al fresco,
which was a great treat in the prevailing warm
weather, and the smaller juveniles went home
about 1 o'clock, the larger remaining later. Heve-
ral sailors, one with a veritable pigtail, and soldiers
were present, three Highland lassies, two Nor-
mandy peasants, three Christmases, a pretty
GitaDa, and a dear little Page from “Jeir.” A
Yachting Girl looked nice and airy, a French
Waitress saucy (and if the Yass youths have taste
she won’t “ wait ” long), an Italian Girl and a
Girola lovely. America was worthy of her land,
while a Lady of the Period's eyes were charming
enough for all periods. The most elective male
costume was that of an Elizabethan Courtier; the
quaintest female dresses were worn by two Old
Euglish Ladies of the 17th and 18th centuries.
About 60 guests were present, and the whole party
was an exceedingly pleasant one.
* * *
On the 9th inst., at the pretty parish
church of Ville Marie, Hunter’s Hill, the nuptial
knot w«s tied between Mr. William Duff, of Port-
land (Vic ), and Miss Bessie, third daughter of Mr.
Thomas Jenkins, of Riverview, Lane Cove. The
bride looked charming in white silk and edelweiss
lace, and was attended by three maids, her sisters
Misses Mary and Annie In white, and her cousin
in pi"k. The s.s. Nellie then took about a hundred
guests to Chowder Bay, where breakfast was laid.
Mr. Alderman Beare was chairman, and Mr. O.
Gibson gave the chief toast. An afternoon’s
dancing followed.
• •
Next week, the Masons (N.S.W. Constitu-
tion) are to have gala times to commemorate the
opening of their splendid new hall in Castloreagh-
street. It is the largest Masons’ Hall in Australia,
with a ball and concert room 90 by 50 feet, with
eight large doors opening outwards, and lots of
subsidiary rooms for retiring, refreshments, &o.
On Monday, the building will be consecratod by
due ceremony; on Wednesday, the Grand Master
banquets the Melbourne visiting “ team ” ; on
Thursday, there will be a ball; on Friday, a public
Masonic banquet; and on Saturday, a harbour
picnic. They will be all grand, as befits the high
occasion.
• • •
Last week, Captain E. F. Sandeman. son
of Captain Sandeman, of the 42nd Highlanders,
English Army, was married to Miss Georgina,
eldest daughter of Mr. It. J. Jeffrey, of Toorak
(Vic.) It was a very aristocratic affair. The bride,
given away by her father, wore a splendid white
satin with only two fine lace flounces; and the six
bridesmaids (Misses Jeffrey, Fairbairn, Wilkie,
Morphy, and Simpson) all wore India mull muslin
with waterfall bacas, and muslin caps. Lords
Rosebery and Novill were among tne guests.
Lady Clarke wore cream satin combined with pale
blue check, and bonnet with pale blue feathers;
Mrs. MalleBon’s toilet was pale lavender kilted
underskirt and lace, and a polonaise of black satin
and white lacc; Mrs. Donald Wallace wore tartan
satin and Langtry bonnet, and looked lovely
enough to justify the flattering title bestowed on
her over the border of a second Jersey Lily. The
steps, porch, and aisle of the Scot’s Church were
carpeted, and full choral service was performed.
The bridegroom is a relative of the Sanderaan
family in Sydney, and, as romance goes, Cupid's
first shafts went home when, as a ministering
angel on his couch of sickness on the rolling waves,
he met the fair and wealthy girl who is now his
bride. The groomsmen were Messrs. Blackwood,
Russell, and Sandeman, all well known, and Mr.
Wolseley, of Thule, who settled the “box-seat
difficulty ” in Riverina, and is brother of a General.
On Saturday last, a pleasant gathering
took place at Ferncourt, North Willoughby, the
residence of Mr. E. T. Newell, when Miss Con-
stance Graham Walsh, the youngest daughter of
the late Captain J. S. Walsh, Government Pilot at
South Head, was wedded to Mr. Arthur Malcolm-
Moore, by the Rev. it. M’Kinnon. The bride came
forth in a gauzy, feathery robe of puro white,
without colour or jewellery, and hair taken up
skywards The “ single ” bridesmaid bore herself
with becoming dignitv, and after the Wedding
March, the company adjourned for breakfast, and
the toast of bride and bridegroom was given by
Mr. M‘K.innon, who, as he had neverseen tne bride
till that day, contented himself by observing that
her beauty burst on his astonished view like a
large happy sunflower. It was a critical strait,
and he had to say something. After a little danc-
ing, the bride re-appeared in her travelling dress
—light grey, and a hat, the “only Henri,” of
course, and the new pair started for Katoomba:
rice, apparently, being an article of no value
among her friends, dome pretty drosses wore
seen. M r< >. F. B. Treatt (sister of the bride; wore a
nice navy blue cashmerette; another sister, Mrs.
Newo 1, pretty cream; and a third, black saiin.
The mother of the groom wore light grey: and
Mrs. Fowler, her daughter, black silk and satin, &c.
• * •
Although the Reid on which they leant
did not give the support of his presence, Mr. In-
spector Johnson, and Mesdames Smith and O’Byrne
(both stars from the Fort-street firmament' suc-
cessfully opened a beautiful new school at Dar-
linghurst on Monday evening. The Headmaster
is Mr. S. J. Hardy. The school is one of the
finest in the country, cost some £15,000, and a large
number of ladies and gentlemen gathered there,
besides 30u0 children, who were granted a holiday
to get over their grief at the Minister's absence.
• • •
But it is in the University Hall, on Satur-
day, the 19th, that the—wo were almost writing
“ boss,” a word these cultivated people would not
understand-really fashionable event of the season
takes place. It is to be a concert, with sections of
professionals and battalions of amateurs, iv retscD-
mannistowi ve the baton; and Turner-Montague,
the Metropolitan Liedertafel, and a crowd of
fashionables have promised to follow whorever he
leads. There is to be a full orchestra, and every
selection is a bonne bouche. Beethoven has been
“ requisitioned ” for the first part, while the second
portion is miscellaneous. A lady amateur is dewn
for the C minor concerto. The Pastoral Symphony,
and a quartette from “ Fidelio,” should be heard
to advantage. And yet wo have our misgivings.
If ever there was a writer whose wo ks charm the
coynogcenti, and bewilder the unmusical, it is
Beethoven—always, of course, barring Wagner.
How often, at a classical ooncert, while the trip-
lets of the “Moonlight” were falling on the ear
like the ripple of distant waters, have we seen
how the honest tradesmen and their portly wives,
occupying the front seats, kept up an accompani-
ment of nods, just waking up to clap, and cry
“ Ancore.”
** * *
A garden party was held at Saddleback,
to open tlm year. Chinese lanterns illuminated
tbo boautiful lawn, good music, plenty of dancing,
and good and abundant refreshments were part of
the pleasures; the remainder consisted of delight-
ful Sydney and country maidens, who di.l their
utmost to please everyone. This statement, we
wish it distinctly understood, has no bearing on
the fact that it’s Lean year— Working Men’s
Club to be started in Maitland A bazaar was
held in the Temperance Hall, Kiama, in aid of the
Church of England School Fund. Bountiful supply
of country lassies. The charming daughter ot the
major storekeeper drew the house fuller than
ever. Great protit derived.. A grand send-off
banquet was given to the Hon. J. B. Patterson, at
Castiemaine, when Messrs. Berry. Service, and
numerous other members of the Victorian Par-
liament were present. Speeches more than usua ly
interesting and humorous Sueini, of opera
fame, killed by a London cab Mr. John Rad-
oliffe, onoofthe cleverest flute-players extant, is in
Melbourne, where Dr. Rudall, the crack amateur
flautist, gave a dinner in his honour ..Some attempt
has been made by the Faculty in Melbourne to sup-
press Mrs. Dr. Potts, for curing people. The
doctors can’t understand people being cured
The marriage of the Hon. Ivo Bligh to Miss
Morphy is announced for the 17th FebruHry, at
Sir W. J. Clarke’s Rupertswood Mansion On the
9th, Mr. Smith, M.P., Mayor of Melbourne, enter-
tained Lord Rosebery, the Governor, Sir W.
Clarke, Sir P. Jennings, and many others, at a
large banquet in their Town Hall. ..On Monday,
Mr. Alderman Playfair’s friends pave him a com-
plimentary garden party at the Sir Joseph Banks,
and a number of ladies graced the occasion. The
guests included M.’s P., aldermen, merchants,
municipal officials, and others; and at dinner the
Mayor tilled the chair. Mr. M’Elhone proposed
the guest’s health, and several oth -r toasts were
given. Dancing was carried on, but the floor was
only sparsely occupied. The party went out at 3
and came home at 11... Giorza was in Milan lately.
—ln the Parramatta Exhibition is the Lord's
Prayer writton in twelve different languages, in
Pitman's shorthand. It is done by a schoolboy in
Fremantle (W.A.), and the phonography is very
accurate Sir James Prendergast, Chief Justice
of N.Z., arrived here on Monday ..The idea of
having refreshments free for ladies in the cap-
tain's cabin at Snail's Bay Regatta, was quite ap-
preciated, and showed a delicate thoughtfulness
on the part of both Captain Crombie and Mr.
W. R. Ainsworth.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Beethoven Concert (Sydney University,
3 p.m.) Jan. 19.
Masonic Ball (Castloreagh-st.) Jan. 24.


W. H. ARIELL & CO.’S
AGENCIES.
& ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
es™ 1 ' 1 4? kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
a ? d T family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food. Self-raising Flour,
ra B i?» nn,n d Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
_ casks, anf ] bottles.
EX SSf I § R MlLLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
rl Barley * and Silk-dressed Flour, in
Dll lpotionery lißOWS & Co ' S ’ prize assorted Con-
A ' Co -’® Baking Powders, in
V nrt d Jiimo in n ; K- Whittington and Co.’s prime
york Hams, Currants, Figs, Paper Bags. and
General Provisions ; Victoria Lion Preserving
Company s superior assorted Jams : Scandina-
vian Condensed Milk-Gold Medal Brand,
343 and 345 KENT-STREET,
Near King-street, Sydney.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. Od.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters of a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free m
secure cover, for Is. tfd., money order or NSW
stamps. To be had oniy from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 0.P.0., Sydney.
I NT^f°N r AL JUVENILE INDUSTRIAL
EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883.
THE OPENING CEREMONY
will be performed by
HIS EXCELLENCY LORI) AUGUSTUS LOFTUS
at 2.30 p.m., on
WEDNESDAY, 19th DECEMBER.
The OPENING CANTATA will be sun* by a
Chorus of no Public School Cnildren, assisted by
?nWr! r i! H.’Sf’ Mr * J - Mo ° n * Mr! *
Words of the Cantata by J. Barlow, Esq.
Music by Herr Hugo Alpin. 4
Conductor—Herr Hugo Alpin.
Special trains to Park Platform on Exhibition
Ground. Excursion rates from all stations Sdb-
cial concession to children. ° pe
Arrangements have been made with Mr. C E
Jcannerett to run additional steamers, as wcli as
Exhibition. 4^16 Paik gUte ' flve walk to
The budding; will, by the kind permission of Mr.
electri^Bght. 611 ’ b ° Jlferhted ln the evening with
thievening, Is. thG openillJf ceremony, 2s. 6d.; in
CHAS. E. ROWLING,
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
2nT©xxt -
LONDON AND PARIS IN SYDNEY
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
~W- "W. C^TIEIK’S
IMPORTER & GENERAL DRAPER,
193 and 195 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
7wj ■ ■
H!ID GLOVE p a *c ®T , TV/rp , M p n
th °^ KW*Glove Department
Every pair of Kid Gloves sold warrantedn ne.*tw nV W mu„ T, * “nd lHa Pitt-sthekt.
Ollfc in t.hp Drofoeoionnl —a. : j . G fl P6l IOCt lit. TllO I liriS IClfl nvfl 1 )onarf iririnf in
Every pair of Kid Gloves sofdwarranted Tho p““ “’i/wn" llw i'i-i't-stheet.
out in the professional continental manner and stVle' SJ» a ln/’ d ( ’ love department is fitted
adva-Mse to have their Kid Glove,
£}<* £! oves fitted to perfection
K d t r° min utes at the counter
J>m £, ves warranted a perfect fit
Kid Gloves from 2 to 20 buttons
lvid Gloves of all descriptions in the latest style
Kid Gloves, Mousquetaire stylo
KidGioves, Gauntlet style
Kid Gloves, Sarah Bernhardt style
Silk and Lisle Thread Gloves, Laco Mitts
QEi^ABD(^ I Kid < Giove o Department C maiia^r^ a ifaHish ftnUh*lt!S ?,on ft 8 ' M I" A UI,SIIT< > «■
German spoken anV Paris Kid Glove £e parent!" 111 ’ FJerm8h - IJutch ’ ilud
w. w.
CATER, Importer and General Draper,
103 and 105 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
OK THE
Briclrlieia. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
These Patfcerns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
CURTAINS, 100 PRICES
iStaS?' If you t Ske?he'lsStem° which tfiSlSsmted ta I^alhva ' T Station, Tree of Charge, a Sot of la jo
«■' >*»■• »“»• mss?*^ftssssfc'SKsas we ” m ,o ™" d eiactir
ft.
s
<6
w
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish linen Table Damasks, to match the Certains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union, gh Examine carefully L Covers
“LACE CURTAINS.” s g or our
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS ,
LACE CUBTAINS
668 BRICKFIELD HILL.
LACE CURTAINS
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Political
Points
Somebody suggests that a society should
be started for the purpose of putting- down heavy
eating and drinking at public banquets. The idea
is a good one politically.
The Tamworth Observer reports that the
Government are granting free passes to parents
(Narrabri residents) desirous of taking their chil-
dren out of town during the hot weather. Why
Should Narrabri people bv picked out for the
privilege ? What is s ■ uce for an up-country town
should certainly be sauce for an overcrowded
metropolis.
A Jingo cablegram from the Herald
“ The decision of Mr. Gladstone to-continue to de-
fend Egypt has reassured public opinion, especially
as it is believed that the decision is the prelud<-
to an entire British civil administration.” A
oerrect interpretation of British public opinion
would be this:—The whole English Radical party
maintain that the recurrence of serious difficulties
in Egypt, which will yet cost the country both
men and money, prove that British interference
was unwise, and that Arabi ought have been
allowed to cut the Khedive’s ears off.
Ad/e Douglas, Mayor of Launceston, and
rt'^^ or Pingal, means to move a resolution in
tb® Tasmanian Assembly to the following effect:
- That the Van Diemen’s Land Co.’s 350 000 acres
of land, or thereabouts, assessed at the annual
value of £3300, and paying a duty of £B2 10s. an-
nually, having been hut little improved durmg
the last thirty years, this House is of opinion that
the colony would be materially beneiltted if this
land could be resumed by the Crown.” It would n t
be a bad thing if the unimproved land of the Aus-
tralian Agricultural and Peel River Companies
(N.8.W.) were also resumed. As now worked, those
properties are a curse on the North.
When Mr. Speight left the.traffic manage-
ment of the Great Midland Railways, the gentle-
men who drew fat dividends from his skilful
clearing of the track, presented him with £3OOO.
Mr. A.. G. Taylor has just olacedinthe right poke
or his little Is o. 7 pants £3OO from his admirers of
Mudgee. Now, as'A.G. has got this for obstructive
abilities, it follows that it is tea tipics better to
No, let us recast this profound calculation. If
Speight can only get £lOOO for forwarding business,
while A.G. c m get £3OO for retarding it, what sort
of a testimonial mav he expect once he takes it
into his head to do the other thing ? Figures fail
us, as the emaciated leader of fashions said when
she started improvers.
Last week was one of uninterrupted festi-
vity for Melbournians, such of the population as
were not soaping Lord Rosebery, being employed
in buttering Mr. J. B. Patterson. Of the illus-
trious pair the patriotic” Patterson seems to
have been the larger lion, for although the noble
ifiarl s speech at the Mayor’s feed was pronounced
to be a model for Victorian orators” —and we
can easily believe that it was-still the member
for Castlemaine has been banqueted, “ addressed ”
and presentationed,” in a perfectly appalling
manner. As all this excitement was displayed
over the stereotyped ‘‘trip to Europe,” we can
™,,-L m l d y conjecture what will happen when the
puissant politician returns to what he calls "the
land or his adoption.” His toadies, doubtless, will
leave no stone unturned to procure an earthquake
tor that auspicious oeoassion.
There are few “working men” in the
House of Commons. Henry Broadhurst, member
?! 188 on °f a stonemason, and was appren-
ticed to his lather s trade. He was a journeyman
stonemason up to 1872, and his attitudes now tell
plainly of tho actuai hard “graft” he performed
m anhood His shoulders are round
with lifting, and his hands curved, and callous of
palm. He has a weakness for boxing and bull-
ai^ 8 ’ acq , u . l . r ? d in .boyhood. As a speaker, his sound
sense and “straightness" are too well known to en-
£?,a„ 1 i. go n^ Ils \? I i? ers at sl *kht provincialisms in lan-
guage. His obstinate courage was shown when, as a
mason, he was one of the most uncompromising
leaders in a strike, which cost the craft £so,ooo, and
then faUed, owing i ° importation of German work-
«ltro^? adhu JI 8t thon urged standing out to the last
’ ai i d paid his journeyman's savings into
the common fund. Three months ago part of this
money was repaid to him.
The S. M. Herald's Melbourne corres-
pondent under date of Wednesday last, wired :
Sm Fioderick Haynes, commander of
n hrfivi 068 India, is now in Melbourne enjoying
a holiday. He has recently, in H.M.S. Miranda.
1 16 * 5 ™ 168 - Should he be officially
innff furm Bh any communication on tne sub-
annexation, he will very likely be found a
nuninnn d " ot th » e color ' lial view of the
question. And now for accuracy. The man’s
H . ala ® 8 - And he is not commander of the
nfflofoii lr J d sv once waB, As t 0 bis being
clm L a ! ted by D pwnmg-street to furnish any
£ on the subject of annexation,
w»p 0 8 bo P. t 88 muoh chance of it as Jumbo or
** be ing.asked. What the Victorian
' G r t P“ 3 . e e fc may do is another matter; we would
is n y v®/P lad Mr. Service that though Ned Haines
strnii-htr raa ® f * he .cold steel ” type, he is far too
sfnn rward « fellow to recommend a cool
meai in the way of unnecessary annexation.
<• n'i 8 Emile i le Lavaleye, in an essay on
the nrps« r nf ean T F rr ? r "i, “ If we examine closely
tne present social situation, we cannot feel anv
Nihilistic sentiments : civ ifised States
open or , B ecret, one with the other,
m Population by unlimited arma-
flowernf th« n i n,r f ?£ military eervice the
whpPo „ Q natlon 8 youth; crushing debts every-
ahoutVsrm\vvinm°K Vl i QC,a ’ ? nd communal, in all
mi 1,1 a revenue ot about
’ 0113,000 to £dj0;000,000, taken from the Deceasi-
ng8 ’,^ id B^ Vl ng t 0 a| i QW an over-increasing
nothing .° f peopl ?. to liv O on their income and do
nothing; everywhere enormous budgets, quite
crue thnnn^r Wlth V 1 ® advantages which ac-
soil P e °P le ; the cultivators of the
toes « U f ed T to , llv i e on bread and water, on pota-
coafze l 5? and V aad °, n . Pcliapra-engendering
trifle 6 ’,.5? i/L 1 **£ y i f.be working man's condition a
Portion to t^ ted ’ 11 is true ’ but not at all in pro-
“l° th ? increase in production ; in the
daiil mnto BG4,f 8G 4,fl U;£ y ry overflowing and becoming
and more wanton; parliamen-
wfth b ?iP i 3 £ atlo ?* which was to hare brought
great soehil V rif^ n ’ iaca P v able of carrying out any
monarch conBtit utional
dJgedTn l^ 6 a ? 1 u the high-flown talk in
"tategritv of thI Ul3h Statesmen regarding the
race” nnH^ f th x? empire,” the “ destiny of the
Posless s d eh e n unmeaning generalities that
of the WiisL fascination for returned colonists
gauo-ed ul B< iu’ °§ el, and Parkes school, may be
Ne'tf/p a h?nH be Mr Gladstone to visit
membered nd - nv ,T b ? legislature, it will be re-
wav and J i^ d t he Premier to call in their
a flyingtHn°f iupk. The whole thing, including
dona .Geplong and Woolloomooloo Bay,
just n iuHaP ne in less than five months, and it is
fbd time fn-°> ad r* th . at the “ Grand 01d Man " can
Copenhagen ffo® sonnets, philander about
1 isten to Ten’n 0 8le ?P 'vhile pretending to
Clara Vere do v«r«“° Utb i n * “ Mau d ” and “Lady
a v ere de Vere, or devote days to chopping
wood at home, and cannot spare a few months to
aoir SP^A 1 . 8 own kith and kin down our way. To
things are a little unsettled in Egypt,
French pretensions in Asia and in the
w a ? t 0 complications, that the atti-
a ,^°, mn ? edanB in India towards us is
£®J a }} tllat could be desired, that English Radical-
JfFL >8 pounding at the door of the Commons for
a?i^ 1^anc ? an< * clamouring round the Lords like
w 2 lves round si sledge, and that the Orange
are only kept from each others’
by a thin red line of fixed bayonets—is
to °®cr a string of flimsy excuses for the
insult. If Mr. Gladstone wished to visit
JNew Zealand, there is no doubt that representa-
to the proper foreign authorities
would induce them to keep quiet till his return.
jno; ne has chosen to throw an unmerited slight
on the loyalty of Australasia—a slight that will go
u 8 to remain quiescent should the
cations Yes^ 0 in Berlous compli-
• • •
At a nomination in a municipality out
west, the other day, a number of letters were re-
ceived from parties, withdrawing from candida-
ture, and declining to ‘‘to stand,” not one of
whom it turned out was nominated at all!
Minister Abbott recommends provisio i to
be made on the Estimates for the widows
and relatives of those who were with
Lamont Young when his party vamosed from
That’s Bully-tin! Griffith, Queens-
land Premier, contemplates the appointment of a
Bananaland Minister to the Court of James, d la
Canadian High Commissionership. Billy Hemmant.
ex-draper, has first show.
* * *
Arabi’s residence at Colombo is regarded
by the Mahometans of Eastern Asia as a half-
way house to Mecca.... Lora Randolph Churohill,
the leader of tho “ fourth party ” (consisting of
four), and the self-constituted guiding star of the
English Conservatives, has made up his mind to
overlook his elder brother’s peccadilloes, now that
liis elder brother has become Luke of Marl-
borough. Ihe politician, it is said, has converted
the lively Duke from his iniquitous ways, and
peace and contentment reign between them once
again.... Derby agrees to modify the Transvaal
frontier at the request of the Boer delegates.
Rights of native chiefs who remained loyal to
England during the war to be secured... Jules
Ferry proposes that ths final decision as reg»rds
trench money bills shall rest with the Chamber of
Deputies.... John the Second, of Abyssinia, is
§ s°i; the Mash(ow)ah —the island so called in
the Red Sea.. • - When the Queen left Balmoral for
Windsor, the officials upon whom the responsibility
of her safety rests were so nervous of danger that
the time of departure was kept a secret, even from
the railway authorities, till almost the last hour...
Ihus an English journal on our presence in
Egypt:— Ihe blood of the wretched fellahs, who
were brought in chains to the depots and then
hurried otf to the Soudan, of the English officers
who commanded them, and of the many brave
Soudanese who have died the noblest of aLI deaths,
fighting for their country’s independence, is on
us. ... Germany, Austria, and Italy, in Holy Alli-
ance, will not permit the overthrow of Alfonso of
Spain. Ahem!
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Low price of tin at Tingha affecting local
biz.” awfully. Alack! not ore-fully Tuppal,
one of the wealthiest Riverina stations, had nearly
10,000 acres of grass destroyed by fire One (in
directly) for Woods’s braae: The train on the
Mount Barker (S.A.) line, which on Christmas Day
so nearly came to unmitigated grief, was fitted
with a Westinghouse automatic brake that failed
to act.... Fire at the Apollo Candle Works, Mel-
bourne, last week. For onco the candles were
more than an apollo-gy for a light....** And what
did the defendant say?” asked the Glen lunes
Bench of a witness whom the said defendant had
summoned to explain the circumstances that led
up to a local publican having his nose indeflnitely
enlarged. “ Well, your Warship, the defindint said
the word b—y in a nice, quiet, aisy. dacent manner,
not a bit rough, your Warship.” His “ Warship ”
smiled, which was more than the “ defindint ” did
when he heard that a month would about meet
his oaso
• • *
At least 50 per cent, of the foreign mis-
sionaries on the books of the London Missionary
Society, says Dagonet, are agents for the sale of
patent medicines, and derive large incomes from
the business. “ The heathen in his blindness ” has
immense faith in pills The picture of the
Duke of Connaught and the Guards in Egypt will
be one of the features of the ’B4 Royal Academy
(London) show. At least, so we glean from the
World. Tel-el-Kebir will, of course, be depicted
in the extreme distance—Marquis de Rays found
guilty of fraudulent representation and sentenced
to four years’ imprisonment, and to pay a fine of
3000 francs. H<s associates each lined a similar
sum, but sentenced to shorter terms of imprison-
ment—The Grand Old Man has declined an in-
vitation from the members of the New Zealand
Legislature to visit Maoriland... Miklouho Maclav
urges the British Government to maintain the
rights of the Papuans against the "labour ” ex-
Piai k V. , 6 Java , eruption was predicted in
1881 by M. Delauney, in a memoir presented to the
Academic des Sciences at Paris. Ho also predicted
that a still more terrible convulsion will occur at
the same spot in 1888—France in luck : both the
Malagasy and the Auamite have given in their
siibm ssion to the tricolour.. . Victor Emmanuel’s
remains deposited in the Pantheon, Rome.
Chinese Gordon, at request of Leopold of Belgium,
®<»nley o" the Congo... England advises
t( i a t>kndon Upper Egypt as far as the
also, will not oppose a Turkish
expedition to the Soudan if undertaken at the
expense of the Porte Sir W. Gull, Hart., the
yueen s 1 hysician, recommends the exhausted
from overwork to eat raisins instead of taking
'Y m e,• • -The expected stoppage of shipbuilding on
over-production, will throw
out mlOskilledartizans. ..Twenty-seven nuns and
pupils burned to death on the 6thinstant in Belle-
ville Convent (Illinois) Edison says—and if he
doesnt know who does?-that ‘‘it requires as
much ingenuity to make money out of an inven-
tion as to make the invention.” We need no
ghost to troop out of its grave to tell us that lot..
.... Panama rail way ceded to Lesseps... .The Czar's
late yacht, built at fabulous cost, electro-lighted
g?ld and sdver fitted, largest in the world—the
Livadia—is a coal hulk at Sebastopol 1 .. Since the
abolition of flogging in the Army and Navy, the
courts-martial which deal with naval and military
prisoners usually give the extreme sentences al-
lowed by law. During 1883, ten sentences of five
years each were awarded to seamen for trifling
acts of insubordination—crimes that in civil life
would be met jy a fine of 55., or a day’s imprison-
memorial largely signed by members of
both Houses is to be presented to Mr. Gladstone
on the subject. ...Thomas Leach a starving Eng-
lish labourer, having feloniously taken a turnip
from a farmer’s field was lined 16s. 6d. He couldn’t
find it anymore than he could the national debt,
and so had to go up for 14 days. Bri—tons never,
never, &c . The Edinburgh Faculty of Advocates
all bands ” as part of the court dress
of the Scotoh Bar. Sheriff Thoms said: —“ There
was danger of bands being kept too long from the
washerwoman, and still more of their being used,
as he bell ved they were in England, to conceal
from public criticism the defective state of the
for ele™^u i rtsf’ ,would retaiu the existing security


h*
E PROSSER Sr C9 fcp WHOLESALE DRUCCISTS
13
Messrs. E. Prosser and Co., Wholesale
Druggists, &c.
The well-known firm of wholesale importing and
manufacturing druggists, Messrs. E. Prosser and
Co., who have been carrying on business tor some
years on the premises, Pitt-street, between the
Post Office and King-street, have taken those ex-
tensive warehouses, 19 and 21 O’Connell-stroet,
almost adjoining the Herald office. These pre-
mises are of recent erection, being buut of the
best Pyrmont stone, and are among the hand-
somest which characterise new Sydney. They are
of the most substantial character, and comprise
two warehouses of five expansive floors, being
particularly suited to the requirements of Messrs.
Prosser and Co.’s business. Another feature is
that the situation is in the heart of the city, being
within a few feet of Pitt-street, yet out of the
way of the crush of vehicular traffic in that
thoroughfare—a great desideratum for a firm, the
receipt and removal of whose goods is going along
throughout the day. Messrs. Prosser and Co. can
now lay claim with their new spacious warehouses
to almost the first position among the importing
and manufacturing druggists of these colonies ;
indeed, it has been remarked by English visitors
that really there are no houses of more notable
extent in London. The two warehouses are con-
nected by several arches—one on each floor—
which are rendered fire-proof by means of stout
sliding flre-proof iron doors. When these arches
are open, a capital opportunity is afforded
the spectator of observing the wide ex-
tent of the warehouse interior. And now
a brief description of that interior. The cellars,
which comprise Ian area of HO ft. by 60 ft-, are on
the solid rock, yet are asphalted with the best
material. They afford storage rooni for one of
the largest bulk stocks to be found in any one
house in the colonies, and from here every depart-
ment in the warehouse receives its supplies, a
powerful lift, operated on by gas engine, being
devoted to the purposes of removal. There are
improved conveniences here for the workmen;
and at the western end are departments receiving
large supplies of water, for bottle-washing, clean-
ing, &c., and for the storage of leeches. On the
ground floor are facilities for the receipt and re-
moval of goods from the drays and trollies, and
this, likewise, is devoted to the storage of whole
packages, the stock of chemists and druggists
goods generally representing some thousands of
pounds. The great feature of the warehouse is
the show room on the first floor, which is reached
bv a wide, handsome, cedar stairway. This room
shows by far and away the best display of any
similar warehouse in Australia, having a sreat
range, splendid light, and being furnished with
numerous show cases, displaying druggists sun-
dries, surgical instruments, patent medicines,
samples of the new hand-painted china toilet ware,
and perfumery of every description. At the eastern
end is a spacious, well-lighted counting-
house furnished in capital style, with tele-
phonic exchange, &c. The offices of the pro-
prietary are situated at the eastern end of
the adjoining warehouse, and are similarly
furnished. The whole of the northern warehouse
is taken up with the largest display of druggists
goods, arranged after the retail style, the effect
being as striking as it is unique and labour-
saving. The shelving extends the whole length of
the building, and is as lofty as the ceiling. Here,
the great principle of the firm’s business is in full
operation—business being done with only those in
the trade, people who have to sell again. At the
end of this department is one for the open stock
of spirits, &o., in bulk, and away to the right are
cloak rooms, lavatories, &c. On the second floor
are bottling and labelling rooms, arrangements
being made for the employment of dexterous
juvenile labour. There is a great display here
also of the open stock of glass for druggists, &c.
On the third floor is a spacious manufactory and
laboratory, fitted with the latest appliances, with
power by pulley from the gas engine for driving
She drug mills, &c The whole of this department
i-, floored with sheet-iron, and is brilliantly ligtited.
Th© northern warehouse is devoted to the storage
of lartre parcels of corks and other similar
material. The firm of Prosser and Co are
among the largest, importers of chemicals, drugs,
patent medicines, &c., in the colony; and the steps
thev are now taking in securing commodious
warehouses will enable them to occupy the front
rank in their lino of trade. At Prosser and Co. s
may be found one of the largest stocks to be found
in any house in the colonies in respect of patent
medicines, drugs, chemicals, dye goods, fancy
soaps, sponges, &c., and a large and special busi-
ness done is in surgical instruments, almost every
latest pattern or design being represeuted in the
show-cases. Brushware is another important item
in the firm’s business. The house has long been
known throughout this colony and Queensland
for the rare excellence of its photographic chemi-
cals. to which department the greatest attention
is given. The firm is likewise )the representative
house in Sydney as regards cordial makers machi-
nery, the makes of the latest and most approved
patterns beingr shown —several for the first time in
Sydney. Within the last few weeks, Messrs.
Prosser and Co. have received several large ship-
ments of new stock, which is now open for inspec-
tion at their O’Connell-street warehouses. Visitors
to Sydney per train, take tram to Hunter-street,
and thence to the warehouses in three minutes.
Thus the “ Meddler,” in the Sydney Mail,
on "back-block’ evils:-" They are only assaulted
bv indolence, licentious talk, gambling, the seduc-
tions of the shanty (if there chances to be one
near )_vices gross enough, perhaps; but not so
terrible as the secularist’s doubt or unbelief.
When Tennyson wrote his panegyric on Honest
doubt,” he little dreamt that a meddling Solon of
Hunter-street would dub it as more terrible than
—what? “Indolence, licentious talk, gambling,
the seductions of the shanty!’ Verily, these
Hunter street religionists are fearfully and won-
derfully constituted! Scarcely one good, great,
enlightened man has ever fought the battle of life
who was not to the very end imbued with more
or less “ honest doubt ” on those subtle mysteries
which the little-minded, ignorant, religious pedant
settles as airily and irreverently as he would the
total of his butcher’s or baker s bill. It is such
teachings as the "Meddler’s” that disgust true
intelligent men with so-called religion, and the
absurd pretensions of its creeds. In truth, we
want an association for the defence of Christianity
—not from freethought or secularism, but from
the assaults of the bigotry, sectarianism, and dog-
matic absurdities sown and fostered by pseudo*
disciples of Christ.
CHUCKLES.
Bobby Byrne gives us, in Queensland
Punch, an "illegant” notice of our Christinas
number. Hesays: “ Tho literury merit ot Ghostly
Gold’ is very high of Tint Bulletin type. ff This
is ‘'praise' from Sir Hubert Stanley, indeed. We
have received a copy of “ Chuckles, in the Christ-
mas number of Brisbane Punch. We coDsmer its
merit is “ very high" of the (hem!) Brisbane . umh
type. There is no satire in this—only a little good
humour; and this is (or was) the season to be good-
nurnoured. It is easier, just after Christmas, to be
humorous than satirical. This, we conceive, is
chiefly owing to goose. Humour is born of goose,
but not satire. Bcurding-house stulling, it is true,
possesses -as do Phillip-street baked potatoes-a
kind of grotesque humour of its own ; nut,
though that humour is grotesque, and even spec-
tral, there is little, itjany, satire about it. feature is
suggested by a semblance of something that is keen
ami sharp-pointed. There is no property of any-
thing, solar as we can learn, to encourage satire
about goose, or about stuffing, or about Phillip-
street baked potatoes. The young commercial
gentleman of poetical proclivities at Todgers s, it
is true, wrote a satirical ode "On the f reezing of
the Tank at the back of the House, ; which, it will
be remembered, he read, with considerable appro-
bation, to the Pecksnilf family during the awlul
pause that preceded the serving up of that memor-
i.ble banquet. But, then, we are not blessed
with that poetical gentleman's peculiar talents.
Wo had a poet once, who could write you little
satirical things on anything. Ho could be
especially satirical on his landlord when Saturday
atternoon carnO round. He was more than satiri-
cal at those times ; he was biting. But he is gone,
for the present; he has (and we do not say this
without regret) temporarily faded. We don t
mi»d telling you, in an item that must not be
bruited abroad, that we have let him out lor a
spell. We sent him on ono occasion where the
wattle gold bloomed-ho said he would be happy
there—but he arrived at th.- office three dajs
afterwards on a shutter. He then wished subse-
quently to sing about the waterfall s musical
cadence—and, so, alter some consideration, we
gave him another chance. This tune he duin t
come home at ail. We relented once more, how-
ever, and paid his fine ior him; and when ho ex-
pressed a desire to sing about the rhythmic ripples
of the ocean, we pensively acquiesced. This en-
tailed inexpensive board at Manly, hut it has ever
been the principle of this journal to be reckless in
point of legitimate expenditure, and we did not,
on this occasion, shrink from our established
rule. Every oiler that respect and admiration
could suggest of Ic diner Pcirisien, when ho was
past eating anything but ruin, was not wanting;
and so far as the tap went, prior to freighting the
steamer with him, the supply of water which was
furnished to our bard was practically unlimited.
He expressed bis gratitude for tho shower as well
as he could, but, being somewhat paralysed by the
novelty of water in any form, his eloquence from
a poetic point of view, anyhow, was somewhat
hampered by limits. He sang about the rhythmio
ripples of the broad Pacific for three whole days,
and possibly three nights, too; then we heard of
him. This was through the medium of his land-
lord. That inestimable citizen called round and
asked us if we knew any magistrate who could,
upon the shortest notice, call out the military.
He stated thut on the second day of our bard s re-
sidence at his house, he had read the Kiot Act in
his deepest tones, but the result even of that im-
pressive composition did not militate against our
poetic representative either making a tunnel ot
the parlour clock or continuing for four conse-
cutive hours to bark at the boarders. When sub-
sequently put, by the combined force of tlie whole
establishment, into tho shower-bath, he scandalised
tho people by composing impromptus upon the
origin of the Bath in Home (as he held it) and the
River Jordan, where, it will be remembered, King
Naaman bathed and w as cured (as the legend goes)
of leprosy. Mark Twain seems to say, by the way,
that Naaman never had anything but prickly beat,
and that one day when he (Mark Twain) was
thirsty he drank one half of the River Jordan
dry, and took the balance away in a quart-pot.
This is digression, anyhow; but it leads us, in a
way, back to our poet. Well, we have let him out
to a man who keeps a farm; he draws water, and
wo draw his wages. It was byth
that we were enabled to afford to have all those
pretty vasos and balustrades placed on top of our
new palace. By last accounts of him, we heard
he was browsing satisfactorily on turnips, and had
written, in melting strains, the _ CadeDza of the
Carrot.” It seems now that he is fixed; and w°
hope ho is; but wo are., nevertheless, doubtful.
Why, it is not long ago since we shw him up, ror
the safety of the community (or, rat het there s
a delicate touch here—the sanity
nity) in the deepest dungeon within the Reception
House, and ordered him to be loaded with as many
fetters as Dam pier wears in *.,l}*.
night we went to the Royal, in the dress circle,
and he was there—right in tho
row, loading the laugnter, and evidently oblivious
of his whereabouts. But, as ho appeared happj»
we left him there. We heard, next day, thathe
didn't sit out the performance. Asergeantcame
there, and claimed his acquaintanceship, Gur poet
couldn't see it, and, to our contusion, we were
subsequently informed that be was not persuaded
to come out until ho bad performed a P orf ®?s
Catherine wheel with two shoes. when
pockethaudkerchief, and a very hard hat. Mhe
he came round to the olhce next day he was like a
Scotch plaid. You could see one eye, because it
stood out ahout two feet; though the other, for
all vou • ould behold of it, might have been—as
very likely it was - at. tho back of his head; so we
decided to rusticate our bard tor the present.
Well, after all this gentle little gossip, let us
reciprocate Uobbvs pßasant notice by saying
that his "Chuckles" ("great head in using
the title of the year before .last! which was
written by a feeble creature in this country)
is vc-rv nice, indeed. We may seem to speak
of it as though it were pudding; but we like
pudding. There is a story written by Mi. H car-
gill in “Chuckles,” that contains a passage which
possesses a good many points, each which has a
fair claim to be considered remarkable, Here is
an instance Hardly hud tho skipper done
speaking, and we emptied our pannicana, when we
turned a comploto somersault, so that everybody
had to stand on his head in order to keep ou his
feet!” There is also some poetry ot a choice
character, and of a rhythmic calibre which entitles
it to instant consideration. This is all we dare, ior
prudent reasons, to insert in the first forme. Wo
don’t want to crowd out Cockles Pills, or any
other dainty romance :
“ Keep all hurting
News of fiirting
From my Jude, Zenobia ;
Lest (while sport we)
He report we,
Keep it dark from Toby, ah 1
This extract will banish all doubts-if any ever
existed—as to the brilliancy of Bobby s Christmas
venture!
A New CAte in [?] syaney.
The wants of Sydney are at last in a fair
being attended to. The latest proof in this direc-
tion ia the opening of a cafo and restaurant by
Banmann, a talented French artist in the cuisine
line, the locality belli* those extensive premises,
107 Pitt-street„almost directly opposite the Union
Bank, and about four doors from Hunter-street.
The promires were formerly by Messrs.
Harris and Achman as a gallery, show-room, and
auction mart. Under the very capa.ble design of
Messrs Martin and Bussell, architects, of 19
Hunter-street, the edifice has undergone a magic
change The work, in fact, indicates a distinctly
new school of architecture, which may be hailed
with pleasure, for there is nothing like the place in
anv of the colonies. The work of alteration is not
vet completed, but the establishment has been
opened to meet pressing requests, and the business
has been extraordinarily successful. A full arcln-
tectural description must be left for another
occasion. It will now suffice to say that the
various dining halls or rooms are of great depth
and width, with unusual height of ceiling, securing
niagniAcent ventilation. Tho decorations of the
ceiling are of rich hand-painting, the work of
Signor Loienzeni. the effect produced being of
the highest artistic character. There will bo
special saloons for ladies and children, with dress-
ing-rooms, &c. attached. At tho roar of the
dining-rooms will be an expansive banqueting-
haij richly decorated, affording accommodation
to fully JOO people. The cuisine is under tbo per-
sonal supervision of Mr. Baumann himself, so that
in that respect also there will always be an attrac-
tion that is bound to be recognised by the Sydney
public in a right and liberal way
the Increasing Demand for Pyrmont
Stone.
It is only a few days ago since there was a dis-
cussion in the Press as to the relative durability of
stone and bricks, the discussion being opened by a
Sydney architect stating that Sydney sandstone
was very porous, and by no means weatherproof
or durable. As “ Sydney sandstone ” included, of
course, the best Pyrmont quarry productions, Mr.
Robert Saunders replied in a very smart letter, in
which he completely turned the tables on his an-
tagonist. The architect, in support of his state-
ments, referred to the University, the Unitarian
Church, St. James' Cathedral ; and the walls
of G eorge-street Markets, but though his
tacts as to the condition of the walls of those
buildings were correct, the instances quoted were
by no means fair ones. Mr. Saunders conceded
that the surface sandstone of the quarries, used
year* ago before the present deep bottoms were
opened or known, was porous and soft, but he
stakes £lOO for the public charities if the writer
could find a single drip stone in all the present
deep quarries. Resides, the stone in these build-
ings came from Cockle Bay and elsewhere, ana
not Pvrmont at all. Mr. Saunders likewise pointed
out that as far as tests were concerned, his ex-
hibits of the best Pyrmont hard block stone were
awarded first prize and medal at the Melbourne
and Amsterdam Exhibitions and this against
numerous other exhibits. The reply to this
“cornerer” from Mr. Saunders was that the
best Pyrmont freestone ” wasn't referred to
at all. Still, the writer continued to speak or
Sydney sandstone, mentioning, as a general
sample, tbo refuse used for pavement and gutter-
ing work in th« city. The Pyrmont champion,
however, fixed the writer to his first statements,
and then proved that what he had based all his
objections on was a surface stone, now used only
for Ailing—a stone no more to be compared to the
products of the deep quarries of Pyrmont than
the ordinary brick is to adamant. And it will be
admitted by the general public, who have ocular
proof in every stioet in Sydney, that it was absurd
to advocate brick in preference to stone. The
vitriAed brick, it is admitted, is of great imper-
viousness, but certainly it does not surpass tho
bard blocks of graoite-iike stone from Saunders s
Blackwattlo Bay quarries, Pyrmont—which stone
is going in thousands of tons, day by day, to re-
THIS IS HOW THE NORTH QUEENSLAND LAWYER-VINE GOT ITS NAME.
build and beautify the cities of Sydney and Mel-
bourne. What has been done in the latter city
may be seen in the splendid new warehouses of
Tanaye Bros, Melbourne, and in the new E. and A-
Chaitered Bank for Melbourne ; yet more will
be seen, 44.000 feet of hard yellow Pyrmont stone
havinsr been ordered from Mr. Saunders, lhe
letters of the writer referred to appear to indicate
an advocacy for some special description of brick.
However, since the discussion has taken place,
orders from Melbourne for near upon 60,W0 feet
of Pvrmont stone have been received by Mr.
Saunders, who iinds it of manifest advantage to
his nusiness to have the product of his quarries
ciiticised by people who may mean well, but don t
know.
Patent Portable Gas for Inland Towns.
Hotels, Stations, NC.
About eighteen months ago attention was drawn
in these columns to the Patent Portable Gas, the
practical adaptability of which lor use in hotels,
homes, inland towns, &c., was at once apparent.
The company did a very great business, the public
quickly recognising that the Patent Portable Gas
was cheap, safe, and more brilliant than even coal
eras. A large trade was done with all the inland
towns, and with suburban and country home-
steads, and suburban and country churches, halls,
theatres, &c. One of he men who had the prac-
tical management of the whole thing was Mr. D.
Keeley, a competent and enterprising mechani-
cian; and, dissatisfied with existing arrangements,
he opened business in the line on his own account,
being joined in this undertaking by others. The
patent portable gns which Messrs. Keeley and Co.
send out has six times the brilliancy of kerosene,
at half its cost. It is in no way dangerous, being
incombustible; it is clearer than coal gas,
and is at all times available. An hotel, for in-
stance —say, at Dubbo —can be brilliantly lighted
with chandeliers, wall lights, outside lamps, icc.,
ten times more brilliantly than with kerosene, ana
the cost is below what'is paid Sydney for coal
gas. Pour double chandeliers will light a church
oetter than six four-branch kerosene lamps—and
the gas burns with a clear, steady flame, casting
no perceptible heat, or emitting no offensive
smell. With this portable gas at command, no big
shop in any inland town need be dim as a tunnel,
bur rather be as brilliantly lighted as any bouse in
Sydney. Arrangements can easily be made with
Municipalities tor the lighting of towns, the
patent portable gas having been successfully used
by the Government at Croydon, and at other rail-
way stations on the Southern end Western lines.
The feature about this portable gas is that a burn-
ing lamp may be carried in the hand all over the
nouse with absolute safety; or it may be used
down a mining shaft, or in the street, with equal
safety and facility. Messrs. D. Keeley and Co. are
the only firm who have permission from the in-
surance companies for the use of their materials
in houses, stores, &c., holding policies from them.
Thus, if other material is used, people do so at
their own risk. Keeley and Co. have now many
new varieties of lamps for halls, billiard-tables,
ball-rooms, See., the cheapest, neatest, and safest
articles of the kind ever designed. Pamphlets,
See., will be promptly sent on application to
Messrs. D. Keeley and Co., 71 Goulburn-street.
Second-hand Machinery Depot and Agency.
One of the m"st useful branches of business
established in Sydney of late is that of Messrs.
John M‘Kao and Co., of Market Wharf, who have
opened an extensive depot for the sale of second-
hand machinery of all kinds. This is a great em-
porium, where every firm in the metropolis or the
country districts may forward such machmery as
they have no longer in use, and here is the spot
whence the man about to make a start in business
of any kind can obtain inexpensive appliances in
good working order, serviceable for years, adapted
for any industry or works in course of develop-
ment. Many firms in Sydney have a
means of disposing of machinery displaced by more
poweriul or swifter apparatus, and it of ten occurs
that a firm are using machinery which they would
be glad to dispose of to a buyer in order to admit
of the introduction of better plant. M Rae & Co. s
agency provides the means whereby numbers of
appliances and machinery of all kinds can be for-
warded to the stores for display—with regard to
others, the firm {will receive for sale without
removal any article for disposal. Thus a man with
a 2 h.p. engine, who wishes to obtain a 6 h.p.. may
keep the former in operation till a customer is
found by Messrs. M‘Rae & Co.’s agency; and the
chances of sale through this agency are a thousand
to one against those of private sale. As the firm s
business is well established, buyers of every de-
cription are in daily communication with the firm
for materials in request, and 10,000 catalogues are
put out overy month. And their catalogue is a
substantial, well-arranged thing—a regular boon
to people who want to sell and those who want to
buy urood second-hand appliances There is a
simple index to the catalogue, and each article has
its price fixed, so that a buyer knows what he is
about. The catalogue for sale includes—a great
variety of wood-working machinery, steam-
pumps, numerous steam engines of all sizes, lathes,
belting, saws, drills, gas engines, briok-making
machinery, quartz-crushing plant, agricultural
and general farming appliances, vehicles, wag-
gons, schooners, yachts, &c. No charges made for
storage—commission only on sale—catalogues will
bo promptly forwarded. Messrs. M Rao and Co.
are to be complimented on their enterprise, ana it
is satisfactory to find it meets with increasing
public approval. Country consignments of second-
hand machinery, &0., will be received at the rail-
way or steamer, and removed free of charge to
the front stores in Kent or Market streets.
The most ancient instrument of punish-
ment was a Cain, and its effect was to spoil an
Abel youth.
The “lawyer” vine of the Northern
scrubs, is the most diabolical instrument of tor-
ture the vegetable world has produced, barring
the stinging tree. On the Bussell Biver there are
patches of twenty or thirty acres here and there,
covered solely by “ lawyer. The J?l®
terror-stricken in the P res ®° ce . of „
plant. It is indescribable. The bore and foliage
of the lawyer is handsome, and there is a certain
grace about the long fllamental cane shoots that
are thrown out, sometimes to a length of lw or la
feet, and hang like pendants over the bridle
tracks and old timber roads, thirsting for some
one to come along 1 that they may grab him, and
hear him make the local welkin ring with sulphure-
ous profanity. The main vine attains an astound-
ing length, and on the lower Mulgrave Biver, we
have seen lawyers at least four or live hundred
feet long, running up one free, across on to an-
other, thence down and along the ground in all
sorts of fantastic shapes. On tne raafn vine there
are no obstructions, only the outlying shoots be-
ing covered by the needle-pointed teeth tnat are
turned all in towards the main plant, so that it is
useless to attempt to escape by pulling
These slender vines are as strong as wires, and the
teeth are immovable. No man living, whatever
the nature of his religious training, or the num-
ber of Sunday schools and Y.M.C. Associations he
has frequented, could resist the tremendous incen-
tive to fiery phraseology, whenhe inter view s
a sound, healthy lawyer. We bad a P r °?f
statement in the experienceof a y
who was travelling from Cairns to Herberton. In
making a short cut across a bend of the road, a
* lawyer ” was drawn with disastrous effect across
the bridge of his nose. In a spasmodic attempt at a
back somersault another one hooked him by the
left tar, while two more started successfully to
ventilate the back of his shirt, I" the contest
that ensued between the man of 6°d and
Nick’s ve etable emissary, the future citizen of
Zion was pulled off his astonished steed and found
himself entangled beyond all apparent hope of
ever being extricated withoutsome miraculous
interposition of an ever-watchful Divine Provi-
dence. In the darkest moment of dire extremity
he uttered but one sentence, a fervent Oh
Lord, this is the damnedst device of Satan on
the face of the earth 1” Subsequently he re-
marked to the packer who a ccompanied him : I
feel sure in the sight of Heaven that nothing but
a religious training and Christian precepts pre-
vented mo from uttering some word
during my struggle with that terrible vine.
Says Bishop Barry:—“ As to the man who
is born in a free oountry liko England, and does
not identify himself enough with it t 9 take the
share which the constitution gives him in shaping
its destinies—l confess that such a one does not
seem to me to be more than half a man, and I do
not believe he is half an Englishman.’’ Surely
this is (if ever there was one) an indictment
against more than half a nation, seeing that the
British Constitution condemns an enormous per-
centage of its free-horn (?) sons to be the vote-less
hall men the.BisUop sneers at W oucfieurcz.


W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
SSlii.®*
w.
EASY TERMS SYSTEM I™ INSTRUMENT.
Ol3a--A.INrS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
11, MACHINERY, and SWAM BUNTS,
397 GEORGE STREET,
58 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers* Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENCIWEI
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing- and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Terti cal Fixed.
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Sorewing
Machines. Massey's unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Gen era
.Toilers’ and Mortieing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
■-’Double, andTripicj Furrow Ploughs RfUTOwa, Cultivators, Horse Hoee, Land Rollers, Horse
kes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shellers, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stoeka always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists. *
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacke, Bheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 George Street, Sydney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful ckorm.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces Are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of ooming
disaster, your liver Is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symntoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking tne human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by majrio.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiatiry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
T EDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOUBBON.-The
JLJ drink of the army, navy, the clubf, and the
Amenoan gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 18 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALK
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AKB
EARTHENWA R E,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J. T. G ATEN'S
Sobrvappa and Geneva.
A. MELT IN and SONS’
Edinburg n Pale £ j*.
PAPERBANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FKIKEBB to matob,
NURSERY PAPERS,
OEILUfG CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunternrt.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, <fec.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TTn.d.e:rta,2e@r,
84 HUNTER 4c PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also.
Manager for over tea (10) years.
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
BT THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The oi • y Tobacco combining: Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
Bach PLUG is STAMPED with the word
EUREKA.’ Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
SijwiU’s Toki Ci., Ik
AT TME EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETB,
An i can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according: to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public atrainst spurious and worthless
'munitions.
■ROBERT BUTCHER & CO.
"*■* (Late William Long),
tar* WDJE AND SPIRIT MKB£SLAOTfc
584 GEOBOB STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, ■YD NET
Country Order* reeeive prompt attention.
TO STAND THIS SEASON, at Duekenfleld,
near Morpeth.—The ThoroughbredSealMon
HENCHMAN
Gate Friday), full brother to Robinson Oroide, the
nre of Navigator, by Angler, out of Ohryaollte,
will serve ten approved mares, besides his owner’s,
at Thirty Guineas per mare.
Also,
CROWN PRINCE,
Ke >P'«. out of Queen’s Head, By YattOQdon,
out of Gaselle, will serve ten approved mares,
besides his owner's,
at Ten Guineas per mate.
Splendid paddocks, and every oare thkeri of
mares sent to the above horses, but no responsi-
bility inourred.
All mares must be paid for before removal.
Season ends on Ist January, 18*4. Mares net re-
moved on that date will be charred sAUiings
per week each np to date of removal.
JOHN SALES.
Duokeafleld. September 18th. 188*.
THE FOLLOWING STALLIONS will Stand
the ensuing- Season at RICHMOND, where
nres-clasa Paddocks will be provided for M
Wlt n «very oare and attention, but vtthowt re-
sponsibility i
MARIBYRNONG
GRAND FLANBUII
RAPID RAY ..
MOORTHORPH
JULIAN AYENAL
MONMOUTH ..
BEAUCLERC ..
CHILDE HAROLD
&
«a
&
do.
f9w half-bred Mares will be taken to Beaudero
at naii-pnoo.
mar« h ® orse wIU 1)6 111111 1** 1 to 15 of the pnbllo
All Mares must be paid for and removed by
January 1, 1884. l T
ANDREW TOWN, ;
<2
L Y D E B DALES
T 011 9,Y Imported Pure Clydesdale STAL-
LIONS will STAND at Richmond the coming
Season, when first-olass Paddocks will be provided
for Mares, with every oare and attention, but
without responsibility :
MUIR LAD,
Terms—o Guineas per Mam
„ DA VIE,
Terms—6 Guineas per Mare.
GALLANT SCOTCHMAN.
Terms—« Guineas per Mare.
Comment on these Horses Is unnecessary. They
have proved themselves on all the principal Show
Grounds of the Colony, and their Stock have done
the same, their progeny at sir months old selling
at from 80 guineas to 100 guineas each.
J<£ua£?l? - l88!L Q " t » for •“* amoved by
ANDREW TOWN,
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAttL
The beet known remedy for BKVCffICATffIM.
dfc-.URAI.GUA, HEADACHE. TOOTHIcFib!
BAINS, BBoISSM, BURNS. 6CAUSA, Aq. (J
«ken internally onree pt a it nnnfr Y_
CRAMPS, COLIC, uid all other lutMA'. aßhiM
sad pete* - •
Price, a/, sold
c. L MOULTON, MU MOPEKTOT,
MELBOURNE AND
PAINT
BOAR’S HHAD S»OUT.-Th4i farosMS* „
of Stout sslMted wtih tpnftt Nr* ftgtm th«
9®“ o* bi«wl»g« *f th* Ml*bmt«4 flm af
Arthur ChilnnMß and Co, Dublin, and tWrfar*
r
Ml
TdNIU NtIiVINE
REGTSTRRWD.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
roui and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Live and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, Ac. By Its tonio and soothing effeets
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements It nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d. Bold everywhere
Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHER!,
M.P.8., Pharmacists, 104 and 106 Markßfc-s treat,
near Hyde Park, Sydney. N.B.—All imitations
illegal.


A Meeting.
With never a word she passed me by,
With nover a look or sign;
She silently went her way, and I
As silently went on mine.
No one could have dreamed, who saw hor face,
As we so coldly met,
That her heart was touched by the faintest trace
Of memory or regret.
Nor do I think that one apart.
Who watohed thy tranquil brow,
Would have guessed that the momory stirred my
heart.
Of a faithless, broken vow.
But they needn’t have guessod or wondered, you
see.
For this was the reason why—
I didn’t know her, and she didn’t know me,
And so—she passed me by.
Going to her Doom. —An Incident of Waterloo (N.S.W.).
Thus “ Ouida” (in a letter to the London
Times) in vindication of tho realism of the situa-
tions of her novels—situations which she com-
plains are too often called “outre and impossible”:
“ Why are not those who can love and suffer thus
as deserving of pourtrayal in fiction as the epicene
beings who know no woes but a passing hysteria
of conscience or a disillusion before the melting
of a foggy and impalpable ideal ? Because passion
has never touched with its fire and its glory tho
prim life of tho {esthetic prig or the rotund
Philistine, it is not for that reason perished off the
face of tho earth. It exists in the same force and
the same fervour as in the days of Othello and
Stradella To many of us—to myself, I
oonfess, among the number—the world seems a
marvellous union of tragedy and comedy, which
run side by side like twin children; like a ‘ web of
Tyrian looms’ with the gold threads crossing
and recrossing on the dusky purple of its
intricate meshes. But there are, no doubt,
a number of good and tiresome people to whom it
seems only a Quaker mute, a suit of homespun, a
length of huckaback ; they judge by what they
have known themselves. How is one to persuade
them that their knowledge is not the measure of
the world ? The amorous, magnifloont, heroic lifo
of Skoboloff would, no doubt, seem incrediblo to
the London litterateur with his prim domesticities
bound up in a duodecimo suburban villa, papered
by Morris, or the rural clergyman solemnly pacing
his treadmill of weekly monotonies ; but Michael
Skobeloff was just as ‘real’ as are the modern
Puff and Wormwood going up and down in their
underground railway trains, or the Reverend
Crawleys surrounded with their olive branch*s in
muddy midland vintages.” We side with “ Ouida”
in her tilt against the fictitious realism of tho
spineless commonplace. Truth is, indeed, much
Stranger than fiction. What novelist of the “ prim
domesticity ” school, for instance, would ever
idealise such a situation as this : a young labourer
seduced by his master’s daughter declining to
marry her on religious grounds, after admitting
the paternity of thair child I Yet Grafton
(N.S.W.) papers report such a situation as a recent
local fact.
The Salvation Army of Victoria celebrated
its first “anniversary ” at tho Exhibition Building,
Melbourne, on New Year’s Day; and considering
that some 18,000 poople paid one shilling each for
admission to tho “services,” a very profitable
anniversary it must have proved—for the rent of
tho building, including gas, is a mere song. £9OO
(independent of a liberal profit from the sale of
light refreshments, and tho moneys thrown upon
the platform under the excitement of a sort of
mad dervish dance gone through by the “officers”)
is no inconsiderable sum to be netted in one day;
and the high glee displaying itself upon tho ill-
favoured countenances of these gentlemen was
very natural, under the circumstances. This,
however, can hardly be accepted as an excuse for
the larrikinism that was rampant among the
“staff” at the big evening “service,” when tho
spectacle of two “ captains ” dancing about the
platform, with their arms about one another’s
necks, was hideously revolting to such as are not
yet “saved.” A habit of cuddling one another
appears, by tho way, to be a distinguishing trait
among members of the “ Harmy; ” for a pugilistic-
looking “staff sergeant,” after roughly embracing
"Major” Barker and the ltev. Mr. Horsley (who
looked particularly uncomfortable under the en-
dearment), was so filled with the “spirit” that he
felt forced to relieve his feelings by rushing for-
ward t® a drivelling old party who was testifying,
and by roughing up his hair with both hands-a piece
of horseplay whicn provoked thundors of “ Halle-
lujahs” from admiring friends. Strange to say,
among the many “ testimonies ” that wore given,
there was not one of a financial character. No
balance-sheet was read. Nor did a “lieutenant,”
for instance, who held forth at considerable length,
explain how it is that a salary of one pound per
week enables himself and wife to keep up such a
well-fed appearance as they both presented. Surely
a few hints on domestic economy, from such a
thrifty soldier, would have been invalu ibleto any
young couples just starting housekeeping. Tho
while that these “testimonies ’ were being
screamod out from the front of tho platform, any
amount of blasphemous “chaff” was interchanged
in an undertone among the uniformed larrikins,
massed together at the side, affording ample proof
to any “outsider” taking tne trouble to get a
place among them, of the rottenness of the whole
business. However, the paying public in front,
who could hear none of their “ pleasantries,” evi-
dently regarded these mountebanks as splendid
specimens of redemption. Another noteworthy
feature of the evening “service” was the “faint-
ing” of one of the girls on the platform, who,
proving impervious to all efforts to bring her to,
was carried away in the arms of two “soldiers.”
With her arm round one fellow’s neck, a beautiful
colour on her cheek, and her lips parted in a gentle
sigh, she certainly looked rather a tempting
burden. Altogether, the “ anniversary ” gather-
ing may be described, in the words of the Mel-
bourne D.T., as “ thoroughly unique.”
Our dear old Sydney friend, the Rev.
John Alexander Dowie, gave a lecture the other
evening at the Temperance Hall, Melbourne, ex-
plaining the doctrine of faith healing, and making
statements concerning tils own particular prowess,
Which plainly show that the Melbourne death-rate
is in a fair way to be reduced to a minimum, if not
entirely abolished. On this last head, the itev. D.
is stiU a little doubtful; he would be sorry, in-
deed, to assert, he tells us, that he can’t raise
people from the dead, but he has not successfully
practised on any “stiff ’uns” up to the present
time. The rev. physician, it appears, is infallible
in cases otf “ interior diseases of women, to a most
extraordinary degree,” over lOUOsuch cases having
been cured during the last fifteen months, the
grateful sighing of several females' among the
audience testifying to the truth of his statement.
John Alexander Impressed upon his hearers (who,
by the bye, formed altogether about the most
“job ” lot of humanity ever assembled, even in a
Temperance Hall) the fact that he was actuated
by no desire for worldly gain in the spiritual hoal-
ings to which he was devoting himself; nay, more
—that he refused with scorn the “gold which was
scattered at his feet ” by grateful patients, and
then—the plate came round. After the plate had
run its allotted course, the lecturer detailed some
of his most startling cures, commencing by in-
stancing the case of a young woman who had
made a donation to the world of a beau-
tiful babe, only a week before,” and was now
“going on well.’ ’ (Hear, hear! and hallelujah! from
the front benches.) Another cure was that of a Mr.
Sparkes, a gentleman who had for years been the
owner of a “ blind left eye,” owing to a cancer
which persisted in developing itself in the rear of
the unfortunate optic. Mr. Sparkes called upon
Mr. Dowie, and was “ arrested in the Lord,” and, in
“ loss than three minutes ” from the time that Mr.
D. poked his peeper, the cancer ran out into a
handkerchief, and Mr. Sparkes “could read large
print.” (Applause, and more Hallelujahs! which
Mr. Dowie, with a deprecatory smile, begged
might he suppressed.) More illustrations of faith
followed, so remarkable in their results that Mr.
D. expressed an opinion that “people might almost
think he was romancing.” (Hear, hear! from an
insignificant clique of sceptics.) And then, as
“ time ” was about to be called, he wound up with
an attack upon newspapers in general, and the
Spectator in particular, the editor of which
journal is so misguided as to feel doubts upon the
subject of faith-curing. The violence of Mr.
Howie’s attack leads people to imagine that, if the
rev. gentleman possessed powers of death-dealing
in an equal measure with those of life-saving, his
detractor might shortly expect a funeral in the
family. Strange to say, Mr. Dowie permitted his
“ dear friends ” to disperse without giving any of
the practical proofs of his power—which some of
them had evidently looked forward to, and much
commiseration was expressed for a blind man,
who was permitted to Igrope his way out of the
Hall in the same uncertain style that had charac-
terised his entrance.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry,*


Foster s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents tor Hoidsieck & Co.. Reims.
BLEND
[trade]
M A
S£CIS TEf©
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL &
Agents.
& CO., Sole
\
( 170
R.BURCIS
TAILOR .
VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.*!
Diagrams for self-measuring’ forwarded to any
part of the Colony
"^fILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
BEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,'
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. Ac. &c.
HEBBLEWHITE &C0.
418 GEORGE STREET.
Marshall's Fluid
' Extracto^Dandelion
Liver Complaints.
IV/ MARSHALL BROTHERS*
CM EIVHSTS... MARK ET STRE Ef.
THE ghndagai herald,
“®s*p r al Gazette & Farmers’ Chronicle,”
'PPMrvTj a is incorporated the
TEMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL,”
_ Published every
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor.
Theatrical Job Printing, and box office for
Assembly Hall.
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY.
CASH SALE.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 23 Hunter-# treat,
beg to inform their customers and the public that
they are now offering their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 35 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous prices.
N.B.—As Christmas is close at hand, the opportu-
nit^ should not be missed of purchasing intended
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
GILBEY’S silverstream schnapps.
Gilbey’s Old Whito Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as beiug of tho highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCK till A CO., Sole Agents,
U'/ti Georgo-street, Sydney.
EOIIGE GOULET and CO.’S
Extra Quality
DRY CHAMPAGNE
has been selected for the
CORONATION
of
lIIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY TIIE CZAR OF
RUSSIA,
and Festivities at St. Petersburg, aud was the
ONLY CHAMPAGNE
served at the
ROYAL BANQUET
giveu in honour of the
OPENING of tho AMSTERDAM EXHIBITION
to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KINO OF HOLLAND.
“154 Collius-street, East, Melbourne.
“Dear Sir,—Of tho sample of George Goulet’s
‘ kxtha jihy’ Champagne, J cannot speak in
tonne, 100 highly. Its qualities are certainly of a
very high Older. It possesses a etinrmlng bouquet
fruity and pronounced. Jt is essentially a dry
wine, with attenuation, and free from‘acidity
It is full, crisp, and clean on tho palate; ami
whilst it exhtiirates, it unquestionably aids d gos
tiou.
“ Yours faithfully,
“(Signed,) James Geo. Beaney, M.D.
“To It. H. Blackwell, Esq.”
GARRICK A CO., Sydney Agents.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
K.
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SUHGEON-DENTIST.
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
Hours, 9 till 5.
WNf. RUSSELL,
DENTIST
- -
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Artificial Teeth, from ss. Stopping, Scaling, and
Extracting'equally pioderate. Malformations and
accidental deformities of the jaws, teeth, or palate,
treated. King-st. entrance. All work guaranteed.
A CONTRIBUTOR to all the leading journals
and magazines of Australia, supplies origi-
nal leaders, essays, sketches, &c., and newsletters
Communications may be addressed to “Marco”
care of Bulletin office, Sydney ’
TATTERS ALL’S CUP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY, 1884.
No. 1 CONSULTATION.
W. ENCOURAGED by past successes, I
JJJ announce that I intend haying a
SERIES OF CONSULTATIONS
on the above.
beg to
No. 1 is now open, and will close
possible date.
at the earliest
I must request Immediate application, so that
o°f r hedgffig aV ° a Bro ° d o PP or °™ity
Distribution as follows
First Horse
Second Horse
Third Horse
Starters (divided among)
Non-Starters (divided among)
£.lOOO
400
300
300-
200
Address—
“JANITOR,”
Care of E. E. Jon
International
£3OOO
Sydney,
AYER’S '
Hair Vigor
restores, •with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may bo darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It oheoks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disoase peculiar to the
soalp. As a Ladies’ llair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Buioher writes from Kirby, 0..
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time I became
nearly bald. 1 used part of a bottle of
Avku’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a now growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for tho
use of your preparation I should havo been
entirely’bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for tlie hair.
1 speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes tiie growth of new hair, and
makos it glossy and soft. Tho Vigor is also
a sure euro for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has tho preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fatimiairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbaim Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from lioaton, Mass., Feb. 6,
1S80 : “ F.ver since my hair began to give sil-
very ovidence of tho chango which fleeting
time procureth, I havo used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so havo boon able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors. actors, and in fact every one who lives
in tho eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Flm
St., Charlestown , Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and 1 was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s llair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. 1 1
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. 1 regularly used hut one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
Wo havo hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince tho most skepti-
cal of its value.
ritEPARE® BY
Dr.J C.AyerfitCo.,Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
vr xhe premier whiskey is
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a-t"u.red
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street,, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.'S DUBLIN WHISKEY*
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Exy < vt at the Distillery.
Dublin, and consumers may, tu- refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ " hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule,
Daly Brothers,
Solo Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
HT 308 GEORGE STREET. '
oQOMFZE^
Jlf •GW?
nC I
<c ELEBRt&&'
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OX-D SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAftEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
VT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN'S COFFEE.
AFTER BEFORE
Copyrighted
MOUSTACHE and WHISKERS.
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, and
I will do it on cither bald head or
bare fare. Eotcsa heavy Mous-
tache in front 2 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
BEFone after
t Lbpyright&d.
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect; Packets Is. 6flt.
each, U for &s..&i, t post paid , sent under oner, free from observation.
fAddrmf, Trank Bougla«, Soto Aftnt.Bm TBO, <3.P 0„ Sj/ttnty,N.S. W-
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
3i. 6d. per week—3s. Bd. per week—3s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
BT" BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Ajrents for tho ONLY GENUINE “ SINGER,"
TURNER & COMPANY,
578 Georjre-street
3 doors past Bathurst-streot.
THE ONLY "SINGER."
Turner and Company,
678 GEORGE STREET
3 doors past Bathurst-street.
A COLOSSAL TRADE!!!
Tin following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUT IE US In tho
LAnCEDT and Most EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
SomeilOO hands aro now employed by Messrs.
SUMMEItf'IELn & Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUJBBO, WAGGA, and 61 &53
LEADENHALL-STKEET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, tho well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FUOST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PitOBYN, of Poole’s, Saville llow,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. It. iViOKKISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
held and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TACTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W.bHAW.
LuIMERfIELIJU,
THE PEOPLED TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
-vv Warranted .fii’st quality
V OvTl *£ e :■. •V*l d IV MODER AT£
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentist jog marketst e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PEItFOItMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttraoted I’alnlemnly
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The non-alcohol c beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tonjo, and docs not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by tbc Faculty as a substitute for
wine, leer, and spirits, as it invisrorutes without
producing any intoxicating: effect. In case of
debility consequent on a long- residence in a hot
climat&, Jt is of great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stlmiiCaut, but aiso as a permanent tonic
to the system.
I* || || ft || 1 H i, 24/“
Price per car? containing 10 dozen pints .7.21/-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-stroet,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 Gcorge-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
UP N.B. Patterna and Priced sent.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERED
C<TT7DY ECONOMY.
k_s and
Have your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, Between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted


Mb. DeCoubcy Bbownb (late Deputy-
Chairman of Djo Mining Board of New South
Walee), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every olass of Land and Mining Business
In the Puhlio Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Advt.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘.Or languishing on a bed 6f sickness,
'take eheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ nation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as Is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“If you are In the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you seed.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and Impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Lift
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks : impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomaoh.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you Will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GRAHAM
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
BiS, late 681, Georg ©-street, Sydney.
Gbktmmsn,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, whioh are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hilo, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion In the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well ] .
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to aU the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wIH suffice to establish their claim
on your patrenage.
I am, Sir,
Yourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTER,
FOR indigestion,
SNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEA
NESS, &c*
PRICE.. ... „ .. as. Bd.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, 1
_ ... « :BRSKINE STBi„.
hr v. h. *otti,, all oii«fii*i«
Tropic Love
When autumn seres the leaves,
And clouds arise,
My spirit ether cleaves,
And southward flies,
Fleet-winged as frigate-bird,
O’er traokless seas;
By distance undeterred,
Or baffling breeze.
It wantons o'er those isles,
A glittering chain,
Where tropio beauty smiles,
In Auster’s main.
A reef-girt land its goal,
It hears again
The moaning billows roll,
The trade-wind’s strain
Vibrate along the shore,
While rustling palms
Responsive murmurs pour
In ghostly psalms.
There, piping-voiced at eve,
Sun-gilded maids,
In chorus, weirdly grieve,
As darkness shades
Their passion-kindling charms
That lusty Day
Has pressed with burning arms,
Till urged away.
In ocean’s urn, he oools
His null ton faoe;
As pahMLuna rules
Thmslir-lit space.
Yet vivid with his fires,
In shaded bower,
The ardent youth desires
The trysting hour.
That blissful hour, when soft
The queen of night,
In beauty reared aloft,
With pensive light,
Romantio thought inspires,
And wild delights;
Till passion wakes his fires,
And love requites.
80, yonder youthful pair
With ardour burn,
In mutual fondness share —
For rapture yearn.
Beneath the smiling moon,
In ambush placed,
They, wildered own the boon
By angels graced;
On silvery wings, ariso
To realms above.
And crown, with blissful sighs,
The dreams of Love I
HEOTOB A. STUART.
How he Died.
We found him dead in the cellar,
With a piok-axe in his hand.
And a look in his eyes, once stellar,
Horoio, and oven grand.
You remember, of course, the story
Of the Roman sentinel,
Who was dug up to gleam in glory
For doing nis duty well.
This man, no less than the Roman,
Deserved an immortal name—
For, we say it distinctly, no man
Could more have struggled for fame.
He was a bard, and to us
Sent arwmio—miles of it—
Whion enwvod that he little knew us—
We shoved it.down in the pit.
Down in the pit, deep under
The floor: that pit so dark,
Where the loudest olap of thunder
Sounds like a kitten’s bark,
He eame to the office proudly,
His hair behind him streamed.
And he asked for his poem loudly,
And ire in his eyes there gleamed.
We oould not his epic, stellar,
Give him baok, e’en for love;
But* pointing down to the cellar,
We gave him a gentle shove.
Wo opened the trap-door lately,
Another bard to drown—
Our bards are increasing greatly,
Binoe kerosene’s gone down.
There is a pile of papers
Down In the poem-pit,
And the burner of midnight tapers
Had just got his head through it.
Foems enough to dethrono one’s
Reason, were buried here—
And he had not found his own ones,
Though he had been there a year.
The Reason.
You know the style of men who oall
Their lady mothers “ maters,”
Whose shoes you cannot see at all
For Nubian and gaiters;
The boys who sport the shortest coats,
And oollars wear that cut their throats—
You’ve seen them bloom,
And heard the talk that drives you wild
With fury, of each gilded child
In some refreshment room.
Well, Hugh de Guy was one of these
Close-buttoned up nonentities,
Just oome across the sea.
He’d done the trip— aw—lust for fun;
He had no “ooin” but ‘‘travelled” on
Ris noble pedigree.
He came to oonquer and to crush,
With others of a high-toned “ push,"
And “ give the girls a treat ”;
And 10, behold De Guy. he froze
On to a Hebe—one of those
So rosy and so neat,
That ronllv Bite. gleams quite a star,
Aloft caM bar.
Amidst the wreck could be discerned
A marble table over-turnod,
And, 10, behold a pair
Of brightly-shod be-gaitered feet,
Toe-pointed to the ceiling beat
With feebleness the air.
*' The matter ? ”—Oh. she’ll tell it you.
While dancing are her eyes of blue—
In terms that are not devious—
“ We fired the masher out because
It Just ocourred to us he was
Considerably too—previous I ”
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, when the exploration of New
Guinea is commanding so much publio attention,
it may bo interesting to know that as early as 1864,
when the late Dr. Lang, by a series of lectures,
evoked considerable interest throughout the
colonies in that island and its vast unknown re-
sources, some Queensland pioneers, viz.: Arthur
Blair, John Graham, Walter I. Eden Mackay (the
disooverer of Port Mackay), and Cotgrave (Indian
Navy), wrote to Mr. Herbert, then Colonial Secre-
tary, asking if they succeeded in fitting out an
expedition, and developing the resources of New
Guinea, would the Queensland Government re-
munerate them. To whioh Mr. Herbert replied,
that while warmly approving of such an object,
he regretted the Government were not prepared
to assist in such an exploration, but recommended
them to apply to Sir Roderick Impey Murchison,
then president of the Royal Geographical Socioty.
Thus the matter fell through.
“ Watch your flevnete as she leaves your arms.”—
Rousseau (slightly alter ed)._
[For The Bulletin.]
It was only yesterday we heard why Jones
had taken to drink. He was to be married on
Monday last, and on Sunday night he spent four
hours gazing on mementoes of his bachelorhood
before destroying them.—
Photos, of barmaids, columbines, grisettes,
Clowns, corner-men, plump, pleasant leading
ladies
(So called because, when we become their pets,
We shoot the rapids on the road to Hades),
With here a heap o’ stereoscopic slides
Maidens in dress biaarre and pose entrancing,
There a danseuse whose gauze but thinly hides
The limbs she twirls bewitchingly in dancing.
Pipes of the fragrant cherry wood, whose scent
Perfumed the air at many a glorious revel—
(Alas 1 that hours so joyously mis-spent
Should lead—as preachers tell us—to the devil;
That nights at poker, lansquenet, or trente-
Wt-un, diversified with song and laughter,
But end in muddled minds and bodies bent,
And life should never seem the same life after.)
Copies of “Cavendish” were on the case.
Of Ovid’s “ Art of Love ” (ne’er out of season).
A pamphlet on “ The Way to Win a Race,”
The ‘‘Odes of Horace, 1 ’ Tom Paine’s “Age of
Reasn,”
The “ Book ©1 Common Prayer,” the “ Sportsman’s
Guide”
(Who does not read the latter is a dull dog),
“ ifce Way to Set a Rat-trap,” side by side
with “ How to Choose a Wife,” or “ Train a Bull-
dog."
The Christmas Bulletin, with “ Ghostly Gold”
(Who has not read it ?) on the well-known cover:
“ I cannot part with this,” he said, and fold-
Ed it upon his breast, like ardent lover
When to his heart he olasps his chere amie.
Or hears her thirteen boot upon the back-stair
Trying to estimate her L.S.D.—
Guessing the artist's where she bought her slack-
hair.
Gath’ring them all in one promiscuous mound,
Pipes and tobacco, fairies of the ballet—
Queens who to airs melodious nimbly bound—
Sophy and Stella, Susan, Sis. and Sally,
Horace and Ovid, Ouida, Zola, Paine-
All that the jcunesse doree madly crazes—
He stuff’d into the stove, and when again
He turned—in one fierce blaze they’d gone to
blazes.
The early sunbeams danced on daisied lea,
Meadows and uplands, hill sides, plaius and hal-
lows,
Tipping the crested waves far out at sea,
Darting and diving like a flight of swallows.
He rose: the happy morn at length had come
For him to don the matrimonial halter,
Forswear eoartd, nicotine, and rum,
And pledge his love and fealty at the altar.
Upon his table lay a perfum’d note
(It was not there when he retired to slumber),
He kissed the seal—full well he knew who wrote
“Jones,Esq., Coogee” (sheleftout thenumber)—
Then trembled, stagger’d, fell upon the floor:
His fiancee (she begged him not to scorn her)
Had run away from home the night before
With Bill, the one-eyed butcher round the corner.
And now ’tis said he’s taken to the flute,
Toots “ As I view those scenes ” and “ Do not
mingle;”
Her image he’s extracted branch and root,
And swears that through this life he’ll journey
single.
Pond’ring upon his first love and his last—
Hoping that Bill, when on the “bust,” will
“cook” her—
His days he gives to “ Mem’ries of the past,”
His nights to hazard, billiards, rum, and euchre.
Official letters received at Perth indicate
that Mr. Anthony Hordern, of Sydney, who is ar-
ranging the Mammoth Land and Railway Scheme
for West Australia, was much more successful
than Sir Julius Vogel, who started a similar enter-
arise at the same time and for the same colony.
tr. Hordern, being ready to invest his own large
capital, found others in the same way willing; but
with Sir Julius, probably on account of his specu-
lative political history, very little money was
forthcoming. The result is that while Mr. Hor-
dern’s syndicate proceeds with their Beverley-
Albany line, they amalgamate with Sir Julius
Vogel’s company to carry out their York-Eucla
Railway scheme. Private letters state that “Sir
Anthony Hordern ” is on the cards.
While we Australians are devoting our
ingenuity to solving the perspiring problem of
how to keep cool, other English colonists—in
Canada—are occupied with quite a different task,
the Canuck’s lively dread of frost-bite being just
on a par with the Cornstalk’s nervous apprehen-
sion of sun-stroke. The Winter Carnival at Mont-
real commences on the 15th of this month, and the
thought of the beautiful Ice Palace which will be
erected on Dominion Square causes a refreshing
shiver to run through one’s half-baked body. The
Palace is built of about 8000 large blocks of ice,
“mortared” together by snow, the only wood-
work about the structure being in the turrets of
its fine towers; however, the application of the
“ hose ” to the pine branches which compose these
turrets soon supplies them with the coating of ice
necessary to complete the fairy-like tout ensemble.
With the electric light gleaming through the
crystal walls, the effect at night-time is positively
dazzling, and the American visitors who filled
Montreal during last year’s Carnival week were
loud in the admiration of the unique spectacle.
The whole cost of erecting the Palace and the ad-
jacent ice-huts (where “Johnston’s Fluid Beef”
is dispensed in ten cent drinks) is about £5OO, less
the price which some enterprising ice-merchant
pays for “the building as it stands,” when the
Carnival is over. A novel item in the week’s pro-
gramme is a two days’ trotting meeting held on
the St. Lawrence River. A very good mile track
is cut out of the rough surface of the ice, a tem-
Iio rary grand-stand is erected, and a muster of at
east twenty thousand people each day witness the
sport, the temperature out there in the open—for
the river is two miles broad opposite Montreal-
being about 25 degrees below zero. Speaking of
the temperature, it is amusing to see the Yankee
visitors, who have run over in their immaculate
stove-pipe hats, hasten to lay out a few dollars in
fur caps, realising the inconvenience which would
result from returning home without any ears to
speak of. Another big thing is a torchlight pro-
cession by about a thousand members of the
different snow-shoe clubs, in their picturesque
costumes, who, after “inaugurating” the Ice
Palace, start for a tramp up Mount Royal, at the
baok of the city. As the men make their way
along the tortuous track to the top of the moun-
tain, the blazing torches look, from the distance,
like a great fiery serpent wriggling through the
snow, while the rapid descent is even more strik-
ing. But the standing dish of the Carnival is
tobogganning. A toboggan may be roughly de-
scribed as a board in four joints, about six feet
long and two feet broad, with a curled iron front,
and low cane rails running along the sides. Upon
this, two and even three people take their seats,
packing themselves as closely as possible; ana
when all is ready, the “steersman” starts the
toboggan down the steep snow track, throws him-
self on to the end, and with the right leg hanging
behind tries his best to steer a straight course
throughout the journey, using his leg lor a rudder
in much the same way as a fish uses its tail. The
principal toboggan tracks are down the side of a
mountain, and as they soon get worn almost as
smooth as glass, a half-mile spin doesn’t take many
seconds. The chief danger that the voyageurs run
is from collisions through erratic courses beiDg
kept, or being overtaken by a heavier and there-
fore swifter party—in which case some nasty spills
aDd occasionally broken limbs result. But con-
sidering that at Carnival time as many as two
thousand toboggans run down a track in one day
there are wonderfully few accidents; and given an
expert “ coxcn,” a tramp up the mountain is well
repaid by the exquisite excitement of the almost
breathless journey down again. The majority of
the Canadian girls enter into the sport with en-
thusiasm (though it is needless to mention that a
cavalier does the steering), but strangers in the
country, even of the masculine persuasion, find
some difficulty in screwing up their courage to the
sticking point, and usually prefer to line the sides
of the track and watch what they term the “ fool-
hardiness” of their young friends. The initial
journey is the “pill”—after that, the terrors
quickly disappear; but the sort of bid-good-bye-
to-mother expression which a man usually wears
while “ enjoying ” his first toboggan ride affords
infinite amusement to the onlookers. Rather dif-
ferent, all this, to a Christmas picnic.
Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, roaches, ants,
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, jack-rabbits, cleared
out by “Rough on Rats.” Moses, Moss & Co,.
Sydney, General Agents.
“THE BULLETIN” PRIMER-LESSON V.
you po-
gjflZ AJite dna
B» f df ? I dm
jfjoolite.but noi fat
The Jre rich gen t-
in If)e /oic-
i ture i.s fdt dncL po
.life He is Idhncr
d. jfroll willi the U
S dy. She prefers -
1 the Se&L- shore, .
Se<\-shor c i s
Sdndy ThegFrcnch gen 11 e-
mar) is no! onl/ f<*l, Lul has A tv'oocU eo
leg-. .He i s ver- y }slite dnd exclaims:
‘Y&rJJeu ! /his Cfarwant / S<?cre mor>
u. '.' hut lls IS premiere c/dsse //. /eeftab
/e take le *jb/oomi/) '/em me !!! * * *!!!!!!! ** v
Jee the BULLET IN Easy Bessons )n French Which
Contentftl afe publishing-..


m
O
m
>
Ml'S
aS
33S&541 taa
■i^^-cYiDNEYt^?
V STT'CCT
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs hy London workmen.
ET* C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STUB' El
N.B^—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled HaJr,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
The SMITH
Have no rival
on tlie Planet.
Sole Agents:
GRAMPTON
and;
BRUGE.
SHF
m
-ife SfeiSßSia r• h n
" “"■* ■• —■>> =' j } ..7 .
281
GEORGE ST.,
OPPOSITE
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OE PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
PRIVATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
2v£a,rtin . ISZeesla.a,a^.,
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
A#no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
lE. m^K7 m olff Sz Son’s
PEMCILS.
To be bad from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
CHINA & GLASS AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
BROKEN SERVICES MATCHED, and made up complete.
CHINA REPAIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Lent on Hire.
X- SMITH,
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
269
Corner of Royal Arcade, Sydney.
>4%
THE ONLY CENUINE TINTAG,
TOBACCO.
are the largest consumers of American
Leaf in the colonies, hence the FIRST
Hi rissa--’. position for quality is assigned to their Twist
and Flat Tobaccos —Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick
twist), R. C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture, and others.
CIGARETTES. —Their CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold an equal position.
WTO. ft 0., Importer* of Pipe* of every kind, Cijraw, and all Tobacconist*’ fancy Goods and Sundries
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
t3T* TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE EIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading- Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. AH goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angel® Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, Which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie h Brae, Articles of Vert it,
Terra Cotta, China-ware, &c.,
Tricycles, French and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Soh-o Eazaar
352 Georg® Street.
Haymarket Auction Rooms
AND
FURNITURE BAZAAR
COEN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
724 GEOKGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalments taken.
PS“ Open—Mondays and Wednesdays, 9 to 9
Saturdays . . . .9to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . .9 to 6
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
THE NEW SOUTH-WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREIIAM, Manager.
PURE COUNTRY SUBLK.
IJIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Buffer.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & tee Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Surest,
m#
mm
iMMi
IMPORTERS
Of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£26 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock,
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund..
.£BOO,OOO
.£137,500
Directors i
The Hon. Sir John H ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.C.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq.
Hon. H. E. Cohen, Eaa
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 153 Leadenhall-street.
Directors •
Edward Chapman, Esq. | Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.'
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This hank transacts'all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
H
AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Rom«n
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality,
Note the Address—
-644 G EORGE STREET.
a
tr, ill! ter,’'
TEMPORARY PREMISES :
110 King.sfs'eet, Sydney.
11 GUN?LEE, THE
CATERER ”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S ”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER ”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
Has decided to open in Syd-
ney, but premises such as lie
desires are not now available.
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the abovo
address.
Name is a household word,
and in's desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who may rest assured that
the care and attention winch
has made “Gunslor the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring' colony
will bo devoted to any and
every undertaking he may
enter into.
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the colonic•,
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, doilies,
and every delicacy in such
stylo and at such mode to to
.prices as has never been at-
tempted in this city.
Has a practical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will uo his be. t
to deserve it.
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, tor the
Christmas and New Voir
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is confident they will
meet with universal appro\ al
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
Make a special effort for the
supply of the finest bianris
of French and English » on-
fectionery, lor which he is
solo Agent in Australia.
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normanby,
and V.lt. Club.
Is the leading Australian
Caterer.
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands.
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
HO O 8 B YOUR PIANO
AT
CHARLES HUENERBEIN’S
178 Pitt Street.
BEST INSTRUMENTS ! CHEAPEST PRICES J
NERVOUS OEBELITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
NC
a HAIC4
TREATMrMT
k R. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
-1 MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death ; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 355.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. Wo guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 355., the purchaser will receive
the manufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not eifect a cure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia.


Gold.
(REGISTERED.)
T eTxreller3r I
/
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 EOYAL ARCADE.
D9U MU JEWELLERY, CiPE SOLE ITCHES, St.,
latest fashions.
I
!
m
WATCHES, 'TEOI/C 30©- EACH.
Special Country Orders punctually attended
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with th,e original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
J
jr.
THE PEOPLE'S CLOTHIER, .
re OPENING up, ov«ry day, a c S FROCK C aDd C PAGET'OOATS^HAfiD aDd j
vmmß«awu£SW*re hosiekv. Every
Plato l*u« ““„ r chock ful,. Como early aud to,poet the Stock to both shop..
, ZTSSSSW- WOKK.NG
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVER
j. j. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haymarket;
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER Of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accominodatioa
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
seoarate.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusemonts.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 315.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LTON RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone am
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
tiEYDE, TOOSBA®B & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
Schweppe s Mineral Waters,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
Wine Merchants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
SODA-WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE,
POTASS, LITHIA (for gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 BEKNERS-STREET, LONDON;
58 MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY.
SEARL & SONS,
NUItSEKYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETISTS
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORG E-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
$5?” Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPT.,
67 GEORG E STREET WEfVE.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors. to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Desicns and Estimates Furnished on application.
, 9
rz
y ■ ▼ v-N*
m .
HOT WATER BATHS
HAIR ' V/tSj'!AKINC; ESTABLISHMENT
/ oxford £ r . •
HALF HC/L/QAYFVt'rt Y TSYI/ASOAY •
iJ2 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on tho most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Settling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
THE AUSTRALIAN
Diamond Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to'
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to anv depth, at a reduction of 25 PER CENT
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will And their own
uel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
10 charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
I hint and will also provide workmen engineers, &c.
new duplex barrel, introduced into the
JBby by Mr J. Cogblan, will be used free of
arge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every conlidenee, from liis pract-
ical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
o able to give general satistaction, as well as quick
espateh to all Orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGIILAtf,
INGHAM’S
~ 'V
»jjl
Cure
Coughs ?
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
%
;^^OCKHAMP T ° N
SB*
a-@
TO
*3>
-A
/>
»4
o
c
O
3D
O
0
%
'*>
<0
D
°k
B’
ULL-DOG ALE.-1T is w
» or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this kc,£„2 U^ 0
estimation. Common crude beers
made very fine, but no other brand has the
sumo mellow vinous ch&riictor* t-iie fullness on
the t.aK and the great beeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who tor the sake of an
extra profit represent
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CAITELL
& CO.; Agents. Newcastle Agents. WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customeis and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
wT M. WALL AC®
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile w
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. 496 GEORGE ST.. .
WRIGHT, HEATON &GQ
(LIMITED), I
GENERAL CARRIER*'
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, SycM
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT 0? &
SOUTH WALES..
BRANCH. OFFICES.
Southern District, N,S.W.:
Goulburn
Yass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootarnundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narandera
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Ncvertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
NORTHERN District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrina
Gunned ah lam worth
Narrabri Lralla
Walgett
QOEENSLAND BRANCHES.
SOUTHERN AND SOUTH-WEST BRN 12**'
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Line:
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Ravenswood J uD °
Agent 3 In Victoria and South Austral
WM. M'CULLOCH & CO., I 4# 1 ' \
82ST Agencies in all parts of the
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, : ' < :
Manufacturer of aEi kinds of Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, aod Props ietor of Vigorino*
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
