

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 46.—New Series
SATURDAY, MAY 3, 1884.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 3, 1884.
Perjury.
At the commencement of the proceed-
ings in connection with the death of the
prize-fighter, Agar, it seemed likely that
the interests of justice were to be frustrated
by another of those exhibitions of wholesale
perjury with which the outrage cases of
Wooloomooloo and Waterloo have rendered
the public familiar. Persons conversant
with the ordinary proceedings in our courts
are aware that false swearing is not peculiar
to the cases we have mentioned, nor in any
way exceptional. It is merely the fact that
sensational trials attract an inordinate
amount of public attention, are reported in
unusual detail, and are followed through all
their stages with concentrated and critical
interest, which brings into relief the callous
insensibility with which witness after wit-
ness gives sworn testimony to suit his own
inclination, convenience, or safety. The
same thing is uninterruptedly going on in
the courts all the time, and the witness boxes
in the Temples of Justice have become, in
lieu of holy confessionals, mere stalls of blas-
phemous iniquity. It is not, however, in
New South Wales only, or even in Australia*
that the moral cancer has fastened upon the
institutions of justice. There is evidence
that it has become, in some degree, an uni-
versal complaint. In Great Britain, Judges
have, from time to time, animadverted on
the prevalence of false or reckless testimony,
and in our own colony more than one of the
minor Judges have deplored the flagrancy of
the evil.
* • •
It would not be surprising, however, were
it to be demonstrated that in our own com-
munity the evil is peculiarly aggravated and
acute. In several very important respects
the course of legislation has been, in N. S.
Wales, so regulated as to offer every induce-
ment for the population to educate itself to
think lightly of a solemn oath or equally
solemn declaration. The agrarian system
for which Sir John Robertson is responsible,
and to which he owes hik order of knight-
hood, has been indeed impotent to settle a
population upon the soil. But it has oper-
ated most effectually, and with enormous
force, to demoralise all whom its provisions
touched, in the matter of oaths and affirma-
tions. It has offered actual premiums, in
cash or in real estate, for perjury retail and
wholesale. However difficult it might be
for men to get employment in a pastoral
district by straightforward exertion, thei e
has always been an easy livelihood and a fifty-
pound note ready for the acceptance of any
individual who would undertake the duty
of “dummying” land —in other words, who
would procure land for another person by
solemly affirming that it was for himself.
And for men of larger opportunities there
has been only one way of securing a compact
estate, and that has been by wholesale sub-
ornation of perjury—by offering induce-
ments to people open to temptation, to
perjure themselves. It may be broadly, and
We think fairly, stated that during the
last twenty years the whole influence of
the legalised system of dealing with the
public lands has been to render it im-
practicable for a rigidly conscientious man
to compete in the struggle for material pro-
gress against the man who elected to regard
perjury as no sin, or as a necessary and in-
evitable peccadillo thrust upon him by the
framers of the laws relating to real estate.
Employment in the pastoral districts has
even so generally been coupled with con-
ditions of false swearing—so distinct a pre-
ference has been given to station hands who
would not be so impracticable as to refuse
to study their master’s interest by dummy-
ing a bit of the run for him—that the strictly
truthful man who shrunk from putting
perjury on his soul has been at a complete
disadvantage. He has -been in a minority,
his principles have been derided, his mere
declaration of them has been an affront to
the society in which his lot was cast. He
must have lived in a condition of perpetual
depreciation—held in scorn and contumely
for the very virtue which kept him unpros-
perous. The picture we draw may be chal-
lenged as fanciful. We shall not contest the
impeachment, should it be made. We depre-
cate criticism by at once admitting that an
ideal purist of the kind we have imagined
may not have maintained his existence in
the whole country. In short, we are ready to
grant, if any censor of our exposition demand
such a concession, that the influence of the
land laws has been so searching and thorough
that it would be as vain to look among the
land-traffickers of New South Wales for one
individual who has kept his soul “untainted
from the world” of universal perjury which
surrounded him, as it was to look for ten just
men in Sodom and Gomorrah prior to their
destruction.
* * *
And, while the bucolic parts of the colony
have thus been educated to hold false testi-
mony in light regard, for a long period the
Legislature, with consistent wisdom, man-
aged to so arrange matters that the com-
mercial community should not be in a
position to aggravate the country population
by any too severe rigidity or delicacy of
ideas. The system of ad valorem duties did
tolerably effectually for merchants what the
system of alienation had done for courtry-
men. He could command most custom who
could sell cheapest; and he could sell
cheapest who, original cost being equal,
could pay least duty. And he could pay
least duty who could swear to the most
audaciously spurious invoices. Ergo, the
most dashing perjurer could command most
business, and attain commercial supremacy.
The system of cooked invoices grew to a
“fine art,” and when the naturally rascally
among importers threw themselves with
ardour in this avenue of fortune, merchants
originally conscientious found that they
were presented by the operation of law
with the hard alternative of seeing their
business leave them, or of fighting their dis-
honest rivals with the weapons which the
wisdom of the Legislature had brought into
use. At first reluctant, and harassed by
scruples and shame, these decent men be-
came indifferent by custom, and by a sense
of mutuality. They knew that what they
did others did, and ultimately it became by
common consent no derogation to the
character of a merchant that he complied
with “ the custom of the trade.”
* * •
Thus in the two leading sections of the
population, and among its most representa-
tive and influential individuals, a sentiment
became diffused that a strict regard for the
sanctity of an oath or a solemn declaration
is not a requisite component of the charac-
ter of an upright and virtuous man, or of a
good citizen. The universal prevalence of
perjury among the most influential and
representative did not, in fact, extinguish
virtue altogether. Habitual perjurers—in
the way of business—discharged the other
duties of life with zeal and constancy. There
were, and are, men among them whose word
—outside certain recognised lines of affairs —
was, and is, sacred. There were among
them good churchmen, good citizens, good
fathers—men estimable in all other relations
of life. Thus it has come about that there
is a very extensive sentiment that perjury is
an exceptional fault, not incompatible
with a well-ordered and generally moral,
and even religious, society, and is ex-
cusable, and even justifiable, under cer-
tain conditions. But when a principle is
abandoned for one reason, it is easily aban-
doned for another. When a high-principled
squatter-prince alleges that—ruin or sub-
ornation of perjury being the alternatives
forced upon him by vicious legislation—sub-
ornation of perjury is the choice of a sensible
man, it is not surprising that other men
apply the example and the exception, to
suit their own circumstances and dilem-
mas, and will commit perjury as freely and
readily to save their liberty or to extricate a
friend from trouble, as the squatter would
to keep his property intact, the commercial
man to preserve his business and connection,
or the bank-clerk to secure his institution
on a mortgaged run, and to make himself
solid with the Directors at the same time.
• * •
There are undoubtedly other and more
occult and radical Causes which have en-
gendered a disregard for the sanctity of an
oath in connection with Judicial proceedings
in this colony, but for the wide diffusion of
that indifference the causes we have re-
viewed are probably chiefly responsible.
Even although the nature or origin of the
evil be disputed, there is we conceive, no like-
lihood Of its prevalence being denied after the
exhibitions which have so strongly impressed
the community. Rascaldom is becoming
increasingly confident and defiant. Fraud
and Violence have learned, and are taking
the lesson more to heart every day, that
they hare got ahead of the system organised
to correct and control them. It is not only
in criminal prosecutions that the machinery
of justice breaks down, but the same thing
clogs the wheels in civil cases. The courts
have changed their nature, and have been
perverted from the design In which they
were framed. Dishonest people know that
almost anything can be accomplished by the
hard-swearing of complacent witnesses. And
it is common knowledge that even when
perjury is apparent, there is nothing so diffi-
cult to prove, and that nothing is so uuusua
as for perjury, perfectly recognised, to lead
to a prosecution. The ordinary police con-
stables will “run in,” day after day, a rab-
ble of miserables, on suspicion of “ having
no means of support,” or will arrest, with
energetic promptness, a man found in the
possession of goods “ reasonably believed to
be stolen,” or in a place with apparent “ felo-
nious intention.” But the highest officers of
the law permit obvious perjury to be thrown
in their very faces, and poured into the ears
of juries, and make no sign. Sometimes
indeed, the Judges will remark in a matter-of
fact way, that evidence in matters of fact has
been given which is irreooncileable, and that
there must have been perjury on the part of,
onesetof witnesses orof another set. Butno
constable steps forward to place his hand
upon the shoulder of the party or parties
involved, “ on suspicion of having committed
perjury.” Private prosecutions are expen-
sive, and generally discredited by their very
nature involving a presumption of malice.
And public prosecutions are almost un-
known. For one man who is prosecuted in
this colony on suspicion of perjury as a
witness, a thousand pass through the courts
DA.RON F. VON MUELLER.


UBLIC NOTICE
11, Cl, & CO.’S
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severs,
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, ana WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, 'it great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold b* leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
-BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a firm" one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age aod purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Distillers. Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BRIAN BORU
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOB
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 35 Flinders street Hast;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Greofell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Ram made hot
and taken at bed-time.
Hr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
68. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single little Dejartnenl,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
©d..
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thi most Wholesome or all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDBILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGBB PORT.
3s. per bottle.
HBNNESSY’S 3 STAR •** PALE BRANDY,
te. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney .
A Melbourne paper, ladling out praise to a
Salvation Army adaptation of a nigger minstrel
melody, goes on to observe: Mooay and Sankey
were the first to introduce in the old country and
in America the wholesale adaptation of profane
tunes to sacred purposes, but the Salvation Army
have eclipsed even them in this particular line.
As the officers of the Army would say, they are
•• taking the music from the devil and giving it to
God ” As the officers of the Army would say I No
doubt. But what about the authors of many of
these melodies ? Dare the Army crib from Sulli-
van? Not likely. He has taken the necessary
copyright precautions. The minstrels didn’t.
Therefore, their work is thieved and offered up as
spoils from Egypt.
Mr. Dickson keeps a general store in Bray-
brook, and taking Monday as a holiday he put up
the shutters and wended. Two little lads, passing
by, thought they saw a chance. They took down
the shutters, threw off their coats, and took up
their places behind the counter to wait for cus-
tomers. It was dull enough. In the first half hour
only half-a-crown came in, then another tenpence,
and then a sixpence. This wouldn’t half pay for
risks, so they took half-a-crown out of the till,
pulled on their coats, put up the shutters, and de •
parted. When Dickson returned he learned acci-
dentally from a neighbour how bis business had
been getting on, and asked the police “ to heel it.”
The Bench was captivated by the originality of the
enterprise, and thought 14 days “up” would meet
the requirements of justice.
There was a time when a man down at
Creswlck, Vic., was hearty and gay and strong.
But he began to grow weak, and lost his sprightn
ness, and moped about. Next, he began to pray
next, he began to preach. The weaker he grew
in body, the louder he grew in voice. He bawleu
his prayers, he bellowed his sermons. Large crowds
flocked after him. His elocution and anecdotal
power were said to surpass those of Ribbonist
Booth. It was believed by many that a new
apostle had'arisen. But, at last, a doctor had to be
brought. The doctor examined him, and found
that the anecdotal power and elocution were
evolved from the conditions of the humours of his
body, that his weakness and emaciation were also
traceable to these humours, and that these humours
were the outcome of an infernally bad liver. 80 it
appears. By the way, how is Booth ?
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 24b.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d. —In advance.
The Advertising Rates are 5s. per Inch j
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. pei
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise
raents ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 36 pei
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony ma be sent, if more convenient.
arrested on suspicion of theft or vagrancy,
or some other petty crime.
• • *
A burglary or a murder seta ail the police
of the country in eager and agitated motion.
The mere rumour of a burglary, ot bruit of
a murder, Sets the forces of detection agog.
Obvious perjury is daily committed without
any officer of the State appearing concerned
in the faintest Now, we contend
that from burglars and murderers the com-
munity suffers scarcely at all. M6re men
and women are killed in the streets by
chance in one year than are murdered in ten.
And what is lost by burglary or robbery
with violence is not one ten thousandth part
of what is annually stolen by Fraud, or
wrongfully procured by false swearing id
civil suits.
• • •
Our legal institutions are hopelessly
behind the age. They are focussed on the
offences and practices of a century ago. An
they still cumbrously revolve, having loi
their pivot the worn-out and now unwork-
able assumption that the bare idea of brea
ing an oath sworn solemnly has terrors for
the consciences of men. This reliance upen
a central theory-once true, but now abso-
lutely false—throws the whole judicial
machine out of gear, so that it habitually
crushes the true man, and delivers his spoils
into the hands of rogues. We assert that
more plunder is effected, more grievous
wrongs wrought, and more injury done to
society in general, by the operation of pei-
jury in courts of law, than is effected by the
old-fashioned burglars and thieves, and out-
purscs and poisoners, and other murderers,
all combined. We insist that the officers
who are maintained to detect and repress
crime are mis-employed, and that instead of
being set on the scent of every stupid thief
who breaks into a store, or strips a drunkard
of a watch and purse, they should be set
without fail to establish grounds for prose-
cution of every witness who gives in the
box as much cause to suspect his veracity,
a? a shabby rough, skulking at dusk with a
hand-bag or a cudgel, does to occasion sus-
picion that he means cracking a crib or a
crown.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Moan with, a Menace.
»• titE Bitter Cry of Outcast London,” which caused
considerable stir on Its publication, is by no means
a pretentious work, and certainly not a sensations,
one. It is a simple pamphlet of 30 pages, written
for and published by the London Congregational
Union, a body whose missionaries have penetrated
the slums, at the constant risk of violence and
disease from those they go to seek—“the abject
poor.” It is a simple statement of “ how the poor
live-” but gives nothing like the complete infor-
mation to bo found In G. B. Sims’s book of that
name. It proclaims that “ seething in the very
centre of our great cities, concealed by the thin-
nest crust of civilization and decency, is a vast
mass of moral corruption, of heartbreaking miser y
and absolute godlessness. . . . Whilst wo have
been building our churches and solacing our-
selves with our religion, and dreaming that the
mlllonium was coming, the poor have been
growing poorer, the wretched more miserable,
and the immoral more corrupt .... So
far from making the worst of our facts for the
purpose of appealing to emotion, we have been
compelled to tone down everything, and wholly
omit what most needs to be known, or the ears
and eyes of our readers would have been insuffer-
ably outraged.” Yet enough is told. How tens
of thousands are crowded in lanes and alleys more
pestilential than the nigger slave-ships of old, the
reeking air poisoned with sewage, refuse and
fever laden gases, where fresh breeze, sun, clean
water are never known. Staircases, passages,
courts rotten with filth and vermin, which exude
and creep through walls and floors, Seven people
starving in an underground cellar with a dead
child putrefying in their midst; a woman con-
fined in a cellar while her children run naked
roundpier, and her husband lies down with the
small pox by her side; a family of six in one room
while two of them are ill with scarlet fever. And
there is competition even for such rooms
as these I And scarcely a tenant dies, or
leaves, or is turned out, but the rent is raised
and raised. Honest people consort with the
vilest criminals; they have no ehoice. Marriage is
unknown among the “abject poor;” their lives
are those of the beasts. Who can wonder that the
public house is an Elysian field ? Incest Is com-
mon; no form of sensuality or vice causes sur-
prise ; in one small area 43 houses contained 438
prostitutes; children are taught to steal as soon as
walk, and beaten if unsuccessful. People fancy
the song of the shirt old-fashioned now. Women
finish trousers at 3>j»d. a pair, and earn a shilling a
day. But the day is seventeen hours, from 5 in the
morning till ten at night, and eating as they stitch.
Tenpenco a dozen for making men’s shirts; sack-
making, a farthing each. In one place a dead
Infant was dissected in the one room where its
parents and brothers and sisters lived, because
there was no mortuary. The jurymen on the in-
quest sickened. “ Men and women daily work in
their dying agonies to find bread for their children;
and men and women lie day by day in their wretched
Single rooms, in hunger and cold, waiting without
comfort, without hope, until God curtains their
eyes with the merciful film of death." That,
reader, is how the abject poor live in the city of
London, under a Queen who was much distressed
to discover that Brown’s legs were chafed by his
wet kiltl We are not throwing the blame on her:
It’s only an anomaly. And why do they live so ?
So that Divbs may increase his wealth, reap richer
harvests from their necessity, rack-rent to the last
farthing the wretched tenants who have nowhere
else to go, and yet must live while they can. Most
pf these districts belong to the nobility of Eng-
land, of whom, perhaps, the Marquis of West-
minster is the largest holder of such city property.
Of course, vested interests are against dny ref orm;
these noisome hovels pay incredibly well. But it
will come some day. The State must look to the
iniquitous traffic, and secure for the abject poor,
oven, the right to live in something better than
lover dens; the right to live as something better
than the uncleanest of brute beasts. Yes, or the
Bitter Cry will turn to such a fierce one as has not
been heard since it rose in the streets of Paris
in 1789. •
The Rum, slightly more crapulous than usual—
perhaps the eifect of the enthronement lunch-
hiccups thusly;—“ We know we must look to the
Churches, not to the State, for the noblest elements
of the civilisation which all true Britons desire to
see upbuilt in Australia.” To the Churches ? For
what, oh Rum ? For independence of thought ?
for manliness and liberty of life ? for toleration r
for individuality ? For what, for what, O most
ridiculous Rum ? Why, even for Christianity one
is but a fool to look to the Churches. The
Churches, God help them! buttress the obsolescent
social systems, which produce “ gorged indolence
and famished Industry”; and maintain under vary-
ing names and disguises tbat accursed thing
priestcraft—which—
“ Against the mouth divine
Pushes its sponge of poison yet;
And bitter blood for myrrh and wine,
And on the same reed is it set,
Wherewith before it buffeted
The Peoples’ disanointed head.”
Humanity is looking for a time when Reason shall
be Lord on this side the blue, and the delirious Rum
shrieks out to it—“Look to the Churches; look to
the Churches! ” Alas! Humanity has looked that
way, and seen too much of superstition and pre-
sumption and class privilege and worship paid to
baseness in high places and turning away from
those fallen among thieves, and squandering on
carven crosses and mummery, and denying to
human misery, and cant, and hypocrisy, and cring-
ing, and slavery and lies. It is to scientific educa-
tion, not to creeds nor to Churches.that we must
look, though possibly the Churches as seen at a
banquet through the pink medium of the cham-
pagne glass may look all lovely, all coulcuv dc tosc •
Among a vast amount of balderdash indulged in
by the southern Press on the occasion of the Bight
Hours’ Celebration, not the least absurd were the
comparisons made between the working hours of
the artisan and those of his employer, and of pro-
fessional men in general. It is true that sixty
hours a week barely cover the working time of the
employer and professional man, if averages be
looked at, but to compare the artisan’s forty-four
hours with that sixty, and to sound the timbrel
thereupon over the thrice happy fortune of the
manual labourer, is to make ridiculous the atti-
tude of the working man, and to turn his enthu-
siastic celebration into a huge burlesque.
In the abstract, forty-four hours a week
is too little for a man to devote to work. Until
his generation has blossomed about him, the em-
ployer or professional man cannot afford himself
such a luxury. But in the concrete, in the social
system in which we live, the artlzan’s wages foi
his day’s work is simply the measure of his day’s
needs. He has found, by a trying experience, tbat
long hours do not make long pay. He works
almost solely for a subsistence, and as he has no
more to expect, he simply obeys the Instinct of
self-preservation in reducing his working hours to
something like an equivalent for the privilege of
living. With the employer and professional man
it is altogether different. Those, unless the lines
are very hard, do not give more than forty-four
hours a week, if so much, for a subsistence; and if
they give more, it is with the expectation that
when the generation around them has blossomed,
their blossoms will be seen very high up. Some-
thing like that.
We referred, a couple of weeks ago, to a letter
which we had received from Tam worth, and which,
over the signature S. Josephs— which is the name
of the editor of the Tamworth News— invited us
to “slate Hooke ” for certain articles which were
published in the Tamworth Independent, of
which we believe Mr. Hooke Is editor. Our re-
sponse to this invitation was publication of the
letter, and an expression of willingness to pull the
nose of the person who offered us the role of
literary bravo. It turns out that the letter was a
forgery, and, consequently, to Mr. Josephs the
appearance of our paragraph was, naturally, a
great shock, and Intensely irritating. After the
first explosion of his annoyance, Mr. Josephs has
so candidly recognised the spirit which actuated us
in repudiating the insolent proposal made to us
that we cannot allow him to get ahead of us
in good-feeling. His handwriting in no way re-
sembles that of the letter which is signed with his
name and written by the same hand which signed
it, and wo are eatisffed that the letter in question
emanated from some scoundrel who had a grudge
against Mr. Josephs, to whom we certainly owe an
apology, although of course our remarks were
levelled at the person who was capable of writing
a letter such as wo received, and are in no way
applicable to a gentleman who wrote no such
letter. Wo regret extremely the annoyance to
which Mr. Josephs has been subjected and repeat
publicly what we have already communicated to
him privately, our willing apologies for the pain
which our paragraph,—of which, in all other
respects except the misadventure which made it
seem to apply to the wrong man, we are ptoud—
has brought upon him.
Baron Von Mueller.
BarHn Ferdinand Von Mueller, whose portrait
appears on our front page, is in the very front
rank of living botanists. In pursuit of his beloved
science he has traversed more than 27.000 miles
of Australian ground, gathering and classifying
plants from the rich alluvial flats of Northern
Queensland to the wild fastnesses of the Australian
Alps. He was born In Rostock on the Baltic in
1826, studied at Kiel, spent seven years in botanical
investigation in Schleswig and Holstein, and,
when quite a young man, came to South Aus-
tralia, where, in 1852-having previously travelled
through most of the settled districts of the
colony—he accepted the position of Government
Botanist. During the four succeeding years he
was constantly on the move, accompanied!Gre-
gory’s seventeen months’ expedition, and, return-
ing to Melbourne, became Director of the Botani-
cal Gardens there. These Gardens —at that time
almost in a state of nature—he quickly raised to a
high place among similar institutions in other and
older lands. It was while there that he compiled
his magnum opus, the “ Fragmenta Phy tographue
Australia?,” containing a description of all the new
plants discovered by him and his numerous cor-
respondents. During 17 years he examined and
described more than 100,000 specimens. But the
satisfaction given by his labours was not universal.
Nobody denied his zeal—no one challenged his
scientific attainments. In these he was unassail-
able. But it was whispered that he was not a
landscape-gardener —a profession, by the way, to
which, so far as we are aware, he never laid claim
—aad that, while the Botanical Gardens were
almost unique, from a scientific standpoint, they
were not all that could be desired as a place of
popular resort. A long controversy followed,
which sometimes came within measurable distance
of acrimony. The end was that the Baron had to
part with a portion of his jurisdiction to men who,
however versed in ornamental gardening, could
not fairly lay claim to a tithe of his scientific
knowledge. The affair caused a good deal of dis-
cussion at the time, many thinking the great
botanist harshly treated after his many years
devotion. We could say a good deal more of
Baron von Mueller, but space presses. He has
orders from most European Sovereigns, and is an
honorary member of more than 200 scientific
societies. Nor is it in botany alone that he excels*
His scientific knowledge may be described as
encyclopaedic, and he is one of the very few Aus-
tralian colonists, whose place among the world’s
scientific peerage is assured and undisputed.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“D. Barrett” (Maryborough, Q.): We don’t
understand your question. By “ the most stored
building In Sydney” do you mean the building
with tne greatest number of storeys, or with the
largest storing capacity ?.. .“Northern Territory :
5Tou are right and we were wrong in last issue in
locating Palmerston in Queensland. We will mind
our P.’s and Q.’s better Henceforth... “ Crozier :
The symbolism involved in the episcopal use of
the pastoral staff is that the right reverend bearer
means to have the loaves and Ashes by hook or by
crook “Wollongong” : Not worth a cent. You
are well-meaning, no doubt, but you are weak-
much like teetotal tea—“ C. D. A.” : What you
send is not “good enough ; ” not because there is
not sufficient meaning in it but because there is too
much—double meaning in fact...." A. J. I'.
(Charters Towers): Very much obliged L.A.
P”: Thanks. We have used the item. But the
information is not startlingly new. What is though?
Hardly anything “ Trawalla ” : Many thanks.
If you have any more items send them along.
You might also get your grandfather to send us
something sprightly occasionally. Itdoesn t matter
it he ia dead. We like anything racy of the soil
“Constant Header”: We were slightly in error
last week. We are so often in the right that we
can afford to admit this. We said that “ the Aus-
tralian Mutual Provident have a distinct proviso
that they will not pay the insurance on a suicide,
suoc or insane.” It appears that this society docs
pay insurance on suicides—after they have been
Insured thirteen months. Our error is excusable.
When we wrote we had not committed suicide
sufficiently often to be familiar with the facts. By
the way, it strikes us here that a good thing might
be made in insuring small newspapers-a good
thing for the newspapers. Think of Sydney
Punch. Dead and not insured. If it had been
Insured it Avould have been at last worth some-
thing. But it was not to be—“ Viola”: The last
we heard of Bandmann and Baudet, they were in
Chicago, U.S.A “Solo on the Cymbals”: Re-
ceived. Will read for next week, if suitable —
“Maud”: Thanks “Lance Lenton”: Very
laggedlrhyrte. Willseeif it will stand touching up.
. .7. Barringun”: Not good enough. The tact
that one poor devil has a hook nose and a short
chin, that another has a moustache, and that both
find it hard to make a living these hard times, are
insufficient reasons for caricaturing them. You
mistake, altogether. We have no taste lor the
Herod business—the slaughter of innocents. Our
game are malefactors-the hypocrites, frauds, pre-
tenders, dunces, and humbugs who stop the way
of progress and obstruct thu general good. We d
far rather rub down you who want your acquaint-
ance held up as laughing-stocks, for no reason
that we can see, than we would annoy them—in-
offensive people, so far as we know.
“Maori” (W.D.P.), author of “A Month’s
Holiday ”: Kindly favour us with a call, or by
sending address.


DENOMINATIONAL DROPS
Dean Cowper “addressed” last week by
the clergy of the Sydney diocese. Much mutual
admiration.
When the Apostles’ Creed was intoned at
the recent enthronement of the Anglican Primate
half the prelates and clergy adopted the eastern
attitude, the remainder loosing sou’ west. Strange
that there should such difference be ’twixt looking
S.W. and looking B. Latitudlnarians a.sert that
the difference is not material, but merely Occi-
dental.
“ The Bishop was conveyed to the build-
ing in the Governor’s carriage, which was pre-
ceded by three orderlies.” Thus the S.M. Herald
in its account of the proceedings at the enthrone-
ment of the Bishop of Sydney. Of course, His
Excellency the Governor can lend his carriage to
whom he pleases, but how about those orderlies ?
Who authorised them to officially escort a gentle-
man whose footing in the State is simply that of a
private individual ?
Primate Barry opines that a new reredos
at St. Andrew’s is greatly needed. And what is a
reredos ? Well, a reredos is an altar-screen, i.e., a
back to the altar of carved stone or wood. The
puzzle is how an altar screen can be “greatly
needed ” in a Cathedral appertaining to a denomi-
nation which, in 1663, deliberately struck out the
word “altar” from its Prayer Book, wheresoever
it was found in the rubrick, substituting therefor
“the Lord’s Table.” We can tell Bishop Barry
what are greatly more needed at the Cathedral
than a reredos—humility and the Grace of God.
Joseph Symes, the Melbourne Freethinker,
was lecturing in a little town on the Gippsland
Lakes recently. He told the hop-pickers a lot of
things they never heard before. He said a man
has the same number of ribs as a woman. This
startled the hop-pickers. They went outside to
count. But when they had totted up each other's
ribs, they went about looking for women to test
the truth of the statement Nobody in the town
slept that night, and the local paper asseverated
next day that the hop-pickers should throw the
villaneous hereslarch in a horsepond. No fear,
Joseph. If they did that they’d have to pay for
burying you, and, although they d like to kill you,
they’re not game to stand toe subsequent ex-
pense.
Bishop Moorhouse had the “ savez ” to see
that the “empty ceremonial” of an episcopal
enthronement challenged explanation, but al-
though he asserted dogmatically tnat such a cere-
monial was of paramount Importance in regard to
Unity, he said not one word in in his slangy speech
anent “bolting,” “jibbing,” and “slogging that
could be said to be explanatory of the absurd and
formal rite. There is consistency in the action of
the Roman Catholic hierarchy whensoever it per-
forms the ceremony of episcopal enthronement,
since the throne is the outward and visible sign of
the authority claimed by the vicars of Christs
Vicar In the Anglican Church the throne
actually symbolises the presumptuous clerical
assumption against which she is supposed to be
Protestant.
Primate Barry has commenced to beg to
the old. old tune-” We (that is the Priestly Caste)
want more who will not give merely the waif and
stray eut of their abundance and superfluity, but
will give of their substance to the work of God.
•> We ” want coin, coin, coin. For the relief of the
wretched ? No 1 But for making “ our present
Cathedral s mething like adequate to °ur
present needs ; and for enabling our clergy to
bo comfortably off among the rich. To he poor
among the poor,” is a thing not to he thought for
a minister of Him who associated with the poor.
The clergyman ought to be free from the cares
and anxieties of life which come from narrow, in-
sufficient means, therefore, dearly beloved in the
Lord, fork out your shiners, and remember that
he that ante-eth not up to the Church in this world
Anathema Maranathah in the next. Shove around
with the plates while the choir discourses the
ancient ecclesiastical chant ' Quocunque moao
rem.”
The late Monsignor Lynch, when he
stepped out, held “ dumps” to the value of £40,00U.
But ho never showed his hand when alive, and
here’s the style the Tasmanian Catholic Stan-
dard bucks at the dead Monsignor: Quite re-
cently, a young clergyman of these colonies was
prostrated by one of the ordinary ‘ evils to which
flesh is heir.’ Did not ‘ kind friends and true
come to his rescue, the wards of th« public hos-
pital would be his abode, and the cold hand of the
.Stranger would bathe his brow, and smooth his
pillow. In other countries, and in other climes,
this is not the case. There, the sacrifices made by
the poor priests are appreciated ; there they are
not compelled to make purses for themselves ;
there, they have no poverty-stricken old age to
look forward to,” That’s rough on the clerical
Dives here, who hang on to their cheque-books
until the undertaker has driven the last screw in
their dark coffin-lids, before they cave in and yield
up their beloved hoardings. And, even then, they
“will” their pile, not to poverty-stricken priests
or the starving poor, but to pampered prelates
like themselves, or to some useless institution that
can afford to give them a good fat advertisement
as a passport to the heavenly kingdom that they’re
bound for.
Dean Cowper, who is a sour Puritan at
heart, must have been sore vexed in soul at having
to present the Anglican Primate with that ritual-
istic ecclesiastical ornament, a pastoral staff. What
he would have done in the way of bucking, God
alone knows, had it been his duty to crown the
bishop with a mitre. By the byo, why didn’t the
bishops present wear the “ornaments of their
glory ?”—
HornSd mitre that represents
Full knowledge in both testaments ;
Gloves that beene all newe and white
Handlynge the sacraments aright;
Crosyer staff thatplaynly showes
Reducing of the strayed ewes ?
Only Bishop Turner bore his pastoral staff, and
monstrously funny he looked with it. Perhaps it's
as well the crowd of prelates didn’t carry their
crooks, else their appearance might have raised
the thought that they were come out against their
Master, as against a thief -with staves.
Bishop Moorhouse would have us believe
that he yearns for unity, yet ’tie not so many days
ago since he announced that owing to the opinion
of certain ecclesiastical barristers in London he
felt himself precluded from authorising any minis-
ter or member of a denomination other than the
Church of England to preach in any church or
chapel of the Church of England. As Dr. Moor-
house must know perfectly well that British eccle-
siastical law is ultra tires beyond tba United King-
dom, it does seem very inconsistent on his part for
him to attach such importance to an opinion based
on it as to cause him to subordinate his cravings
for spiritual union to an allegiance which is de-
manded of him neither by common sense nor tho
spirit of any canonical vow, nor anything else
save a sentiment so pragmatical in character as
not to deserve to be called a sentiment. The joke
is that in th ? mother country the law as laid down
by the aforesaid barristers Is practically a dead
letter. As the Melbourne Age correctly points
out, "the late Dean Stanley of Westminster more
than once set the precislanists atdeilance, and even
a higher dignitary (namely. Bishop Wordsworth
of Lincoln) has erred in the same direction. The
former allowed a Unitarian to occupy his pulpit,
and the latter admitted a Greek Archoishop to the
privileges of his cathedral. If this can be lawfully
done in England by liberal-minded churchmen and
clergymen, the question suggests itself why the
innovation may not be repeated here ?” To this
query, can it be possible that the right answer is
“ Bishop Moorhouse would run with the hare and
hold with the hounds; yearn for unity, yet take
care that in tho churches of his own diocese the
unity shall strictly conform to Anglicanism—pay
lip-service to liberalism yet take order that a rigid
conservatism shall govern the use to which Angli-
can pulpits are put in the diocese of Melbourne ” ?
One never knows where to have a bishop.
H. D. Traill’s “Six Sonnets of Contrast”:
(1.) What the Fathers Found, (3) What the Sons
ETnd, (3) According to Arminius, (4) According to
Calvin, (5) Theism, (6) Pantheism, are marvel-
lously incisive and epigrammatic. “ According to
Calvin ” —
“ He planned to damn the many by the Fall,
And by the Sacrifice to save the few . . .
Believe it though thy spirit mutinies ;
Believe it though thy riven heart have cried
‘Lord I see my tender child I be these thy ways
That it shall lisp Our Father at ray side.
And ripen for damnation as it prays ?’ ”
That’s good work in cameo-cutting ; and so is this
bit of “ What the Fathers Found, ’ especially that
portion of it beginning “ with some puzzles”:—
“ All these our Fathers found—transcendent
Power,
Unerring Art and unhonzoned Love
In nature —with some puzzles which an hour
Of sound apologetics would remove.”
Freauson’s Weekly of Adelaide thus gets
on to a Rev. Mr. Green, who, “ at a clerical meeting
the other day, took upon himself to say what
course in politics the Almighty would take if He
were at present on earth—that is, he told his
hearers, what God would do, if on earth, with the
Bible in school reading. We pronounce this utter-
ance to be rank blasphemy. How dare a puny
creature like Mr. Green say what God would do if
on earth ? How does Mr. Green know ? Who
informed him ; and when and where? Was he in-
formed verbally or in writing, and by night or in
the daytime ? And in a dream or in revelation ?
The truth is that such utterances as the reverend
gentleman’s ought to be scouted, and treated with
contempt. If you were to listen to the utterances
of any Bishop of the Roman Catholic Church, he
would pronounce quite differently from Mr.
Green as to what God Almighty would do
if on earth. Those Bishops would probably
say that the first thing to which God would direct
His attention would bo to send fire and sword, and
sweep from earth such heretics and schismatics as
the Rev. Mr. Green. Now, which is most likely to
be correct? Mr. Green, who says the Almighty
would busy himself with tho Bible in school
question ? or the Bishops, who would say that He
would sweep Mr. Green away as the gardener digs
out and burns weeds? We commend this view of
tho question to the reverend gentleman, and those
who listened to such rubbish without instantly and
emphatically protesting.” This reminds us of a
Yankee wo once knew, who was always com-
plaining that the world was wrongly constructed.
“ Had I been present,” he was wont to say, “ when
the Lord made this earth I could have suggested
various improvements that would be appreciated
by the human family of to-day.” But, after all, it
isn’t the fault of the world ; it’s the people in it,
some of whom, should they die and find them-
selves safe in heaven, would grumble at the lit or
their halo.
The prospectus of thereligion of the coming
man has just been issued by a Mr. James Parton, of
the Nineteenth Century Club, New York, and the
principal part of his preamble runs as follows: —
“Religion has to carry such a load of absolute
belief that it no longer has any regenerating
power over the educated classes. The coming
man will have a theory of the universe, bnt his
religion will not. He will regard the subject as
secular. Above all he will insist that no
theory of the universe and no other con-
viction of the mind can have in it any
moral quality whatever, can be honourable or
odious, right or wrong. The proper religion for
an American citizen is the United States of
America—this sublime experiment of freedom and
equality—the best hope of the human race. To be
a good American will be the coming man’s
religion.” Just so. All good Americans when
they die go to Paris, and after undergoing a purga-
torial time there they are promoted to New Cale-
donia, from which they, in course of time, escape
and soar on angels wings to the highest heaven of
all, Australia. Farther along, Mr. Partons chat
becomes less cheery, for he says—“The future
religion will have as many hells in it as Dante's
‘Inferno.’” Every vice has its peculiar hell;
every defect of character a possible perdition. Do
I believe in hell? Wo are all in hell now. Are we
not, every hour, expiating the sins of our ances-
tors ? And do not most of us go on committing
sins which our descendants will have to expiate in
aprony and shame ? You incontinent, sensual hus-
bands—you fathers steeped in tobacco and alcohol
and given to anger—the child you dote upon will
suffer hell for your offences when you are dust
This is the true hell—the only one that will ever
agaf n have power either to frighten or deter intel-
ligent persons. Liberals must organize. If I join
my neighbors going to church, I come home on the
swear. The Roman Catholic service is drama, or
opera, according to the modes of representation,
and suitable “ dramas, nobly played on Sunday
mornings by the members of the coming Church,
will exalt, instruct, inspire and cheer the whole
people. If you wish to put any religion down,
there is but one wav to do it—put a fitter one in its
place.” There is a heap of truth in that last re-
mark, but we regret to find Mr. Parton’s new
religion, (which by the way Is as old as the Ark)
makes no mention whatever of the style of faith
that will be practised by the ladies. This is another
Injustice to the “ faymale six,” and the Jaynil Dan
might to see to it “ immajitiy.”
The Anglican Incumbent of Christ’s
Church Queanbeyan (one J. A. Ross) has fallen out
with the local O’Neill, and this is how the latter
pitches into his pastor per favour of the Q. Gale:
—“ Mr. Ross states that once out of the twice that
I was at the parsonage he showed me the door. A
more unmixed lie was never uttered. On one occa-
sion while at the parsonage he and I had some words
about the three-stroke mode of ringing the bell,
when Mr. Ross observed. “ Remember, Mr. O Neill
I am the incumbent, and will have the bell rung
as I please, and don’t want to be catechised.
(" Campanologised ’’ would have been the better
word). Remember, I am in my own house. ’ Im-
mediately on hearing this I rose from my chair,
took my hat, and bade Mr. Ross good day, telling
him as I left that when we had church matters to
talk over again it should not he in the parsonage,
whereupon Mr. Ross asked me to remain—an
invitation well meant at the time, but which I de-
clined .... Again: According to his idea, I
degraded myself by going to meet the late Arch-
bishop Vaughan, while he himself offered house
accommodation to his Grace, and would have
cleaned his boots if his invitation had been ac-
cepted. Speaking of truth and veracity, can a
minister be respected who boldly tells us that a
set of studs, probably purchased in Paddy s Market
for eighteen pence, were in his family since the
reign of Elizabeth, they having been given by that
sovereign to the house of Ross ? or fhat a certain
mongrel dog, the gift of a Double Bay butcher,
had been sent out from England to him by Lord
■■■ (I forget his name) as a present ? Mr. Ross
will to his sorrow find out that a lie stands on one
leg, while the truth stands on two.” This is very
sad especially since ’tis but a brief while ago that
the Ross land the 0‘Neil were as thick as—ahem.
By way of a diversion on Ross’s part w« now give
his reverence’s version of the story. Here
it is, fresh from his Christian pen:—“Having
returned from the vicarage I found that I
had left behind me certain papers and cheques,
and returning for them saw the afore-named
persons leaving tho church ground in a
straggling fashion. Having secured my papers,
&c., and smarting under the imputation of Mr.
O’Neil that I desired to adjourn the mettlng to
have ‘a clique’ around me, I arrested his pro-
gress before he got out of the ground. ‘ Mr.
O’Neil I wait,’ I cried, to which that person res-
ponded * do you want to speak to me ? ’
* Yes,’ I said, ‘ and I wish all present to hear
what I say. You have been an enemy to me
ever since I came to the parish, and to-day
you have insulted me, but I assure you that I
am no coward if you are, nor need I resort to
the use of clique.” To which Mr. O'Neill replied
that I was a scoundrel, and, handling his stick in a
fidgety fashion, informed me that I was on
‘ church ground,’ and invited mo to ‘ come outside
and hear what he had to say,’ to which I replied,
1 It would be a bad job for you if I did, as 1 should
knock your head off.’ Then came the language
tor which Mr. O’Neill is so celebrated, interspersed
with cursing. I was a ‘ liar ’ of a certain class, and
“a scoundrel ’ of the same class, and he was no
coward, to which I replied, ‘ You are a coward and
a traitor—a man who has bowed down to bush-
rangers, and lowered the honour of his Queen
and country, is only a coward and a traitor.’ I left
them amidst a fusilade of oaths.” A good slip of
“ Christian advice ” of a similar stamp follows this
lot, and, taking a bird’s-eye view of the whole—
for we have not time tq. enter into the Christian
beauty of the details—we should advise the stal-
wart incumbent to shake the dust off his feet as
far as Queanbeyan is concerned, and, say. Join the
Miller-Foley troupe as an “ emergency man.” In
this line he would shine, and have the opportunity
of “ putting a head ” on anyone as well as “ knock-
ing it off.” It seems to us this move is quite in-
cumbent on the part of the bellicose incumbent
of—what ? Yes —Christ Church I
• • •
Wesleyan Parson Bellhouse of Gunning
passed in his checks last week Although Pri-
mate Barry is from Cantabriglte yet (like many
1 other from the same old spot) professional cant
can’t abridge he....Camillo dl Pietro, Cardinal
Bishop and Dean of the Sacred College, died, aged
78, nominated to the eardlnalate In ’53 A. Peter
Hasson, Cardinal-priest and Patriarch of Cilicia,
dead, aged 59, nominated to the eardlnalate in ’80.
First Armenian cardinal.
The London World alleges that Sir W. J.
Clarke’s daughter is to be married to Mr. E. F.
Tylecote, the cricketer. In July.
Mrs. Mix, of Steamboat Rock, Cedafi
Rapids, took a neat little way of mix-ing herself
up with her “ hub ” in death, as In life. When they
slid the “ ole man ” into his grave, she remarked
that there wasn’t any use bothering about digging
another one for her, drew a shooter, put a bullet
through her brain, her body into the open grave',
and her soul, God only knows where. She’d have
done better to have stayed at home and freezed on
to the “ other chap.”
It is said that Mrs, Millionaire Mackay
lately shocked Parisian society by showing up in a
white velvet dress, trimmed all over with robin-
red-breast’s wings, her shoes being completely
covered with the little victims’ toes. These shoos
were of red velvet, her enormous train being also
bordered with feathers of a similar hue. The dress
was Princess shape, with a Wattean back, and was
sufficiently decollite to make even the anything but
prudish dames of the French capital blush.
A DIFFERENCE).
A young man’s heart is easily mended.
And when Love will smite it, it heals again,
For a new dream buds from the old dream ended*
And a new sun dries up the late cold rain.
But an old man’s heart will never recover,
But will pine away till his eyes grow dim,
Therefore, 0 maid of the grey-headed lover
(I am grey-headed), take pity on him I
One of our Debating Societies in the West,
having at last successfully wrestled with the dread
questions as to which was the greater novelist*
Thackeray, or Dickens, and which lives the long-
est, a blacksmith, or a shoemaker, has chosen for
the subject of its next Jaw-Jaw meeting the rather
startling query: “ Are the young females of
Australia fitted by their present style of life for
becoming mothers of the future race 7 ” That’s
too tough a conundrum for us to catch on t&
until the weather cools a little, but in the mean-
time we respectfully suggest that the matter la
somewhat premature, and it would be better to
first discuss whether our girls are fitted to become
wives before becoming mothers. At least tbat'fi
the way it strikes us at present.
Removing the Hon. Member.
As It Might Have Been.
As It Was.


Personal Items
Maria Taglioni, Countess of Voisins, dead :
daughter of Filippo Taglionl, ballet-master; born
at Stockholm, 1804; first appeared as a danseuse at
Vienna in 1833. Her great success was in her
father’s ballet " La Sylphide.” She married Count
Gilbert de Voisins fn 1847, when she retired i rom
the stage; lost all her property during Franoo-
Prussian war; after which disaster she lived in
London, earning a living by teaching deportment.
She could caper some, and was not, as Granny
states, formerly well-known as a French “ operatic
artiste.” As we have said, she was an Italian hop-
erratic artiste.
The Bungaree shire Council are economical
to an extent; and they have some primitive
methods of working out their theories. One of
their theories seems to be that if you go about
their cemetery you should stay there altogether.
That notion was illustrated the other day. The
Rev. Henry Richardson went there, and he and
his horse went over an embankment. He had his
arm fractured and his nose spoiled for choir pur-
noses. His means for general good were also
seriously damaged. A preacher with his nose In
a sling cannot hope to bo highly efleotive w hile
discantlng on the joys 9f Paradise, Besides, to a
man who is anything of a Methodist at heart, the
nose is an indispensable organ of speech. It is
through it he starts the hymn that preludes the
opening of the porphyry gates. The Rev. Rlchard-
son is therefore wroth and threatens the Council
with an action for damages. But the Council aver
that had their method been carried out in its in-
tegrity ho would not now be sensible of these dis-
figurements. He would be altogether in the ceme-
tery.
One of those doubly interesting notices
that first catch the eye in the Herald tells the
world that a recent bride, in addition to having a
father, is niece of two Captains and a Lieutenant-
Colonel, grand-daughter of a General, and “ great
grand-daughter of the late sixth Earl of Lauder-
dale ” The notice indicates about the most
desperate struggle to be reckoned among the
aristocracy we have yet seen. And it is curious to
sea people so anxious to let the world know their
connection with such a lineage. The most cele-
brated Earl of Landerdale known to history is
d “crlbed as a big blustering man, “whose head
of red thatch held lots of linguistic learning, and
whose thick tongue spluttered passionate saliva in
torrents on ail -a member of the Cabal
Ministry, “who earned a disgraceful notoriety by
selling their country to a French monarch.” Of
course, this is not the late sixth Earl who has been
dragged in to give eclat to the charming bride.
Wobablv his “ great-grand-father.” But he s
an EarL anyhow, and to be related to him is evi-
dently a distinction of some sort.
If the Claimant (bless him! ) were only
permitted to beguile the tedium of prison life with
certain extracts from Australian papers, how the
plump togue would smile, to be sure. The Mel-
bourne D. T., now, has been telling us a story
about an oil painting representing the Tichbourne
trial, which attracted the attention of an old resi-
dent of Victoria. This old resident, who is,
furthermore, an “cx-Minister of the Crown,
appears to have been one among the many who
gave money to Tichborne when the Osprey
brought him to Sandridge thirty years ago, so of
course he ought to know something about that
nobleman. Well, the ex-Minister (according to
the D. T.) was looking at the big picture, when he
pointed to the claimant and said (so innocently)
*•I don’t know who that may be, but he Is the man
who landed from the Osprey in 1854. The features
are exactly the same, but he was thinner then,
although I cannot mistake him.” And yet, as the
D. T. pathetically remarks, “ notwithstanding this
wonderful identification from a counterfeit pre-
sentment, it is highly improbable that the Tich-
borne case will be reopened.” Yes it is, most
highly improbable, for we must remind the ex-
Minister that in addition to gazing at the “ counter-
feit presentment ” of “ the man who landed from
the Osprey in 1854,” he was also contemplating an
excellent likeness of a man, who “ within the ten
years of Roger’s disappearance, didn’t know how to
spell “Tichborne" was utterly ignorant of French,
which Roger spoke better than English), was un-
acquainted with the locality of the family estates,
and in fact, knew nothing at all except how to
slaughter cattle. And, as wo have previously
stated, during the years that the Tichborne case
was on the tapis, not the slightest proof could be
produced that the aforementioned Osprey ever
existed, much less that It picked no anyone from
the Bell. But we forget—Jean Liue (who was
“ doing time ” in 1854) gave a most circumstantial
account of the whole affair.
Salmi Morse, the Passion Play crank, has
recently been fished up out of the East River,
New York,—“a demnltlon dead body,” as Mr.
Mantellnl would say—but whether be went to the
water and drowned himself, or whether the water
came to him and did the deed, the crowner’s quest
evidence falls to show. Salmi’s great “ fad ” was
to produce a dramatized version of the life and
death of Christ, modelled after the famous Miracle
Play of Oberammergan, in Bavaria. The Passion
Play was Salmi’s own production ; he claimed to
bo familiar with all the Oriental tongues, and
always declared he had translated his work from
old manuscripts found in a monastery on the
Mount of Oliver, Palestine ; hut as Salmi has never
been nearer to the Holy Land than Chicago, and
couldn’t speak even English grammatically, his
assertions were looked upon by some persons
with a certain amount of suspicion. Of course
the clergy sat down on poor Morse and his play
with a force of 2401b. to the square inch, and
although he persuaded some other lunatic to
build him a theatre specially for the “ Pas-
sion ” production, and although he pleaded
that he only wanted to represent for one
month what the divines had been trading
on for 1800 years, still, the authorities were Influ-
enced by the grab-all clerics, and the end of the
trouble was that the wretched Salmi went clean off
his kadoova, and used to stick straws in his hair and
rig himself out in a buckskin shirt, and go tramp-
ing about the lagoons under the somewhat absurd
idea that he was John the Baptist getting ready
for a monster christening. Little by little the
unfortunate fellow grew worse, until at last he
became mad enough to write anotherplay, entitled
“ A Bustle among the Petticoats.” This was most
unmercifully “goosed” on its first representation,
and It Is supposed that Salmi then Imagined he
was St. Peter, and undertook to walk the East
River waters with his boots on. Salmi was a bully
boy in Melbourne during the good old roustabout
days, and built the Criterion Hotel In Collins-street.
And now, to quote his own words, Consummatum
est—“All Is finished.”
It a is bald-headed, but, nevertheless, per-
fectly reliable saying, that one half the world
doesn’t know how the other half lives, and the
balance don’t care. For all that, however, some
of the inhabitants contrive to jog along quite
nicely and comfortably. For instance. Amongst
our unostentatious millionaires we know at least
twelve disciples of the meek and lowly Nazarean,
who can satisfactorily foot cheques for over
£30,000; but, strange to say, when our starving
paupers require the price of a loaf, they go, not to
any of these favoured twelve, but to some poverty-
striken Samaritan, who, although he may be oven
Eoorer than his applicants, Is ever ready to share
is bottom copper with them. The favoured
twelve would either give the beggars in charge or
set their dogs on them. Then again, there is a
Museum official In our midst, whose landed estate
on our suburban railway lines is valued at £54,000,
but as this gentleman is a very slave to science, he
still holds his position, a«d-draws his salary just
as humbly and regularly as the old lady who
mops out the Museum floor. In our Civil
Service, Rothschilds are as plentiful as fleas
in a bfiackfellow’s dog—Mr. Trickett having
the honour to boss one millionaire whose stocking
holds about £100,000 and who is hauled down to
his office every day in a carriage drawn by 3.40
trotters—and all these hang on to their laborious
billets with the death-liko tenacity of a Cooktown
alligator to a niggar’s heel, or a “ mimbir of th’
foorce ” to a long beer. Coming down in the
social scale, a recently retired policeman blush-
Ingly admits to being the lawful owner of £30,000
worth of good household property, in and about
Sydney. This we consider to be a complete refu-
tation of Mr. Melville’s statement that no good
can ever come from the consumption of alcoholic
liquors. Lastly, it is pubbely asserted that our
head flogger is one of the best read men in Sydney
and worth nearly £13,000 in real estate, the whole
of which has been earned while he was employed
as a gaol warder. But he still toils on, for his work
is a labour of love and frequently places him a
“ out” or so above some of his less fortunate fel-
low creatures.
The Rev. A. C. Gillies is a New Zealand
clergyman. Some of our less religious readers
may be inclined to profanely observe that this
fact has no interest for them. But they are wrong.
And why wrong ? Because Mr. Gillies is more
than an ordinary clergyman. He is an extraordi-
nary one. The other day he wrote to the editor ot
the Auckland Star after this fashionSub-
editor ot the Stab. Sir,— V ou have treated my re-
quest with silent contempt. All right. I now
know your moral tastes. You can fill your dirty
paper with notices of vile prostitutes, jockeys,
gamblers, idle cricketers, and lazy loons of scul-
lers- but you have no moral taste tor appreciating
such men as, &c. Hitherto, I have given nearly all
our advertising to the Star, but henceforth I will
transfer our advertising to some other paper. I
am &c A. C. Gillies.” The Christum spirit and
charming language of this letter must remind
every scaolar of the epistles of the Alexandrian
era The request, by the way, that was treated
with “silent contempt,” was for a reporter to
attend and take notes of the reverend gentleman s
sermons. It is somewhat curious that he should
desire to see his sermons printed in a " dirty
paper ” filled with notices of the characters tie
mentions. Perhaps he considered it would act as a
deodoriser. Mr. Gillies, we might say, deserves
the gratitude of the local press on another ground.
Some time ago he warned reporters not to enter
his church. This was kindly on his part, and
revealed a mournful consciousness of his fatal
eloquence. But it was rather illogical to then
turn round and abuse the poor fellows for taking
his advice. His concluding threat is a crusher. If
the editor has not already hung himself on the
handle of the machine crank he is a hardened man
whose chances of salvation we would not take in
a gift. In truth, though, our own experiences of
the benefit of clerical advertisements is of the
bitter and scornful kind. We have nearly always
found that when we inserted a religious advertise-
ment we had to pay twice as much as we got for it
in the form of a subscription to a society for the
Conversion of Cats, or something similar, If we
refused to do this we werelncontinentally damned.
The result of our observations on this matter is
that there is a superstition among the clergy—the
only superstition they have, as far as we know—
to the effect that editors insert religious rdvertise-
mentsforthe “glory of God.”
Mons. Pasteur is a duly qualified, legally
ordained vlvisector, and in a cheerful little work,
specially adapted for midnight reading in a
haunted house, and entitled “ Histoire d’un Savant
par un Ignorent,” there is a graphicjaccount of his
simple home life. The garden of the old College
Rollin has been placed at the disposal of M.
Pasteur, who has covered it with stables for horses
suffering from glanders, sheep-pens for sheep
attacked with anthrax, and kennels for mad dogs.
In the cellars beneath his laboratory in the Rue
d’Ulm there is also a gruesome collection—dogs in
all stages of rabies, some still unconscious that
they contain the fatal germ, others already furious
and awakening the echoes with lugubrious bark-
ing. Here are families of fowls, rabbits, guinea-
pitrs, and little white mice, all destined for inocu-
lation experiments. Every morning a tour of
inspection is made, and the dead are removed to
the rooms above for dissection and examination.
There is a legend that no less than 413 reporters
visited M. Pasteur with a view of giving his cheer-
ful establishment a first-clats puff; but no sooner
did each journalist strike the rabies cellar than ho
turned and bolted over the fence, screaming as l.e
went, “ Got ’em again, by h—11 must swear off thn
time.” Distributed about the laboratory and
offices are panniers and boxes, some of great size
wrapped in straw, and containing the carcases cf
animals vsent from all parts of France, and, indeed,
of the world) which have died of various diseases.
In addition to these, unpretentious bttle tin boxes,
and carefully packed phials, containing such pre-
cious gifts as yellow fever secretions from Brazil,
cholera germs from India, hydatid worms from
England, and a thousand other pleasantries of a
like description are received and welcomed by
M. Pasteur every week. Perhaps the most curious
sight, however, is the large number of glass tubes
distributed through the laboratory and from these
the festive vlvisector would be able to supply any
zymotic disease a modern Romeo could wish for.
In the solutions contained in the tubes swarm
millions and millions of micrebes in various stages
of “attenuation,” and a prick from a pin-point
dipped in any one of them might confer a horrible
disease or future immunity from it. Yet, in the
midst of such dread responsibilities, the devoted
experimentalist moves unharmed. Dante's In-
ferno in full blast was simply a nigger minstrel
show with sixteen corner men, and free drinks at
the Intermission, compared to the playful abode
of M. Pasteur.
Alexander Meyrick Broadley, son of a
minor canon of Salisbury, was born in ’47. In ’69
he was called to the Bar. Three years later ho
went to live at Tunis, where he soon secured the
chief legal practice. He conducted with marked
ability the historic Enflda case: and as the adviser
ot the late Bey Sidi Mohamed-el-Sadok, drew up
the protests that potentate made against French
agression. During the war between France and
WAKING ’EM UP.
British Wisdom and French Sagacity.


□Tit© ISeliaTbXe 33'm.g"gries!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMIUG, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 2T Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
J- C3r. Harborow,
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
JUST OPENED, per s.s. Yaletta. 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, in all the Latest Styles and Shades;
a Large Consignment of Ladies’ and Children’s HOSIERY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
uashmere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS.
MILLINERY —For the winter.
BLOW MRS—In groat variety.
FEATHERS—In all qualities.
STRAWo—In all new shapes.
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from.
MILLINBHY—A large stock to select from.
M tLLINERY —A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
Having engaged a first-class French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
and boadon markets, we are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods In the
above line. A largo stork of FANCY GOODS, consisting of Sunshades, Fans, Purses, Morocco, Russia,
and Seal Bags, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &c. ’
Note Address-J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Street, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET. LONDON, E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET. DUBBO.
I W~ Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Bovs’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
NOTWITHSTANDING THE LATE DISASTROUS FIRE,
CIE3-A_^£l?T , OaNr tSo BKUCE
ARE ABLE
TO OPEN THEIR NEW MAGNIFICENT PREMISES,
197 PITT ST., (Opposite Coaipagaoai’s)
WITH A COMPLETE STOCK OF
itrmi Fliiis, Smith Orjas, and In Music.
Note the New Address—NEAR KING STREET.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
FOR 1884,
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OUR BICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, of
any machines made.
Our Prices Lowest.
Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion Customer.
Write to us,
Call on us.
JiffiSlMLaR.'COMFY
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
•i
JjlOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore-road,
Paddington,
14th January, 1884
Messrs. Elliott Brothers.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks ago, I was so
severely affected with indisposition as to render
my rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
fain, on account of severe pains in my back ; and
was just beginning to realise that I would have
to absent myself from my work for a time, when
a friend recommended me to try Hamburg Tea,
mentioning at the same time the benefit he him-
self had received. At the time I used it, I really
was not fit for my work, and yet in the course of
three or four days I was myself again, and have
not suffered since. I write this conscientiously,
for the guidance of others, and you are at liberty
to make what use you please of it.
ITours faithfully,
JNO. KELLY.
EMIL FKESE’S HAMBURG TEA.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL,
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Colds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c., caused by an impure state or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Scrofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventative against
Contagion, and destroys Inhaled Miasmatic and
Contagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood,
cleanses the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the
whole system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the
bowels in a very mild and certain way. It works
on the system generally, causing little or no dis-
comfort. It will prevent almost any disease if
used at least once a month. It restores the appe-
tite, it removes the distress caused by eating
hearty food or overloading the stomach, and will
be found effectual as a Family Remedy where a
simple purgative only is needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT.
Full directions in English, French, Spanish, and
German with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies, at ONE SHILLING a packet.
Wholesale Depot for New South Wales—ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, Sydney.
Mashers.—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Brickfield Hill.
Enjoy Life—What a truly beautiful world we
live in ! We can desire no better when in good
health; but how often do the majority of people
feel like giving it up disheartened, discouraged
and worried out with disease, when there is no
occasion for this feeling, Green’s August Flower
will make them as free from disease as when born.
Dysyepsia and Liver Complaint are the direct
cause of seventy-five per cent, of such maladies as
Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache, Costive-
ness, Nervous Prostration, [Dizziness of the Head,
Palpitation of the Heart, aud other distressing
symptoms. Three doses of August Flower will
prove its wonderful effect. Sold by all Druggists
at 3s. 6d. per bottle. Sample bottles, 6d. Try it.
Tunis, he acted as special correspondent for the
London Times. His “ Tunis Past and Present” is
an amplification of his letters to the thunderer of
Printing House Square. When Wilfred Blunt (the
“Future of Islam” man) made up his mind to
arrange, at his own costs, for Arabi’s defence, he
entrusted the principal brief to Broad! ey; and as
the patriotic fellah’s advocate Broadley made a big
hit. which he followed up by another—the publi-
cation of his intensely interesting work, “ How we
Defended Arabi.” He entered (he tells us) on
Arabi’s defence without any special sympathy in
the accused’s favour; his opinion now is that
Arab! is a brave, straight-forward, dignified
patriot—his only crime an attempt to save his
country from the grasp of corrupt and incapable
rulers. Broadley, who has a most praiseworthy
“ down ” on Turkish intrigue, considers that under
a British Protectorate Egyptian statesmanship
could re-create Egypt.
* * ♦
Senior-Sergeant Bremner (sub-inspector
Brenner s brother) died last week; for thirteen
years in charge of Parramatta district; originally
in the London Metropolitan Police. A real square
man Dr. Day, who was despatched to Forster to
fight the typhoid, and who went and fought and
conquered, returned to Sydney to die a few days
afterwards of the same disease, which in others he
had combatted so successfully. Good Day! ...
Webb, Q.C., succeeds J. B. Gregory (resigned) as
one ot revisers of Victorian legal code—Chapman
and Hall, the London publishers, have apologised
to native minister (N.Z.) Bryce for the rough
statements about him in Rusden’s History of New
Zealand, and have withdrawn the book from sale
till G.W.R. proves the truth of his allegations....
Old Mi s. Burton, for over half a century a resident
of Queanbeyan, died lest week.
Who will get Mr. J. H. Knlpe’s prize for
that new kind of wine ? He offers £35 for the best
exhibit of it at the International Wine, Fruit, and
Grain Exhibition, in which the illustrious L. L.
Smith is such a distinguished power. Mr. Knipe a
conditions are pretty stiff. Before he parts with
his £33 it must be satisfactorily proved that the
wine is, first, the pure juice of the grape; second,
that it is fermented sufficiently for its entire pre-
servation ; third, that it is non-intoxicating, or
does not contain more than 5 per cent, of alcohol;
and when some old rosy-faced vigneron has strug-
gled along that far, then he must meet the fourth
condition, namely, that the wine must be produced
in sufficient quantity to be purchased in all centres
of population at not more than Is. per quart. This
last condition will likely cork up the most en-
thusiastic vigneron. If be can sell it at a shilling a
quart in Bchuca, how can he sell it at a shilling a
quart In Ballarat? Unless its intrinsic value be
only a penny a quart, ho can’t guarantee it at all
centres at a price not more than a shilling, if Mr.
Knipe adhere rigidly to his conditions he may
reckon on keeping that £35 for a very long time.
Martha Letitia Wrigot was declared by Mr.
C ill in the Melb. Police Court, the other day, to be
•• the most unmotherly creature he had ever seen
in petticoats.” Martha appeared to be deeply
stung by that declaration, and it looked as if she
were about to clear out of her destructive
draperies. But his worship blocked that path to
peace. He told her she had no more feeling “ than
a dog has for its puppies,” and proceeded to show
that even this phrase credited her with too much
goodness. The case stood simply this way : Mar-
tha had had an illegitimate child. As a servant
she was dependant on her hands for her support.
No one would employ her with the child ; she
handed the child over to the authorities and told
them to put it in some home and that she would
pay half her wages every week for its care. This
was an irregular method of doing the thing, and
this irregularity, not the circumstances involved,
was what produced this bitter indignation of the
magisterial mind. But when wickedness comes
before us we are all indignant. We can’t help it.
But where the wickedness is largely alloyed with
misery and necessity, it is there our souls are
stirred to their deepest depths.
The Royal Society of Victoria is still exer-
cised about the red sunsets. When other people
were getting tired of the subject, the members of
that society rubbed their high foreheads and dipped
their scientific ingenuity into it. Perhaps they
showed prudence in waiting. He who speaks last
ou an obscure subject has great advantages over
him who speaks first. Lately, then, the society
decided that these sunsets could not be accounted
for on the dust theory. Mr. Ellery had pointed out
that, to give us as much of them as we have got,
a belt of dust 180,000,000 of miles in thickness would
be required. It appeared preposterous that so
much dust as that should be thrown in our eyes.
The society went, therefore, bodily for the aqueous
theory. They didn’t say how much water the
aqueous theory demanded, or whence it could be
pumped, or how it could produce such a rosy red-
ness on the lower part of the face of heaven as
that which has been witnessed. Their great point
was the naturalness of the theory. We see what
water (with a little summat) can do on the human
nose. May not water (without the little summat)
do the same thing with the heaven’s chin ? Science
is great at explaining things that can’t be ex-
plained.
Says the D.T.; —“M. Jules Ferry is a
Frenchman, and therefore he must ride the high
horse, and assert the independence of his nation,
and declare that it will do what it conceives to be
right in its own eyes, without reference to any
other nation whatever.” Of course, it is only
Frenchman who ride the high horse, and assert the
Independence of their nation, and declare they will
do what it conceives to be right in their own eyes,
without reference to any other nation whatever.
Of course, because the D.T. as good as says so.
And yet, to the north of France, across a silver
strip of sea, there is an island, and on that
island there is bred a race of men, who ride
three high horses abreast, and who, not con-
tent with asserting their own independence,
and with declaring that they will do what they
think right In their own eyes without reference to
any other people whatever, are ready to thrust
bayonets into anybody interfering with their
selfish designs in any quarter of the globe—a race
of men who believe “ that Providence made a
distinct mistake in originating so small a nation of
hearts of oak and so many other verminous
peoples,” and that it is their proud privilege and
obvious duty to knock into smithereens any
smaller and weaker race that has the impertinence
to get into their way. National Phariseelsm is as
abominable as personal phariseeism.
ALEXANDER MEYRICK BROAD LEY.
What Happened to Johnny.
“ And your name is Johnny, is it ? You’re the son
of Peter—so!
I and Peter were fast chums of old, full thirty
years ago.
Glad to see you. Glad he thought of me. You
mind me of his face;
It wakes up the days long buried, and the old
far-distant place.
“ Glad to see you; very glad, I’m sure; don’t mind
me if a tear
Trickles down. It’s only old times; o-o-old
times, Johnny, dear.
For your father—I must call him Peter—and
myself—I’m James —
Were what young men seldom are; were friends
in studies, friends in games.
“ Friends in ev’rythlngand ev’ry where, and people
far and near
Called us brothers; and we stuck together, till I
came out here.
Glad to see you, Johnny; very glad. This letter
you have brought
From old Peter makes me proud to-day, as well,
indeed, it ought!
“ For I now can do a service—just some little thing
to show
That a far land hasn’t changed me; I’m the
James of long ago.
So you’ll settle in Australia ? Glad, Indeed, I am,
I am;
And the thousand pounds you’ve with yon-
listen, Johnny, now, be calm—
“Look about you: don’t be foolish; weigh wel
what you’ll put it in;
There are people round here, Johnny, who would
think it no great sin
To induce you to invest it. Johnny, don’t; keep
cool, sir; I’ve oft
Known a young fellow slipped up, through being
innocently soft.
“ Wait. I’ll do my best to serve you. I have influ-
ence about,
And my name has earned some honour—which
you’ll learn, beyond a doubt;
Any special line you’d like? Now, Johnny, let
me wipe this tear—
It is only old times, Johnny; o-o-old times,
Johnny, dearl
“ There are people who will tell you there’s a for-
tune at your band,
If you’ll fork your thousand to them. Johnny,
don’t;—you understand?
I have had a wide experience; have done well;
quite well,you know;
Can sit down and lend a hand to you, with
thoughts of long ago.
“ I'm well in; my specs, are thriving; did you say
you liked my line ?
Ah, well, truly, I’ve had partners. But it’s hard.
Why ev’ry nine
Out of fen I couldn’t bear with. But your face
is Peter’s face!
You bring back the old times to me; o-old times,
the o-old place.
“ I think I’ll break the rule I laid down. Johnny,
mind, I wouldn’t take
Another man in all Australia. It’s for Peter’s—
Peter’s sake 1
You will do, I'm sure and certain, and will very
quickly mount;
Sign this order, Johnny; pass your cheque into
my bank account.
“Merely formal, merely formal; don’t mind
Johnny, how I go;
It is only old times, Johnny; o-old times of long
ago!”
Johnny was a trustful young man, and when but
a week had passed,
He wrote home: “ Dear Father, I am into heavy
trouble cast.
James you sent me to, a partner made me, and I
felt so gay,
But betook my thousand pounds and turned in-
solvent right away.
“ Ah! I thought from how he talked to me he was
an honest man;
But he wasn’t; no, ho wasn’t; father, help me if
you can!”


GOULBURN
GRAND ART UNION
No. 1.
Distribution of Freehold
Properties
UPON THE ART U1IION PRINCIPLE.
Proprietors: Messrs. T. MARSDEN &S. B. BURGE
Under the supervision of an Influential Committee
£10,875. £10,875.
16,875 Subscribers at *1 each.
1 Prize for nearly every 80 Tickets.
219 Prizes. 219 Prizes.
1st Prize, *3000— BURGEVILLE, Goulburn :
< ontaining 8 spacious rooms, besides Kitchen,
Bath-room, Pantries, &c , Stables, Coachhouse,
Hayshcd, and all necessary outbuildings for a
gentleman’s residence ; recently built, 'The
grounds comprise acres, and are tastefully
laid out. The site is superb, commanding a
view of the surrounding country for miles
round.
2nd Prize, *3000, is also a Newly Built Resi-
dence in the possession and occupation of
Thomas Marsden, Esq., and commanding a
position in no way inferior to that of the first
prize. It is situate at the top of Verner-street,
Goulburn, within a stone’s throw of the centre
of the town. The house isfabhfully built, and
contains 8 Rooms. Bath room, 3 Pantries, Wash-
house, Large cellar, &c., with Stables, ana
Goach-house. The land comprises allotments
6, 7, and 8 of section 0, City of Goulburn.
3rd prize. *2000— the Residence of Commis-
sioner Burne-is a Newly Built Residence
situate near Lansdown Bridge, Goulburn, and
stands on the banks of the Mulwarree. from
which a never failing supply of water can be
obtained. The House contains 8 Booms, be-
sides Kitchen, Pantry, Bath-room, &c. There
are also attached large Stables, Coach-house,
&c. The grounds contain about 6 acres, com-
prising Orchard, Lucerne Paddock, &c.
4th Prize, *1870, is an Improved Farm of
2ii3 acres (more or less) situate at Kenmore,
within a short distince of Goulburn. The
land is newly fenced, and subdivided into 5
paddocks. The further improvements com-
prise House of 4 rooms. Milking Yard, Stock
Yards, Cultivation Paddocks. A creek runs
through the property. An income of over
£303 a year is now received by the proprietor.
Sth Pizc, *1060, is a Corner R lock in Monta-
gue-street, Goulburn, at present under lease
to the E.. S., and A. 0. Bank, and on which
stands a first-class building lately used by them
as a Bank. The frontage is 30ft, and occupies
a grand position for building purposes.
6th Prize, £500-Splendid Building Allotment ad-
ioining Burgevlllo. with a frontage of U9ft.,
and a depth of 330ft., well improved with Or-
chard and Ornamental Trees. £150 worth of
iron railings on the ground.
7th Prize, £360-Valuable Block at the corner of
Yerner and C iwper r treets with a frontage to
Verner-street of 66 feet, fenced in, and con-
sidered the best building site in Goulburn.
8th and 9th Prizes, £150 each- Allotments 10 and
11 of section 13, having each a frontage of 06
feet to Verner-street.
10th to 13th Prizes, £135 each-having each a front-
age of 33 feet to Auburn-street—the mam
street. The block is fenced with Pallisade
Fencing.
Htb Prize, £135-Allotmcnt near Auburn-street,
having frontages to 3 streets.
15th and 16th Prizes, £120-A llotments 1 and 33 of
section 113, Goulburn, 3 corner allotments-
splendid blocks for subdivision.
17th Prize, £100-Allotment at corner of Addison
and Coromandel Streets, having a frontage of
66 feet 8 inches to Coromandel-atreet.
ISth Prize, £100—Allotment in Addisomstreet, with
a frontage of 60 feet thereto running back to
Sanita-street. Adjoins West Goulburn Church
Reserve.
19th Prize, £100—Allotment 10, section 110, near the
new Gaol.
20th to 34th Prizes, £75 each-3 Allotments, having
a frontage of 40 feet to Combermere-street,
opposite Burgeville.
35th and 36th Prizes, £60 each—f.O feet and 50 feet
respectively to Hill-street, South Goulburn.
37th Prize, £30—80 feet to Bennett-street, South
Goulburn.
28th to 38th Prizes, 11 at £50—Allotments in Subdi-
vision of Burge and Marsden s land, corner of
Coroman demand Addison Streets. South Goul-
burn.
39th to 41st Prizes, £40 each—3 Allotments, part of
the Wollondale subdivision near Marsden s
Bridge, Goulburn.
42nd Prize. £40—Allotment of land on the Mum-
mell Road, near R.C. College.
43rd to 51st Prizes, 9 at £35-Allotments in subdi-
vision of Burge and Marsden’s land, corner of
Addison and Coromandel Streets.
53nd and 53rd Prizes, £30 each-3 Allotments near
the new Gaol.
54th to 59th Prizes, 6 at £35-8plendid building
blocks in West Goulburn, containing each one
acre and over.
80th to 319th Prizes, 160 at £1310s-80 Fine Building
Allotments adjoining property now being sold
at 12s 6d a foot by the A. M. I. and B. Coy., and
80 in other localities.
Solicitor: A. M. Betts, Esq., Goulburn.
Photos, of houses and plans of allotments can be
inspected.
The drawing will take place in the Mechanics’
Institute Goulburn, on a day to bo shortly fixed,
to which all shareholders are invited. The com-
mittee will supervise all the arrangements in the
interests of the shareholder*’.
The result of the drawing will be published in
this paper.
Remittances (registered) should be made by P.-O.
order, bank draft, or crossed cheque (with ex-
change added.) A stamped addressed envelope for
reply must be enclosed. The name of the postal
town should be always given.
1 tgr As this is the most liberal s che ™''yet intro-
i duced to the public, there is no doubt the tickets
will be rapidly taken up. Intending applicants
should, therefore, remit without delay. It is anti-
cipated the di awing will bo held in about 3
months.
For Tickets apply to
A. W. BULLEN,
(P. O. Box 61),
Goulburn, N.8.W,
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NEBDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships-
BUNIN YONG EDINA KONGO WARRA
BARRA BOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
ORD PICTURES OF PRISON LIFE.
WORD PICTURES OF PRISON LIFE.
WORD PICTURES OF PRISON LIFE.
WORD PICTURES OF PRISON LIFE-
WORD PICTURES OF PRISON LIFE.
WORD PICTURES OF PRISON LIFE.
I.—Two Hours in the Condemned Cell,
II.—Cupid in Captivity,
HI.- How to Live on Nothing a Year,
etc., etc.
Illustrated by songs, the music and words of which
were composed by
Dr. Walter Rodway
in a
PRISON CELL.
See future announcements.
jq A N C I N G .
RUOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday evenings.
Advanced Classes and Visitors on Wednesdays.
Private Lessons, day and evening.
The suite of rooms (8), largest, coolest, most
elegant in Australia, to rent for Balls, Weddings,
or Assemblies. Apply Academy,
251 CASTLEREAGH-ST. (near Bathurst-street).
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 21st April, 1884.
TENDERS FOR REPAIRS AND IMPROVE-
MENTS.
TENDERS are invited for Repairs and Improve-
ments to the Public School Building at
Hurstvilie.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of
Public Instruction. Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Repairs and Im-
provements, Hurstvilie Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m. on Wednesday, the 14th May, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or aoy Tender. J. p. ABBOTT.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 15, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Stables, Post and Telegraph
Office. Windsor.
Erection of Gatekeepers’ Cot-
tages. Section 2, Great North-
ern Railway Extension
Fencing, &c., Police Station,
Albury m ,
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office Paddington
Erecting Platform Walls, Harris
Park, Parramatta
Constructing Foundations and
Pits for Workshops, Evelelgh
Fencing of Sewage Farm,
Webb’s Grant, Botany
Foundations and Pits for Turn-
tab
Pine Laying, Hunter River
Water Supply
Additions, &o., 1 ockup, Morpeth
Bridge over Ournle Creek, road
Bowna to Welaregang
Bridge over Manus Creek, road
Tumberumba to Ournie Reefs
Cont ITn Road Iron Cove Bridge
to Gladesvllle
Cont. 18n, Pett s Ferry-road
Wpter Tank at Newcastle, G N.
Railway
Tuesday,
6th May,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
13th May,
at H o’clock.
Construction of Timber Over-
shot Dam Trial Bay Prison
Erection of Brick Boundary
Wall 1a Lock-up Gaol, Bourke
Addittions Courthouse, Menin-
die
Locomotive Running Shed,
Goulburn
Alterations, &c., to premises ad-
joining the General Post Office
Construction of a Line of Rail- I
way Bungendore to Mlchelago I
Erection of Courthouse, In-1
vorell I
Additions to Quarters, Nobby's |
Light House, Newcastle
Additions to Courthouse, Mer-1
riwa
Erection of Police Quarters, I
Larabton
Tuesday,
20th May,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
27th May.
at U o’clock.
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Rails.
10th February,
1885,
at 11 o’clock
F. A. WRIGHT.
T
PROSPECTUS
of
HE GRAND TONTINE DISTRIBUTION
A FORTUNE FOR ONE POUND.
80,000 Members at £1 a Member.
CITY OF SYDNEY.
£80,OOO WORTH of CITY LAND
in
GEORGE-STREBT,
and
SUBURBAN LANDS
at
COOGEE
(close to the Baden Baden Hotel).
TO BE GIVEN AWAY.
180 PRIZES.
And 163 ADDITIONAL PRIZES
(making 180 Prizes in all),
Value from £100 each to £30 each Prize.
THE GRAND TONTINE DISTRIBUTION
will take place on or about
MONDAY, 26th MAY,
by a Committee of Gentlemen, to be appointed by
the Subscribers.
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. Way and Way,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
BANKERS :
Bank of Now Zealand,
with whom all monies will bo deposited on trust.
Nearly 40,000 already subscribed for in Sydney and
Melbourne.
Early Application for Tickets necessary, and
should the Drawing take place earlier than
26th MAY,
Due notice will be aiven in the
DAILY PAPERS.
A MOST SPLENDID CHANCE
for
SPECULATORS.
The GRAND TONTINE DISTRIBUTION OF
SYDNEY.
A FORTUNE FOR £1.
TICKETS ISSUED DAILY.
AMOUNTS RETURNED IN FULL
Should the Distribution Not Take Place.
HARDIB and GORMAN,
Principal Agents,
131, PITT-STRBET,
Sydney.
N.B.—Local Agents appointed in Country Towns
of N.S. Wales, also in Queensland and Victoria.
The Property to be Distributed consists of over
631 FEE 1’ FRONTAGE to GBORGE-STREET,
opposite the New Five-story Building of the
AUSTRALASIAN STEAM NAVIGATION CO.,
and close by the
P. and O. Company’s and A.S.N. Company’s
Wharves, and also Beautiful
BUILDING LAND at COOGEE,
close to
BISHOPSCOURT,
The BADEN BADEN HOTEL,
and the COOGEE TRAMWAY TERMINUS.
APPLY PERSONALLY or by LETTER.
RECOLLECT—A FORTUNE FOR £1.
REMEMBER the GRAND TONTINE
DISTRIBUTION.
PRIZES in REAL ESTATE of Undoubted Value.
TICKETS £1 EACH.
HARDIE and GORMAN,
133, PITT-STi'tEET,
Sydney.
PARTICULARS OF PRIZES.
FIRST PRIZE *20,000.
Ill feet frontage to George-street, 151 feet along
Reserved Road to Lane, with 8 feet
frontage at rear. A Grand Corner.
2nd PRIZE,—£8000-51 feet frontage to George-
Street, by depth of 106 feet to road at rear.
3rd PRIZE,—£4000—29 feet frontage to George-
street, by depth of 106 feet to road at rear,
4th PRIZE. 3,500- 29 feet frontage to Georgc-
strect, by depth of 1C6 feet to road at rear.
5th PRIZE, £8500—39 feetfrontage to George-street,
by depth of 106 feet to road at rear.
6th PRIZE, £3200-29 feetfrontage to George-street,
by depth of 106 feet to road at rear.
7th PRIZE, £2800—29 feetfrontage to George-street,
by depth of 106 feet to road at rear.
8 th PRIZ E, £3750 —29 feet frontage to G eorge-str eet,
by depth of 1U4 feet to road at rear.
9th PRIZE, £3700—29 feet frontage to George-street,
by depth of 104 feet to road at rear.
10th PRIZE, £2650— 29 feet frontage to George-
street. by depth of 104 feet to road at rear.
11th PHIZE, £2600—30 feet frontage to George-
street, by depth of 101 feet to road at rear,
12th PRIZE, £3550—40 feet frontage to George-
street, by depth of 80 feet to road at rear.
13th PRIZE, £2500-30 feet frontage to George-
street, by depth of 70 feet to roan at, rear.
14th PRIZE, £3450—39 feet frontage to George-
street by depth of 73 feet to road at rear.
15th PRIZE, £2400-80 feet frontage to George-
street, by depth of 80 feet to road at rear.
16th PRIZE, £2350-30 feet frontage to George-
street, by depth of 90 feet to road at rear.
17th PRIZE, £2300—35 feet frontage to George-
street, by depth of 100 feat to road at rear.
AND 163 ADDITIONAL PRIZES,
consisting of
Blocks of Building? Land at Cooj?ee,
Portions of the well-known Marine Estate,
“CLIPPBROUK.”
Having frontages of about 20 feet each, and
ranging in value from
too to £20.
The Position of Each Prize will be shown on Plans
at time of Drawing, and before Drawing takes
place.
o
Lessee
Sub-lessee and Manager
Stage Ma na fA er tvRLL0IJS gtrcOTBS Otf
AN ARABIAN NIGHT.
p AN K ARADIAN NIGHT can only be played Five
Niirhts longer in consequence of the production on
* SATiSRDAY NEXT, MAY 3,
of the new grand Spectacular Military Comedy
Drama, EASTWARD HO I
after weeks of elaborate preparation, and at an
ernormous outlay. _
EVERYTHING ENTIRELY NEW.
For particulars see bills and future advertisements.
Prices of Admission.—Dress circle, 5s.; stalls, 3s.
PIT-ONLY ONE SHILLING.
Reserved Seats at Tickets at
Roberts’, adjoining theatre.
S. GENE8E, Business Manager.
P E R A
house.
W. J. Wilson.
J. B. Polk.
N. B. Jones.
Gaiety t h eat r e.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sub-lessee and Manager .. Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Greatest Success ever achieved in Sydney I
Pinero’s great Play,
THE SQUIRE1 THE 8QUIREI
Received each evening by crowded and brilliant
audiences, who unanimously testily to the G CU-
RIOUS TRIUMPH of the greatest of all Plays,
THE SQUIRE I
Which will be repeated
THIS EVENING and EVERY EVENING.
Each Act recalled, and the public delighted with
the Powerful Cast, Kinchela’s beautiful Scenery,
and all the original business as played in London
for 300 nights I The Sydney Press unanimous.
Also the amusing Comedietta,
COOL AS A CUCUMBER,
Mr. Wybert Reeve in both pieces.
Box Plan at Paling’s.-Tickets at Young’s Hotel,
next Theatre. Orchestra Chairs, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.;
Family Circle, 3s.; GALLERY, ONE SHILLING.
y Business Agent, Mr. G. A. COLEMAN.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrovb.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE SILVER KING
THE SILVER KING.
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 5s.; STALLS, 3s.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
m W. A HOURS AT HAME.
"*■ PROTESTANT HALL.
TEN NIGHTS ONLY,
Commencing
THURSDAY, 1st MAY.
KENNEDY’S
Final Farewell.
Mr. Kennedy and family return to Scotland almost
Immediately.
Change of Programme each evening. Com-
mence at 8.
Admission, 3a., 2s., 1.
R. KENNEDY, Manager.
Academy of music
Lessee and Manager-Mr. F. B. Hiscocks.
The Fashionable and Select Nightly Lounge 1
The Home of Amusement I
FOURTH WEEK OF
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and
SPECIALTY UNION,
Including the MARVELLOUS GIRARDS.
Every Evening at 8. Prices-4s , 3s., 3s., Is.
Plan at Paling's Music Warehouse, where seats
may be reserved.
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
IST” For future engagements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above, till further
notice.
QUNDAY AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Miss Pauline Bensom
Miss Jessie Bally
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 3, 3.20,3.40, 3, 3.20,
The entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
forte from the establishment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
Third Annual Owl Club Ball,
~ PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS.
Will take place
at the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
THURSDAY, the I2th of JUNE.
L. CLARKE, Mon. Trees.
(care F. Lasseteb and Co.)
MORRIS MENSER, Hon. Sec..
384 George-street.
p LEBE ROWING CLUB.
FIFTH ANNUAL
Plain & Fancy Dress Ball.
FRIDAY, MAY 30th, 1884.
PROFESSOR WEST’S NEW ROOMS,
Castlereagh-street.
Tickets— Double, 80s.; Lady’s, 13s. 0d.; Gentle-
man’s, £1; to be had from any member of the
committee. gnUTB, Hon. Sec.,
48 Phillip-street.


The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Cali and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little. Instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays In three keys, and
nil the parts of mo*t difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
WHERE DO YOTT PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
Why, from the O It I ENT A L GO I. » f O JI PAN Y
of course, where they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
from the sterling metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but an expert can detect the difference.
See our List of Prices, as follows, and note that
ANY ARTICLE WILL FJE SENT POST FREE,
AND AT OUR RI»K:-
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 7s. 6d
each
Gent’s richly-chased, engraved, and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s. fid., 8s. fid., 10s., and 12s. fid
per set
Same as above, only Half Suites. 3s., 4s., 5s. per set
Very latest American patent-spring Solitaire
Suites, 103. per set
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alberts, fis. fid. and 10s. each
Gent’s handsome Scarf Pins, 3s. fid., 5s., 6s., 7s. fid ,
8s , and 10s. each
Gent’s elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. 6d., 8s., and 10s.
each
Gent's elegant Compasses, latest designs, 8s., 10s.
and 12s. fid. each
Gent’s very latest American 18-carat rolled Gold
Alberts (made specially to our order), 17s. fid.,
20s , 25s.. 27s. fid., and 30s. each
I Choice Brooch and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 35s.
Richiy-chased & engraved Bracelets, 12s, fid. to 30s.
, Elegant Brooches, beautiful patterns, 5s. to 25s.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. fid.,
8s. fid , 10s.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassells, 15s., 20s., and 25s. each
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, fis., 7s. fid., 8s. fid.,
and 10s. pair; Ladies’ choice Necklets, from
12s. fid. to 30s.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to
15s. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps,
15s. to 35s.; Ladies’ very best American 18 carat,
rolled gold Chatalalnes, 80s.; Ladies’ choice
Lockets land Necklets, 20s. to 40s;: Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. fid., 8s. fid., 10s., 15s., and 20s.
No. 1.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, witu
Oriental Gold Albert £2 4 6
No. 2.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £2 10 0
No. 3.
Ladies' Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £3 17 6
No. 4.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 2 6
jpy These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
No. 5.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully Jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert £4 10 0
No. 6.
Ditto Ditto, extra jewelled, and compen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Albert £5 5 0
No. 7.
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance .. £5 5 0
No. 9.
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glosses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
No. 10.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 o
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance Is forwarded with each watch.
No. 11.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
No. 12.
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade .. .. • • • • .. .. £5 6 6
No. 13.
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £10 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus wo can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £i0.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.—If the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or. where mails are lew, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any oue
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry lor two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-sf., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal— “The Silver King” p8.
Opera House— “An Arabian Night” ib.
Gaiety Theatre—" Squire ” lb.
Protestant Hall—" Twa Hours at Hame ”...ib.
Academy of Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
We went to the Minstrels again the other
night, and found that Mr. Braham had changed
the programme—for the better, perhaps. Mr.
Braham, you know, is tha stage manager at the
Academy of Musie just now, which reminds us
that we once (about a dozen years ago, when we
were young and innocent) tried our hand at stage-
management for a minstrel troupe. We were not
a success. A minstrel troupe is all right if you can
keep it sober. Therein lies tho difficulty. Every
once in a while about one half of the troupe gets
“off,” and then you have to run the "props” in
for interlocator, one of the royal high-kickcrs for a
tenor solo, and tho scene-shifcer for a corner man.
It happens, too, occasionally, that the usher gets
drunk, aud then you have to go out somewhere
and brain a tailor’s dummy with a shovel, or the
people would never be properly shown to their
seats. We don’t know how Mr. Braham manages
it but wc do know that he is gaining flesh and can
laugh as heartily and joke as merrily as a married
man who has sent his mother-in-law out to drive a
bolting horse.
• • •
If we ever get rich we are going to run a
Minstrel show. Not because we want fame, for
that is mere dross. We would rather wear the
smile that spreads its expansive self ail over Fred
Hiscock’s face and a part of his neck than to be
presented with a wash-bill or a pair of twins. By
the way, Hiscocks has returned from Melbourne
or somewhere that he has been for a week or ten
days. If we were to tell you what he went away
for you would know why he came back. But
we’re not going to tell you. School’s out, and any-
way we don't know. We could know if we wanted
to but we don’t want to. We know so much now
that our head hurts and when we get up in the
morning and look in the mirror we have to use a
shoe-horn and an ounce of soap stone to put our
hat on with.
* * •
Even dramatic critics are liable to error.
We never knew this until one day a man of tragic
mien, who stood six-foot-two in his stockings,
came around with a heavy billet of wood and re-
minded us of it. The man is dead now—fast asleep
beneath the cactus plants that wave their delicate
out-riggers in tho balmy breeze of the Rocky
Mountains. We didn’t bury him. Our time Was
limited. Wo left him to the tender care of other
bands who were busy knotting a hemp rope. We
didn’t inquire who the rope was for. It doesn’t
pay to be too inquisitive, at times. But what we
were getting at is that we made a mistake last
week-not a very bad one, but still it was a mis-
take. We located Sam Keenan’s mouth on Horace
Bent’s face. Perhaps that is the reason why
Horace went off Thursday night, and got well,
we don’t know what he got, but we have an idea
that Lou Braham gave him something hotter
than ice-water. The worst thing about the mis-
take is that Sam Keenan sits on one side of the
stage and Horace on the other. How we ever
shitted that mouth so far is a perplexing mystery.
The only thing we can lay it to is a pair of cross-
eyed opera-glasses that Tom Kennedy lent us at
the door. Anyway, Sam Keenan Girards himself
about so awfully that nobody can tell where he is
half the time. He hasn’t done his best trick yet.
lou have seen him put his head and feet together
and slide through a bottomless cask. That’s no-
thing. You should see him knock the bung out
of a barrel of rum and go inside and help himself.
« * •
The double-voiced vocalist is still Carroll-
ing away. We met Mr. Carroll the other day. He
wasn’t singing at the time. Me was shouting, it
is needless to say that we-[Oh, yes; we know that
you ioinod in. Ed. B.]-that we didn’t join. We
don’t drink with everybody. They don’t always
ask us. (Got you that time, Mr. Ed. B.) It beats
all wh it a lot of ladies throng into tho Academy.
One doesn’t know whether they go to hear the
tenor solos or to look at each other and at us. AVe
saw a good many people looking about curiously
the other night, but none of them saw us. We
weren’t there: we were at the Gaiety,
* * * *
Not to keep you in suspense, we will inform
you that tho celebrated Eondon drama entitled,
*’ The cquue,” about whose authorship there has
been so much newspaper controversy, is now
running at the Gaiety. Wybert Reeve brought it
out from home along with "Passion.” Some
people have an idea that “ Passion ” is dead ; but
It’s not. lo has only been laid away on the shelf
alongside of a piece of Limburger cheese and it is
the cheese that you “notice.”
• • ♦
The “Squire,” however, is a rattling good
three-act drama. Wybert Reeve as Lieutenant
Thorndyke, has an opportunity tor some fine
acting, aud he improves the chance. And
who do you think plays the Squire V Edwin
Palmer? No. Mr. Carden ? No. Mr. Appleton ?
No. Nor any other horrid man. It isn’t that kind
of a Squire. Maggie Knight plays the role, and
plays it with a vim that aoes one good to go out
between the acts. Edwin Palmer has got to be a
parson at last. A short time ago he was a mail-
'oarrier ; a little before that, down in Melbourne,
he was one of the worst of the "Forty Thieves”
at the Bijou. And he hsvs got his owi nose on
again. Tne last one he wore was such an awful
pug that he had to stand on his nead to blow it.
Like a good many other parsons the Rev. Paul
Dormer thinks a lot of mean tnings about every-
body, except himself. Some people are that way.
In this particular make-up, Edwin looks pious
enough to up-set his wife a hop-beer mash, t© keep
it fr»m “working” on Sunday. Stopping a wind-
mill is nowhere.
« * l
We don’t intend to harrow up your system
with the plot-narrativo of “ The Squire.” It isn’t
worth while. Those who don’t care enough about
this celebrated piece as a literary production to
go and see it can.stay at home and read about it in
the religious dailies which have room for the
“ enthronement ” of Bishops, and fatal prize-fights,
and things. Life and our space are both too short
for such trifles. AVheu we wore young and guile-
less and thought nothing of paying the cab-drivers
who hauled us about, we had a notion to write a
Play, A bigger notion not to, however, got away
witn us, and . the result has been all this contro-
versy about the authorship of “ The Squire.” Had
we written it years ago, as we thought of doing,
this trouble would have been avoided. As it is,
the play will go down to posterity like a speckled
hen on an ice-berg, to find an unknown grave at
last.
» • •
Mr. James Carden appears as an aspiring
genius under the title of Gilbert Hythe. Mr.
Carden is a good enough actor, but what business
fas a bluff old bailiff falling in love with a nice
little Squire like Maggie Knight. And she mar-
tied too. But he didn't know that and when
he found it out all of a sudden he nearly took the
measles and died. Only the other night as tho
Queensland Premier he w as desperately in love with
Constance Valiancy, an adventuress, aud those
who saw him there thought he would never
recover. The object of his malaria was perfectly
heartless, and he went moping around like a sick
mhy-goat in a rain-storm. Some men are funny
that way. One day you’ll see them hanging on the
tagged edge of despair because some girl has
lilted them, and the next you’ll see them pouring
flquid caromels into some other girl’s ear at the
tate of a gallon a minute. If we hadn’t any more
constancy about us than that, half the “pubs”
m our neighbourhood would become insolvent.
■™t. p. c. Appleton, as Gunnion, a growling
oid peasant, announced the fact that he “ hadn’t a
J°oth in bis head.” But if you could only see him
jackle a platter of fried tripe, you would begin to
imagine that he had a full set of sound teeth that
he had lately been edging up with a tile. In some
places he is so funny that yon would like to see
him loaded into a mountain howitzer and blown
through a bramble bush into the middle of next
week. There are other people in the cast that we
intend to speak about some day, when we’re just
in trim after having three plates of saw-teeth.
We always feel most like writing after a good,
appetising meal of saw-teeth.
* ® •
AVe forgot to mention that once when we
went out between the acts we stood beside a gentle-
man with whom we had been discussing the Land
question. He said: “ I’ll take whisky; and to show
I’m unprejudiced, I’ll take ‘ Ir sh ’ whisky, but I’ll
have a dash of ‘ Orange Bitters ’ in it just to take
the damned Fenianism out of it.”
* * * *
The Silver King isn’t dead yet. but we wish
he were. If he don’t die pretty soon, we will kill
ourselves trying to say something about him that
we haven’t thought of before. It is discouraging
to a writer whose mission is to elevate the standard
of the stage—to “ rise ” it, as it were—to see a man
like Mr. Tltheradge pay so little attention to
kindly and intelligent criticism. We told him the
other day that his make-up as the Silver King was
faulty, in that he didn’t carry a bowie-knife in his
hoot-leg, two revolvers at his back, nor a four-
ounce chew of tobacco in his left cheek. We will
give him credit for a partial effort to he true to
nature. He didn’t get the bowie nor the revolvers,
bat he did come on the stage the other night
chewing a “ quid ” of tobacco. That’s what made
Annie Mayor faint away twice between the scenes,
and now she is reported as dangerously ill. And
you want to know who Is taking her part? Well,
you wouldn’t believe it. Miss Maggie Moore, who
has so long been thought of only as a comedienne.
If you ever saw Maggie as Lizzie Stofel you would
never suspect that she could play such a part as
Nellie Denver. But she can play it, and does play
it, with an attention to detail, and with a power
and pathos that no one thought her capable of. If
you are familiar with Miss Moore's acting in
comedy, go and see her in the “ Silver King,” and
treat yourself to a surprise. This is certainly the
greatest triumph she has ever scored. There,
now, that is more praise than we ever gave any-
body before, and we’ll bet you drinks all round
that the editor will knock that last line out when
he sees it in the “ revise.” [No, he’ll not, but he’ll
knock you out if you do it again.—Ed. B ]
* * ♦
The first thrashing we ever got was for
going to a theatre. Our mother said she only
had one bantam hen, and was saving up those
eggs for a sitting. How things do change. Now
we are paid for going, hut have demanded an in-
crease in salary, because the Theatre Royal people
won’t give us anything new to write about.
Speaking of wages reminds us that there is no-
thing small about us except our feet and salary.
We wear number nines. We would rather have
had sevens, but there was only one pair in the hall
that night, and we had to make the best of it. As
to salary, we hardly get a fair show. You see. we
are in partnership with the proof-reader, and he
draws the pay. The result is that he gets the
chickens, and we get the feathers. Now, isn’t that
a light salary ? Bub that’s what makes us so funny.
You don’t believe it. perhaps; but you swallow a
feather or two, and it will tickle you so that you
can laugh at one of our jokes.
d • •
Now that we happen to think of it, we
have never said anything about Mr. Stirling
Whyte’s Sam Baxter. For this, no doubt, Mr.
Whyte is duly thankful. If he isn’t he ought to
be. We are down on detectives. Not that they
have ever done us any particular harm, but we’ve
always been afraid they would arrest us for an
American infernal machine because we blow
people up so. But it is only when they sit on us
that we go off. We had something to say
about Mr. Whyte, as the Scotland Yard detec-
tive, but we’ve lost it for the moment. He has a
partner, Mr. T. Miles. That’s a good name for a
detective. AVhen anything happens they are gen-
erally Miles away; aud they manage to keep their
distance pretty well, too. Mr. Miles makes us
think of old times. He is greatly like our first
wife's husband—ho is of so little account.
* * *
Mr. W. H. Seagrave and Mr. J. Lawson are
betting men, who have just returned from the
Derby. We knew them at once by their make-up.
Seagrave looks just like the man who told us to
back Stockwell tor the Melbourne Cup. And Law-
son is the man who got up a sweep in which we held
the winner, and who then sloped with the money.
Now, that’s what make-up does for a man. If you
saw them off the stage, you would take them for a
Methodist parsonage with the church next door.
Mr. J. Hasker looks like a Railway Porter; but he
has one glaring fault, and that is he is too civil.
We never see a. porter but that we want to kill him,
or throw a cat at him, or something. AVhen we were
a boy, and used to try to steal a ride on tho freight-
trucks and get our lees cut off,the porter was al ways
sneaking* around, until we pulled the tail out of
his rooster for revenge. Elijah Cqombe looks like
the man who stole our landlady s dog and sold him
and then came back to pay his hill with the money;
but we were told not to say anything about this
If we didn’t want to be poisoned. Never mmd.
Wc like “ poison,” and are not particular as to the
brand, either.
* * * *
It never rains but it pours, and it never
pours that we aren’t out somewhere without an
umbrella. That was the case with us Monday
evening, when we went to the Opera House to see
“ An Arabian Night;” and it was an Arabian night,
with a vengeance. We wore very sorry that the
Night hadn’t stayed in Arabia. It was altogether
too wet for our use. We like a wet once m a
while, but we take ours from a tumbler. But the
play? Well, the play is a very laughable im-
probability—a compound of farce and comedy
that makes your sides ache and the man who sits
beside you ask you out between the acts. Mr.
Polk seems to have a penchant for pieces that
place him in difficult and embarrassing situations,
and Mrs. Polk is nearly always the injured inno-
cent, who takes everything as though sure that
something better would come at last. Alexander
Sprinkle (Mr. Polk) is a young married man, whose
wife (Miss Ruth Gray) is away on a visit. The
family are very high-toned, but during the
absence of Mrs. Sprinkle, Mr. Sprinkle gets
up a flirtation with a pretty circus rider
named Rosa Maybloom (Mrs. Polk). This
would go on well enough if it. wasn t for Mrs,
Weebles, Sprinkle’s mother-in-law (Mrs. E. Bryer)
and a lot of other people who are always appear-
ing on the scene at the most inopportune time.
* * *
Mrs. Weebles is au ideal mother-in-law,
but you can have her. We wouldn’t tor the
world. We never had a mother-in-law we
don’t want one, that is, a live one. If Mrs. AVeebles
belonged to us we should send her on a ,
through Victoria, and then we should watch the
daily papers for accounts of railway accidents.
About the second day perhaps the melancholy
intelligence would be flashed along the wires that
—but no matter. You can imagine what we are
trving to get at—a mangled mother-in-law. Mrs.
Bryer’s ability in this particular line of acting is
simply immense. She is just getting her hand in
perhaps for effective work in years to come. It
this doesn’t frighten Lillie’s young man, he has
got more sand than a blue game rooster. And this
i ust reminds us that Miss Bryer is a very clever little
actress. AVe intended to say this last week when
we saw her in the “Strategist,” hut we had so
many people to touch up that we couldn t grlve
any of them more than a lick and a promise. The
intention will go along with thousands of other
good ones that we made before. Never mind.
We’ve got a contract for seventeen square miles
of that pavement, and are only laying in stock.
When the folks who now talk about us go pro-
menading down below they may appreciate our
efforts to please them at last. But it they don t,
even then we shall not weep. Wo shall be loafing
around on the jasper Avails, or sitting m a Private
box at a moonlight concert around the throne.
• • •
Harry Power, who played Terrance
OTlam in the “Strategist” so capitally, is cast m
the present piece as Hercules Sermith, a cannon-
ball performer. And this reminds us that we have
been glancing over the pages of his little book,
entitled, “ Leaves from the life of an Australian
Comedian,” and we pronounce them very much
more entertaining than the “ Leaves from Our
Life In the Highlands,” the perusal of which made
us so awfully bilious. Harry’s style is pleasant
and gossipy, and makes you wonder how a man,
who can handle cannon-balls so wonderfully, can
also handle a pen.
* * * *
Observe. An entertainment by the Lotos
Amateur Dramatic Club was given at the Peter-
sham Town Hall, on Friday nis/ht last, under the
distinguished patronage and direction of Samuel
Poole, Esq., actor and man of esprit. Our critic
attended, but is unable to give a report of the
affair this week in consequence of having to attend
the funeral of his uncle, the mule. He feels that it
would savour of levity to write in his usual humor-
ous and airy manner immediately after suffering
such a bereavement. AVe agree with him—with
the proviso that not more than one per month of
his relatives shall die in future. The notice will
appear next week.
* * * *
Here is a sample slice from Burnand’s new
burlesque, “ Pan Claudian.” It is the curse of
“ Coal-Holey ” Clement
“ * Be young for ever through the centuries I’
See melodramas everywhere produced ;
See pieces come to theatres to be goos’d ;
See theatres come to pieces as they will—
But thou live on. Be Claudian running still I
Thy warlike course thou’lt run for many years,
Drawing pit, stalls, and boxes, drawing tiers ;
1 The innocent sunshine shall d'e out before.’
You enter ev’ry night by the stage-door,
Except in summer : your black little fellow
AVho follows shall grow up and piay Othello I
But thou shalt still be Claudian, have to do it
Night after night compelled to go right through it
And be as fresh as ever ! Herman Wills
AVill struggle on by taking Parr’s life pills.
Shall disappear I Yet on and on you’ll piay.
Saying the lines that are * hard lines ’ to say,
Until an audience its sides shall split
And you bring down the house, reduce the pit,
And rows of stalls—yet Claudian will not stop ;
But when, night after night, the houses drop,
And ‘ Order’ reigns supreme, then you will choose
AVhetbor you’ll finish or go on and lose !
Till then I leave you and so ends the cuss I”
Not so great, is it ? We would back A. G. Taylor
to frame a better one with no finer inspiration
than hair-oil. But then A. G. Taylor is one man
and Burnand another. There is not much literary
wit in London now. Burnand is running to -eed,
Calverley and N. J. Byron are dead. There never
was a better opportunity for new wit in London.
This is a chance for the Shroud and Echo
humourists. Their wit would be new here, so it
is fair to argue that it would be new there. And
we think we could spare them—which is perhaps
more than most of their readers would.
Down at St. Arnaud (Vic.) Fisher, an auc-
tioneer, passed some small quantity of goods under
the hammer and accepted a p.n. as payment. The
p.N. was dishonoured. Vowels, on whose behalf
the goods were auctioned, sued Fisher for the
amount involved. Vowels’ court gave it against
Fisher. Fisher was dissatisfied, and brought up
Vowels for another hearing. Fisher’s court gave
it against Vowels. It will be Vowels’ turn next,
and then Fisher will be allowed to kick the ball,
and then Vowels, and so on. And the St. Arnaud
people say the point is a peculiarly interesting one,
and that Fisher and Vowels are showing true grit
in lighting it out: and whereas Fisher and Vowels
are paying all the expenses, one can see that the
eggihg on comes 1 rom the heart.
Hero are some gems from Lome’s “ Memo-
ries of Canada and Scotland ” ; we submit them
as hopeless conundrums, having exhausted pro-
digious efforts in a irantic struggle to get at their
meaning :—
“ Away to the West! Westward ho! Westward ho!
Where rooted in freedom shall Liberty grow I”
“ Here Rose and Magnolia
Our dearest enshrine.
The prayer of the south wind
Is thine and is mine,
For Child and for Mother
Here sweetly twice isied.
Brave seamen are praying
For Mother and Child.”
“ ‘ You deem a nation here shall stand,
United, great, and free ?’ ”
Yes, see how Liberty’s own hand
With ours the continent hath spanned,
Strong-arched from sea to sea ;
Our Canada’s her chosen land,
Her roof and crown to be.”
We wonder if Lome sent up such stuff as that for
English verso when he was at school. But perhaps
the seat of his trews was ironplated by the kind
provision of his ma. No wonder Louise’s temper
is short with such a jackass puling around.
Another Fenian outrage about to be per-
petrated! O’Donovan Kossa howling drunk with
joy, and Joe Biggar ditto ditto with Cavan
whishky! Michael Davitt declares he sees dawn at
last, and Pat Ford, of the Irish World, has had his
boots half-soled and heeled I In a recent number
of Knowledge, R. A. Proctor saysThere are
causes in operation which, if they continue to act
unchecked, will, in the course of time, produce,
not merely the downfall, but the absolute des-
tructlon and obliteration of Great Britain. Not
only has this opinion been previously expressed by
the most eminent scientific men; by such great
authorities as Sir Charles Lyelland Sir John Her-
schel, but it does not admit of the slightest doubt
or uncertainty. Britannia, though doubtless the
pride of the ocean,’ is being quietly but remorse-
lessly! absorbed by the sea-waves. The process is
one which—unless hastened by unforseen but pos-
sible changes—must take many ages It Is also a
process which may be, and probably has often
been, interfered with in a summary manner. But
no doubt whatever can exist that the procecs is
now in steady operation, and that its effects are far
from being insignificant.” Mr. Proctor’s state-
ments have caused the wildest alarm in London,
and in view of his terrible prophesy, many pru-
dent persons have broken up house-keeping and
gone in to lodgings, and a Gravel Lane man has
sold his interest in a hot saveloy can and a bran-
new wife for a steerage passage to San Francisco.
“Britannia rules the waves” is played out, and
now the waves are about to rule Britannia.
The 3rd number of the Sydney Quarterly
Magazine contains one or two good things. The
verses by the poetical C.M.G., are the best we ever
read of his. "Thought’s” paper on “Justice’’
contains a lot of sensible ideas, as also does H. W.
S. Edmunds’s on “Social Science” (though the
latter article sadly needs compression, “ miller
almost drowned in superfluous padding.”) Bourne’s
History of N.S.W. drags its slow lenarth
along — only it’s not history — merely a lot
of data — mixed up promiscuously. Bayley
White comes to the conclusion that “Prayer
is “an exercise at once illogical and unwar-
ran table.” Frances G. Holden forcibly advo-
cates “Petticoat Government,” to the extent of
“ women’s work being under the control of
women.” We agree. G. E. Boxall maintains in
his “Dextral and Sinistra! Nature” that “very
slight correction at an early age is sufficient to
change not only man but any individual of the
animal or vegetable Kingdom from dextral to
slnistral,” which would be very useful were we to
box, all. “ Alpha Beta’s ” paper on Henry Kendall
would have been all the better for a deal of dele-
tion. Dr. Brereton’s “pome” is a liquid lapse of
bathos. A. B. Camm puts in a word for the Stage;
and J. Jefferis, L.L.B., in the most unscientific
manner conceivable dogmatises about what he
terms the highest teachings of astronomy, sneer-
ing as he does so (as becomes a divine), at the men
of science who limit their work to the investiga-
tion of facts. Astronomy outside of tacts is a
very large field, and in it Jefferis disports himself
with amazing audacity and a quite typical clerical
indifference to logical requirements.


A TAUNT TO THE TONTINES.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
’Tis midnight, and the wind stirs to and fro
The ghostly tapestry. The light burns low—
A fitful wavering of glow and gloom
Alternates in one Sacrificing Room,
And now it half conceals, now half illumes,
A row of sculls that had known honoured tombs
But for our pen of unrelenting nib,
Wrought from a bygone legislator’s rib—
But for our taper fed with statesman’s grease.
Had ne’er adorned our marble mantelpiece.
This is our study, where by night we sit
And blind the world with meteoric wit;
Therefrom outflows the music that regales
The captivated ear of New South Wales ;
Here lightning bolts of irony have birth
That shrivel all the little gods of Earth ;
Here, Timon-like, we hide, and when the night
Is blackest, seize our fatal pen and write
Strong curses upon all the great and good ;
No ink we use, but Holy Roman blood
Well thinned with bitter Presbyterian gall,
Wherewith we trace, as on Belshazzer’s wall
The mystic hand traced, words of scathing fear
That prospering hypocrites grow white to hear.
What shall we write about—for write we must.
Last week we spent in a protracted bust,
And grocers coldly pass us by, and frown,
And butchers will no longer put it down ;
Our baker, too—it’s like his blasted cheek—
Requests us to pay up the lot this week.
What shall wo rail upon—what shall engage
Our ghastly pen through livid page on page ?
Let’s see ; the Maccalone’s aggressive roar
Through this glad colony resounds no more.
No more fierce statements of rubescent dye
ft aani i the modest ears of Gundagal;
And Mudgeo Taylor’s voice comes faint and far
In muffled “ Why’s?” across the pad-locked bar ;
And Watson has supplied a long-felt Want,
And Honesty’s new name is ******* *****,
And Bladen sings not, and Sir ’Enery Parkes
In England deigns to make but few remarks,
And Brown is bung (and ere his corse was cold
Death yet another win on Leo-polled),
And Pyn in silence now his muse immews,
And mews no further; and the Evening News,
Believing yet it has a soul to lose,
Throws up its hat for Bishop Barry’s views,
Yet hardly quite eschews the double-dyed,
Nor quite lets interest and incest slide ;
And some believe that ******** is a skunk,
And Melville fancies Handsaker gets drunk—
So drunk that, if on oath before his Maker,
He couldn’t tell “ a hawk from a handsaker
(That’s Hamlet spread a bit); and Hanlan’s stale,
and Miller tame as any thrice-told tale ;
The Land Bill is a subject worn as flat
As we have made the Ooonanbarra hat;
And Gussy’s chickens, and Big John’s wee turn,
Are sick as Temperance leaders in the Rum.
What shall we write upon ? Ay 1 there’s the rub.
Alack 1 that such a dom’d low thing as grub
Should make it needful—not to speak of drink—
To sit among our skulls, and think, and think,
What shall we write upon ? Alas I it seems
That we must pause, for pause-ity of themes.
And paper, too—our sugar bagslare gone—
We rise to ask— What shall we write upon ?
Ha 1 here it is—a poster on the floor ;
’Twill serve our turn mayhap, and tide us o’er
The present trouble ; but, how came it here ?
Of late we’ve been so much “bemused with beer’*
We know not—but what matter. Let us read :—
“Free Distribution ”—O, here's joy, indeed 1—
“ Of Land and Property.” By Henry George I
Already they’re commencing to disgorge,
These bashful Plutocrats, the People’ lands—
But hold—lower down a bit they show their hands;
Or rather (don’t you think this couplet neat ?)
Show patent cow-hide can hide cloven feet.
Lower down the reason, at a glance is found
Of all this bliss. Each ticket is—A Pound 1
Here is an opening without a hitch
For all the poor to drop it and be rich ;
Here is a chance for labour to be crowned
With wealth—for what the devil is a pound ?
Boll up here, gemmen, and let each who roils
For ever say farewell to coloured moles.
Boll up—no gambling about this—and “ part,”
And back your chances for a work of Art.
No lottery business here—no sinful games—
Just read the list of “ honourable names ”;
You’ll see that everything is quite the cheese—
No welohers mixed with us, but real M.P.’s.
The works of Art are solid—no mere plasters,
The land is by the oldest of old Masters,
And you’ll admit, and hardly think it odd.
No landscape artist else comes up to God.
There is a depth and breadth about His art
That gives it prominence. Now, then, who’ll start?
That’s just about the easy, fluent style
Of those who rob the widow while they smile ;
That is the slang, but differing in degree,
In this fair land of Sharper and M.P.
This is the eloquence of men who seek
To grab his pound, who gets a pound a week;
Alike in senate or on racecourse, this
His tone who yearns to nail what isn’t his.
We thank thee, Poster, though we don’t plank
down , ,
On thy fair promises one single brown.
We thank thee, and upon thy worthless back
Our demon pen shall leave its gory track,
As on their backs should the Inquiring cat.
Who, leading men, yet hanker to “ get at ”
The scanty earnings of confiding fools
Through God’s fair gifts disposed in Devil’s pools.
We doubly thank thee, thou hast given us text
And paper, when for both we stood perplexed,
And so we cry—like Glamls’ wife unsoxed—
“All ruth, avaunt I Our cruel nib shall drink
Deep from this vial of Swinburnian ink,
And tell these kid-gloved gamblers what wo
think.”
•
We think—we swear with hand upheld to Heaven—
The wretch who lives at under-or-over-seven.
Who marks the date of every country race,
And humps his paltry kit from place to place,
Dogged by the “cops,” before police courts luggqd,
Or earnestly by back-block losers “ plugged,”
Who grievously drags on from year to year
A shameful, shambling life of fraud and fear ;
Who seeks his puny welfare to advance
By any swindling, shilling game of chance ;
And, knowing not the paths of Politics,
Dares not go In for large and legal tricks ;
The ribald spieler bred in wicked ways,
Who lays you “level on the bays and grays,”
And frequently goes up for seven days,
Is twice more manful than is one of these,
E’en though they hold Commissions of the Peace,
He risks his liberty to gamble—they
Not even their “ honour ” in the heavier play ;
He plays for shillings—they, who sit and frame
The laws that tell men they are not to game,
For pounds, and tens of thousands, too, at that.
And, in effect, send round the high-crowned hat
For contributions in their Godless sweeps.
While Justice yawns “More Art Unions and
sleeps—
We swear the cabbage-hoeing Chinaman,
Who spends long, chatty evenings at Fan-tan,
And cracks the laughterless Confucian joke
In some vile hut obscure with opium smoke,
Compelled by righteous rulers to abide
By righteous laws—which means compelled to hide
And play in guarded hovels, whore the eye
Of Holy Roman “sargints” cannot pry—
Who year by year stakes all the sordid means
Ho wins by huckstering in spuds and greens.
In the same hope that burns in Christian souls
Of passing free where others pay the tolls,
Who, bowing to all Christian shrines of vice,
Scarce saves enough to buy his daily rice,
Yet seeks to hold his Pagan soul from loss
By tribute to his wall-eyed, wooden Joss,
Is twice as good, according to his lights,
As any of these Christ-emancipated whites,
And twice as pardonable, too, for ho
First makes the God to which ho bends the knee.
He takes up no collection—goes alone.
And what he risks at least is all his own ;
But these—our Lawmakers, the men who stand
On high, as leaders in a Christian land,
For whoso especial help the stainless Christ
On Calvary’s high cross hung sacrificed,
Who build cathedrals in His name, and walk
Thereto, as though their souls were white as chalk
Who turn their moted eyes across the sea.
And cry “ Lord I save the heathen of Fiji,”
And send the Word to which their lives cry
“ Bah !”
As far as dusk Borriobooloo-Gha—
Props of the Church, who with the Bishops dine
And praise his zeal and his expensive wine,
Discuss how best this dangerous Freethought
Among the working classes, may be fought,
How best morality be spread abroad,
And money made to help the work of God;
These Changs of righteousness, who love to show
Large in their rectitude to men below;
Preach Faith and Truth, yet all Uriah Heep
At heart, promote the profitable Sweep,
And less their own than others’ money risk—
We think the cloak of the lamented Fisk
Is on them, and—-hear, honoured sirs I—we think
The play is something lower than the Chink.
Now, having added more M'Tavish gall
To our curst pot—good Nib impale them all I
Tell them they’re humbugs, and if one replies
Acquaint him that “he lies, and lies, and lies; ”
Who are these Peabodys, who chuck around
Promiscuous fortunes for a single pound ?
We’ll turn the poster up again and read :—
First, Yooey Taylor, Esq. 1 H’m! Indeed !
A known philanthropist—our memory’s dim—
But we’ve some recollection about him,
Endowing a hospital—by the Mass
We’re not quite sure—for erysipelas;
Next on the list wo are confronted with
The erstwhile honoured name of Sydney Smith,
And next in turn upon this shining band
Comes “honest,” not lago—Sutherland;
Behind him W. Proctor, Esquire—then
One who's a fitting Targett for oar pen;
Then him for whom the Poor Men scored a win,
The money-burdened Sydney Burdekin ;
Chapman and Mudgee ne*t vre see with See
(And why not Nipper here as weU as he)?
And last and lowest (on the list, we mean,)
Another high-souled member comes—Levien 1
This is the phalanx that has made a start
To teach the land the latest thing in Art.
These are the prophets of an epoch new.
Who preach that what is beautiful is true
(Lord Lytton, we believe, said this before);
Who holds that all the canons taught of yore—
That things material, marketable, Real,
Have not the splendour of the dim Ideal
Are false—that naught on canvas can arouse
Our hearts as much as a two-storey house;
That naught created by the sculptor’s hand
Has half the glory of—a bit of Land.
Unselfish dreamers, who. full in the van
Of Time (just rather full), hold out a plan
Of Town Allotments, and, with hand on heart,
Exclaim, “Behold the Genuine in Art;”
And add to rustics hovering moth-like round
“Learn the new Creed-each lesson is a pound.”
Of course they’re genuine—if they were net,
And only sought to make a common “ pot,”
“ Why,” oh (your thunder, crumpled Mudgee) why
The devil couldn’t they conspire to buy
Up aU the tickets in this lot, and bo
Rich in Art treasures to eternity ?
But shame upon the thought, undying shame
On him who thinks that Bullion is their game,
Who lend their “ honoured names ” to educate
Young artists to draw lots for Beal Estate.
Prosper the Pioneers (’tis half past five—
Up the cold street we hear the milkman drive)
Prosper their precepts (when wo started first
To write, our soul was angry, and athirst
For blo»d, and sacrifice, and general flames.
But now, we see, their “honourable names”
Were lent to honourable objects, and
Remind them there’s a palm upon our hand).
Prosper Ait-Unions!—let the mandate go
Abroad through all the land, to high and low:
To those with property they’ve sought to sell,
In vain, let someone the glad tidings tell;
Let raffles ring in every street—you bet
They will—the thing's not fairly started yet.
No doubt, when once it gets a proper hold,
All works of art will fetch their weight in gold;
In time our “ uncle ” will Tontine old suits,
And thirsty swipers “ distribute ” their boots;
And needy parsons in some country town
“ Get off ” old surplices at half-o-crown;
And wealth will multiply, and crime will cease,
And each can “ give away ” and live at ease,
Robed in resulting affluence and silk
He's been, and gone, and never left the milk I
We have discovered a genius who illu-
mines, in the intervals of stump-grubbing- and
fencing, atPlcola, Vic., the pages of the Nath alia
Salas with the following side-splitting anecdote:
—“ Seated at dinner with his six year old son, who
took rather longer than was deemed necessary
over his meal, the parent says: ‘You are very
slow at your meals, Johny (sic) ; you take much
longer than either mamma or I do to eat your
dinner.’ Turning gravely to his paternal relative,
the youth replied; ‘Yes! but you got big mouths,
and I only got a little one.’ It is needless to re-
mark that the discussion was resumed no further.”
Yes, we should; that was a staggerer for the proud
parent, but if the gentle youth swallows his pa’s
statements in the Press bis mouth will soon be big
enough to take in his rations with such dispatch
that he will have to be heavilly handicapped at
meal times if his pa and ma are to have any show.
A stanza sent by Tennyson to be sold at
the bazaar held recently in London, in aid of the
funds of the Chelsea Hospital for women, runs
this way :—
“ Not he that breaks the dams, but he
That through the channels of the State
Conveys the people’s wish, is great,
His name is pure, his fame is free.”
Is there not another half to this thought ? Or will
the poet of progressive constitutionalism think
the bard mad who tenders this as the complement
of the foregoing :—
Unless my lord, the nation pines.
And all the channels have run dry.
And, blocked with precedents, deny
The drink before its strength declines.
And then his name and fame are good—
As lands attest that speak in words
More lasting than a new-made lord’c—
' Who bursts the dams and brings the Hood.
FEET OF EXPERTNESS
PEPPER AND SALT.
This is a true tale of the North—and, for
aught we know to the contrary, of divers other
points of the compass also. A well-known and
respected selector sent some wool to certain
woolbrokers down South for sale. The playful
knights of the hammer wired him back to the
effect that the highest price that they could get
for his stock was ninepence per lb. Rut the wool-
owner, finding other quotations stood at eleven-
pence (which was his own reserve), went in unto
himself for a consultation, and when he came out
again he instructed his brokers to take off the
reserve, and sell on a certain date. And then dig.
guising himself, he started for the market place ;
attended the sale, bought in his own wool for
elevenpence, and then returned home just in time
t© find a telegram informing him that his wool
brought 8>jjd., and that the sale accounts
would be at once forwarded to him. Then
he went to the market place again; ex-
plained who he was, and what he came for
produced his papers, and then, in tones as freezing
as the back end of the Arctic Sea in winter, asked
which was the best lawyer in the land to retain on
a ease of downright, barefaced fraud. None of
the brokers seemed to know, but one, more
thoughtful than ths rest, said he had a new style
of cheque book in his drawer, and Invited the
selector into his room to inspect the novelty.
When the latter gentleman came out again he
said that there was never much satisfaction in
going to law, and so, after telling his broker
friends that “ this rain would do a deal o’good ”he
took one of the new cheques round to a certain
banker who gave him £340 for it. Moral : Honesty
is the best policy—for those who cannot do any-
thing better.
• • •
Are you insured ? If not, why not ? How
do you think your widow will ever get a man to
wear out your old pants if she hasn’t a couple of
hundred of your hard-earned pounds to keep the
next candidate for marital honours in sixpenny
cigars and Jamieson’s whusky, and all the other
necessaries of life ? Have you ever thought of
this ? But, above all things, how in thunder have
you managed to slip that fiend in human form, the
average insurance agent ? As a sample of what
these roaring lions can do, the following true tale
is interesting. Way down about the Goulburn
district, a ,f Hr mer having sold his load of grain in
town went Into a pub. just to see what time it was.
As it wasn’t e aotly the time he wanted, he
thought he’d sit down for a while and watch
how the corn was gently waving. About two
hours after this, a most gentlemanly-looking
stranger said he “didn’t mind if he did,’’ and then*
having wisped the froth off his mouth, he lifted
the farmer into his cart and perched himself beside
him. As they jogged along the gentlemanly
stranger held the farmer up by the hair of the
head, and explained the advantage to be derived
from assuring his life under table B, and finally
drove him round to a doctor, put him through
and pocketing his fees went off on his way rejoic-
ing. Next morning, the husbandman found his
cash short, but the balance was fairly represented
by the Insurance sheet. And the agent’s private
report described the old boozer as being a sober
and temperate man for the past 20 years.
• * *
Fact this. Popular barrister and friends in
the private parlour of the Royal, Dubbo, after a
most successful circuit. “ Ah, wed, I canna com-
plain o’ Dubboo ; it’s a braw toon, an’ there’s
always a guid calendar, so now, ma frens, I think
it’s my turn t’ shout. Waiter I bring us in a bottle
o’ colonial wine an’ glasses for seven.”
* * *
The Domain howlers were in particularly
good form on Sunday last, and did yeoman service
in the way of keeping hundreds of respectable*
peace-loving citizens from en joying a quiet stroll
and a mouthful or two of Nature’s glorious
oxygen. About 4 p.m. the row would have done
credit to Paddy’s Market on Chr istmas Eve, and
in some cases the proceedings were, to say the
least, quite as edifying as a Rand wick “mill,”
and as orderly as a Lane Cove cock-fight. One
apostle, who looked like a walking advertise-
ment for a third-rate pawnshop, was neadtw
knocked off his perch in this way. “ Par-
sons an’ preachers hev t’ go ter collidge,’’
roared the Domain dervish, “an’ all they gives
you when they comes out is the-erlogicil sermuns
and long-winded jaw-breakin’ stuff wot no one can
understan’, but I thank the Lor’ that He hez
opened my mouth so thet I kin preach without
eny learnin’.” “Just so,” said a vinegar-faced
man in the crowd: “Balaam’s ass and yourself
would make a most worthy pair of preachers, both
being blessed in the same manner.” But the
apostle on the stump happened to be deaf in that
ear, and went on to tell how many cart loads of
sulphur are burnt in Hell dui’ing a bad winter.
* • *
Young men, be virtuous, and rest assured
the poor-house authorities will make all arrange-
ments for your funeral. In the thriving little city
of Nevermindwhere, a good young clerk who
attended Sunday-school regularly, and in whose
innocent mouth butter wouldn’t melt even if you
poked him into a baker’s oven, noticed that the
boss of his department was quietly, but actively,
engaged in swindling his employers. So, acting
on his religious teaching, he muttered a short
prayer, and then walked up to the head of the
firm and let out all he knew. An investigation
took place, confirming the clerk’s allegations, but
the culprit was a thoroughly good business man,
and the upshot of the trouble was that an arrange-
ment was made between him and the firm for a
return of all the plunder, and the good young man
who split was dismissed for his trouble. He can-
not claim any damages or compensation, nor can
he make his late employers reward him for the
zeahhe showed on behalf of their interests, and he
holds religious scruples about applying to the em-
bezzling boss for a pflrse of sovereigns and a
testimonial.
* * *
Whittlesea Shire Council woke up the
other day, and heard the Duke of Albany was
dead. “Let us wire a condolence,” said the chair
man. “Pooh,” said one member, “it happene
long ago and the wire will likely catch
Majesty at a wedding.” “No,” said the chair-
John: “Stealee! Mo no stealee.”
Householder: “That’s all very fine. Hold up your hands.”
John: “Welly well. Therenow.”


man; “I only heard it this morning.” But,”
said another member, “ I heard them talk of it
years ago. When I was away up on he .’’
“Nonsense,” cried another, “that was Prince
Albert.” “I’m right,” said the chairman. “We’D
wire. But, as there's a doubt about who is dead
we’ll only send condolence, and if it doesn’t fit
one it’ll fit another.” And the Whittlesea Shire
Council wired.
* * *
Beyond all doubt, the skittish Dr. Price
who set fire to the corps© of his child and then
stuck straw in his hair and did a Druidical war-
danoa in his shirt round the blazing pile, was mad;
but nevertheless, there was a certain amount of
method in his madness, for when he was about to
be sent up he declared the day would soon come
when people would open their eyes to the fact
that It was “ far better to cremate a dead body
than to keep it twenty years in the ground to
poison the water, the air, and the earth.” That’s
so. And it reminds us that in almost all our
country districts, cannibalism, in a modified form
is rampant. Professor Tyndall in one of his eele
brated lectures says, “I have repeatedly seen
cows and sheep browsing on churchyard grass
which sprang from the decaying mould of dead
bodies. The flesh of these animals is a modifica-
tion of human flesh ; the self-same molecules
belonging to one body first, and afterwards, to
different others.” Dr. Dansey ought to catch on to
this at once. Cows and sheep fatten in many of
our ehyrpbyards, just the same ae those who were
interviewed by Professor Tyndall, and w 0 drink
the milk of the former and eat the flesh
of the latter; both articles as the learned
Professor points out, having at one time been
the conponent parts of our fellow creatures. This
is simply appalling. For instance. Old Mr. Nose-
blossom drank his thirty glasses of beer every day
for fitly years, or, in other figures, he wrapped
himself around exactly 27,000 pints during life,
and then he gave the brewers best; died, and was
carefully planted where his grave would be kept
in a constant state of verdure. The churchyard
to which he adjourned being in a chronic state of
dis-repair (as most of our country ones are);
Dairyman Chalkenwater's cows trooped in, eat the
grass off old Mr. Noseblossom’s mound, and con*
verted the same into m-ilk, part of which was
consumed by Mr. Nevertouchit Melville. Now, as
three parts of old Mr. Noseblossom’s remains con-
sisted of “tangle,” It is manifestly evident that
one half the milk supplied by Chalkenwater’s cows
was composed of the same intoxicating fluid, and
as Mr. Temperance Apostle Melville consumes a
quart of milk a day, it necessarily follows that he
swigs exactly 168 pints of “soldier’s joy” per
annum. And he taunts Brother Abigail with being
a moderate drinker. Again, poor dear old Mrs.
Caphipps, who was a pillar of the Croajingolong
Baptist Church, and took tits, got behind
the mailman’s horse one day and was “ exhort-
ing” the owner, when the beast (the horse, not
the mailman) took the good old lady in the
abdomen with bis heels, and her spirit soared aloft
on seraph’s wings, while her body was wafted off
to the local burial-ground on top of a baker s cart.
Young Mr. Perkins, who was the pastor of the
said church, and kept goats, had previously mar
ried old Mrs. Claphipps’ big girl, Jane, and as feed
was always scarce about his place, the goats used
to spend the best part of their time browsing
about the graveyard. In course of time, these
goats had incorporated themselves with the whole
of old Mrs. Claphipps’ body; and as beef was sub-
sequently rose to starvation prices, Mr, Perkins
ate his own goats, and, as a matter of course, de-
voured, in a condensed form, the body of his
sainted mother-in-law. We confidently assert that
so long as our present system of burial continues,
the whole of the living world will be nothing more
or less than so many cannibals who feed and fatten
on the modified flesh of the unhappy dead. Talk
about the mighty Alexander plugging up a bung-
hole. Bah! That’s nothing. Imperious Ctesar was
probably worked up into lodging-house hash, and
Cleopatra’s voluptuous form turned into desic-
cated beef to feed his Koman legions.
m • •
Last Maunday Thursday, Dr. Reynolds,
11.C. Bishop of Adelaide, performed the Lavenda—
a ceremony which, for obvious reasons, is more
honoured in the breach than in the observance.
Thirteen of the cleanest old men in the Adelaide
Destitute Asylum were trotted round to St. Francis
Xavier’s Hall, where they were perched on a stool
and told to kick off their “crabs” and look like
Father Abraham did when Mrs. Abraham presented
him with his first son and heir after 45 years of
barren wedlock. Some delay was caused by the
obstreperous conduct cf old man Parker, who
wanted to smoke all the time the Lavenda was
going on; and no little amusement was derived
from Daddy Doyle, who danced about like a Sandy
Hill Ilea on a hot plate whenever the cold water
touched his trotters, and who yelled “ The Bishop's
a-tickling of mel” every time His Lordship caught
hold of Daddy’s soles and scraped them. Of course
all these old jokers’ hoofs had be-n previously
scraped and swabbed and sand-papered and dis-
infected before His Lordship touched them; and
after he had put the final polish on the thirteen
pairs of daisy-crushers, the owners thereof were
presented with alms and treated to a good square
meal. At the banquet-board the Bishop said grace,
the covers were lifted, and then, although there
wasn't much gnashing of teeth, still the “ gum
games” that followed clearly proved that although
the venerable old roosters were slightly loose on
the head, still each man could boast of a stomach
capable of digesting anything on this earth except
broken bottles and ArchU forbesian lectures, end
could proudly point to an appetite that bad never
known a day’s illness. Next Maunday Thmsday
their feet will be washed agsin—all except Daddy
Doyle s, and he says he wouldn’t stand " that ’ere
tittliu’ agin fur a keg o’ th’ best torbacky.”
• • •
This is the country to come to. Listen
“ The other night, a new arrival at Newcastle, a
young woman, was found asleep in the gutterwith
A Temporary Eclipse.
Dramatic Light and Shade.


That Husband of Mine is three times the man
be was before he began using “Weils’ Health
Kenewer.” Druggist*. Moses. Moss & Co.. Sydney
General Agents,
her head resting on a boe -bottle, and an infant
child asleep in each arni.’« r We are surprised she
did not put one of theJnf ants under her head.
That she did is another proof of that sacred
maternal love which survives all other feelings.
Perhaps, however, she put the bottle under her
head to ensure its safety. Her precautions were in
vain: the night policeman found her. Tho history
of the bottle ends here. As for the young woman,
we suppose she is, by this time, in the street-sing-
ing business, or something equally profitable. Tho
infants are probably on the “ burst ” on their own
account. A few anecdotes of this kind, printed in
pamohlet form and circulated among the labouring
classes in the home country, should be of great
assistance to our Iraigration Agent.
• • •
Fencing is said to be the new amusement
of the ladies in Austria. Curious that fencing is
also one of the amusements of tho younger sons
of nobility who come out here to marry heiresses.
The post-and-rail variety is the most popular with
them.
• • •
Poetry from a Western paper
“ Rain I Oh, rain, cease now thy falling showers,
Thy floods of waters, thy unrelenting powers,
And sweep us not away—engulf us not.
For God is good, this cannot be our lot.”
Well, we should think not. The man who
wrote this touching apostrophe is safe, anyhow:
he was not born to be drowned. No, he was born
for a loftier fate—not entirely disconnected with a
drop. As for the other Inhabitants of the town-
ship, it cannot matter much whether they are
drowned or not. If they are, they will have plenty
of opportunity to dry themselves in the next world.
Wo expect to go to the same place ourselves. We
had other intentions some time ago, but wo have
finally come to the conclusion that Heaven would
be too lonely for us. We should not meet anyone
we knew there.
• • •
Saps a Brewarrina paper;—“The eclipse of
the moon was plainly visable in Brewarrina on
Thursday night, shortly after the publication of
our last issue.” No wonder the moon hid her face!
We saw a copy of that same issue, and we had to
hide our face. In a pewter of course. How else ?
Time cannot change, nor custom stale
Good ale!
* * *
Throe Christians of Bourke were lately
interrogated as to their mental position with re-
gard to Good Friday. Th© first replied that he did
not know what event that day commemorated. The
second was better informed. He said it was the
day on which Jesus Christ was born. The third re-
plied that it was the day on which people eat hot-
cross buns. And these were three of the most
intelligent men in tho town. Is it any wonder
that rain so seldom visits Bourke?
* ♦ ♦
Graham Berry has been successful in ap-
pointing a really first-class man as one of the
trustees to the Melbourne Public Library—in
short, he has appointed himself. There were
three vacancies, and, after Graham had fixed on
two likely parties, he came to a full stop and
blushed. Where could he put his hand upon a
third trustee—one whose personal character,
artistic training, and scholarship qualified him for
the position ? Where, indeed ? True, there were
a few men knocking about—decent sort of people
enough in their way—whoso names suggested
themselves to him, but still they scarcely possessed,
somehow, the literary and educational fitness for
the post. So Graham B, extricated himself from
the dilerana in which he was placed by naming the
one individual of whose attainments he had had
so many and varied proofs. He swallowed the
departmental plum like a patriot.
GRAHAM’S DILEMMA.
“ Let me sec,” said Graham B.,
“ ’Tis a very ticklish point,
Picking out this third trustee;
I am anxious to appoint
One who’s fairly steeped in learning,
Rich in culture—fond of art—
Stay, a thought is in me burning,
I'm the man to play tho part.”
• • •
A Land Society on “ temperance prin-
ciples ” is about to be started by some disinterested
blue-rlbbomsts of Melbourne, and a meeting—
with a temperance missionary in the chair—was
held in the Temperance Hall the other evening.
The first speaker was an auctioneer—strangely
enough—who waxed exceedingly eloquent on the
evils of supplying Intoxicants at the lively little
land sales so much affected on Saturday after-
noons. Mr. Knlpe (that’s the auctioneer’s name)
maintains that two-thirds of the purchasers at these
picnics are “ screwed ” when they make their bids,
and tho notiopmf effecting a sale under such cir-
cumstances is peculiarly repugnant to an auc-
tioneer, likeMr.Knipe; so he suggests the forming
of a Land Company, of which every member shall
be a staunch teetotaller, and himself, we presume,
the individual to wield the hammer. As nothing
stronger than ginger-ale is to be dispensed on the
ground at sales, Mr. K. thinks there will be little
fear of reckless bidding; but, to guard against the
possible contingency of someone bringing a flask
of whisky in his pocket, and persisting in getting
“ excited,” bids will be limited to a certain amount,
and no one will be permitted to make a bad bar-
gain. Altogether, this promisee as well as what
any scheme (even with the advantage of being
worked on temperance principles) could promise;
and when we mention that Peter Campbell—in
addition to the other missionary, who took the
chair—was present to countenance the movement,
anyone can see that business is meant. But re-
gretfully we record the fact that the “meeting”
took to chaffing the “ ex-bush missionary,” satiri-
cally addressing him as “ Donald Dinnie.” There
are some bad cases, you see, without any reverence
in their natures—even for such a grand institution
as Peter. , » #
The poor Bishop of Melbourne appears to
have fairly stirred up a hornet’s nest with the
letter he recently wrote to a Tam worth gentleman,
respecting “prayers for rain.” Said the worthy
Bishop, in concluding his epistle: “ When I seek
temporal blessings I ought to leave tho answer to
God, npt expecting Him, for my sake, to break
down that wholesome system of physical laws,
which it is as much for my interest as for the good
ordering of creation that He should maintain.”
Sentiments like those, you know, couldn’t be ex.
pected to meet with approval from such of the
“elect” as are large land-owners in droughty dis-
tricts, and hold strict business notions about the
power of prayer. So, no sooner had the Bishop’s
letter been published in the Melbourne D.T., than
the smug-faced gentry put their heads together to
upset the radical episcopal theory, and furnished
the D.T.—that journalistic stronghold of Melbourne
believers—with “facte,” which, “read in connec-
tion with the Bishop's letter, are opportune and
significant ” (Editor’s note.) From this holy cor-
respondence we find that “two gentlemen, deeply
sympathising with some Christian friends suffer-
ing from the effects of the severe drought, entered
into a covsnant on Friday, the 18th April,
to ask for the much-needed rain.” But it
appears, however, that they didn't make this
disinterested covenant without something to go
upon; it wasn’t a mere spiritual speculation on
their part—oh, dear, no I “ They rested their faith
on the declaration, ‘ If two agree on earth as
touching anything they shall ask, it shall be done
for them.’ ” And, sure enough, these two cove-
nanters brought it off at the very first attempt;
for, on| investing a penny in the Herald, next
afternoon, they were able to smile, with honest
pride, over the following par.:—“An exchange
telegram from Dubbo contains the gratifying
intelligence that been raining heavily there
since 3 o’clock this morning.” This interesting
letter concludes with a simple Christian sentence,
to the effect that the publication of such facts will
suggest a lesson of practical wisdom for future
emergencies. We are not told, unfortunately, at
what time these two gentlemen commenced to
carry out their compact; but, presuming that they
keep pretty late hours, it looks as though the Dubbo
rainfall commenced about the moment they got to
“ amen.” At any rate, the effect was so imm ediate
that, on the strength of it, we have instructed
the religious editor and the office boy to arrange a
covenant with the object of doubling our circu-
lation next week, and we anticipate the result with
considerable confidence. But, to return to the
Melbourne believers, we find that another one is
so anxious to remove any doubts about the
“ efficacy of praper ” that he thinks “ we ought to
agree to set apart an early day for humiliation
fasting, and prayer. Two or three will suffice (not
to test but) to prove the efficacy of prayer and the
faithfulness of God’s promises. If we ask in faith
definitely in respect to time place, and the blesing>
the issue cannot be doubtful.” Quite so ; and as
a lot more of ’em have been writing in the same
comforting way on the advantages of prayer as a
commission agency (for that’s what it all amounts
t©) wo feel doubly sure of “ good biz.,” provided
the religious editor and the office boy work thor-
oughly together. Hallelujah I
An enormous house greeted Miss Forte-
scue’s first appearance at the Court Theatre after
her jilting by the butler’s grandson. The cheers
were continuous, and the name of “ Garmoyle ”
was hissed.
Mrs. Mary Miller, the Louisiana widow,
who applied for a captain’s steamboat license, has
got it, an <1 she’s now a captainess, in spite of the
opposition of the U. S. Treasury Solicitor. Lots
of objections were raised, but the only one with
any real force was that she would not bo able to
chew tobacco, and swear at the crew. We don’t
believe that these accomplishments are beyond |
tho attainment of a determined woman.
A meeting rc the Boys’ Club, Ultimo, was
held in the Gymnasium on 23rd April, when it was
decided to continue operations, although it is des-
irable to remove to more suitable quarters, and
yet difficult to get such. The possibility of enter-
ing upon a larger scheme was discussed, and the
meeting resolved to take immediate steps for can-
vassing the city for support, so as to erect prem-
ises and put the Club on a good footing. Several
joined the staff of those who work by teaching,
and attending at the Club, but the names of more
assistants will be gladly received by the Hon. Sec.,
Mr. M. M’Carthy, “Saxthorpe,” Victoria-street,
Darlinghurst. Mr. E. Greville presided at the
meeting, which was a very practical one.
That the Salvation Harmy is doing a great
work among the criminal classes in Victoria even
the most sceptical is forced to admit. Daily we
learn that horse-thieves, pickpockets, three-card
men, gamblers, and fortune-tellers “ have found
the Loard,” and we read thrilling accounts in the
War Cry of the converted pieman, the happy
drunkard, the sainted horse-thief, the glorified
sneak, and the sanctified press-men, who are ready
to step out to the Golden Shoah on the shortest
notice, to claim their harps and crowns, and wings
and things—a holy, happy band. Gut all that
glitters is not gold, and sometimes we are pained
by finding a hair in our hash when we least ex-
pect it. Not long ago, a very nice young man
who was fonder of wielding the pen than of heft-
ing the shovel, was sent up to Government lodg-
ings for a term by the Melbourne City Gench. He
had been trying his ability with the pen, and instead
of his own signature he put that of some gentleman
with a bank account to a cheque. When he fin-
ished his time, and was bidding a fond adieu to Mr.
Leyden, at the gate of the gaol, the Harmy Prison
Brigade rescued him from his evil courses. They
took him to their barracks, prayed over him, and,
as he professed to have found the Loard, and
stated that he was saved, they bawled themselves
hoarse yelling “ Hallelujah ” over the repentant
one. Then they gave him a billet selling War
Crys, and he rapidly ran up tho ladder of fame,
until he was trusted with some of the Harmy
funds, when, following the example of those
wicked bank clerks and Post-office officials, he fell
away from grace. One day they missed him, sad
and long, where he was wont to stray. They
missed some money about the same time. Had he
failed into the pit-falls of Satan without having
any cash belonging to tho Harmy in his possession
littl e notice would be taken of the circumstance;
but as it was otherwise tho following notice was
published in the War Cry : “A young man of the
name of , since his release from
Melbourne gaol nearly three months ago, has been
assisted in every possible way to reform. He
lately ran away, but not before it was necessary.
He is about 5ft. Sin. i'» height, and has a dark com-
plexion and gentlemanly appearance and address.
He is about 31 years of age. He has dcfraaded
several persons, and rendered himself liable to
imprisonment. He seldom speaks the truth, is
very plausible, and affects a good deal the prodigal.
It is necessary to publish this, as he has already
succeeded in imposing upon some of our officers
and soldiers; and, judging by his antecedents, he
will endeavour to do so again.” Yes; this
convert Is a fair specimen of the average loud-
mouthed, canting, hypscritical, thieving skunks
who are now prowling about the city, in the
employ of the Harmy. And “ they affect the
prodigal,” too, very much in public. Had thieving
referred to in the case of this particular man hap-
pened in other company than that of the saintly
Salvationists, the delinquent would be “putting in
some more time ” before now.
BRIEF MENTION.
The bath of the pious. Sab-bath.
A very killing damsel—Bella Donna.
The McElhone left for Europe last week.
Poor Europe I
Right man in right place: John Plummer
lecturing on Brasswork.
How a man ought to hate his tailor. He’s
always “ giving one fits,” even if they’re only
mis-flts.
Derivation. Hominy ; hominq, O men !
That is an o-men that your breakfasting in “ quod,”
or ought to be.
When our youngsters ask for bread we
don’t sling them a stone. No, we often give them
a rock. That is, a cradle rock.
The Rum speaks of embracery as being a
rare offence. Embracery is common enough, ’tls
only tho prosecutions and convictions of its perpe-
trators that are rare.
New blood for the Queensland Municipal
Councils. A mob of mules recently passed Wagga
en route for the Far North. This will be welcome
news to the alligators.
A Government without money, says Sir
John Robertson, is like a cat in hell without claws.
He migft have added, “ or like a leader of Opposi-
tion in the lower house with a stumpy tail.”
According to the Wellington Bench, par-
sons and priests may gamble with impunity, as
long as it is for charity. We didn’t know before
that gambling was among the multitude of sins
that charity is said to cover.
Do you know “Myheart’s first Home ?”
murmured an msthetic musical young lady to a
matter-of-fact rural swan. “ Well, I suppose ” he
innocently replied “ it’s located somewhere under
your left ribs.” Semi-hysteria.
At Gilmore (near Tumut) the stubborn,
unlaid local ghost continues to break his magic
chains at curfew time, and affright the rustics. A
blunderbuss, loaded with salt, has been known to
bring down this sort of bird. Aim at the tail.
A paragraphist down South worked into
his paper a notice of a crowded ’bus on the 8t. Kilda
road, and managed in the few lines to Introduce
“Noblesse oblige,” “place aux dames,” “queue,”
and “Shank’s pony.” Who will say newspaper-
writers are deficient in taste for the bdles-lettres ?
Among the wonders on show by Messrs.
Abbott and Stephens, the Barn urns of Queensland,
is a pony 27 inches high, weighing only 351b., a
five-horned cow, and a man wno can wag his left
ear. Tumut is said to own a resident who can
waa- both ears. He uses them in summer as fly-
switches.
Mr. Speight, Chairman of the Victorian
Railway Commissioners, stated, in the course of
the official inquiry into the accident near Geelong,
that “ If the stationmaster did such a thing as
leave his work to go to church he was almost
capable of doing anything." But, then, Mr.
Speight isn’t a Presbyterian.
Archibald Forbes has a colonial rival.
When the late Volunteer Camp comedy was on,
the Australian, a Hawkesbury sheet, came out
with this portentous par.: “Our editor, Mr, George
Davies, will act in the capacity of war correspon-
dent.” Possibly this accounts for the scarcity of
potatoes complained of in the camp.
Joy! Fly another “kite;” whitewash his
honour’s stains; call in his bills; and let “spon-
taneous ” banquets be the order of the day.
’Enry’s himself again, and has just succeeded m
floating a company at Edinboro Toon, entitled
“The Australian Investment Company,” with a
capital of £1,000,000 sterling. Was ever a politician
so trusted before ?
“No, your Honer,” replied a witness to
Barrister Purves, in Melbourne. “I’m notjyour
Honour,” exclaimed the conscientious iadvocate.
Now, should not Mr. Purves know that the term
has only a conventional meaning ? Repudiation
was altogether unnecessary. Everybody in court
understood the witness did not mean the genuine
thing. Why, it was absurd on the face of it.
Thus C. E. Thatcher, of near Forbes:—“ On
the 16th April, coifimenoed to bore in the bottom
of a well (sunk in 1876, and onlyjgiving salty water)
with a two-inch auger welded to a sixteen-foot bar
of iron, seven-eighths square, and had two other
bars fitted with bolts. On 19th, at a depth of 28
ft., struck fresh water, and in less than 15 minutes
there was 27ft. of water in the well: there is now
43 ft. Tho well is in plain country, seven miles
from the Lachlan.” Moral; Don’t leave well alone
—when it is salty.
The good sort at Narrabri bid a festive
adieu, the other day, to Henry de Houghton, who
is leaving those diggings for pastures new, at tft.
George. The local Argus, in its report of the
jollification, says: “ ‘ amongst the principal toasts ’
were some thirteen— which it specifies.” If we add
some thirteen more for the minor toasts, we get a
sum total of liquor consumed, per head, which,
though at Narrabri it may only constitute a modest
quencher, yet seems to us sober, two-bottle men,
to be right Pantagruelian in amount.
It’s one of the peculiarities of the Mel-
bourne citizen to assume that his city is excep-
tionally naughty, and to express his pious indigna-
tion in a “ letter to the paper.” Here’s one choice
specimen been rushing into print (D.T. print) to
the effect that “nowhere in Europe are hotel bars
or public-houses kept open for so long a period of
time, England and elsewhere, no public-house
is permitted to remain open later than 11 o’clock
p.m.” This is too much. That man’s friends
ought to raise a subscription for the purpose of
despatching him to England, and especially “ else-
where.”
Constable Gorman, of North Fitzroy, has
been shamefully got at. He one time arrested
two little boys, and the Bench dismissed them, as
they were of tender years. Their daid started to
sue Gorman. Gorman put his case in a lawyer's
hands. The case came on the other day, but there
was no appearance of dad or anybody to represent
him, and no one knew where n® was. Then the
lawyer handed over an account of £19 10s., and
asked Gorman to liquidate at his early conven-
ience. Now, should not constable Gorman get a
license to use profane language any time he likes
till the next change of the moon ?
How “ Coming events cast their shadows
before ” to be sure. The “London Letter” of a
little Melbourne rag, contains some mention of
the Duke of Albany attending Sandown Park,
adding that “this was his last appearance at any
race meeting. Now, as this Letter from London
appeared within three weeks of the Duke’s de-
cease it only shows you how accurately high class
correspondents anticipate events—or perhaps it
makes one marvel that any public can tolerate
such muck, \coording to the same rag (in the
same issue) old cx-Queen Isabella is one of “ the
three most distinguisned women in Europe.” The
ex-Bmpress Eugene (sic) and Victoria, it appears*
share the “distinction” with the antiquated
Spanish harlot.
The “Eight Hours’ Demonstration” day,
in Melbourne, was, of course, observed as a holi-
day by the Government departments, for the poor
overworked Civil servant lakes a special delight in
celebrating his emancipation from the weary
drudgery to whiih he was formerly subjected.
Unfortunately, there’s no Civil Service banner in
the procession, round which the mashers can
reverently gather, so they were reduced to the
condition of onlookers as their fellow workmen
marched bravely by, but their beaml * counten-
ances denoted hearty sympathy with the Demon-
stration. The tears came into the eyes of a wan,
worn Treasury clerk—as he remarked that “twelve
hours’ recreation, six hours’ rest, and the re-
mainder devoted to luncheon and tooth-picking,
was a grand institution, by Jove!”
SJcene on the Northern railway (Queens-
land.) Half of train slowly toiling up the
‘•Demon’s Slide,” other half waiting patiently
below for its turn of the engines. Swagsman,
plodding through the mud alongside. Benevolent
Passenger (to swagsman): “Jump up, mate, and
have a ride.” Satirical Passenger: “ Let the (gory
man alone—he might be in a hurry I Bet you a
note he gets to the station before us!” And he
did. If this incident had occurred in New South
Wales the guard would have got off and fought
the swagsman out of mere esprit du corps. This
being a railway item, we may say, just here, for the
information of the travelling public, that engine-
drivers will no longer be allowed to leave the
train between stations, to get a drink. This enact-
ment savours of tyranny, but the public interests
must not suffer for the sake of the Individual.
And we must keep abreast of the age.
The Australian Health Society held their
half-yearly meeting the other evening, in Mel-
bourne, and Dr. Caffln made a severe attack on
the unsavoury drainage system of that city, in a
paper entitled “Our Unseen Foes.” Now, we
certainly respect the doctor for labouring In
a good cause, but we think he might have found a
better name for his paper. The very last com-
plaint we should bring against the fever streams
of Melbourne would be that they were “ unseen.”
They were always painfully apparent when we
were down that way.—
AN EXPLANATION.
Now, could one speak, would you suppose.
Of Melbourne’s drains as “ Unseen Foes ” ?
Confound it all I the water flows
Right underneath a fellow’s nose,
No matter wheresoe’er he goes.
Then what could Dr. Caffln mean
By calling Melbourne’s drains “ unseen” ?
The doctor must have joking been;
Or else (and this is right, we ween,)
He really meant to say—unclean.
Do we sleep? Do we dream, or can such
things be and overcome us e’en as the midnight
whisky doth the tired legislator. His Honor
Judge Harding, on his summing up on the recent
libel case in Brisbane, actually had the audacity to
declare “ I do not fear to lay down to the jury
that the Liberty of the Press means complete free-
dom to_ write and publish, without censorship or
restriction, save such as is absolutely neceasery for
the preservation of Society, and, of course, th©
Sood name of individuals.” According to Judge
[arding’s theory, the Press should be the guardian
of the liberty of the people, and the Jury should
be the guardian of the liberty of the Press. Words
like these, coming from a learned Judge, are
enough to petrify us here, but what are we to say,
or think ©f a man who is rash enough to publicly
declare that not only has the Press a perfect right
to criticise the official actions of Judges, but that,
in fact, “ Judges desire that they may be criticised.
It brings to light any mistakes they may have
made, and sharpens the future administration of
justice.” All we yearn for now is to see Judge
Harding step over here and start a journal, and try
how his theory would work in this enlightened
land of ours.
“Turban-stealing seems to be the latest
accomplishment of the Bangalore thieves. The
turban is simply snatched off the head at night,
and, as the victim gets bewildered and feels as if
he had lost his head altogether, the thief has
always time to vanish in the darkness.” This item
by the English mail was read with avidity by
several collarless gentlemen who are full up of the
kinchen lay, likely to be more than full up of
prize-fighting, but the result of their present
attempts to gain an honest penny by adopting the
turban lay, Is still more likely, to judge from their
language at the last distribution of profits, to lead
to a general massacre. They lay for gentlemen
who meander home at two in the morning to
meditate on godliness and a “straight walk,” and
returned to the coop with no less than seven hats
of night pressmen. When the candle was lighted,
and the wares examined, the leader remarked
amidst suppressed blasphemy: “S’elp me ,
boys, here’s a go. We’ve gone and turbaned the
—■ — newspaper men, and cep’ a couple or three
sangwidges and a nose wipe, there’s not a ’at
among ’em you could pawn for anything but old
ink, or sell anywhere but to the boilin’ down busi-
ness. Let’s kill somebody.” ’
The Two Misers.
AN OLD CHINESE YARN.
In Mie province of Qwangtung, lived two
old misers—Ah Chow and Wong Goon. Chow had
accumulated something like three hundred dollars,
and Goon about two hundred and fifty, after fifty
years of steady devotion to business, and the most
rigid etonomy. They were both about seventy
years of age, and past work, and their chief con-
cern was to make the money last for the remainder
of their days, which they calculated, might, with
care, run another Gut the
old age of Goon was embittered by the reflection
that in the matter of a stand-by, Chow not only
had fifty dollars of a start of him, but somehow
managed to live on less then he did. “ Chow,” ho
said, “was always a deep man, and now he is
getting deeper. When we were in the tea trade
in Canton we worked together. I was up with the
lark and around to the back of the restaurant
taking up the tea leaves for the Christian Market,
long before he was, and yet he’d be down to the
wharf with two bricks in the middle of the load,
at L-, , we itfhed and cleared with the money,
while I, that scarcely ever weighted mine, would
be bounced out of twenty or thirty cash, and
bambood out of the yard if I was only caught with
half a brick in the sample. The man, between you
and me, is smarter than I am.” They now held
daily consultations as to how to reduce expenses
to the lowest point and still live; and many and
bitter were the objurgations of Chow when he re-
flected on the extravagance of Goon. Calling on
Goon one chilly evening, he pushed open the door,
and a spectacle met his gaze which paralysed him
for five minutes. He dropped and whispered for
water. Goon was seated in the corner before a
fire composed of three small sticks and warming
his long claws over it. As soon as Chow had re-
covered sufficiently to speak, he fixed his glaring
almonds on Goon, and with a hysterical laugh,
roared “ Oh yes, pile up the logs, ©n with the confla-
gration, let the cheerful blaze roar, furnace up,
old man, dam the expense, you’re a man of wealth,
fuel is only an item to a man of your affluence,
what’s the use"of having 350 dollars if a man can’t
be warm ? roll ’em in, heave in another ton, you’ve
only seventy years more to live—give it a name,
on with the dance, let’s be merry now w© may”—
and so on. Then Goon turned round and thought
he had him. “ So ypu think,” he sneered, “ that
this wood cost me something. You’re out of it,
sonny. I pieked it up in a garden over the hill.”
And, where did you get the match.” “Found
it.’ “ When you went over the hill to raise this
bonfire, how did you go ? ” “ Walked.” “ Should
think so/’ snarled Chow examining the splintered
soles of Goon’s slippers, “and you’ve taken a day’s
wear of these boots. You knew the track was
rocky — to day wasn’t cold, why didn’t you
think of that?” “I forgot it,” moaned Goon,
‘ but how do you manage these bitter nights ? ”
You sicken a man,” replied Chow, “call and see
me to-morrow night.” The next night Chow
called, " come in,” when Goon knocked. It was
Goon’s turn to gasp for breath. The night was
frosty, the air in the hut not less so, there was no
sign of fire anywhere, and yet Chow was seated on
a mat in the middle of the room with perspiration
streaming down his face. “How do you do it,”
gasped the shivering and astonished Goon.” “How
do I do it, snarled Chow—“ You and your bonfires
and your piled-up logs, and your extravagance.
I tell you, Goon, you’ll come to want yet. Don’t
come to me if you want help. Am I warm ? Feel
n»e, look at me ? ” “ In tne uame of Tiyo and
King Chang, and the ashes of Kung when he dies,
how do you do it?” “Look over my head,”
solemnly returned Chow. Goon looked, and per-
ceived, hanging just over Chow’s head, and sus-
pended by a very slender line, a rock about a
quarter of a ton weight. Whenever Chow felt
chilly he sat underneath that rock and the fear
that the line would break warmed him up to a
toast!


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Manor Burdekin announces by advertise-
ment that Mrs. WhavFook, Chinese giantess weigh-
C 8W«Sr testifies to Grace in Melbourne
Temperance Hall.” To Grace ? or to Grease ?
1 judge Higinbotham rules that no evi-
dence can bo received in Court notice of which
has not been served on defendant, and will
over-rule the old custom to the contrary
Bazaar for Austin Hospital for incurables
closed. Estimated gain over all expenses
cQQo A fac simile of Ned Kelly s sunt
of Plate armour exhibited in Melbourne Exhibi-
tion. The prime object of the sho T is to instruct.
1 Kirkam, of St. Kilda, was drunk, and hit his
wife on the head with a basin. Doctor pronounced
wound serious. Kirkam pulled up. Cried lustily
for a blue ribbon. Got it. Showed it to the Bench.
» Very well; we let you off.” Who says the blue
,,nuon is no good? S. A. King was asked to
Stand for Moira. In declining, he says, "Ihave
been asked to run, even if certain of defeat. But
that’s it, Sam. That’s why they asked you. But
he adds, “ I will do it when I have more money and
a great deal less brains than I have- Ah, Sana,
from the sea of politics we send you our political
adieux. You’ll never sail the legislatorial brmey.
One of your conditions is impossible of attain-
ment. The latter one, Sammy, the latter one. ..
“ For laying down on the footpath in Goro-street,
a young lady was fined 40s., says the Melbourne
World. It’s not the typos that ought to be sent
to school; it’s the Victorian Review Publishing
Company Hoggart, Victorian Inspector ot
Mines, has tried that mineral earth sent down to
him from Mudgee. Finds it kills the phylloxera, but
kills the vines faster. Therefore, Mudgee can keep
it. Perhaps Mudgee could stop mouths with it...
Caterpillar pest in Queensland making all chance
of butter fly Sydney Chamber of Commerce
thinks that Government should Immediately re-
sume the water frontages of the beautiful harbour
and of the port of Newcastle, and place the same
in the hands of trusts. Lamb and Ew(e)an, who
are for the existing system, wether or no, would
ram it down people’s throats that it is an admir-
able system. Bah, lamb!... A Victorian State
school female teacher made a pretence to hang an
unruly scholar. The Minister reprimanded her.
He should have suspended her. ..Rice hanged last
week; died game... .Civil Service growing far too
fapidly. Present Government have made 356 new
appointments for which the public have to find
over £45.000 a year....dapltal spent on N.S.W.
railways to close of 1883. was close upon
seventeen millions; expenditure in 1883,, on
working the railway lines, £1,187,853... .Corpses
in thfi Melbourne Morgue are to be in future
covered with netting of diamond wire. Rats were
intruding. But the officers who recommended the
netting nut it, “The covers are to be in shape
somewhat like those over meat-dishes. Grue-
some felicity.... A squatter near Wilcannla is pay-
ing £100 per week for the use of a neighbouring
well ..“March fly” late this year, drat him....
Indian cavalry remount director to take an official
tour around Australia,...In 1883, were-eo-
prosecutions (2335 convictions) by the N.S.W. school
attendance officers. Average school attendance in
>883 was 88,516 ... Last week, says a correspondent
of Granny, “ a child, aged 4, whilst looking through
a fence had its eyeball [a very Polyphemus-like
kidl severely cut by a pebble thrown from a
‘shanghai.’” Moral: Don t look through a fence..
Jury disagreed in the Maitland poisoning case
Mrs. Keep and her mother admitted to bail to ap-
pear when called upon. Evidence certainly die.nt
T/indhiftte the charge..,. .J. J. Casey gazetted a
Victorian County Court Judge vice M‘Farland de-
ceased....W. P. Evans, bookseller, smashed to
death against a verandah post of the Freemantie
(W.A.) railway station ; endeavoured to enter a
carriage in motion... G. C. Levev s Colonial Ex-
hibition at the Crystal Palace (Eng.) opened by
the Lord Mayor on St, George’s DaY-—Fruiterer
Weymark, of Dubbo, recovered £50 from the
Bank of N.S.W., for notifying him that a cheque
of his had been dishonoured whereas it had simply
been returned for verification of endorser s signa-
ture City Engineer Mountain and overseer
Gordon censured by Sydney Municipal Council for
incurring an expenditure of £388 at Homebush
Saleyards without authority. Aldermen appar-
ently hadn’t faith enough to remove the Mountain.
....Last week, railway smash at Redfetn; brake
wouldn’t work; train dashed into the dock, wound-
ing a lot of Newington boys who were standing on
the carriage platforms, where they dldn t oughter.
One boy, Fred. Fletcher, to wit, died of his m-
luries.. .N.S.W. I.O.O.F., M.U., statistics for 83:—
Income, £38,853; expenditure, £31,617; amount ot
contributions, only £33,093 (lodges living on inter-
est of savings); average sickness, 5 days 5)4hours:
rate of mortality, 1 in 136; 1683 new members 9
new lodges ; total good on books, 11,-14- ; total
value of funds. £103.081. By the bye, is no action
going to be taken by Parliament re the Friendly
Socleties, or is the result of the action of that ex-
pensive koyal Commission to be nix.... . Barbed
wire fencing manufacture started at Newtown....
Free Public Library trustees quite right to decline
to transfer bound copies of periodicals to lending
branch. They are wanted for reference where
they are Whittingdale Johnson, Commissioner
of C.P.’s, appointed Deputy-Stipendiary during
Buchanan’s absence on leave.... Dr. Tibbetts, o
Petersham, who has retired from practice, means
a trip to Europe; so does Dr. Harwood, of Bed-
fern. Dr. T. Dixson, Lecturer on Materia Medico,
8yd. flni., is doing Europe.... Recently found in an
caglehawk’s nest near Ivanhoe, Riverma, tne
skulls of 21 rabbits, 1 lamb, 4 turkeys, 1 hawk, 6
crows, 4 magpies, 3 iguanas, and 37 jew-lizards. it
only the skulls of one or two lawyers had been
discovered in it we would vote for worshipping
the eaglehawk The sixpenny telegraph rate to
be extended to all places enjoying the penny
postage rate That’s the t(r)ickettl.. .Biddle, late
railway station master at Wernbee (Vic.) sacked
for absenting himself without leave and leaving
his station in charge of an incompetent person....
M'Gowan appointed Deputy Postmaster-General
of Victoria vice Jackson.... Last week Meg Mac-
kenzie, of Burramine (Vic.), aged 19, whendraw-
ing up a bucket from a well, fell in ami was
drowned; a young roan who went downi to help her
out nearly ‘suffocated by foul air . ram
fell in Victoria last week... During the year
1883 the trigonometrical survey completed
the direct series of triangles connecting the
Richmond base with that at Lake George....
A Nnrrabri joker fined 20 bob for igniting a con-
stable's moustache with a lucifer match .... Redfern
railway authorities hencefortn to stamp the re-
ceipts for goods delivered to them.. Go\ ernor
Loch has appointed Capt. Traill as A.D.C....A
registrar of what the D.T. calls domes! ooccu -
rences ” to be appointed for Ashfleld.... V ‘-rnon
Neltenstein declares that account is takenofeach
boy for a considerable time after he es tne
training ship.... In ’83. the average cost of measure?
ments bv licensed surveyors was 113-8d. per acre,
to ’71. it was Is. 5 5-8d... During ’83, area reserved
for travelling stock. 1,457 301 acres; for projected
railway lines? 1.040,190 acres; for timber purposes,
760,430 acres.
♦ * •
Enrthouake in Essex (Eng.) last week.
Colchester natives frightened—in some cases to
death. Mrs. Somerville states that about -50 earth-
quakes have occurred in the British Isles. One
was severely felt in Dublin in 1690; one In London
1730; one in N.W, England 1853; one in Cornwall in
im'; another in ditto in 1860; one inAV. England
and S. Wales in 1868; and one in N. W. England
1871..; The five men convicted of complicity in
the murder (in ’82) of Mrs. Smytho at Collinstown*
Ireland, sentenced, last week, to ten years each..
German Government subsidises with 4 million
marks —350,000) per annum — monthly steamers
between Hamburg (or Bremerhaven) and Austra-
lia. .. The Great Powers think there should be an
international parlezvousanent Egyptian affairs...
France wants to have a say in Egyptian affairs.
Why shouldn’t she? ...A force to be despatched
for the relief of Berber.... A British expeditionary
force to relieve Gordon at Khartoum in tho
autumn.... During ’83 British national debt re-
duced by eight millions ...British revenue for '84
estimated at 85>6 millions. ...To meet deficiency on
ffght coin, the Chancellor of the Exchequer in-
tends to diminish by one-tenth, the amount pf gold
i in the British half-sov.... Gordon’s safety is to be
cared for by England, should occasion require.
Last year the Attorney-General and the
Crown Solicitor received about £700 each—£14 a
week, for dealing with applicants for patents.
This, in addition to the £30 or so a week they draw
for law work. This year Mr. Dailey expects to bag
£1000 — £30 a week, and his brother wigsmau
£1100 - £33 a week, for telling George Stephenson,
or Edison, or Palissy that they are rather ingenious
persons, God bless them, and they shall have the
protection of the State on paying down to the
satisfaction of the State. Pallssy’s pottery must
be adjudged by—the Chief Inspector of Police, for
he knows all about the glazing on a policeman's
hat, and therefore knows about glazing pottery.
The Clerk of the Peace judges leather-working
machinery, because he’s a strapping fellow, and
for knowledge of a good style of “ cat,” carries
the belt; and, list, we pray you, the Government
Printer reports on the stoppings for bottles—surely
not because a printer knows better than anyone
else how to give it mouth ? Anyhow if you fancy
you have hit on telegraphy or a new motive power,
you have to close your own mouth, until some ot
these gentry chink your sovereigns in their
pockets. This may be altered next session. Oh,
yes, dear Edison and Watt, Palissy— next session.
Introspection.
Mr. Stuart remarked that his backbone was to do what was right, «


SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Donald Dinnie offers to wrestle Blackburn
for anything up to £500.
The Australian cricketers are to play a
match at Liverpool at the end of June.
It is a wonder, in this age of champions,
there are no aspirants for the position of champion
light-weight grocer.
By cable we learn that Quicklime won the
City and Suburban Handicap at the Epsom Spring
meeting (Eng.), Thebais second, and Stag third.
Granny’s Just received a cable,
Your breath, in dread suspense, now hold,
We’ll break it gently as we’re able —
“ Billy Murdoch’s got a cold.’
The Glebeites are beginning to make John-
stone’s Bay look lively again. A senior pair-oar
race has been set down for May 17, and several
pairs are already in training for it.
The Melbourne Sportsman tells a corres-
pondent that Dinnie is prepared to wager he can
put two tons at arms length above his head. And
a New South Wales provincial has copied it in all
seriousness.
In the annual report of the Sydney Row
Inar Club, the wins during the past season are
chiefiy confined to rows over, the winning brackets
tor races in which the M.R.C. competed being con-
spicuous by their absence. The blue-bloods had
better wake up, or the lowly red-heads the other
side of the Quay will be the senior club in all but
J ongth of existence.
The following are
the handicaps for the
principal runners entered
In the Bourke Sheffield
Handicap, to run on
36th May:—Malone 1 yard.
Farrell 3 yards, Frank
Robertson 4 yards, Cam-
badello Billy 6 yards,
Arnold 5 yards, Belbette
or Mathews 9 yards,
Byrne, Westwood, Goger,
J. Robertson, each 9
yards, Evans, Brindle,
Hayes, Solomon, Brown,
each 10 yards.
The 135 yards race at
Glen Innes between Riley
and Heydon, was won by
Riley, and the Nooze
gives the time as 12% sec.
We never hear of a
country sprint now that
is not run in evens, which
means that the watch is
set going after the men
are yards on their jour-
ney. The late G. Seward
is credited with having
run 130 in 11%, 140 and 150
In evens, and 200 yards in
l<d% seconds.
The 34-footers have
reached such a pitch of
excellence that it would
seem next thing to im-
possible to build a craft
of the present dimen-
sions faster than the Car-
lotta and Victor, so far as
the hull is concerned,
but we , believe a big
difference might bo made
In the power to hold a
wind If a man could be
found smart enough to
fix up a centreboard box
that would allow of its
being moved on a hinge
from side to side, so that
the board could be kept
in an upright position,
no matter what cant the
boat had. The board
need not be nearly as
large as a fin in an ordin-
ary box to be effective,
and we fully believe that
in two racing boats, all
else being equal, the boat
with the moveable box
would walk clean away
from the fixed box craft,
In a live thrash to wind-
ward.
Farnan’s offer to
knock Foley out in half
an hour was rather too
thin, and, as the Sydney
man would not accept,
Farnan has claimed the
empty title of the cham-
pionship of Australia, and
offers to box all comers
for £100 in support of it.
Newton now wants to
have a slap at Foley.
Peter, who Is in Adelaide,
takes exception to a state-
ment that appeared in
the New York Clipper
to tbe effect that Foley
bested him in an en-
counter in 1870, and states
he is ready to box Foley
under Queensbury rules
for a trophy. Peter is
one of the most scientific
and pretty boxers it has
been our lot to see per-
form, and, should the
Eair meet, Foley will
ave a very different
task before him from the
last bout they had, as
Newton at that time
scaled a stone less than
his present weight, and
was suffering from a car-
buncle on his back.
Mr. William Nicholson, a colonial old-time
sport of some 40 years standing, has donated £50 to
the Northern Jockey Club as a supplementary
prize to the Duckenfleld Park Stakes, to come off
next September.
George Powell, of Sydney, has been
matched against John King, of Melbourne, to box
for £100, in the first week in June, in some building
in Victoria to bo mutually agreed upon. Powell is
to receive £10 expenses.
Our old friend, Young Dutchy, has offered
to box Peter M‘Coy for £1000, Queensberry rules,
winner to take half gate-money, the remainder to
go to some charitable institution. Wo wonder
where Dutchy raised the thou.?
At Tam worth, H. Deerfoot recently tried
to cover ten miles within the hour, but only
managed nine miles and a half. In 1863, L. Ben-
nett, an Indian hailing from Canada, covered ten
miles in almin. 26sec , and eleven and a half miles in
the hour.
In America, Richard A. Fennel is credited
with having elevated a 310%Ib. dumb-bell. He
used both hands to raise the bell to the shoulder,
then pushed it slowly up with one hand until the
arm was fully extended and the body brought to
an erect position.
Mr. W. Johnson bas at last parted with the
“ Lizzie.” the 34-footer built to his order by Lang-
ford. The Lizzie, a list of whose wins we gave
som« months pasf, has probably won more trophies
than any other boat la the harbour. Her new
owner intends to half deck her.
In America, a great ice-boat race for the
championship os.mo off at Poughkeepsie, on the
Hudson, on February 9, over a twenty mile course.
It was estimated that the boats covered 58 miles
during the race, which won by the Haze in the
wonderful time of Ih. 5min. 33sec.
Some m en have the deil’s own luck. There’s
“jaynll” Dan, for instance. Scarcely has he got
through with showing Hanlan the lions, than
another American will be here to claim his good
offices. We refer to Slogger Sullivan, who states
it is intention to visit the antipodes
The winning pedestrians in the rpcent six
days’ race at ’Frisco, promoted by Muldoon, did
not receive their prizes, as the Sheriff seized the
box receipts on the last day, for debt contracted
by the promoter. Muldoon is the party who did
the statuesque with Hanlan ata ’Frisco theatte.
Messrs. Woodside and Morgan, the profes-
sional bicyclists, have changed the location of the
starting-point of their bicycle ride across the con-
tinent of America. They have decided to start
from New York on May 1, and will ride via Phil-
adelphia, Washington, Baltimore, Pittsburg, Chi-
cago, Salt Lake City, etc.
A Wellington N,Z. paoer says there is a
local policeman who can put up 177 lbs. above his
head with one hand. If true, this is a great 1 ft,
being only a couple of pounds less than Miller’s
record. The “ trap ” in question is 33 years of age,
stands 5 ft. 9 in., weighs 11 st. 7 lbs., measures 39 in.
round the chest and round tho biceps.
That fast mare Linda, by Panic—Rosa,
has been sold to go to tho Mauritius. Her last
win was in tho Geelong Gold Cup. and altogether
she managed to get her head in front on six
occasions. Linda, it will be remembered, ran
very prominently in the Melbourne Cup, and was
the quiet tip of a good many among the “ clever
people,” for the event.
The Sydney Rowing Club held its four-
teenth annual general meeting on the 38rd April,
when the following officers were elected Mr, P.
J. Clark, Captain ; Mr. L. G J. Bennett, Hon.
Treasurer ; Mr. Jas. Gerry, Hon. Secretary, and
Messrs. J. E. Myers, W. G. Anslow, B. P. Simpson,
J A. Brodie, C. A. Bros, R. C. Oatley, J. W. Warren,
D. D. Middleton, C. Dobson, Committee.
Hutchens, the English crack, recently
covered 137% yards in 13 seconds, and although
this does not seem such a great performance after
his other wonderful shows, no other man has aver
succeeded in doing it. Hutchens did not win the
race, as he had to concede Tattersall, who can run
131 yards in 13 seconds, 7% yards, and another tip-
topper named Ratclifle received 0% yards ; but he
managed ta run into a place.
The Victoria Amateur Turf Club had rain
and a small attendance at their meet on Saturday
last. Tulta won the Selling Race, Yanga and Ber-
wick came to grief in the Handicap Hurdles, won
by Yately; Merrijig carried off the Glen Hunky
Handicap; Blackthorn won the Steeplechase, dur-
ing the running tor which Lizette came to grief,
and Stampede fell and fractured Malone’s skull;
and Meander won the Armidale Handicap.
The excuses made by the members of a
certain gun club to cry out of accepting a chal-
lenge recently Issued by a certain shootist are
rather amusing. They find the challenger is not
“ a gentleman,” save the mark I and that there are
“grave suspicions ho on one occasion missed a
bird purposely.” The fact is the cau is loo good,
and Is worth letting alone. Were he a plck-upi
gentleman or no gentleman, he would have no
difficulty in finding an aristocratic scooper-in of
the century.
The accident to Miller at Melbourne turned
out more severe than was at first expected, and
proved a case of Pott’s fracture (By the way there
is a case of Pott’s Point fracture on the tapis just
now, but this should go in tbe Social column)
which means, luckily for the Professor we think
putting aside the idea of meeting Slugger Sullivan
for many months to come. Miller's mother died
on the Sunday night following the accident,
Again we notice “Spokes” has been hit-
ting at the Cyclists’ Union, and the Track Com-
mittee of that body took it into their heads
to reply; but had they known “Spokes” and
also that the club he belongs to would not
appoint him a delegate to the Union, they, in all
probability, would not have replied. “ Spokes’ ”
proposal to hold a35-mile race on a soft asphalt track
would not Imply that he knows very much about
the pastime he gushes so much about.
sporting writer has noticed what he
calls “a peculiar fact in connection with Le
Grand,” and, looked at from his point of viea%
it certainly is an uncommonly peculiar fact. Jus
this—on three separate occasions the S. W. has
observed Mr. Wallace’s horse, while doing the
preliminary canter, “turn his head right round
and look up at the spectators in the stand, as
much as to say ‘ I am going to win.”’ We’re not
told, though, whether Le Grand gave another slv
glance up at the ladies on his return to tbe weigh-
ing room, as much a 5 ! to say “I ve kept my w 0 rd,
you see,”—but very likely he oi 1. An intelligent
animal like that will want to be firing off a pisiol
in a circus next.
There’s a schoolmaster out Wagga Wagga
way who thinks he’s as smart with his feet as he is
at handling the birch, or spotting the gender of a
noun. The other day he issued a challenge to try
conclusions with any ped. in the district. All the
masculine gender fought shy of him, but a dash-
ing damsel accepted the challenge, the stakes to be
a box of gloves and a new bonnet. She toed the
mark in a Highland sort of dress, while the peda-
gogue appeared gorgeous in his racing “ togs.” Of
course, the betting was a round of beef to a Noos
man’s saveloy on the domine, but alter a tight
race the flat-footed fair one landed the stakes by
three yards. Domine reckons this the most un-
satisfactory style of “ running after a gal.”
Mr. Trebeck has parted with his clipper,
the Wingadee, and given an order to George Ellis
to turn out a half-decker, 20ft. long, 7ft. beam,
and 3fl. deep, with several hundredweight of lead
bolted into her keel. 'This style of craft will no
doubt suit Mr. Trebeck to take out the family in a
souther) v buster, but we fancy he will be mistaken
if he thinks she will beat the little boat he has just
sold. Three feet is a good depth for a boat of her
length, and should decrease instead of increase
her speed. The shallower the boat, the faster—as
ced in the Carlotta, the fastest 31-footer in
the harbour, which required a batten on to make
her the necessary 3ft. in depth Should Mr. Tre-
heck lose the wind anywhere the other side of
Bradley’s when cruising in his new craft, we would
advise him to cast three anchors out of the stern
and pray for daylight and a westerly, as he will
then get home about as fast as ho would with a
| pair of sweeps.
The cricket match, the aged ones v. the
colts, proved to be the most interesting event of
the season; and it was a pity the game could not
be played out, as the finish would undoubtedly
have been most exciting. The old ’uns tired con-
siderably on the second day, which fact, coupled
with the A1 bowling of “ Little Ferris,” put the
kids in it. The amount of money realised scarcely
reached expectation, owing mostly to laxity of
management and the fact that many ground mem-
bers availed themselves of their season tickets
Mean!
The following were the boats entered for
the Hurry Scurry race on Saturday last, in con-
nection with the newly formed Double Bay
Amateur Sailing Club ; —Lottie, scratch ; Bronte,
3 mjn ; Deronda, 3 min ; Thistle, 5 min ; Eula,
6 min ; Ethel, 8 min ; Regina, 8 min ; Florrio, 9
min ; Petrel, 10 min ; Wingadee, 13 min ; Sabina,
14 min ; lanthe, 17 min, and all started but the
Wingadee. The three first boats to finish were the
Lottie, Bronte, and Ethel, in the order named, but
according to time allowed the Bronte took first
prize and the Lottie second.
N.S. Wales horses are, comparitively
speaking, safe from another Le Grand “knock
out” for the coming 13 months at least, as the
crack Queenslander’s, “childhood’s home,” the
Grange stud, will not be represented in any of the
Australian classic events next year. It appears that
Mr. Kent recently held an unreserved sale of the
Grange yearlings, at which sale most of the prime
lots fell to the bids of a non-racing man, who
turned the whole of the youngsters out to breed,
Mr. Kent has, however, registered a solemn vow
that he will never be had so cheaply for the future
A singular “coinci-
dence” has occurred up
on the Clarence. The
secretary of a certain
jockey club has so
worked the oracle that
the “ Maiden Plate ” shall
not be competed for by
horses that have won
over a£30prlze. Now, the
“coincidence” lies in the
fact that the secretary in
question has an equine
entered for the race that
can run rings round any
h orse in the district quad -
fled for the race.
John L. Sullivan
made his first mark in the
pugilistic world by the
defeat of Dan Dwyer,
some three years ago.
Sullivan at that time was
known as the “ Strong
Boy of the Boston High-
lands,” and at his request
did a “wind up ’’with
Dwyer at a benefit ten-
dered to tbe latter pugi-
list. The evening of tbe
show found Sullivan the
first man in the dressing-
room, and upon the
stage. Upon Dwyer’s ap-
pearance, time was called,
and with a sort of weli-
j ust- see- me- do -this -fel-
iow-up smile to the gang,
Dwyer opened the fight
—it was intended to be of
six or seven rounds dur-
ation—with his right. It
fell short. He rapidly
went in again with his
left, with quite a strong
blow, landing somewhere
on John’s neck. As
might be supposed, at
the opening John was
timid just a bit, but not
nearly s > much as is usual
upon such occasions. The
left-hander from Dwyer
sort of brought him back,
as It were, and he gave
Dwyer a volley of blows
frombJth hands, throw-
ing him severely against
the ropes, and almost
over into the audience.
Dwyer was dazed. He
didn’t laugh any more,
cor did he tool any more.
Tbe round was finished
by his keeping a very
respectful distance from
Sullivan’s fists. The se-
cond roued was tame in
the extreme It was
evident that John wanted
to do him up. but the
better knowledge of ring
tactics on the part of
Dwyer prei ented him.
In the third round
Dwyer’s reputation was
at stake, and, judging by
his actions, must b e
saved. He let go both
hands at once, and both
landed, the left some-
where on John’s ribs, and
the right about the head.
Neither ot the Hows was
of a severe character;
they were what are
known as bluffs, but they
didn’t bluff John, and he
let go promiscuously
right and left, giving
Dwyer a heavy pummel-
ling all over the square.
The round had lasted
hardly a minute, and the
master of the ceremonies,
presumably out of com-
passion for the bene-
ficiary, called time,
Dwyer sank into insignifi-
cance, and Sullivan was
the hero of the hour.
The following officers were elected at the
annual meeting of the St. Leonard’s Football
Club Mr. L. Solomons, president; Captain Hix-
son and Messrs. Armstrong and Fisher, vice-
presidents ; Mr. J. Dunsmure, hon. secretary: Mr_
Armstrong, hon. treasurer ; R. Hill, captain ; J.
Davis, vice-captain ; Messrs. Lord, Saddington,
Parke, and Day, committee ; and Messrs. J. Du ns-
mure and R. Hill, delegates ; and caps of honor
were awarded Messrs. Hill and Saddington.
Charles Harriman, the virtual champion
walker of America, has offered to walk our own
Edwards a two or sin days’ walk, for from £300 to
£3000, the winner to get the stakes and pay ex
penses, the public to be admitted free, which offer
might seem as if he has walked himself insane;
but Harriman is an old hand at the game, and, as
he no doubt feels pretty confident in his ability to
defeat Edwards, is anxious to bring the Australian
to the scratch on any terms. But, from what we
know of Edwards, Mr. Harriman will have greater
difficulty in beating him in the matter of £. s. d.
than in a heel and toe contest.
The first annual meeting of the Sydney
Lacrosse Club showed that the club had made
good progress during its first season, and that the
game bids fair to take a place amongst our winter
pastimes. It is proposed during the coming season
to have the playing space beyond Mount Rennie,
Moore Park, cleared and levelled, for which pur-
pose a ground committee was elected. The elec-
tion of officers resulted as follows: Patron, Sir P.
Jennings; President, Mr. W. H. Stephen; vice-
President, Mr. G. Merriman; Secretary and Trea-
surer, Mr. G. Beech; Captain, Mr. G. iitech; vice-
The Scaly Monster of the House.
Ha ! Ha ! Invulnerable.


THE GOMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
(LIMITED),
Caterers to the
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR BALL SUPPERS. HAMPERS FOR PICNICS, RACE, AND OTHER
PARTIES SUPPLIED. SPACIOUS BANQUETING HALL, UPSTAIRS.
PERSONAL SUPERINTENDENCE GUARANTEED, WELL-APP INTED BAR,
Luncheon and Smoking Lounge. All Goods are Guaranteed of the very best Quality and Description.
E. D. TOLLEMAGHE, General RTanager.
ZE3Zo't©l- 7
(LATE COFFEE PALACE Nc. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, la now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and Intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
UIl METALLIC MS OS SUMS!
MAKE
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST ROOFING KNOWN.
It is light, ornamental, cheap, and durable. Is used, and very
highly approved of, by the English Government Departments and
by the Royal Engineers.
References given to Sydney architects and builders by whom it has been already used
wtth unqualified approval and success.
AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION OF 1878.
Before using any other roofing material, call and inspect the above at
TOZER OO.,
287 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt.street
The PARTS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT is under the management of Send
ALBERTO E. GEISMARDO, from Paris, decorated with the Gold Legion of Honor-
professional Glove Fitter to the hand). The Department is fitted out in the Continental
style, and Ladies and Gentlemen can now have their Gloves fitted on at the counter as
done in Paris. This excellent plan of fitting Gloves is commanding a thorough appreciation.
THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
Prices guaranteed the Lowest in the City.
KID GLOVES of all descriptions in the iatest style
KID GLOVES fitted to the hands without extra
charge
KID GLOVES from 3 to 30 Buttons
KID G LOVES, Mosquetaire style, 8 Buttons length,
4s. 6d.
KID GLOVES, Mosquetaire style, 10 Buttons
length. Suede, 4s. per pair
KID GL' )VE3, Sarah Bernhardt style. Suede, 4?. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 6 Buttons, Gs.
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 6 Buttons, 4s. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 4 Buttons, 5s.
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 4 Buttons, 3s. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES, Josephines, 4 Buttons, 3s. 6d per
pair
KID GLOVES for Gentlemen, walking, 4s. Cd.
per pair
KID GLOVES for Gentlemen evening, 4s. 6d. and
5s. per pair
KID GLOVES for Ladies, Kid Gauntlets, 3s. to 10s.
per pair
KID GLOVES for Ladies, Gauntlets, velvet tops
KID GLOVES, fur tops, Gauntlets, lined
KID GLOVES for Misses, in every variety.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Oiticura
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
H E R SPEECH RESTORED.
Clair View, Inverell, December 10,1883,
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear Sirs.—I beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following 1 on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken place in my own family. I am a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good results;
but it is of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I wish to tell you. she retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. My
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines; and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again.
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil—about three months after she was
taken ill—I persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
It on her throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever,
and has been able to do so ever since.
1 remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
JAS. R. HATCHER.
the heritage of WOE!
Misery, sname, and agony, often bequeathed as
a sole legacy to children by parents, is neglected
scrofula. To cleanse the blood of this hereditary
boison, and thus icmove the most prolific cause of
human suffering, to clear the Skin of Disfiguring
•minors, Itching Tortures, Humiliating Eruptions,
and Loathsome Sores caused by lr, to purify and
beautify the Skin, and restore the Hair so that no
trace of the disease remains, Cutioura Resolvent,
me new Blood Purifier, and Cutioura aud Cuti-
ujra Soap, the great Skin Cures and Beau tl fie re,
are infallible. They are the only remedies that
succeed when physicians and all other means fa'I.
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
xineum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticctra and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bail Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Ennsmla, Pyiemia,Leucorrhoea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Tmpure.or Impovefishod condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
i age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Dlood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of ail Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Hiflniors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunfeurn, and Rough, Chapped, o -easy Skin.
C«rt4cura Remedies, are absolutely pure, ana
the on4y real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautillers
free (from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For «ale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonics. Price,
Gutiouba, 50 cents per box, large boxes, 31.00;
•Cutioura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
•Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, 31.00 per
ibottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.S.A.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
It is impossible to remain long sick or out
of health where Hop Bitters are used. See
another.
WEtitiS’ “ rvOUGH on Corns.”— Ask for Wells
Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
Captain Mr. L. Montague; committee, Messrs. Cox,
Montague, and Klppax. The season will be opened
next Saturday.
The Nepean syndicate left no stone un-
turned to try and induce Beach to row on the
Nepean, and, as a last resource, offered him the
large sum of £400, should he lose, and if he won,
£300 in addition to the stake of £500 ; but our
champion stuck to his colours like a “ white man,
and refused all their overtures, for which act,
worthy of a champion, it Is to be hoped the lovers
of aquatics and our old champion course will not see
him a pecuniary loser. Trickett has gone to
Queensland, but had he stayed In Sydney we have
a better opinion of Ned than to think our ex-
champion, and at one time champion sculler of the
world, would have lent himself to the Hanlan
party after his defeat by Beach. As a last resource
Elias Laycock has been brought forward, just off
a sick bed, and substituted for the pair first
named. We do not suppose Laycock can he as
good a sculler as he was before his accident, which
In a man of his years must take more effect than
on a younger man, and even at his best there are
first-class judges who think he could not have
bested Beach, so that until he has defeated
him the term championship would seem a mis-
nomer in the articles for the Nepean race, and
only makes the affair look more ridiculous. That
Laycock will have any show of beating the Cana-
dian, at first sight appears preposterous; but the
“ glorious uncertainty ” is not confined to the
turf, as evidenced by the fact that Laycock in
England lost the Sportsman Cup and a lot of Aus-
tralian money, and, a few days afterwards, de-
feated Boyd, a man who could row rings round the
pair who defeated Laycock for the Cup.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
It is said that the Queenslanders made
over £400 out of the venture in paying the Aus-
tralian Eleven £300 and expenses for two matches
at Brisbane There’s bound to be a good deal of
betting on Beach-that is the Parramatta River
beach.. .Donald Dinnie proposes abeneflt to “Pro-
fessor ” Miller.... Coates C.C. scored 75 against the
Defiance C.C. s 14, at Parramatta, on Saturday last.
Bvrnes took 4 wickets for 4, and Pilcher 6 for 7.
♦ * *
Jem Mace offered to bet £1000 in England
that no man could knock him out in four rounds,
Marquis of Queensbury rules, with gloves or bare
knuckles, although he is 5 J years old — Sullivan
says that he is going round the world to meet
every living fighter who will face him, and then he
will retire from the ring — In America, John
Teemer and P. J. Conley have signed articles of
agreement to row three miles with a turn, at Pull-
man, 111., on May 30, for a purse of £400....The
largest racing establishment in England is the
Duke of Hamilton’s, in charge of Richard Marsh,
consisting of 50 head, of which 33 are two-year-
olds. The next largest is that of Lord Rosebery,
in charge of Joseph Cannon, and consisting of 33
head. In France, the Duke of Castries has 49 head
in charge of Tom Carter. Mr. H. Jennings has 38;
Mr. H. Delamarre, 34 ; Baron G. de Rothschild, 38;
Count de Juigne and d’Arenberg, 47.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.}
RACING.
Brewarrina May 6, 7.
Wagga May 7, 8.
Murrumbidgee J.C ..May 7, 8.
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14, lo.
Hay 1*. 1H>
South Australian J.C May 10,15,17.
Canterbury Park • lV, 57 H’
Albert Goldfields ..May 21,23.
Bourke May 33, 33, 34.
Sydney Turf Club May 34.
Newcastle J.C • • May 34.
Queensland Turf Club May 24, 3o.
Richmond J.C May 39.
Liverpool May 31.
Mudgee R.O June 4,5.
Coolah •
Coonamble J une 18,19.
Clarence River J.C .July 9,10.
Rockhampton J.C July 10,11.
Hawkesbury August 31,33.
AQUATIC.
Solomon v. Gulliford .May^3.
Brett v. Wood
Mathieson v. Nichols May 10.
Guliford (201b.) v. M’Clerken May 17.
Glebe R.C., Senior Pair Oars May 17.
“ Hippodrome ” on the Nepean May 33.
ATHLETICS.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports May 17.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 34.
Boyston College Sports May 31.
Casino £30 Handicap May 34.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 35.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap, £300 May 36.
Queen’s School Sports May 38.
Sydney Grammar School Sports May 31.
CYCLING.
Chapman v. Rolfe May 5,
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10.
N.S.W. Cyclists Union Association, Cricket
Ground May 34
Those Irish-Americans who are subscribing
their dollars to purchase dynamite to help blow
up old England, exterminate the British, and
generally make it hot for John Bull, are (not to
put to tine a point on it) damnable scoundrels.
War should be square fighting, not treacherous
stabbing and exploding. No doubt of that I But
then, there should be a sort of reciprocity of
squareness. Between the heartless provisions of
monstrous coercion laws and the violent reaction
of those who have tasted its rigours, there is but
small difference in the degree of guilt. And as for
mere expression of hate, there is not a ha’p’orth to
choose twixt rabid Irishers and rabid Britishers.
The latter have long applauded to the echo the
facetious and eminently Christian sentiment that
the remedy to cure Brin of her troubles is a twenty
four hours’ submersion under water; why then
should they take it so ill that excitable and resent-
ful Irishmen should believe that “some thunder
shocks in the neighbourhood of Westminster,” or
“ a clean sweep of London ” is theipreclse medicine
wherewith to doctor old England ? One thing is
certain, that is, it is impossible for the wickedest
and bloodiest-minded of the Irish-American
dynamitards to conceive in their black hearts any-
thing more outrageously diabolical against Eng-
land than British Parliaments in solemn session
have over and over again not only conceived but
enacted against the peace and prosperity of Irish-
men.
On the subject of hydrophobia a simple
minded seeker after truth has been writing to a
Melbourne paper. Says this innocent—" Could
some of your enlightened readers kindly inform
me if the destruction of a dog that has bitten a
Serson is a safeguard or preventative against
ydrophobia? And if, as is asserted and pretty
generally believed, a dog that has bitten a person
should at any subsequent period become rabid,
the person bitten will also become rabid, and be
simultaneously and similarly affected hydropho-
bically? ” Emphatically, we answer “yes,” to this
correspondent, and if ever he catches a fever from
another party, and that party happens to take a
turn for the worse, why he'll take a turn for the
worse too in the same hour—“simultaneously,” in
fact. Everything that’s “generally believed,”
must be correct. That “ you can marry a first
cousin, but musn’t marry a second cousin you
know,” is “ generally believed,” (by the same
creatures who cherish the dog theory) so, of
course, it must be a fact. And we warn this corre-
spondent that if ever he bites us, we shall have
him destroyed immediately ; not wishing to ter-
minate a brilliant literary careeer in a lunatic
asylum.
The Press (with a capital “ P ”) is the bul-
work of our liberties, the panoply of peace, the
harbinger of progress, and the Lord-knows-what of
this age, and should be encouraged. Without an
unshackled Press, we should be trodden under the
feet of tyranny. Renegade Kings, corrupt Min-
istries, public immoralities, and all that, would be
rampant unless the Press were vigilant. It is,
tkerefore, but a feeling of brotherly sympathy
that Induces us Just to stretch out the tail of
encouragement to our brother of the Cooktown
Herat.!) in the deadly struggle in which he is
engaged. You have our best wishes, old boy, and,
if our cheers come as spontaneously and heartily
as they do now (and they always will, on just
cause shown), there will be a tornado of hip, hips,
rending the air between here and Cooktown, com-
pared to which the Bowen cyclone was as the
whisper of a policeman when he says, “Gimme
what's an ye, and devil a one of me will run yiz
in.” Putting on his coat of mail, he let out:
“ Writing oi footpath obstructions, what was that
large cask doing on the footpath in front of
Alderman Dick's store? There is little wonder
that people complain when aldermen commit a I
breach of municipal bye-laws.”
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Soul Says.
Wherefore have I thus to suffer.
Wherefore from the void unreal,
Came I with a wandering terror,
Shuddering, to this half-existence ;
To the law of weary darkness ;
Darkness deeper than th’ Egyptian
Felt In every hall and palace,
When the breath of the Almighty
Shadowed him with ghostly meaning.
Thoughts that in the days departed
Were a portion of my being
(Hazy shades that came to mock me),
Hover in the forms of angels
Round about me, and they whisper—
“ Knowest thou that thou art immortal,
That thy sorrow is the surging
Of a strange and boundless ocean
Which shall one day calm for ever I”
Tell me, angels, when will that bo ?
“ Not till suns have ceased their shining.
Not till moons ha/e lost their lustre,
And the stars' bright light is faded ;
Not till time is all forgotten,
And the things that are, are ended.”
Saintly Maiden.
Oh, for a maiden such as I
In sunset visions see ;
Or oft in midnight walks descry
When musing dreamily,
A maiden pure as she who first
On man in sweetness smiled ;
Eve by the Serpent’s wiles accurst,
She fell in sin defiled.
A maiden free from earthly dross
As seraphs throned above ;
Who meekly bears the rudest cross,
Her only idol, love.
But once a saintly shape like this
Across my vision passed ;
Too fair the form—too sweet the bliss,
Too fragile all to last.
Yet, questing still, I’ve sought to meet,
Her equal, but in vain ;
Still, on earth’s angels incomplete,
Sin casts its darkling stain.
Till saddened by the futile chase
I longed to range afar ;
And launching into boundless space,
Ay, further than yon star,
Some being quest of stainless mould,
All sunshine and all joy ;
Whose burning love would ne’er grow cold,
Whose charms would never cloy.
But reason curbed the wish as wild,
To maniac thought assigned ;
From man perfection far exiled
He vainly seeks to find.
Yet when this pilgrimage is o’er,
And breaking on the sight;
Celestial Aden shines before
An earnest of delight;
Mayhap upon that radiant shore
Some hourl-shapo may rise ;
To bless the pilgrim evermore
With bliss that earth denies.
HECTOR A. STUART.


F UKNITURB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLE Y, * t-WTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring- streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and sii>b
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES.
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
TTUALL CABINETS’- for Choice China, &c.
f V VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
T7HJRNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
X? THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EIGHT-POUND BEDRO.OM SUITES—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, cheat drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30s:
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s6d: Tables, from7s6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 36s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s:
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
S
a
jOQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
iCCASIONALlTABLBS, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
O
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection Invited,
"Th R A WIN G-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JLF A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
EXTENDING DINING TABt(E, with patent
screw and two leaves : LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
D
lELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
'sa
m
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious In its
construction; works automatically. T*l«e above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It Is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash— strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches In thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT Items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites-
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment la Chippendale, Early English,,
and other designs, which can be upholstered ini
any materials to meet the taste and requirements 1
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, In Oak,,
falnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL.
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery;-
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and.
LAMB.
EDSTBADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb*-
F
Wal
B
■JgEDDING.-AU
nell-street.
descriptions at lowest rates;.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-r
w
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 35s each. BRAD-
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMB. ..
k \ AititKJy beats, 30s; Verandah Chairs,.
VX INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
"W3BNTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
X-f Assortment: best make, low est prices.
SOCIAL.
A. little contretemps happened at a wed-
ding breakfast in a southern suburb on Easter
Monday. When the bride was called upon to cut
the cake, her hand seemed to falter, and she de-
clared she could not do It. The failure was of
course attributed by sympathising friends to
nervousness at finding herself for the first time in
such a delicate and novel position. So the bride-
groom stepped up, and attacked the cake. But
after much manly struggling, which made him
red in the face and hot all over, he also “ caved
In.’’ After the best man and the bride's father
had each failed, they introduced a tomahawk to
the cake, and knocked it out in one round. It was
made of wooden blocks covered with tinfoil and
plaster of Paris. The confectioner hai inadvert-
ently sold his window sample.
* * •
A blase youth, who had been “ taken by a
friend ” to a Darlinghurst party, tottered languidly
Into the supper room as one of the waltzes struck
up, and dropped his eight stone of feeble gentility
into a chair. He had lived some twenty years in
this poor little world, and you could see he under-
Btood everything in it, and considered it quite an
inferior sort of affair. “ Not dancing this ? ”
Queried a quiet, elderly person. “No, daddy,” he
leplied from the depths of his two-stud collar,
not good enough—shall stop here and punish the
old gentleman’s sherry." “But the ladies—”
suggested the quiet person, politely. * Smother
the ladles I ” said the weary youth ; “ why don’t
you go to ’em yourself I ’ “ Oh,” was the reply,
still quietly. “ I am the old gentleman I ”
• • •
The Fayre at St. James’, Forest Lodge, has
been crowded every night since Easter Day, which
says much for its attractiveness. Every evening
the fountain has played amid its ferns and flowers,
and the little queen, Mis? Slattery, has headed the
precession round the hall; and every evening the
names of winners of prizes have been called out,
and the cushions and tea-caddies handed away.
Court ladies are pressing in their attentions, and
there is one particular Dolly Varden with a dim-
pled face and dainty smiles, who won’t listen to
“ No.” So you are a victim, and as you turn away
are confronted by a nurse or peasant, who “takes
your name.” And as she writes, on a shaky bit of
paper, you feel confident she will never be able to
read it again; so then you are comfortable, know-
ing you can’t possibly be loaded with anything to
carry away. You are turned over to a little
blonde with windy hair and a fluffy veil, who tries
one more squeeze (we are speaking pecuniarly),
and passes you on to the local Mary Anderson, who
Is very young, and dressed in a short blue from
and other things. There is a little red-coated post-
boy, who lags a bit on his journeys; and some of
the sweetest Hebes preside over the cake counter,
and pour out Starkey's nectar for smitten youths.
The Fayre is to close on Saturday night.
* * •
The Hon. John Campbell gave a large and
most fashionable garden party, on Wednesday last
Week, at “ Clones,” Petersham, which might bo
oonsidered part of the memorable festivities
which have been stirring the ecclesiastical world
of Sydney for the last week or two. The lawns
and garden walks of “Clunos” were dotted with
promenaders, all prominent people in the fashion-
able episcopalian circles, and the display of toilet-
tes, though not of a startling character, was both
rich and chaste. Bishops, vicars, wardens, and other
church dignitaries largely leavened the assem-
blage; and as the afternoon was a glorious one,
and the Naval Brigade band diffused their strains
through the shrubbery and grounds, the affair was
decorously enjoyable. Over three hundred guests
were present, and Compagnoni’s refreshments
were daintily served in large tents erected for the
purpose. Dusk found most of the company separ-
ated.
• • •
The circumstance of brides being invari-
ably described as charming girls is owing, we
suppose, to the fact that charming girls invariably
become brides. Those who will cast their thoughts
back to the time of Ye Catholic Fayre, two years
as?o, will remember that It was not the wares upon
the stalls, but the fair ladles themselves, who led
the male population into the church. And they
are leading them into the church still. A case
occurred only last week. Among the bevy of
beauty thon, none was more the centre of admira-
tion than the young lady who was the chief figure
fn another fair scone on Wednesday lastatWool-
lahra. when a crowded gathering at St. Joseph’s
Church bespoke the interest felt in the marriage
of Miss A. of Mr. Andrew
Cummins, of “ Clareyille,” Woollahra, to Mr. M.
Stephen Foley, of this city. The Kev. Father
Dunn performed the ceremony of the wedding
and the mass: Miss Compton played the organ,
while Mrs. F. J. lllley’s clear ringing voice in the
Ave Marla was never heard better. Exquisitely
pretty looked the happy bride, her fair face aglow
with “the light of love, the purity of grace,” as
»he stood at the altar attended by two of
her own sisters and one of the bridegroom’s.
Her dress was a splendid ivory wkite brocade and
moire, made full and with large train ; it was
trimmed with lace and white flowers, and over a
trailing wreath of lilies of the valley fell the long
tulle veil. The three bridesmaids were. Miss Kate
Foley in a pretty pink toilette ; and Misses Sarah
and Ellen Cummins, in pale blue silk and white
lace. On conclusion of the ceremony, the wed-
ding party drove out to Sandringham, where the
dejeuner was spread at Rust's Hotel, and Father
Foran, who took the chair, proposed the toast of
bride and bridegroom ; Mr. P. R Larkin toasting
the bridesmaids in his own humorous way. The
bright weather and genial company made the
breakfast a merry one, and the whole party then
returned to town, where at Nithsdale rooms,
which were adorned in honour of the event, a ball
was held in the evening, and a number of other
guests Joined in. With ample room, music by Mr.
E. Needs and assistants, ami a champagne supper
served by Compagnoni, there was everything
to make the ball agreeable. White program-
mes, emblematic of the occasion, contained
25 dances, which opened with a march led off by
the bride and bridegroom, and finished with a
medley. Mr. and Mrs. A. Cummins were, of
course present, r. B. Foley (best man), and a
number of elderly friends of the familiei. The
happy pair remained till at out II o’clock, and then
started on their honeymoon towards Melbourne.
Among the costumes, that of the bride's mother
was one of the hundsom sb, a rich chestnut brown
satin, trimmed with broad white lace, and worn
with head-dress of poppy-rod flowers Mrs Wood,
of Yarranuog.lnear P Rhra, wore a handsome blue
satin dress, with white honeycombed front to the
bodice, and skirt of white silk and blue combined.
Mrs. K. Foley, wore the loveliest pink satin imagi-
nable, with puffs and rows ot little box pleats
hung over with fine white lace. Mrs. Larkin was
In claret satin and broad flounces of white lace,
and Mrs. Walsh, in blue satin and black lace.
From the South, was Miss Collins, of the Oaks,
and from die Jot a was Miss Grainger, of
Glen Inues, in white satin and ruby velvet
panels. Miss Purcell's ivory corded silk was
very handsome, and setoff with canary feathers in
the hair. The Three Graces might be considered
as represented by three ladies in v hlte who quite
merited the nan e. A good dancer from Newtown,
Miss E. Davis, wore a silk of pale greeny blue with
ruby chenille buds. A petite pair were in pink
ottoman and broche respectively; a pretty Bourkc-
street maiden in blue and white lace; a manj-
flounced pink cashmere and black velvet, loaded
with daisies, was worn by a nice dancer, of Surry
Hills; a ficelle corded silk and flowers looked taste-
ful; and a tall lady was gracef ul in pink satin and
veiling. And so on. The cool conservatory, open
to the starlit sky, formed a favourite resort, and
when three o’clock brought the ball to an end, all
the guests went home contented and pleased.
A fairly good concert was held for the
C.E.T.S. In St. John’s schoolroom, Darllnghurst, on
Monday night, and, despite rain, the room was full.
Mrs. Palmer, who organized the concert, was pre-
siding spirit at the piano, and opened with her
younger daughter in the duet “Preciosa.” Mr. J.
F. Kennedy followed with a song “ Tell her I love
her,” in a pleasing baritone, and afterwards sang
“ Barbara Allen.” A piano and flute duo was
soporiflcally smooth, and a young gentleman’s solo
"At Bay.” well received. Two banjo pieces were
played by Mr. A. Chuokerbutty, which, though
they caused laughter among the gentle members
of the piano-persecuting sex present, wore clever,
Mr. Wilkinson gave two funny songs, and Misses
G Palmer and L. Dempster played the “ Dinorah ”
duo carefully. The best items were certainly a
contralto solo by Mrs. Campbell-Williams—name
not given, and Liszt’s “ Khapsodie Hongroise,”
played by Miss Palmer, with an exquisite touch
many ladies must have envied. Probably the
least enviable thing during the concert would be
the feelings of a gentleman who inadvertently
made himself conspicuous. An apology having
been read from Bishop Barry, explaining that he
could not come, this hasty individual commenced
clapping his hands vigorously, but when no one
else followed, it seemed to dawn upon him that he
was a victim of ill-timed enthusiasm. The only
possible inference from his burst of applause was
that he approved of the Bishop’s absence, whereas
he, no doubt, meant the opposite. But some peo-
ple have an ineradicable habit of clapping when-
ever a big man’s name is mentioned, and this
gentleman proved a shocking example of the occa-
sional result.
• • •
St. Ignatius’ Church, Bourke, was crowded
on Sunday week last, to witness the marriage of
Miss Martin to Mr. T. 8. O’Brien, of Brisbane. The
bride looked charming in white satin and brocaded
silk, beautiful lace, »nd orange blossoms. Miss A.
Martin (sister of the bride) wore pale blue nun’s
veiling, and brocaded silk, forget-me-nots and
jasmine. Two other bridesmaids (Misses Norma
and Ethel Green, daughters of the ex-mayor) wore
pale blue silk, forget-me-nots, and white jasmine.
The Mayoress of Bourke wore mauve silk and
cream broche. The wife of the ex-Mayor wore
black silk velvet, trimmed with white silk lace.
Several other beautiful costumes were also worn.
On leaving the church a graceful tribute was paid
to the bride, many of her old pupils strewing her
path with flowers. At the wedding breakfast the
chair was taken by his worship the Mayor, who
spoke in the highest terms of the benefits con-
ferred on the residents by the Young Ladies’
Seminary, conducted by the Misses Martin. The
bride was the recipient of a large number of beau-
tiful presents. At a farewell dance held in the
Mechanics’ Institute, on the 18th, attended by the
elite of Bourke, the Mayor presented the Misses
Martin with a purse of 50 sovereigns, as a testi-
mony of the high appreciation in which those
ladles were held by the residents.
r, * *
Ou Monday last Mr. Donald Vernon, secre-
tary for the N.S.W. Railways, left Melbourne per
M.M. steamer Yarra, for an English holiday trip,
after twenty years’ continuous work. A tew of
his Sydney friends bade him good-bye in the ;
Traffic Manager’s office on Thursday, before he /
left for Melbourne.
* • •
Mr. William Pritchard, famous in Leich-
hardt and elsewhere, was banqueted by his friends
at Compagnoni’s on Monday night in testimony to
his past efforts. The chair was occupied by the
Hon. John Sutherland, with Messrs. Mainer and
Booth in the vice-chairs. A numerous company
assembled round the well-spread tables, conspicu-
ous amongst them being STr John Robertson,
Messrs. Hutchinson and Abigail, M’sL.A.; and
representatives of several metropolitan munici-
palities. The usual list of toasts was faithfully
carried out, although those relating more particu-
larly to local matters afforded an Inducement for
oratory which some of the guests couldn’t resist.
Mr. Booth summed up the position for them, how-
ever, in a few monosyllables. “The men you’ve
got,” he said; “you put ’em in. If you don’t like
’em that’s your look out. Do better next time.”
Mr. Abigail discharged the duty of presenting
an address to Mr. Pritchard with a moderate
and well-received speech, and then Mr. Pritchard
had his innings, Ho reviewed his past life, the
principles that had guided him, and his conduct
while holding municipal office. Verily, he must
have been a lash to the backs of the slothful. Mr.
Sutherland let it be known at a later period of the
evening that Mr. Pritchard had managed to accu-
mulate a fortune; and the company hailed with
delight the fact that that gentleman had succeeded
in combining public office with private pursuits
without detriment to his own interests. This is
what wo like to see. Compagnoni’s spread capiral.
Vote of thanks to the chairman; and the company
separated, to the strains of “God Save the Queen,”
carrying with them the recollection of a jovial
evening into as rainy and miserable a night as ever
found us without an umbrella.
• • «
On the of next month the Sydney Owl
Club ball will again be held in the Town Hall. No
one has worked harder for the Owl Club than the
gentlemen (Messrs. Menser and Clarke) who have
undertaken the arrangements, and we fetl sure
they will make their ball, as before, one of the
most brilliant of the season.
* *
On Saturday afternoon last the thirty-
third annual Commemoration of our University
took place before a very crowded assemblage of
ladies and gentlemen, who some time before two
o'clock completely filled the large Hall of the
building. The crush was so great that many
persons who came rather late were unablo to find
scats anywhere; however, notwithstanding this
fact, those so situated preferred to remain, but
were obliged to stand during the whole proceed-
ings. A few, neither so patient nor so courageous
u der the ordeal, stayed about an hour, and then,
tired out, departed. At intervals during the after-
noon Mr. Joseph Massey played some selections
on the organ, out the instrument being rough and
harsh in tone is not calculated to display a per-
former’s talent to advantage. When Bishop Barry
appeared on the scene great effortswere made to get
a glimpse of him, as, with slow tread and imposing
mien, attired in full canonical robes, he passed up
bo the dais heralded by the strains of the
National Anthem. Numerous ladies, in their desire
for a peep, stood upon their chairs, quite forget-
ting that by doing so they totally obstructed the
view of those unfortunately in their rear. The
scene was rather an Imposing one when all the
various dignitaries had taken their places arrayed
in their gala dress, and the sun shone in with
soft and mellowed light through the coloured
gla°8 windows, brightening up the massive dark
stone of the flue and lofty had. The large oil
painting of the late Dr. Badham was wreathed all
round the frame with laurel leaves, no doubt the
handiwork of some of his scholars. As each suc-
cessful name of the candidates for honours or
degrees was read out, the students cheered more
or less enthusiastically. These young gentlemen,'
in their hilarity of spirit, were disposed to be
rather noisy now and then—notably so during the
Chancellor’s address, which was decidedly a little
tedious, although, perhaps, unavoidably so. A
large number of ladies graced the building with
their fair presence, and a bewildering and varied as-
s rrtment of fashionable and elegant toilettes were
to bo seen in all directions, though limited space
. will allow only a tew to be specially mentioned.
’ Lady Stephen wore black, and Miss Stephen pea-
cock blue: Mrs. Wilkinson, black, and deep cream
bonnet; Miss Neill, black, and red chapeau: Miss
Q. Eagar, a pretty olive green cloth costume; Miss
Windeyer, black; Miss Garran was in blue; Mrs.
John Smith in black, with grey plumes in bonnet;
Miss A. Gordon, from Melbourne, wore ruby cash-
mere; Miss Marsh (Yass), navy blue satin; Mrs. G.
H. Burton looked well in dark claret ottoman silk;
and a bride from a Wesiern suburb looked nice in
prune satin and cream brocade. The masher was
almost ubiquitous, and a ridiculous and laughable
object he is, with his huge collar and tight gar-
ments. Oh! could we “ but see ourselves as others
see us!” A well-known young barrister escorted
a lady who donned coffee brown cloth and pom-
pons ; and an esteemed medico hailing from a
marine suburb was in attendance upon a dark-
eyed belle in fawn satin. The Chancellor’s address
closed the proceedings, which were over by half-
past four o’clock.
• • •
In the Freemasons’ Hall, Wagga Wagga,
on Thursday evening last, a very successful ball
was held under the auspices of the Mechanics’
Cricket Club. Messrs. Broadhurst (pianoforte) and
Lilly (cornet) discoursed sweet music to about
forty couples, and Mr. E. Spring catered in his
best style. The programme of 36 dances was got
through before daylight, “Qod save the Queen”
bringing the night’s amusement to a close. A
local lady, tastefully dressed in a very becoming
costume of black and pale blue satin, trimmed
with cream lace, was considered to be the belle.
* * * ♦
Wicket-keeper Hymen -will lower the
stumps of E. F. Tylecote, the well-known English
bat in July next, to the bowling of a Sunbury i
young lady An afternoon party on the Nelson
last Saturday was a pleasant outing for a number
of ladies and gentlemen, and pretty toilettes, con-
verse and dancing passed the time till dusk Dr.
L. L. Smith gave a ball last week in the Melbourne
Exhibition committee room, which was rather too
crowded. A number of well-known society ladies
attended. It was given to his personal friends and
the committee The Ladies’ Club is now open in
Collins-street, Melbourne. It provides several
rooms, well furnished, and the sub. is 6s. a quarter.
It is likely to be more a useful than a fashionable
institution at that price On the 33rd ult., Miss
Annie Cripps was married at Parramatta to Mr.
Roland Nicnols ; six bridesmaids in cream veiling,
interested sightseers in church, and a large party
in the Masonic Hall at night, marked the event.
Lord Charles Scott is a happy father
Mr. L. Badham, son of the late Dr. Badham, lec-
tured on poets and poetry in Inverell, last month.
He had a poor audience....An overlander, who
had been a long time on the back blocks, saw two
mashers in King-street. After attentively survey-
ing them, he turned into Hodge’s, muttering to
himself, “Gosh! what things we do see when we
alnt got no gun.*’ A public ball was held in the
new Masonic Hall, Castlereagb-street, on Friday
evening last. There was a good band provided,
but the attendance was meagre, and the aspect of
the dancers generally, rather doleful, until supper
had a little livening effect. There was a good deal
of space on the floor In about three weeks, a
f rand ball will gladden the hearts of fair Hebrews,
t will mark the return of a couple lately married
with some distinction at the Synagogue On
Friday last, the first Glebe Point Private Assembly
was bold in the Town Hail, Glebe. About 100 pre-
sent; Compagnoni catered, and with good music,
albeit an indifferent floor, the Glebers had a capi-
tal evening, breaking up about 1 a.m. The ladies
are certainly indebted to the gentlemen of the
committee, who undertook the task of starting
these assemblies in their midst so conveni-
ently, and there is every prospect of their
success continuing throughout the season ...
Last week, numbers of ladies and gentlemen
visited the canary show, w here 700 of the pretty
little twltterers were on view. They ranged all
colours, from brown and buff to palest straw and
deepest orange red. A lady looking at the “ cop-
pies,” with their little topknots parted in the
middle, said they “looked just like mashers.”
At Whangaroa regatta (N.Z.) there was a pulling
race for ladles—A social reunion was held in
Grafton to aid the building of the new cathedral
there, which they expect Bishop Barry to open
Last Wednesday (33rd ult.), Miss M. A.
McGee, a relative of Mr. John Harris, ex-
Mayor, was wedded to Mr. T. F. Johnson,
who donated to the three pale-blue-clad brides-
maids each a gold monogram brooch. The bride
wore ivory silk and lace with court train. Break-
fast at Ultimo, honeymoon to Melbourne, ball
next week Miss Blphinstone Dick’s new gym-
nasium for ladies is a fashionable resort for
vigorous girls. It is 100 feet long and 35 wide,
elegantly painted, furnished and ti- ted, and is
situated in the centre of the city Over a score
of ladies were brought before the Wellington
Bench, charged with illegally raffling goods at a
Church Bazaar. The court was crowded with
ladies. After a hearing of five hours, the charge
was dismissed, on the ground that the raffling was
for a charitable object. The Mudgee magistrate,
however, recently fined several ladies for the
same act.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
S.A.A.C. Sports May 3.
Eureka Plain and Fancy Ball (Tattersall’a
Hall) May 6.
Plumbers’ and Gasfitters’ Picnic (Botany)...May 6.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nlthsdale) May 9.
Suburban Bicycle Club Sports May 10.
Ashfleld Assembly May 16.
Rand wick Races May 24.
Glebe R.C. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms) May 30.
North Shore R.C. Annual Ball (Nlthsdale).. June 5.
Sydney O wl Club Annual Ball (Town Hall). .June 12.
Sydney, Wednesday.,
Dearest Belle,—I was right glad to see such a
large and fashionable audience at the Matinee
last Wednesday. Whether It is that Madame Marius
and Miss ihorapson have more than the average
energy, or whether the people are now more ap-
preciative of such things, I know not, but cer-
tainly I never saw an afternoon concert better
attended, with the exception of those which were
by Invitation only, it would have been better I
think had there been a novelty down on the pro-
gramme. like Bessie Doyle's violin solo at the last
concert, but I suppose we must not expect tuch a
rarety every time. Madame Marius was down for
no less than four vocal solos, which I think was a
mistake, as hers is not the class of voice to stand
so severe a tax without in some degree suffering
for the exertion. In this instance, however,
Madame stood the test falrlv, but was certainly best
in her second solo “ Pur dicesti ” which she
sang really well. I was disappointed to see
that Miss Thompson found it necessary to
use her music when playing Mendelssohn's
“Andante Cantabile and Presto Agitato,” for
as a rule she entirely dispenses with it.
Schuloff's “ Etude de Concert ’’ was most bril-
liantly executed by the same lady, the rapid
repeated notes ringing out clear and crisp. “ O’er
the Hills of Normandy ” was the only song down
for Miss Thompson. I like her singing; not that
her voice is either powerful or of the purest
quality, but a nice unaffected manner, to-
gether with a musicianly way of rendering
pretty and uncommon songs, go a long way
towards pleasing us. Miss A. Roberts played “ The
Last Hope ” with much skill. This young lady
has plenty of confidence, which enables her to do
herself the utmost justice in her public perform-
ances. What a grand thing nerve is I We are just
a little bit tired of hearing Mr. Rainford sing, but,
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)


Adolph Ruhe, chief of officer the Batman,
lately stranded at Algiers, gave evidence before
the Steam Navigation Board in Melbourne to the
effect that John M‘Leod, chief engineer, was
drunk on the occasion of the mishap. The Board
found the charge proved, but before suspending
M'Leod for a month read a bundle of testimonials
he handed in. One of these was written by Adolph
Kuhe himself, and certified that John M‘Leod was
a very sober and trustworthy man, always atten-
tive to his duties, and “ I can safely recommend
him to any master or owner who may require his
services.” After a while Captain Fullarton looked
about him, and, clearing his throat, observed;
“ That shows the value of testimonials?”
GOULBURN GRAND ART UNIOM,
No. 1.
£16,875. ~ £16,875-
16,875 Subscribers at £1 each.
ONE PRIZE FOB NEARLY EVERY 80 TICKETS.
&T 1st Prize, £3000 ; 2nd, £3000 ; 3rd, £2000 ; 4th
£1870 ; 5th, £1000, 214 prizes from £500 to £1210s.
For tickets, apply to
A. W. BULLEN,
P.O. Box 51, Goulburn, N.S.W.
N.B.—Add exchange and stamp for reply. Full
particulars in “Town and Country Journal’ of
12th April.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor. .
FIRST Class Accommodation lor Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflclent s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJndeitaliex,
84 HUNTER Sc PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhanited
r , powers, premature decoy
k -- 1 and failure t® perform life’s
'' duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect arid leaking
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
stomach dragging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Jfervons Jtteblllty and
c I*hyslcalI>ecayisnniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Fell information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., B2 Castleroagh St., Sydney
Finest cigarettes, finest cigarettes
ARE
VANITY" FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester. U.3.A.
MATRIMONIAL —Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tiou, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W.,*Box 766 G.P.O., Sydney.
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
TEA. ASSOCIATION.
** 2s. per lb. *** 2s - cd - P er lb -
The TEAS sold
by this Associa-
tion havs been
specially selected
and blended by an
Expert, to meet
the taste and re-
quirements of the
Australian pub-
lic,
&
&
S)
Orr TEAS are
unequalled in the
Australian mar-
ket and unex-
celled in the
world for quality,
flavor & strength
the public may
confidently rely
upon always re-
ceiving a Tea of
uniform standard
and excellence.
[ Registered .]
J. HENOCHSBERG, Manager.
Offices and Depot: 114 Pitt-street, Sydney.
ON THE
Brlclrlield. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
BgT These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 160 PRICES.
in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lao©
tnrtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins- Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving- of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
LJ
-i
it
B
I
W
i
as
i/S A fc*s
iSSSSSaa^iSS33
Sw
a
Price: 12s. 6d., 15s., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
The greatest nourishng tonic, appetizer,
strengtheoer, and curative on earth. Hop Bitters.
See.
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
All agree that handsome hair is one of
beauty’s indispensable elements. Ayer’s Hair
Vigor maintains it in freshness, brightness, and
luxuriance.
Catarrh or thi Bladder.- Stinging irritation,
inflamation, all Kidney ajid similar Complaint,s
cured by “ Buchu-paiba.” Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney, General Agents.
A Mystery.—It is indeed a mystery how
some people, otherwise sensible, are so short-
sighted and foolish as to go on from day to day,
and fnpm month to month, suffering with the
stings and pains of disease, wh ich by the use of a
lew bottles of Bristol's Sarsaparilla and
Pills would, to a perfect certainty, be radically
cured. Do not stand in your ow n light; try them!
John T. McInnbs and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agentsi 26 O’Connell
street, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Imp lements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. SS&~ Agents for
the sale or purchase on ion of Pure-bred
Hfcvdr.*
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
7 LACE CUKTAIN8 [ 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. I LACE curtains]
u.— ■ — J
pr Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Messrs. BIUNSMEaD aud CO., at the
CORNER of BOND and GEORGE STREETS, who
are advertising themselves as the “ AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE BRINSMKAD
PIANOS,” are NOT the AGENTS for the sale of
John Brinsmead and Sons’ Pianos in this colony,
and have no greater privileges in respect thereof
than any member of the outside public. A cable-
gram from London dated 30th April confirms this,
and can be seen at the office of ROYLB and CO.,
Sole Agents, Bond-street.—Anvu.
at the same time. I must own he sang “The
Wanderer” in very good style. Owing to the
fact that the audience was almost entirely com-
posed of ladies, the applause had a suppressed,
muffled sound; it wouldn’t be proper, you know,
dear, for us to clap, &c.; besides, it might burst
our gloves What a conventional lot we are, and
how cold I Mr. Quong Tart’s tea was a happy idea,
for, do you know, dear, the chief objection to
these afternoon concerts used to be that in attend-
ing them we missed our Kettledrum—which made
some of us as cross as a man who has been deprived
of his after dinner smoke.
Seldom at a matimSe has there been so brilliant a
display of dresses as on Wednesday last, which
proves, dear, that it isn’t entirely correct to say
that women dress chiefly to be pleasant in the
eyes of man, as no one expects to see men at an
afternoon concert. But the truth is, I do believe,
a woman respects the opinions of her own sex
most as regards dress; she would rather by half be
dubbed a dowdy by a man than by a woman; what
say you ? I saw Mr. and Mrs. Percy Jones,amongst
tue audience; also Miss Hettie Hyam,/who was
tastefully dressed In a silver gray cashmere, with
elaborate trimming of most beautiful silver gray
brocW and gray silk lace. The whole front width
was composed of the brochd and laee, with here
and there a pearl ornament; white hat and
feathers. By far the handsomest dress was a deep
ruby ottoman velours, elegantly made, with which
was worn the most tasteful of Langtry hats—ruby
being the prevaiUng colour. A moss green satin
and broohe was worn with a handsome black
chenille pelerine and small bonnet, almost entirely
covered with white and pink lilies of the valley. A
magnificent hat was much admired, chiefly on ac-
count of the unusually massive plumes. The colour
was a light fawn-shape duchess, but the feathers—
they were simply indescribable. I rather liked a
fawn silk with numerous bands of terra cotta
velvet round the skirt and tunic. As if she wished
to be out of the common, a young lady with a
pretty face and an enormous black hat wore one
of those quaker-like dresses like that I described
to you in my last letter. The material was plain
brown stuff, and the skirt was simply gathered on
to the waist, the sole trimming being a few small
tucks heading the hem; crinoline, of course. Now,
I wonder what prompts girls to wear such dresses.
Is it that they are so confident of their charms
that they can afford to disregard any attempts to
“paint the Illy,” &c.; or is it that they simply
want to be different from everybody else ? If the
?oung lady in the brown-stuff gown acted on the
ormer reason, I must say she had something to go
upon, for her face was what men would call divine;
if, on the other hand, she aimed at standing alone,
as it were, she attained her object, for there wasn’t
another dress in the hall at all like hers. Two
ladies from Burwood were stylish in black silks
and broche; one wore a small white princess
bonnet, whilst her sister chose a white straw hat,
with ruby velvet and white feathers for trimming.
Miss Thompson, in cream veiling and broche,
looked as neat and stylish as she generally does.
Madame Marius favours dark colours, her costume
being black silk with panels of pale bronze hfoche
or silk, I am not quite certain which. A pretty
little Medici bonnet edged with pearls became her
well. Miss Roberts’s dress of purple velvet, and
large purple hat with pale blue feathers, looked
very gay. I hope the next matindc will be equally
successful, and that in time they will become as
popular as they deserve to be.
Fancy! Maggie Moore is taking the part of Nellie
Denver in “ The Silver King,” and the strange part
of it is that they say she acts the character even
better than Annie Mayor. I am quite curious to
see her, as I cannot imagine her (Maggie Moore)
good in anything except comedy. But it just
proves what a clever little woman she is. The
Polks are doing that funniest of plays, “An Arabian
Night,” at the Opera House, and whenever I ask
anyone if they have been to see it, they answer
by bursting out laughing, and then I know they
have.
A coquettish style of dress body is made with
waistcoat and jacket both of the same material.
The waistcoat buttons down the front, and the
loose fronts of the jacket have enormous buttons
on either side; but sometimes the jacket is caught
asross the waist with steel or nickel elasps, which,
as it serves to define the figure, is preferable. For
angular figures, however, the loose fronts will, if
I mistake not, prove quite a boon.
It is said that the most brilliant diamonds are about
to be eclipsed by electricity. White or coloured
glass illuminated by electricity outshines ev°ry
diamond in the world. The only drawback is, that
the wearer of sueh jewels must submit to the dis-
comfort of having to carry about with her, an
accumulator either in her pocket or in the folds
of her dress. But what of that I You are right in
thinking we are all ds ippointed that Mrs. Langtry
is not going to visit Australia; it would have
been great fun to observe how the devotees of
fashion would have imitated her every movement.
Why I do believe if she were to put up her feet to
have her balmorals blackened in the street by a
common shoe-black, we shouldn’t have to wait
long before others followed suit. But I don’t
think the Lily would choose that way of being
ecceptric, as her feet are rather a sore point with
her, there is rather too much of them in fact.
I saw an advertisement in a Queensland paper
which was as follows “ Wanted a Bank Clerk,
must understand Cricket well.’’ Heard you ever
anything so ridiculous ? It would have been more
to the point to put it thus “ Wanted a good
Cricketer, must know something of book keeping.”
Talking of cricket reminds me that we did not go
to the final match on Saturday, as we were de-
tained by some horrid visitors, who, notwith-
standing that we were all ready to start would not
take their leave, so we had to put a goqfi face upott
it and sit them out and when they did go it was
too late to think of going to the match, so I can
tell you nothing about it.
We intended to have gone to see the last of the
“ Strategist ” on Friday night, but when we heard
of the terrible accident which had happened at
the Redfern station, by which poor young Fletcher
lost his life, we were so saddened that the very
thought of going out to seek enjoyment was
repulsive to us all. 1 could not help picturing to
myself the poor lads going home in the highest of
spirits, their week’s troubles being over, being
Friday, you know, and perhaps talking about the
sports which they were to have taken part in the
next day, I think there is something so touch-
ingly sad about it. Poor fellows! Who could
blame them even if they did go on to the platform
before the train stopped, especially when we
think of the example they have set them by those
who are old enough to know better. Yes, those
youths and men—aye, and grey-haired men, too—
who rush on to the platforms long before they
have any chance of landing, and who remind one
more of wild beasts than human beings in their
anxiety to show their ill breeding, have not a little
to answer for in this. Will they take warning ?
Heaven knows. It seems awfully cruel that this
young life should be sacrificed in order to provide
the warning which should never have been needed.
I did hear that the sports were held on the Satur-
day as if nothing had happened, but gave no cre-
dence to the report, as, even if the boys belongiag
to the College had been heartless enough to enjoy
themselves, their Principals, surely, would never
countenance such want of respect to their dead
comrade, who, but a few hours before, was
amongst them. No, I am certain the report must
have been false. I cannot believe it—I do not
want to believe it, as I am truly loth to think so ill
of my fellow creatures. But I shall be infecting
you with my melancholy if I write more. 8o,
adieu, Ma Belle.—Yours,
MAB.
A Sporting Item.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“To the Bunnerong Road I—to the Bunnerong
Road 1”
O we leaped in the cab, and our hearts overflowed
With the general gladness and copious content
Of Christians who start to behold an event.
“ To the Bunnerong Road I—to the Bunnerong
Road I”
0 gaily the cabby whirled off with his load,
And gaily we swept, In the glee of our hearts
Past the Bunnerong-Road-going crowd in spring-
carts.
O swift past them all, faint and gasping and hot,
The brave little horse bore us first to the spot.
O swift through the mists of the morning, and
bright „
Rose the joyous-faced Sun, just in time for the
Right.
O swiftly the gallant display was arranged,
And money and jubilant “ lip ” interchanged—
Yes, money was staked from a crown to a pound,
’Mid the hundred and fifty now gathered around.
And a ring was kept wide, that the two might
have scope
By a man with a whip—for alas I we’d no rope,
And the heroes were given the word to sail in,
Having stripped to the buff—which you know is
the skin.
Then came the first frantic deep foretaste of bliss—
Ah I Life were a void but for moments like this.
O the godlike hilarity everyone felt
When they saw the bold Shoemaker stripped to
the belt.
And the combat began, and with eyes growing
dim
With emotion I yelled, “ That’s it—smack into him,
Let his bread-basket have it—that’s good I—that’s
immense I
Feel his conk with your left, Alec I Ghost I can’t
he fence?’’
And Johnson and Davis, and Connell apd I,
And all the crowd round us thought “Isn’t it
high ?”
As Ager dodged Lawson around the whole ring,
And got grassed, and came up again, fit as a King.
Oh I a jolly Event 1 a most bully Event
When, showing their gums, for each other they
went.
You could hear Alec’s “dooks”—I'm a cove as
Il8.t68 flbfi
Half a mile away touching the blackfellow’s riba.
You could hear Lawson’s fist—if I He, strike me
dead 1—
Half a mile away, bounce off the little cove’s head.
You could see their veins swell, and hear every
joint crack
As they heard from each other, and answered it
back.
And all of us thought it a Heavenly fight.
And some backed the black, and some others the
white ;
And Davis, producing his flimsy-bag, cried
“The Shoemaker couldn’t get licked if he tried.”
And a Jew-looking coon offered straight five to
four
That the nigger could take him and wipe up the
floor,
Then they barneyed in language a caution to
snakes,
Saying no one they saw there was safe to hold
stakes.
O the mill went on merrily—round after round
Came off fast, and the little cove oft hit the ground,
But still tried to say the whole thing was a spree,
As he sat all ashake on Cornelius’s knee.
Oh the rapture I as, staggering, each hero arose,
And rained on his enemy merciless blows ;
Now ’twas on Alec’s kisser—now on Lawson’s nut,
Now the one gave the other the straight “ under-
cut.”
0 the sight was the bravest we ever beheld,
As each fly-trap and conk grew all bloody and
swelled—
As each bread-bag got “slops,” and each peeper
waxed big,
Until Alec fell stunned by a tap from the nig.
But for my part I thought that it spoiled all the
fun
When he slid from the bloke’s knee, and said he
was “done,”
For I sported a Five on him, knowing him game,
And to cave in like that was a rascally shame.
So we gathered about him and fanned him, and I
Said, “Rouse up, man! you’ll lick him like smoke,
by-and-bye :
Rouse up, Alec 1 come I this is no game to play ;
I’ve backed you—you surely won’t give me
away 1”
But he moved his gashed lips, and looked up in my
face,
And I knew by that look ’twas a genuine “case,”
1 could see he was off, and a chap who stood there
Cried, “ Clear out, all hands I—it’s a Keiler affair.”
So, in fear lest the bobbies might twig us, and nab
All the lot, we made tracks, while the man with
the cab
Drove right up, and we saw them lift Alec inside
Where, after some moments, poor devil, he died.
Well I he lost me the Five, though I don’t mean to
pay,
And went back on his backers, but this 1 will
say :—
He meant well from the first, and tried all he
knew how
To chew up the nigger, and this I’ll allow—
That of all the good times ever Eortune bestowed
Upon me, that half-hour on the Bunnerong Road
Was the best—and wherever my life may be spent
I can scarce hope to see such another Event.


Pi spared according to the directions Ol Prof.
B. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &0.
13 r No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce It a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Hereford's Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give It in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
la derangement or the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says s
“ Hereford's Acid Phosphate Is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or Innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some oases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, ana is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford's Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled, it is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have proscribed it with marked benefit
In indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
IvCsugac Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm."
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, bu
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It euros
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an Internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sure Throat, and Dyp-
ttaeria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for Immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-RMoxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported Ipto this country, and have
gained throughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-soloeted and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand*
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very test
steel and Norway iron, severely tested betoie
used
i BECAUSE the trimmings are of the be.t No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders In Am erica,
and specially oonstruoted for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they ab»
BIST.
American Carriage Emporitfcn,
WTNYAED SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON MOXHAM ft CO*
tola Agent*
One cold after another will, with many
constitutions, securely establish the seeds of Con-
sumption in the system. If you are In need of a
remedy for any Lung trouble, or Throat disease,
you will find Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant always
prompt and efficacious. To be had of all druggists
and store-keepers and wholesale by Elliott
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney,
Political Points
“I have never shaken hands with Mr.
M’Elhone,” said Mr. Young in the Assembly, the
other night, “and if I know myself, I never will.”
Lucky for “ Hands(h)aker ” Mac., whoso paws are
dirty enough as it is.
M’Groarty sent up for six months h.l., for
having, as presiding officer at Woolgar, during the
late Burke (Q.) election, declared that 117 votes
had been polled for one candidate, whereas only 111
persons altogether had voted.
Want to a Watson is “ Hyperion to a satyr,”
and the Gundagecse prefer the satyr. Well, there’s
no accounting for taste I Perhaps, having for some
years been represented by men of political honour
and reputation, they want to see Wat’s on the other
political tack.
Bismarck is perfectly in the right of it
In pointing out that Parliaments are not convened
to gush nil-nisi-bonam-de-mnrtuU sensibilities, but
to conduct important business. 'Twouldn’t be
amiss were the blowd and iron man to be always as
right anent matters parliamentary.
Sir John Hay says the members of the
Upper Chamber are like a band of brothers. We
trust he is wrong: a brotherhood of John Frazers
or John Lucases would be quite too much. The
Nominees are bad enough, but not quite so bad as
their President would make them out.
Herman Merivale thinks that turncoat
Marriott will presently be a candidate for the
Conservative Leadership in the House of Com-
mons. Marriott was once an Anglican parson.
It was by his exertions mainly that the ridicu-
lous old law that a clergyman must always remain
a clergyman was revoked.
Stipendiary Yates of Maitland considers
that to warn a man about to commit a crime so as
to prevent its commission is a healthier sort of
yarn than watching a fellow commit an offence
and then running him in. We agree with Yates.
The fatuous Maitland Mail doesn’t, and malig-
nantly abuses that sensible beak for his honest
expression of a manly sentiment.
The Parramatta Fekqy reports that—
“Through the persistent and indomitable solicita-
tions of our member, there have been placed on
the Estimates for the ensuing year a supplemen-
tary sum of £1000 for the committee of the
Juvenile Industrial Exhibition.” If the item is
passed it will bo a piece of rascality. What has
the State to do with little local specs '/
Mr. Jack Want offered to toss, drink, or
fight the Hon. Jim for the seat at Gundagai, but
the latter wasn’t on. Mr. Slattery, also, it is said,
offered toj back Want for £100, but this was de-
clined. Subsequently Mr. Want declared it was
“ all a joke,” but there was little doubt it was a
joke that told against him at the poll. Constitu-
encies don’t care to be tossed for like so many
drinks.
During ’83 £51,000 was spent by N.S.W. in
purchasing 19 and resuming 30 sites for public
schools. That’s a trifle over the average of £1000
a site—and that’s a precious sight too much. An
ample reservation of public lauds for school pur-
poses should at once be made all over the country,
otherwise there looms in the future a mighty big
bill for the State to pay to the fellows lucky enough
to have their lands resumed for educational pur-
poses.
The M'Elhone-Handsaker case was a dirty
one, yet when Sir John Itobertson declares that in
his opinion it was the most dishonourable thing
that had ever been done since he had been in Par-
liament, now 27 years, we feel compelled, like Mr.
Burchell, to ejaculate “ Fudge 1” Has Sir John
quite forgotten about the Milburn Creek compen-
sation M.P.’s and the Darling Harbour resumption
M.P.’s, and the Coonanbara-hat M.P., and their
little games ?
The greybeard knight of Clovelly sighs for
the good old Parliamentary times, when he had
seen the leaders of the House on both sides in the
custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms - had seen three
members of the Government in the custody of the
Sergeaut-at-Arms at one time—had seen a Minister
of the Crown walk from the Ministerial benches
and go to a gentleman at the other end of the table
and say “You are a liar, and you know it,” and
then walk out of the chamber.
Dailey was neatly ironical when, in answer-
ing Sir Alfred Stephen’s queries anent lotteries, he
remarked, “ I would venture to suggest to him (the
Lieutenant-Governor) that the simplest way to
have the matter settled authoritatively would be
for him to prefer an information against some of
the projectors in these enterprises.” Since
Stephen’s questionable action in informing against
that loyal but misguided wife, Dailey evidently
regards him as the right sort of fellow to play the
r6le of informer-general.
Colonel Maunsell, the Port Macquarie
Stipendiary, does not think the Public Instruction
Act was intended to apply to aboriginals! And
yet Parkes used to go in a perisher about its going
to be a solvent of creed and caste and race. The
gallant Maunsell evidently doesn’t believe in the
blackfellow being a man and a brother. We think
Cohen should caution Maunsell against permitting
silly prejudice to Interfere with a reasonable inter-
pretation ef a law that makes no sort of distinc-
tion between blacks and whites.
The Hon. A. Evelyn Ashley, Political Sec-
retary to the Colonial Office, has expressed his
conviction that it will ultimately become necessary
that the Australian colonies should bo admitted to
representation in the House of Commons.” Bah!
For the Australian colonies to be represented in
the British Commons simply means the handing
over of Australian destinies to an Assembly that
would invariably treat colonists as provincials, and
would subordinate colonial to what would bo called
“imperial,” but which iu reality would be English
interests. Why should we, who have our own
establishment, give it up, in order to go and Jive
again with mamma, who is very selllsh, very exi-
geant, and as meddlesome as an old magpie ?
Sometime in January “T.S.” inaletterto
theMuDGEK Independent, made certain strictures
on the interior economy and discipline of Wei
lington Gaol, » hereupon Comptroller Maclean
asked the Visiting Justice of the said gaol to
favour him with information on the allegations of
“ T.S.” Thisthe Visiting Justice briefly did, accom-
panying his own memo, (which characterised the
statements as malicious) with a long report from
the Acting-Gaoler, who of course categor cally de-
nied " T.S.’s ” strictures with official indignation.
Even presuming "T.S.'s ” letter was the outcome
of malice, could the Maclean have possibly taken
a less likely way of finding out the rights of it
than the old foolish routine plan ho apopted ?
J. Pope Hennessy, who is now ruling at
Mauritius, has mortally offended Mr. Antelme, the
senior unofficial member of his Legislative Council,
bv asserting that the Legislature had passed Draco-
nian laws against the Indian section of the people
and that legislators only advocate their personal
interests. Hennessy, who has always been in hot
water since he first “ ratted ” for place, has been
right in most of his recent contentions. We must
gay that for him. It is lucky for the masses in
Mauritius that the Governor takes their part
against the crass selfishness of the narrow pluto-
cracy that seeks to boss things in perpetuity.
When it is remembered that the twelve unofficial
members of the Council are returned by the landed
proprietors, it will be seen that Hennessy is ham-
pered pretty much as was Gipps by the N.S.W.
landed monopolists in ’38-’I6.
How characteristic of the policy of the
corner of Pitt and Hunter streets it was of the
Echo to tell Hammond, the new member for
Canterbury, “ that every question has more sides
than one, and the larger the question and the more
it is studied’ the more sides it is found to have,”
just as though it would say: You’ve been an out-
spoken man, Mark Hammond, but now you
mustn't emphatically state your views on any
subject you have at heart. State them ? Ye-e-esI
But emphatically? No-o-o. Wo (like the Very
Kev. the Dean of Cloisterham) think not. What a
power that corner of the above mentioned streets
might be if it were only to cease subordinating
statement of any kind approaching the emphatic
to groping round aud round and round a question,
trying to count the exact number of its sides, and
scheming how beat to avoid direct contact with
any of them I
In the Assembly, last week, Mr. Secretary
Wright said that ticket ofiices at suburban stations,
according to the rule laid down, should be opened
for the sale of tickets twenty minutes before the
arrival of each train. According to the rule, yes.
According to the custom, very much no; though
we don’* - doubt for a minute that, were the ques-
tion to bo olficially investigated, the result would
be the promulgation of the interesting news (yes
— news is the word) that the rule is observed with
rigorous fidelity. With reference to the statement
recently made in Parliament, virtually charging
the Minister of Public Works with giving to the
firm of Wright, Hfaton, and Co. exceptional ad-
vantages in connection with station accommoda-
tion, Granny understands ‘‘that inquiries have
been made which show that in no case is any
privilege allowed to that firm which is not con-
ceded to the public generally. More than one
general order has been promulgated, at Mr.
Wright’s instance, prohibiting the practice of
allowing agents or others to make use of the rail-
way premises for sto T ago purposes, and directing
the enforcement of demurrage or storage in all
cases when goods are not removed within 31 hours
after arrival, and this regulation has been rigidly
enforced.” Do we doubt this? Devil a bit; only
it would be a thundering lot more satisfactory
were the officials of an impeached department not
employed as the agents to investigate the charge.
Escott in his monograph on the late
Abraham Hayward relates the following anecdote
to show the quality of the political influence exer-
cis d by the subject of the memoir and also the
degree of politic*! authority he occasionally used:
—“ In 1861 Palmerston and Russell were both bent
on going to war for Denmark. The newspapers
applauded their resolution. It gradually became
known that some of their colleagues in the Cab-
inet dissented from this view, and that It was
thoroughly unpopular with the rank and file of
the Liberal party. When the tide of popular feel-
ing was decisively sotting against the war policy,
inside and outside the House of Commons, Hay-
ward called at Cambridge House. After some con-
versation with Lady Palmerston, to whom he
represented the realities of the position. Lord
Palmerston entered, fresh from a Cabinet, looking
unusually tired, and Hayward left. He had
scarcely descended the stairs when Palmerston
came out of the room, and, leaning over the banis-
ters, exclaimed, ‘ Hayward, Hayward, come
back I ’ The summons was obeyed, and the Minis-
ter at once asked what all this meant? Palmerston
was nettled, and with some impatience proceeded
to demonstrate the unreasonableness of the antag-
onism to his own and Bussell’s policy. Hayward,
in his turn, was put upon his mettle, justified his
opinion by explaining the structure of the political
groups which were forming against the war, said
‘ Ask Brand,’ and roundly told him that unless he
executed a change of front ho would be out in a
week. Palmerston rejoined: ‘I ought to have
been told of all this.’ Oh the following Monday,
Palmerston wont down to the House of Commons
and announced the right about face.”
The vacancy created by the resignation of
Mr Henry Bolton, the senior member for Moira
(Vic.), has brought out a trio of budding politi-
cians, who are willing to sacrifice themselves on
the altar of their country for £30J a year—and
chances. The first in the field is Graham, a farmer,
who resides in the neighbourhood of Wunghnu, a
local man, whose exalted position as past-presi-
dent of the Shepparton Shire Council, brought him
prominently into notice in that district. He had a
run for the Moira Stakes at the last general elec-
tion, but was beaten on the post, or pole, or some-
thing, by Bolton. He is considered to be first
favourite now. The honest farmers swear by him,
the chances are that they’ll swear at him if he gets
in. We think that Mr. Graham would make a very
good—farmer, indeed, James M’Lean, cx-Crown
Lands bailiff, has entered for a maiden race. Mac.
has had hard luck of it for some time. He was
sent to the Wlmmera district in the good old days
of dummyism, at the time when Sam Wilson, of
Longernong (now Sir Samuel, of Hughenden,
England) used to marshall bis dummies and collar
section after section of the rich lands of the
Wimmera, at the local land-boards, when the
myrmidons of Nicholl and Avrey sallied forth
from Warranooke like the Israelites of old
to possess themselves of the land. Then it was
that McLean put his foot in it, so to speak, by ex-
posing the nice little games of those highly
respectable landsharks, and giving the selectors a
fair show. At the instigation of those in authority
he was shifted out of the district, and during the
last 10 years has been hustled about from post to
pillar, until finally he left the department disgusted
with the treatment that he received. His case is
one which aptly illustrates what may happen to a
man who does his duty as a public officer fearlessly
and conscientiously. Well, Mac. is making a dash
for parliament, and should he get in he will make
things pretty lively for some of his old friends.
The third candidate for the confidence of his fel-
low men is Mr. D. O'Leary, of Benalla. O'Leary
is a barrister, practising in the district, a rollicking
divil-may-care, happy-go-lucky kind of fellow
who has already made a couple of unsuccessful
attempts to oust Graves from the adjoining
electorate of Delatite. It is supposed that 0‘L
will get the “ boys” to give him the Catholic vote,
a considerable item in that electorate, but, the
election will be over before this thing sees the
light.
After “making his marbles right” in
Brisbane, Mr. Henry Bolton, who has been one of
the representatives of the electorate of Moira,
during the last seven years, has seen fit to send In
his resignation to the Speaker of the Victorian
Legislative Assembly. Prior to his entering the
political arena, Bolton ran a brewery at Seymour,
where he had a kind of preliminary training in the
local shire council, and, by means of the Catholic
vote, a judicious style of trimming his sails to suit
the political breezes, and the all-powerful influence
of beer, he managed to oust old Pat Hanna (now
M.L.C.) in 1817, under the skilful piletage of Mr. H.
Macklnnon, a gentleman not altogether unknown
in Melbourne literary circles. During his seven
years of political life, Bolton did not once set the
sweet-smelling Yarra on Are with his elo-
quence, neither did his genius as a statesman
earn for him the distinction of having his
name emblazoned on the scroll of fame;
but his caution and astuteness stood him in
good part, which, together with ,a lucky turn of
fortune’s wheel, enabled him to become a Cabinet
Minister. When there was a slaughter of innocents
amongst the Irish Brigade, and the impetuous
Longmore, the great O’Callaghan, and several
other “ paythriots,” lost their seats at the last
f eneral election in Victoria, through signing the
amous Grattan address, Bolton (whose heart was
‘wid the cause of ould Ireland,” but, like the
f)olicemen In the “ Pirates of Penzance,” “ his feel-
ngs he with difficulty smothered,’’) kept judici*
ously in the background; and when he had to face,,
the farmers of Moira for re-election, was able to
“ bob up serenely ” and meet the music with
the sweet confidence that is born of holding
the two bowers and the ace of tramps for
a Dutchman’s point at euchre. His inclusion
in the scratch team which formed the late
0‘Loghlen Cabinet was a surprise to many if not
to Bolton himself, and his career as Postmaster-
General was not remarkable by anything above
mediocrity. He then parted with his interest in
the Seymour brewery, and enjoyed the fruits of
office until Berry and Service burled the hatchet,
coalesced and packed the burly Knight of Clare
and his seedy following Into the cool shades of
opposition. Then it was that Bolton’s Interest in
Victorian politics began to wane, and leaving his
confiding constituents to mourn his personal loss,
he sought fresh fields for his genius in Bananaland.
But though absent in body he was present in
spirit and drew his “ screw ” the utmost
punctuality. The grain growers of Moira then
began to grow discontented, and clamoured for
Bolton’s head or his resignation, but he affected
not to hear their murmurings until he had
matters fixed up to suit him in the other colony.
He was not going to throw away the dirty water
until he got the clean, and going on the principle
“ that God is good, and the devil isn't so bad
either,” he held on to his £300 a year until, as the
telegrams inform us, he entered into the brewing
business in Brisbane. Then he sent in his resigna-
tion, which was hailed with delight by the electors
of Moira, and the electorate is now in the throes of
a fierce contest for the honour of representation
and—£300 a year.
• • •
House of Commons refused to amend the
Government Cattle Diseases Bill as sent down to
thorn by the Lords—The London Standard (of
Toryism) says that on the whole Henry George’s
visit to England is not likely to be attended by ill
consequences. So say we, but in a very different
sense, and judging the man by a very different
standard Hely-Hutchlnson appointed Lieute-
nant-Governor of Malta.
“ Well, what's the price now, old Typhoid Fever ?”
“Same’s usual. Hevn’t made no advance.”
“Advance be hanged. Hasn’t the rain filled your tanks?”


w
AND CO, (Limited).
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED).
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NETT
SOUTH WALES.;
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Agents in Victoria and South Australia;
WM. M CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
%ST Agencies in all parts of the world.
Champagne
Heidsleck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMtJEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsleck & Go., Reims.
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TAtTERS ALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Dally, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Li Very; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carraiges.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
3T
BULL-DOG ALB.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
traders who for the sake of au extra
profit " r present the common beers referred to
to BULL-DOG. CATTBLL
Newcastle Agents i WOOD
as eqtittl In quality
& CO., Agents.
BROTHER* k C9,
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ya in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
earthenware,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edlnbmgn Pale Ao.
Foster 's Bugle Brand.
/
/
Jl
*3
w
m
£"- :
m
EASY TERMS SYSTEM 5? INSTRUMENT.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
IK*
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
Ba88 PALE ALE.
OS8GkA-iTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
Vi Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
If. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
I, mum, ill BMW HITS,
397 GEORGE STREET,
68 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENG LAN 0.
IMPORTERS OP
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
The BEST ALB and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE i
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best knovm remedy for RHEUMATISM,
RALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC IE
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALD 3, & c ~ and
Mken internally cures DIARRHCEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other iutLms aches
uid pains. .
Price, 2/- Sold Every where*
C. Ei MOULTON, sole PROfrurOR,
MELBOURNE VAISTI3 .o'., DNET
PAINT
d
Mar
BOAR S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brana
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
oftnnot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
CATTKLL & CO.. Sole Agents.
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
RBQISTERBP
A SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By Its tonic
and soothing effects It at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By Its richness In phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 25s. a case.
Sold everywhere. Sole Proprietors, MARSHALL
BROTHERS. M.P.B., Pharmacists. 104 and 10fl
Market-street, near Hvrte Park. Svdnev. N.R.—
Ail Imitations Illegal. TAKE NO 8VB8TITUT»«
Mtiwtmmm
Robey'S celebrated Portable Wind-
tag- and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
■^SSSdsEa
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
® &w Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers,
tt &Kes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Mach
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Loach Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
“tye Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugav
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery*
Books, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest Improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
Briscoe, drtsdalb and co..
887 Georgs Street, Sydney.


I ersons wnose avocations arc sedentary
and coniine them indoors, are especially in need of
some wholesome stimulant; we therefore con-
fidently olfor them that world-renowned tonic,
Wolfes Schnapps.
Bat and Live. —If your stomach craves for
a pleasant bitter to sharpen the keen edge of
appetite, ask your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic
JNervme, the Great Nerve Tonic. Take no sub-
stitute. Wholesale at the principal patent medi-
cine warehouses, and the proprietors, Marshall
Brothers M.P.S , 101 and 106, Market-st., Sydney.
Mr. DeCouroy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adv ser and Mining Titles.
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.— Advt.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOEEHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “ Arnold s''
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Hags, Hibbone, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown. Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Bach package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d. per
package. Send 3d. stamp to Box 181. G.P.O.,
Sydney, and yon will receive a Sample Card or
colours, &c., &e, by return post.
The Little Plate.
Listen! The corner stone of a new church
was laid up South a week or two ago. This was
what the officiating clergyman said at the time : —
It was the ordinary custom to put coins in the
bottle on such an occasion, but it had been
thought better to keep them for the plate.” Of
course—but perhaps you will like it better in
rhyme—
O, shepherds, while you have the lambs,
Be sure to shear the wool,
Nor for salvation care two
As long’s the plate is full.
No matter what your sermons be,
No matter what ye prate.
But clutch the opportunity
And fill your little plate!
What, bury money I This would be
In lunacy to launch—
Good money that with luxury
Would line your blessed paunch !
Tush I let men talk of temperance ;
We want to see, we do,
The men who, If they had the chance,
Would not do just as you!
At the same time, we can’t help thinking that one
reason why the minister objected to putting the
coin under the stone was that he suspected some
of the elders of a design to come and dig It up in
the night.
The sporting folk of Charleville, Queens-
land, purpose Introducing a novel event into their
annual meet in June next. In it, light weights
will be eschewed, each hor«e having to carry list.;
distance one mile. The riders may bring up any
they fancy, none of which are to declare as regards
names or performances. Twenty-six have entered,
the sweep being £10 each, so that the stakes will
foot up to atidy sum.
“Milton and Shake-
speare belonged to the
colonies as much as to
Great Britain, and we
might say the same even
of Robbie Burns. Hebc-
llevedthe light of the
past ages had rolled upon
them from England to
guide them.” Thus our
own ’Enry to the Glasgow
Chamber of Commerce,
and the first thing that
strikes us, as usual, Is
his modesty and his elo-
quence. For Instance,
his dragging in Milton
and Shakespeare, and
saying nothing of his own
brilliant muse or the
stately prose of his pub-
lished speeches, strikes us
as overdoing It. And yet
he must have been con-
scious all ths time that,
apart from the almost
idolatrous admiration the
Australians have for him
and his works in the pre-
sent, it is as nothing to
what posterity will think
of him long after the
othertwo bards, whonow
share thoglory with him,
have gone into obli-
vion. Which of them,
for instance, ever carried
a figure of speech equal
to the “ light of past
ages had rolled upon
them?” ®e did not
think the English lan-
guage could come to
that; but we are not
above learning, and by
way of testing ouiselves,
we just observe that we
should have written that
sentiment this way, “The
light of past ages naving
packed up the carpet bag
of lore, and donned the
ploughshare of illumina-
tion, darted like the anvil
eagle through the lurid
murk of supervening
centuries, and with pro-
phetic ankles, trod the
pathless zones of medi-
aeval darkness only to
espy far off in tho South-
ern seas an empire moul-
ting its youthful feder-
ations on the nest of
abundant feasabllity, and
Crowning the mighty edi-
fice with the epigram-
matic thunders that
tinkle from the chorus
of a Hamlet, a Paradise
Lost, and a Murmur of
tho Stream."
“ Yidi ” has been
writing to G nanny tell-
ing her In what ways ho
thinks Sydney deficient
by comparison with old
country and foreign
cities he has just returned
from visiting. Some of
his remarks are good,
though most of them are
of the nature of bald
truisms. It is surprising,
though, that ho does not.
tell Gkanny that Syd-
ney’s chiefest deficiency
is an outspoken daily
Liberal paper.
We to talk of teaching the old country!
Listen to this, for an advertisement from the
London Times: “A high-born lady seeks a home
in a nobleman’s family. She will do anything, but
must be entirely treated as a friend. No salary.”
After this, what poor things are the advertise-
ments tvhich we used to think so clever and insinu-
ating—the proffers of service as “lady helps,”
“ governesses,” “ companions,” and such ! No
salary, mind you. But we suoposi she Is to«.>
high-born a lady to refuse a few trilling presents—
a diamond necklace, emerald bracelet, or any little
1 nexpensi vo thing of that sort. And we also suppose
she would not expect to bo asked to blackload the
grate in return for thesejtokenslof esteem. No,
hardly. We are a cynical lot, we are.
Prom our Fatherland comes a sad, sad
song, to-day. The Anglo-Saxon race is deterior-
ating fast, and men cannot drink one quarter as
much now as they could in the good old days of
yore. Pitt could wrap himself round his throe or
four bottles comfortably, and then troop round to
the House and astonish the world with his elo-
quence; but, now-a-days, if a senator only smells
the cork of a whisky bottle he goes to sleep, or
dances madly round and wants to chaw the
Speaker's ears off. Dundas drank seven bottles at
one sitting, and the Duke of Rutland went up to
Heaven in a fiery chariot (It is presumed) after
drinking one whole night, and afterwards sur-
rounding seven turkey’s eggs for breakfast And
on another festive occasion the Duke of Richmond,
then Lord Lieutenant, was dining with Mr. Sneyd,
the great wine merchant, when Mr. Sneyd drank
nine bottles of claret, and then, dropping under
the table, he placed his head In the fire-place and
■aid he was a man of simple tastes, and never
cared for fancy bed-clothes. The good old man
was picked up, however, by a friend, wb# rather
smartly remarked, as ho propped the man of wine
against the wall, “ I believe this is the first instance
on record of a Protestant Lord Lieutenant being
present at the elevation of the host.” These were
the good old rouseabout times, when Good Tem-
plars were flayed alive, and the man who passed
the bottle untouched was branded as a traitor.
THE LAST DAYS OF KING
SOLOMON.
Herr Lasker, deceased, used to tell a story.
We don’t know but that he told more than one.
He was the leader of the Liberal party in Ger-
many, and used to say that he would like to see a
wise king, just to feel for once what loyalty to the
throne memt; and, like a lot of other seers, he
died without the sight. When he first wont into
the German Reichstag, he used to say these things
aloud ; later on, he would say them amongst
scholars; and, one night, over some lager, he ven-
tured something like this:—“I wonder, now, if
Schllemann, when he is done with his excavations
in Troy, and when that fellow Smith of the British
Museum has done with his Moabitish stone, and
my old schoolfellow Tischendorf has finally had
his say about the manuscripts he found near Mt.
Sinai, I wonder whether any of them will pick up
some sort of an old Babylonish Radical, and trans-
late him for us ? Fancy Tisch getting hold of some
Count de Graramont-notions concerning Solomon,
for instance.” He didn’t stop at that, but, in his
later days, maintained that such a manuscript b d
actually been discovered. It was a favourite
notion of his that, when a wise king arrived on
this ear’h, It would not be one who would pat the
nation on tho back, nor lead his people to war, nor
encourage the arts, but he would do the greatest
deed ever ascribed to a king—ho would do nothing.
Said Lasker: “I attended the last meeting of the
Society for Deciphering Ancient Inscriptions.
Meissnich. who has just returned from Persia, read
a translation of a curious old manuscript he had
found at Ispahan In some new excavations. It was
written by an old boon companion of Solomon,
who had been banished the court for saying his
soul was his own.”
Cutting it short, the writer had gone
with the King into hard d issipation, and had to 11 y to
Persia and support himself as best he could until
the rage of his majesty blew over. Schliemann
would net publish a translation of it, because he
said it smacked of foolishness. Foolish or not, the
words of a true man are always valuable, whether
they are In good oopper-plate or in old Chaldee.
I he name the old chronicler gives is Nabonassor. He
starts about the time of his banishment, and, no
doubt, had reasons for burying hia MSS In Ispahan.
maintained
myself by teaching the pianoand the big drum, by
writing lies for the religious press, and by training
a boy to speak the truth, with a view to making
him a politician, and taking him around for a show.
u^ a «i a ? n, f me engaged as a chairman on a
Royal Commission appointed by the Premier to
make an exhaustive enquiry as to what wo were
appointed lor; and I received a pension when I
reported that it was to lecommend being ap-
again, to enquire whether it was worth
In? n n a, en()u f This, and my ignorance of law’
distinctly marked me out for the Supreme Court
Bench, on the occasion of a great libel case. No-
body that noted the learning expressed in the wag
of ray wig when [ gave my decision that day will
ev .®f forget it—bar the defendants. I afterwards
settled down to ’know’ still lees of law, and,
finally, retired with a pension.”
• * *
“Solomon was ‘slightly touched’ when I
returned, by permission, to tho Court. He had
learned ro much that he wanted to learn ignor-
ance, ‘Nab, old boy,’ were hie words, ‘all is
vanity and vexation of spirit. Man must not seek
pleasure; he must seek misery. Tho chief use of
life is to torture yourself. I am the wisest man in
the world, and 1 ought to know.’ ‘You certainly
have known pleasure.’ I replied; ‘What do you
propose to do? * in the first place, I am going to
marry another t housand wives. I want more worry
I am going to wear this crown because it is the
heaviest and most inconvenient form of nightcap-
and Ira notlgolng to abdicate, because I should
lose the weight of responsibility and the fear of
dynamite. Come and see my hut. ‘ He then put
on a pair of very tight bluchers, because he had
bunions, and, drinking a bottle of ink, set out
across the lucerne paddock, where the ensilage
was being thrown in by a body of Irishmen who
had come over at Dan O’Connor’s suggestion to
see justice done to Ireland and to enjoy a little
Home Rule. A little distance off was Nebuchad-
nezzer, hobbled, and up to his ears in clover. As
he appeared in good condition, I got a wad of straw,
gave him a rub down, and took him a good strong
gallop three times round,he finishing puffy bu t blas-
pheming. He said he didn’t mind the cold nights
now his coat was thick, but his hind hoofs were
too long, having to use the whole length from
knee to toe. He also complained of latnpas, and
the want of a tail to keep off Hies; but, on the
whole, he was quite satisfied where he war. The
road outside was rough-metalled, and Solomon got
out into the middle of it; but as I had Neb. sad-
dled, I put him at the chock-and-log fence that
encloses the royal gardens, and rode after, bribing
him with a quid of tobacco and exacting his word
of honour to canter back home when I bad done
with him. I never saw a king so sat upon."
• • •
i
" “‘Take a skull and sit down,’ said the king,
jamming his crown tighter down so as to bruise
both ears in a tender place, and sitting down in a
damp spot where tho rain drippled down his neck
and where tho draught was strongest. lobeyed
my king, as in duty bound, selecting that of a
Flat-head Indian as being broadest, whilst
Solomon took that of a Nihilist, for he, being
a prophet, instinctively knew that that was The
most uncomfortable and rough tor monarchs,
•Yes,’ he resumed meditatively. ‘Give me a
Nihilist; and, now,’ he continued, still more
solemnly, ‘let us meditate in this noisome den
and in this invigorating draught, concerning
hunger, and death, and bones, and pain, and the
vanity of women, wine, and music. Let us
reflect upon corruption and worms, and the
torments of hell. Let us call to mind disease and
bereavement, and McElhono’s sentiments concern-
ing Handsaker ; let us get toothache, and typhoid,
and dunning creditors ; and let us pray fully re-
fleet on treachery, on meanness, on A. G. Taylor’s
suspension for patriotism, even on newsnaner
poetry. By the eye of fkith. I see wars and de-
vastations. and widows’ tears, and abject poverty,
Hnd Vsno Hnwnlf raging savages, and massacres ;
and 1 see down the long vista ot time, John Davies
trying to biush and John Lucas trying tocry.-
1Q tact, conducive to the misery I
seek. But my greatest misery, and that which I
hope is stil in reserve for me. is the dread that
there won’t bo enough of it. I am a perfect
glutton for It. Bead me, I pray thee, a S. M.
Hekaui leader, while I bang my head asrainst
this spike on tho wall ; and then wo will sally back
through tho market place to the throne, and I will
8 J?°T- t. 11 ® 6 what has been, and what shall be ’
Declining an offer of a pair of spiked shoes, and
a copy ot his later proverbs, I placed the old man’s
tottoring^forth!* UP ° Q my Sh ° Ulder iind Ied
“ Our course lay through the next pacl-
dock, where I observed Nebuchadnezzar jostling
with some cattle for a lick of rock salt in the
r & wo ™? n- * Poor Lottie,’ he muttered,
K Pray t , h ? e ; somewhat concerning her.
I (Kunpfied eaved friends may add to their misery,’
“ ‘ Dearest Lottie how we miss thee.
Once wo licked thee with a stick,
thou art gone; no more we kiss thee.
Set up here lor kings to lick.’
+v?if S t M JW/ here became so abjectly miserable
that 1 could not go on, and we continued our
journey. On the way we passed Samson, who was
entertaining a crowd by pulling out the granite
of the Post Ollice, and tossing tho caber
’ w ® P. asaed a stall, around which an
eager group of Jaw students were listening with
profound attention to a serpent with a wig on, and
rairt% 0 ninmn r n *. refert0 - ‘ Thou hearest,’
“ a ‘? that strange voice at the further
t { le market? Proved we thither,’ and
Ir,i° ner j OWS °f the profuundest lepers,
palsmd men. and most painful distortions, which
the King now delighted to gather round him, wo
hurried on to where avast crowd were assembled
cheering and boohooing by turns. But the orator
evidently carried the meeting with him.
bought him from Balaam,’ said the king, ‘and have
set him up hero that my people may receive their
politics at first hand.’ He was standing on his
hind legs on a stump, and never can I express mv
admiration ot his statesman-like utterances on
Federation, Annexation, Free Trade and Protect
tion. 1 sketch his profile roughly. (We give it at
the head of the column—“Political Points’’
Ed.B )
♦ ■ •
“I hasten to the end of my chronicle. We
wandered together to scenes of squalor, and w«
talked over all the evil that was done under
the sun, and then the King suffered a relapse
He had worked himself up to such a pitch
of misery that he grew satisfied, and even
pleased, and, finally, when I arose in the morn
ning, 1 found him once more In all h’s glorv*
It was a new glory. The glory of riot and dissina'
tion had passed away, and he desired now to be
the wisest of Kings, as he was already the wisest of
men. ‘Go to, Rab,’ he said, ‘let us even go into
the bye-ways and the slums; let us go down this
time and see what my people mean by clamouring
for corn and oil, and why they are troubled
withal for lack of lodgings, and lot us work dav
and night that they may be fed and clothed. Let
ns abandon the pomps of a vain show, and let tho
King show himself a leader of his people.’ And I
said, ‘Prithee, look graciously on thy servant
while I show thee a more excellent way. Let f
pray thee, a Royal Commission be appointed ’
(The King here nodded to Nehemiah, ‘Fill these
glasses again—the old Naboth cellar. Nab, my boy
See how it sparkles.’) ‘ Why so,’ said the King
‘ Pot your name on it, and you needn’t do anyl
tiling. Inaction becomes a wise King, they say m
Persia.’ ‘But,’ roared the King, ‘I am not the
Prince of Wa 1’”
0 0 0
Poor old Larker used to break off here.
The death of Floto w
the younger brother of
the famous composer of
the opera “Martha.” was
a very tragic one. l u
consequence of a wild
practical joke played by
him, he was challenged
out by a certain Count,
one of the Mechlenburg
deputies. Young Plotow
pioposed to settle the
matter by playing a game
of ecarte, the loser to
blow out his brains with-
in twenty-four hours.
Plotow lost, and precisely
at the expiration of the
allotted time pistolled
himself.
The Scribners have
just published a cheap
English translation of
Max O’Rell’s celebrated
work—“ John Bull et Son
Isle,” — a book which
abounds in passages of
the keenest, and justlr
deserved satire. M. O'Heil
has lived for many years
in London, and beirg
neither an unglo-phobist
nor angle - maniac, he
therefore tells a plain,
unvarnished tale of mat-
ters which came under
his own personal obser-
vation. Speaking of Eng-
land’s land-grabbing pro-
pensities, Max says
John Bull is a large land-
owner with muscular
arms, long, broad, flat
and heavy feet, and an
iron jaw that holds fast
whatever It seizes upon.
His estate, which he adds
a little piece to day by
day, consists of the Brit-
ish Islands, to which he
has given the name of
United Kingdom, to
make folks believe that
Ireland is attached to
him ; the Channel Is-
lands; the fortress of Gib-
raltar which enables him
to pass comfortably
through the narrowest
ot straits, and the islands
of Malta and Cyprus that
serve him as advanced
sentinels in the Mediter-
ranean. He has also
knocked down to himself
the Kingdom of Heaven
—in his eyes as incontes-
tably a British possession
as India or Australia.”
That last remark hits off
England’s self-compla-
cent assurance to a ty-ty.
Mr. O'Rell’s description
of the fewer classes in
England, their treatment
of women, their brutal
pleasures, etc., is graphic
in the extreme, and yet
there is little, if anything,
told maliciously. As tho
Montaigne quotation on
the title-page truly says,
“ You have here, reader,
a book written in good
faith.” And a sultry
book for “ perfidious
Albion” it is, too.
Deliver Us From Our Friends—Sitting Up With a Sick Man.
The Talking Friend—Determined to Take Your Mind
Off Your Pain.
The Sleepy Friend—Who Sleeps Bren When On Fire.
The Hungry Friend—Who Eats Up all the Good
Things, so that they Won’t Hurt You.
The Dismal Friend—Who Reads to Dlslract \our
Thoughts—Reads Funeral Koikes and Death Scenes.


THE
GNO
nPlsaa.©.
r?
THE
PIAMO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
THE
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves In compass, In beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano In Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS I
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY 1
PERFECTION OP TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF 1
THE
"Wilmer
PZ^llTO
Illustrated catalogues of the “ MIGNON,”
“ WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON AND GO.,
325 George-strect,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
W“TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only award*)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Kitles, Revolvers. &c. All goods will bo faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
® eivr ed. All work and repairs executed equal to
ar te European workmanship,
t. N -«-—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
dom, of Brescia, Italy.
i
m
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often hut the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its etBcacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken In all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“ In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs, I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. I tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 02 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fair nuoTHEB.”
Rockingham, Vt,, July 16,1882.
6 Croup.—A Mother’s Tribute.
“While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crake.”
Lake Crystal, Minn,, March 13, 1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Waldek.”
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, believing as t do that
but for its use I should longsince have died
from lung troubles. K. Braodok.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cheery Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
PREPARED BY <r
Dr. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
, Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters oi a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, in
secure cover, for Is. 6d., money order or N.8.W.
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MBS. BEARCROFT.
Box 740 6.P.O., Sydney.
BLEND
[Trade]
JMAFUp
Al
C 0L H? BLEND WHISKY.—This Is a BLEN
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, con
oming fulness of body, with piquancy and delioae
Agents® flavour * CATTELL & CO., So]
JAMES MACGREGOR.
t&~ 308 GEORGE STREET. 7
Scold,
WHOLESALE
GEOCBB
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
• MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
otFORE A10U37ACES and WH1CEE2C. «eron* aptei.
Boyd's Beard F.Hxirdid this, and
| trill do it on cither bald head or
bare face. Forces heavy i/oug .
tache in fronts to 4 weeks and never .
‘ 20,000 young men already
- - - - toear full beards, having need I to
3 k n , . in J ur V, easily applied, tertain in effect, racket s 1«. M.
M P“M ; 8ent Under cover, free from observation.
Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, O.F.O., Sydney,N B*W»
Copyrighted.
Copyrighted,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
Bavarian
Sop Bitters
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
. „„„ USE MO OTHER.
A PERFECTLY PURE STIMULANT.
CURE FOR INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND LIVER COMPLAINTS.
’ READ
MEDICAL TESTIMONY AND
ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
THE ONLY
HOP BITTERS THE DOCTORS
Ri-COMMEND.
TO BE HAD OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND GROCERS,
Ti E £i A ? D i 8 xu SH0ET HORN BOURBON .-The
of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
gentlemen; will soon be the leading
Australia; It has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
ROBERT BUTCHER & CO.
(Late William Long 1 ),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
E T R 0 P 0 LI T A N ART UNION.
To be disposed of by subscription on the Art
Union principle, by permission of the Hon. the
Attorn ey- G eneral,
£5250 WORTH OF PICTURES, £5250
. . In 5000 Shares of £1 Is. each,
comprising Landscapes and Portraits by the best
European and Colonial Artists.
. . Committee:
Augustus Morris, Esq. I R. w. Robertson, Esq.
B. H. C. Bristowe, Esq. | W. T. Bennett, Esq.
J. A. Parker, Esq.
l8t ?4? e ’o ™' u ? d afc f 10( » : 2nd Prize, valued at
3 rd Pnze, valued at £500; 20 Prizes at£25
each, £500; 50 Prizes at £10 each, £500 : 400
Prizes at £o each, £2000 - £5260.
The drawing will take place on MONDAY, 26th
■ ay 2 underthe directions of a committee to be
t he .subscribers Purchasers will be
found for all prizes over £10, at a commission of
10 per cent., should the winner prefer selling.
Pictures wili be exhibited for a fortnight before
the drawing, notice of which will be duly advei
tised. Winning numbers will appear in all the
leading papers. Applications for tickets to be
nndersigned to Box 606, G.P.O. ; or
105 Pitt street, Sydney.
W. T. BENNETT, I ™
J. A. PARKER, ’[Treasurers.
>7
AND
T5
m
ALL
CHEST AFFFCTIDWS
Prepared only sv
Thomas Ingham
m
HOT WATER BATHS
H/\IR ESTABLISHMENT
157, 139 A 141 0XF0 1 RD\5 T .
HALF HOL/oh YFiss/t Y THUFISDAy
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warran ted f i rst q u a I i ty
' Cna rges strictly modera te.
MARSHALL BROTHERS
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
cimed on by the aid of a largo and complete stock
anaesthetics. apparatus * Painless extraction^
LLAS
Jft/iBR
RE-COVERED
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourU mbreUa Framet
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and male
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Ste.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Reivalr. nnatlv OTP.
on tod
BHfl
SHB
Bavarian
Hop Bitters
PAPERBANGING S!
with
DADOES. BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NUESERi TV .-ER8,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, Aq.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
S81 GEORGS STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ A DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White load. Oils, Paints, Colours. Yar,
nlshee, Brushes, Gold Leaf, Ac.
ALCOCK&CO.'S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES
I
SOLE AGENTS:
376 Georga-st., Sydney.
PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED,
mi
COMFORTABLE TEETH
y Be thlfl valuable mouth wash insurer
fifith 6 f ™f dom fr om toothache and decay of Cm
yfihnw here are * h *kinds, dlstlng'uished by a
yellow. Green, and Red Silk Threadattached to
the mrui wi , T^a f w ith the Fellow stops instantly
s h K aW toothache That wit'h the Green
valuable to persons who suffer periodically
toothache, sensitiveness of tlmteeth and
f offensive breath, for by Using 1 a few
fhevViM water to rinse the mouth dailj%
they will not only never suiter again, but will nm!
S e *? 6 u sound and white to the end. ih&t
with the Red is for children’s use. C
C“^SKi
DE
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate ™iiof <.
the worst attack of Asthma Cough TonchftlH
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at
S** r UK F ln St phle^m ’ aird short breath rtnd
t^ em invaluable, as they instantly check
spasm, promote sleep, andallow tn
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
t >S a aaai^* t fraudulent imitations,
co.. ° f " <"•<*
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
OlViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c. 9
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithine: Blacksmith;™
i lumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-httinir g
of every description. H
BOULTON'S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE.” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATEK-WASTE
S°/6 Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application. * *


BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARE
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED PROM
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Mediciries in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
* of all other bitters, being' the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
4 highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
* without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trilling cost.”
I
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. s
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHA
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment
543, late 531, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wiH suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am. Sir
Yourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, Ac.
PRICE 28. fid.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist,
43 ERSKINE STREET.
SoM Vr w W HOTTT.. and all Ohotnlata
Printed and Published by Thb Bulletin Mew
paper Cu. (Limited), 34 Pltt-8t„ Sydney, N.S.W,
SLAVES OF THE RING.
The recent fatal prize-fight, at Rand wick,
reminds us that we have in a pigeon-hole in our
desk a communication from a gentleman who at-
tended “ an affair ” between Harry and
Barton, the navvy, which transpired near Christ-
church, in New Zealand, over twenty years
ago. As in the case of the “mill” at Hand wick,
a good many people, who should have
been in bed at such an unseemly hour,
were there. Amongst them — at Kandwick we
mean —were a “ sargent” of police, a leading hotel
proprietor, several well-known journalists, a solic-
itor or two, and other people who are not
particular friends of ours. The correspondent
writes with such a vivid recollection of the
New Zealand affair, that now, considering
the interest taken in the recent “mill,” we are
constrained to add his contribution to the history
of “Fistiana.” Once or t.vice, when we were
young, and before we had learned anything about
piety, or that Legrand would beat Martini-Henry,
we attended a prize-fight, but we never had quite
such an experience as “Islander” who’s communi-
cation is appended. We don’t believe in prize-
fights, but there is always something morbidly
lurid about such affairs that renders a description
of them interesting. Our correspondent is ex-
ceedingly frank. This is the way he warbles
“’Tis some one and twenty years ago
that, rising from a game of Loo, in old John Bird-
seye’s sporting hostlery in Christ Church, N.Z.,
about five o’clock one winter morning, a discussion
arose as to the precise locale of the great mill to
come off that day between Barton, the Navvy,
and Jones, the Tasman Pug. The early appear-
ance of a well-known sport who had been chosen
Beferee, soon settled the matter as t» the neigh-
bourhood which the nrincipals and backers had
fixed upon, and which, barring the Interference
of the dreaded “ Blues,” would be the convincing
ground. A hasty toiler and a snack from a sjde
table, washed down uy British beer or Cock-tails,
according to taste, and an adjournment is made in
the mistv haze of that bitter cold morning to the
various livery stables. At Joe Page’s were already
some dozen men each lustily shouting for his par-
ticular prad, and a motley crew the dozen looked,
a large display on all sides of the rival colours, of
course. My own get-up on that memorable occasion
was quite els 7-igeur, consisting as it did of a very
wideawake hat, Box-cloth driving coat, with buck-
skins, water-tights and leggings (the latter articles
In preference to tops, as I might have occasi • n to
dismount) with the Pug’s colours, Zetland spots, In
numerous folds about my neck; and when mounted
on my thirteen two dun mare I rather fancied
I was the cheese. In passing, however, I must
not forget to notice the turn-out of a well-
known solicitor, who certainly knocked me,
In a costermonger’s fur cap, monkey jacket, oor-
deroy breeches, and high lows; and perched well
aft on poor old Sennacnerib (a moke known from
one end of Canterbury to the other), I think with
all respect for his most discerning parent, she would
not have known him.
♦ * •
“The dawning day in conjunction with
the flare of the oil lamps of the stable lent a some-
what haggard appearance to the little party
assembled, or possibly it might have been attribu-
table to the vigils they had been keeping. The
place which had been decided upon was among
some sand hills bn the bank of the Waimakarriri
Hiver, about twelve miles to the north of Christ-
church, and as our cavalcade proceeded (each man
duly equipped with well-filled saddle-horns) we
made a goodly show, and by the time we reached
the outskirts of the town, and were fairly on the
Papinui Road, we were continuously joined by
others, until we became so formidable a party
that the police would have been dull on the scent
Indeed if they had not snuffed blood, while our
strength seemed to deter interference from any-
thing less than a troop of cavalry. As we were now
ail fairly launched on what was to most of us a
novelty in the way of a day’s sport, we were soon
cheered by the combined effects of the rising sun
and a pull at the brandy flask. About an hours’
sharp ride, and straggling parties of horsemen are
seen in all directions, no one seeming to know,
exactly, where he is making for. At length a
lonely hut is descried, which, upon nearing, we
And surrounded by nearly a hundred saddle-horses.
Dismounting, and elbowing our way inside, we
find a large contingent of sports of all classes—
members of the Legislature, members of the Bar,
tradesmen, squatters, and black-legs. All sorts of
rumours are rife—“the Vandemonian has funked
It, and won’t show up’—‘the police are out, &o.,
&c.’ Rumour number one is an error, as in a few
minutes the Hope of Tasmania i* driven up by a
well-known squatter from the Ashburton Forks,
la a showy, open carriage, and a slashing team of
four greys. The * big ’un ’ is already on the
ground. Rumour number two soon proves itself
correct, as Mr. Inspector (who, some years
after, gave his name to the best represented
“ public ” street in the world, on the west coast of
the island) makes his abnoxious appearance with
about a dozen troopers. By this time, five or six
hundred horsemen have assembled, and a very
determined expression of opinion is gaining
ground that the combatants shall not be deterred.
• • •
“We find the ring pitched, and the
backers preparing to peel their men. Mr. Inspector
now rushes up in a deuce of a fury with his
squad, and, warning the men not to proceed,
declares his determination to prevent a breach of
the peace at all hazards. An attempt is made by
the horsemen to guard the ring, but the gentle-
men in blue coats and tin buttons are not to be
baulked. The stakes are pulled up, but not before
some hard blows have been exchanged between
the ringleaders and the “ blues.” A happy thought
now occurs, and, leaving the police in possession
of the ground on which the ring had been pitched,
a rapid move is made by the mob of horsemen.
The principals are hustled off, and before Mr.
Inspector can take in the situation, a compact ring
is made by some 500 horsemen which defies all the
attempts of the police to break through from the
outside. The stakes are once more driven in, the
ropes adjusted, and there stand Barton and Harry
Jones face to face in their 24-foot arena, while Mr.
Inspector and his subordinates make the best of
their case by ranging up their horses into good
positions to see the fun.
• • •
“ Both men peel well— Barton scaling, I
suppose, about list., and standing quite an inch
over 6ft., while Jones cannot be much over list.,
and only about5ft.9in. high. After preliminaries
the battle commences with a good deal of out-
fighting, In which Harry Jones shows himself much
the smarter and bebter-scienced man, followed by
pome pretty heavy exchanges, Burton generally
getting home about the ribs and body, while Jones
is punishing the ‘ blg-’un’s ’ face and draws first
blood. The rounds following quickly appeared to
be all about the same—much feinting and sparring
on Jones’ part, and a good deal of heavy but short
slogging .by Barton. About the seventh round,
however, the * big-un ’ sends Jones ‘ to grass ’ with
a sting on the ‘ mush.’ I was standing close to
Jones’ corner, and on his coming to I heard him
gasp to his picker-up (Bob Anderson), * Bob, that’s
cooked me—I’m done.’ The reply was emphatic,
if not parliamentary, but it certainly revived Mr.
Jones, as perhaps he thought it better to chance a
licking from Barton than make a certainty of one
from Bob. Anyway, when time was called, he
staggered in, and, sparring for wind, soon forced
the fighting, and with much s .ccess, planting
blow upon blow in every round in almost the
exact place; and before three-quarters of an
hour had expired the navvy's aft optic was almost
closed, while his forehead immediately over it had
a very ugly gash, and his remaining peeper was
giving evidence of following the fate of his left.
A circumstance I vividly remember was that the
plaster pateh which was put on the gash in
Barton’s forehead to stop the flow of blood com-
pletely blinding him, each time Jones dashed in his
left flew up in the air. The appearance of this six
feet of humanity was the most revolting spectacle
1 have ever seen, and, although twenty-one years
have passed since that winter-morning’s battle,
nothing would induce me to again attend any un-
gloved contest.
“ About an hour and ten minutes, and the
mill was over, and the sponge thrown up from
Barton’s corner. A subscription was made tor
him. and by four or five o’clock we were all back
in Christchurch, discussing this redoubtable in-
stance of British pluck. #
“The matter did not end here as the next
act was in the Police Court where the principals,
backers and Ringleaders were summoned and halt
the country side subpoenaed as Witnesses. When
it came for the Government to prosecute, a queer
thing happened. The Crown Prosecutor could
not undertake the job (I sat alongside him at the
fight), and it fell into the hands of a mighty tight-
laced gentleman of the bar, who launched out
most vehemently at these desperadoes, securing
good round sentences of imprisonment for some,
and fines for the less guilty. If I remember rightly,
the P.M, was the only occupier of the Bench on
that occasion, and it was argued that all the avail-
able great un-paid were disqualified, on account
of having’ been present at the ‘ mill ’ themselves.
As a final act in this great Drama, I regret to say,
that the hero, on liberation from durance vile,
took occasion to spend the proceeds of his victory
in liquor, and. Indulging too freely after his long
abstinence, paid a visit to the house of the lady he
had vowed to love and cherish, but from whom he
was separated by reason of their incompatability
of temper—and demolished her windows, for
which reprehensible act, he was once more sent to
limbo for a month or two.”
Our fashion figure shows an elegant peler-
ine made of fine cream lace. Four rows of
the lace, 3>£ inches in width, are joined so
that the fulness in each row is drawn in, as
required, along the shoulder. The neck-
opening, gathered slightly, is fastened on to a
silk band. Pink blush roses close the peler-
ine, which is taken over the shoulder, as seen.
This is an exact representation of one of the dresses worn at a fashionable Brighton
Ball. Peaked bodice, tablier and panel in ivory faille, tigured with oak leaves in ruby
velvet; Coquilles of Alentjon lace round the low bodice; oval train of ivory Ottoman
silk, bordered with a treble box pleating, which continues round the skirt in front;
scarf draperies in ivory crape; red camelias and velvet leaves.
