

m
dorsal 3?r o-vld.exs- Universal Providers,
EMP O^ZTTlivd:,
OF
In the Australian Colonies .
. ..... HORDERN AND SONS,
F-ACJE ERji s -.38iy?«1, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
’ » ’ - " —— -
S*** Novelties! Spring Novelties! The Opening of the Spring Trade.
W TA« Di*>Lr g\S #/»/Q E’noi'imnG snr* tfaf* HPP RfiHt SflP/fifl l
V fo', vclllts * ‘r 1 JS1 -> -
Sifa// Steamer. The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season.
I O*. a farming variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything fresh in Laces, Ribbons,
'*» j s ’ Wes, Collars, Flowers, Costumes, and Dress Materials, suitable for wear during the Spring months.
"'Jtly Wgnifl cent stock o| , I?umiture ot aU kinds, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, Window Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
° re< iuisit,e and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and substantially,
and we are this'season in a position to give BETTER VALUE THAN EVER !
A/w Our Only Address—
HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDER’S.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
‘Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “ VACUUM ” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
So/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Aw Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BOM ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 3 iacquarie Place, S^dae^.
Full particulars and price on application.
ROYAL HOTEL
BOURHE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western Tiistriet. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in the Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling'.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
H. L. SUMMER FI ELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMMBHTIELB & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON, E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
J. Car* Harborow,
470 GKEO3&GE STJG.SET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
EITRAOEDINAEI SALE
OF '
WINTER HOSIERY MNP MILLINERY.
New Stock of Ladies’ Gloves, Laces, and Fichus.
The Choicest of Fancy Goods in Sydney.
Parasols, Umbrellas, Gags. *
Purses and Fancy Ware.
BRISCOE, DRY SO ALE & 00
El, MACHINERY, ::: IS2W"
397 GEORGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON,
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND-
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chau
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Ag r
Implements.
i
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing: and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
f=£9Gi
m
V'/
imU s
. • V
■
mi >
-
PTIIB \T3O\aXO A
•suaTLiwa
MACHINERY.
Slotting
and
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing,
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hamm
Massey’s unequalled!
WO 08-WORKING MACHINERY.
Fret
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines- otf er.
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and s«®
English and American Agricultural lmple* B * nt *'
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse
Bakes, Reapers and. Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant*
COACH Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furn
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. _
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ;
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpaeks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Was
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery. Carpe ;
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvem ent 9 in
enters’
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDAIiE AND
387 USebrgge Street, Syrinx
&
"W. W. CuSLTEK, importer, 103 & 105 Pitt-street.
■ ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
CAT ER’S system of importing ail goods from the mannfacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by ourlargely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUME 3, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GLOVES, AND
, DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
aK-
Our introduction of Glove-fltting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great sueaess
p.ow both Lady and Gentlemen titters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
We have
W„ "W_
193 and 195 PITT STREET.
W.l
ilercbssif Habit and
Hobs Hiakars.
Trousers from 21s. to 4«s
ALBERT HOUSE, TEMPLE COURT, ELIZABETH STREET.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shearsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
M. A. BROWN & CO.p
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS ,
26-0 GEORG E STREET
(('Corner of Bond-btreot.)
From the Strand, London.
_ S —
Champagne
Heldsieck & Go’s.
DRY MGNGPGLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS,
SAMUEL RICKARDS & Co., Loudon,
Sole Agent* for Heldsieck & do,, Betas,
m
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, (fcc. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 60S GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Ossoasa ; also Angelo Bor.
doni» of Mmoia, Italy.
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CASHIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
80UTH WALES.;
BRANCH OFFICES.
SotJTHKUs District, N.S.W.;
Goulburn
Yass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundrsk
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culeairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carrathool
Hay
WasnsiiN District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertlre
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.;
Morpeth
Guimedab
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
ITralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Lin a:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby j
Yemlbn
Cambooya
Central Line:
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern Lins:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Eavenswooc* Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM, M'CDLLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
GST Agencies ia all parts of the world.
Foster’s
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
m
"sjiTVsr ■wrv-v-a. ■eifSM'S
J
The BEST ALE
and S'
T Otfi 1
tb e
SOLD BY ALL ggfcV^ 9 '
Yirgoe,Son^ C?J ?
AU„w InteMt
ou fixed deposit g sWSj&D * ,/'
and £l to* 0 ,0
CENT, on sums tror J)em aO a A >f,
Branch, Payable on >
::
rfSE#t
°*s322t&k
B
best of
efl>
Arthur Gu^iijjed.
goie^f


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 73.—New Series.
SATURDAY OCTOBER 4 1884.
Frioe—6d.
Libel law.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4. 1834.
Although the ruliug of Judge Innes in the
ease of “the money-lending messenger”
against the Herald is a welcome evidence
of llis Honor’s con ver-
siou to a system more
in hunnony with Bri-
tish justice than had
heietofore been ap-
proved by himself aud
his brother Judges, its
immediate effect is
simply to make the
law of libel in this
country more uncer-
tain than ever. His
Houor distinctly re-
versed his owu ru iug
iu the ease of Ander-
son versus Fairfax.
This reversal was, we
consider, very much iu
lavourof public inti r-
ests. But if successive
judgments or dinc-
tions can be «.ontra-
dietory on two occa-
sions, they can cmi-
tiuue to be contradic-
tory. No one cau be
sure that the next lime
the law of libel is laid
down by one of our
Judges, there will not
lie a return to the
system which Judge
Innes so unexpectedly
abandoned. The “glo-
rious uncertainty of
the law ” has been sub-
stituted for distinctly
had law, and that is all
that has been gained.
Bet us see how it
stands now. In The
Bulletin of June 30,
*B3> we mentioned that
' in the (Jlontaif-Bun-
tßTiN case, ii was ex-
pressly uiged by the
Pounsei f or the pro-
prietor of C’iouturf
that me whole tellur
of a jounihl and any
part of the contents
°f any of its numbers,
present or past, might
Be taken iuto consi-
deration as affording
a test by which to
judge of tpe inti ntiou
111 Publishing a parti-
cular article. The pie-
Judge, Sir VVil-
liam Manning, was at
’Be trouble of eou.-ult-
ll|g the Chief Jusiice
Before giving a ruling
° u this point ; aud,
Birtitied by consulla-
U °u with Sir Jam s
Baltin, he ruled itmt
( °iium nt on other
Portions of the paper
w as admissible, as
’Browing light upon
e spirit iu wbi, hit was conducted. This
Panels as a precedent; or, rathrr, it so stood
t'U the other day. But Sir George Innes
last as explicitly jultd to the contrary in
* s addre.-s to the jury in the Anderson
1 a>e. His Honor s owu words, as reported,
are:—
i*at I must tell youth-t you must not go by
ijeneral character of the paper. What you
have to consider is the character of this particular
article. And, on the other baud, if a paper were
to be charged with libel, and fome article were
given in evidence as a proof of that charge, the
article itstlf not being libtdlouf, then though it be
brought against them that they are constantly pub-
lishir g libels, and that the general evidence is that
the paper is a scurrilous proiuction, that cannot
be any proof that that particular article was libel-
lous. So, in this matter, the evideree that this
paper is generally conducted 01 the most cautious
lines possible in no way entitles them to immunity
THE TICHBORNE-ORTON-CRESWELL MYSTERY.
THE TICUBORNE CLAIMANT. THOMAS CRESWELL.
EISUND ORTON. WILLIAM CPESWEIT, (the Lunatic.) CHARLES ORTON.
when they do—by whatever means it may come
about-publish a defamatory article.”
These comparisons were induced by the
rulings iu the case of Anderson versus
Fairfax. Oii the same occasion, Sir George
Innes instructed the jury as follows
“The question is, Are these statements true?
Are these unhappy boys the means of getting a
good income from the public «nd giving Anderson
a certain hold upon g valuable property—thus
attributing to him dishon°st motives —and were
the boys worked for long houn daily at -the
severest manual toil, underfed, ordinary educa-
tion and religious teaching alike neglected, and
enjoying none of the pi ty or amu ement necessary
at their age? Nov, are these things true or not ?
Are they made out to your satisfaction ?”
And again :
“If this artielo had contented itself with saying
things of that kind, pointing out these matters
which you may take to have been pro\ ed, and if
these fac'B, having been proved, there had been
the strongest, the most trenchant, the most sevrre
comment and criticism upon the way in which this
institution was conducted, i. obody could have
found any fault with it. It would have been the
right unquestionably, and perhap3 it would have
been the duty, of a journal such as this to poiot
these things out. But what is complained of here?
Mr. Owen says he does not object to general ob-
servations. What he says is: ‘ They have charged
us here with various things to which I have ad-
verted uore in detail. We say they are untrue;
we say (hey are eminently calculate! to do U 3
injury.’ ”
With reference to which the Judge went on
to remark:—
“That is the way the plaintiff presents his case,
and it is for you to say whether these charges are
proved. Some of them may have been proved, and,
as I paid before, the thing Ins been subjected—and
justly—to very strong animadversion and con-
demnation on many points. But it is for you to
say whether these things are proved, and if they
are not preved, then the plaintiff is entitled to a
verdict at your hands*
with such damages a%
under all the circum-
stances of the ci B*, you
may think justititble.”
And, once more re-
ferring to the different
charges:—
“If you think they ha\ e
not been substantiated, if
you think one or more if
them, are of mfflcient im-
portance to be taken into
consideration as serious
charges, then the plain-
tiffs are entitled to a ver-
dict with such damages as
you may think proper.”
It is true that Sir
George Innes subse-
quently, in conse-
quence of cj'nmeuts
made by the Press,
denied that these ex-
pressions had cor-
rectly touveyed bis
meaning. Even then
he seems to have been
disposed to “come
round.” His Honor
remarked: —
“ I did not tell the jury
that the article must be
shown to be true ‘in
every particular,’ but
that all the statements
declared on, which in
their opinion had not
been proved and con-
veyed serious defamatory
charges, must be proved
to be true in order to en-
title the defendants to a
verdict.”
It is clear, however,
from the forgoing quo-
tations, that His Ho-
nor did instruct the
jury iu the sense he
denied ; and his sum-
ming in this recent
ease proves that his
dispositions were cer-
tainly shifting. His
summing on this occa-
sion is precisely in the
spirit which 1 iie Bul-
letin blamed him in
the earlier case for not
adoptiug. That is to
say, it is in accord
with the Bins laid
down by the Lord
Chief Jusliee of Eng-
land, and which Sir
James Martin round-
ly repudiated. Sir
James, it will be re-
membered, expressed
himself veiy super-
ciliously respecting
the legal acumen of
the Lord Chief Jus-
tice, and didn’t think
much of his decisions. Sir George Tnnes
seemed to have, in his earlier summings,
been considerably influenced by tVe yiews
of the Chief Justice. His recent conversion
is apparently an exercise of independent
judgment, which may involve a reversal of
his ruling the ttrst time Sir James Martin
presides at a libel trial. We place beside
each other passages from Sir George's latest
summing aud from an article in The Bullie**


TEE POPULAR BELIE
BRIAN BORU
NOTE.-YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprle-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefor© cannot boast of geld medals, &o.
Brian Boru
Whisky
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BEIL! BORU WHISKY,
when matured by age, Is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
THB Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
| wr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
«s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Boitle Bijirtal
MARKET BTHBBT.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET*
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, BHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at anf
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Is sold in this department.
Th» most Wholesomh or am, B*v*ragm*
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
is. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNBLISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
fIENNESSY’B STAR *** PALE BRANDT,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
4 larlref Street, Sydney .
Ttn commenting on the contrary ruling in
Anderson’s case in 1883: —
The Bulletin, June, Sir George Innes,
188J5. Sept., 1884.
“ It is at least quite un-
disputed that His Honor,
whatever he may have
meant to leave unsaid,
did not at any period of
his summing instruct
the j ury that they should
take a broad view of the
representations in the
article, weigh and con-
sider the general pur-
port, and the ultimate
effect from the stand-
point as claimed by the
defendants, and not de-
nied to them, of public
benefit. Sir George as-
suredly did not instruct
the jury that they were
not to split straws and
grope among technicali-
ties and petty details,
but to decide whether,
viewing all the matters
comprehensively and in
their mutual inter-rela-
tions, the article had
done the State good ser-
vice i or that the in-
jury, due to the unsus-
tained fractions of its
representations.inll icted
upon the plaintiffs had
been so considerable as
to outweigh the propor-
tion of benefit conferred
upon the community at
large. And if represen-
tations made in good
faith, without malice,
and with honest purpose,
and, broadly speaking,
accurate, should contain
a minute infusion of al-
legations not absolutely
correct, it is distinctly
for the interest of the
community that the re-
presentations should bo
regarded as a whole, and
a liberal appreciation of
their general import be
permitted. It is obvi-
ously not possible for
any public writer, how-
ever excellent his inten-
tions, and however clear
his faculties, to assure
himself beyond chance
of error on every detail
in all cases. A reason-
able latitude of infer-
ence must be conoeded;
otherwise, to desoribe or
comment upon any
wrong will be to court a
penalty for trying to do
the State a service. ’
“And so long as truth
in the statement of facts
was adhered to, the sub-
stantial broad truth
even though in some
small matters of detail
there was an absence of
absolute accuracy—and
in the comments upon
these facts the writer
confined himself to fair,
reasonable, and honest
comment under the cir-
cumstances —to com-
ment which fairly and
legitimately arose out of
the facts the writer
was not subject to an
action for libel, nor was
the publisher, no matter
how severe the animad-
version, nor how tren-
chant the comment, nor
how unqualified the
condemnation.
Was this substantially a
truthful account of the
circumstances of the
case, and in this case,
where the truth might
in their opinion be de-
parted from, did the
paragraph transgress
the bounds of fair and
legitimate comment*
and narrative of the his-
tory of the case ?*’
There we have the most charming harmony.
But the question is, how long will that har-
mony be maintained ? The next ruling may
“let down the pegs that make this music,’’
although Bench and Bulletin are “well
tuned now.” Uncertainty is nearly as bad
as oppressiveness, in the administration of
laws. We should counsel the legislature to
take this latest ruling as the basis for a
declaratory Act, and so eliminate the un-
certainty on.ce for all. And, while their
attention is engaged with the subject, they
might consider other bearings on the libel
laws.
• • •
Mr. O’Brien, M.P., is “ have ”
Mr. Crown-Solicitor Bolton for the amount
of the libel verdict given in the latter’s
favour by a “perfectly impartial jury” in
the Orange town of Belfast. In other words,
Mr. O’Brien intends to free himself from
liability by bankruptcy, as he cannot pay.
What a pity for the “constituted authori-
ties ” of the modern Sodom and Gomorrah
that the case couldn’t have been tried in
New South Wales, where Bolton, if unable
to squeeze out his coin in the Insolvency
Court, could, after putting the carcase of
his debtor into gaol for a year, have held
O’Brien as his bondsman for ever! They
have gone back in civilisation in England.
In New South Wales, on the other hand, the
proper representatives ” who still control
the curren t of w hat is ironically call ed j ustice
strenuously maintain the libel laws enacted
here in the days when it was necessary that
the adulterine children of Royal bastards
and the profligate irresponsible penny Neros
who ruled with cat and gallows in the name
of their relative, His Glorious Majesty the
Defender of the Faith, should have ample
means at their disposal for protecting them-
selves from the awkward effects of the
truth being told. Even in Ireland, a
man who sues a man civilly for libel cannot
of his own motion imprison him. He may, if
he chooses, proceed against him also crimin-
ally, and, if the jury find defendant guilty,
then it is for the Judge—who even in Ireland
rarely makes political speeches from the
Benoh, and never publicly endorses the
spirit of the existing libel law—to flne him
or to send him to gaol, as he deems fit. In
New South Wales, one is liable not only to
criminal prosecution and flne or imprison-
ment (or flne and imprisonment) in respect
to a criminal charge of libel, but he may,
after having been sentenced to imprison-
ment on such a charge, have to go to gaol
for another year in default of paying a ver-
dict gained, or costs incurred, by his pro-
secutor in a civil suit subsequently insti-
tuted against him.
* t (
Should plaintiff, however, lose his case, he
need pay nothing, for he can become
insolvent and laugh at the defendant,
and he cannot be sent to gaol. With
him it’s “heads I win, tails you lose.”
In Great Britain, imprisonment for debt
having been abolished, there is no longer
imprisonment for non-payment of libel
damages. It is for the Crown to
judge whether or not an alleged libeller
deserves to be put on his trial criminally,
and exposed to the chance of being sent to
gaol by the Judge. But in New South
Wales, where still are fondly kept alive the
murderous traditions of the convict days,
any scoundrel who on a mere technicality
gains a civil verdict against a journalist for
libel not only has the body of that journalist
delivered over to him for twelve months,
but is thereafter allowed to follow him up
to the day that the defendant is screwed
down in his coffin, on which article
he is permitted to levy an attachment.
In other words, suppose a man is found
guilty of a criminal libel in the Supreme
Court of N.S.W., he may be sentenced to
(say) six, three, or two months’ imprison-
ment, less or more, or he may be merely
lined; but should he, in a civil action with
regard to the same alleged libel, be mulct in
one farthing damages and some costs which
he cannot pay, then he goes to gaol for
twelve months and'become a bondsman for
ever, as insolvency will not relieve him from
liability. Thus, the Judge who, in the name
of society at large, condemns a man for libel,
ling your fellow-citizen, may only put him
in gaol; but the gainer of the civil verdict,
who puts him into gaol, not impartially
and on public grounds, as in the case of the
Judge, but merely for the purposes of his
private vengeance, is allowed to incarcerate
him for twelve months, to say nothing of the
legalpowers which he subsequently exercises
over him and any property he may acquire
thereafter. In one case, the defendent pre-
sumably goes to prison because the Court has
not thought that his case can be met by a
fine; in the-other, he goes to Darliughurst
because he is poor. His revengeful
judgment creditor can send him to gaol for
a year in a case where au ostensibly impar-
tial fudge, by whom he has already been
tried and sentenced, has considered he
would be sufficiently punished by an hour’s
imprisonment.
* * *
This state of things is worthy of Abyssi
nia, where they cut steaks from living
cattle; it also reminds one of the Chinese
system, under which a pauperised debtor
is handed over, not to justice, but to his
creditors, who are allowed to “take it
out” of him by plucking off his finger-nails
or gouging out his eyes. It is a state of
things admirably characteristic of the legal
system which practically allowed no counsel
to a Frenchman who could speak no
English, and was on trial for his life;
and which hanged him in the face of a
formidable doubt as to his guilt. Of
course the legal authorities will tell you
that a man is rarely or ever prosecuted
civilly and criminally in New South Wales
for libel. The Attorney-General, they will
point out, does not grant his fiat for a crimi-
nal prosecution in any case where the de-
fendant is worth legal powder and shot.
Then, we reply, a rich and pecuniarily re-
sponsible defendant has in that case an
advantage as compared with a defendant
who is notoriously moneyless. A libel for
which a man is put in gaol, civilly, for a
year, may not be worth an hour’s imprison-
ment. On the other hand, it may be deserv-
ing of five years. Should not the power of
, imprisoning be in the hands of the Judges
alone, and not in the hands of the prosecu-
tor, who is sworn to vengeance? Why
should not the widow who has been swin-
dled be placed in as good a position as
that of the man who has been libelled?
That is to say. why should she not, after
she has got her enemy convicted at the
the criminal sessions and sent to gaol, be able
when he comes out to put him in prison again
for twelve months should he fail to satisfy
her demand for the restitution of her money ?
In New South Wales the journalist is held by
the law to have a lower status than ttie house-
breaker or horse-thief. The horse-thief who
has ruined himself by committing a crime ?
and then getting into the hands of the
lawyers, is only tried and sentenced once
for the same offence, and when he comes
out of gaol he can obtain his insolvency
certificate. The journalist cannot. ;And the
reason is that a large section of the “ first
family” ruling powers would far rather see
this land infested by hereditary congenial
proteges in the shape of privileged scoundrels
of all sorts, from the undetected burglar to
the unprincipled seducer and therich fraud-
ulent insolvent, than allow any newspaper
the chance of telling the truth or of getting
a lair trial. Is character in New South Wales
so much better and more valuable than
character in any other English-speaking
country ? or, is it worse ?
Parkes is criminally prosecuting the pro-
prietor of the Campbelltown paper for alleged
libel. This can be read two ways.
The fishermen of George’s River complain
that the leasing- for oyster culture of foreshore 8
where they have hitherto drawn their nets,
threatens to interfere with their opportunities o l
earning a livelihood. Monopoly again.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Pop-shop’s Parson.
The money-changers were once kicked out of the
temple, but that was long ago. Tom Cannon, the
jockey, is patron of a living in the Church of Eng.
land, and so is Attenborough the well-known
London pawnbroker, who is now a millionaire, for
he has been lending at all sorts of per-centages,
during many years past, £lOO,OOO which was left
him ny his “ uncle.” Attenborough, who has
pawnshops all over London, owns the freehold of
the historic Catesby Abbey, in Northamptonshire,
and has in his hands the power of appointing the
local parson—which privilege appears to have
fallen into his possession, not as an unredeemed
pledge, but as a straight matter of purchase, with
money made out of the hypothecated portraits of
people's ancestors, and out of “ popped ” waist-
coats and “ spouted ” shawls. Delightful, isn't it ?
JuBt to think the “Book,” which, as Pastor
Allen and all the Protestant-Hall and Protestant
Standard gentry tell us, is “ The Secret of Eng-
land’s Greatness,” being expounded by some
wretched clergyman with a long family whose
necessities are so great that he has had to pawn his
Geneva watch for seven and sixpence—and in so
doing has made the acquaintance of mine uncle.
No usurer, the Bible tells us, “ shall enter into the
kingdom of Heaven.” Shan’t he ? George At-
tenborough and Aaron Waxman will see to
that, and so will the bondholders who are trying
to screw the last drop of blood out of the
Egyptian fellaheen. We have at last succeeded in
bringing religion to a convenient and practical
form. The clergyman may now write his sermon
“against ” usury upon the backs of disused pawn-
tickets in the “ private office ” of his patron and
master the local Mr. David Henry, ard the organ
will peal to an accompaniment of jingling sove-
reigns in the capacious pocket of the 1400-per-
shenting Mr. MXrks Hermann. But now that the
Established Church of England is distinctly under
the “patronage” of an avowed pawnbroker who
hangs out his gilt “ three [to one” in half the
streets of London, there may be at least an out-
side chance of the many hundreds and thousands
of money-changers who have long been masquerad-
ing in the front pews as uncanonised saints and
wingless angers, coming out of their shells. They
may now, perhaps, be emboldened to tell the
of the congregation that they are prr.pared with
their own fingers to lend the filthy lucre at 60 per
cent, on promissory notes at three months, renew-
able at 25 per cent, quarterly additional, and se-
cured by bills of sale. For this reason, we are
rather glad to see the three balls hanging out from
the Church-door at last. But hasn’t the time
arrived for another Reformation ?
Barmaids.
A few people may possibly still remember that in
Sydney, two or three years ago, a young gentle-
man who used to pose as a poet, and who is popu-
larly supposed to have parted with much coin of
the realm in vainly endeavouring to make his
numerous publications “ gee,” tried to “ reform it
altogether ” by proposing the abolition of bar-
maids. Well, this young gentleman is himself now
practically abolished, yet the barmaids goon—pro-
bably for ever. But the mantle of the barmaid-
extinguisher appears to have fallen on the editor
of the Sydney Liberal, who will perhaps be
pleased to hear that a doleful jeremiad lately pub-
lished in his paper on the Hebe question has been
reprinted in the London Echo. In the galimathias
referred to, it is stated that, “ owing to the large
preponderance of the male over the female ele-
ment in N.S.W., the barmaids soon get married”
(which is but a half truth, for the man who writes
this has been served with drinks by the same
pretty girls for years and years), and that “ the
bad ante-natal influences exercised over the chil-
dren of such mothers cannot too deeply be de-
plored.” We are not going to argue the bar-
maid question now, nor do we feel inclined
to say whether, in our opinion, it would
be better were whisky publicly dispensed by men
alone. We emphatically decline to unbosom
ourselves as to whether, did Nellie preside
over a whisky-mill at one corner and the editor
of the Liberal rule an opposition pub. equally
adjacent to this office, we’d patronise the little
woman who smiles—oh! so sweetly—when we
(and, alas I all others) enter the bar, and who
makes such wry faces as she squeezes the lemon —
or deliberately go across the way to be fascinated
by our learned brother in spectacles. Lots of
fellows—“squattahs” from Australia—used to
stand in front of Spiers and Pond’s Criterion bar,
and tell to Hebe wondrous stories of the wealth
and beauty of the land of the kangaroo. But,
now that Hebe has seen it all in print for herself—
now that she has learnt on the authority of the
Sydney Liberal, price twopence, backed up by
the London Echo, price one halfpenny, that she
can go from London, where she gets ten shillings a
week and is not allowed to shake hands with any-
body across the bar to Australia, where wages are at
least a pound, and where she can kiss Jumbuck,
Esq. (from the Barcoo) behind the bar Alter—
where, also, she is bound to get a husband soon,
who will discuss the subject of ante-natal in-
fluences with the editor of the Liberal— why,
under all these circumstances, can anyone reason-
ably expect anything but the arrival in Sydney of
Hebe from the Criterion, and Hebe from the
Horseshoe, and Hebe from tbo Cat<s Monico, as
soon [as they can get their clothes ready ? The
editor of the Liberal is solely responsible for the
forthcoming invasion of the Queen City of the
South by London barmaids, who will, po says tho
Agent-General, all be provided with letters of in-
troduction to the gentleman who has, across
twelve or fourteen thousand miles of ocean, so
adroitly thrown them a “ fetching ” bait.
Australian Fervour.
“ In the fervour of its religious communities, in
the devotednees of its clergy, the piety and gene-
rosity of its faithful children, Australia,” said
Archbishop Moran, “ yields in nothing to the
mother country at home.” If we assume that a
residence of two weeks, and with a constant sur-
rounding of men who flatter, and whose whole life
is mixed up in Church matters, is a sufficient time
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page


ME 111 CAL TESTIMONY.
Chapel Street, Prahran.
T consider there are no superior or more reliable
Hop Bitters than those known as
Bavarian Hop Bitters.
JOHN COOKE, M.R.C.S., Eng-,, L.S.A., Lond
Surgeon Alfred Hospital, Melb. ’
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
There are more cures made with Hop IBit-
ters than all other medicines. See flags and all.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
Co a S’p“t- y stree^ UrChaßed fr ° m HOCKINOS
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. 60| Hunter-street.
Sydney.
Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, roar-in s. ants,
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, chipmunks, cleared
out by “Rough on Rats.” Mo B s ilo. C,
Sydney, Agents.
No family should be without it; the most
caieful and abstemious will now and then have a
twinge of stomachic pain; no remedy is more re-
liable, none more infallible than Wolfe’s
BCHNAPPS.
When gentle spring emerges from her bower,
windB °o longer rage and blow;
When life is fraught with pleasures every hour.
Remember, then, the first place you must go
to is Bray’s China Warehouse, 402 and 404 George-
street.*
Marshall Brothers, American Dentists
supply Artificial Teeth of first quality at strictly
moderate charges. The practice of painless Den-
tristry is carried on by the aid of a large stock of
modern apparatus. Teeth painlessly stopped.
Painless extraction by nitrous oxide gas. Dental
Rooms, 104-6 Market-st., near Hyde Park.*
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant. &c. No commission charged for
buying. Agents for the sale or purchase* on
commission of Pure-bred Stoelr,*
Mb. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy
°1 the Board 0 f New South
Wales), Author of the Miners’ Handy Book,”
Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals, Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, «sr Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, orany fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
tr 7 theae once - Fou will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P O
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &o„ &c., by return post.*
Two or three colds in succession will often
establish the seeds of Consumption in the system
converting what was originally a simple, curable
affection, into one generally fatal. While ordinary
prudence, therefore, makes it the business of
everyone to take care of a Cold until it is got rid
or, intelligent experience presents a remedy in Dr
Jaynes Expectorant thoroughly adapted to re-
move speedily all Coughs and Colds, and equally
effective in the primary stages of Consumption
Asthma and Bronchitis. To be had of all druggists
and storekeepers, and Wholesale by Elliott
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney.
tip* Ingham’s
lißwi
Queensland Cure _
Jg} F ° 3%-
Asthma. Bronch/tis j.M
Coughs, B
II "V” PREPARED only nv . * *»
lngham v ~«f-
Rockhampton [js
to enable Dr. Moran to arrive at an estimate of
the enthusiasm of the laity and the “ devotedness’>
of the clergy, then his comparison of the state of
things here renders the state of things at home in-
telligible. As a matter of fact, we, who have lived
here most of our lives, know no distinction what-
ever in our dealings between Catholic and Protes'
tant. In the cricket-iield, or in the lodging-
house, nine out of ten young Australians do
not know nor care to what Church another
belongs. “ Fervour ” in such matters is not oniy
not known, but is, to most, unintelligible, or
reckoned a species of cracked-brained ness. The
Australian takes no more interest in the points of
difference of religious belief between Churches,
or their old feuds with one another, than he does
in the wars of the Hottentots. A glance at an
ordinary congregation shows a preponderance of
old people and women—the former attending
because they have been accustomed to it, and the
latter to a great extent from a love of display.
The younger people are in the parks, or on the
harbour. It is idle to put down this state of things
to secular education; for it obtains equally as well
amongst those who have been brought up in the
sectarian school*. Nor can it be said that it is
accompanied by a morality in any way inferior to
the older generation. The “ fervour,” the “ de-
votedness,” and the “ piety,” Dr. Moran will find,
are directed to other objects than thetcclesiastical
ones of any Church.
The Government Railway Policy.
The map which we print in another page will give
at a glance a better idea of what the new lines
proposed by the Government really are than
would pagas of descriptive writing. It cannot be
denied that the Government scheme looks very
rational as mapped. That is to say, the net-work
principle—the idea of bringing every part of the
territory within reasonable distance of a railway—
is fairly adhered to. There are, of course, a
variety of serious considerations, non-attention
to any one of which might render the apparent
comprehensiveness of the “net-work” system
delusive. The plan of the Kussian Czar of
drawing a straight line with a ruler between two
localities would look better on the map than any
curved or crooked line, and yet migat be the most
ruinous folly. The character of country to be
traversed, the gradients involved, the possible
amount of traffic to be carried or of production to
be stimulated, are more important than directness
of routes. We may presume that these and kin-
dred subjects will be thoroughly studied by the
Legislature before the Government proposals are
finally sifted and adopted, modified, or rejected-
The scheme submitted is one of magnificent pro-
portions, and, coupled as it is with a project of
borrowing of unprecedented magnitude, must be
accepted as indicative of a strong and bold grasp
on the part of the Ministry. In this respect, the
country is scarcely likeiy to be better served. The
largeness of the proposed borrowing appears not
to have dismayed the constituencies. There is a
MiCAWBER-Jike complacency evinced in this re-
spect b/ the public. The resources of the colony
probably will justify this confident attitude. And
if this be the case under existing conditions, con-
ceive what it might have been had the Govern-
ment been still more “ comprehensive ” in
their; conceptions and more bold in their policy.
Let the reader imagine what might have been
done in the way of railway construction with
borrowed money, had the Government of this
colony evolved a plan in which the land system
railway construction, and immigration, were
mutually interdependent. Let us suppose that
along everj projected line of railway, settlement
reserves had been instituted, either
on the leasing system, or for alienation to oc-
cupying settlers only, while simultaneously
a stream of population was drawn to the
country. If leasing were the plan adopted,
the increment of values given to the lands served
by the railways would have been not merely avail-
able to pay the interest, but ample to provide a
sinking fund to repay the capital cost; while
settlement and population planted everywhere
along the course of the lines, would furnish busi-
ness to make the railways themselves profitable.
By absolute alienations less would be accomplished
as to recoupment of the public creditors, and there
might be danger as at present of the land falling
Into few hands, thus affecting by absence of popu-
lation, the profitableness of the railways. By the
Present haphazard i system, which provides no
harmony .between railway c nstruction,;iand alien-
ation, and settlement of population, not one of
these advantages is secured. We believe that,
notwithstanding this, the colony will be able to
hear the burdens, disposed though they be so as to
be least easily borne. But the power of the colony
to sustain such a load is not more an evidence of
Ba enormous economic strength than it is a testi-
mony again d the short-sighted plans which fail to
make the best of the natural opportunities ready
t 0 the hand of the statesman who “ is not yet”!
he verdict of the Coroner’s jury, relative to the
' e ath by poison of Mrs. Payne, will not, webe-
leve > be endorsed by public opinion. It is possible
at the jurymen were unconsciously influenced
y circumstances which could not affect persons
r 0 mer ely read the evidence. There may have
cn that in the demeanour of witnesses which
cured the impressions of the jury. But, so far
he facts elicited by evidence at the enquiry are
encerned, foundation for the positive terms of
e ver< hct is sought in vain. That there were in-
• P ‘cable circumstances, is true. But inexplicable
cumstances are not necessarily suspicious ones.
e .® re Waa one special fact brought out by the
Mr e p° e ’ namel y- that the strychnine which killed
' ay ne had been purchased by herself. And
t^e re Were facts, essential we think for justifying
Ver< Mct given, which were emphatically not
ab ‘ted. Tij a t is to say, there was an entire
an ence °f evidence, or even of presumption, that
Sof Per8 ° n a oiotive for killing Mrs. Payne.
4n ar 8,8 the evidence went, it did not appear that
who° ne Wou^d be beneficially tfleeted by her death
an Coul(1 by any theory be supposed to have had
tij e P fh or^Un^y admin iBtering the poison. On
absen 61 and ’ there was an apparently equal
have ° e °*\ any reason why Mrs. Paynk should
the ( j Coaini *tted suicide. Dispassionately reviewed,
11 t of the evidence, as a whole, appears to *
point directly to accidentafself-poisoning; and we
cannot avoid the conclusion that, in returning a
verdict that Mrs. Payne was poisoned by some
person unknown, the jury went outside the evi-
dence, and permitted their minds to be swayed by
indefinite and practically unsupported impres-
sions.
The Raxes of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Adyebtisino Rates are 6s. per inch i
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent ii -
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Tbaill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
The Tichborne-Urton-Creswell Mystery.
On our front page, to-day, we reproduce the
portraits of the two Ortons and the lunatic known
as Creswell, whom they claim to be their brother
Arthur Orton, in whose name the Tiihborne
Claimant is now serving the last few weeks of
his two cumulative sentences of seven years each.
To the foregoing portraits we have added those of
the Claimant himself, and of Thomas Creswell,
who on his part claims to have recognised the
alleged Orton—the lunatic known as Creswell—
as being really and truly his brother William.
Thus, our readers have placed before them in one
group all the parties in this extraordinary ques-
tion of identity, and can form their own opinions
as to family resemblances. For our own part, long
and close study of the live likenesses has sug-
gested one idea. It seems to us that the so-called
William Creswell, although not strikingly resem-
bling any of the other parties, is more like the
Ortons than he is to Thomas Creswell. Also, that
the Claimant is more like Thomas Creswell tnan
he is like the Ortons. The Tiehborne case in
all its developments has long since exhausted
people’s faculty for astonishment. It seems to be
generally admitted that the so-called William
CreswelliCthe lunatic) and Arthur Orton were ac-
quainted with one another, and that their careers
had crossed, and even had been mixed up in a sort
of mist. Now, how would it be for a fresh com-
plication, if the clue supplied by the likenesses
were followed up, and it were discovered that the
Claimant is neither Sir Roger Tiehborne nor
Arthur Orton.? Suppose that the Claimant should
be William Creswell," and the so-called William
Creswell should be Arthur Orton I
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[CorretpondcnU who give neither name nor nom-de
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munication! noticed.]
“A.S.”: We think not. Part of hia duty
—for which he is paid by the country—is to give
free information to the public.. .“S.A.”: Of
course we re a democratic paper. N.S. Wales
is a democratic country—none more so—though
some colonists foolishly aod angrily deny it. But,
i what we say concerning the privileged classes of
! Great Britain is mild in comparison with what is
said weekly by English journals with circulations
of over half a million. We believe the principle
of heredity in government is, d priori, absurd,
and that hereditary lawmakers are about on a
par with hereditary poets or mathematicians
“Gaffney Your plans for regenerating society
would end in dismal failure. You do not look far
enough ahead, or work out the ultimate effect of
the application of your crude speculations...
“Robert W.” (Bundaberg): Why the Anglican and
Romanist churchmen were not placed on an equal
footing, so far as gubernatorial welcome was con-
cerned, is more than we can say. But there are
a lot of things connected with the vice-regal
doings that we give up “Asbestos”: We can
give no guarantee for its soundness. In the way
of business we publish this advertisement, but
see our recent answers on this subject “J O ”
(Murrumburrah): We do not publish your
name in full. For this you will be grateful to
us in the ages to come. Is there no open-
ing in the dam-sinking or shearing lines up
your way, that you must fall back on poesy ?
“ On the lovely Parramatta,
It was not a narrow matter,
When the blacksmith made a shatter
Of the lovely Naiads.
Watery son of fiery Vulcan!
Somewhat he his trade did sulk on,
What time first he got his bulk on
The seat that slides.”
Come closer. There. Now, honestly, J. 0., why
do you write this hogs’-wash and send it to us?
We never did you any harm. Ah I if we could but
get your “bulk on the seat that slides,” and keep
you toiling there till the freshness of youth (you
must be youLg) had given place to the furrows of
age, and your system was completely purged of
this n.ercilesB instinct for inflicting p in on your
kind! “Vulcan”:
“And the Northern road to Wiseman’s Ferry-
No cattle now can travel there!
And Government for a punt some hundreds are
getting—
Do you think for the lessees they are acting
fair ?”
We do not, Vulcan. We have said alt along that
Governments should stick to politics, aud let
punts alone. But they are too much occupied
•• bluffing ” Service just at present..‘H.Uai wo id”:
We cannot say. But it the 1881 calendar says that
the Civil service examination takea place in No-
vember, it is probably correct. Any “ coach ” wid
tell you the best English history to procui e, as he
will be acquainted with the style of questions
asked “Victorian”: “Mr. service is a siirewd
man.” Granted. “An able statesman.” Perhaps.
But it is certain that in this matter of the Pacific
Islands his jingoism has entirely misled him. It
prevents his Seeing the absurd light in which it
places him and his colony before the world. For,
if the foreign possession of Pacific rocks thou-
sands of miles away is a menace to Australia, then
America, France, and Germany mustshake in their
shoes when they see strangers in possession
of the West Indies, the Channel islands, and Heli-
goland. The missionaries are, likely enough, at
the bottom of this Pacific Island t. ree ‘ Hugh ”
wishes to know whether Honitou t.nd Wallingford
(Eng.) “ever returned membeis to he
commons, and, if so, when they ceased to do so
and for what reason ? ’ We have not time to look
the thing up. Possibly some reader may know....
“Roma ’: Teaching everyone to read and write
has its diawbacks. If you doubt us, look at the
leaders and “pars” in some of our contem oia-
ries .. “ Woollihra”: Tommy Moore “lovtd a
lord.” The little echo loves its “ House of Peers ”
auu laments the prospect of its going under or hav-
ing its teeth drawn. FaLcy an upi.er colonial cham-
ber composed mainly of squatters and their sous,
who, at their own sweet win, blocked progicss, or
what the majority of the people considered pro-
gress! Wonder it the Echo would advocate that ?..
“Oephah”: You ask us two thiugs 1. Whether
the enclosed would suit ? it would not —uaiess we
were about to sell our paper to an enemy early
next week. 2. What is our opinion on its compo-
sition, rh> thu , &c, ? i heremuet be some mibtake.
Y-u must ha.o tailed to forward them with the
poem -or perhaps they have been lost on the way.
‘C.E.B.”: Good, but has had to be held over.
You caunot blame us for this. We have held over
several things before now—a Chinaman over a
shaft, for instance; but that was long ago, and we
dropped his acquaintance in something' les3 than
three seconds. vVe believe his ghost is now edit-
ing the ahmid ale Chronicle, which is pro-
bably the cause of its spite against us
' Dick Dominick ”: We are sorry—for your sake —
to say that the corners of any consequence are ail
occupied. The blind man with the piebald dog
still sticks to the corner of Hyde Park; the widow
with the barrel-organ and the tivej children, and
the man w ho got two legs and an ar m broken at a
Blue Ribbon picnic some time ago, hold George-
street between them. The paralytic who sells
tracts lords it over King-street. So, really, we
don’t see what we can do for you—unless we could
get you a position as ticket-taker in the wax-
works. We take this to be about the clearest and
most categorical way of replying to what you sent
us, headed “Poetry.” But why, though, were you
so backward ? Why not have told us plainly what
you meant ? Of course, we understood you would
not send in such stuff if you werel capable of
earniug five shillings with a pick and shovel, or
could cut up firewood t\ ran existence. Still, there
was no use in putting us to all this trouble. But,
not to be too harsh upon you, we wilt send you a
plate with “Blind f om Birth,” or “Idiotic from
infa-cy,” or whatever label you choose inscribed
upon it. We would recommend the former; the
latter is now too common. Perhaps both would
suit you best Thanks “A Sub-
scriber” (Cloncurry): Much obliged. We shall
certainly make use of your information—say, next
week “8.G.”: Many thanks. We’ll notice as
soon as possible “ D.L.” (Molong : We have re-
ceived your letter concerning the Russian Gehenna
or Troubetykoi. We have b en through it, trying
to decipher your writing. Couldn t you blacken
the broom-handle, and write on a chaff-bag lor a
change ?
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Hymn to Humbug.
VERSES UNTO VICE.
(Continued.)
Wheu Mudgee Taylor heard the Veteran’s praise,
He pondered o’er his own peculiar ways;
And, in replying, in a timorous strain,
Confessed he’d sinned, and meant to sin again;
But, vowing from his course he ne’er would
hudge,
Said “Let Posterity my actions judge
Implying other times his sins would crown
With Patriot’s name and Senator’s renown.
Plainly he showed his unavailing rage
On this perverted and misjudging ago;
And deep the censure he thus cast on thoso
Who now combine his efforts to oppose;
And this the constant burden of his song:
“ I act aright, all other men are wrong 1 ’’
And shall Posterity thus eulogise
What seems but vicious madness in our eyes ?
Shall other ages revel in those scenes
Close following on that banquet of sardines ?
Or other times, when blasphemy’s more rare.
Extol that imprecation, “ Damn the Chair ?”
f such does happen, then the course of Time
Shall elevate the low to the sublime,
And seat some men, whom Humbug calls his own,
With white-washed name, on Virtue’s lofty
throne;
Or with the laurel and the bay adorn
Those whom their fellow-men received with
scorn.
Then, Davis will be called beneficent,
For lending cash at sixty-six per cent.:
And deemed a worthy servant of the State,
And qualified in Council to debate,
Because he tried young Bayliss to relieve
By selling off his goods on Christmas Eve;
And Ormiston will surely earn some praise,
Because he helped the generous loan to raise.
Then, too, John Davies will be counted free
From all things that disgrace a C.M.u.
And pliant Stuart, by a judgment kind,
Will be extolled for his decided mind;
Whilst to oblivion then will haste the tale
Of how he collared lands for coal and shale.
And, M’Elhone, how high thy name shall standi
Renowned for classic lore and manner bland;
Noted for moderation in debate,
And from corruption most immaculate.
Then, Holborow, a generous race shall yield
Praise to thy conduct in the ’Ouse and field;
And Sladen’s ghost a ghastly ode shall write
To prove thy valour in the deathless fight;
Benignant ages on thy name shall smile,
And hail thee as the “ Saviour of Argyle.”
And, Mudgee David, those two generous days,
For deep consistency shall sing thy praise;
Shall tell how good Sir John e’er strove to teach
Truest morality, by act and speech;
And, strong in Virtue’s all-prevailing force.
He strove to silence language wrong or coarse.
But, if such laurels shall adorn these men,
What will be thought of Bright and Gladstone
then !
If such be heroes, Beaconsfleld shall fade,
With all his deeds, to dark Oblivion's shade;
And Henry George’s Land Conversion scheme
Be lost in Lethe’s ever silent stream.
Just so dn Porson’s style) we dare to say,
When Bright. and Gladstone’s fame shall pas 3
away,
When Beaconfield on memory has no claim,
And Lethe’s waves roll over Bismarck’s fame;
When dark forgetfulness enfolds these men
Taylor shall be admired— but not till then.
Thou, who art Mudgee’s chief and constant pride,
Must still exhibit genius misapplied;
Still must we see thy native vehemence
So ill employed, because thy common sense
Does not avail to curb thy impetuous pace;
So every effort ends but in disgrace
If thou wouldst now thy speech just moderate;
Strive to reform, not overturn, the State;
And try for those dark evils to prescribe
Which, with thy pen, so well thou canst de-
scribe—
Then may thy genius earn the just applause,
When it shall serve to make, not break, our laws.
Then next we see, adorned with Humbug's dres 3 ,
A host of small “ Apostles of the Press,”
Who, with their ‘ rags.” where every line’s mis-
spelt,
Start to supply a “ want that’s long been felt.”
Their opening issue yells for Liberty—
Succeeding issues whine for £ s. d.
Show forth in print each township episode,
And keep a comer for the bellmgn’s ode;
And with such care describe the six-legged calf
That all can tell his place is on the staff.
Tis straDge to note what petty things engage
The writer’s effort in the weekly page;
But still the “ boss ” stays on, till money fails,
And then goes back to splitting posts and rails.
Small is the harm these little “ ” can do—
Small is their influence, their readers few—
When, for the axe “the staff ” has laid aside
His pen, few know another “ rag ” has died.
But who can read, without a rising blush
Of shame, that daily hash of moral slush,
Where every vice that e’er disgraced mankind,
And all the smut that charms a filthy mind,
Combine, with some poor fallen woman’s tale,
To gain the shameless print a greater sale ?
As to the Gardens birds of various sort,
From many lands, we carefully transport
To deck its grounds, and please the eager eye
With brilliant plumes our own land ean’t supply,
So this production, in its varied page,
Exhibits muck from every land and age,
And joins with a divorce from Baltimore
Police Court depositions from North Shore;
Shows how a Dublin man deceived his wife',
And prints the records of a Savage life.
London and Paris, Rome and Darling-street
Must all subscribe to till the ghastly sheet;
And scavenging is done with so much care,
That pennyworth of filth is always there.
ISHMAEL.
w hen lovely girls go tramcar chasing,
. alas ' that hoops impede,
Ana that the latest style in “ crinnies ’*
Does not assist to give them speed.
Gmwn wiser then, they soon discover
That sprinting’s not the game to try.
It they would draw a lingering lover
To join with them in marriage tie.


Personal
Items
Irom the appearance of John Lucas’ new
horse, it would seem that the quadruped and the
hon. gentleman use the same brush.
Lord Tennyson was present at the hearing
of Mrs. Weldon’s latest action. The joke of th j
London journals is that the Poet Laureate was
there searching for materials for “ copy ” Very
probably. We have done such things ourselves.
One Capewell, who recently suicide i in
the North Stafford Canal, left a memo, behind him
confessing to the murder of an old womau in 1877
for gain, and hoping that God will p rdon his sin
and taky him “ to Gabriel’s bosom ’’—which, if He
does, will be desperate rough on Gabriel.
JUGGED MISSIONARY.
He told us in a stupid ramble,
He’d left the “ pledge,” did Peter Campbell;
At this we did our shoulders shrug.
Thwjug was then in Peter Campbell,
Now Peter Campbell’s in the jug.
The late Judah Benjamin, the famous Lon-
don barrister, left property valued at £BO,OOO. This
is not so much for a great lawyer to leave—and a
great Jew lawyer, too! Lord, what possibilities
arise when we think of the Race getting the sd-
mfnistration of the law into their own bauds! We
should leave the country for one-if we were
allowed to. [The writer speaks lor himself here.
—Ed. B.]
Parlies is about to retire from public life
just about the time when so many worn out poli-
ticians of his age are so anxious to enter it. When
John Hourigan kept a pub. was the time There
was only room in the bar for two men, a tiddler,
and John’s foot. And when John began to dance,
the fiddler had to stand on the counter. And now
there is a report that Oh! couldn’t we write
an “ illigant ” election address for him.
A contemporary says that it is understood
that the next Moderator of the General Assembly
of the PrcBoyterian Church of Victoria will be the
ltev. J. L. Patton If ho comes, wejshould advise
him to come with a club. Or, ia other words—
If we're the liberty allowed,
O Reverend Mr. Patton,
We’ll hint, you'll moderate this crowd
But one way—with a batten I
General Codrington, whose death is just
announced, was commander-in-chief of the Eng-
lish army in the Crimea from Nov. 1855 till tne
close of the war. At the beginning of tnat war he
was a captain in the Coldstream Guards, though a
brevet-colonel. His rap.d promotion from his
Coldstreim company to the command-in-chief
astonished the French, to whom brevet rank was
a mystery. Codrington was no soldier, but he
could wrap a shawi round a grande dame with
tremendous grace.
Gerald Massey is, it is known, an cxplolteitr
of psychic science. Having finished his course of
lectures on poets and dramatists, he is going to
unfold to the Melbourne public some of the dark
secrets in whioh Spiritualism is trying to seat it-
self. The lecturer will bo listened to, but he will
have to say the same thing over and over again a
good many times before his audience will believe
him. That anyone who has been lucky enough to
die would come back from the grave to take part
in a seanoe at Melbourne is a test question for
credulity.
Lord Colin Campbell has lost his appeal,
after doing his best to drag to the light the parti-
culars of “ the disgusting condition of his health ”
—to use the words of the young lady who was a
month or two ago his wife. It is rumoured that
by way of assuauring the violence of his grief, he
will take a tour of the unfortunate colonies. This
resolution has probably been arrived at by his
lordship on being told that, in Melbourne, there is
a street named after him. In our own ciiy he can
certainly rely upon gaining experience of the
“ Argyle Cut.”
“ Sir Roger ” evidently has a keen eye to
business. Application has been made by him to
the Directors of Convict Prisons, that he may not
be photographed before leaving Portsmouth
Prison, lest the likeness may get into the hands of
a local tradesman and copies be disposed of, as
was the case when he was at Millbank. The di-
rectors havo granted the application, and the
“Claimant” will, consequently, not havo his
prison photograph taken till he reaches Pentonville,
My face is my fortune, sir,” she said. Fat Arthur
will make a lovely professional beauty.
Dave Buehanan on the Premier, in the
Rum:—“The voice never varies nor alters. He
begins and ends on the same note. Sometimes he
utters good sound solid sense. Often he is in the
right in the view he takes; but all is spoilt by a
total inaptitude for public speaking, and by an
utter disregard to everything in the shape of em-
phasis or elocution.”—
Don’t be so hard on Stuart’s tone,
Oh, Dave, you most conoeited fellow;
For all would sooner his dull drone
Than, Dave, your most outrageous bellow.
King Tawhaio has jumped on his fourth
seventeen-and-si.xpenny white tile. The lest time
was on the occasion of a Mrs. Leo Hunter boring
him to go to a garden party at Kensington. “ You
go to Kensington, King,” said Mrs. Saintsbury,
Imploringly. “ You go to 1” Anyhow, at this
point he jumped on this hat. We expect the Can-
terbury Museum will get one of thi se cidies—
White Bell-topper Jumped on by the
Maori King Tawhaio.
Presentediby Henniker Heaton, Esq.
You’ll see, now.
Now that the Cabbage Garden Wolseleys
have burst their big gun, the following cheerful
little item will no doubt be read over there with
interest: “At Munich last month, a non-com-
missioned officer of artillery named Jacob, fe ring
punishment because one of the guns under his
supervision had accidentally burst, loaded another
gun, and placing himstlf immediately before its
mouth, fired it and was blown to oieces.” Poor
Jacob! Esau be was in a tight place, and there-
fore, hitching himself stern on to his beloved
weapon, exclaimed, “Isaac, myself to save the
expense of a court martial.”
The oldest inhabitant has just died again.
This time, however, he happens to be one of our
black brudders—Karranampo Jim. who “ went
under” one day last week at Point Pierce Station,
Victoria, at the early age of 80 years. Not lost,
but gone to jump up white pfeller.
In Memoriam.
Dearest Jimmy, how we miss thee!
Miss thee, ymi bet, no tongue can tell;
Too much tangle filled thy biujie,
And now, dear Jim, thou’rt gone to Heligoland—
Or some other place of worship. R.I.P. and C.O.D.
William Neill is aware that Sirenry has
offended his friends by an unbending austerity to
the interests or the State; sacrificed his bept for
quiet literary pursuits in his mountain home: sac-
rificed the interests of his family in subservience
to the public welfare, and so on. Neill having
buttered Parkes, it wxiuld be only fair were Parkes
to turn toon the first opportunity and butter Neill.
People would so much like to know what Sirenry
is aware of about Neill; specially anything extra
noble about that virtuous man’s sacrifices in his
dealings, as manager of the City Bank, with dum
hem!—with—er—conditional purchasers of Crown
lands.
Colonel “ Methurdo ” is the name which
(thanks to Granny’s patent automatic reader)
Archi' aid Forbes gives to perhaps the bravest of
England's braves -to Bill M'Murdo, whom Forbe?,
in another part of his screed on the British Volun-
teer. calls “ Sir ‘ Montague’ M’Murdo.” Well, one
of Mac’s names is Montague; but he never used to
sport it, preferring his first and far more Christian
name of Bill. If it be true that of late he has gone
in for that measly pretentious “Montague” (which
always makes us think of Tigg and Manning and
Levy), all we can say is that the last state of the
man is a doosid sight worse than the first, when
there were no frills about Napier’s Mac.
Rough upon rats is old man John Bright,
the Quaker tribune, and here’s what he recently
said touching one species of the vermin: “The
peers of England have entered the temple of
honour, not through the door of merit, but
through the sepulchres of their ancestors. They
are no better than their fathers, and some are
worse. They are the spawn of the blunders, the
wars, and the corruption of the dark ages of our
history, and their privileges have produced
nothing but ignorance and arrogance.” There
are several other things also, but John’s' breath
ran short just here, and he had to reluctantly step
back and sample the contents of a new filter.
NEVER!
So! Faded from that room, sweet Perce —
That room which thou didst so adorn—
And, oh, Adonis, what is worse,
Of all thy little power shorn!
It cannot be—they must retract:
The earth revolves, and Lucas sacked I
A thousand times, oh, Percy, No!
Why, we would just as lief believe
That rose-buds grew in Arctic snow,
As thou, of all, should, Lucas, leave I
But, if you must, why make them pay;
Your dad, dear boy, can show the way.
WALLS HAVE EARS.
MR. ALECK SM[?]RTY (Clerk): “I SAY, BOB, IS OLD SNAGGY, LIMITED, UP THERE? IF
HE IS, SEND THE OLD COCK DOWN; HIS OLD ’OMAN IS HERE AND WANTS TO SEE
HIM.”
It chanced that “ Old Snaggu" himself, happening to be near the speaking-tube, answered it in
person. Mr. Aleck Smarty is now looking for a billet.
A well-known gentleman wasn’t invited
to Prince Leopold's funeral; but, not to be licked,
he donned the regulation garb; and. being known by
the palace officials, was let in. Being caught sight
of and recognised by Ponsonby Fane, an effort was
made to get him out; but it was found to be im-
practicable! When the show was over, the unin-
vited guest duly seated himself in the special
train; but there Royal vengeance overtook him,
as he was “ billed ” out by the police. People
have tried to palm Heaton off on us as the hero of
this yarn ; but we know better. Henniker
wouldn’t have gone without a ticket. He'd have
bought one. And how many second sons of noble
lords would have b?en glad to part with their
pasteboard for a twenty.
Mr. Anthony Hordern, who may be termed
the railway-king of Western Australia, has just
arrived in Sydney from that colony, having ob-
tained the contract for the construction of the
Beverly-Albany railway, as ho returns to Eng-
land to commence operations almost immediately,
his stay in Sydney will be of the shortest. Mr. Hor-
dern's scheme is certainly a gigantic one, embrac-
ing as it does the construction of 300 miles of rail-
way-providing steamers to bring out not only the
materials, but the manual labour and implements,
as well as the population to occupy and cultivate
the land contiguous to the railway. To ordinary
scheme seems Utopian injits magnitude,
but what capital combined with Mr. Hordern’s
peculiar energy will do remains to be seen.
An anti-flogging meeting was recently
convened in Newcastle, and it was to be conducted
by “Mr. Norton of the Evening News,” the
gentleman whose fiery eloquence caused so much
“ astonishment and admiration ” at the Mercantile
Rowing Club banquet. It seems, however, that
the orator, for some reason or other, never turned
up, and after waiting for a short while, the meet-
ing cursed itself away. A local organ re this
matter, has the following:—“We had the pleasure
‘ of being introduced to this so-called representa-
tlve of the E. News, and must say that his method
of fulfilling the mission he visited Newcastle for,
neither redounds to the credit of that journal or
himself.” Cela (Upend. Perhap3 Alfred’s delegate
couldn’t attend. No Italics, as this is a square par.
“Sir Thomas MTI wraith,” says the Mary-
borough Chronicle. “does not come back as
the heroic martyr to some great principle. His
six months’ absence is a very ordinary matter in-
deed, and he does not appear to have attempted
i anything ‘noble’ during his tour.” When we
consider that our own Premier is back with us
again, that he was “noble” during the whole of
his tour, that he made money as well as speeches,
and that he brought back a settled determination
to meddle no more with the Government of this
j colony, we hug ourselves to think howgreen with
: envy Queensland must be at our lot. His absence
was for us, and himself, no “ very ordinary ”
matter, indeed. He does come back “ a heroic
martyr to a great principle;” he has attempted
something noble—for once in his life. He has
agreed to let us ruin ourselves in our own way.
Glory to Sir Henry. He has found out when we
had enough of him.
There has been a funny case up at Gun-
dagai, and, as you might imagine, little Ba ley was
the defendant. Benson, a storekeeper there, it
seems sold W. H. L. some goods, and Bailey had,
of course, a contra for advertising. Well, Benson
and Bailey have a row, and Benson goes for the
j Little Busy in the District Court there. The only
witness called was old Elworthy, who deposed that
he considered Bailey's charge of 10s. a column ex-
cessive, and that he only charged 3s. lOd. per
column in his paper, and had done so for 25 years.
If this, be true, the total advertising value of the
Gundagai Goose would, supposing it were all ad-
vertisements, only amount to some £6 per issue.
Mr. Elworthy does not deny this; but he retorts
on Bailey, charging that modern Junius with hav-
ing "gone after” an advertisement for 2s. lOd. a
column, which he did not succeed in getting. Wo
have always longed to possess a country paper.
Now we absolutely yearn for one.
The Church of England Record has re-
published Walker’s “ Recantation;” and it is very
funny. He is really a most musical lyre. He says
“No newspaper, no seance, no friend, no spiritist
ever said that he was not c mtrolled, therefore they
arc responsible.” Now, one paper did—the Free-
man's Journal That paper bowled Thomas out
decisively, but Bowie Wilson (rest his feet!) was
making too much money out of the young fellow
at that time, and his influence was great with the
reporters. The Spiritualistic “push” got hold of
Jimrny H , of the News, and converted him en-
lir ly to th-dr views. The first stance was held at
Captain Edwards' house in Bunt-street, and there
Walker delivered a lecture “under the influence
and in a trance.” A glowing report in the news
followed, and then the trance-lecturer commenced
to blink weekly at the Theatre Royal. When
James and Thomas meet on the fashionable pro-
menades, now, James angrily snuffs up the city
dust, while Walker becomes all of a sudden deeply
interested in the “skyline's blue-burnished resist-
ance.”
The O’Donovan, who had telegraphed about
a million words re the Most Rev. Dr. Moran to the
Freeman, dashed up, covered with dust, in a cab
the other day. He had been dreaming all the way
along in the train of the reception he’d have at the
hands of his confreres, and half expected to hear
the German band playing “ See, the conquering
hero comes,” in York-street. Leaping out of the
vehicle, he started back in surprise. The door was
closed, and on the st6p was a little boy sucking a
“lolly-stick.” “Hullo!” cried the O’Donovan.
“ Hullo I ” repeated the urchin. “ Why, where
have they gone?” “ Home,” replied the imp.
“ Where do you live?” enquired the O’D. “Next
door,” said the boy. “ And don’t you know me ? ”
enquired the special correspondent of the Free-
man. “No, I don’t,” said the youth emphaticul y.
What! shrieked the O’D.—“live next door, and
don t know me! And this,” he sobbed softly to
the cabman, “is my welcome home.” It was
Saturday morning, and they hadn’t given him ten
minutes grace. The holy staff had all gone to the
races! Our little joke.
Awkward! Why there’s no word in all
the bright lexicon of the Baglish language that
can come within cooey of justice to the subject
hehearsal was late, ana as the two clivas hopped
into a tram, Hopped down on their seats like snow-
flakes on the bosom of a lake, the first lady pet-
observed aloud that “you never can see a
cabby when you want one; but, nowever, a tram
in spite of the horrid crush, was better than no-
Jning. She was a sweet, gushing thing of about
thirty summers, and Solomon’s best wife was
never arrayed as she was, nor smelt half so sweetly
either. Lying carelessly on her lap was a beautiful
morocco cylindrical case, on which the word
‘music” was stamped in large gilt letters. The
car was well filled at the time, and the ladies were
the attraction of all eyes, when a clumsy galoot
stepping out accidentally knocked the music-roll
on the floor. Then there went a yell of laughter
up from that end of the tram that made the welkin
plug its ears with wool to stop the replication of
the sounds, for the dainty morocco had burst and
the contents, which strewed the car, turned out to
be two pig's feet, about a yard of “polony,” threo
rolls, and a quart-bottle of that Olympian nectar
known as “ wollop.” The ladies left the car—and
their music, too—at that crossing.
Charles Bright says of Stout, the Free-
thinking New Zealand ex-Premier (an ugly phrase
but we have no better handy!) that “one of the
grandest traits in Stout's character is his prodi-
gious industry and capacity for prolonged work.
It is no uncommon event for him to be engaged'
all day in court in an intricate case, then to snatch
an hour for some meeting as director in a mercan-
tile association, preside after the eveniDg meal at a
school committee or friendly society gathering
and coming home after ten, be followed in an
hour by a printer’s emissary to receive a hastily-
written leading article for some newspaper.” And
this is a grand trait, is it ? No wonder that we have
to read such slovenly argument and slip-3hod
grammar in the leading articles of the daily papers
if many of them are written after this fashion.
We have no belief in this hasty writing—this
“ dashing-off.” There are some men who can do it
sometimes, but not often. But this is not the chief
objection we have to make with regard to Mr
Bright’s conception of a grand trait in character*
We say it is no grand trait in the character of any
man of great ability for good—Mr. Bright himself,
for instance—to fritter himself away on a number
of small things. If he can do one great thing well
and as no other can, then o’ God s name let him do
it and leave the little things to little men who can
do them as well as he. But —as though we cared
for anything!
Have we seen Dr. Moran ? The question
makes us smile. At a rough guess, we have seen
something like 45,000 exact representations of His
Brace in the pages of our wonderfully and fear-
fully illustrated exchanges; and as each dazzling
daub represents a totally different style of man,
we naturally conclude the new arrival must be a
Protean sort of prelate, who has a fresh face and
form for every paper-stainer who calls round to
caricature him. in the Freeman we find a very
much Milesian style of party—one who evidently
has a “fut av his own” and the strength of will to
put it firmly down; but the c’rect card in the
Distress represents a one-eyed man who is suffer-
ing from the very worst type of small pox. The
Down and Gumtree has apparently touched up
an old plate of Li Hung, the Chinese ambassador,
in his official robes, and by substituting a cross for
a dragon and letting out the tucks in both ears,
Alfred has succeeded in giving us a chef-d'oeuvre
which, although not quite so phenomenally repul-
sive as the general run of his “ picturs,” is yet vile
enough to justify a jury in bringing in a verdict of
justitlable nomicide in case the subject of the
blood-curdling sketch burst in the brandy-and-
water-eolour artis ’s skull with a meat-axe. The
Illustrated News gives us something in a “more
condoling vein,” as bully Bottom would say; but
the Mail's pictorial libel represents the face of a
man who had evidently glutted his vengeince on
someone and had still two or three gluts on his
hands to spare. Yes, we have ssen Dr. Mho-ra/i -
and now we want a rest.
Persons who are addicted to the ele-
vating pastime of “booting” their unsuspecting
fellow-men, would do well to pause in their wild
enthusiasm for the noble sport, and sit down in a
cold spot and ponder over the fate of one Mr.
James Rodda, of Auckland. From the evidence
before the court, it appears that a Mr. Thomas
Buckman, of the same city, told a few friends that
he was intensely surprised to find them associating
with a person of such shady antecedents as Mr.
James Rodda; and, this being told to that facetious
gentleman, he smiled sweetly, rubbed his hand
ominously round the toes of his No 9’s, and plea-
santly observed that he’d surprise Mr. Buckman a
trifle more before the golden sun had sunk to
rest. Shortly after this, Mr. Buckman happened
to be down at the Queen-street wharf stooping
over to examine some cargo just landed, when
Mr. Rodda tripped gaily along, and, balancing him-
self on his left foot, he got the right into a nice,
graceful swing, and then lifted Mr. Buckman
clean into the waters of the New Zealander’s lovely
harbour. This was capital fun for Mr. Rodda,
but it was nearly death to Mr. Buckman, who
struck his head against a collier's stern as fami-
liarly as if it had been the bosom of a long lost,
strawberry-tattooed brother. Be Dg hoisted out
and hung across a fence to dry, Mr. Buckman
recovered, and, taking the law on Mr. Rodda, he
carefully stuck that gentleman for £l5O damages.
As the part'es left the court, Mr. Buckman struck
an attitude, and requested Mr. Rodda to take the •
worth of another century or so out of his un-
guarded person, but James was either too full of
kicking, or too short of ca h, as he positively de-
clined to go on again at anything like the price he
paid for his last enjoyment. According to the
rules of football, therefore, Mr. Buckman has all
the best of the game as yet, he having scored a
goal to his opponent's “one behind.”
The Siamese - twinship of saints beiDg
broken, and Sankey dead. Moody alone remains to
a benighted world. But before leaving for a
better, Sankey seems to have willed over to Moody
the power that was his (Sankey’s) own. Yes.—
For probably this good holy man,
Though now in a world of bliss.
Still likes to know that the dollars go
To the Holy Ring in this.
And this esprit de corps—or “corpse,” should we
rather say was very creditable to and q’’ite
characteristic of Mr. Sankey. But the bereaved
Moody ;has made the ’ business boom in higher
circles. He is patronised by the nobility and gen-
tility in these virtuous days. What is the conse-
quence? Goes be go oh thundering against vice
in high places, equally as in low ? Does he lash
th<? .poor with wnips, but the rich with scor-
pions? Is he mad, do you think? No, he it
not mid, and he does none of these tthiuas-
He talks with vague eloquence about sin in the
abstract—wliieh means sin among the Orinoco
Indians and ths Ancient F,gypi ians, when it means
anything—and “never mentions Hell to ears
polite.” And, when interviewed by a representa-
tive of the Pall Mall Gazette lately, the saintly
man informed that gu leiess journalist that “ Lon-
don is the most religious city in the world.” The
hasty reader might object to this, and say that
recent statistics prove quite the contrary -that
they prove drink, debauchery, fornication, adul-
tery, and every 3peeies of crime and devilry to be
on the increase in London every season. Well,
But what have these things to do with the ques-
tion ? By saying that London is the mo t religious
city in the world Mr. Moody simply means that
London is the pity of the world ia which he has
made the most money, and that he is too much oi
a blessed saint to be such a cursed simpleton as to
go and say anything to offend the people amongst
whom he was making his fortune. We consider
Mr. Moody to be a very virtuous man; and
only wish that, when the play begins to pa*l oa
him, he would adopt us, and such a pair of loose
legs as we two would then shake over Europe
would simply turn the devil into a devotee through
sheer hopelessness of rivalry.


T. L. Smith's Latest IVtave.
OPENING NEW PREMISES, at
418 GEOEGE STREET,
Opposite the present establishment, 399 George-st-
CLEARANCE SALE of BOOKS, STATIONERY,
PICTURES, FANCY ROODS, CARDS FOB
ALL SEASONS, ETC.
Surprising Reduction of 4s. in to expedite
remo>al of his enormous stock.
I3F" The ?alc now progressing is a gratifying
success.
T. L. SMITH, 399 George-st.,
Exactly opposite the Royal Hotel.
C. COWLES,
GUNMAKER & IMPORTER.
CiScofTvUi
mm.i. ..
Sols Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality are no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, BPORTTNO KNIVES, &c.
Repairs I y London workmer,
ty C. COWLEfe, 407 GEORGE oTHEET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
Travers Vegetable Compound
copyrighted
mm
W Si;
CECHTXIiOI'HI^.cIOO
"THOUSANDS OP LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs. Traverf Compound
does all that it claims to do."
C3*Ua purpose is Solely fir (ho loaitimute healing of disease
and the relief of pain, jt is prompt in action.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMEDY
For all those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female population.
Price, 10s. 6d. per Package.
03*Ladies. it trill under all circumstances, act in harmony
with the laws that gcfYe. n ycur system.
(£S*That feeling of bearing' down, causing pain, weight, and
backache, is always permanently cured by its use.
IT IS A GREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
swr*ltis a Blessing to overworked women, and its sales are
unpft'COdente 1. 11 removes faintness, flatulency, ell craving
for stimumfita, and relieves weakness of the stomach. Periods
passed without pahi.«£o
Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
££Tlt revives the drooping spirits, invigorates and har-
monizes the organic functions, gives elasticity and firmness to
the step, restores the natural lustre to the eve, and plants on
the pale cheek o f woman the fresh roses of life’s spring and
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE.
05“ For the cure of Kidney Complaints of either sex this
Compound! s unsurpassed. «£0
Mr*. Travers’ ‘ ‘Guideto Hfaltli” wfltbe mailed free to any
ludyse'iMhi* stamp. Letters ofinquhv confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed f*-ea from observation on receipt of price.
Address, P.O. EioU, 907. Sydney.
J MRS. TRAVERS* LtVEK PILLS cure Constipation, Bil-
iousness, ami Torpidity of ths Liver. Price 2s. 6d.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
rm INFANTS >nd INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnsss, .Nervous Deoility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. 83F“ CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS*
X?IOR SALE, OR TO LEASE,
MENZIES’ HOTEL,
in the finest position in Melbourne.
Established upwards of 30 years.
Receipts exceed £20,000 per annum.
H. BYRON MOORE, & McLEOD
Exchange, Melbourne.
Simultaneously with the resuscitation of
the Tichborne mystery by the proceedings rela-
lative to Creswell, comes a fresh crop of yarns
about long-lost ber-uthers and wanderiDg heirs,
first; there is the New Zealand small-debts bailiff,
■ivHo iS how tiif Lbrd find was badly licked, with the
tough fide tif thfe elfector’B tohgties, ’tfhSn, on his
noble origin being dishonored; the fdadie§ of
his district rail him as a candidate for the House
of Representatives at the recent election. Then
comes Cave, of Bundaberg (Q.), whose Claims to be
recognised as Earl of Newburgh the English
Courts will shortly have to decide. The usual
notice has been served on the tenants on the New-
bufgh estates for which overhaul your “Ten
Thousand a Tear.” Cave is a gentleman, and a
Cerjr good fellow. He tised to be in tne Queeus-
Jahd Civil ServicC; a sdrveyot in the Works De-
partment, but having too milch “go” In him to
fossilise in the official CaverhS, he Struck out
for himself, and is now d wine and spirit
merchant at Bundaberg. Then, next on the
liet, “Some months ago a digger, Who gate the
name of Stanley, was admitted to the Hokitika
Hospital in a state of extreme illness and inipecu-
nioBity. In spite of the care of the doctors and
nurses; his state of healtn did not improve for a
long time, and when he was in a fit state to leave
he reg.ettod that he was unable to pay for the
mbdidai attendance and board, and requested that
the bill for the amount should be forwarded to his
felatiVe dud frieud, the Bari of Derby. Ihe secre-
tary of the institution, sfeeing that the man wao of
gbod birth and education, blit with somC misgiv-
ings as to the i\ suit, posted the bill to England.
By the return mail came a cheque for the amount;
Tbe digger is ?t present in the Kanieri district.”
And, according to an English paper, another
“ poor relation,” at present in New Zealand is Sir
Charles Burdett, who, when Inst heard of, was set*
iog as cook to some labourers engaged in draining
the swamps ot the Waikato River. Sir Charles, it
appears, has descended to his present position
owing to a little failing which is prevalent among
Cooks. 'J he “swamp.-rs ”do Dot altogether appre*
date tbe baronet's efforts in the culinary art, and
wlmn their viands are not to their taste he is re-
primanded in true Colonial fashion. Had it not
been for his unpleasant habits. Sir Charles might
at this iiioment haVo been occupying a distin-
guished position at home.
Michael Davitt is a staunch and Uncom-
promising advocate of Henry George s land
nationalisation scheme, and Consequent y he is not
regarded with a fraternal feeling by Messrs. Par-
nell and Biggar, who still would perpetuate the
rotten system of landlordism id Ireland, but under
a different name. A great demonstration of the
Nationalists was held on the 10th of August at
Monaghan, to which Mes-rs. Davitt and Biggar
were invited to deliver addresses, but the latter
wrote to the committee asking whether Mr. Davitt
had intimated his intention of being present, and
if so that he (Biggar) would notattend, winding up
his note thus:—“l so much disapprove of bis
(Davitt's) opinions on the subject of land nationali-
sation, and of his conduct in other respects, that I
will not bear the responsibility of countenancing
him in any way.” And this is Davitt’s scathiDg
reply:—“Not for worlds would I allow my he-
terodoxy on the social problem of the day or
*my personal conduct in other respects ’ to
come between the wind and the nobility of
Mr. Biggar’s personality. For it is meet that
the atmosphere of such a paragon of righte-
ousness should not be contaminated by the
breath of land nationalisation, or a character so
stainless be even trout,led with the suspicion of
a dangerous proximity to one of moral direiiction.
Therefore, I will not withhold the hon. gentleman
trom the Monaghan meeting. I might have sum-
moned up a iit'le of a by-gone fortitude with
* hieh to confront the sentence of my political ex-
communication at the hands of so august an
authority ou economic science, had the ex cathedra
pronouncement not been accompanied by the
virtuous reprobation of the ex-Parisian gallant
and mashing gay deceiver, Cavan’s Conquering
* Joe but lam now, alas, bereit of that consola-
tion which sustained a belief in my own virtue
before the awful mandate of St. Joseph Biggar
was spoken. Land nationalisation is no morel
Peace to thy philanthropic spirit, Henry George I
No more shall laieser faire philosophy contend
against thy propositions, or landlord conscience
tremble at the future which thou hast foretold.
Joe Biggar has passed sentence upon thee; and
thus, as the unorthodox Atlantic consented to roll
bmk its troublesome waves in obedience to the
efforts of good old Dame Partington, who ‘re-
fused to bear the responsibility ot countenancing
it in any way,’ so will the tide of ‘the land for the
people’ recede, and the hopes of its advocates
vanish into thin sir, before the solemn and irre-
vocable condemnation of Joseph Gilles Biggar.”
Bravo! Michael; in fact, as they say in the ould
sod, “Glory to yer finger, Mick.”
Master Thomas Rooney, a Sydney public-
school boy of 14 summers, is a young gentleman
who bids fair (o speedily acquire rank and fame, if
'he is not untimely cut off by a heavy frost. On
Hast Monday week, this extremely piomising son
•ot the soil landed in Melbourne per steamer Bunin-
jong, and calling round'at the Great Britain Hotel,
’told the landlord to “ fix him up proper,” as he had
lust arrived from Sydney to recruit his shattered
health, and see what sort of a durned little village
Melbourne was, as he thought of giving up the
demn’d gay life he had been living, and intended
to settle down and steady himseit till Christmas.
On the Thursday following, he was interviewed by
a detective, who found him reading, not a Bible,
as a good little public school boy should, but a
thrilling account of the “Life and adventures of
£ed Kelly,” or the “Gory General of the Great
Glenro wan Guleh.” The detective, it appears, calif d
f und in re a little matter of £2OO worth of jewel-
lery which had mysteriously disappeared from the
residence of Mr. Thomas Alderson, of this city,
about the same time as that gentleman's hopeful
young brother in-law. Master Thomas Rooney, did.
with the customary nonchalance and sang froid of
the heroes of our three-for-a-shilling novels.
Master Rooney observe J. “Oh. it’s you, is it?
Benin'd annoying, this I was just doing a coml
portable read when you distumed me.” On the
ihief-taker becoming more communicative as
to the object of tiis visit. Thomas Rooney
strode the usual three paces to the right,
three paces to the lift, stopped short, and.
striKxng his noble brow, exclaimed: “Ah, ha !
rate frowns on Fernandez Filippo de Froiseant at
last, hut though caitiff slaves Uis body bind, his
Proud haughty soul shall ne er be conquered.”
Ana then, taking a big “chaw ” of taffy, which
tor stomachic reasons he used instead of tobacco,
Master de Froiseant Rooney calmly observed :
iou know why I did it. Because my sister, with
"horn I was staying, accused me of having tam
th * with my little niece. I was innocent, and
th Vr e acc usation preyed on my mind so muon
that l cannot hold myself accountable for my
actions. I was quite beside myself and went to
sister’s drawer and took the jewellery.” Nothing
could exceed the coolness and cunning of this
young scamp. It appears that he knewtnat pawn-
vT!jCrs are uot allowed to take in pledges from
coiidren, and he forged some orders from imagin-
,‘ y .Persons, authorising him to do the delicate
JusineBB of pledging certain articles, The greater
hnr v the stolen jewellery was found upon him,
ana * lt appears that he pawned some in Sydney,
Moik wo di amond pins had also been realised on in
Melbourne. Fernandez Filippo is now in a dun-
cel,» fondly imagining, no doubt, the in-
•ciiBe eagerness with which posterity will devour
““Contentsof the paper-cover novel which will
n?+v?ay chronicle his bold adventures in two cities
‘.rue South. He had all his school books with him
wifk D arrested, but then—breathes there a man
n *”U soul so dead as to study Bain’s Arithmetic in
ureterence to the stirring “ Life of Ned Kelly ? ”
Professor Simon, the phrenologist, is not,
seems, such a curly-tailed comet in the country
~h ee was in the city. Here he was pelted with the
productions of the rose-parterre; there
ini./ 88 , bombarded with specimens of the
mineral world. How is this ?
{ f tt that he puts on a style too “ sumpshus ? ”
or ao they think he is a shade too Ziwmptious ?
troubles which it is—(a vulgar uhraso but
hkndy.) #e on ly to 60t ion bim to introduce a
little story. Long- dgo. ifl the palmy past, when we
shimmered nightly at the thfedtfeg, we wont to see
the Professor. There was with us ftfaothef repre-
sentative of the Fourth Estate—now in fSe la
ebriates Retreat, we believe. When we took our
seats we were joined by a third journalist, who has
since risen to the topmost pinnacle of fame in the
produce-reporting branch of our glorious pro-
fession, and who was, even theD, oppressed with
the idea Of his dawniDg greatness. Well—but we
must first tell you the method of the Professor. It
was Simply to ass a number of persons, male and
femdle, to Pome ufi on the platform and have their
Characters redd, and their abilities assessed—to the
intense delight Of those Who were wi§e enough to
remain in theif seats. The subjects operated on
were requested to walk up and down the platform
two or three times in their natural manner—the
result being, of course, that all of them, as by
instant consent, immediately emancipated them-
selves from their previous peculiarities for that
occasion only, and walked like nothing that wains
on two legs. Their countenances, too, before ex-
pressite of some gleams of intellect, changed into
sodp-llke stolidity—cases of soap without even a
labell Yet,- from these feeble materials the Pro-
fessor boldly evoltred the most majestic conclu-
sions One toan especially* we remember, whose
physiognomy Would hate Stamped him, to any
ordinary intellect, as the proprietor of a rat-pit,
was gravely introduced to the audience as a born
philosopher of the most extraord nary calibre. It
subsequently turned out that he was a cu p-and-ball
tosser when he was not engaged in a nine-pin
alley. And yet, perhaps, the Professor was not so
far out, after all. We cannot think, however, that
he was so happy in the case of another man with a
towering pyramidal forehead, when he said that
that forehead contained more veneration for law,
and reference for reigning authority, than all the
rest of the foreheads on the platform put to-
gether, considering that we had seen with our
own eyes, only the Sunday before, the owner of
that very forehead Creeping out of the back-door
of a hotel with a jug under his coat. Hardly, and -
[And what 1 What in anathema has this got to do
with the story?—Eb. h.] lhestory, then, if you
must have it. It struck our friend, now in spirit-
less seclusion, and ourselves [who seem to be
on the fair way for it I — Ed. B.] that it
would be a good thiDg if a representative of the
Press were to go up with the next lot on the plat-
form and see into the rights of the affair in tt e
interests of the public. It did not, curiously
enough strike us that it would be altogether so
good a thing for either of us to go. One was too
modest (the present writer), the other too famous
already (the gentleman in retirement). So, of
course, upon the third devolved the g ory. And
he was nowise loth: the dauntless density that has
carried him unscathed through the vegetable wit
of many a produce market since then was his
friend in this case. Besides, he was a believer in
the Professor. He considered the character-read-
ing of the Professor genuine. So, nodding to us
IN EXTREMIS.
NEW CHUM (just landed): “FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, SIB, CAN YOU DIRECT ME TO
WHERE I CAN GET A DROP OF GROG?”
with the air of a man whoffl it tfotild not be safb
tor any mam even a Professor, to trifle with, he
stalked Upon the stage like Ajax into the lists,
surveyed the audience for a moment with a stucco
affectation of calm calculated to throw the boys in
the back seats, who could not get at him, into a
state bordering on freDzy: and then, with a grand
acceptation of the littleness of modern life, took a
chair with the rest of the victims. One by one
these unfortunates were fi'ed out, made to go
through their paces, pronounced upon, and shn'
back to their places in the bodJ? Of the hall in a
state of gibbering imbecility. All the time these
mattyrdoms— awlully excruciating fcenes—were
<rping on, the Glory of the Vegetable Market sat
placidly in his seat. We could almost see his lips
moving to this tune; “These were but a poor lot
—wait till he comes to me I” Evidently he expected
the Professor to start with surprise on coming to
him and perhaps even to exclaim with a rapturous
sign, “Ah-h! That brow! Those temples! That
tout ensemble! Here is intellect! for you* gentle-
men! Here is versatility and grace! This 'a a
great journalist, gentlemen; I see it in his eye.
The eye never deceives!'’ But it did not turn out
that way. The Professor, after he had finished
with the others, was about to go on with some
other part of the entertainment, apparently for-
getting that there was yet somebody to deal with.
This was the cruellest cut. However, just in time
the great phrenologist saw his mistake and, turn-
ing round, said in aa impatient way, “Now you,
young fellow, hurry up-can’t keep the audience
waiting for you.” At this we saw the angry Hush
mount ro the highest pinnacles of “ that brow,” but
the Pride of the Pumpkin-stall disdained to make
further sign. Evidently, thought he, he does not
recognise me yet. Therefore he walked out con-
fidently on the stage before the eyes of all, and
up and down it to order. But the same mys-
terious thirst to be unnatural, which had so sud-
denly seized upon the others, seized upon him
also. He walked down the stage like a panto-
mime policeman; he walked up it like a dancing
bear. He pranced like a centaur, and wobbled
like a duck. In the course of that brief, but ever-
memorable parade, he imitated the manner of pro-
gress of everything, except the human form, that
had motion in the heavens above, the earth be-
neath, or the waters under tha earth The
audience were frantic with delight. The Pro-
fessor then stopped him, and looking at him with
one eye, and at the now quietly-e rpectant crowd
with the other, said: —“ Well, I have seen you
walk, I have heard you talk, I have looked at your
head, I have looked at you feet; I would rather
give my opinion of you to your friends. Go I”
And he went. But before he came down we had
iu too much for even us. We met him
though, some time after, deep in aturaip. Among
other by-the-ways, we happened to say “Very
clever man, that Prof essor Simonl ” “He clever
was the reply, “ you know his head I—well, look at
this turnip.” And with these terrible words he
drove his teeth half way through the top of the
bwede, and tore out a piece as large as a man’s fist
We shuddered and thought of. Tgolino a><*i left
This is why we are not so bitter!/ sp because
Professor Simon is not such a curly-tafiefi cornet
in the country as he was in the city.
• • *
“ ?f ,A. G. Taylor is not Premier of N. S.
Wales in' a fsvr years, it will be his own fault,”
says Sir John. Tesb, Taylor, ole fell’—yo': Prem
(yic), we Treasurer (piCf and c’mish’ner audit, old
fell’, hey ?... That's a sad cast of Colonel Jeffries
falling from the cliffs at Coogee, ffs didn’t Enow
the deceased, yet we are very sorr/. The only
gleam of consolation in the matter that ft's find,
indeed, is that there are yet a few more Colonels
left in the American Army Fergy, of Parra-
matta, recently had a leader denouncing Monaco.
This will, doubtless, shut up the Kursaal. 'lhe
question now arises—what’s going to shut up
Fergy? Steak-and-onions is said to be the ODly
th»ng that cm even lure him into temporary
silence—Wein lias been charged with threaten-
ing bis wife in Adelaide. There were “ two gentle-
men ” in the house at the time, but Madame could
not “remeember zare neames.” It appears
that Wein was passive until requested by the
missis to clean the boots. He couldn’t, he
considered, conscientiously go as far as dat
That stupid cad, Kingston, the lawyer who potted
his cabman, has “ gone up for asixer.” He might,
at least, have “potted” somebody else’s cabman.
But, of course, he didn’t mind the risk of being
pitched out on hi< head. For obvious reasons ..
“ Vagabond ” champagned and address-of-wel-
comed at Wentworth. Queer instance of zero-
worship ...They’ve made .Mr Samuel Wilson a
Deputy-Lieutenant of the County of Middlesex.
It ought, we consider, soon to be Henniker’s turn.
What could they make Henniker, now? Some-
thing in which he would be safe both from the
sneer of the envious and the boot of the indig-
nant, let us hope. Something out of reach of
harm. High up. But the platform we are tbiDk-
iug of is already fully occupied. Do you “drop?”
“Joe,” the nigger of the Pollard Kid Co., has
been discovered dead on the Glenelg Beach.
“ What has hurt you ?” cried the policeman who
caught him as he fell. “ iaafore,” gasped Joe;
and he died.
* * *
The remains of General Todlebenare to be
transported from Riga to Sebastopol. The General
wished to be laid to rest with the officers and
soldiers who fell during the siege of that fortress
in the Crimean War ...The Prince of Wale 3 will
not only be present, but will take an active part in
the grand autumn manoe u res of the German
Army. He will form part of the immediate staff
of Field-Marshal Von Moitke, who will direct in
person the chief command of the manoeuvres
Since last year the Prince of Wales has been
gazetted a Prussian Field-Marshal. This is Bis
marck’s little joke ...The Vicar of Barking, Eng,
refused to bury a child which had died unbap-
tised; and he had the churchyard gates closed in
the middle of the service which the parents pro-
Mded sbr thfemselVes. “ Suffer little children,” &c...
oh§ bf th« many, sweetheatts of the great Napo-
leon has just died I On lith August the funeral of
Madame de Courvoisin, Priucesse d© Palm, took
place at Nogent-sur-Marne. Decea3ed, who was
91 years of age, was the daughter of the famous
Madame de Courvoisin, lady of honour to Marie
Antoinette. The Princess herse.f was one of the
most brilliant ornaments of the court of Napoleon
I, who became enamoured »f her. Madame oe
CourVoiflin literally squandered her meney in mis-
dlretited dhatityi and died poor. The funeral cere-
mony was thinly attended.
Atarecentmeeting, “General” Boothsaid
that “ salvation, the remedy for all the wants, woes,
and miseries of the human race, was just as good
to look at in a red jersey as in a black coat-just as
good with a brais band as with a fine organ—just
as good with a lively as with a funereal tune. The
Salvation Arm.y had bhen more blessed by God
that! othbi' tbllgiouS dtgahlZationß for hundreds of
years.” Well, supposing that salvation, in the
“General's” own words, is as good in one coat as
in another, where is the necessity for choosing the
red one, unless for the purpose of startling and
offending those who prefer the black ?
Bennet Burleigh, the war correspondent,
in his book on desert warfare, when referring to
the Soudan campaign, comments upon the poor
quality of tho steel wrought into cutlasses and
bayonets for the soldiers. “If these weapons
(says he) touched a bone, they beDt like hoop-iron,
without piercing the body of the Arabs. Their
spears and swords, sharp as razors, cut, as I saw
scores of them do, through bone, sinew, and every
obstacle, without turning the edge of the weapon. ’
But then the Arabs are not supplied with weapons
by an army contractor. When they reach the
pitch of civilization which the possession of army
contractors supplies, they too will have hoop-iron
cutlasses, and shoddy uniforms, and all the rest of
those military luxuries with which Tommy Atkins
is so painfully familiar. >
For some time past we have regularly for-
warded copies of The Bulletin to the Benevolent
Asylum, Dunwieh, Queensland, in the hope that
wo were thereby doing some little good in the way
of alleviating tne sorrows of those suffering from
the greatest of all afflictions. That our idea was
sound m<y be seen by a sentence from a letter
written by one of the patients, which gays: “Ail
in our ward are totally blind, and the only thing
that brings a little life into us is to listen to the
paper which is read to us every morning.” Com-
plaint is now made, however, that of late the
paper has never reached the blind ward. We can
oniv say that it has been sent as usual, addressed
to the librarian, but marked “for the use of the
inmates;” and if any of the officials connected
with the establishment are appropriating it, they
are committing an act of gross injustice to the
unfortunates under their care, and also to our-
selves. Dicttm sapuntt gat est—or, in other words,
“nuff sec},”


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
W.
Sydney
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove’s Royal
Comic Opora Company.
ESTRELLA ESTRELLA ESTRELLA
ESTRELLA ESTRELLA ESTRELLA,
Not only a Great Success, but a Triumph.
The music pronounced by all tp be superior to any
yet written for comic opera.
A REALLY GREAT CAST OF CHARACTERS.
The threo sets in the opera, by John Hennings,
are certainly the tinest pictures ever produced in
Sydney in one work.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 35.; Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
ERA
H
USE
... e. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of
RIGN O L D and ALLIS ON.
Acting Manager t •• Monty Browne.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY.
MISS DE GREY,
supported by Mrs. Chippendale and Miss De Grey’s
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY,
will repeat their GREAT SUCCESS,
MOTHS MOTHS MOTHS
MOTHS MOTHS MOTHS.
Business Manager) for Miss I Mr. A. L. Cunard.
Stage Manager (De Grey f Mr. T. Lingnam.
Prioes as usual. Box plan at Huenerbein’s, 411
George-street.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
2tsth WEEK. 26th WEEK.
Unparalleled Success.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIKARDS.
Glorious Success of BETSY S BEAUX.
Friday Night, Grand Complimentary Benefit tcn-
nered to W. Horace Bent.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Paling’s, where
Pianos for this entertainment are supplied.
u
N
N
FHUF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.o.
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
snring floor, &o. No decorations required.
Cheap Gas for every
Country Town.
There is no doubting the fact that scienoe has
completely mastered the work of producing gas
without the use of coals. And it produces gas
brighter, cleaner, and for inland towns cheaper
and safer, than the ordinary coal gas; so that the
value of this practical discovery to country peoplo
is very great. The new patent, which has been
strongly and unanimously recommended, is the
Needles Patent, whiob can be applied so as to
meet the requirements of only a small bouse, or
enlarged to meet the wants of a town. For the in-
troduction of this splendid invention the Austra-
lian public are indebted to Messrs. H. T. Smith and
Co., 43 Sussex-street, Sydney. The Needles Patent
has been submitted to every kind of test, and is
now in use in several large hotels, halls, private
mansions. &c., all over the Australian colonies, ihe
universal experience being one of extreme satis-
faction. In and about the suburbs of Sydney,
there are several large private houses equipped
with the Needles Patent in preference to the coal.
The whole thing is very inexpensive, and in opera-
tion is far cheaper with regard to illuminating
power than kerosene, with none of its disagree-
able odours and none of its risks. When fixed in
position (the whole thing is portable), the gas
supply can be arranged by a boy; there is no wear
or tear—all that is required is a supply of the in-
gredient or gasoline which stands at from 2s. 6d to
is. per gallon. The gasoline at 2s. 6d. is for the
Needles Patents. There is not a resident in the in-
terior who once seeing the whole thing at work
would not immediately become a purchaser.
Messrs. Smith and Co. have just imported a small,
effective and cheap gas engine, of 2-man power and
upwards, which they place free on board train or
steamer, with all gas-making apparatus, for £BO.
This engine will make its own gas, drive a printing
press, lathe, cornsheller, or haycutter, sausage
machine, Ac, and provide enough gas for 500 lights.
The cost of production of gas in under 7s. <sd. per
100) ft. Hand-power g#s apparatus to provide 20
or 500 lights are at the one price£2supwards. Here
is a testimonial from a well-known Sydney man
who preferred the Needles Gas to any other
Botany, July 25,1884.
Messrs. H. T. Smith and Co.,
43 Sussex-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,— With reference to your memo, re
the “Needles” Gas Apparatus, I beg to say that,
having had it in constant use for the last four
years, I have found it all that can be desired in the
wav of a brilliant clear light, free from all noxious
and offensive smells; and the surprisingly easy
mode of manufacture makes it a most valuable
adjunct. I have upwards of 200 lights, and since
you attached the small gas-engine it is so simple
that anyone can start the engine when lighting up,
and make the gas as it is used. Can be seen at
work, and burning any evening at Sir Joseph
Banks Hotel, Botany.—Yours truly,
FRANK SMITH.
At the Mudgee railway celebration, the banquet
hall and ball-room were brilliantly lighted by the
Needles Patent Gas, the work being superintended
by Mr. H. T. Smith himself. The results were per-
fectly astonishing.— Argus.
WABTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
Board of technical education of
NEW SOUTH WALES.
SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE.
CLASSES at Sydney Mechanics’ School of Arts, in
Pitt-street, Technical Institute in Sussex-
street. the Public School in Castlereagh-street,
and No. <54 Royal Arcade, Pitt-street:—
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.
Mr. It. W. EMERSON M’IVOR, F.C.S., F.1.C.,
Instructor.
Agriculture—Mr. R. w. Emerson M’lvor. Botany
—Mr. T. Whitelegge.
DEPARTMENT OF APPL T ED MECHANICS.
Mr. W. H. WARREN, A.M.1.C.E., Instructor.
Applied Mechanics (including Mechanical Drawing)
—Mr. W. H. Warren. Plumbing—Mr. Donald
Mackenzie. Naval Architecture—Mr. John
Hyland. Metal Plate Working—Mr. William
Walker.
DEPARTMENT OF ARCHITECTURE,
Mr. J. F. HENNEBSY, Instructor.
Architecture—Mr. J. F. Hennessy. Carpentry and
Joinery-Mr. John Gardiner. Bricklaying-r-
Mr. J. Bustard. Masonry—Mr. J. Howie. Cabi-
net MakiDg— Mr. C. M. Smithson. Carriage
Building—Mr. J. J. North.
DEPARTMENT OF ART.
Mr. LUCIEN HENRY, Instructor.
Freehand Drawing, Geometry, Perspective, and
Modelling-Mr. Lucien Henry. Wood Carving
—Mr, A. Murray. House Painting and Decora-
ting—Mr. P. W. Johnson.
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY.
Mr. W. A. DIXON, F.C.8., F.1.C., Instructor.
Practical Chemistry and Iheoretical Chemistry—
Mr. W. A. Dixon.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCIAL ECONOMY.
Mr. A. ADAMS, Instructor.
Commercial Class (Writing, Arithmetic, &c.)-Mr.
A. Adams. Bookkeeping—Mr. R. 8. Cannon.
Phonography—Mr. H. Graham. Actuarial
Science—Mr. D. Garmenl. German—Mr. A.
Erythropel. French —Mr. R. Curtis Latin
Mr. G. E. Rich, B.A. Constitutional History—
Mr. W. P. Culler, M.A.
DEPARTMENT OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY.
Mrs. A. FAWCETT STORY.
Domestic Economy and Cookery—Mrs. Story.
DEPARTMENT OF GEOLOGY, MINERALOGY
AND MINING.
Mr. S. HERBERT COX, F.G.S., F.C.S., Instructor.
Geology and Mineralogy—Mr. S. H. Cox.
DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS.
Mr. J. KIN LOCH, M.A., Instructor.
Mathematics, Geometry and Algebra, Trigonome-
try, Conic Sections, and Mechanics—Mr. J. Kin-
loch. Navigation—Capt. Everill.
DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC.
Mr. J. ASHCROFT EDWARDS, Instructor.
Music and Class Singing—Mr. J. Ashcroft Edwards,
DEPARTMENT OF ELOCUTION.
Mr. JOHN CONNERY, Instructor.
Elocution—Mr. John Connery.
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY.
Mr. F. WRIGHT, M.P.S., Instructor.
Materia Mediea and Pharmacy—Mr. F. Wright.
Anatomy and Physiology—Dr. Anderson Stuart
(Lecturer).
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS.
Dr. E. H. RKNNIE, Instructor.
Physics-Dr. E. H. Rennie. Electrioitv (Practical)—
Mr. T. E. Hewett. Telegraphy—Mr. T. E.
Hewett.
FEES, at the rate of <sd. per Lesson for Seniors
and 3d. per Lesson for Juniors. The following re-
ductions are made to Btudents attending several
Classes, and more than one night weekly.
IDB lUUU W lug ruv ObO Viaoocc ai o tuw
lege Rooms by permission of the Board:—Drawing
and Painting. (Ladies)—Mrs. Phillips and Miss
Higginbotham. Drawing and Paintißg-Mr. A.
Tiscnbauer. Drawing and Painting—Mr. A. D.
Riley. Drawing and Painting—Mr. L. Henry.
Perspective. (Ladies)—Miss Jessie A. Green.
Chemistry—Mr. W. A. Dixon, F.C.S., F.I.C. Theory
of Music. (Ladies)—Miss Biddell. Elocution and
Voice Building. (Ladies)—Miss Lydia Hastings.
Law—Mr. R. M. Sly, LL D. University Matricula-
tion Class—Mr. G. E. Rich, B.A. Cookery—Mrs.
Story.
FREE POPULAR LECTURES on TECHNICAL,
SCIENCE, and ART SUBJECTS are delivered
in the Technical College Hall, at the Sydney
Mechanics’ School of Arts, on Tuesday, Wed-
nesday, Thursday, and Friday, at 3 p.m.
THE FOURTH QUARTER WILL BEGIN ON
Ist OCTOBER.
The Board will endeavour to form Classes in
Other Subjects on the application of twelve in-
tending Students, and on payment of the fees.
Certificates of Efficiency will be granted at the
Annual Examination in December.
Further information may be obtained from
either the Secretary or the Registrar of the Tech-
nical College, at the Sydney Mechanics’ School of
Arts, Pitt-street.
EDWARD DOWLING.
Secretary to Board of Technical Education.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT!
GENT.’S 50, Is. 6d.; 100, 28. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 2a. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d. ; 250, os. 6d. ; 500, 10«. ; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
l£§f" Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TOE HI!CO.,
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Victoria Mtm Folisb!
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
The above being a genuine preparation, it recom-
mends itself.
TRY IT.
The fresh food and ice company
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT '
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c. f with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
The Yankee Rubber Baby.
£
GOES in the waistcoat
pocket, yet can he in-
stantly enlarged to
LIFE SIZE,
resembling life, for like the
real article it coos at plea-
sure, yet screams awfully
if smacked. Experienced
fathers are deceived by
these laughter-producing
infants, and no home can be
a really happy one without
their cheering presence.
Price, by post to any
address, Is. 6d.
HORTON ami CO.,
BOX 641 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SWEEP
“ACHILLE J3J*
MELBOURNE CUP.
gasr° 25,000 Members, at 10s.
First £3OOO
Second 2000
Third 1000
Btarters and Non-Starters (divide) 3000
25 Cash Prizes, £lOO each 2500
Address: Walter, Montgomery, Chancery Lane
Melbourne.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE Of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Oeeices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED.
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet or Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
S
PECIAL NOTICE-ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the enly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission. 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults.
2d.; 100 tickets, 215.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 21s.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 13 hours, 20th August
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
E BLACKBURN, Wrestler, a letter for you
• at this office-
WANTED an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
Engraving Business. Premium required.
Apply at this Office.
MEMO, to you from
in Pitt-i, Sydney
To Residents in the Country.
You cannot do better than send down to us for Goods
whenever you want something nice and tasty, different
from what you can get in the country stores.
1J39- Send down to us for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Guide, and Prices.
w You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hordern Brothers,
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned 'Warmoll.
;SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAM PTON & BRUCE
197 PITT STREET.
o
m
a
fi
m
BOX,® AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
■F all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
' MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed
KIRK}®, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agesit.luT Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane and Adelaide:


THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist’s art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and itis more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severest tests. Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal in design and
general appearance to those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe of
the Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that wo do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals*
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the s tor line - gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trad? become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness
in trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt ef
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured—we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
N.B —We find that, through an error on the part
of the manufacturers, we are overstocked with
Brooches, and for the purpose of making a rapid
clearance of that line of Goods, we will send to
any customer (post free, if at a distance) on receipt
of Five Shillings (55.), a really exquisite Oriental
Gold Brooch, equal in design, finish, and appear-
ance to a Five Guinea Brooch of the sterling metal.
This offer holds good for a few weeks only, and is
made as much for the purpose of advertising our
Oriental Jewellery by sample as for any other
reason ; for the Brooches will keep, and they are
of the latest design. “To see is to want, is a
saying so applicable to our goods, that it pays us,
in the long run, to forward to any person a sample
Brooch at cost price. Examine our catalogue, and
write to us or call on us for what you may desire.
Remember the Address :
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE EIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and taßsels, 15s ,30s.,and25s. each;
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 55., 65., 7s. 6d.,
Bs., Bs. 6d., 95., and 10s a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. 6d. to 80s.; Ladies’ very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2los. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
78. to 15s. a pair ; Ladies’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, 15s. to 30s ; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaines, 30s. each ; Ladies’
choice Lockets and NeckletP, 17s. 6d., 20s , 225.
6d., 255., 275. 6d., 305., 355., and 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 15s , 205., and 30s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Rings, from 2s 6d. to Bs. 6d. eaeh; Solid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Qent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £2 5 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tasseils £2 15 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 0 6
fSF" These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert £4 5 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 6 0
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £5 5 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 a 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 6
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of ale the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost leas than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 6s. 6d„
78. 6d.. Bs. 6d, and 10s. each; Gents’ Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and Kuby Rings, 7s. 6d.
and Bs. 6d. each; Gents Oriental Gold Rings,
plain half, round buckle, flat broad buckle, en-
graved, good luck rings, &c., &c., from ss. to
8s 6d. each; Gent’s richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 75., 7s. 6d., Bs.,
Bs. 6d., 9s , 10s., and 12s. 6d. per set; Same as
above, only half sets, 35., 45., and ss. per set;
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s, per set; Gent’s elegant Seals, real
stones, 7s. 6d., Bs,, 95., lOs., and 12s. 6d. each;
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs.,
10s., and 12s. 6d. each; Gents’ Oriental Gold Al-
berts. handsome patterns, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest Amerioan Rolled Gold Al-
berts, made specially to our order, 17s. 6d., 205.,
255., and 3Cs. each.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—" Estrella ” p. 8.
Opera House— 1 “ Moths” ib.
gaiety Theatre—" Bit of Blue Ribbon ” ib.
Academy of Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
Belmore Park—Woodyear’s Circus ib.
With a melting modestly characteristic of
all that is theatrical, Mr. Luscombe Searelle’s
“Estrella”—produced at the Theatre Royal on
Saturday last, in the presence of a gigantic audi-
ence—was styled in the advertis jtnents “ the most
successful comic opera of the time.” We sampled
this work of Mr. Searelle's with more, perhaps,
than our usual care—partly because we wished to
behold “the most successful comic opera of the
time,” and partly because we burned with anxiety
to hang upon the dulcet notes of Signor Carlo
Modini, who had “just arrived from Italy ” under
—we quote the play-bill—arrangement (sic) to
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, and Musgrove, and
who had, so to speak, the scent of his native maca-
roni still upon him.
* • •
“Estrella,” as we have it, so captivated
Mr. Garner when scintillating in “ the great city,”
that he purchased (presumedly for millions) the
Australian right of that production; and, not
content with this brilliant managerial feat, char-
tered the gifted composer of the work to travel
hither and conduct it. So far as wo are concerned,
we are very glad to see Mr. Luscombe Searelle:
for one reason, because we are glad to see nearly
everybody (such is the largeness of our heart), ex-
cepting, perhaps, the party who calls for the water-
rate; but chiefly, we really think, because he is
the part author and the whole composer of “ the
most successful comic opera of the time.” It had
been thought by many that Mr. Garner would
have secured the right of such inferior produc-
tions as “ lolanthe,” for instance, or the “Princess
Ida;” but we are convinced all thinking persons
will agree with us when we state that it would
have been barely possible for even so experienced
a judge of the works of modern maestri to have
secured for a gushingly grateful country more
than “the most successful comic opera of the
time.”
• • •
“Estrella,” to us, and we say this apolo-
geticaliy, is strangely suggestive of hash, and the
plays of Walter Reynolds. It reminds us—and not
altogether unpleasantly, mind you—of so many
things. And this may be said equally of the plot
and of the music score. The opera is indeed a
musical mosaic, not unskilfully constructed, of
11 Barbe Bleue,” “ Girofld,” “ Tambour Major,”
"Olivette,” and “ Madame Favart.” Mr. Walter
Parke was, we believe, ehietly known to fame
(prior to the writing of “ Estrella ”) through be-
ing part author of “Les Manteaux Noirs. But
the fierce thirst for glory was, apparently, upon
him, and his fame has, as our readers, are now
aware, culminated in evolving the libretto of “the
most successful comic opera of the time.” This
noble work (conducted by the composer) was first
produced with Camille Dubois—that giddy divorce
-in the title role, at the Novelty Theatre, London.
The plot of “ Estrella ” has been so abundantly set
forth in the Sydney Morning Herald—a journal,
we believe, published somewhere in the neighbour-
hood of this office—that it does not behove us so
much to enlarge upon the fable as to analyse its
interpretation. We must not invent facts with
regard to this piece—we must simply chronicle
circumstances—but, we think, it will be permitted
to us to state that had the trifling works quoted
above never have been written, Mr. Walter Parte
would not, in all probability, have grown big with
and been delivered of “ Estrella.” The cast of the
piece is a small one, and whimsically it may be
given as follows:
Count Pomposi di Yesuvio, a Vene-
tian General betrothed to Estreila
: Capitaine de Merimac Kelly
Phylloxera, an impoverished Vine-
grower, father of Estrella: Rocoo J. Wallace
The Doge of Venice, a model of jus-
tice and dignity: Le Roi Bobeche P. Day
Signor Lorenzo, a young advocate
in lovewith Estreila: Prince Fri-
tellini Carlo Modini
Giovanni Tommaso, major-domo to
the Count: Coquelicot J. Forde
Notary: Gobo W. Forde
Estrella: Olivette Nellie Stewart
Tartarella, mother to Estrella, a
strong-minded woman : Madame
Lambertucchio Miss Santley
nrigetta, companion to Estrella, in
love with the Count: Fiametta F. Liddiard
The pirates, etc., by the Corsairs from “GiroflA”
and the “ Conspirators' Chorus.”
* * *
But, although the family likeness common
to all comic operas of recent date is thus recognis-
able, the arrangement of the plot is not without a
certain freshness. If Mr. Walter Parke has stolen,
JJ® PJ 8 stolen apDreciatively; and a comic opera
winch combines the best effects and characters of
those we have mentioned with equally felicitous
teatures of its own, could scarcely tail to have
r,. ac ti.ons. Mr. Searelle, too, has done much to
put a distinct colour upon the libretto. His muse
~ everywhere melodious and in several move-
ments a distinct originality of theme is evolved,
me orchestration, also, is skilful and highlv effec-
tive. in the production of his opera, Mr. Searelle
» extremely fortunately circumstancad He has
uaa neaps of money spent upon him, and is fairly
mjPPy in his cast—the low comedy element being
Phenomenally strong. And, what is still more in
Fcf .your, consists in the fact that the role of
mstrella (though somewhat sketchy and indefinite
dramatic conception) appears to suit Miss
fn. e Stewart better than anything she has done
or some time; and certainly better than any of
loose parts into which sh<i has been pitchforked
, y mdulgent management, only to find herself
em hopelessly and painfully overweighted.
cmc 38 ’ however, Miss Btewart’s unwonted suc-
tk7 on this occasion was in some measure due to
nam g ory she felt at being entrusted with the
atne-part in the “ most successful comic opera of
R „® bme. ’ Mr. Searelle has provided her with
s delightfully melodious airs, and her share in
,„; ®ral duets with Signor Modini is equally feliei-
strni B ° n & ia the last act is a very happy
r a m> and when we heard it was strenuously en-
,.(lffd- A graceful flute obligato is written to ac-
several of Estrella's ballads, and was
strnment y piayed by tbe performer on that in-
m m -
Returning to the cast, the chief interest
the first nighters certainly centered in
miio» r * rl ° M °dini, who had travelled some 15,000
will ho create the port of Signor Lorenzo. It
Ma r H„ re membered that the reason Miss Amelia
, n ®vcr came out was because she couldn’t
Modini ■ *t the fates seem to have treated Signor
tain i „ ln a far more lenient manner. He has cer-
vocai ou t—though, if we are to judge by his
abnnf „ rtormailce 011 Saturday, his singing out is
He m.?, Q a par - wi th that of Miss Amelia Martin
his V(vin PoBBi bly, however, have left a portion of
the Si, 6a t Milan—in that case, we recommend
sent nf,o 0r t 0 get the balance of his vocal organ
Signor « er -8 a shoe-trunk without delay. The
we ho„ Bpikes ze Ongleesh ”as well as any Italian
As Conn* T? ver heard Verdi alone excepted.
•Host of L Pom P°3i, Mr. Kelly was fairly amusing;
of hia e music, too, being within the compass
ev er thl aer hmited ra nge. Unquestionably, how-
Mr. Phiii, 8^ ccesB of the evening was achieved by
was a hir,Ki a 7’ whose impersonation of the Doge
being 'n\?{* y humorous effort, the representation
that mlt? CoDB >stent in its every phase. To say
case»«miT^ y was funny is to put the facts of the
a ClontoAK ly 88 when the S.M. Mkral" describes
act, °raie as “ unbecoming.” In the last
the point!'The T>oge, and, it must be owned,
m >ghtv~L° r • e dialogue, kept the audience in a
of evnio3 e mightalmost say dynamity—condition
h raia a p B ' vepe ee- We don’t remember to have
at tendpd on roar 80 much and so often since we
Bom e 8 hon hunt in South Africa. Perhaps
a hon don’t understand the points of
the They are very simple. As soon
uon appears, you break away for
the nearest tree. When you have got as near
the top as possible, the Jions form a circle round
the tree, and every time you move —if its only
your eyebrows—they applaud you vociferously.
That’s just how the Theatre Royal audience be-
haved to Mr. Day, only when he tumbled down
they didn’t eat him, although they opened their
mouths quite wide enough. Now, when we
tumbled down off our tree, the lions ate us up at
once, or we wouldn’t have survived to tell the
story.
• • •
Mr. Wallace worked very hard to make
something out of Phylloxera; and it is but fair to
set down that his clowning was provocative of
some merriment. But everything Mr. John Wal-
lace has done in this piece, he has done in other
pieces that have preceded it; and perhaps that is
the reason why his most outrageous efforts in
dance and by-play, conjured up within our souls
feelings of undiluted melancholy. Mr. John Ford
helped along with a major-domo's part; and a Mr.
W. Ford extracted some fun out of a hot very
notable notary. A “Miss Santley’' (whoever she
may be) was boisterous as a shrewish mother, but
appeared to appeal for favour almost exclusively
to the groundlings. Miss Fanny Liddiard, in this
opera, is awarded a shadowy part, labelled “ Bri-
getta, companion to Estrella;” but her business
is so sketchy and vague in its conception by
Mr. Parke that the young lady has no chance
whatever of making a hit, though she looks charm-
ing as usual, and enslaves an avant scene box full
of whiskers, as is her nightly wont.
* * *
The scenery is pretty, and, in fact, the
staging of the piece is 'altogether admirable, and
each time the curtain rose on a fresh set the
audience clamoured for Mr. Hennings with as
much vigour as was evinced on an historical
occasion, when an artist named Barabbas
was desired by an appreciative multitude.
On the first night it is evident that some mis-
creant must have been playing larks with the pro-
perty-man’s ball of twine, for all of a sudden all
the gondolas sank with singular unanimity to the
bottom of the Adriatic. They, however, bobbed
up serenely a few minutes later, though there was
an übiquitousness (can you say this ?) about the
craft that was distressing to the soul of the lover
of the unities. The house was crowded. We could
have wished, however, that a gentleman at the
back of us could have found it convenient to leave
his hiccup behind him at the races.
* * *
“ Estrella ” has distinctly “ caught on,”
and has run to crowded and hilarious houses so
far. Consequently, it is to run the remaining three
weeks of the opera season.
** * *
It must have been rather disappointing to
Mr. D’Orsay Ogden, after engaging “a grand
chorus of forty voices” (you will notice that a
theatre chorus always consists of “forty voices!”
—this by the way) to have to represent his “ great
moral lesson” at the Gaiety, “A Bit of Blue
Ribbon,” in the presence of a slender audience.
And the more so as Mr. Ogden had secured the ser-
vices of “that talented young actor. Mr. Fred.
Meredith,” in addition to which Miss Ellen Fergus
Ogden was announced to make in this “ farciful
(sic), sensational, temperance drama,” her rttbut in
Sydney. But, as the old lady says in the novel,
We cannot toujours have what we voulez.” Mr.
Ogden, doubtless, thinks it is very hard that the
people won’t come to see him get very drunk in
the first act, and become impossibly sober in the
third, and to listen to Salvation Army hymns with-
out the humorous addition of the big drum obliga-
to; but it has probably not occurred to that
gentleman that the play-going public has been
over-dosed with “ moral lessons ” of late, and that
but little sympathy now remains for the man who
gets drunk at the expense of his friends one day
and ‘ whips the cat ” the next at his own.
* * *
“Hair” Bandmann dosed us with this kind
of drama until we wished him more violently dead
than usual, though “The Woman of the People”
had, putting aside its clap-trap, many things to
recommend it. The acting of the company was,
with a few exceptions, first-class, though, cer-
tainly, Daniel was without the advantage of having
specially engaged that talented young actor, Mr.
Fred Meredith.” We thought when the greatest
actor in the world shook the dust off his buskins,
when leaving this city “for ever,” that we were
free from a further infliction of the same class of
dramatic jumble; but we were doomed to be de-
ceived. Hardly were we lulled into forgetfulness
of the struggles of “Murry” and “Baretrong,”
hardly had we pitched with anathemas into the
abyss of forgetfulness ail recollection of the wiles
of “Rummy” and the villainy of “ Happyany,”
than Arthur Vivian swoops down upon us and
resurrects all these semi-forgotten phantoms.
Once again have we to sit out “The Woman of the
Stokehole” (or whatever it is), and behold the
“talented young American actress” (raised in
Wellington), Miss Helen—no Nellies, mind you, in
“ A Great Moral Lesson!!”—moan as Marie, Arthur
Vivian writhe as R<smy, and tho “talented young
actor” (now specially engaged), “Mr. Fred. Mere-
dith,” bore you as Bertrand; and notwithstanding
that this gorgeous performance was promptly
whistled away into the provinces by an indignant
public, Mr. Ogden beards us once again with a
similar entertainment,
* * *
“ A Bit of Blue Ribbon ” is an “ agony ”
play of the most advanced description, and the
management, doubtless, in producing it (and going
to the length of “ specially engaging that talented
young actor, Mr. Fred. Meredith ”) contemplated
catching the Temperance portion of the populace.
Mr. Ogden, however, reckoned (in a double sense)
without his host, not considering, possibly in his
philanthropical desire to morally instruct the
people, that there is implanted in the bieasts of
the teetotallers a dogged (and virtuous) aversion
to “parting their ochre” at the pay-hole. The
pecuniary success, therefore, of Mr. Ogdon’s ven-
ture is so far considerably hampered by limits, and
we sincerely wish he had “put up the stuff”
for something of a more promising description.
From the shortness of its cast, “ A (Bit of Blue
Ribbon” has evidently been compiled for the
“ road a conjecture which causes us to heartily
pray that it may take to the road as soon as pos-
sible—and get lost. But, though the piece is not cal-
culated to attraot the 3d. drink crowd there is much
merit in some of the acting—D’Orsay Ogden dis-
playing good colour in ihis interpretation of
Donald M'Gregor, who is our old friend Baretrong
feebly disguised as a Scotchman. Of Mrs. Ellen
F. Ogden we must also say many good things, that
lady evincing histrionic ability of a very high
order. It seems a pity, indeed, that, considering
how hard up the Australian stage is for “ leading
ladies,” Mrs. O. does not go into stock, and show
them what she can do in a sensible piece and a big
theatre.
* * *
We see that the company produce “ Oliver
Twist” next Saturday, in which D’Orsay Ogden
has made a great hit as Fagin. Mrs. O. is sure to
be good as Nancy; and it is a blood-curdling busi-
ness. The absence, in this drama, of the chorus of
40 voices will, doubtless, prove an additional at-
traction. We wondpr, by the way, who will repre-
sent that good boy Oliver, who was a “ prig ” in
one sense but not in another.
* * *
It seems that Dan Barry’s company was in
Grenfell lately, and from Grenfell “ K.P.” sends us
the following epigram, in which E.P. is decidedly
“ In days of trouble many years ago.
When Saxon soil was trod by Norman foe,
The mace, the club, and dull two-handled sword
Lay prone the enemy upon the sward:
But gentler grown, in this more pliant age,
We fight our battles now upon the stage—
And, when we would poetic justice deal.
We kill the Norman now with Nita Steele.”
Nita Steele and Norman are members of Dan’s
company, and play Florence O’Carolan and J. E.
Redmond, M.P., respectively, in “C. S. Parnell’s
patriotic drama, ‘Shamrock Green.’” Oh, and to
answer a correspondent on a theatrical matter, wo
may 6tate that the last we heard of the Lyons
Toimst Party they were in India, and that Miss
Nina Tulloch was certainly of the company. And,
o wind up, b r s ure and don’t forget that to-morrow
(Friday) night is Billy Bent’s “ ben.”—this would
make an attractive “streamer.” William Horace
works hard for the public, and has pleasantly
fooled you to the top of himself for many a long
year. All the available talent is going to appear
for Billy, so we hope there will be a big roll up.
In three months William goes to “ Murker,” when
doubtless he will be found frequently “on the
corner.” Oh, and talking of America, the N.Y.
Herald says that Mary Anderson is going to join
the Carmelite nuns. But, enough of Mary for the
nuns—we mean, nonce. Our troubles, anyway.
** * *
Madame Woodyear’s Equesquiriculum has
—this is a sporting age, confound it I—become
well-set” in Belmore Park; and consequently
Madame (bless her!) is having a good innings. She
is, therefore, not likely (to continue in this con-
temptible style) to be “stumped ” at an early date.
Since last week the redoubtable Robert Taylor has
taken the management, and now the ring presents
a truly kaleidoscopic appearance. Mr. T. wears a
magnificent uniform, with brilliant blue facings,
and the biggest streak of bullion down the side of
ms pants that his military tailor could fix there.
He is gilt-buttoned, be-jewelled, and hair-oiled to
that extent that the moment he enters every boy
present mentally vows that he will burgle the gold-
embroidery shop and be a circus-director—or die.
Not to be beaten by this gorgeous apparition, Pro-
fessor Sylvester dons a rig whioh would cast that
of a Cent-garde into the shade. The distinguishing
colour of his lappels is pink, and in the matter of
golden lacs he is a perfect glow-worm. To gaze
upon the sheen of his white waistcoat is “ alone
worth the price of admission; ” and there is a
whisper in equestrian circles that several Circas-
sian slaves are employed prior to his retiring to
rest, putting his beard in curl-paper.
• • *
The Donald Dinnie week concluded on
Monday night; and we are rather glad of this, be-
cause Donald is rather a bore, and painfully sug-
gestive, from his costume, of the snuff-shop. The
effect of Donald’s performance on us is to
lash us into a paroxysm of fury. For all we
care, Donald Dinnie’s 5001 b. dumb-bell might
be stuffed with sawdust; and while he is exerting
himself with his Brobdignagian hammer, we al-
ways discover ourselves musingly wishing that he
would swallow it, take a pinch of snuff, and ex-
Sire. On Monday night Donald marched in about
alf-past eight, preceded by a piper and followed
by two other chieftains, who had apparently de-
serted their pedestals under cover of the darkness.
Dinnie is a fine-looking giant—being, in fact, a
man of remarkable thighs; and this may account,
in some degree, for his popularity with the ladies!
Popularity with the ladies, by the bye, when
partaken of in moderation, is well enough.
The Rum says: “Hanlan’s advice to all who
wish to excel in athletic sports is, ‘ Keep
away from intoxicating liquors and tobacco.’ ”
This makes us inclined to ask, with the disap-
pointed opera bouffe duchess, “Is that all?”
Dinnie, however, gives you the idea of a man who
takes very great care of himself; and it is reported
that where he boards they always keep the caul-
dron on, and have a sheep ready to drop in as occa-
sion may require.
• • •
P : The other portion of the performance is
of a high-class character, the bamboo business of
Cooma Kitchi beingincomprehensiole. One of the
most entertaining features, though, is the band,
who give you “ Annie Laurie ” in a succession of
demonsic blasts nightly, looking aloft in their red
coats like avenging demons—which, indeed, they
are. The Equesquiriculum moves into the suburbs
shortly, but, prior to its departure, Madame is
going to produce “ The Liverpool Steeplechase ”
on a scale of magnificence (sans doute) never be-
fore attempted. No one really should neglect to
go to the Circus while it is still here—if only for
this reason : one of their principal performers is
a prince in his own country, and his name is
Bungeroo.
** * *
Last week we had “Moths,” by Leopold
Jordon, at the Gaiety. This week we have “ Moths,”
by H. Hamilton, Esq., at the Opera House. In
fact, the city stands a fair chance of being pretty
well supplied with moths before the present season
is over. We went to the Opera House on Monday
night, for we had seen Leopold Jordan’s adapta-
tion of the famous novel, aad liked it. Of course,
we wanted to see what a man like Hamilton could
do that Leopold had not done, Leopold assured us
that he could prove his adaptation was made be-
fore Hamilton’s. We believe this. They are not a
bit alike—not even a little bit. One thing is very
evident, also, which is that neither has stolen from
tne other. Leopold wouldn’t “ cadge,” of course;
but there’s no telling what Hamilton might
have done had he been given a chance to lay ruth-
less hands upon the work of Leopold. Had he
been an editor, now but, no; we will not call up
reminiscences of Spring poetry and the like, al-
though it is true that a waste-basket has its uses.Z
* * *
Miss de Grey Iplayed the heroine, Vere
Herbert. For this the author ought to thank her,
for she played it admirably and threw an
amount of feeling into the lines that fairly chained
and riveted the audience to her. We have not
always been exactly well pleased with Miss de
Grey’s acting, but as Yere Herbert she has our
undivided admiration. And let us tell you, too,
that this is the only character in which she has
looked really beautiful. She has looked pretty
enough in others, but as Vere she is simply beauti-
ful. We say this “ without fear of punishment or
hope of reward.” We’ve been attending the Free-
thought Convention, If you find any of our ideas
a little loose and wobbling, you’ll know what to
lay it to. Maggie Knight played this character for
Leopold Jordon, but—much as we love Maggie,
much as we’ve been loving her for all these years,
and much as we want to love her through the
years to come—we can’t compare her aoting io
that of Miss de Grey. Anyway, comparisons are
odious, and, in the grammar of human anatomy,
we re not in the comparative mood or degree or
something to-day, and don’t want to set a couple
of stage favourites to pulling hair.
* * *
Mr. A. T. Hilton’s Prince Zouroff was a
very clever representation of the part. He looked
the rough Russian fiend his lines made him out to
be. Each time when the man beside us nudged us in
the ribs to keep us from snoring, we took a fresh
look at him and the Irish within us (we prefer
Scotch as a rule, but there was none open) began
to assert itself. Then we vowed to bring a bouquet
loaded with dynamite next time and blow the head
? rince Zour—off. Morton Selton took the part
ot Correze, the opera-singer. If he had taken it to
New Guinea, we should have been better suited.
We thought Wybert Reeve was a failure as Correze,
and so he was; but he wasn’t the great, big, Mud-
gee-extension, underground-railway, Sir-Henry-
Parkes failure that Mort. Selton succeeded in
making of himself. Mr. Matt. Brodie, who played
at the Duke of Mull, was as uninteresting as a dead
kangaroo with its tail cut off. We don’t know
where Mr. Brodie learned to act; in fact, we don’t
believe he ever learned anywhere. If he did, we
would advise him to get as far away from that
school as he can and attend another—say, in Green-
land. The Esquimaux might teach him something.
Evidently the white people can’t.
* * *
Mr. Hamilton—better than any other Eng-
lish dramatist that we know of who has tried it—
has succeeded in reproducing an American female
character without scandalously over-doing the
manner of speech peculiar to the Down-East
Yankee. And yet Fuschia Leach (Miss Carrie
Stewart) has some absurdly ridicuiouslinestoread,
the like of which were never heard in America or
any where else, except on the stage or in a lunatic
asylum. Carrie Stewart looked about as much
like an American heiress as we do in a bath-tut,
and you can lay even money that that isn’t much.
rraDk Gerald’s Lord Jura was a fair performance,
and Ixorence Cowell made a charming Duchess De
For continuation of“ Sundry Shows,” see pago 13.


PEPPER AND SALT.
More “bosh” about innocent young girls
being decoyed to New Caledonia. We know a few
of these demure darlings. They hang on after the
riders in a circus until the circus goes, then on
after a weak knee’d chorus till the chorus gore.
They then go up for a “seven days’ wash;” and on
coming out, in dilapidated “lasting*” and red
shawls, meekly suffer themsel ves> to be led away to
immoral slavery. We saw the last batch go. One
When Mr. Bucklesnaffle went to Queens-
land on his celebrated exploring expedi-
tion, he promised, on his return, to bring
his friend, Hapworth, a young alligator
to make a pet of, and glad him with its
soft black eye.
“ And there you are,” said Buckle-
snaffle, meeting Hapworth on the street
on the very day of his return.
A little further on, Mr. Hapworth met a lady friend.
“ Wonder what made her giggle so."
Arriving at hio office, he placed the critter in a
tub, temporarily, and soon forgot all about him
for a time.
“ What the
" Never anticipated anything of this sort,
you know ”
Mr. Hapworth is driven to his wits’
end to provide suitable food for the
little beauty, at first.
He grew rapidly, and becoming more self-
reliant, provided largely for himself. Once
he boldly seized upon a performing monkey,
and threw an organ-grinder into bankruptcy.
/The caretaker of Mr. Eapworth's chambers
had an infant, the joy and pride of his mother,
between whom and the alligator there sprung
up a warm friendship.
One day the infant disappeared in
a way that was mysterious The alli-
gator seemed inconsolable, and mm-
glod his tears with those of the grief*
stricken parent.
The heart-broken mother did not
long survive. There was no positive
proof against the alligator.
A life-insurance agent was hU next
victim.
Then a lightning-rod man; and having
inadvertently swallowed a sample-rod
with him, the Latter lodged in his «eso>
phagus, and laid him up for a week or
two.
Upon his recovery, he evinced a sud-
den fondness for his master, who had a
narrow escape.
Mr. Hapworth now offers for sale
a fine, full-grown alligator (Torrens’
title.) Good opening. Liberal re-
duction to coroners.
Mr. Hapwarth’s Pet.
had a black eye—one her face in a sling—and one
wanted to fight the second officer. A lady of the
party, with an excoriated eyebrow, earned the
whole of her personal effects in a tin bonnet-case,
and another, who pretended to be reading a letter,
was covertly sipping rum out of a flaßk. And, as
jhe steamer moved away, they treated their friends
to a shower of orange-peel. Paw decoyed things I
• * •
We clip this from a country exchange
“A girl, whose father had been caught in a mine
explosion in Newcastle, offered to marry the man
who would get him out, but no one accepted her
offer. This shows how much more heroic woman
is than man.” Yes; and it also shows who is at the
helm—or. rather, the crank—of affairs in the office
in which that paragraph was written. We will
venture to say that the man who wrote it would
be the first to dance upon such a sentiment if it
were proposed to him for signature in a bar-room.
But in the little back-office at home—ah, that is a
different matter! No man is an editor to his wife
—in that way, anyhow.
A curious race are the Chinese, but few
have ever suspected them of humour, though that
they “crack the laughterless Confucian joke” Is
a statement we will not deny. But, listen to this,
and judge for yourselves. Sing Hong was tried
for the murder of Ah Foo, at Geraldton, W.A., in
the beginning of last month. Ah Yun was called
as first witness He scratched his head till it bled'
placed the blood in a saucer, and broke the saucer
with his right hand—a form of oath just intro-
duced by a porcelain “ ring,” we should reckon*
Then he began: “X knew Ah Foo; he is dead,”
and so on with his testimony. Yu Chi was called
as second witness. He broke another saucer, and
he began: “ 1 knew Ah Foo; be is dead now.” The
prisoner was then asked for his defence, which
was: “Ong Ku wanted to work for me, and Ah
Foo got Ong Ku to work for him. Ah Foo took
my box and I shot Ah Foo.” There is a quaint
directness about these statements which makes us
tremble for the time when these terrible Trolls of
the East, having overrun the other fields of
labour, shall take to editing newspapers. But,
what are we saying? They are through the fence
already. We need hardly more than indicate the
existence of such journals as the Armidale
Chronicle, the Camden Times, the Moruya
Examiner, and other aggressively comic publica-
tions, to convince our readors that the cloud of
joss-stick drollery is beginning to darken down on
the land.
• • *
No sooner hud the news arrived that
Froude, the historian, was to visit Australia, than
the omniscient insect of tie Bega Gazette was at
him. It objected to some of his recent writings,
on the authority of another ineect of a larger type
that lately contributed an article to the Nine-
teenth Century, announcing the discovery of
several inaccuracies in a paper of Froude’s on
Lord Byron. This reminds us of Brillnt-Savarin
telling one of bis friends that he admired him for
his great talents, his high reputation, bis well-tried
courage, and his charming manner, but still had
one great fault to And with him, which completely
cancelled his many virtues. “ Which is?” enquired
the friend, anxiously. “ You eat too fast,” reph e( j
Savarin. Poor John Anthony I You do not eve
know where Bega is, and yet there is an insec
Bega that is getting'ready to clean the B ~ n
your historiographical bones The thought
sorrowful for us to trouble about any more,
we will gi-e you a little epitaph for your on
Bega grave, for the sake of old times. Cut i 0
and vise it Wuon required. So—
Sxste, Viatokl
Stay, traveller, and drop a tear
ills great deeds done, his struggles pas ,
Here lieth Froude—who came out here
To perish by an.ant at last.


The Harmy recently had a “Hallelujah
Breakfast.” Says the Capting in charge:—“On
Sunday, at 6.30 a.m., we went for a march before
we got our breakfast. People oouldn’t make it
out, neither could the devil. There were 106 round
Father’s table for a hallelujah breakfast. The
table was spread with good things, the Bread of
Life in the centre, and was adorned with flowers—
the Lily of the Valley, the Rose of Sharon.” We
expect what surprised the poor devil mo‘t was
when he witnessed |the “ wolfing.” A hallelujah
breakfast consists of new bread plastered with in-
different butter, eighteenpenny tea, and steak
which is convertible, at pleasure, into policemen’s
staves. Men and women snap up these viands in
large blocks, and, as in the case of the steamboat
A Good Lino.
banquet in‘"Martin Chuzzlewit,” “no man winks
his eye.” We were present at one of these holy
gorges once, and we stayed as long as we con-
veniently could. That wasn’t very long. Oh, and,
by the way, “Mr. Barber, the North Shore Salva-
tion ‘ Captain ’ has been dismissed from the Harmy.
He says he doesn’t know why.”—
We do not know, O Capting bold,
How this all came to pass;
We can but pity you, and cry,
A lass
m m m
It is rumoured that a distinguished news-
paper proprietor is about to despatch a correspon-
dent to the war in China. The literary Maecenas in
question w<w seen cheapening a telescope with a
lens out er day; and thefe is a whisper
that he has been seen furbishing up a horse-pistol.
We wonder whom his choice will fall upon this
time. Not “ W.” again, we suppose; though, from
the descriptive manner in which he accepted that
“good cigar,” we should say he would be great at
describing how the murderous shells, humming
through the air, fell crashing upon the doomed
city. Perhaps the Boss intends to go himself. Aha!
that would be good news, indeed! We can imagine
some of the first slip of his first despatch:—“'l he
frensh soldgers were gaters and read little jerneis
in their own laDgwidge, also cigars 2 for ha penny
they smoke before the battel. Me and a solger be-
longing to a bred wagin saw last nite’s flte very
comfortably, and ” Oh, yes! “It is written in
letters of fire “ the Boss himself must go.”
We have come to the conclusion that
whatever anyone may have said to the oontrary
the Morcya Examiner man is a humourist. Take
this joke in his last issue, for instance: “We are
constantly receiving complaints from subscribers
respecting the non-delivery of their papers,” and
then follow dark and mysterious threats of an
opera-bouffish kind against the Post-office authori-
ties, if that sort of thing is not suddenly remedied.
Funny, isn’t it? Well, we think so, anyhow,
being in the secret of this stock joke of the coun-
try papers. As a matter'of fact, the boy who is
supposed to deliver the journals is generally in
hiding around a house two or three days before he
can get a chance to throw one In over the back
fence, or down the chimney. These boys usually
turn out bushrangers when they grow up, their
natures being rendered savave by the desperate
exigencies of their calling. We believe Ned Kelly
or Steve Hart used to deliver the Benalla Stan-
dard once.
9 m •
We have seen something of Randwick
helps, but—we say it demurely—we have not seen
as much of fhem as certain Candelo ladies did the
other day. There is one in a family down there’
and she is a sort of “ Oakum-bcad”— an irrepres-
sible. Her mistress beat her one day. She said
nothing. Next day a party of ladies came to after-
noon tea. While they were sitting at it, “ Oakum-
head ” came round in front of the parlour windows
and commenced to walk upon her hands, finishing
the performance by standing an her head right
under the windows. If this sort of thing is taught
in Randwick, we have done with domestic assist-
ance from that quarter—as long as domtstlo assist,
ance chooses to stand on its head, that is. Our
objection to this posture is that it is an insult to
the law of gravity.
• • *
We learn from the Kempsey paper that
public excitement is at quite a fever pitch up there
just now on account of cattle being allowed to go
through the streets. And only a short while ago
certain cows paid a visit to the graveyard, which
has been the cause (er should we say the cows!) of
a good deal of bitterness among the religious
bodies in Kempsey. It seems the cows went in to
mourn over the wrong denomination (they were
Wesleyan cows, we believe, but we don’t know
which sect owned the lot in which they were
caught), and the members of that denomination
naturally took it as a reflection upon their de-
ceased relatives—in other words, implying they
were calves. All this seems to us very foolish,
and we think missionaries should be sent to the
cows at once. Missionaries all know how to milk
their congregations.
* * *
Pretty soon every oitizen will be com-
pelled to have his own padded room and straight
jacket, or show caus? why he should not be sent
to Gladesvillo. There are getting to be so many
t'sts of insanity now that before long it will be the
shortest plan for every man to forestal the police,
and shave his own head. The other day an old
lady was taken up as a lunatic by the Kyneton
(Vic.) police, because she was found in a railway
carriage without a ticket. But what is that to
what occurred here some time ago? Let us tell
you lirst that the medical authorities have a set
series of questions to address to persons supposed
to be insance. If any of these questions are an-
swered incoherently.’.the patient is at once told not
to excite himself, and is handed over to the care of
a nice, kind gentleman, who takes him on a visit
to his fine family seat up the river. Not long
ago, there was a Swedish lady in the hos-
pital, who had become separated from her at-
tendants, and could not speak or understand
a word of Enelish. One of the doctors—a genial
Irishman—came to examine her case. Of course,


“German Syrup.”—No other medicine in
the world has ever given such a test of its cura-
tive qualities as Boschee’s German Syrup. In
three years two million four hundred thousand
small bottles of this medicine were distributed
free of charge by Druggists in the United States of
America to those afflicted with Consumption,
Asthma, Croup, severe Coughs, Pneumonia, and
other diseases of the throat and lungs, giving the
afflicted undeniable proof that German Syrup will
cure them. The result has been that Druggists in
every town and village in civilized countries are
recommending it to their customers. Go to your
Druggist and ask what they know about it. Sample
Bottles 6d. Regular size, 3s. 6d. Three doses wil
relieve any case.
“She never told her love,” for the good
reason that, up to the present, the real “Simon
Pure ” had not turned up. She was a gay little
soul, ever going to a ball or a picnic, and being a
more than usually pretty girl, which is saying a
great deal where pretty girls abound, she never
lacked a cavalier of the right sort. She was one of
those who are always happy, joyful, and full of
glee; and, by the way, that sort of thing is im-
mensely catching—if you rub up against jolly
people, you are pretty sure to be jolly yourself;
therefore, always look up the jollY folks. And
this fair young Sydney Delle, of whom we are
speaking, do you know she confessed to us the
other day, and, mind you, it was not under the
seal of confidence, that of all the gaieties and plea-
sures with which she was surrounded, there was
nothing made the wheeis of life run smoother than
half an hour among the ribbons and laces at An-
thony Hordern and Sons’ Palace Emporium, Hay-
market. * *
George: “ Estrella, this your birthday! ”
Estrella: “ Yes, George, and you promised to pre-
sent me with a charming dinner-sot of that beau-
tiful chinaware that we saw at Bray’s, 403 George-
street. You know—like the lovely set the Monta-
gues bought.*
neither of them could understand the other. He
could allow for not understanding her, but it was
too mueh of a mystery for his simple intellect that
she could not understand him. But a bright
thought struck him. He applied the test ques.
tions to her. She either did not reply, or replied
in Swedish. This was enough. Dootor Pat gravely
sat down and wrote a report upon her case, recom-
mending her immediate removal to Gladesville, on
the ground that he had put all the test questions
to her and had not received an intelligent reply to
one of them! Whether his sage advice was acted
upon or not we have not heard, but the story loses
nothing by that.
“ You stand off, now, and I’ll show you! ”
This is the usual formula of the farmer when
he comes into a country newspaper office and
shows a 4oz. egg to the wondering editor. But the
Oampbelltown Herald man met with a different
kind of farmer, the other day, and gratefully
acknowledges the fact after this fashion:—“Mr.
Woodward, who keeps over 300 laying hens, sent
us four eggs, weighing over fourteen ounces. The
best part of the business is that those sent by Mr.
Woodward were to be sampled.” The tone of
triumph in this last sentence is sorrowfully sug-
gestive. But what is it to the pathos, thinly veiled
as playfulness, of these concluding words: “ Per-
haps it would not be out of place to mention that
we are excellent judges of anything good to eat or
drink?” Indeed not, poor fellow. We should
hardly say your palate was spoiled bjf luxuries
After this gorgeous feast, however, we should say
that, instead of being called the editor, he should
be called the egg-eater of the Campbelltown
Herald.
• a •
It was in the Protestant Standard office,
and Zachary Barry was cutting out of the home
news scathers for the Scarlet Lady, in the shape of
items about censer-boys seeing the error of their
ways, and Jesuits’ parrots renouncing Rome, when
his eye lit on this paralyser: “ Lord Petre will take
his seat in the House of Lords during the Autumn
session. He will be the first Roman Catholic priest
who has sat there since the Reformation.” “ Carry
me out,” said Zachary, in a feeble gasp; “I have
lived long enough. Boy!” An inkstained youth
answered the summons, and, handing him a roll of
manuscript, Zachary covered his head with a dust-
cloth, and, pointing to his heart, cried in a hollow
voice, “ Strike! strike, boy, and do not fear! I
have done with the world!” But, as the boy did
not strike, Zachary took the cloth from his head
again, and wiped his forehead with it. The cynical
eye of the youth was on him, however, and he
blushed—that reverend man —with confusion.
“Get out,” he growled, at last, “and bring me in
the proof of that article about the Beast with the
Seven Horns.” Which was all very well as a cover
for his retreat; but, as sure as Zachary Barry lives’
this step of allowing a Roman Catholic priest to
Parliament is only the first of a well-planned
series which will lead to the Pope being made
Premier. TheD, if Zachary publishes his paper at
all, he will have to publish it in his hat. So now is
the time to sound the tocsin of war, and give the
canvasser a new pair of bluchers.
# * *
We have just met, in a country contem-
porary, with the old proverb: “ One man can lead
a horse to the brink, but twenty cannot make it
di ink.” This shows how muoh more sensible the
average country editor is than a horse. Any man
can lead him into a bar, and twenty can make him
drink there. The police-force have to turn out to
take him away. That’s where the horse get’s the
pull on him. So perhaps things are pretty even
between them.
*• * *
They are going to have a new cemetery at
Queanbeyan. It was near time. The old one used
to get flooded whenever the river rose, and people
passing by late at night used to be scared out of
their wits by seeing the occupants sitting in their
shrouds bailing out their graves. Indeed, the
thing had come to such a pass that one of the first
stipulations made by persons who died there lately
was that a life-buoy should be put in their coffins.
This is a fact, though it may seem a strange one.
* * *
They had an elooutionary tournament at
Maitland a few days ago It was a cultured affair.
One of the pieces delivered was the oration of
Marc Antony over the dead body of Caesar. Here
we quote from the local paper:—“Mr. Lewis fol-
lowed. This gentleman evidently believes in real-
ism in art, for he brought out with him a large
railway rug, to which, on coming to the lines
‘ you all do know this mantle,’ he pointed with
solemn gesture.” This is delicious. Mr. Lewis is a
humourist of the first order. The first order of
humourists is chiefly composed of dead-house
keepers and drag manipulators. But this incident,
in its magnificent recklessness of anachronism, re-
minds us of one very similar which we saw in our
salad days. It was at an amateur theatrical per-
formance, and the company were playing “ Julius
Csesar.” They were chiefly young grocers and
d rapers with more of a turn for histrionics than for
history. For instance their togas—bed-sheets—
were embellished on the back with large red
crosses, which gave the idea that the wearers
hid been hired to walk about the town
advertising the Red Cross Jam Preserving
Company. The glory of the performance,
however, was the get-up of the youth who
played Caesar. He was a red-headed softgoods-
raan, and strode up to the base of Pompey’s statue
enveloped in majestic gloom and the red-cross
toga of the time. When he took his place at the
pedestal of the statue, and the dread moment
arrived when he was to die, the full force of his
gigantic joke burst upon us. He was bare-legged
from the middle of the thigh to the knee, and
from that down his legs were cased in Wellington
boots! He was'stabbed in seventeen places, and
died in his boots like a man and a Roman. But it
was too muoh, even for that unsophisticated audi-
ence. When his supposed dead body was humped
round again to be orated over by Marc Antony,
somebody threw an egg and hit it in the eye,
whereupon the corpse of mighty Csesar got up,
and, shaking its fist at the audience, said it “would
be d—d if it would be made a target for them,”
and strode off in sullen gloom—which, of course,
Liirst up the show, and the curtain was rung down
under a .destructive fire of oranges, and amid a
M,orm of yells. But, for all that, we should like
to gaze once upon Mr. Lewis and his railway rug.
Still, we are in no hurry; it wifi be time enough
wh. n he is stuffed.
BRIEF MENTION.
A Royal “ Shade ”: R. B. Smith’s umbrella.
We learn by cable that Ireland is notat all
satisfied.
A Newtown man broke his jaw laughing.
Somebody told him the looal paper had decided to
be funny.
Bishop Barry has visited Bishop Moran.
It is not said which pronounoed the male—no,
benediction.
What crumpled up Lord Colin: The con-
dition of his Blood. Put your fore-finger on your
forehead, and think.
The Czar is finding money for a new expe-
dition to be sent to the NortnjPole. He wants a
more conspicuous gallows.
The Gospel Army have rented larger pre-
mises, near the gates of Darlinghurst Gaol. This
is handy—for the policemen.
Newcastle Handby would abolish the
Lords. A copy of the paper has been sent to Eng-
land. Why should he Interfere ?
A curious fact.—ln Hunter-street there is a
boarding-house, with a surgeon’s brass-plate on
the gate, and an undertaker next door.
A country editor records “ with much
regret ” the death of the local gaoler. It is only
natural for one to be sorry at losing a good host.
SAUCE FOR THE GOOSE, &c.
THE PENRITH PARSONS COMPLAIN THAT THE SALVATION HARMY ANNOUNCE
THEIR SERVICES IN A HARASSING MANNER. AND
THE UNLUCKY INVALID COMPLAINS THAT THE PARSON OVER THE WAY ANNOUNCES
HIS SERVICES IN A HARASSING MAN-.
“ Will you meet me Over There? ” said the
dying Brown. “ No, Tom, old boy,” said his mate,
wringing his cold hand, “ I have still time for re-
pentance.”
For the next 45 years,” says the editor of
the Wentworth advocate, “we shall be in
America.” Thank goodness, Tierra-del-Fuego
claims her own.
The Wollongong Argus came out lately
upside-down. The editor evidently (from this)
walks upon his head. It is, perhaps, the best use
he could make of it.
They are going to start a private enquiry
office for missing friends in Bourke, we believe,
but are not sure. We suppose the enquiry will be
principally conducted with a drag.
Some Australian sa/vant has started the
latest theory in evolution, viz.—that man is de-
scended from the snake. There seems to be Borne
ground for this: men are such liars.
We have received an interesting copy of
the Jiji Shimpo, a Japanese journal, from which,
as our dictionary is not to hand, we gather the
curious information that we are raving mad.
The Newcastle Herald says that the
Czar is “ the most uuhappy being in the world.”
Perhaps he is. But the worst has not corne to the
worst yet—he still refuses to take in the Herald.
Professor Scott is struggling to translate
this into Greek: “Advices wired Warrnambool,
potatoes maintain phenomenal prices. Oriental
new issue firming. Ring on’Change bulling &od
bearing for big boorq.”
The other evening, the Maitland band
struck up “ Se« the .conquering hero comes.”
The people looked up and down the street, but
could see nothing except a dray approaching with
a cask of whisky on it.
“You have hitherto been called orni-
thorhynchus paradoxus,” said Professor Caldwell,
drawing a platypus out of a hole and examining
him. “We have not been called well ” said the
poor bird—no, fish—no, reptile.
The Cooma Express has a correspondent
who has been writing to it for the last three
years, and whose name is “P. J. Mould.” Now we
can forgive it for its funereal gloom. Our only
wonder is that it is not long since dead.
The S. M. Herald has a series of articles
on the Origin and Progress of our Local Military
Forces. That they originated there is no doubt;
and that there have been gentlemen who have
drawn stiff salaries for doing altogether too much,
we know; but Progress!!
A frantic Petersham ratepayer wants us
to show up an alderman who opposed the Park
business, and then goes on to describe how that
obstructionist was lately seen, &0., &0., and ends—
“and get L. Hop. to draw him.” We are not paid
to administer Hop Bitters.
An Irishman died at Maryborough (Q.)
the other day, and his friends had prayers said for
his soul. The night after his death his ghost ap-
peared to one of them, and said “ It’s no use pray-
ing for me: I’m in Hell, but I’d a d—d sight rather
be there than in Maryborough I ” _
Says little Bailey:—“The Hospital Ball, on
the whole, was a great success, and there was a
great rush for the Gundagai Herald.” We
should say that was a certain sign of success. If
there was a great rush made for the Gundagai
Herald the Hospital couldn’t have been short of
patients long.
“ What ’re you doing there ? ” said one of a
party of boon companions assembled in the bar of
a country hotel, to a boy with a smile like a horse-
collar, who came in and Jed the local editor out bv
the shoulder. “ What am I a-doin’ ?” replied the
boy, with a huge grin; “why, can’t ye see I’m a
movin’ the Arkymeejua Lever that moves the
world ?”
The Redfern Regret ealls chess the king
of games. We fancy we have heard the phrase
before, but we are not certain. However, not to
be behindhand in communicating information, we
may inform that frenzied dispenser of knowledge
that the world is all but round, and that a stream
in the New England district has been observed to
run down hill.
Says the Suburban Suburb, which circu-
lates in the suburbs: “A Warego goat came to a
sad end at Waterloo a few days ago. It eat a Mud-
gee banquet ticket, the property of one of the
aldermen, ami the unfortunate animal shortly
afterwards expired in convulsions.” This is how
the wily propiietor calls for his old editor to oome
back from that feed.
The Port Douglas (Q.) Times says sugges-
tively:—“lnspector Carr has come back from his
mission of vengeance. We do not think that the
settlers of the Daintree district will be troubled
again for some time to come, Mr. Carr having
thoroughly dispersed the myalls.” Wo should like
to get some details about the Carr process of
myall dispersement.
We see that the old joke about Potiphar
has turned up again, after having been buried,
amid the execrations of an infuriated populace, in
the reign of George IL It has been resuscitated
by Alfred. Though, perhaps, it may not be new,
even to him, he would doubtless appreciate aDy
pleasantry that was popular during the reign of
the House of Handover.
Quite true. “It is pleasing to see,” says a
contemporary, “ that journalistic enterprise is go-
ing ahead in the far interior.” So it is. We have
heard hotel-keepers make the same remark many
a time when journalistic enterprise has gone ahead
in the shape of an apparition with a type-stick
and a billy-can black with age and crime, which it
had feebly offered as a substitute in payment for
two days’ board and a bottle of rum.
A Melbourne paper says a tremendous
stampede was caused around Creswick by the
report that a lion of unnatural fierceness had
broken loose from the cireus there and was kill-
ing everything in his way. Also, that people were
so afraid th <t they went to their work with loaded
guns on their shoulders. Also, that “the terrible
lion turned out to be a greyhound dog with a
cloth on.” Terrible lion I Terrible lyin’.
Listen! A Domain orator said, a Sunday
or two ago, that the Democratic Alliance would
be reformed on such a basis that neither Sir Henry
Parkes, David Buchanan, nor the gates of hell
could shake it. Can you guess it? No! Well,
now! Why, of course he meant that the Alliance
would be reformed on the basis of Nothing. We
should like to see what could shake that. Who
would care to, anyhow ? There are no river front-
ages in it.
“Look here! ” said Alfred to his manager
one day last week, and then he pointed to the fol-
lowing paragraph:—" Mr. Barnes’ microtome, sug-
gested by Messrs. Caldwell and Threfeld’s auto-
matic microtome, can cut sections the 6000th of an
inch in thickness.” “Send for it at once!” said
Alfred. “Why?” enquired the manager, in a
tone of respectful surprise. “Why?” replied
Alfred, biting his thumb and glaring at the
manager, “ why, to cut the expenses down finer,
of course! ”
This item is for the ladies’ column. It is
from a country paper: “A fight took dace towards
the finish of the fancy dress ball at Narrabri, and
one gentleman went home with a pair of black
eyes.” Quite chivalrous, isn’t it ? It is a pity that
these sort of things do not occur more frequently
at fashionable affairs in Sydney. But, when we
come to think of it, we blush to admit that we
ourselves have gone home with a pair of black
eyes from a ball before now. They belonged to
another person, however. It all depends upon that,
dear girls.
To show how some men esteem brazen
assertion above knowledge, we have an instance
of a N.S. Wales politician, whose strong suit is
finance, and whoso reported speeches bristle with
figures. List to this. He had occasion to ex-
pound his views on great loans not long ago, and
got his calculations printed. He continually reads
decimals this way: 4’6, or 47, or 5 3 per cent, are,
respectively, 4 and a fifth, 4 and a seventh, and
5 and a third! Here’s a man to aspire to a Trea-
surership, if you like.
Julian Thomas arrived at Wentwoiththe
other day, and some of the residents gave him a
banquet. This was very nice of them, and very
nice for Julian, and very nice for everybody.
Only the chairman, we think, was too grasping
He said in his speech at the conclusion that he
“regretted that similar gatherings were not more
frequent in Wentworth.” That is, in other word?,
he yearned for more Julians to feast. Well, he had
a greater appetite for glory than we had. One
Julian was enough for us. But then we are modest,
whioh, perhaps, makes all the difference.
The Bathurst Sooial Club have carried it
by one vote that “ the pen has been more instru-
mental in promoting the greatness of the British
Empire than the sword. When we remember
that Charles White, and Gloster Searle White, and
Dan Mayne, and Bae are all wielding pens in
Bathurst, we have no fear now of the disruption
of the Empire at this end, and would gladly see our
swords beaten into magnum-bonums and for-
warded to those mighty champions. It is for this
reason we would look upon the abolition of the
defence vote with profound equanimity.
The Jews have just celebrated the Rosh
Oshosbono. Hush! hush 10, no—[None of that
here.— Ed.]— it being 5644 years since the earth was
fitted up for Adam, the descendants of Abraham,
and to contain John Davies, and gentlemen who
lend at 1700 per cent, to the Marcus Clarkes of the
Gentiles. We throw over geological cavils at such
a solemn time, and congratulate the earth on its
antiquity, and the Jewish race cnits vitality; and,
to show our bona fides, are quite prepared to sign
any number of bonds for cash down on bills due
at the Rosh Osb-what-d’you-call-it, when the year
11,388 oomes round. We will positively not plead
for a renewal. Bat. alas, we may be dead before
then!
There is a sombre splendour about the
Cooktown Independent which has a wierd fas-
oination for us at all times. We may 6ay that we
are most affected by it when the subject is foot-
bridges, or stray goats, or the great question of
“the dredge.” Listen to this about the latter:—
“We have no hesitation in denouncing the diver-
sion of the dredge to Townsville as an act contrary
to reason, justice, and honour.” There is courage
for you I There is dauntless chivalry! There is—
but, stay 1 May there not be some personal motive
under this fine language? Is it not possible—we
only whisper it—that the editor might have wanted
to have his bead cleaned out before the dredge was
taken away?


Sonnaz. As Lady Dolly, however, Mrs. Walter
Hill was too young and giddy for any use, and we
couldn’t h°lp hoping that somebody would leave
the lid of the tank open some dark night when
she gees out to hunt the cats off the back fence.
• am
If any change of programme has been
announced for Saturday night at the Opera House
we haven't seen it. This we will say, however,
that “Moths” deserves a good long run, for it is
the most powerful oomedy-drama that you are
likely to see in Sydney in many a good long day.
m m * *
Hiacocks’ Federal Minstrels continue to
draw and delight large crowds nightly at the
Academy of Music. On Friday night of this week
Horace Bent, “the Australian humourist and
comedian,” takes a benefit, to which his friends
Shewing^
Lms-sopstf tor tmfit .. .
tensa m amt v of o&whvcnan
A/kj proposed bj the fresent Coetrnmtnt, T-
.O 0 U iTIUS '6l*U ,M
■ grot- I i . 1 i... i I ' T T--I- -I
Map shewing the New Lines of Railway proposed by the Government of M.S. Wales.
are Invited, at the usual prioes per head. We
don’t know what Horace Is taking this benefit for,
but we imagine It’s for his health. It needs some
benefit if you listen to him.
•• * •
Thursday night was taken up with song
and smoke by the Metropolitan Liedertafel. The
old Masonic Hall was crowded, and the emphatic
way in which middle-aged, thin-haired, subdued-
looking men pounded the floor and rapped the seats
showed that years of domestic repression were
unable to entirely smother the buoyant demon-
strativeness of long ago. The persons of the
stagers loomed large and Indistinct through the
haze of tobacco-smoke enveloping them Hallo-
well was there, and in fine fettle. He gave us,
among other things, the evergreen “Simon the
Cellarer”—that friend of our youth, who has done
more for the cause of Bacchus than all the scrib-
blers, from Anacreon to Tom Moore. There is an
E in “Simon”—whether above or below the lino
oretraddlelogs on it, we are unable to say just now
—and Hallewell trolled It out so effectively and re-
sonantly as to make those of us, who never got be-
low F sharp, anxious to rise In a body and destroy
him. Mr. Rodd, a tenor of the robust sohool, gave
“ My sweetheart when a boy,” and gave it wefl. It
is a suggestive song. Women at 30, It is said, like
men at 40. It may be so: we oannot say. what
we can say is that boys at 14 get hopelessly mashed
on women of 25 to 30. We were so ourselves; and
when, one day, a tall cavalry-man with blonde
moustache and sawdustbrains dropped down upon
our peaceful village and robbed us of our love, we
—b u t. mtptigh. M r . pinsuti was well reoelved. So
was M‘Mahon, whose tone and tongueing on the
oornet filled a long-felt want. Some part-songs
were given by the members in a manner oredlt-
able to themselves and their Instructor. Herr
Aipen. The Herr accompanied during the even-
ing. The entertainment marked the close of the
Metropolitan Liedertafel’s first year's existence—
so, with a hearty “goodspeed” on our lips, we
wandered into the night air, ricocheted off a Sal-
vationists’ meeting, and sidled home.
In spite of determined opposition, Rad-
cliff and Rita filled the old Masonic Hall on Friday.
The rain was the opposition. The programme was
varied In some particulars, but there was no vari-
ation in the applause. It was just as deafening as
ever. While Madame was giving the “Carnival
of Vensle” you could have hoard the friction of a
sunbeam. When she was done you couldn’t have
heard a bullock-driver’s oath. ADd Radcliff?
Well, we intend to hear him once more before we
launch out into a treatise on the flute and flute-
players from the time of Tubal Cain.
** * *
Remenj, the great Hungarian violinist,
who is regarded as Dot yielding the position of the
world’s best violinist even to Joaohim, passed
through Sydney this week, and was for several
days the guest of Max Vogrich. for whoso talent
Remenj has the highest estimation. He says that
Australians have not realised the sort of musician
they possess in Vogrich. At a littie recital in a
private oircle a few nights ago, the two at lists co-
operated, and kept a number of connoisseurs en-
tranced for several hours. In several pieces,
Remenj literally “ played ” the music; in a
minuetto of Mozarts, especially, tacitly chal-
lenging Vogrich to a game of musioal romps,
to which the latter responded with quick and
able appreciation, the great violinist’s tour
de caprice being watched by the other artist
with keen enjoyment, and retorted with charming
Aplomb. Nothing resembling this bit ot musical
gaiety has ever, so far as we know, been attempted
in public. Remenj says that among living pianists,
Vogrich is, besides Liszt, the oniy one whom he
has found capable of entering extempore into this
musical oaprioe, and responding with his instru-
ment to the va raries committed by himself on the
violin. Rube 1 uein could, when prepared and on
his guard, cat:; j on; but when taken off-hand, be
lost the run ot he humour, and his share of the
extemporization was not maintained.
“ THE POOR PLA[?]
Correspondence is invited fn> >< n* * ,i the
Theatrical Protest "
Dan Barry appears to nuv> • .oil of
bad luck in Burrowa. He announce . i.«- pi educ-
tion of the “Shamrock Green," by G S. Parnell
fill] a play which “was almost mubib ted by the
Government of Ireland, but b<; wins determined
to perform it in defiance <>f ~m i. 'eminent.”
Dan thought this would fetch the lb..i\ w» Micks;
but, somehow, they didn’t roll up, «< mxt night
the fearless manager took tbu oruma by C. 8.
Parnell, which he wa* dete u ;ued to perform iu
defiance of any Govern l- i ’< iourg. ' an
evidently wants a dun* • •• > ,-nds of our
ruling Apollo Belvider , t ut be won’t
get it. We understand , that, so far as
blankets, flour, and toba;'.' to, the Government
(always sympathetic) ar: v •_> j much at Mr. Barry’s
service A lady, wuose name not the tortures of
Tantalus should induce us to disclose, forwards us
the following epigram, which, probably, alludes to
the usual row at rehearsal:—
“ They engaged Miss 8. to play a part,
And left her in a corner:
She won’t be caught in the Darke again,
Just once is enough to Warner!”
Talking of little Warner, we wonder when he is
coming back again ? Sydney misses his marvellous
feats of equestrianism. What was the good of
Jennie Lee’s buying him a step-ladder to mount
with, when the glory of being her equestrian cava-
lier was only to last one season ?—Oh, and Jessie
Vokes is dead. The Vokes Family were always
coming out to Australia, but never did. They
were five in number—Fred, Fawden, Victoria, Ro-
sina, and Jessie—and only had one eternal piece,
“ The Belles of the KitobeD,” which, though at
first amusing, became at last a horrid bore. Vic-
toria, Rosina, and Fred were the clever ones. We
knew Jessie well, and would be sorrier that shells
dead than we are nad she not in life possessed a
habit of smothering: her ebon ourls with hair-oil.
Jessie was very ugh, and virtuous! even to prim-
ness We laugh (iu what we consider a good-
natured way) at our contemporaries here lor their
trite sayiogs, yet the Bell's Life “Tatler”
announces the re-opening of the London Vaude-
ville with “the ever-green ‘Confusion.’” —M e
spoke, some time ago, of Bartley Campbell, some
of whose dramatic abortions have been inflicted
upoD us in t»ydney—the ‘‘Galley Slave,” etc.—plays
which nre an insult to the commonest understand-
ing. Wc 11, this literary cripple recently bad his
“My Partner” cone in London, where it was
whistled off with very great expedition; and his
latest production, “ Fate,” has been likewise
curiously damned at a London matinee given by
Carlotta Leclerq, at the Olympic. Carlotta must
be close on 50 now. It was said, you know, that—
but there is no word of it in Forster’s “Life of
Dickens”! And it mny interest society to know
that Miss Kate Vaughan was unable to take her
benefit, recently, as announced, “inconsequence
tf the death vt her uuole, Earl Cowley.” Hem I


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We Khali be glad to have this index potted up bv
tecretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACIN'*
Camden and Campbelltown J.C °ctober 3.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,16.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R/C November 9.
Murrumburrah R.C November in.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
Narandcra l'.C November 27,28.
Viotoria Amateur T.C November 37, 28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Rosehill R.C December 27.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.2B, March 5, 7
AQUATIC.
N.S.W. Rowing Association Regatta October 18.
Canvas Dingy Club Ist. class race October 18.
Matterson v. Kemp October 18.
Solomon v. Kemp October 18.
Double Bay Regatta November 1.
Hanlan v. Clifford Febuary 7.
Beaoh v. Clifford February 28.
ATHLETICS
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEME
Tom Ray, of Ulverstone, has again cleared
12ft. with the pole.
Nearly £lOO was subscribed for the Kent
professionals who played against Australia at Can-
terbury.
Two gentlemen met. One remarked to
the other, “ That looks an A 1 dog of yours.”
“ Not at all, he’s not Al; he’s K 9.”
“Roadster,” in the Australasian, speaks
very highly of the Sydney Bicycle Club, which, he
Bays, is the richest in the colonies.
The fastest 5-mile record for scuiling i
Hanlan’s 33min. s(sj4seo« rowed alone. The fastes
for a race, Josh Ward’s 35min. lOsec.
The championship of the Portsmouth
ladies’ swimming club has been won oy a fair crea
ture who swam 88 yards in ltnin. 12sec.
A match for the benefit of George Avery
an old Blackburn rover, “ who is goißg to Austra
lia,” has been played at Blackburn, England.
The battered bit of red leather which de
feated the Australians at Canterbury, has been
encircled by a silver band and presented to Lady
Harris.
A 22-lb. wild-cat was pitted against three
bull-dogs in succession, at Coal Valley, W.Va., on
2nd August, and killed them in llrnin., 7min., and
13min. respectively.
At Camus Rectory, near Strabane, eleven
ladies have played a cricket match against eleven
gentlemen. The former used bats, and the latter
broomsticks. The ladies won by one wicket.
A race for 2000 dollars “was rowed by
Teemer and Wallace Ross, on the East River, New
.York; and after a desperate race, the dollars were
pursed by Teemer, who won by half a length only
The Norman Bicycle Club (Vic.), in their
coming races have made it compulsory for riders
to wear white pants, and cap anu jacket of differ-
ent colours—such as yellow jacket and black cap
for instance.
At a dog-tight for 2500 dollars and gate-
money, at Long Island City, one dog killed the
other after two hours’ lighting; and, on asecouc
pair being; put into the pit, one was taken out dead
in tifty minutes.
John Dempsey and George Fulljames
fought with skin gioves for 2000 dollars. Twenty-
two rounds were got through in 38 minutes,
Dempsey winning from the start. Youth and
weight must be served.
F. Aroher heads the list of winning jockeys
this English racing season with 170 firsts out of 378
mounts; next in order come C. Wood, 84 out of
320; 8. Loates, 51 out of 281; T. Cannon, 40 out of
149; J. Osborne, 34 out of I*9.
At the Australia v. All England match,
five shillings was charged at the stand for a seat
on a hard form without any back, and without any
covering from a scorching sun. The oharge for a
covered stand was ten shillings.
“Ignoramus” wrote to the Dallt New's,
recommending (1) that fresh wickets be provided
for each innings, (2) the institution of four-day
matches in cases of national importance, and (3)
the commencement of play at 10 a.m.
Sam Yates, on behalf of the employees of
the Bun paper, on July 22nd, presented Harry
Taxter, its superintendent, with a set of fishing
tackle valued at 100 dollars. We wonder if he will
ever land 100 cents worth of fish with it.
Sir Modred’s dam is expected shortly to
foal to Apremont, and there is now at Middle Park
a very handsome yearling daughter of hers by
Apremont. To the latter Welcome Jack's
dam, Miss Flat, foaled a filly a few days back.
From London Punch
“To ‘the Surrey Crowd.’
“Shame, Sirs! When victory fails to crown our
banners
Bad cricket is not mended by bad manners 1 ”
Mr. Lueker, of Melbourne, is credited with
having laid wagers on the Melbourne Cup amount-
ing to £21,000. He made 21 wagers, eacb £lOOO, lay-
ing from 1000 to 20 down to 1000 to 1. He migbt
make a pile at it, but it is hard to see where it ib to
come in.
We have a “ dark ’un ” who can pull Beach
aoyway, for anything, from an obliterated postage
stamp up to a million sterling. We know you
won't spoil the plant if we tell you his name, so
here goes to let you into a certainty—it’s “John
Detble.”
“ Pendragon” writes in the Referee that
Myers, the American amateur, who is alleged to
have run 440 yards at Birmingham in 48 3-ssoc., can
have from him an/ amount of money he and his
party like, from £1 to £lOOO that he cannot repeat
the record in question.
Mr. E. G. Griffith, one of the oldest of New
Zealand sportsmen, and the importer of, amongst
other animals, Sir Modred’s dam Idalia, and Bom-
nus’s dam Hammock, has started an agency at
Christchurch for the sale and purchase of tho-
roughbred horses and mares.
At Bally haunis racecourse (Ballyhaunis is
in county Mayo), recently, a circumstance almost
phenomenal in racing and chasing annals occurred
in a mare and her colt each winning raoes at t e
same meeting. Ihe mare was Dame Durden, the
colt Crichton, and they are the property of Captain
Boyoott, the original ooycottee.
The only 60-inch rider in Melbourne came
a “ howler,” the other day, and, when spitting
out tho broken pieces of pipe-stem that had lodged
half-way down his throat, was sympathised with
by a bystander, who remarked, “Be gad! you
take it mighty aisy, spitting out yer teeth with
divil a wince; y’re a plucky lad, by my sowl.”
The American horse Parole has at last
retired from the turf, after a long and successful
career, during which he twice visited England.
He was nine successive years on the turf, crossing
the Atlantic twice, and started in 120 races, of
which he won 59, was second in 22, third in 14, and
unplaced in 28—winning $82,233 for bis enterprising
owner.
Private A. Robertson, Ist Scottish Rifles,
won the rifle championship of the British Army
at Wimbledon, with a total score of 115 points at
200, 500, 800, and 1000 yards.
At the Crystal Palace on 6th August, H.
J. Webb, of the London Tricycle Club, rode 100
miles in 6h. 43min. 32j4seo. on a tricycle, beating all
previous records from 25 miles upwards.
No match has yet been made between the
aquatic terrors of the Lands and Treasury. The
backers of the “Jungle” (the money representa-
tive) completely crushed their earthy opponents
by the amount of their challenge. The reason of
their confidence is that the “Jungle” is in grand
condition from doing six hou-s a day pulling a go-
cart with a 20-inch-square baby in it.
Jamieson, the home champion in the Cum-
berland and Westmoreland style of wrestling, is a
man of immense muscular strength. He weighs
over 18st„ and is so powerful in the arms that he
can lay down any ordinary man just by drawing
him in to him; and men who have had the pleasure
of a hug from him say that he could crush in the
ribs, like a bear, if he chose to exert his full power.
Brain’s 100 against Australia in the Glou-
cestershire match was the tenth hundred hit otf
our men’s bowling as against two hundreds made
for them this season. However, it must not be
forgotten that in the match just referred to the
Australians had, in Gloucestershire’s second in-
nings, a wet ball to bowl and field—a serious dis-
advantage.
Fishermen in America are cursing their
want of luck this season, and put it all down to tho
number of actors, variety and legitimate, who are
bobbing for what they can get, their own business
having come to an end earlier this year than usual.
Most of these actors, in their inexperience, have
been baiting with custard rolls and ice-creams, and
have completely vitiated the taste of the average
fish.
Archer reported Morgan for foul riding in
one of the races at Kempton (Eng.), and the latter
jockey, on being brought before Lord Alington,
Sir P. Johnstone, and Lord Marcus Beresford, was
let off with a reprimand. Archer himself has ere
now got home under most desperate circumstances,
and there are plenty of racegoers who look upon
him as one of the last to think of the means so the
desired end be obtained.
Thus the Wobi/d :—“ The names that have
been mentioned in connection with the team to
visit Australia at the end of our season ought not
to give satisfaction. It is essentially a Players
team, and therefore, the two gentlemen who are
to be included, as is stated, are out of place.
Whilst so much is said in England about money
being tho object of the Antipodean crioketers, we
should be doubly careful ourselves.”
In the last international matoh the Eng-
lishmen scored faster than the Australians. It is
worthy of note, among the] many singular things
that this match has shown us, that all through the
England innings there was a. left-handed batsman
at one end. Scotton went in first, and was out
ninth, and on his retirement Peate joined Head.
This was a circumstance, if not withoutprecedeut,
at any rate, almost unexampled in recent years.
John Wilson has a circus performance afr
the Westminster Aquarium, London, where he
makes a speciality of bucking and high-jumping
A LIEDERTAEEL SKETCH.
(N.B THIS IS NOT METAPHORICAL: IT IS CATEGORICAL.)
Australian hordes. It speaks volumes, by the way,
for the “Health” Exhibition, that that show
should have so interfered with the attendance at
the Aquarium, where the Phrynes and Aspasias of
London ordinarily congregate, that the Aquarium
directors, for the first time during years, should
find themselves unable to declare a dividend.
We have it on good authority that there is
at the present time, in the police force of Sydney,
a man who should be able to put down, Cumber-
land style, any man to be found in the colonies.
He ranked high in the old country, but does not
care to make a splash here until he finds a foe and
money worth tackling. Could not something be
done to bring Blackburn and him together ? The
gate-money for a real good match would be
worth something considerable. It would be a
“ throw ” in for the man who won.
Despite the wind, that tried to extract
amuscmeut from turning important garments
inside out, the Moonee Valley races passed off suc-
cessfully on Saturday. The course is a small one,
but is very neat, well laid out, and looked after.
There were six events, and money was free, the
favourites as a rule justifying the trust reposed in
them. In the Steeplechase, Mr. Martin’s Alhambra,
a promising young horse, fell and broke his back;
on the metropolitan courses it is generally the
“ backers ” who fall and get broke.
The cyclists’ camp recently held at Harro*
gate, was, judging from the tricyclist’s accouqt, a
signal success. Fifty-four tents were erected.
Various were the titles assigned by the occupants
to th«ir domiciles. There was the “Swe»t P
Villa;” two thistles were planted outside, and a
very small turf into which were stuck two dilapi-
dated roses forming the garden, rbove which
figured a gigantic inscription: “Please to keep off
the grass,” “ Do not pluck the flowers.”
This is almost equal to a snake story“ A
young man bathing in a creek below Moncton,
N. 8., was chased to land by a shark three to four
feet long. A stick being thrust towards it, the
fish seized it in its teeth, when it was drawn upon
the beach and killed.” Now we don’t feel sur-
prised at even a shark taking a stick in his drop of
water, but what we do stick at is the shark hold-
ing on to the stick until he was hauled out of the
briny for one of the fellows to stick; but, then,
we are such sticklers for truth, you know.
At the annual meeting of the members of
the Warwick Cricket Club, Mr. H. H. Hiddlestone
carried away the President's trophy for the highest
batting average; his figures amounted to 37 7 for
all match's. Mr. James Kellick’s trophy for high-
est individual score, and Mr. J. Cullen's for highest
aggregate score, both fell to Mr. A. Gregory. Mr.
J. Davis was the recipient of Mr. D. Ogilvie’s prize
for the greatest number of double-figure scores.
Mr. D. Ogilvie carried off both Club and President’s
trophies for best bowiiDg average; and Mr. W. J.
Clarke’s trophy for best fieldsman was awarded to
Mr. J. Rigg.
At Southampton they have a lovely ceme-
tery surrounded by a delightful racecourse, and in
old days the blending of the Burial Service with
“The field a pony” was, if not pretty, at least
effective. But all things have ah end, and when
at the funeral of a most charming lady, when
every head !was bowed with trrief and sob 3 rent
the air, the chief mourner and widower was seen
to solemnly climb over the cemetery rails and
haggle W4h $ for 5 to 4, when that
worthy would only offer evens, Southampton
arose as one man and put a stop to that merry
meeting'.
Here’s a chance for some of our all-round
men to pick up a soft £5OO. Mr. Wallace Rodgers,
in the Spouting Life of 12th August, says "he
would like to make one match before he retires
from athletic circles, and is willing to shoot at 100
pigeons, play 1000 up at English billiards, and swim
half a mile in open water (sea for preference)
against any amateur or professional, for a oup
and a bet, if desired, of not more than £5OO. If
any colonial will accept the challenge, the match
can be made In 12 months time.” Now, then, Aus-
tralia, wake up and send home another advertise-
ment for the colonies.
It has always been a puzzle to properly
handicap the contestants in a tea-kettle race, which
is one between steam yachts. The latest system
devised is this. The velocity of a steam yacht is
assumed to be as the cube Toot of the quotient of
the product of the area of her grate surface, and
the constant due to the character of combustion
divided by the cube root of the square of her
gross tonnage, and subtracted from the number of
firemen scalded or ruptured. This method is so
simp'e that a child can calculate to a fraction what
the Ena can allow Potts and Paul’s iron horse-
trouglj with the stove-pipe in it.
Iu the first innings of Gloucester in a match
against Notts, commenced on July 31, Shaw took
eight wickets for 29 runs. He was in particularly
fl e form with the ball, and besides achieving the
hat trick by sending back Townsend, Painter, and
Page with consecutive balls, he nearly repeated
the feat in dismissing Fairbanks, Boughton, and
Francis with four successive balls. The veteran
Norts bowler’s analysis tor the innings—eight
wickets at a cost of three and five-eighth runs per
wicket—can worthily be placed beside many of
his other phenomenal exhibitions. In the second
innings he again performed the hat trick.
The exhibition of trotting-horses at Moore
Park drew together a good attendance, considering
the day of the week. The style shown by the
horses satisfied most persons, and therois no doubt
that the promotion of trotting is a step in the right
direction. If a horse is not good enough for
racing, he is good enough for work, and that is
more than can be said of nags bred for galloping—
ai a rule, they are useless weeds, tit only for the
one thing, that is, to carry a light weight for a
short distance. Another benefit of the trotter is
that hie owner can get some use and amusement
out of him when not engaged in actual raeing
work.
The Melbourne Cricket Club have held
their annual meeting, and presented a very credit-
able account of this year s work. The roll con-
tains now 1672 members. The net receipts for the
year were £4529 10s. lOd. Some reverses were ex-
perienced, the burning of the grand stand afieot-
ing the intentions of the Club considerably. A
resolution was adopted at the meeting authorizing
a loan of £lO.OOO to be raised for the new grand
stand and other improvements. During the year,
the senior eleven of the Club plaved 47 matches,
with a result of 18 wins and 23 draws; and the
junior eleven played 66 matches, with 31 wins and
24 draws.
When Kaiser Wilhelm goes on a “sport-
ing ” expedition, the guests are carefully selected,
their capacity for riding or shooting being entirely
secondary to their place in the order of preced-
ence, or in the service of the Crown. Everything
is regulated by precedent, and the directing func-
tionary knows at least the correct number of birds
or beasts which ought to fall to the share of eaoh
person present. Hence—owing to the discipline
which controls everything in Deutschland—it in-
' ariably happens that the Kaiser is most success-
ful in bringing down game, and the other great
personages lucky in something like a ratio to
their rank.
The annual contest for the English long-
distance swimming championship (course, from
Putney Bridge to Charing Cross Railway-bridge,
Similes), took place on 9th August, and attracted
seven competitors—amongst whom were Itter, the
holder, A. F. Bettlnson, and G. Bell, who had all
distinguished themselves in previous contests. So
far as the expected tight between the holder and
801 l was concerned, the spectators were in no way
disappointed. Both men swam splendidly. 801 l
avenged his defeat of last year. His line stamina
enabled him to keep in front of Itter nearly all the
way. Winner’s time, 1 hour lOmin. Itter was
59sec. behind.
A most remarkable accident oocurred to
Le* Shawer’a horse Haddington, by imp. Hadding-
ton out of Prairie, Flame who, while running in a
mile-heat race at Grass Valley, California, on July
sth, brose both his hind legs at the pasterns,
through making too short a turn; and the poor
brute stood on the stumps until shot. This re-
minds us of a still more remarkable case that
occurred in New South Wales. A young fellow
was can ering along slowly on a soft, level piece of
road, when he found his horse go suddenly lame,
and on jumping off to see what was the matter,
was astounded to find that the cannon bone of the
hear fore leg had broken.
Jack Bourke, of England, had four rounds,
Queensberry rules, with Mike Cleary, the contes-
tuits to divide the gate money. The place was not
crowded, as it was reported that the slogging was
not for “ blood ” but for science only, and as no
great damage was done, it looks as if they were
right in their conjectures. Anyhow, Bourke
proved himself far and away the best man, playing
all over Cleary like a hail-storm. Cleary tried hat d
to get his heavy right in, but was stopped easily
by Bourke, who only used his left for hitting—in
fact, he was so superior that Cleary seemed quite
cowed. Old England is still able to produce a good
’un, even if she cannot reach quite to the top of
the tree.
Billy Madden, proprietor of Madden’s
Athletic Hall, New York, has announced that he
will give five handsome gold medals for the ama-
teur boxing champions at different weights. The
affair is open to all amateurß, no entrance fee
charged, and Charles Mitchell will act as referee.
Lightweights not over 1401 b.; middle-weights not
over 1581 b.; heavy-weights will be shakebags, no
limit. The affair will be conducted under exactly
the same rules as those employed by Madden in
England, when Mitchell won the championship. A
number of pros, will also oblige. We should like
to see our amateur who made such a show of the
pros, during the Miller-Foley combination take a
hand in this little deal.
The North Bendigo cricket club met one
night last week, and gave tbem'selvFs nwav in the
direction, of big potatoes. The glorification was
not without cause, however, as their first eleven
had only one defeat chalked up against it for the
last year. Among the new rules they drew up at
the meeting was one whldh regulates the number
of ladies each member may bring with him to the
ftFn nd ' st:^. nd ’, Owing to the exigencies of spitcei
the number is fixed at two. This decision max
meet the rifficulty, but we think a surer principle
to go upon would have been that of measurement.
Obviously, all ladles are not equally—. But.
better give the new rule a trial. This would not
have suited Brigham Young.
The Jackson and Farnan affair ended in a
bubble, and the police should have
interfered and stopped the affair when the first
pll l ce * as it was evident that the roughs
had determined not to let the Sydney irtan go to
the wall, i hat Jackson ought to win there dan bo
no two opinions* as Ifarnan haS no sdience, and
when he missed some of his right, round-arm hltsi
Wouid turn completely round; but he hasheavV
hitting power, and is evidently a bit of a glutton
his gruel—a quality which the
r den J y d 2 es no £ Possess, being liable to
get out of order about the stomach. We should
like to see a match made with Foley, as if he trot
any advantage, ho would be sure to “foley” if
An excellent case of “the biter bit” oo
curred at a country town, some little time since
a Dutcher backed a man to run another for <£2o!
and, as he was known to have little or no chance
ot course any amount of money was about to lay
against him. The smart butcher then squared the
opposition ped., and got over £3OO on his man i but,
there would be a row and cries ot
swindle, refused to lay a penny unless the
money was down. This was done, and-ohl crUel
tate-tbe other man ran square , winning by any
distance [as ho Silked. Harry Rickards’ “Mad
Butcher was nothing to our lively friend’s per-
formance. The ped., however, made himself scarce
as soon as possible, for fear he might be cut out of
iuxurc events.
fln-Vi'T 17 wi ? d * u P made of a glove-
fight between j. P. C'ow, of Denver, and G. A.
Morrison, of Leadvilie, for the championship of
Colorado. There were about 300 present, and the
fighting was very rough. Clow at last began to
get the best of it, and Morrison hung on his neck,
and refusing to let go, got some terrible uppei?
an£ 9 +u rom d s w ' 4 ? cene of confusion ensued,
arid the crowd rushed the ring; one man struck
Clow over the ropes, and got it on the nose in re-
turn. Some of Clow’s friends then attacked him.
and a regular free fight ensued, and Sheriff Graham
and his force of men at last got things quiet. The
tmng would have been a regular slaughtering
match, had not the sheriff disarmed all the specbS
tors before he allowed the fight to begin.
It is strange that Sydney has notgotanv
balls for sparring similar to those in Melbourne
A well-conducted place ought to pay handsomelv"
Small prizes, and trophii s for amateurs, would
o f sloggers out, and there is no doubt
that the attendance would be considerable and
constant. Any steps that will tend to do awev
with our present cowardly style of mobbing and
assaulting should be encouraged, and there is no
doubt that teaching bo s to fight fairly and
honourably according to recognised rules would
prevent the growing generation from fal ing as
low aa our present youth. In our young davs
when boxing was a recognised institution, a man
would get fair play in my British oommunitv—
now he gets hob-nail boots and gibbers.
Several of the Australian team are now
strange to say, rather in love with W. G. Grace’
who, for apparently well-defined reasons, has been
by no means popular in the past. Thev sav that
they like W.G. better than anyone they have met
in England; that he is a keen sportsman, but, a fair
and most manly antagonist, and one who oniv
needs to be known well to be thoroughly admired
Hut this didn't prevent Murdoch. Spoil, Blackham"
an d several others getting out of their little beds at
the Tavistock Hotel early on the morning of the
third day of the big Ail-BnglaDd match to prav
that there might be a deucedly damp wicket—not
too damp, however, for gate-money—for “the
Doctor and their other English friends. Spoil
and Palmer, in particular, made their orisoDs most
devoutly on this head, but the prayers of the
wicked availeth not.
While the Hon. Alfred Lyttelton was en-
gaged in the exhilarating task of fieldiDg against
Murdoch and M’Donnell, on the first day of the
last great All-Wngiand match, an individual, re-
spectably-attired, with an elaborate brown mous-
tache, called at his residence, saying that he had
just come from Mr. Lyttelton’s chambers at the
tne Temple, and that as Mr. I>« had been summoned
from the cricket field to £0 down to West Sussex
for the purpose of making a gentleman’s will, he
wanted bis great coat and umbrella at once. After
some hesitation, the servant gave up those articles
to him, whereupon, armed with Mr. Lyttelton’s
coat and gingham, he proceeded to Lord Harris’
house, and succeeded, under anether pretext in
obtaining possession of a coat of hislordship’s of a
more sporting character. “It his hard.’’ writes Mr
Lyttelton, “ that our households should be strip-
ped while we toil, in however humble an arena,
for the nation.” ’
All boating men will be glad to hear that
our old friend, Will. Johnson, the late owner of
Lizzie, is once more restored to hi« usual health.
Mr. Johnson had a very severe attack of paralysis
in the right arm, but a trip into the country has
put him all straight again. We hope to see him in
command of a good boat sood, as he is too constant
and valuabie a man to drop out of aquatics. And,
by the bye, we seo that a young daughter of his,
not yet 16 years of age. has done a first-class like-
ness of Beach. The picture is 1 fe-size, and is un-
mistakable—the determined look aod stolid face
being well defined. The drawing is one any ama-
teur might bo proud of, and when it is known that
the young lady has never even seen Beach, it is the
more seeing creditable she has succeeded so well
with nothing to guide her but a small photo. We
also notice that Mr. Johnson’s son, 9 years, won a
silver cross fit his school sports for a race run bv
boys under 11 years of age.
Years ago a very shrewd personage was
travelling in a railway oarriage, and as the train
sped on to the race meeting for which the travellers
were bound, he, with much apparent carelessness,
played with the tassel of the window-blind.
After a time he ceased; but presently the conver-
sation turned-perhaps he turned it-to carriage-
fittings, and he expressed a wonder as to the
number of threads in a tassel. Various guesses
*? a
subject. He was prepared to take odds he could
guess, or at least nearer than anyone present;
and, money bomg staked, he guessed that there
were twenty-one. “Under twenty, certainly,” a
man opposite declared, and on this more bets were
made. When counted, it appeared that there were
nineteen. The first speculator had, in fact, care-
fully counted, and the second, suspecting the trick,
had, when observed, dissembled, and with equal
care cut off a couple of the threads.
Donald Dinnie has been giving it rather
roughiyto Mi.Herinthe Australasian; he says:
lor athletic contests throughout the world,
records show that I have won over 7500 contests,
and the Professor cannot give records of gaining
one-twentiuth of that number. I will wrestle, lift
Z u ™ b - bel L 9 ’u tl l r ™ keavy and light hammers, put
heavy and light stones, throw half-cwts., toss the
caber, dance, play tbe violin, run and leap: lam
prepared, by a substantial deposit in your hands,
to match any man breathing at either of the eight
contests singly. Some athletes depend more on
newspapers for their name than on the perform-
ances they accomplish. I have been now 31 vears
before the public as an athlete, but in Great
Britain athletes get up their names only by deeds,
and not by meanly courting the press for natter-
ing reports of their performances. In conclusion,
me state my money is still waiting to back
Mr. Thomas or myself to wrestle any man in Aus-
tralia tor any reasonable sum.- Yours, &c., Donald
DINNIK.
Summing things up, in a king article, the
Standard coolly says that “ average English bats-
men are the equals, if not the superiors, of any
pic/ced players who can be sent from Australia;”
that, on the other hand, a certain finesse in the
bowling, together with a Verve, decisiveness, and


Name.
CO .
a w
o
u as
sj-2
sj&<
CD
*
fl
5
a
| l'imes JNot
| Out.
S
a S
•■H .P
CD ~
D £
S
1 Most in a
1 Match.
CD
P
P
«
Average.
W. L. Murdoch
23
39
4
211
211
1105
30.20
H. J.H. Scott
25
40
7
102
100
780
33 21
P. S. M'Donnell
25
43
2
103
103
901
23.18
W. Midwinter .
24
3(3
3
07
107
005
20.5
A. C. Bannerman —
25
41
2
94
94
757
19.10
G. Giffen
25
41
1
113
120
7 ■‘3
18.13
G. J. lionnor
25
42
3
95*
105
707
18 5
J. M. Blackham
21
33
2
09
90
500
10.4
G. B Palmer
25
38
8
08*
68
409
13.29
H. F. Boyle
23
31
11
48
54
2381 11.18
W. H. Cooper
4
6
3
8*
13
31
101
F. R. Spofforth
25
3(5
(3
37
52
291
9.21
G. Alexander
4
4
1
10
10
17
5.2
Name.
Balls.
CO
p
p
»
Maidens.
Wickets.
Average.
J. M. Blackham —
12
8
1
8.0
G. Alexander
72
24
7
2
12.0
P. R. Spofforth* ...
4,751
1,991
457
153
13.2
G. E. Palmerf
4,295
1,849
394
116
15.109
H. F. Boyle
2,218
913
214
52
17.29
2.698
1,298
223
61
21.17
W. Midwinter
812
356
80
11
32 4
H. J. H. Scott
200
134
9
3
44.2
W. H. Cooper
358
208
17
4
52.0
G.J. Bonnor§
280
170
16
2
850
A. C. Bannerman ..
20
17
i
P. S. M'Donnell . ..
40
27
4
W. L. Murdoch
20
25
TO GLEANSE THE SKIM
Scalp and Blood of Itching, Scaly, Pimply, Scrofu-
lous, Inherited and Contagious Humors, Blood
Poisons, Ulcers, Abscesses, and Infantile Skin Tor-
tures, the Cuticura Remedies are Infallible. Cu-
ticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier, ex-
pels disease germs from the blood and perspiration,
and thus removes the cause. Cuticura, the great
Skin Cure, instantly alla> s Itching and Inflamma-
tion, clears the Skin and Scalp, heals Ulcers and
Sores, restores the Complexion. Cuticura Soap,
an exquisite Skin Beautilier, is indispensible in
treating skin diseases, and for rough, chapped, or
greasy skin, blackheads, blotches, aud baby
humors. Cuticura Remedies are the only infal-
lible Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers. Sold
everywhere. Cuticura, 50 cents; Soap, 25 cents;
Resolvent, $l. Potter Drug and Chemical Co.,
Boston, Mass. '
As well expect life without air, as health
without pure blood. Cleanse the blood with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“ otjgh on Corns.”—Ask for Wells’ “ Rough
on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, permanent
cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses Moss and
Co., Sydney, Agents.
Catarrh of the Bladder.—Stinging irritation,
inflamation, all Kidney and similar Complaints,
cured by “ Buchu-paiba.” At druggists. Moses
Moss snd Co., Sydney, Agents.
Ask fifty ladies in succession what Per-
fume they consider the most delicate, the most
pure and salubrious, the most permanent, and in
all respects the most desirable, aud forty-nine cf
them will answer Murray and Lanman’s Florida
Water.
NOTICE OE REMOVAL
ram Ml CUTLER
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-streefc,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGK-STREET.
£IO,OOO.—MELBOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.!
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney,
desires to point out to the public generally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All ptrsons,
whether male or female, holding- a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
the books of the Club. 3nd. Every opportunity is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
drawing, who choose to make application for
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, one is almost sure to win
one or other.
Plan of Distribution :
First horse ... £3OOO
Second „ ... 1000
Third „ .. 500
Starters divide.. 500
Non-starters .. 260
The above facts and figures speak for themselves,
and it will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £3ojo, by far the largest
offered in any consultation, is a fortune, which will
be secured by investing 10s. ; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round sum; our third carries off £500;
and our prizes are farin advanceof all competitors
for public support. Our drawing takes place on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it will take place before. Result of
drawing sent at once to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do:
if gold be sent, register letter. I? end addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Address—J. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Agent, Tattersall’s Buildings, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
P.S. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
of the winner of our first grand prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
great prizes in this grand Consultation.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “MALABAR” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SERIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THE “Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thanks to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their wtll-acknowledged
strict attention, coupled wl h thorough integrity,
to make the “Malabar ” Consultations by far the
At the request of a large number of our sub-
scribers we have arranged to make our Shares but
ss. each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand Pounds.
We shall send also a single ticket to any address
on receipt of 55., which will entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus free on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed;
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Tickets sent by return post. Address, by letter
only,
G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
tho most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. 0. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.u. Box 673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen's, No.
11. 52 Castlereagh-strcet, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OK IN PERSON.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
»ar- Teeth painlessly extracted by Lauphinp Gas
Spray, Metbyline, and Chloroforuj.
promptitude in fielding is due to the Australians;
that the typical English bowler, say Peate, while
mechanically perfect, yet “lacks the art to con-
ceal art,” and puzzle the batsman as to ihe inten-
tion of the delivery; while the ideal bowler,
“Spofforth, seems to have this control of appear-
ances -it is impossible to tell by his action or ex-
pression what he means to do, or how he means
to do it.” Which, we hope, is not intended to con-
vey the vile insinuation that “ Spoff's ” face is
vacant and expressionless. “ Palmer excels them
all in one important particular; he is that is to
say, one of the few men who can bowl with a break
from the on and a break from the off, it being
common with him to send a ball on the leg that
will break on the wicket. This perfection of skill,
reducing cricket to the exactness of feneing or
billiards, is the result only of cultivation such as
our Australian cousins have evidently brought to
bear on the game.”
Gall! At the “Olcl Stagers” amateur
theatricals, held at Canterbury during the cricket
week, our dear friend, Lord Harris, came forward,
while over his head a red banner, with the word
“ Invicta ” inscribed ©n it, was held by two of his
companions in the field, and delivered a few lines,
concluding—
“ Farewell, Australia! Now we’ve fairly licked her,
She’ll bear us witness, Kent is still ‘ Invicta ’.”
Then there was sung a song—
“ All hail who enter here,
The gallant Kentish crew;
They’ve got the bats, they’ve got the fields,
They’ve got the bowlers, too;
The match of ’B4
Has wiped out ’B2,
And Kent has proved that she can beat Australia.”
A day or two later, the ’ead of the ’Ouse of ’Arris
was on view at Kennington Oval, flielding for
Murdoch, M’Donnell, and Scott, in the All-England
match. “ ’Off’s yer poor feet, my lud ? ”
The following statement of the batting
and bowling averages of the Australian Eleven in
England are compiled from all matches played up
to and inclusive of the last match v. All-England :
Batting Averages.
* Signifies not out.
Bowling Averages.
* Bowled 34 no-balls. + Bowled 4 no-balls and 1
wide, t Bowled 2 no-balls. § Bowled 8 wides.
“Pendragon” writes, apropos of the row
at the Australian's v. Players’ match :—“I have
reason to know that an account, more or less
coloured, was wired away at once to Australia, in
the interests of those who thirst to repay the Eng-
lish Press for what it said about the ‘ larrikin
outrage’ upon some members of a team which
visited Australia a few years ago. Let us hope this
account did not state that the demonstration was
directed wholly and solely against the Australian
cricketers. That, as everybody knows who knows
anything about Oval arrangements, it certainly
was not. It was not directed against anybody in
particular; if there was any direct feeling shown,
it was shown, and that most decidedly, against the
Surrey executive Professionals
though the Australians be, and amateurs as the
Surrey Clubmen are by virtue of their being
Surrey Clubmen, we do not find that the Austra-
lians have been allowed any pecuniary advantage
in the dealings which have taken place between
them. Nor can any one else who has had business
relations with the Surrey Club conscientiously say
that its executive is ever prepared to lose sight of
the main chance, or give up its hold on the loaves
and fishes. O, yes; the secretary ordered that no
money should be taken at the gates aft«r the ad-
journment for luncheon on the Ist inst. I have
received what purports to be a piece ©f evidence
as to this order, and so shall be glad to know from
the secretary himself whether it was sent out be-
fore the trouble began, or was merely one of the
results of the trouble. There is unfortunately no
reason to doubt that the desire for gate-money is
far too widespread among athetic clubs generally,
and is, in a variety of ways, singularly destructive
of the true sportsmanlike spirit.”
In view of the fact that the London Press,
to a paper, stated on the day before the match that
the English team was a thoroughly representative
One, and that the home side should win, the follow-
ing letter—a fair specimen of much current litera-
ture on the subject—addressed to the Morning
Post, will be read with interest. The italics are
ours:—“ If England had had a proper representa-
tive eleven, we should have either won the match
or made it a draw considerably in our favour. The
worst choice in such a match was Lyttelton. How
can he be in form, scarcely having ppyed for two
years, and sitting in the vitiated atmosphere of the
Law Courts nearly all the year ? He, unfortunatelv,
gave Murdoch a life at 46, which cost us nearly 170
runs. Sherwin would h <ve taken the opportunity
easily. Why are not cricketers taught the art of
catching and fielding? This would be quite as
valuable as so over-much batting at the nets. Had
our men held the catches given them, wo should
have won at least five or six matches from the
Australians that we have lost. Why are not the
representative, elevens of All-England selected by
a proper committee, and not left to three men, as
was the case in the last match-viz., to two of the
Walkersand a Mr. Burbidge ? Lord Harris never
ought to have played. We throw our matches
away by sheer mismanagement. This one hears on
all sides —Yours, &e., Fair Play.” The ingenu-
ous writer forgets that he can’t eat his cake and
have it, too. Lyttelton’s bowling was most Jeffec-
tive, even if his fielding wasn’t perfect. He got
four wickets for about 20 runs, whereas the other
six wickets cost 530 runs or thereabouts. England
had her best men, otherwise she’d have been licked
into a cocked hat. You can't get more than eleven
men into a team It's all very fine to talk about
the advantage enjoyed by the Australians in play-
ing together so continuously; but, suppose Mur-
doch had had all the calent of the colonies to pick
from as he went along during the tour, what could
he not have done at times when several of his men
were stale and not fit to play for sour apples ?
Murdoch’s score in the last great match
was the highest ever totalled in a contest of similar
importance. So far as can be made out, the Aus-
tralians, goaded on by the plentiful crop of news-
paper sneers, had made up their minds to polish
off John Bull decisively; while Grace, Harris, and
Co. had sworn by all the gods that they’d wipe the
floor with the carcase of the Australian kangaroo.
Blackham, when met on the day before the match
and asked “ how things were going to go ?” said,
‘We’ll give them an almighty hiding if we have
anything like fair luck. We always lick ’em at the
Oval.” When interrogated as to “ Why at the
Oval?” the great wicket-keeper could only say
that the surroundings of the place seemed to suit
him and his colleagues better than the rose-scented
atmosphere of Lord’s. “ Yes,” repeated Black-
ham, screwing up one eye, “ I know we shall lick
’em at the Oval.” It is no secret that, notwith-
standing the prevalence of such delicate atten-
tions as the supply of hot-house grapes and soda
and “ fizz ” ad lib on big match-days—just think
of Midwinter dealing with an old-china plate of
hot-house grapes!—most of the members of the
team don’t now-a-days feel by any means at home
in England. They have all come to be regarded as
professional cricketers in the English sense of the
term, and there is consequently a lack of those
domestic hospitalities which in days of yore did so
much to mskG things pleasant all round. The big
match was a crucial one—for, had our men not
done something huge, they would for ever have
lost, their reputation, and been condescendingly
spoken of by such blue-blooded rags as the
Standard and Globe as “ a—aw—fair game for a
- aw—country team.” In fact, the former paper
even now cannot conceal its mortification at the
exhibition made by Murdoch, M’Donnell, and Scott
of the English bowling, for it coolly remarks that
“such performances go far towards reinstating the
Australian Eleven as a first-class team!” Aw! The
London papers, as a whole, did their level best to
prove that the “draw,” far from being a moral
defeat, was really a victory for England; but the
Daily News, which, taken all round, is more im-
partial than its fellows, alludes in a sub-article to
the “cricketers of England (an England far from
merry, alas! after this affsiir of the Australians!)”
In New York the “great” six-day walking
match has been brought to an end. It was at first
intended for a trial of endurance between Charles
Rowell, the English walker, and Patrick Fitzger-
ald, an Irishman by birth, and an alderman by pro-
fession in the little town of Long Island.’city, near
New York. But a dozen men finally entered, and
pnblic interest was greatly excited, especially as
Rowell, who had been announced as a sure and
easy * inner, was passed by his chief rival midway
in the race, then came within a few miles of over-
taking him, and was at last beaten by only eight
miles The Irishman made the remarkable record
of 010 miles, as follows: First day, 126; second, 100;
third, 110; fourth, 111%; fifth, 88%: sixth, 73%. His
best previous record was made in 1881, and was 583
miles in six days. He has also a record for short-
distance running of 11 miles in 59min. 50%sec., the
beat in the States. He is an odd-looking, ill-built,
round-shouldered, and stooping fellow, 38 years
old, and weighing before the race 1651 b. One of
the competitors was a young Indian from the Far
West, a finely-made half-savage, with every ap-
A HERO.
FOND MOTHER: “YOU’VE BIN IN THE WATER AGAIN, YOU TIRESOME LITTLE-.
AH, WAIT TILL I GET YOU HOME.”
HOPEFUL SON: “WELL, BUT I GOT OUT A BOY THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN DROWNDED,
I DID.”
FOND MOTHER (softened): “YE DID? WHO WAS IT?”
HOPEFUL SON: “MYSELF.” (Cuts.)
pearance of strength, whose confidence In his own
powers was great. But he almost at once dropped
to the tail of the string of walkers, and gave out
long _efore the close.
The members of the Sydney Amateur
Canvas Dingy Club held their opening seance at
Ciomorne, on Saturday last. Notwithstanding the
inclemency and uncertainty of the weather, they
and their friends mustered to the number of about
eighty. The steamer Prince of Wales carried the
visitors, the bulk of the members going over in
their own canvas bags. The commodore, like
other great men, scorned to be in time, so kept all
hands waiting for a solid hour. Among the boats
present we noticed Olivette, Latona, Maggie,
Fedora, E-tella, Grand Flaneur, Carloita, Raven,
Undine and Ettie. On taking our seats at the
groaning table, we thought the captain of the
German warship had been secured for chairman,
and had come in full uniform, bar the swabs. On
a second glance, however, we discovered that the
elaborate uniform clothed the sylph-like form of
J. J. Richardson, Esq., who is not only commander
but absolute owner of a perfect fleet of sailing and
steam vessels. The dinner was a great success,
and after the speech-making a very nice finish was
made by the presentation of a neat address and
massive diamond locket to Mr. Herbert Downs,
the hard-working hon. sec. Some of the sailors are
wonderful trenchermen—one lad was shovelling in
the prog with a broad-bladed knil'e, which he filled
from point to handle. If he can only bail out as
skilfully, there is no dingy in the hart our that
would fill under him.
On 11th August, the day that the great
Australia v. All-England match commenced, ihe
weather in London was desperately hot. The chief
end of the average man was to sit down and drink
something with ice in it. Sunstrokes were plenti-
ful, yet at the Oval black belltoppers and black
coats were de rigueur- for “ all Englishmen believe
that perspiration and respectability are synonym-
ous terms.” The thermometer went up to 150 deg.,
and in the city was seen the curious spectacle of
cartloads of Japanese fans being retailed along the
sidewalks at a penny each. The universal feeling
was one of—
“ Adduxere sitim tempora Vergili.”
Longing for liquids both laymen and clergy lie.
Off to the shores of the rhythmical surge ’ll I,
Bt eaking so dreamily, lazily, dirgily.
Free from the strife of tongues, never a word
shall I
Utter, but list to the sea-skimming bird shall I.
Oft from the green depths all gleaming emerge
fresh fruits, and on cieam, and on curds
Dream of romances that never occurr’d shall I;
Then back refreshed to the brain-working herd
shall I.
On the first two days of the match, 28,903 persons
paid for admission, £1445 being taken at the gates;
in addition, the pavilion was packed. The gate
money was divided equally between the Aus-
tralians and the Surrey Club, the latter taking all
receipts for reserved stands and enclosures. The
wickets of the Australians, whose gigantic innings
lasted just nine and a-half hours, fell thus:—One
for 15. two for 158, three for 365, four for 432, five
for 454, six for 494, seven for 532, eight for 545, and
nine for 549. Thus 417 of the 551 runs were made
between the fall of the first and fourth wickets,
and runs came almost at the rate of one a minute.
Eight Australians were caught out, and the only
time the wicket was hit in the two days was when
Spofforth was bowled by a lob. Strangely enough,
Spofforth’s wicket fell to Lyttelton, to whom the
“Demon” returned the compliment in the En-
glishmen’s innings. There have been three occa-
sions in a first-rate match in which three individual
scores of over 100 have been made. The first of
these was at Sydney, in an intercolonial match,
when the N.S.W Eleven scored 775—Murdoch, Gar-
rett, and Jones being the men who reached three
figures. The other two occasions were both this
year—one when the M.C.C. beat Australia at Lord’s
and W. G. Grace, A. G. Steel, and Barnes were the
successful batsmen; and the other at Cambridge
for Yorkshire against the University, when Hall,
Bates, and Grimshaw each scored over 100. On
each of these occasions, however, the three 100’s
were not all made in one day; and the peculiarity
of the cricket of 11th August—the thing which dis-
tinguishes it over every other—is that three indi-
vidual scores of over 100 runs each were made in
one and the same day. It is further without pre-
cedent that three of the first four names on the
batting order should each have over 100 runs
against them, and that, while the second wicket
added 143 to the total, the third should have earned
205 runs more, and still be infact.
The Trappist monks have opened a branch
of their famous monastery in Ireland. The order
lead a very queer kind of life. Rising at two
o’clock every morning, winter and summer, they
pray in their church till half-past three. Their
outdoor work begins with the earliest light. Their
food consists of vegetables dressed without oil or
butter, and followed only by a little fruit. Their
supper consists of bread ana water. Their bed i
a straw pallet, with one hard coverlet. We sup-
pose that, as the members of this particular
branch are Irish, they are potato-1 rappists.
Now we begin to understand why Henry
George did not see his way to visit the Australian
Colonies for the propagation of his Land Nationali-
sation theories. He has evidently been reading the
reports which appear in the country press of the
local debating societies; and, finding how easily
those brilliant debaters knock the bottom out of
his best arguments, he wisely determined to con-
fine his teachings to the benighted people of Great
Britain and America. We say wisely, advisedly,
for have not the profound thinkers of Corowa
tackled the question of “ Freehold property in
land” (vide Cobowa Distress) ? and after strug-
gling heroically with that mighty problem, they
have decided by a majority of one in a thin house
that Mr. Geors e knows no more about the subject
than a hen would hold in her shut fist. True, the
Irrepressible and eloquent Clayton held up his end
of the stick gamely on behalf of the absent
reformer; but what show had he against the cul-
tured Jenson, the erudite Oswald, or the learned
Holman ? None whatever; and, consequently, the
matter is settled at once and for ever. We feel
that the country is safe so long as the Corowa
debating society keeps its head cool, but we
tremble for the consequences should it be other-
wise.


jpURNITDRB SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
and
ALL FURNITURE, HAT6TANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library fur’niture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAiRS. ’
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. '
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &o.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O'Connell streets, Sydney.
IIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
J Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
two chair «- The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with slivered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble ton
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
withswing glass attached; PEDESTAL CUPI
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT dHAIRS, 16 guineas
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s'
6d.; Dining Tables, from 80s.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d •
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s.; Cedar Sideboards.’
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10a. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
55
X?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Blaok and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Ives; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly hnishea tn
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
o
fNHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\J just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-street.
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, lor
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
TVRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAiTcHAIRS.—
1J A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-Bt.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
8
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CIAII
Patented.
'-rlir*
This chair adjusts itself to any position, froia
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash- strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
B
AGATELLK BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
"ITIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
X) TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Oonnell-streets.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Com
Bell and Spring streets,
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 36b. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
w
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
VJT INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
B
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complet*
Assortment : bast make, low nst orices,
SOCIAL
There was a very large attendance at the
Railway Ball on Friday. It was clear the promo-
ters made a mistake In not having the Exhibition
Building, as in previous years, instead of the new
Masonic Hall. This latter was not nearly large
enough, and the result was that the committee
had to close the doors against some who wanted
to oome at the last moment, to prevent those in-
side from being too crowded. It is impossible to
guess beforehand how many people will come to a
nail. But this railway ball has become so popular
that numbers of outsiders desire to attend it, to
enjoy a jolly dance, in addition to the large
patronage it receives from the department, and
in future the Exhibition can be safely taken.
With the increased attendance, the committee
in no way relax their vigilance of manage-
ment, and on Friday night the most watch-
ful care was given to every detail. The only
real defect was having to trudge up to the sky-
high supper-room every time one wanted refresh-
ment; and by the time a man had escorted four-
teen successive ladies up and down, the climbing
began to get rather monotonous. The fault, of
courso, was not the committee’s, but that of the
building. It might be possible, when there is an
extra large ball, to have the two cloak-rooms on
either side of the entrance door used as. supper-
rooms. The masters of ceremonies were Messrs.
W. H. Chandler, D. M’Grath, and 8. Stanton, and
though only amateurs, they were quite efficient.
Messrs. W. G. Pearce and M. J. Daley, the joint
secretaries, lent every assistance. Callaghan pro-
vided supper, and the Young Australian band
served up the music capitally. To show that they
keep up to the times, they gave a very pretty new
waltzJfrom the “Merry Duchess.” There was a
Hanlan schottishe; but Beach does not seem
to have permeated the ballroom to any extent as
yet. The number of Redfern girls present at the
Dali proved what an influence the railway young
men exert in their own district. Oho of them was
a charming little short-hair from Castlereagh-
streot, with one of the prettiest dresses there-a
pink satin with pearled collar, and soft pink skirt.
Another was from Goold-street, most prettily
dressed in the fancy character of Rowena, from
the "Merry Duchess;” and a third was a “son-
sie” Highland Lassie, full of dancing and spirit.
The most conspicuous dress in the room was worn
by a very tall blonde—cerise satin bodice, and
skirt of cerise tarletan, the scallops edged with
black laco and caught up with sprays of silver
leaves. Some ladies said there was too much
colour; but they were most likely jealous because
the dress was so stylishly made. A little blonde
from Woolloomooloo danced gracefully in her
heliotrope satin and white lace, and was very
fair and piquant. A married lady, tall and
fair, wore a fine black broche and silk,
trimmed with much fruit; and another tall fair
girl in black grenadine, • dged with terra ootta
lace, looked as if she is single at present—but she
shouldn’t remain so long. In olaret skirt and
white muslin, with a sauoy-looking hat, was a par-
ticularly pretty German Peasant; a Daughter of
the Regiment was neat and fascinating, and Nancy
Lees were present in shoals. An excellent brunette
dauoer wore a most dainty dress of ivory figured
silk and ostrich feathers just tinged with colour,
the skirt of spotted muslin in small flounoes. An-
other good dancer, named after the queen of
flowers, wore a oordedsilk of orange colour, which
trailed very far behind—in fact, it was a “special
train.” A substantial lady wore a maroon satin
and fine white lace trimming, which looked well,
with a wreath of cheDllle fluffs; and a dress that
manifested good taste was or black velvet and silk,
edged with broad white lace, the front of bodice
having two broad facings of the. same; and it suited
the handsome wearer. An old gold satin redingote,
low and sleeveless, with a white veiling skirt in
long pleats, secured a meed of admiration. There
was some merit in a blue sateen theatre bodice
and draping over a veiling skirt of smoke colour;
and some beauty in a rich broche of eau de Nile,
with revere and trimmings oi gold plush; and a
decided amount of style in a ruby broche bodice
and train, with be utiful ai r cot silk skirt covered
with net and caught up with ruby cresc.-ntst v ery
rich was a Matron's blue satin diess a perfect bed
of pearls and blue daisies to match, and worn with
a blue wreath. Rosebud was a liti 1 v brunette, in
neat white veiling edged with apricot, and dotted
with buds all over. From Gcorgo-ffreet west
cune a fair girl in a nleailng heliotrope satin
bodice, with a drape of the sat in across ter white
muslin skirt, Some of the fancy cbaiacteis were
interesting; and others comical. Cards was good
Lizzie Stofel a fat and merry girl: a blue b-.y
jockey was busy keeping a red girl jockey oaitai-
lng round; and an Amazon protected herein t
by silver paper armour that you could stick a nl
pin through. A dazzling dancer was in navy-b
livened with white braid and pearls, and carried a
drum on her dress. By putting it under, she might
have produced a very fashionable figure. At half-
past four there was a great rush for cloaks. The
gratitude of a suffering community will fall on the
man who can invent a satisfactory cloak soheme.
* * *
A most pleasant social outing took place
on Saturday afternoon to mark the opening of the
sailing season by the Sydney Amateur Canvas
Dingy Club. The members invited a number of
friends to a skim round the harbour, and then to
dinner at Cremorne at 4 o’clock, the whole com-
pany being photographed before sitting down.
About 60 were present, and the guests were cer-
tainly surprised at the liberal hospitality of the
young club. The dinner, catered by Moon, was
equal to the efforts of the fashionable city pur-
veyors. It was “ scoffed’’—that’s the brief of
“ done ample justice to.” Mr. J. J. Richardson,
chairman, proposed the “ Queen;” Commodore H.
Harding proposed tho “Patron and Senior Offi-
cers;” and Mr. Milson, the “Other Officers of the
Club,” Mr. F. M’Donnell responding. Mr. G
Hellings toasted the “Guests” humorously, re-
marking that some people might try to look
down on the Canvas Dingy men, and call
them “ rag-boat owners,” but, perhaps, after all,
they could teach some people how to sail a boat,
and give them lessons in behaviour as well. Mr.
J. R. Love replied, speaking most highly of the
skill and pluck of the club: he had often thought
the flotillas of small craft on the harbour things
of beauty, and from the way he had seen them
handled that day they seemed almost things of
life. Success to the B.A.C.D. Club was given by
Mr. J. R. Drewett, and replied to by Mr. Herbert
Downs. Other clubs was given by Mr. G. Snow,
and answered by Mr. J. M. Curtis; and the ladies
were next toasted, with a hope that on the club’s
next gathering they might be present. Mr. J.
M’Donald responded for the fair, alleging that
“taking ladies all round” it would be hard to
praise them too much. The laughter and cheers
from the Canvas Dingy men stetned to indicate
that that particular way of taking the ladies just
met their ideas. Lastly, an address and gold locket
set with a splendid diamond were presented by the
grateful members to their hon. sec, Mr. Herbert
Downs, for his zealous exertions, and then the
crews took to their dingies, and the visitors to the
Prince of Wales, and reached Sydney at dusk.
• •
A programme of twenty events was pro-
vided for the Church of England Grammar School
sports, and as nearly forty persons gave prizes or
other donations, the young athletes were pretty
liberally rewarded for their efforts. There were
very large entries, a very m xed band in attend-
ance, and a number of enthusiastic boys permeat-
ing the grand-stand who m de a babel of noise
quite disproportionate to their size. The meeting,
it should also be observed, enjoyed the distinction
of being under the patronage I the most reverend
the Primate. We are obliged to confess that we
got so interested in the small boys’ struggles,
especially in the three-legged rac». that we for-
g t to look for the Bishop. But If the of
Ijiti Church was not t’lere, there were
in all their panoply and milli * those whom
somebody hascalleathe “mains porters of the
Church
We mean—of course, we have no wife—
Those beings without whom man's life
All sombre shade is;
That sex who all description mocks,
Who blast our hearts and darn our socks—
That ever unsolved paradox I
We mean—the ladies.
We bless those small athletic boys—
Yes, bless them all, despite their noise—
For they did bring them.
What though the Bishop wasn’t there?
Oh, hang no, bless himl we don’t care,
So long as those sweet church belles were;
Who wouldn’t ring them ?
Two pretty sisters were escorted to and fro many
times by a tall walker, and their navy-blue and
Galatea-strlpe dresses were just as natty as any
pretty face would need. A little thing sparkled in
a fungus-brown cashmere Mary Anderson of the
neatest kind, with ribbon trimmings of satin to
match. A rather peculiar but effective combina-
tion was a plain dark red skirt topped with bodice
and draperies of the whitey-green of a dried leaf.
One of the noticeably good toilets was a small
bodice of warm fawn-coloured cashmere, and a
skirt of greenish-black satin in tabs alternately
long and short, ended with pompons, fawn show-
ing at edge. A grey satin was severely plain, both
body and skirt being drawn in long loose folds
with a few tucks—no waistband of any kind being
visible. A nun’s-veiling the colour of mown hay
was tasteful, set off with maroon. Perhaps as nice
as any was a navy-blue dress with hair lines of
white round the hem; cuffs, belt, and oollar
marked with the same; and on the left hip draped
a broad band of soft white fabric. And exceed-
ingly neat was a rich brown cashmere and drap-
ings with a velvet skirt of Japan brown in organ
pleats, plastron of the velvet; and parasol and hat
to match. Two plDks were as patent as one poppy
in a cornfield. What we liked best were not
fashionable drosses at all. They were two dull
greens made to fit close to the shape—with neither
orinolines nor “Jets”—very simply draped with
long pointed aprons nearly to the hem. They
were not stylish - judged by the present excrescent
fashion; they were rational, natural, and womanly
dresses, with no prominent foolishness about
them, and, with the plainest black gloves and
parasols in keeping, we liked them. There!
• • •
Onoe more into the breaoh, dear friends;
or, strictly speaking, into a pair of them—to do
honour to the Masons’ ball. We generally go to a
Masons’ ball with a feeling of apprehension;
there's a weight at our hearts caused by the con-
stant dropping of weights on our toes. And there
seems no weighto escape. When a Mason drops
his foot on ours, there seems to be real masonry
there. You see, we write in a spirit of levity.
Ihe fact is, we have been to the ball of the Lodge
Sydney Tarbolton, and hive just got home with-
out being maimed, lamed, or blamed by anyone.
This is so unusual that it has made us elated. We
had a rea good time among the chief Masons, and
wo found no sorrow about Murrow and no masher
about Washer, which two euphoniously named
gentlemen were the active managers of the ball.
Everything was so cheerful; it’s so nice to get
home whole and unhurt, that—
To-night we’re gay—Pegasus’ cart
No funeral hearse is;
We feel like taking in good part
The smallest mercies;
Our head’s as light as is our heart,
Or as our verse is.
With Bydney girls we danced to-night—
And none are dearer—
We flew round with a fairy light,
We were her steerer;
Eaoh whirl with our sweet satellite
Brought heaven nearer.
You guess, perhaps, we’ve lost our head,
Or something near it;
Or looked upon the wine when red;
You needn’t fear it—
We danced, as Allen P. has said,
“With spring and spirit.”
That’s all 1 We merely danced in tune
A little caper;
Our bead’s as clear as is the moon
From any vapour;
W e didn’t—there, now I—even spoon—
We’re " on the paper.”
We considerthis self-denying oonduot all the more
creditable, as the amount of flirting material
available was immense. Numbers of really nioe
girls, with all the advantages of youth and skit-
tishuess, were flitting in every direction; and,
as the music was good, and there was plenty of
room, what more could a human man want?
Programmes were well designed, one leaf contain-
ing a full list of the Masonic stewards of the lodge,
but the cards happened to be so very flimsy that
they split almost as a touch. The first, thing most
ye pie did was to tear off this particular leaf as
superfluous, and the consequence was that very
sooti the stewards like Sennacherib’s host, “ lay
withered ani strewn” all over the floor. Messrs.
H. V. Mai sd m and H. Murrow were M.’s C., and in
addition to ,ne Lodge officers, we saw among visi-
tors tue W.M. of the Robert Burns Lodge, EC.,
Mr. ijsi .iitou jacob, and the W.M. of the Sir Coiin
Cainpb* I Lodge, S.C., Mr. Baird. Of the ladies at-
tached to Masons—at least, we hope they are at-
tached to them—one married lady wore a very rich
and handsome dress: it was claret satin with a
trimming of gold-patterned olaret that looked just
like chain mail. It would oertainly chain most
males with admiration. Another lady, exceedingly
tall, looked elegant in a black dress with half
sleeves, pink feathers am gloves. A third married
lady wore a crushed flower-pot coloured dress of
great richness, set off wi.h fine white lace, and
looked Btately. Mrs. Martin’s dress was sumptuous,
the bodice and waterfall were of peacock blue satin,
edged all round with peacock eyes; the skirt was
cream satin, in broad pleats, richly decked with
lace, white beading, and bunches of berries and
leaves. Miss Arrowsmitb, whose name suggests
the cupid darts she was shooting all the evening,
looked gentle and good in black and sunflowers;
and Miss Croft nice in shaded flounces of cerise
satin. A very fashionable costume was gracefully
worn by Mrs. Hourigan - ivurv satin sleeveless
bodice and bouffant train, with a skirt of blue
satin, enriched with fans of eidelweiss lace and
pearls, a breadth of the blue being also let in the
front of bodice. A blue veiling dress garbed a
yeung lady who had an owl slant;ugwise on her
bosom. An owl is always wise, whatever position
he is in; but he is particularly wise when he
chooses such a nice perch. Mrs. Welsh was charm-
ingly pretty in white veiling, with rich, chestnut-
hued collar and trimmings. Quietly uhuring waß
Miss Itae, a slim and graceful girl, in pink, who
had to catch the last train to uranville -one of the
brightest rays of the evening. Miss Celia Ger-
ard, of North Shore, in pink, was one of those
pretty maidens who would ceiia tate in no time.
One really enchanting dress was of pale primrose
satin, beautitully fitted and bunched; only we lost
interest in the lady after seeing another fellow
kiss her. As he didn’t make any secret of it, we
don’t. Besides, there was a tirst-rate supper, and
we think people ought to be satisfied with that
without wanting ali sorts ofits. A tall bru-
nette showed to adv.i. . jo in twite grass cloth,
garlanded with rich rtt. holly h. ■: ks. Miss Edeson
was an attraetive partum in ciumed strawberry
satin and white lace; Miss Graham delightfully
neat and cool in white India must in and pink roses,
nice enough to India the feelings ct sensitive youth:
and Mrs. Moody wore a beuiHiln. clack satin decked
with white ostrich plumes, thar moved a source of
many admiring remarsa O we many others,
time forbids a descripn . i : ► • >.
One there is still in our memory caught,
And, though time is brief and our life but a
span,
We really must mention so dainty a sort—
So dear, yet seductive, a sort to man;
In satin and veiling so white and neat,
A perfect chef-d’oeuvre in Nature's plan,
A nice little thing, with a faoe all sweet,
And feet like the feathers that tipp’d her fan.
• • •
Mr. C. J. Graham and his'wife, of Orange,
invited a number of friends to a celebratiqn on
the 23rd ultimo, In the Oddfellows’ Hall. Ladles
kindly presided In turns at the piano, and drew
music from It which beat the local band just as
wholly as Orpheus oould beat an Italian organist.
They kept it up for nine blissful hours. Ladies
were in the majority, and some, but for a few in-
defatigable ana large-minded of the panted (and
panting) sex, might have graced the wall, or re-
lieved the refreshment table of its groaning load.
Of these generous and active gentlemen, the host,
the C.P.S., and a visitor from the new railway line
were conspicuous. The fair were in excellent
spirits, the gentlemen a leetle lazy. Unfortu-
nately, there are so few single ones in Orange, that
they are spoiled. As to the ladies—a vision in blue
captivated several hearts (no, not hearts, they re
not fashionable among men—say their!“ vanities );
but her elder sister in black eclipsed her, looking
lovely in a costume of mauve and white, with a
Kly irresistible head. A representative of Camp-
town, in pale pink, looked admirable; and the
ghter of a Sydney solicitor combined pink
toiltt and great agreeableness. Miss Kite, in
cream, monopolised the minds of several; as did
Miss Bella M‘Kay, in white, to which her raven hair
afforded a pretty contrast. Two blondes in pale-
blue shared, perhaps, the pride of place—one being
local, the other from Darlinghurst. Married ladies
made a pleasing muster; but everyone knows bow
easily they can get cheques from their husbands,
while single girls are mostly dependent on Pa’s
weakness, Ma’s generosity, or the simplicity of
some manageable brother for the wherewithal to
adorn themselves. Beauty unadorned is out of
fashion now. Among the more oonspiouons were
Mesdames Moulder, Kearney, Hutchinson, Elwin,
and the hostess, who, with Mr. G., made the party
“ gee ” right merrily.
* * *
The property-holders can tvell afford to he
jubilant over the opening of the South Coast rail-
way, and they are going to make the celebration
one worthy of the event. There will be a regatta
on George’s River, commencing at 11 o’clook on
the 15th October, a banquet at Rust’s Hotel, Sand-
ringham, at 1, and a trip up the river in the after-
noon. At Hurstville, there will be a banquet on
the opening day, and a grand ball on the following
evening, when the City Band will provide music.
The attractiveness of the programme has already
decided a great many metropolitans to join in the
festive hubbub.
• • •
On the 34th September, a wedding of in-
terest took place at St. Luke’s, Burwooa, which
church was thronged. Canon Moreton then and
there joined Mr. William Small, of Melbourne, to
Miss Annie Beaumont, who wore an elaborate
toilet of cream satin, with appropriate deckings,
and whose papa lives at Prestleigh, Redmyre—a
fentleman in the building line, rich, and respected
y ail who know him. While being launched on
the matrimonial sea, for, as the humorous Hood
hath it, “fortunes fair or fatal,’’ the bride was
supported by live bridesmaids in the usual array
and armed with full-sized bouquets—Misses Mud-
dle, Small (bridegroom’s sister), E. Muddle, Geddes,
and E. Geddes; and Mrs. Beaumont was appropri-
ately arrayed in purple satin with black silk, and
wreathed in smiles. At the wedding-breakfast,
provided by Correy in first-class style, there were
speeches, laughter, and applause, and Mr. and Mrs.
Small left by the afternoon train for Mount Vic-
toria, amid a shower of good wishes and rice. In
the evening there was a party in the line ballroom
attached to Prestleigh, whioh a number of friends
enjoyed highly.
* * *
At St. Paul’s, Redfern, Mr. J. G. Primrose,
son of ex-Mayor Primrose of Windsor, was married
to Miss Caroline Alioe Wilson, youngest daughter
of Mr. H. Wilson, 40 years resident in Goulburn.
There were s'x bridesmaids—Misses Henrietta and
Matilda Wilson (in ruby velvet pettlooats with tops
made in ballet fashion of cream nun’s veiling, and
pretty white straw Battenburg hats faced with
ruby velvet, and oarrying baskets of damask and
Gloire-de-Dijon roses with ribbons corresponding
to dresses), Evelyn and Georgina Primrose (in
similar style dresses in white and heliotrope), and
Emeline and Amelia Cleary (two small girls from
Goulburn, in cream nun’s veiling and lace, with
blue sashes). The young and attractive bride,
looking innocent, was attired in petticoat of crepe
de ohene, with flounces of point d’Alenyon, and
body and train of rich satin de Lyon trimmed with
trails of bridal flowers. The mother of the bride
looked well in black grosgrain silk trimmed with
broohe and Spanish lace, cream bonnet and gloves.
Alter the interesting ceremony, the bridal party
drove to Mr. Prank Smith’s, at Botany, and par-
took of a champagne luncheon. Returning to the
Glebe Town Hall, a large number of friends sat to
the dejeuner supplied in fine style by Edwards, of
the Glebe, Mr. P. J. Wilson taking the chair, and
Mr. Chamberlain (best man) the vice-chair.
Numerous toasts gave excuse for uncorking num-
berless bottles of the amber fizz; and at 9 o’clook
about 40 couples began dancing to the music of
De Groen’s string band. Three sisters from Glebe
Point, dressed respectively in cream, blue, and
sea-green satin, looked nice. Mrs. Cleary, the
bride’s sister from Goulburn, wore black grosgrain
and broche; and a Kingston lady shone in blue
veiling and satin. Devonshire-street was repre-
sented by charming damsels in deep-flounced
white linen, tucked and laced in front with sea-
green ribbon, and by a dress of drab crepe-de-
ohene, trimmed with coral-pink ribbon velvet,
t hree William-street sisters were attractive as to
dancing and cress; and two cousins of the bride-
groom, from Regent-street, noticeable for excel-
lent dancing. Pleasuie reigned till an early hour
of the morning, when the happy couple left for
their new home at Parramatta.
• • •
Petersham is animated with a bazaar,
which was opened on Monday by the Hon. Alex-
ander Stuart. A cumber of ladies and gentlemen
were on the platform, whioh was blue-carpeted
and flower-edged for the occasion, and Mr. Stuart
made a little speech with a few graceful turns in
it. He observed that objections were sometimes
raised against bazaars for church purposes; but s >
long as people could not be got to do that which
they ought to do, otherwise, it seemed necessary
to get at them by these insidious means. He com-
plimented the promoters on the original character
they had infused into their entertainment, and on
concluding, Miss Jeanie Cameron was led on to
present the Premier with a bouquet of flowers,
and was at once rewarded with a kiss. It was, of
course, a platonical kiss, Miss Jeanie beinga minute
maiden of about live. Everj thing was nattily ar-
ranged the affair oombining oonversazione and con-
cert with Dazaar, and Messrs. W. Munro and A. J.
Arndell spared no pains to make it complete. All
the exhibits would take fartoo long to enumerate;
scienoe and art were aided by beauty, and all pre-
sented in most attractive forms. There are three
principal stalls: “ Bcclesia,” draped in red, is kept
uy Mrs. Paton, the minister’s wife; “Forget-me-
not,” strikingly tasteful, in light blue, by Mrs.
M’Call; and .the “Mia-mia” is under Mrs. Came-
ron. Miss Elphinstone runs the Christmas tree;
Mrs. Dowe, the refreshment counter; andanum
ber of ensnaring girls run the young gentlemen
round the room, and press them. Press them to
buy flowers and things they don’t want. There
are, and will be, concerts every evening; also
competitions in handiwork, floral skill, &c; to-
night, electroplating and gildiqg will be carried on
by Jackson Brothers, and visitors are invited to
bring anything they like to be electroplated
while they watch. A really beautiful exhibi-
tion is made by Searle and Son—a complete
dinner table, with floral decorations. There
is the white cloth, glittering with plate, cut-
lery and glassware, and in the centre is an
eight-pointed star of flowers, a yard across; the
base is a row of geranium flowers, then a row of
white roses, and pink and white azaleas follow in
rows, crowned with ferns and other greenery, the
whole forming a solid bank of flowers, exquisitely
pretty. At each end there are solid hearts formed
of other flowers. Even the glasses are all fern
marked, and the spoons and forks of floral pattern
to correspond. It is the work of Mr. Yates. Mr.
H. Corbett controls the electricity; and a large
astronomical telescope is in full operation. That
curious mechanism, the calculating maohine, is
shown. The bazaar will be open till Saturday, and
a very pleasant visit can be made to the Petersham
Town Hall these moonlight eveningß.
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)


Department of Public Works,
Sydney. 30 th September, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are Invited for the fol-
lowing Publio Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance w hen the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
F. a. WRIGHT.
J£EE appliances.
THE CELEBRATED
Langstroth Bee-Hives
IN ALL SIZES,
together with all the
IMPLEMENTS OF AN APIARY :
Comb Foundation, Honey Extractors, Smokers,
Honey Knives, Feeders, &c., all in stock, or fur-
nished at shortest notice.
Printed Catalogue furnished on application.
BUTCHER, FEHON & CO.,
11l PITT STREET,
Agents.
HffirsmcK
ir A«r Tman
Bargains in Music.
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE.
Slightly Soiled and Surplus Music, which has
been separated from the general stock in order to
effect startling reductions.
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
Pieces from 2d. each. Grand opportunity for
laying in a stock of good music, at low prices.
Notice to the Pcbmc.—The newest and
choicest musio received every mail. Orders sup-
plied to all parts of the colony on receipt of P.O.
orders or postage stamps. Postage 2d. extra each
piece. Choirs and Societies supplied with Anthems,
Glees, and every kind of part music. Brass, Reed,
and String Band Music always on hand.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE-STREET.
OF
Huenerbein’s Warehouses,
411 Heorge-st., and 178 Pitt-st.
Pianos Cost Price for 1 month only,
Prior to REMOVING TO NEW PREMISES,
jggr Cost Price! Cost Price! Cost Price!
RARE OPPORTUNITY JUST NOW I
Huenerbein’s Warehouses.
raiUil HOTEL,
BRISBANE STREET,
Launceston.
THIS centrally-situated Hotel, having under-
gone considerable alterations and improve-
ments, now offers every comfort and convenience
to visitors and commercial gentlemen.
The Hotel is now under the management of
MRS. PYLE,
late of the ORIENTAL HOTEL, Collins-street
East; BEACONSFIELD HOTEL, St. Kilda ; and
Waverley House, Collins-place, Melbourne.
3?ills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy !
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
Slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cei,-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
Serience. They overcome the worst form of
diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
1 have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
N
o
T
E
ANOTHER SERIES OF CLAIMS FOR CASUAL
TIES PAID BY THE ACCIDENT INDEMNITY
COMPANY.
A WELL-KNOWN CITIZEN’S TESTIMONY.
Ernest W. Moon, Esq.,
Manager Accident Indemnity Co.,
Dear Sir,—Permit me to thank you sincerely for
the prompt manner in which you have paid me
for disablement from a recent aocident.
If all claims against your Company are settled i
by you in the speedy manner in which mine has
been done, you should command business.
I am, dear sir,
Yours truly.
J. G. WRIGHT,
Garden Palace Hotel, Sydney.
R
E
T r*
//v
ACCIDENT
/NDE/VIN/TY C 0 Y f L IMITED)
*
a
E
W
MOON
★
Plrcce
I LC,ICCA
c/uai
le
-s'
THE BERRYGRAPH COPYING INSTRUMENT.
The Universal Copying Instrument, for
4|d. Pourpence halfpenny. 4 Jd.
Will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, 4s. 6d.; Letter, 65.; Foolscap, 9s. per
quire.
Full particulars,
W. BULLARD, 342 George-street.
The SYDNEY PRESS says—
“lntending purchasers of land have
now a splendid opportunity of obtaining
allotments at perhaps one of the most
convenient and charmiDg localities for
suburban homes, on the well known
Springfield Estate. . . . An opportu-
nity such as this should not be lost. . .”
SPRINGFIELD!
The Pick of the County.
Grand Views !
Pure Air!
Good Water!
A HOME IN THE COUNTRY, WITH
FACILITIES OF TOWN.
LARGE CULTIVATED
ALLOTMENTS,
ON EASY TERMS.
PURCHASERS CAN HAVE 75 PER CENT.
ADVANCED TO BUILD, REPAYABLE AS
RENT.
Before buying land, or paying any more rent for
house, send for plan of and inspect thy
SPRINGFIELD ESTATE.
BOYD and KING,
96 Pitt-street.
No Allotments smaller than SO x 200 feet.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents, the newly-married
and those about to marry, may obtain much
valuable information, which may prevent years of
suffering, by simply sending a stamped addressed
envelope for reply to C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
,COM!~Or lAIM h lIF.IH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are thnee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suiter periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
turns, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never sutler again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—Togua/rd against fraudulent imitation«,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London."
DE
ASTHMA.GOUGH BRONCHITIS.
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution—To guard against fraudulent invitation*,
nee that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.”
THIRD EDITION NOW READ Y.
Much Improved.
Maid, wife, and mother,
A Medical Book for Womankind. “ Worth
its weight in gold.” Post free, in secure cover, Is.
6d. N.B.W. stamps. To be had only of the Pub-
lisher, Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box74o,G.P.O.,Sydney.
HOW TO LOOK YOUNG and HANDSOME,
and to Live One Hundred Years: applicable
to both Sexes. A really wond erful book. Post
Free, Is.: intercolonial, is. 2d. To be had only of
the Publisher, Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box 740, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
LADIES sending for Mrs. Bearcroft’s Books,
will receive free a Photo, of the Publisher.
HORDERNS
ON THE
Briclrfield. Hill-
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS In LACE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
Orir+i^ 8^ 1 ™ ,n the coun try can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Sot of Lace
curtains, if you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it otit, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
I
*'
>1
a
a
t&smex
M
Price: ,12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. t%r~ Examine carefully the engraving of our
‘ LACE CURTAINS."
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
"[lack curtains] 668 BRICKFIELD HILL, [lace curtainb)
Patterns and Prloe Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Last week, the St. Leonard’s Sohool of
Arts was immensely crowded for three nights, at
the bazaar and wild-liower (as well as garden-
flower) show. Sir Henry did not show up to open it,
as expected; but B. 8. Holtermann was there and
made a speech, which was more fun. A newspaper
called the Bazaar Chronicle, was issued regu-
larly. and musical selections were given from the
platform by many obliging volunteers. Besides,
the North Shore Band played outside. A wax-
work show had a certain degree of merit, and the
money results (which go to Wesleyan funds) were
satisfactory.
* * *
The bazaar mania is again prevalent, and
the Masons are having a grand affair in their new
hall, Castleregh-street. Lord Augustus opened it
with due pomp at noon on Monday last, and very
astutely escaped the wheedling of the beautiful
young ladies at the stalls by donating a lump sum,
on the clear understanding that he was not to be
persecuted with raffle lists. His Excellency knew
that if they put his name down, he would have to
send the private secretary every night to see what
he had won, and as there are flocks of fair women
there, heaven knows what time the P.S. would
get homo every morning. Hanlan was busy giv-
ing prizes to the Grammar School boys, or he
would have helped open the bazaar. Jennie Lee,
however, went, and was last seen burying her
suede gloves up to the dimpled elbow in the lucky
bran tub in search of sequestered treasures at a
shilling per dip. Beautiful music is given every
night, and a fine view is getable from the gallery.
Speaking financially, the gallery is the only safe
place. Refreshments are recherchi. and Quong
Tart’s tea is there as a matter of course. It would
be interesting to know if the world oould get on
without it—or him. On Monday night he was one
of the beauties of Nature, covered with flowers,
and loaded with small things pressed upon him
by the Masonic charmers. The general character
of the goods displayed seems more useful than
usual, and the prices not particularly exorbitant.
At the same time, if a buyer is “ soft” the sales-
belles don’t lose sight of the fact. The largest
stalls, prominent in the centre, are the South
Coast, under Mrs. H. J. Tarrant; and the Leinster
Marine opposite, under Mrs. Hunt. The other
holders are Mesdames Starkey, Amess, Burne,
Browne, Wills, Coulter, Weekes, Cloudy, Cunning-
ham, Carrie k, Neble, and Esperson, assisted by
parties of skirmishing young ladies. Some very
valuable gifts have been presented. Space, this
week, prevents a mention of the many pretty
toilettes to be seen, which were well worth notice;
and, after all, the best way is to go and see them.
The ladies won’t mind.
*W * •
Urana Oddfellows had a good ball in the
new Mechanics’ Institute, roughly finished for the
event. Culley’smusic, and Mrs. Campbell’s supper
were provided, and the hearty festivity ended at
diybreak A N.S.W. Order of Rechabites was
inaugurated last week, and on Thursday a dinner
celebrated their start, in the Protestant Hall.
There were no intoxicants, and no toasts, but it
was a capital affair. There should be more of the
sort—On October 10, the ladies who have been to
the Petersham socials give the gentlemen a return
dance. It is to be nicely arranged, and a few extra
tickets only will be issued to f riends, as the ladies
are determined to have it comfortable The date
of the Mayor’s ball was unfortunately mis-printed
last week. It is the 15th October The Socials’
ball at Nithsdale this Friday is going to be a really
good affair. Mr. W. Dickson, hon. sec., reports
everything smooth, and all ready. Dancing starts
8.45 p.m. ..We shall have something social anent
the Freethinkers next week.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Freethinkers’ Soiree and Ball (Masonlo
Hall ...October 2.
Socials’ Ball (Nithsdale) October 3.
Comp. Picnic to Beach (Botany). October 8.
Owl Hygynx (new Masonic Hall) October 8.
Mrs. F. Warsnitt’s “Drawing Lesson”
(Masonic Hall) October 8.
Sydney Liedertafel October 9.
Fuel Merchants’ Picnic (Botany) October 9.
Ladies’ Ball (Petersham) October 10.
Baohelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) October 10.
Oxford Private Social (Protestant Hall) October 10.
Newtown Socials’ Ball October 10.
Amazon Q. A. Picnic October 14.
Mayor's Ball (Town Hall) October 15.
Produce Merchants’ Picnio (Botany)....October 16.
Eureka Plain and Fancy Ball (Tatter-
sail’s Hall. October 21.
Undertakers Picnic (Botany) October 22.


MATHEWS OF MALOGA
HIS BOOK.
We have been a good many things in our
time. We have edited “an inlluential journal,”
started to “supply a long-felt -want;” we have
bossed a Minstrel show (of elegant lady and gen-
tlemen performers); we have published an elegant
volume of poems (with a portrait—not a bit like us
—on the title-page, of ourselves, in spectacles);
and we have, at a similar period of our career,
been boot-japanner to a boarding-school which
declined to receive into its scholastic bosom a iy
young lady whose father was lower in the social
scale thin the tripe-trade. We subsisted on the
“ corn-cure ” for a considerable time; and, it can-
not be denied, until we were so unceasingly
“ moved on ” by the constabulary that we became
a species of “ Wandering Jew,” that we relin-
quished a chance of becoming gradually affluent
by means of our “Great Bonanza.” We have
always, indeed, striven to earn the maximun of
money at the minimum of work; but, strange
to say, it never occurred to us until lately
that a good line for a permanent “stretch off”
would be the establishing either of an Artizans’
College or an Aboriginal Mission School. We re-
gret this in our sober moments, beoause we con-
sider that pureness of mind and an industrious
attention daily to the cooking of our “little eights,”
would have eminently qualified us for the post
which (dropping for obvious reasons the Artizans’
College) Mr. Daniel Mathews now so admirably
fills at Maloga.
* * *
We have before us the “ Book of Daniel,”
which betrays, notwithstanding all that “paw
man's ” trials, an infinite superiority of style. Mr.
Mathews’ work is at times majestic, frequently
pathetic, and continuously interesting. Mr. Ma-
thews commences by saying: “ Fifteen profess to
be Christians, mostly women, but their lives do not
at all times harmonise with their professions."
Which would seem to be a bit of a damper; but it
will be seen later how the truly great and good
man overcomes all trivial difficulties, and is, at the
present time, still Monarch of Maloga, enveloped
in a mantle of native blanket and surrounded by a
halo of ration sugar.
* * *
la an “Address to the Young of Aus-
tralia,” which forms a kind of preface to the
Gospel according to Daniel, he says, with a touch
of humour for which we are thankful to him—“l
could describe to you the misery and wickedness
of the lives of the poor blacks before we get them.
Their history is a black one. ... ; ” and we
shall see as we go on the magnificent reform which
Mr. Mathews effects in their moral (if not physical,
condition at his soul-curing stockade on the Mur-
ray. Mr. Mathews (who can’t resist his little joke)
has, it would seem, every sympathy with the Mis-
sion whioh boards, iodges, and buggy-drives him
with such astonishing completeness. Listen to
this burst of indignation:—“l think the story of
the barbarities perpetrated upon the aborigines of
Australia forms one of the darkest pages in the
history of Great Britain, in respect to her colonial
possession*.” The pamphlet is full of pleasant and
sympathetic details. For instance, on April 22nd,
Jacob and Kosey Dicsson were married. They
went into Echuoa to get the knot tied; there
being, according to the rev. author, "some wisdom,
in Jacob's haste." On the same day, we grieve to
learn, that amidst the festivities occasioned by the
solemn ceremony chronicled above, a slight contre-
temps occurred. Says Daniel :—“ A Maitland
black woman—Lizzie Boney—got in a fearful rage
with me about nothing I was glad when
her passion cooled down, which it did in the even-
ing. She said she was quick-tempered, and was
sorry. I quite agreed with her about hertemper.”
In the final period is embodied that species of
quiet sarcasm for whioh rev. gentlemen of all de-
nominations have been for ever famous. Again
the Apostle of Maloga is tried; but, as it will be
seen, he is (with the aid of Divine Providence)
equal to the occasion. Read:— “ Another trouble-
some couple are Martin and Matilda Simpson, for-
merly of the Coranderrk Government Aboriginal
Station, in Victoria. They quite wore out my
patience with their drinki g and quarrelsome be-
haviour. I wrote for a railway pass for them to
return to Coranderrk, and sent them away as
speedily as possible.” To the sceptical, Martin and
Matilda’s unruly habits might be thought to consti-
tute a reason for keeping the couple within the
holy precincts of the Mission until they had
tumbled into tbe fountain or something; but it
was for Daniel to know best. Still staggering
under the weight of his Cross, Mr. Mathews has,
on May Bth, “to chastise two big girls—Edie and
Bertha—for speaking insultingly to Mrs. Mathews.”
They, we learn, however, “ bore the punishment
well,” which is consoling to reflect upon; though
it would be interesting to learn what particular
clause in the Aborigines Protection Act empowers
even such a gleaming apostle as Daniel “ to chastise
two big girls.”
• • •
On May 20th, Mr. Mathews, in the exercise
of his judgment, gave, hesayo, two women “per-
mission to go over to the Goulburn River, two
miles away, in order to fish. While engaged in this
work, an evil-disposed white man took advantage
of,” etc,; a condition of things whioh grieved tne
worthy man to the heart. More annoyance occurs
just as Daniel may have been said to have sponged
away the final tear caused by the giddy conduct of
the wicked white man. He says: “The men and
women are very demanding upon me for my own
horses and conveyance to take their sick to a
doctor. I never refuse when it does not interfere
with my regular days for going into town.” This
oonduct is really too bad altogether, and for all the
more reason when it is considered that the mission
was set up partly for Daniel’s comfort and profit-
spiritual profit, of course. It appears, however,
that Edie is very queer, and that Harriet Oney is
rapidly fading away. Probably, however, Mr,
Mathews, in declining to allow of any interference
with his “ regular days of going into town ” was not
met by the blacks with that spirit of resignation
which might have been expected, when the righte-
ous resolution of suoh a good man was in ques-
tion • for we read lower down that "some of the
senio’r girls are very rough with their tongues.”
The mission gets £75 in two days, and with tears of
ioy the Rev. Daniel ejaculates, “In some way or
other the Lord does provide.” Next day, however,
we have the good man “ praying to the Lord to
send us timber,” and Bertha Murri is sent into
Rchuca Hospital, bad with pneumonia. “Her
mother,” says Daniel, piously “died of consumption
six years ago, so we are somewhat concerned for Ber-
tha.” Our italics, of course. We are told also that
“ Letty, Harriet Oney’s sister, and Richard, are
both affected with consumption, ’ and further, in
the pastor’s own words, " I took Richard Reeve in.
Poor lad 1 the doctor pronounces it a hopeless case
of phthisis.” Then, on the next page, “ Letty
departed this life yesterday. We buried her this
afternoon;” and we are also told that Harriet
Oney is “like a skeleton,” and the poor girl “dies
peacefully ” in the next par.
• • •
Provisions then get short ; and the result
of this may be gleaned by the following: “Sep-
tember Ist, 18a3.—Not much meat for the people.
They all seem to be getting disorganised. A grow-
ing dissatisfaction and disaffection is manifest.
.... Their confidence in us as their old friends
[l] and guardians is rapidly waning, and we feel
distressed and discomfited thereat. . . . Sep-
tember 11th.—The women and girls beoome un-
manageable. They refuse to work for Mrs.
Mathews notwithstanding all our kindness, love,
and attention. They became insolent and dis-
obedient.” But, suddenly comes the silver lining—
“ Thank the Lord 1 at this time we are bountifully
supplied with food. . . .” Now, all goes on
smoothly for a while (presumably as long as the
new supply of groceries lasts), when “ the girls
become intensely indolent ” again, and “ two had
... a fight. Jealousy was the cause of this!”
Humph! Then the cross of the worthy pastor
appears suddenly to develop into a perfect uost-
office Scaffolding, for the good missionary writes:
“ At this time, malignant charges were in circula-
tion within the limits of the Mission, reflecting
upon my moral character, and, although not
definite in their representation, were not the
less damaging. ’ However, in spite of these
bitter and envenomed darts of the sceptical,
Daniel (with a resignation which does him credit)
“felt nerved to go on in the strength of the Lord,
and meet any trouble that might follow in its
track ”; a determination, of course, which nothing
connected with this venal earth could have as-
sisted him in arriving at! On Nov. Bth, “funds
are low,” but on the 9th they have a picnic, the
men getting “ kangaroos and hares”; but on the
23rd the worthy gentleman’s heart “felt faint and
sick,” because short commons loomed in the dis-
tance; but this cal astrophe was again averted by
£l4l being paid into the till on the next day.
“Praisethe Lord!” Mrs. Mathews then "leaves
for Melbourne, for a little rest and change,” poor
ladyl
• • *
Affairs appear to run smoother at this
period, and one of the blacks —Edgar—is very
much saved, indeed. He says, at the prayer-meet-
ing : “ I feel sorry for what I used to say against
Mr. and Mrs. Mathews, and the prayers. I used to
think it wore out my trousers to pray so much.
But I praise God now I can pray.” We presume
now, therefore, that he prays without his trousers.
Another valuable testimony is that of Lizzie Jack-
son. She is so much affected by Mr. Mathews’ elo-
quence, that she says; “ As soon as the service was
over, I went to Mr. Mathews as quick as I could.
I was in such a hurry that I knocked down two or
three children on the way.” Rosey is in a similarly
satisfactory condition. Listen to her: “He helps
me in my work. I used to only sweep out the
middle of my room, now I sweep out the
corners. I want to please Jesus in everything.”
We learn that the printing of this noble addition
to the literature of our country costs £B, while the
sale of the reports, last year, realized the gorgeous
sum of two shillings. The receipts of the current
year (in cash alone) were £1621 18s. sjfjd., while the
institution received gifts, in kind, innumerable.
One item reads—“one parcel clothes—an unknown
friend ’’—which, we trust, is not a misprint for an
unknown father. Mr. Mathews concludes with
the following cheerful admission: “Although we
have been nearly ten years entirely engaged in
JOHN BULL’S PREDICAMENT;
OR,
OUR BLEEDING COUNTRY.
this work, we feel that soarcely anything has been
done towards evangelizing the scattered tribe 3 of
this unfortunate people.”
• « •
We wanted neither a pastor nor a ghost to
tell us this! and shall expect, at the end of another
twenty years, to hear precisely the same admission.
Daniel ought to know—as very likely he does, by
this time—that the blacks don’t want his religion.
All they require of him is beef and tobacco, with-
out the trouble of having to work for it. Now,
what does Mr. Daniel Mathews require ? Eh ?
The advent of the Adelong Arcadian
(our little joke, Mr. Groves) has given a,fillip to
hush journalism down Kouth. This is how the
Spencerian Groves hatters his esteemed (?) contem-
poraryßefutation.—We note that a despicable
P'int in Gundagai has copied a portion of a letter
which appeared in our journal commenting on a
coutemporary, and has made it aopear as coming
from ourselves. In doing so it merely employs
one of those audacious misrepresentations without
which scarcely a paragraph in its columns is com-
plete.” Whoopi Let loose the dogs of war. &c.
Let’s see: doesn't the fiery Bailey still wield the
facile pen in Gundagai, or has his revolver been
permanently damaged ? We pause for a reply.
While giving utterance to a wail of undis-
guised sorrow over the want of railway commu-
nication with the outside world, the editor of the
Adelong Argus grows feebly f inny, and even-
tually blossoms out into a humourist of no mean
order—that is. of the Peter Campbellian order.
Listen:—“ By the way, the need of speedier transit
than we now possess is daily felt by our community.
This great want is sapping our social institutions,
retarding commercial transactions, and threaten-
ing to stop the growth of our population. In proof
of these assertions, we may state that a youthful
and blooming lady, while surveying a portion of
her bridal robe, gravely informed her anxious lover
that their marriage could not take place until the
train arrived at Adelong.” Well, after all, we
should expect to find an addlepate in Adelong.
What is known in England as “the Chelsea
Mystery,” has been solved, Mrs. Timms, the woman
who was believed to have been “put out of the
way ” by her fashionably-dressed sister, Mrs.
Baker (who is in custody charged with committing
a forgery by which she obtained the property of
the missing woman >, having been found in a work-
house. There are plenty of rich men’s wives and
plenty of rich women's husbands now lying in the
wards of workhouses. Not.long ago in one of the
infirmary wards there was a woman whose husband
had an income of over eight thousand a year. She
was fished out of the Thames, and sent to the
workhouse by the magistrate because she refused
to give a name. She stopped there and lived a
pauper life, letting her husband believe she was
dead rather than go back to him. In one county
lunatic asylum there are now the imbecile sons of
a wealthy manufacturer, a man whose name is a
household word. In another there was till re-
cently a clergyman whose son had held a rich liv-
ing for years. When the poor old fellow died, his
reverend son did not even come to claim the body
and bury it. The funeral took place at the expense
of the rates, and the mourners were the officials of
the asylum.
Vernon Lee, in her “Studies of the An-
tique and the Medteval in the Renaissance,” says
that the real basis and background of fact for all
the romantic veneering of the troubadour gush-
ing was a state of chronic adultery; it was always
some great lord’s lady round whom gently nur-
tured knights were philandering, and she was
allowed and even bound by the code of the time
to be not too chastely irresponsive to one or other
of them. Hence the approved love of the Middle
Age was simply fidelity in adultery.
France is about to dispose of her Crown
jewels. In 1792 the regalia of the Crown was
stolen. Napoleon I. set to work to re-amass a
Crown jewellery, and, by one means and another,
purchase and violence, he and the Bourbon
Princes had raised the total value of the Imperial
gems in 1832 to about a million sterling. The bril-
liants which glittered last upon the forehead of
the lovely consort of Napoleon may next flash
among the fantastic head-gear of the wife of an
Australian mutton-millionaire or of a Californian
belle.
In England, a Baptist parson was sued by
a solicitor for libel. It was alleged that defendaut,
while reading the Scripture lessons, quoted from
Mark xii; 40, “ Which devour widows’ houses, and
for a pretence make long prayers; these shall re-
ceive greater damnation,” and it was asserted that
the rev. gentleman emphasized the words so as to
make them applicable to the plaintiff, who, with
his family, was present. Defendant denied the
the libel and pleaded justification, citing the names
of four widows whose property he alleged plaintiff
had “devoured.” Ultimately, the case was
“squared.” In Australia, fortunately, we have
no solicitors who go about like roaring iions, seek-
ing widows to devour.
In Great Britain the number of physioians
and surgeons virtually stands still. The increase
of the medical profession during the last decade
has been less than 3 per cent. Dr. Ward Richard-
son, the temperance enthusiast, says this is because
doctors, in consequence of the improvement in the
national health wrought by the teetotal move-
ment, have found their occupation gone. But, as
the lawyers have increased 12 per cent., It is quite
clear that teetotalism has not decreased litigation,
which is, perhaps, even a worse evil than drunken-
ness. Musicians and actors have increased to three
times the extent of the lawyers, and an addition of
45 per cent, has been made to the ranks of the den-
tists in ten years. Teetotalism, therefore, doesn’t
prevent people from wearing out their teeth.
In England, now, when a well-eduoated
man finds himself on a lee-shore, he gets into a
railway carriage, blows his brains out with a pistol,
and goes on travelling through the Valley of
Shadows behind a ghostly engine. And when a
man who is not well educated, and who has been
fonder of beer than of work, gets hard-ftp, he first
kisses and then kills his wife, and at once proceeds
to cut the heads off her six little children with the
family bread-knife.
A boy of 16 years has been charged in
London with attempted suicide. He had been
found in a cellar half hanging from the ceiling
by a rope tied round his neck; his feet touched
the ground, but he was leaning backwards, sup-
ported by the rope, quite insensible, and black
in the face. Accused explained that he had been
reading “Jack Sheppard,” and he had also seen
Sictures of men being hanged in the Police News;
e thought he would try the hangman's knot, but
it slipped and strangled him. This is a queer world.
Had we an opportunity, we should watch the career
of this young man with much interest. Will he be
hanged, or will he develop into a hangman ?
Truth remarks that the idea of a husband
obtaining pecuniary damages for the misconduct
of his wife is of very questionable morality. If
the *' co.” d serves to be fined, then the fine ought
to go into the public exchequer. Such, however,
is not the opinion of all husbands; and a case will,
after the vacation, make its appearance in the
Divorce Court, in which the damages laid against
the co-respondent are £4o,ooo—the largest sum ever
claimed. The respondent has been married over
thirty years, and the “oo.” is an M.P. of a certain
age, better known in the financial than in the
political world. “If I had any advice to tender to
these middle-aged people, it would be to wash
their dirty linen at home,” says Labouchere. But
just think of what an ideal condition society will
be in when the man who makes money in the public
Courts out of his wife’s shame will hand it over to
the exchequer, or to charity, or do anything but
button it up in his pocket until his next honey-
moon comes round 1
St. Jude’s, Dural, was built some forty
years back, but its consecration, horrtbile diatu,
was overlooked; consequently, all services there-
in performed during its two-score years of uncon-
secrated existence Tacked that mystical sometblug
whiuu ioimai episcopal beuediptiou eoul'ois. Dr.
Barry has, however, made things 0.K., so far a£
the future is concerned. Whether a bishop's con-
secratory powers have a retrospective effect is a
point that is agitating Dural. One couple, whose
marriage didn’t turn out for better, attribute thb
trouble to the lack of the before-mentioned mys-
tical something, and are anxious to know (as theV
have heard that there is no wrong but what has a
remedy) against whom to institute proceedings to
recover damages—whether the representatives of
Bishop Broughton, the trustees ot the church, or
the present Primate. As theological casuistry is
not in our line, we pass the conundrum along to
Charles Campbell and Dr. Beatty.
The Chinese Government have explained
that their declaration of war was “informal,” and
so the French, who deny that they are at war with
China, but just practising a bit, will say, “All
right, let’s begin afresh. We are both mistaken.
Make out your bill against us, and send it in. We
shall also feel obliged by a prompt settlement of
the enclosed.
The Chinese Empire.
Dr.
To account rendered—lndem-
nity overdue £8,000,000
Interest to date 8,000,000
humbug 8,000,000
Wounded dignity 8,000 000
Powder at Foochow 8,000,000
Do. elsewhere 8,000,000
Shot at Foochoow, not returned 8,000,000
Loss on rusted shot returned.. 8,000,000
Compensation for dead and
wounded 8,000,000
Total £73,100,000
An early settlement will oblige. Our M. Courbet
awaits outside Canton, and his receipt will be a
sufficient discharge.”
The wearing of powdered hair and liveries
is a badge of servitude, and should bo resisted by
all white men. Of course, it may be argued that
powdering a man’s hair only makes him whiter.
And the utilisation of members of the human race
for the carrying of “ sandwich ” advertising boards
should be put down with a strong hand. It is less
disgraceful and derogatory to hungry manhood to
openly steal bread than to earn it by carrying
about a poster-boat d. The sandwich-man says, in
effect: “The man who employs me would stick his
bills on a post, if he could get the post to walk
about. But he can’t, and therefore I, who have
legs and have had the breath of life breathed into
me by the Almighty, am able to boast that I am,
for advertising purposes, better than a post.” In
London, our correspondent the other day saw a
procession of 24 sandwich-men branded on one
side: “ Scott’s oyster-rooms—real Dutch natives ”;
in front was the legend; “Mr. Attwood’s office.
Private inquiries made in divorce and suspected
persons watched, on reasonable terms.” It struck
our representative that, as the injured husband is
always the last to hear about the little game, any-
one desirous of giving a straight hint to a friend
that his wife was, in the words of Mr. Solomon,
“ carrying on,” could have done so in a gentle and
effective way by marching up the aforesaid de-
tachment of four-and-twentv “ sandwichers ” to
the friend’s residence, and drilling them in front
of the breakfast room window while the injured,
but theretofore unsuspecting,husband was munch-
ing his fried sole.
Persons who scoff at “ Britain’s bulwark ’ *
—as the Bible is sometimes facetiously called—and
who positively refuse to believe that the world is
flat, although Job made special mention of the
“four corners thereof,” during that social little
conversazione he held on the dung-hill with his
three “joily-dog” companions, would do well to
have a care, lest the grin cometh upon the wrong
side of their cachinatory apparatus. Day after
day, the history of the “ B.B.” repeats itself in the
most unmistakeable manner possible. For ex-
ample, Kinir David once declared he had suddenly
discovered that “a horse is a vain thing for
safety,” and many a man who had put up his chips
on The Broker for the next Victorian Derby must
have jumped to the same conclusion when the
colt was scratched last week, although sound in
wind and limb, and running bravely. Then, again,
who does not remember the story of the Jewish
land agent, Ananias, by name, who was struck
dead for telling an Evenoozer to the chief of the
original twelve apostles. Something similar hap-
pened a few days ago in Melbourne, when James
Aitken was cut off in the flower of his youth, at
the untimely age of 80 years, in the Salvation Army
Barracks. James, it appears, had listened with ail
the attention of a man who had paid for a front
seat, and wanted to secure the worth of his money,
to a certain Capting’s oration on the hope beyond
the grave, and on its close he arose and obseived,
“ them's my sentiments to aty-tv.” After this, he
shouted Hallerlooyur, declared he was saved, and
then dropped down dead at the Capting’s sacred
No. nines. Apropos of the Harmy across the
border, we regret to say another good man has
gone wrong—in fact, he has gone to gaol. “ Happy
Bob ” is the slider from grace this time, and it
appears he was found in Bridge-street, Ballarat,
a few days ago, so immoderately full of the spirit,
that he was stacking all his robes of grace in a
heap on the pathway, by way of preparing to do
an open air can-can in the costume of Adam be-
fore the fall. On the arrival of the Philistines,
Roberto Felix showed fight, and it took the com-
bined efforts of 18 feet 2 inches of the “ foorce ” to
get the “ darbies ” on his wrists, and wheel him off
on a fruit-truck to the interior darkness of the
lock-up. This is sad; for, although Bob subse-
quently attempted to justify himself by pointing
out that even Peter was imprisoned and flogged,
still it wasn’t, as one of Bob’s congregation ob-
served, “fur fillin' up his tank wid tangle, an*
makin’ a hass ov ’imself on th* public pathway.”
♦Ninth Report'of the Aboriginal Mission School.
Malcga, Murray River.
MONEY AND TIME SAVED.
Messrs, thomas henderson and co.,
Agricultural Machinists, of 89, 91, 95 Eliza-
beth-atreet North, Melbourne, furnish us with
the following: combined statements received from
some of their employes, under date 26th January.
1884 Mr. William Downes says ; “ With pleasure
1 bear testimony to the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil
as a household remedy. One application I have
found to totally remove the pain and marks of a
severe bruise, and I believe it to be an invaluable
remedy for sprains. Since experiencing l its good
qualities I have recommended it to several friends
tor neuralgia, soreness of chest, &c , and in every
instance it has given i eliof.” Mr. w, a. M'Horg,
accountant., contributes the following statement:
“ I sprained my ankle very badly. I tried the
efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil. My ankle was greatly
swollen and painful, but after the first application
the swelling had sensioly decreased and the feeling
of stiffness entirely gone out of my leg ; in fact,
a week’s daily application of the Oil effected a
complete cure, and I had not to remain away a
single day frombusin.ss (A friend of mine, afte
seeing my ankle, prophesied three weeks’ deten-
tion at home) I believe the Oil to have great
curative power for sprains, and that it possesses
the properties c.aimed for it.” Mr. K. W. Johnson,
fitter, sprained his ankle severely. He applied St.
Jacobs Oil with the most beneficial results. In lets
than a week it has made a perfect cure, and he
was not absent from work for a single day. He
has also used it for toothache, which it cured
almost at once. He recommends it to all sufferers.
Mr. John M’lntyre, carpenter, in our employ,
speaks of its virtue. . . . Having sustained a
severe fail on my back, I was, through the injury,
half paralysed, I tried St. Jacobs Oil, and after
using two bottles I found much relief. My arms,
which I oould not raise above my head after the
fall, I can now use freely, and can go about my
work as well as ever. 1 look upon the Oil as a
most valuable medicine.
A SOLICITOR’S SOLID STATEMENT.
M. E. Benjamin, Ksq., of the firm of Messrs.
Hart and Benjamin, solicitors and Commissioners
for Australasian Colonies and New Zealand, make
the following statement“ Pacific Chambers,
60 Collins-street \Y est, Melbourne, 11th December
1883,—Messrs. Elliott Bros.—Dear Sirs, I have
much pleasure in testifying to the remedial effects
of St. Jacobs Oil. I have used it in a case of a
severe sprain, and also for rheumatic pains, and
its applipation has always beon attended by almost
immediate relief —I remain, dear firs, yours truly*
“ M. Jb,.


Cleanse the Vitiated Blood
0 CLEANSE the Vitiated Blood of Scrofulous,
J Inherited, and Contagious Humors, and thus
remove the most prolific cause of human suffering,
to clear the skin of Disfiguring Blotches, Itching-
Tortures, Humiliating Eruptions, and Loathsome
Sores caused hy Inherited Scrofula, to purify and
beautify th« Skin, and restore the Hair so that no
trace of disease remains, Cuticura Resolvent,
the new blood purifier, and Cuticura and Cuti-
cura Soap, the great Skin Cures and
are infallible.
CUTICITRA RESOLVENT, tthe now blood Puri-
fier, cleanses the blood and perspiration of
impurities and poisonous elements, and thus re-
moves the cause. Cuticura, i the great Skin Cure,
instantly allays Itching and I nflammation, clears
the Skin and Scalp, heals Ulcers and Sores, and re-
stores the Hair. Cuticura iloap, an exquisite
Skin Beau tiller, prepared from Cuticura, is indis-
pensable in treating Skin diseas as, Baby Humors,
Skin Blemishes.
CUBA
JAMES E. RICHARDSON, Custom House, New
Orleans, on oath, says:—“ln 1870 Scrofulous
Dicers broke out on my body until I was a mass of
corruption. Eyerything known to the medical
faculty was tried in vain. I became a mere wreck.
At times could not lift my hands to my head,
could not tui-n in bed; was in constant pain, and
looked upon life as a curse. No relief or cure in
ten years. In 1880 I heard of the Cuticura
Remedies, used them, and was perfectly cured.”
Sworn to before U.B. Com. J. D. Crawford.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
ll.Towns*Co., Sydney, N.S.W., Consignees.
I HAVE HAD a Ringworm Humor got iat the
barber’s, for six years, which spread aJI over
my ears, face, and neck, and which itched and irri-
tated me a great deal. I have used mans’ reme-
dies by advice of physicians without benefit.
Your Cuticura Remedies have entirejy cured
me, taking every bit of humor off my face and
leaving it as smooth as a dollar. I thank you again
for the help it has been to me.
GEORGE W. BROWH, Mason.
48 Marshall St., Providence, R.I.
Price: Ctjticura, 50 cents; Soap, 35 cents; Re-,
solvent, $l.OO. Prepared by
Potter Drug and Chemical Co., Boston
SSSS
§
EXTENSION OE PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
Mu SUE, LLOYD & CO.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Ling n.
pT” A Magnificent NEW STOCK was selected tig Mr.
Lloyd in London, Paris, and in Ireland.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF DRESSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF TEA GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTF [I NG.
An endless variety of Dressing Gowns, Tea Gowns, Morning Wraps, Cashmere Robes, Ch IMren'a
Washing Pelisses and Cashmere Frocks. (The most complete stock ever shown.;
ERIN-GO-BRAGH!
IRISH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHING. I LONDON MACHINE-MADE UNDERCLO THING.
LADIES’ DRAWERS, CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRESSES,
jgf* An array beggaring description. Moderate prices. Call and ask for illustrated Catah )gue.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
w
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
-&«£v£EX3XC.A.I}T OISO--A-3JTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Torms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOF NEW SOUTH WALES.
COMPAGNONI OTTERING CO. (Limited).
twvS^zxssssttTjssss: to - a jo - *•» *-
JL all k -1 inds of demonstrations. J ertaken xor Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
The DINI NG and REFRESHMEN r ,1 sALOnvc
the city Rn ,t-class Menu daily. Ror for L fOT »nd Gentlemen, are the finest ia
P KI /ATK SMB AND SMOkInG I Coffee the B„ „„ U1 .1 p.m.
Compagpo .nt Cateripp Company, Uema “*"**"•
READ THIS!
A Single M atch at Manufac«
tin p r i C e.
SilV Tl,rs. V mtln * r Patent English
t?y^ r A capped and jewelled,
«iin the latest improvements,
*3 108. each,
Arran ted for three years,
CAN IJR BOUGHT AT
2&9 P/tt-st., 'Corner Royal Arcade
(COBBER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
I WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
sCOOLALTAWINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX, 7
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Greorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
SIJVGER & CO.
J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S. W.,
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
SENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chrome
Disease, Impediments to Marriage, &c. How
to choose a partner for life, so as to live happy:
How to regain and preserve your health. &c.
M ' H " MWr „trft
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Amon# the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this applioation we
have called our new Machine * '
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
WHOLESALE IMPORTERS:
TOZEE and C 0..
229 CLARENCE STREET.
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
UNEQUALLED SAFETY.
J®" EXTREME SIMPLICITY. GREAT ECONJMY
tST* LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
IN USE OF WATER.
-
7//////////.//777T7.
3BL
L.
&
//.
i-
__
SIMPLICITY OP MANIPULATION. (W SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHEBS, Regent-street, Redfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you arc suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
• take cheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feci
• weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“if you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feei
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and ysur blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘ unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
• dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach. ’
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless,'sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeaKNervousMen
A
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decny
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
JServous Debility and
Physical Decay is uniformly
successful because based on perfeot diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise freo.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 62 Oastlercagh St., Sydney
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers, on the above contract. Long
job, an 4 highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M'SHARRY,
Contractors.
■DgSSSSRg?!
>j
RieOßtf
ESSKNGEofUFE
fe only i mall iofe remedy for
• //er/oi/s JjebiLijyT
This Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, whioh causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and ©very other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 125., or four quantities is one for
c(6s.: if by coach. 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and cO„ 43 Goulbum-
street. One Door from George-street South.
James Lawson &Sons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William and Boomerang Btreets
NEW DESIGNS IN BEST WILTON PILE
AND BRUSSELS CARPETS.
BRUB9ELS CARPETS AT 5s PER YARD,
INCLUDING MAKING AND LAYING.
A Reduction of 20 per cent, present on
Stock,
IN ORDER TO MAKE ROOM FOR
NEW SHIPMENTS
NOW LANDING.
DR. SCOTT'S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSHES,
*
V
J&
mwM
mm
it
of Pure Bristles, not Wires, Elegantly
Carved, and Unbreakable.
Each Hair Brush has the same elegant
sign, and contains, the same electro*
magnetic power, the difference being
inly in the size. Each ta handsomely boxed
accompanied bye silver-plated compass,
by which its power can always be tested.
They have *won their way to royal favor
in England, being cordially indorsed
by the Prince and'Princess of Wales,
used by the'. King of Holland and
Prince Bismark. and written upon
by the Rt. Hon.W. Gladstone, and
are nowbrought tothe notice of the
Australian public. They cure
by natural means-will always do
good, never harm, and are a
remcdylasting for many years
They should be used daily in
place ,of the ordinary hair
brush.
From
Rev. Dr. Bridgeman,
Brooklyn.
Gentlemen, I have
never before given a tes-
timonial, but am willing
to encourage the use of
an honest remedy. I
am so pleasedwith your
hair brush that I deem
it my duty to write you
recommending it most
cordially. My hair,
about a year since,
commenced falling
out, and I was rapid-
ly becoming bald ;
but, since using the
brush, a thick growth
of hair has made its
appearance, quite
equal to that which I
had previous to its
falling out. I have
tried other remedies
but without success.
After this remarkable
result I purchased one
for my wife, who has
been a great sufferer
from headache, and she
finds it a prompt and
infallible remedy.
▲. C. Bridgeman, D.D.
9
A
The Mayor
of Saratoga.
It always cures
my headache with
in a few minutes. _
A beautiful hair
brush, well worth the
price, aside from its
curative qualities.
J. R. CHAPMAN.
From the
Venerable President of the
N. Y. Life Ins. Co.
I suffered every morning for years from head-
aches : Your brush relieves them at once. I heartily recom-
mend it. MORRIS FRANKLIN.
From the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Wife suffered for years from headaches; your brush cured them at
once : it has also cured several friends. I use it to remove dandruff*
it works like a charm. My wife was getting bald ;it stopped the fall-
ing hair, and made a now growth.
GEO. THORNBURG, Little Rock, Ark.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache .in 5 minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes S!
Neuralgia in 6 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Sealpl
Promptly Arrests Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe thi Weary Brain.
A BEAUTIFUL BRUSH I LASTING FOR YEARS I
Honey Betumed if not as Represented.
We will send either size of these celebrated Brushes, post 3 paid, to any part
of N 8 W. or Queensland on receipt of price named, with Is. added. Re-
mittance can be made in Cheques, Drafts, Post Office Orders, Stamps, or
Currency, and if an extra four-pence is enclosed, we will guarantee safe de-
livery by registered post. Or request your nearest Chemist or Fancy Store
• to obtain one for you, and see that Dr. Scott’s name is on the Box.
Mo. 1 lair Brush, 6s. Od.
Mo. 2 Hair Brush, 7s. 3d.
Mo. 3 Hair Brush, 9s. 3d.
Mo. 4 Hair Brush, 11s. 6d.
Mo, 6 Hair Brush, 13s. 6d.
Dali Electric Aggociation,
54 MARCARET ST., SYDNEY.
P. 0 —Bor 221.
'Cheques can he Crossed Union Bank of Australia.
Send for Circular of Dr. Scott's Electric Flesh Brushes, Corsets, & Belts for Ladies & Gentlemen
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
18 NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N B —BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
Visit J. J. Ryan’s
DRAPERY AND CLOTHING ARCADE,
FOR CHOICE
Drapery, Millinery, and Underclothing, Men’s, Boys’ and Youths’
Clothing, Hats, Ties, Shirts, &c.
gp- ALL FRESH, CHOICE, FASHIONABLE, AND CHEAP. COME AND SEE.
ADDRESS :
J. J. RYAN, Drapery and Clothing Arcade,
760 and 762 GEORGE STREET, lIAYMARKET ONLY^
YANKEE DOODLE
a
so^ s
0/ *-SQN
2_ C 'X
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
Cdliqßni roR
IQ-BACPO _^X
YOX POPULI 1! ! This mighty power bap built the DIX SON’S great. Tobacco Factory. H owDi
voice ol' tbc people declaring the YANKEE POODLE met ( OEQI EBOK Jobsccos eQua ] ]n
demanded the supply-DJxson ard Sons responded-and hence a Tot scco 18 Tobacco,
the Southern Hemisphere, and consuming Lbe bulb ot all the Imported American Leaf loba
A squatter went into Farmer’s and asked
fora pair of gloves. The attendant, wearied out
with trying to fit an ordinary glove on to the
gigantic paw, gave up in despair. “ But what am
I to do ? ” asked the man of wool, looking dis-
mally at his great, rei, knuckly prehensors;
•‘what am I to do ; I’m going amongst nobby
people, and I can't go with paws like that r
“ What's the matter ? ” asked the shop-walker.
The assistant explained. “ Show me your hands,
please,” said the shop-walker. The squatter
spread them out beseechingly, and the shop-
walker leaned against the counter for support.
When he caught his breath, he said, “ Wrong shop
—go over to the pork-shop and get a ham sack.
Judging from appearances, Caledonia,
stern and wild, seems to be slowly but surely going
off her chump. First of all, Sir 'Bnry, by means
of his boneyed-tongued eloquence and captivating
looks, succeeds in persuading some of the canniest
of her sons to risk a cool million ior so in a neat
little thing of bis own; and now, from Goulburn
comes a tale of a soft-headed Scot who, meeting
with a downy colonial, the other day, asked,
•'Goln’tadoo it, Jim?” ‘‘Not much.’ replied the
other; “buts pose we go in here and have a smi-
lin' shake, loser shouts.” No sooner said than
done. The publican and a friend stood in also,
and the heathen cornstalk, whispering to the bcot,
observed, ‘‘Put, a bob in for me, an’ we 11 save
stakes.” This the guileless Sandy did. and the
worthy pair threw seventeen each. The bar-
keeper was stuck, and the colonial, reaching over,
coolly observed, “I’ll take my bob, as we saved
stakes,” and then, quietly pooketini- the coin
which he never nut in, he drank his beer and left.
Shortly after this, Sandy detected his mistake,
and, in wild anxiety to recover the shilling (which,
by the way, he didn't) he aetually-forgot to have
his own drink.
Here is the sort of caution we like. Says
the Brisbane correspondent of the Rockhampton
Bulletin: “Well, a certain captain of a certain
ship in a certain service has for loDg been desper-
ately in 'ove with a charming damselof a Southern
city.” At the same time, we thinks ho treads on
dangerous ground. Let him hear the words of a
veteran journal that has suffered and bled for libel.
We once called thingß by the right names, and had
to go to gaol for it. But an examnle will best
illustrate our meaning here. Supposing we knew
how the above scandal arose, we should go at it this
way: “A navigator, who is reputed to have ex-
isted on a portion of the earth's surface, and who
is more than suspected of having once sailed the
high seas in a capacity not unconnected with the
command of an apparatus for cleaving the waves,
and which (constituted one of a line, the reputed
proprietorship of which may or may not be a
matter for comment, betrayed symptoms of feel-
ings not altogether disconnected with sentiments
to which the bosom of youth is not entirely a
stranger. In other words-to be specific—he felt
not altogether indifferent to the charms of one of
a sex to which we need not particularly refer. The
residence or the charmer in question might be
hinted at as being situated in a city nearer the
South Pole than to the North. Well, this jolly sea-
dog, whose name was—” (Here pause; you have
said enough).
A hundred years henes, the educated Aus-
tralian or Englishman—and we suppose that all
white men under the British flag will then he edu-
cated—who peruses the musty records of our
Courts of Law will wonder at the savagery of
what Mr. O’Ryan terms “ this so-called nineteenth
century.” In the case at Stafford assizes, in which
the daughter of a farmer sued another farmer s
son for £6OOO for breach of promise, and recovered
£2OOO, it appeared that the “ defendant, when first
he asked for the girl's hand, had been cautioned
that he would have to De straightforward, as he
appeared disposed to wander from flower to
flower.” (Laughter ) He thereupon vowed eternal
fidelity, but In a little while his fiancee found it
necessary to tell him that his conduct was not such
as to allow of a serious engagement between them;
in reply to this, however, no wrote, asking that
by-goues should be bv-gones, and plaintively add-
ing: “Give me one more chauce before you throw
yourself away, and don’t think me an unhonour-
able young man, as you told me I was.” (Great
laughter ) Shortly afterwards, defendant, who
had inherited £OO 000, went to Birmingham to
undergo an operation which deprived him of a
considerable part of one thigh-bone While he
was in hospital, plaintiff, in reply to a letter he had
written, asking that she “she should stick to her
word,” said, “ i should consider it wrong to think
ill of anyone because of deformity of body, but we
can all of us improve our minds, which is of much
greater tmportar.ee. It is the mind that makes the
man.” (Laughter). But when defendant got well,
he cooled off again, and when his prospective
mother-in-law asked him to a Christmas party,
and the bride-elect enclosed with the invitation a
tender note from her own fair self, saying that
“ her happiness solely depended upon him, he
visited their house and idly excused himself from
attending the entertainment. On the day of the
party, plaintiff’s lather wentover to see defendant,
and found him engaged in the genteel sport of rat-
shooting. (Laughter). He also found that de-
fendant was on the point of being engaged to
another young lady. The plaintiff, a rather attrac-
tive girl, “ gave her evi ‘ence in a somewhat
broken voice, and burst inte tears on leaving the
witness-box.” They always do. Here’s another typi-
cal instance of our breach of promise system. It
actually came out in evidence that defendant s
constitution was utterly bad, that he was suffering
from necrosis consequent on his general condition
of health, that inflammation of the thigh-bone had
frequently recurred, and that, medically, it would
have been very imprudent for him to marry. No
doubt he was a very shabby young man. But the
fact remains that the parents of the girl, or the
girl herself, were apparently determined to have
him, healthy or moribund, necrosis or no necrosis
thigh-bone or no thigh-bone. Supposing he had
had no thigh-bone and no £60,000-what then t
And would the girl have been so firm in her belief
that “ the mind makes the man ” had he suddenly
lost £45,000 or £50,000 of his fortune ? The system
under which damages are pocketed by any woman
who has been so fortunate as to escape the disas-
trous consequences of fulfilling a marriage co, -
tract, entered into by her with her eyes wide open,
with a man who has neither a heart nor a thigh-
bone—a man unsound to the very core and marro w
—is a disgrace to civilisation and an insult to the
Intelligence of the aye. It is no argument in this
ease to say that the man deserves punishment tor
not sticking to his shameful bargain. That a man
physically so constituted should even promise to
marry is bad enough; that he should be permitted
(not to say encouraged or forced) to carry out his
promise, would be infamous. The girl has clutched
her gold. Perhaps she is the comparatively inno-
cent party in this barter of health and beauty lor
death ana dross—in this abortive parental truckle
whereiu, for a certain amount of cash down,
bills carrying heavy interest would be given, pay -
able by herself in long years ot gilded misery; and
payable, too, perhaps, by her children in the gaol,
in the lunatic asylum, or in the pothouse, whicber
fly the diseased and weak-brained human weeds
who find an evanescent stimulant in grog, ’■ he
only compensation tairly earned by any lather
who proieeses to feel hurt at his daughter not
having been mated to a man saturated with some-
thing very closely approximating to “ king’s evil,”
is a Hogging. Defendant should certainly be pun-
ished—but the fine exacted should go, not to ap-
peuse the greed of a disappointed fortune-huntress
and her grasping friends, but for the benefit of
society at large, which is outraged by anyone of
education who dares to act on the illogical and
unwarrantable assumption that the very laws
which, as is known by every farmer’s yokel,
govern the hereditary transmission of health and
disease in horses, sheep, and cattle, do not equally
apply to man. The tribunals of the land ordinarily
give no relief to the man or woman who makes a
fradulent contract. And would not such a mar-
riage contract have been a fraud, Dot alone upon
the woman, but, through her children, upon all
society? The example of even the hideouß case
of Lord and Lady Colin Campbell is lost upon
mercenary parents—
" For honoured well are charms to sell,
If priests the selling do.”


THE
M
IGNO
X^sura.©.
N
R '■s>”W % ' ■ 1 ’
i MM
f !:'/
111 Ml Cl’S
FAMOUS
Migrnon
x=>i^i^ro.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us—blazoning forth
their bald-imitations with a tremendous nourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
otfspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its naflie is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its Bize defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
Is guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
lllustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE. '
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best Known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
•'U-URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHACHE.
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALD 3, &C and
•teen internally cures DIARRHtEA, P
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other mtfarns aches
*hd pains,
Price, a/- Sold Everywhere,
C. E. MOULTON, sole propfi tor,
MELBOURNE AND u . DNEY,
PAINT
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
: . ;
AO.™, registered.
safe, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
- 032 ',!> a . nd General Debility, and all complaints
Trv^v, Prl l? g from lack of nerve force, as Neuralg-ia,
Anrl«* e V< Nervousness, Indisrestion, Loss of
female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
ans of Vital Power, &c. Ry its tonic
for i° o 'lt at, once removes ail cravlmr
nthoC By ,ta richness in phosDhorous and
TOm^° l ?S?, I }L vttallBln » elements, MARSHALL’S
thn iX NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
Solon. * yBtern - Prioe, 4a. 6d.. or 265. a case,
wVjpPDetors, MARSH ALL BROTHERS, M.P.B.
is* and consulting Chemists, 104 and
5 .. Ketr *tt‘eet near Park. Sydney, and
street, Circular-quay. TAKE NO 80BST1-
AYER’S PILLS.
A largo proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable tome, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and 1 always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro."
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1382.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta, Ga., says: “ For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, 1 suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dp. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s SJarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
ilitic taint, may be made healthy and strong
by its use.
Sold by all Druggists; $l, six bottles for
HLLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant pi eparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS' EUXONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c. Sold in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, ot 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations .
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co,, Sydney.
DEBILITY,
LOSS OF VIGOUR,
Nervous and Heart Diseases
EFFECTUALLY CURED.
Patients really desiring skilful curative treat-
ment, should consult
Doctor W. R. PARKER
whose wonderful skill in treating these complaints,
places him amongst the foremost speciallists of the
age; certainly first in Australia. The most con-
fidential relations between the Doctor and his
patients are observed.
CONSULTATION FREE-
-69 HUNTER STREET,
Three doors from Macquarie Street
m?
ZaN 1 EQUALLED
C^SYDNEY
t 1 either for
■ price or QUALITY]
■Forces
cQiur
OLEND
jx^oa
MARK.
COLLIB BLEND WHISKY-This is a BLBND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
Hr 308 GEORGE STREET.
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
W~ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Gcorge-straet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, weU made, well shrunk, and a perfeot fit
guatanteed.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
New south wales—monster consul
TATION on Hawkesbury Handicap, Metro-
politan Stakes, and Melbourne Cup, 1884. Capita).
£5OOO, in 10,000 shares at 10s. each. About 385
prizes—£3soo for horses, and £3500 prize gifts.
Plan of Distribution :—First horse, winner in
each event, £1000; second horse, £500; third horse,
£350 : starters, £350; non-starters £500—£3500.
Fi Bt prize gift, £600; second prize gift, £300; third
pr'ie gift, £150; 10 at £5O. £500; 10 at £35, £350;
30 at £3O, £400; 30 at £lO, £3OO ; 30 at £5, £lOO-
-
Application by letter only, addressed W. Burn-
hard, 110 Elizabeth-street; or Box 833, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Cheques payable to W. Burnhard or
bearer ; if cash, to register letters.
P.B.—Please state for whioh event. Prospeotua
by application.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES G-IVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
S
RSI
cc
s.
%
a
K
-
<3
*
O
r>
*
4
o
I
ff&S
*n
Lffi
s
rS
ca
%
$
CRESTS. COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
111.© ZE3©LlaTbl@ Eu.g"g”ies!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY.
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET W
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMIITGr, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES. ETC.
STOCK
IMPORTERS i
J " ■ t iw ISfIF
. r-
%
i-' '■
m
V2*.
%
ft
s
imm
I ,
a* 5*
rs?
S.r
ock
a!IP Wo q ,,' .
r CARDS.CHEMICALS. rCPMc
iqents jor
WJOHNSOHfcSONS" I PAPER.)
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD .


A PEETTY FACE.
What la more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to sooiety
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
A young lady in one of our pro-
minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not onlv
among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
ailment, failed to afford relief A
friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. She
made trial of it, and, to her great
joy. found a decided improvement as
the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
sible to say too much in praise of that
food old standard remedy, Emil
rese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
foul bieath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
ordered gtomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
PEARL CEMENT,
The Greatest American Prize-winning Discovery of tin
19th century.
ARTICLES MENDED CANNOT BE SEPARATED-
AM2EICAN NOVELTY CO., 203 Pitt St. (Only) Sydney,
SAVE TEE PKCISI
Use Pearl Cement, tw
greatest American
Discovery of the 19tn
cent.ury--iiever known
to (ail —for mending
CMiri, Crockery Glass,
Wood, Ivory, Leather,
&c. Price Is. for 'bot-
tle. Sold everywhere.
Send tothaAmefW
Novelty Co., 203 Pl t St,
Sydney, for whatever
you may requiro
whether the article is
intheCatalogueorno.
They deal m h early
everything.
Toothache Tincture, the
best remedy knownfor
gsss.tss.ts
b «lV tr pj.
272-paged Catalo o
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
203 Pitt Street. Sydney*
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
Printed and Published
paper Co «(.Limited), 34
by THiBULUrai Ney*'
’Pitt'St.Sydneyi N.B.W.
ROUND CAPE HORN.
We did not sail through the Summer seas
of the route via the Cape of Good Hope, but round
Cape Horn, which is accounted somewhat dan-
gerous in the Summer. The ice then breaks up in
the Polar regions, and drifts Northward in huge,
glittering masses, which tower at times hundreds
of feet out of the water, and appal the passenger
who, after listening to the weird tales of death
associated with these glassy floating islands, looks
upon them for the first time. Once, when a ship
left port never to return, people ascribed its disap-
pearance to pirates. But the days pf piracy m
Austral seas have gone with those of the Flying
Dutchman, the spectral ship of old Vanderdecken,
and its grisly crew, “to look upon whose fleshless
heads was death”—with the times in which the
superstitious sailor refused to sail on Friday, and
in which the British flag held not yet supremacy
in the Spanish Main. From Sydney to Cape Horn
is a distance of 5800 miles; and, after passing the
coast of New Zealand, 1203 miles from yourport of
departure, you meet with no land save The An-
tipodes ” (a cluster of rocky islets rising abruptly
out of the sea), until you reach the iron-bound
locality of Patagonia, about the inhabitants of
which little is known save that they are most en-
thusiastic cannibals.
* * *
At least, one or two vessels sailing between
England and Australia disappear annually, and no
word of them ever again reaches shore. They
strike icebergs in the gloom of night or fog, and
go down like the plummet of a sounding-line, send-
ing all hands to “ the beautiful bright veiled world
where the glad ghosts meet.” I remember several
Anglo-Australian vessels which have mysteriously
disappeared-among them, during the last few
years, the Loch Maree, Loch Fyne, .and Strath-
neven. The captain of the latter, who was a good
sailor and a brave man, once told, at Scowens
eaf<s, Sydney, how he had found himself embayed
by night, with two other ships, in what subse-
quently proved to be a huge horseshoe-shaped
iceberg. There was no turning back—behind him
was a fierce gale. He steered north—and met ice.
North-east—ice again. South-east—moi e ioe.
Death stared him in the face. The passengers
shrieked—their wails, he said, sounded in his ears
as a funeral-knell. But, when all hope had been
abandoned, one of the crew saw in the berg a dark
spot which, the captain thought, might be an
opening. And he steered for it, and passed safely
through—though, as the ship glided between the
horrid cliffs of glass, pieces of ice dropped upon
the deck from a hundred feet above the masts.
The other two vessels struck and went down, and
will not be heard of more till the sea gives up
its dead. Next voyage the Strathneven and its
captain left harbour never to return. Perhaps
this time she struck a small piece of drift ioe below
the water-line, and went down—or it may have
happened that t when only too late, the captain
and his men heard the sea-waves breaking on
some icy cliff of doom.
• • •
In daylight, a great iceberg affords an in-
expressibly beautiful spectacle. It moves almost
imperceptibly with the wind and current, and
often gives you the impression that one of those
lovely white and fleecy clouds you see on an
autumn evening l , when the gold ©f the dead sum-
mer vainly struggles with the wintry grey of the
fall of the year, had been taken down and set on
edge, and was being drawn before you as in the
panorama of a dream. But if even on a dim day,
beneath a leaden sky, the iceberg is an enchanting
sight, what shall one say when, his faculties in-
vigorated and his sense of enjoying all that is fas-
cinating in nature quickened by the piercing
breezes of the South, he sees it in the cold and
quiet moonlight, or in “ starshine dream-laden,”
bathed in translucent rays, which glitter and
shimmer on its minarets of diamond B , on its fluted
columns and cliffs of burnished silver, and on its
unattainable mountain sidings, which, like gigantic
tracts of uncut opal, show here and there trans-
oient gleams of burning red and blue, and which
here and there are sombre as the grave, black as
the gloomy abysses on which its frozen pinnaoles
majestically look down 1
• • •
Icebergs as large as the island of St. Helena
have been met with in these seas. They slowly
drift up from the desolate Antarctic legions, from
the dark and mysterious Victoria Land, where ex-
ists nor vegetation nor terrestrial quadruped, and
whose frowning coast-line of lofty mountains
covered with eternal snow is fringed by a perpen-
dicular frozen barrier 150 feet high—an apparently
endless unbroken line of icy wall. We of Aus-
tralia sometimes long to see that unknown country
“where the pelican builds her nest”—a country
that has, in my mind, long been associated with
the idea of Utopia, and in which may now, per-
chance, be settled the long-lost Leichhardt. In
Victoria Land, mayhap, the solitary sea-bird which
has, three thousand miles from the nearest land
inhabitable of man, followed our Bhip for days,
first saw light—the light it may have been of the
stately giant Erebus, 12,400 feet above sea-level,
which vomits forth a torrent of fire beside which
the display of Etna would be insignificant and
which sheds its lurid gleams upon ice-cliffs that
were of immeasurable antiquity a hundred ages
ere the Pyramids were built. An ancient and
strong-minded lady passenger had been trying all
day to catch that magnificent albatross with hook
and line. But “pretty cocky” won’t bite. The
lady explains that she wants its splendid breast
“for a muff.” What cares she for the frown of
that eccentric old German sailor, who sees in the
albatross a re-incarnation of the soul of some de-
parted seaman and wistfully gazes southward to-
wards the land where the angelic form that now
encases the spirit of his dead brother has squatted
on blue ice-cliffs beneath Mount Terror, and gazed
upon manifestations of the Aurora-Australis more
glorious than any yet vouchsafed to the sight of
mortal man ? The lady is practical. She is a
boarding-house keeper, and cannot comprehend
why the bird should soar towards heaven, instead
of descending to her little lump of pork. Perhaps
she also wonders whether the albatross would
make good hnsh, and whether the boarders would
know the difference.
* * *
That is the second stage of the journey.
Long ere you reach Cape Horn you nave left
behind you everything, save the Southern cross,
which directly reminds you of Australia. Most of
the birds have gone, and almost the only evidences
of life now seen on the ocean are the spout of an
occassional whale, and the much less frequent
a* ; rial circling of a “ molly-hawk.” The departure
of the birds seems to have dated from the time at
which the now murky sky ceased to flush at sun-
set, or to recall in any sense, the splendid pageants
of our tranquil tropic evenings. The thermo-
meter is below freezing point, and the log at short
intervals so dense that you can see nothing three
ship’s lengths ahead. Very different, this, from
my remembrances of the warm evenings in “the
long wash of Australasian seas,” when one stood on
deck and watched the rapid gliding of the nuge
phosphorescent bubbles in the wake of the ship-
bubbles. blue, sometimes, as the cloudless icy sky
of the Queensland uplands on a winter’s night-
bubbles which look as the shells of bubbles of tar
or of aniline dye would look were they filled with
sulphur smoke and hurried past on the pearly foam
beneath the glare of the electric light. I had seen
much phosphorescent water, but never as it was
there presented to me—m the shape of huge flakes
like the flakes of floating fire that career along
running water into which bitumen flows from a
burning warehouse.
* * *
And when your imagination is excited
rather by the sounds you hear than by the sights
you see—on a dark night, when the swell comes
up astern, and the wind whistles through the rig-
ging, and the ship rolls and heaves uneasily—you
may, as the desultory clanking of the iron chain
upon the iron mast falls upon your listening ear,
hear the din of the ghostly boiler-makers, wno, at
fitful intervals mockingly hammer the sides of
iron ships that have gone down into the awful
depths of ocean with many sailor-men. When the
captain’s little daughter, in '‘the wreck of the
Hesperus,” heard the ohurch-bells ng her father
said it was “ a fog-bell on a rock-bound coast.
Not so here, for ever and anon is borne to the
listening landsman the faint clangour of the beils
that ring in Dreamland, whose echoes float upon
the winds that blow from the Pole, and are lost
among the wave-crests. You hear cathedral
chimes upon the ohurchless deep, and listen to the
sound of oars in seas where no rowers row
J.F.A..
“Snakes,” of the Barooo, is a man who, in
his time, has played many parts. His latest dart is
steering souls along the narrow path which leads
to glory, and warning the unregenerate that, un-
less they repent, and do penance for their past
sins, they’ll speedily find themselves doing por-
poise-like flip-flaps in the boiling brimstone lake,
while thousands of playful little devils dance glee-
fully round the banks Jobbing harpoons into their
ribs, or blowing the stuffing out of their ‘innards
with nail-kegs full of nitro-glyoerine and dyna-
mite. “Snakes” now holds forth up Brisbane
way on odd Sunday evenings, and, on a recent
occasion, wound up a terribly hot and heavy dis-
course in these burning words: ‘And the Lord
will oome upon you suddenly like a thief in the
night, and there’ll be no mistake about th waj;
He’ll root you round when He does oome.
“ Snakes : ’ evidently believes he is well posted in
matters concerning the general business of the
Day of Judgment.
It was Patrick and Bridget’s day out on
the glorious Bth instant, and whether the boarders
liked it or not, cold wether and potted fish were
the staple dishes on many a hash-house table on
that eventful morn. Rushing down to the kitchen
in breathless haste to ascertain why the matitunal
muffins were not forthcoming, the landlady of a
Surry Hills caravanserai found her kitchen goddess
perched, half-dressed, before a cracked looking-
glass-one side of her mouth filled with a plait of
hair, and the other with a heap of pins, whilst her
hands were actively engaged plastering the roof
of her head with Liraburger cheese pomatum. A
sharp remonstrance from the landlady of course
followed; the only effeot being to cause Bridget t©
half choke with |rage, and pins, and hair, as she
yelled, “Is it me y r d be afther axin’ t’ cook th
SATISFACTION IN FULL.
FIRST GENTLEMAN: “YOU STEPPED ON MY SISTER’S CORNS WHEN DANCING, AND
YOU DID NOT AS MUCH AS OFFER AN APOLOGY I, THEREFORE, DEMAND
SATISFACTION.”
SECOND DITTO (wealthy Lower Orders): “WHAT DO YOU MEAN BY SATISFACTION?
THERE’S SIXPENCE; GO AND BUY YOUR SISTER A CORN PLASTER—THAT’S THE
BEST KIND OF SATISFACTION I CAN THINK OF.”
brekflsht an’ our shwate Docthur Mhoran cumin
up th’ harbur now ? G’long out ov dat 1 Shure Oi
wudn’t looshe th’ furst soight ov me Bishop fur all
th’ sitywashins in y’r dhurty land. Mebbe ye have
a pollynayse up-sthairs that ye cud lind me th’ loan
av fur th’ day, ’case me own’s busht up th’ back,
an’ Oi’m afraid av me loife Docthur Mhoran will
see th’ sphlit whin Oi knalo down t’ git his Grace's
blessin’.”
“Oh that men should put an enemy
into their mouths to steal their brains away!” That
kind of sentiment is good enough for Brother
Booth, mind you—though he needn’t be afraid of
the consequences, for obvious reasons. But here’s
a shocking example from Bligh, wherever the
eternal Hades Bligh is:—“The proprietor of the
Telegraph Hotel (Mr. Geo. McHugh) lately visited
the metropolis in order to replenish his stock
which arrived in town last week, and judging from
the samples we have been invited to taste, we do
not hesitate in saying his liquors, etc., are pure
and unblemished.” Pure and unblemished I we
should say they scorched all the way down. For,
further on, the editor of the Watchman sends a
patriotic t hrill through every native-born youth
and maiden by the announcement that “The Austr-
alian (sic) Government has decided to despatch four
cruisers round the world with the object of seek-
ing openings for trade. One of the vessels will
visit Australia and the Pacific Islands ” And
again, with that thorough knowledge of Anglo-
Australian politics, for which the bush editor is
Ijustly renowned, he lets his readers into the se
crets of State, thusly:—“lt is rumoured that
Mr. Service, the Premier of V ictoria, has dismissed
Cashel Hely (sic) from the secretarship (sic) to the
Agent-General for Victoria, owing, it is alleged to
Hely’B (sic) collusion with the Home Rule member
of tne House of Commons over the question of a
protectorate in New Guinea ” Yet the leaders of
democratic thought almost howl their heads off in
their efforts to let a suffering public know that
the country is being ruined by assisted immigra-
tion and Chinese cheap labour, while the erstwhile
honest tank-sinker unostentatiously seats himself
in the editorial chair and gouges out reliable infor-
mation pro bono publico, never thinking for a
moment that there are still fences to be ereoted,
and gum trees are patiently awaiting the ase to
be laid to their roots,
The lines upon whioh “Antipodes” has
written “The Revelations of Common Sense"
(London: E. W. Allen, 1884) are admirable, and if
the execution of the work were only equal to its
leading idea—that of holding up a mirror to cleri-
calism; from the standpoint of a ™ fl?*
Theism—it would be a book that should go tar.
But the good plan is worked out
prosaicly as to damn all chances of the .Revel
tions ” being a success. Having adopted the form
of a dialogue between an Anglican vicar
unoxthodox individual styled Common Sense,
“Antipodes” ought to have seen to it that tee
Vicar wasn’t drawn as a mere man of s inrie
so has he been drawn— absolutely without a single
word to say for hiraself—which makes the victory
over him by his antagonist so easy as to be worth
next to nothing. Indeed, pity ,is excited in the
reader’s mind for the poor cleric, who is hardly
ever allowed to get a word in edgeways. com-
mon Sense” goes on pouring out a stream or
Coleridgean talk anent Cosmogony, Miracles,
Kindergarten, Instinct, Vaccination, Marriage,
Lies, Sunday, Popery, Wesleyans, Metaphysial,
Hell, the Devil, and a whole host of similar sub-
jects, beneath the floods of which the Vicar is
literally asphyxiated. No doubt common sense is
tbebasisof all this talk; but it is common sense
dildted with a deal too much water, and without
e’er a squeeze of lemon. Boiled down, so far as the
sermons of “Common Sense ” are concerned, ana
with the Vicar’s part re-written, so as to make
him to some extent worthy of a foeman s steel,
the book would be what its author intended it to
be-a telling argument that Theology is not Re-
ligion; as it is, the merit pf the idea is by
the abundance of husk with which the sound grain
is mingled. Had only as much skill been shown
by “Antipodes” in the dressing up aB ,\ n h< F;??
original conception of his subject, he would e
hit the white. Still, inasmuch as his j®
culated to be seminal to some extent, a measure
of forgiveness may be accorded its imperfections
of form, since, as Pope says,
“Of the two, less dangerous is th’ offence )(
To tire the patience than mislead the sense
but tire the patience these “Revelations” most
certainly do. It is, however, their sole demerit.
The “Wild West” is the title of a novel
show which has the New Yorkers by the wool to-
day, and which professes to bo an exhibition of
life on the border, its pastimes, and its dangers. A
gentleman who rejoices in the title of Buffalo Bill
runs the biz.., and amongst the rest of his very
much mixed performers are bona fide representa-
tives of the Pawnee, Sioux, and Omaha “ Inguns
—all members of unfriendly tribes when at. home,
but who have for the present agreed to bury the
hatchet in order to scoop in the almighty dollar,
and enable themselves to have at least one good
howliotr tear before the Great Spirit calls lor a
personal audit of their sculping stewardship.
Everyonewho takes partin this sensational shivoo
has had the experience he illustrates-" bin ttaar
himself,” as the proprietor puts it—lrom Buffalo
William down to the man who chews the meat tor
the Indian’s pemmican sausage. The whole of the
company pig together on the show-ground, and a
curious mixture of civilisation and savag ry is
occasionally seen when an Indian squaw is dis-
I covered hauling on a pair of gold-clocked, navy-
blue stockings; or Buek Taylor, the King of the
Cow-boys —a rough-looking Hercules, six feet
three in his vamps, wearing long, thickly-populated
curls reaching to his shoulders, and a beard about
half a life-time old-is found dickering with an
ice-cream cart driver for another “ pint o yellow
snow-juice.” The first thing a cow-boy is taught
to do is to throw the tangling lasso, and it is no-
thing strange, we believe, to Ond the crowing cow-
infant lassoing the maternal breast with a strand
pulled out of his cow-parent’s bcot-lace. Aston-
ishing tales are told of the deeds done with the
snaky line by the cow-boys when on a Jamberoo;
and amongst these is a story of Buck Taylor s, to
the effect that a select crowd of these ox-enoour-
agers, having driven their cattle into a certain
Western town, paid a visit to the gallery of the
local theatre, and amused themselves by lassoing
the ballet-girls as they slung their saltatory appa-
ratus round the stage. Just as a Blanche de Poic-
tiers, or a Nellie St. Clair, would point her toes
seduotively at the roof, “ swoosh ” would go a cow-
boy’s lasso, and down the fair nymph would come
on her back in a style calculated to “bust the
boards, and then away she would sail in the air
like a pawnbroker’s guardian angel trying to get
into heaven backwards. After half-a-dozen or so
of the affrighted Taglionis had gone up to glory, a
cry of “ Shame ” and “ Chuck ’em out” arose; the
cow-boys pulled out their ilre-irons, and half-an-
hour after this the theatre looked like a gigantic
collander caught in a tropical hailstorm, and the
happy old coroner of the town stood on his head
for joy at the thoughts of the coming harvest.
The “Wild West”—to use an Alfredism—“takes
well.”
On 30th July, at Brooklyn Gaol, Jefferson
a negro murderer, who was about to be hanged,
requested and obtained an audience of the repre-
sentatives of the Press, of whom some fifteen wei e
present. Before the conference commenced, the
prisoner turned to the Under-Sheriff and said, with
great nonchalance, “ Won’t you send me a box of
cigars? I would like to give these gentlemen
some; I want to return good for evil as well as I
can, although I suppose it will be a great surprise
to them.” The cigars were brought, after whicn
Jefferson had a free talk. The substauce of his
remarks was that he had not been dealt fairly with
by the newspapers, but that, as he had now ex-
perienced a great change of mind, he would refrain
from saying some things on that head which he
intended to say. He also wanted to say something
about capital punishment, but since he had be-
come a changed man he thought it would be just
as well to say nothing about it. Then, turning to
the Sheriff, he asked if it was true that the sur-
geoDS were going to cut up his body after he was
dead, as he nad seen something of that kind in the
papers. The Sheriff reminded him that, at his own
request, the doctors had promised to examine his
brain. “That is all right,” he added; ‘but, if
they examine my head, that is no reason why they
should cut up my whole body.” Jefferson was
then “launched into eternity.” This is as it should
be. When we hang a man, we do it good-naturedly
and not out of revenge. We hang him merely
because he can’t agree to any reasonable extent
with the great majority of society; and, as when
he is about to be “turned off” we have clearly
got the upper hand of him, we should make
things as pleasant as possible for our enemy in his
last moments. When, therefore, Mr. Charlie
Cowper and his assistants next give a seance on
the gallows at Darlinghurst we shall expect to see
the culprit allowed every chance of writing to the
newspapers, and talking to the reporters, and
handing round a tortoiseshell cigar-case bearing
his monogram in silver, and discussing the volume
on capital punishment written by the 1 Üblic
Librarian at Hobart. Some people may feel in-
clined to laugh at this style of execution. We, on
our part, consider it an exceedingly gentlemanly
entertainment.
Don’t physic, for it weakens and destroys,
but use Hop Bitters, that builds up 1 Read.


PURE COUNTRY BULK.
3) B E milk supplied by the
fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
*n<L h *i ALWAYS PURE,
g f^ om the country districts, as
ree xrom city contaminations.
Hastfler.
2 r stained 11 ! I'manufactured 1 'manufactured at their own depS
Southeraciairv! - 1 ® best hutter-makers in thi
lern ine C
era dairy districts.
Jben 'cmly 8 t ’7 i< p. e daily, Sundays excepted,
®Pecial cart • delivery is made. Butter by
Weekly. clt Ji daily; suburbs, three times
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
HARBOUR street.
umbrellas
STUDY ECONOMY
£3 and
Hare yourTTmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
entad
Al fx. BQRTHWIGK,
p Importer of
k>. a e ’ and Ornamental Glass,
U & COLOR MERCHANT,
i ag **s**R and decorator,
tlverer Beveller, and Embosser.
I *AIn .
(J^„ B^ 0k of Paperhangings of the most
„ sas ever Been “ the colonies.
ns sent post free.
28x GEORGE street,
■ Opposite Hunter Street.
PBBYANDCO.,
p SB King-street.
"«Ws Mercers, k
qi .
h!i ed in Pit 6d *’ Beldom equalled I Never
quality or finish.
68. 1 for Winter, large variety, lowest
' e ckty ea
On« ew and Bt ybsh shapes.
Cufr x oi'i'UHu snapes.
8 > Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &c.
& CO.. 96 King-street.
m
<0
C
<9
ft:
*£
o
a:
as
Q
o
2
0-
m
Cfc
v
\X
ft*
is
BULL BOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass’ Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award giveu at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BU LLDOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTl3LL & CO.,
Sole Agents. .
Anglo -Australian investment
FINANCE and LAND COMPAN Y
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Capital, £500,000, in 50,000 Shares of £lO each.
Henry Gorman, Esq. J.P., Chairman.
Hon. Fred. A. "Wright, M.P., Vice Chairman.
C. C. Skarratt, Esq.
W. H. Paling, Esq., J.P.
J. H. Newman, Esq.
Benjamin James, Jr.,
Esq.
Deposits received at following- rates
At call Five per ce;«t.
„ 3 months .. .. Five and a half per cent.
„ 6 ~ Six per cent.
„12 „ .. ... Seven per cent.
INVESTING SHARES :
Shares are now being issued.
Full particulars on application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS :
Half-yearly dividends, at the rate of 1% per
cent, per annum, have been paid since establish-
ment of Company.
ADVANCES:
Loans, repayable by monthly instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Entllili Papers and Magazines received by
every Mali.
ROYAL ARCADE. GEORGE ST.. «SB SYDNEY.
—
SEASON, 18S4.
PEAPES and SHAW
Aug
Have the pleasure to inform their friends and the public that they
"OW OPENING FOR THE GOWNS SEASON,
MILLINERY AND STRAW GOODS
a LL the newest dress materials,
EARASOLS, of the newest colourings and design -,
w Trimmed and IJntrimmed, Gilt Ribs, and Newest Handles.
and Imitation LACE GOODS
In
Cr
and Black, as well as the Various Shades in New Coloured Lace Goods.
8o » NEW GOODS and NOVELTIES in the following departments:—
&
rBMMINGS
u b ILK HANDKERCHIEFS
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING
CHILDREN S UNDERCLOTHING
STAYS aDd CORSETS
SILKS, SATINS, and MANTLES
EVENING DRESS MATERIALS.
V supwi Our Plain Drapery Department
6w an unusually large assortment of NEW GOODS for the Season, and we are
St * e eti n re our P rices wIU compare favourably with any house in the trade.
i 8 ‘ Counterpanes, Calicoes, Blankets, Flannels, Irish Linens, Table Linens, &e
Vv Gentlemen’s Departments.
siz 8n 5 n ®, carfs 1 all the latest shapes in Linen Collars; Gentlemen’s Gloves, in every make
> anci colour; Gentlemen’s Umbrellas; Waterproof Clothiog;; Gentlemen’s White ’
,ANd * and Coloured Shirts of every description,
J Jlot hinl R ? READY-MADE CLOTHING.-We are almost daily opening out Men’s and Bovs’
ut on the most scientific principle, and of a reliable and durable character.
ING DEPARTMENT.—AII the Newest Woollens for the Season. Skilful Cutters and
*
Moderate Prices.
& SHAW, Importers and Manufacturers,
824, 32fi, 328 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
123 Palmerston buildings, old broad street, London.
m
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Are 3iTo-w Open..
h
®eSLEERY’S HOTEL,
J °diet of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. KIcCL!
E Bar up-stairs.
4t IFJcGLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHOUT HORH
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the olubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon he the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
TRADE
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS,
extracted from the bark and comb
of the fir tree, consisting of Pine
Wool Wadding, Oil, Extract for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
failing remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and ail; nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Sole Wholesale Agents,
S. HOFFNUNG and CO„ Sydney.
None gennine without trade mark and signature,
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
M Warranted first quality
v • Charges str i ctly modera te
MARSHALL BROTHERS
Surgeon dentists , 06MAR k ETST e
TEETH PAINLESSLY STOPPED.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a lerge and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
Nitrous Oxide or Laughing Gas.
Black Swas* Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnifloient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TJnd.exta,ls:er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
9
£
S 3
m
INVALUA
surrißi
£
to
Qss
ion
u
efi
Ner
you
s He
Ss
gen
ADAPTED FOR T
Colonies? 1
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
n
R. BUR CIS
sfpp# =s r- '
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to-measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 Pi TT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for st 2f»-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
|®~ THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2*£©,t-a.x@d.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS*
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
SOS Georgs Street,, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO/S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It la bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ Whiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT ox PARLIAMENT, 187 J
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund ...£138,000
Directors*
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C.RoHeston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq'
General Manager:
J)'. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen,
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Kedfern, Giralambone.
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woe I
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
W. 23. iiriell & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & AEIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 8001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
M, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c,
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 ICenft Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
(NORRIE and MAYER.
Factory and Warehouse, '
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
REGINALD TONIS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
AFTEJI OEFORS
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WHISKERS.
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, and
will do it on cither bald head or
bare face, force 9 heavy Mous-
tache in j tow* 2 to 4 week a and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
BCFOns after
Copyrighted.
3 J phtt. No injury t easily applied, certain in effect, Packets le.Gd.
each, 3 for 3 s. 6d.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation
'/Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Ayent, Box 730, G.P.Q., Sydney,N.B, W
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OB’ PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all oK customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
Robert butcher &
(Late William Long),
C O
lar WIFE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
m GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSE?! THE TOWN HALL, SHINE?
Couniwp Orders receive prompt atfeent


Q-olcL Te _ well©£'3 r -
* .. R3GI-TEEED.)
*
5 <s»
WATCHES, 3os. E-A-CH*.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended^
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR P EVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS, j - . .
At all Druggists and Chemists.
DRINK IT 1
DRINK I t '•
DRINK I 1 ’ !
DRINK it!
&
China , Glass , Earthenware , & Fancy Goods.
STREET.)
WYNYAKD
(OPPOSITE
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104, KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS IloteliS centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c,
Sup« rior Accommodation tor Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
The most Comfortable ane < ommodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Mandersand Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegram* from all parts of the colony posted up.
JACH T
A.J.C. CIGAR DITAN AND HAIR-DRESSING
91 King- street,
gg- N.8.-I ALWAYS BACK THE FIEI- I '-
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
MALTED CO
S. FRY & SON'S, Bristol, London, and Sydney
“An ordinary Cup contains more of tbe active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter. Lancet.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
m
QIW.E
mwm
all SMnlus
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beveratre should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY wit i any of
the other brands, when they will And a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
Hiaarars
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Haa secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
LBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS,
vjf Gilboy’a Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
816 George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
HALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
EXHIBIT
Pff*
ta 111 .fti
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky,
J. 80RIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELV SN*and SONS’
Edinburg n Pale 4 .e.
T. JONES and CO.,
65 MACQtTARir-STREET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASK
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
USE NOTHING BUT
STANDARD MIXED PAINT.
HAS NO DIRT NOR HARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory: CDWPERWHARP, SYDMEY.
See Evening News advt.
BLAKE’S IMP
STEAM PtTM
H. P, 6RE6OB y
17 PIT T sTB
sypnby
,-ptj ]5
ARE SOLE AGENTS f ir0 ~
andMveinStoc.a.dto
A$ 0 '
FIRE PUMPS
EEL •«• v'
light servic
BOILER-FEED PU^ ll >S rE pP^T 9
TANK OR
MINING PUMPS r ,Tj J A.V& O
COMBINED AIR & DIR
TANNERY Pl/MPS.
SUGAR-HOUSE PU MP ®
VACUUM PUMPS pjjjlpS
DEEP-WELL-SINKIL
SEND FOR PRICES AN
CATALOGUES EUR"
? oR' VAIIPi
rffiQ
X M #
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, |
Manufacturer of all kinds of iErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gob Medal for Aerated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for IC I
