

tarsal :E?r ovlders. "Cmversal nParo-'sT-Id.ers-
OF
tes.
HORDERN AND SONS,
EMPORIUM, KAYMARBCET, OILY.
ft a ■ ■ ,
Novelties! Spring Novelties ! The Opening ol the Spring Trade.
Steamer . The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season.
• ™ 4.1, n AT«-n roof 'Milliiifirv. janrl ftvervthincr fresh in Laces. Ribbon
%
' %
*1
‘>g a charmin'- variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything l'resh in Laces, Ribbons,
Y% „ ' Y % Lies, Collars, iflowers, Costumes, and Dress Materials, suitable for wear during the Spring months.
0 V ACiS » collars, X lowers, LA/SLumtMs, auu JUJton mutu KUJ, ouiucinyiv av/c JL o
aglxifi cent stock of Furniture o£ all kinds, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, Window Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
requisite and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and substantially,
and we are this season in a position to give BETTER \ ALIJE THAN EVER !
to
Onr Only Address
HORDERN AND SONS,
Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
kSA_L PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
[Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
33P Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
Plumbing, Gas fitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S "FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM ” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Am Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BOM ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney,
Full particulars and prioe on application.
OTQU
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
H. L. SUMMIERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. ST7MMERFXELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON, E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
EST Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
C3r. lESiei.srtooroxTV,
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
EXTRAORDINARY SALE
or
WINTER AND MILLINERY.
New Stock of Ladies’ Gloves, Laces, and Fichus.
The Choicest Stock of Fancy Goods in Sydney.
Parasols, Umbrellas, Bags.
Purses and Fancy Ware.
W» W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitf-streef.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
C< ATER’S system of importing: all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
/ prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS, LACES, GLOVES, AND
1 M DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great sucsess We have
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICE- 2 .
CATEE,
19 3 and 195 PITT STREET.
W. HU & CO
merchant Tailors, Habit and
Bobo makers.
Trousers from 31s. to 40s
ALBERT HOUSE, TEMPLE COURT, ELIZABETH STREET,
jgg- n.b.—Mr. SHEARS BY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer and Co.
W. Shearsby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court, Elizabeth-st.
m. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
Champagne
HeMsteck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
RICHARDS & Co., London.
Solo A Rents for Heidsiectr & Co., Reims.
mm
C. B. HODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
m~ TWO SPECIAL PHIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE EIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Obboenk ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy,
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.
I aii
397 GEORGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
and at
LONDON AND ‘WOLVERHAMPTON,
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENCLAND.
IMPORTERS OP
Cos'
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Oha
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, ana &
Implements.
I
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
BOILERS.
Vertical aad Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, PJ^trafnisers.
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam H
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY. ga*
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding M^i°team-P ower '
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hana a
Slotting
and
English and American Agricultural
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, o gnellers, 1
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers
_ plant* XffjX
Railway Contractors’ Material and Fur nish ln?s ’ j
Coach Builders’ Sundries—Axles, Springs, Wooden ware, Leathers an
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. . Qalvain*
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I J ousts-
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvemen
In CarP® 1
inters
/fO#
Particulars and Price Llßts may be had on appii° fltio
AND
BRISCOE, DRTSDALE
387 Gaoraa Straat. SydnaV’
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES*'
BRANCH OFFICES.
SotrrMßw District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn
Yass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundr*
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culeairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulonc-
Carratnool
Hay
W*Bt*rw District, N.S.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tam worth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
SOtJTHBRW AHD SOUTH-WBSTERN LINB
Brisbane
Roma
Dalbyj
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Lxm:
Capelia
Comet
Rockhampton
Rogantungan
Emerald
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Rayernwooa Junction
Agents In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH ft 00., LIMITED.
WT Agencies in all parts of the world.
Foster’s Bugl eßfi
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
AgS O^ W J
The JBBBT A&® -ca $
SOLD
by A^
go^
jif^®
A<*
Yirgoe
ZSZlS&SifiptifS'
Branch, Pay» Die y.
T^jdm
O^MW
beat of
Arthur


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 71—New Series.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1884.
Price—6d.
Threshing for Truth.
tmm m m ##
V hn ////|Q / in
■ * * Mlll/llfl#
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER S, 1884.
OtTR attempt, a few weeks back, to convey
to our readers some idea of the raison d'etre
of Socialism, as explained by KDglish
Socialist writers, has, we are glad to find,
excited an intelligent interest. We have re-
ceived a good deal of correspondence on the
subject—some desiring information respect-
ing details,and seine criticising the Socialists’
propositions. It is a matter for regret that
we are not able to elucidate all the points
referred to us. But, fortunately, we dis-
claimed at the outset any competent or ex-
haustive knowledge of the subject, and pro-
fessed to do no more than supply a digest of
our own haphazard studies. There seems
now a general assent on the part of unpre-
judiced persons to the proposition that the
existing structure of society is not only not
the best possible, but intolerably and
perniciously faulty. But the question
whether the Socialists’ proposals of a
remedy are worthy of adoption, opens
up quite different and very debateable j
grouod. The matter is one which de-
mands matured consideration and frank
study. Only those who obstinately answer
to the description “ears have they and will
not hear,” will decline such research. As a
general rule, theories and systems which are
new embody much that is erroneous and
false. The ffrst locomotive engine wasn’t so
very much preferable to a team of horses ;
aud an engineer of to-day would un-
doubtedly endorse much that was said
against it by the most bigoted objectors of
the day of its inauguration. He would re- j
cognise that it was, as they alleged, and as
the inventor denied, dangerous alike to
those who undertook to run it and to
those who were invited to trust to it
as a means of conveyance. So with new
systems. They- may be in many respects
fairly chargeable with the faults and perils
which are by adverse critics attributed
to them, and still be, like the first locomo-
tive, fraught with principles which, after
correotion and adaptation, in lieu of mere
denunciation, will confer unspeakable bene-
fits upon the human race. What is required
in the one case is, perhaps, what has been
proved requisite in theother. That is to say,
thatopposing and hostile interests should be
combatted and vanquished until, instead of
noarly all the learning and intelligence of an
age being employed in picking faults with a
view to prove the impracticability of the
system, these influences should be brought
to bear in good faith and earnest endeavour
on the task of eliminating faults, suggesting
improvements, and perfecting the principles
and the system for the use of mankind.
* * *
Thus, even if the main principles professed
by Socialists becorreot, it is very likely that
the fashion in which they are put together
is crude, inharmonious, faulty, and, possibly,
dangerous, instead of serviceable; and, in-
versely, demonstration that there are im-
perfections and dangers in the system, is not
necessarily proof that the principles upon
which the system is based are unsound in
themselves. There is, probably, no country
on the face of the earth where the principles
o! Socialism can be discussed to better ad
vantage and under circumstances more
avourable to imparliality aud abstract
judgment than our own. Australia is in
the stage of development referred to by
Georg a as affording the best opportunity
for individuals to reap the benefit of their
own exertions. A vast proportion of the
soil is still nationalised, or, rather, not mon-
opolised—yet. The tendency of wages to
starvation point, although observable, is
not scandalous. Jt is true that the
system of wholesale alienation already
commences to operate in accordance
with George’s theories, by concentrating
population in the large cities. Every father
in Australia knows and feels how hopeless it
is to look to the country for openings for
his boys. And it is notorious—scandalously
notorious that homestead settlement,
known to us as free selection, is p rpetually
being swallow»d up by aggregation of big
estates, almost, it not quite, as rapidly as
succeeding batch, s of selections are dis-
posed of, ostensibly to bona fide small
holders. But there is still access to the soil
to an extent entirely unknown in older
countries. And the blessings of fresh air and
country hamlet-life are still obtainable by
THE HON. MR. BRYCE, EX-NATIVE MINISTER OF NEW ZEALAND.
a large proportion of the population. In
consequence of this, there is here neither the
actual penury and wretchedness, nor the ac-
companying hopelessness and desperation,
which oppress and exasperate the minds of
the masses in countries such as England,
where the entire area of the territory is
monopolised. A suffering people cannot
reason coolly. Our people are not yet
suffering, and they consequently can take a
dispassionate view of the whole case, if it
interests them sufficiently.
• • •
This fortunate condition is not only true
in theory. We have tangible evidence that
it is true in fact. The tenour of the corres-
pondence which our articles have evoked,
may be adduced in evidence. From that
correspondence we select a couple of repre-
sentative letters Tor publication, as illustra-
tive of the intelligent and collected style in
which <he Australian turns the matter over
in his mind. One writer is a physician, the
other describes himself as being “engaged
in business.” It will be seen that both have
fixed upon the same passage for critism. The
physician thus writes: —
“These Socialists— Hyndman, Morris, &o.— are
completely at f «ult, and doing: a great injustice to
Henry George. The latter explains in ‘Social
Problems’ that new inventions, by releasing so
many hands from the production of the by-
products, allowed them to increase'the production
of food staples (the produce of the land), provided
the raw material (land) was not all monopolised.
The logic of the text is unimpeachable, provided it
is taken for granted that weavers could not possi-
bly do anything but weave. The ability in man-
kind to make new inventions, one would suppose,
would indicate enough savez to allow them to turn
their hands to anything: and, on the face of it, it
seems absurd to suppose that labour-saving ma-
chines should be also labour-crippling— allowing
the few to gain unlimited advantage over the many
(a tide of advantage that, under healthy conditions
as to the supply of labour, would as quickly ebb as
tlow). 1 briefly state that these Socialists may
have rushed off on one of George’s side question g
(The Functions of Government), and made it their
main point. Bccau e e the Governments aresuccess-
ful with Postal affairs and Railways, it does not
follow that they could manage Coffee Palaces and
Matrimonial fixings. There is no tendency, as far
as I can see, towards monopolies in the victualling
trades, or for a handful of men to monopolise all
the women. The case is different with railways
and there is a great tendency towards monopoly
in many other things; but, of all the iniquitous
mown oly drifts, that of the land is the worst-for
it makes monopoly of inventions, and many other
monopolies, possible. Ex.yr.: Does in not naturally
follow that the man who controls the land controls
the cotton crop, and in turn the new-power looms
—so that not only may the weaver not dig, but,
even if he had the capital, he could not own and
use the be6t of looms without his cotton ? “ What
is Socialism?” One might as well ask, what is
Science? Science is exact knowledge, and vice
versa; but how much of exactness and how much
of science ? Are not some sciences more exact,
more scientific, than others? What is Socialism?
It is, in a sense, the antithesis of, and it is the only
cure for, monopoly. That whioh has created the
monopoly drift— the advance of civilization— makes
Socialism possible. In fact, Socialism is a higher
form of Monopoly—State monopoly—and is even
at work now: more so in N S.W., where we have
Government railways, manhood suffrage, and an
enormous education vote, than in England or Ame*
rica. GEORGEisnotsooriglnalasheßcemstobe: he
di’aws very largely on Mill and Spehcer. The
latter showed a striking analogy between the
animal body and the body politic, and Georoe
merely follows this up when he says (‘ Social Pro-
blems’) that the advance from the savage to the
civilised state is like the development from the
jelly fish to the mammal. You may cut thealmost
homogenous jelly-fish to pieces, and each part wilt
live : in the analagous state of society, monopoly
would have no raison d'etre. Now for your last
leader (6th September, 1884): The division made
by these Socialists of property into personal and
common property in the very extreme of Social-
ism, and is not possible in the presentstage of civi-
lization, if at all. Next: ‘We have seen that
honest exchange signifies the exchange of one
commodity, which has cost a certain amount of
labour to produce, for any other commodity
which embodies the exertion of a like amount of
labour.’ This is Communism run mad. Genius,
not reaping the advantages natural to it, would
die, because it is on these advantages it exists, and
by these that it was brought forth. What is
genius, and why should the labour of one man be
considered equal to the labour of many others?
Genius is simply the talents of many rolled into
one; it is not a something out of nothing, but it is
rather quality taking the place of quantity, and it
is acquired even more slowly than the knowledge
of the dunce, because it is acquired through the
labour of back generations (heredity) as well as
pretent (centralization?) If this were not so, it
would not necessarily be true that ‘ practice
makes perfect,’ since the greater the genius the
less practice required. At the same time, it is
clear that difliculties arise on the decision of what
is the equitable ‘reward of genius’ in contradistinc -
tion to monopoly. Now, turning from the spiri-
tualistic side of the question, i.e. Christian Social-
ism, I am more at one : but yet, to say “It
is easier for a camel to pass through the
eye of a needle,” etc., should be taken figur-
atively, not literally, or even so far approach-
ing tho latter as to altogether condemn riches.
‘Now for the remedy.’ Communism, if thorough j
is certainly a rough remedy—such like as cutting
off the head to cure the toothache would be. It
would produce, homogeneity in place of unity in
diversity: a healthy organism, but one lower in
the scale—a jelly-fish. ‘ A pretty state of matters
this would be . . . ; all great and noble work is
deemed impossible, save through hope of money
reward.’ But money is merely the power of ex-
change, or Liberty in a handy form, and Liberty
or Freedom (money) is a prerogative of the higher
forms. Money is not the root of evil except when
wrongly acquired, and it is so then only because it
is necessarily in evil hands. Great wealth has
hitherto, of necessity, been wrongly acquired :
hence the comparison of rich man with the camel
and needle, etc. The lust of gain did not urge on
Shakespeare; but perhaps it did his parent, or
other souroes of his genius. * But this is conttsea
tion. Far from it—it is retribution.’ Yes, in a
sense; but ‘give a thing (orallow) and take a thing
is the d(evil’s) gold ring.’ You will now see the
estimate I hold of these Socialists beside Henrt
George. I will now glance at a sub-leader of the
S.M. Herald of sth September, 1884, in which the
absolute is compared with the relative in a style
wortby’offyour contemporary. ‘Protection has
endured in the United Btates not by reason of its
inherent soundness and strength, but because the
development of its natural consequences [absolute
has been checked by Free-trade between the States
of .the Union [relative].’ Gracious! What does
Protection mean, unless there is something to be
protected against ? And a house divided again s
itself cannot stand.”
• • »
It is by discussion such as this that truth ii
sifted out of error. We certainly do not


TEE POPULAR IRANI
rwy
BRIAN BORU
"J^XOTE.—YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie.
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &o.
Brian Boru
Whisky
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
WEI
when matured by age, Is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 8 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
TUB Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
mr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
as. PBR IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single little lijiirW,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET I
where you ean obtain for
ed-
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINK, BHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot he surpassed at mty
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open in
M A R K E T 8 T R B B T.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONB but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome or all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNBLISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
YERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINS.
. Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR +** PALE BRANDY,
6s. ftd. per bottle,
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street , Sydney.
object to be thus criticised; partly because
the critic is discriminating respecting theo-
ries which we merely attempted to state
without endorsing them, for the very pur-
pose of inducing investigation, and partly
because we do not pretend to have a mono-
poly of wisdom or knowlege. We are con-
scious, indeed, that we have but feebly
stated the case of the Socialists, and thus
have, in some respects, exposed their prin-
ciples to unmerited strictures. Thus, in the
illustration of the weavers, the Socialistic
writers had preceded that part of their ar-
gument by a demonstration that what was
true of weavers was equally true of all other
occupations. They had nothing to turn
their hand to, and the writers had suggested
that even were access to land available, by
the soil being nationalised, as advocated by
George, there would be hardship, because
husbandry itself is an art not to be acquired
at a moment’s notice. But we think it likely
our correspondent has hit a blot, and that
the hardship would be incidental, and not
essential. Next, we venture to join issue
on the point relative to the tendency to
monopolies in the victualling trades We
think we can discern a tendency to mono-
poly in all trades. The creation of large
establishments, run by wealthy individuals*
either singly or in syndicates, and the ten-
dency of such vast emporiums or establish-
ments to crush out smaller traders, is said to
be noticeable in all great centres of popula-
tion, and may be observed even in Sydney-
The term, “State monopoly,” appears to
us an anomaly. The State represents the
community. A monopoly by the commun-
ity strikes us as a contradiction of terms.
The originality of George does not concern
us. It is the accuracy, not the novelty, of
his theories which is the essential point. If
he borrowed from Mill (whom he contra-
dicts expressly with regard to the Mai.
thusian drift of some of Mile’s theo-
risings) so much the better. Mill is a
notable authority. We cannot quite fol-
low our correspondent in his hints of a
theory relative to heredity m relation to
genius. We cannot comprehend how lust
of gain on the part of parents or progenitors
could be conceived to take the form of
jjhilosophical genius in a descendant, as in
the alleged instance of Shakespeare. How-
ever, there may be suggestions for others
where we fail to perceive them. The letter
is written in a candid and thoughtful vein,
and cannot but be productive of benefit to
other thinkers.
• • •
Our other correspondent also takes up the
cudgels fori Henry George, as against the
Socialist writers. He writes
“ Having read your recent articles on Socialism
Very carefully, and with great pleasure, I still
think that George is right, and that it is only
necessary to make land common property, or con-
fiscate rent, which will have the same effect. I
quite understand that I must not judge Socialism
by the (necessarily short exposition given of it;
but, taking the point given of the spinning-loom,
where one man does the work of ten and the nine
are starved out, I think that this argument only
holds good when we consider the nine unfit for
other employment. Imagine the great field that
would be open to them if they had free access to
land; and, as you say, * cheapness begets demand,’
each machine would require a number of cotton-
growers to supply it witbjmaterial—here would be
work for them at once. I remember some four-
teen years ago—the railway was just fioished to
Goulburn—a carrier said to me, ‘this thing is
played out; the railways are ruining the country.’
I said, ‘No; you will only have to push farther
back, or go at something else;!you are not bound
to be a carrier all yeur life;-you have two hands*
and you are just as well adapted for other occupa-
tions as you are for carrying; work with the rail-
ways, and they will assist you.’ So it is with the nine
men thrown out of employment by the rotten
mill: if land was open to them they could goat
something else. Yes, sir, we need not go beyond
George: he is a wonder. I have every sympathy
with the Socialists. They are working lor the
good of the human race; but I don’t think they
attach sufficient importance to the nationalisation
of land. They go for it, but they go for something
beyond what I think is necessary. George says
‘ that businesses whioh are, in their nature mon-
opolies, are properly part of the functions of the
State, and should be assumed by the State.’ I
dou’t think the State should go further. If land
was open to all, wages would not tend to the star-
vation point. I might be prejudiced—not that I
have any objection or dislike to the Socialists, God
forbid—but I am so taken with George that I
may close my eyes to others just as good and well-
meaning. Most likely lam ignorant on the subject
of Socialism. I need hardly tell you that I have
read ‘ Progress and Poverty ’ and ‘ Social Pro-
blems ’ very carefully, and I found all my own
Ideas explained, and legions of ideas that never
occurred to me put in the most attractive and
forcible form. 1 carry ‘ Progress and Poverty ’
about with me, and whereever I see a thinking
man I give him a copy. I have already bought
fifteen copies, and will cofitinue giving them away
so long as I can afford to buy them or find a man
with brains willing to take a copy. I have given
up subscribing to churches, and will, in future, do
good in this way.”
• • *
We do not think we are called upon to com-
ment at all upon this correspondent’s letter.
As to his modest apprehension that he may
he ignorant of Socialism, we believe it is
justified. There has been hitherto no op-
portunity of learning anything about that
system of politics, and we equally confess
to ignorance. But the system is so impor-
tant, whether it be right or wrong—it is so
evidently destined to influence the imme-
diate future of the nations, and has obtained
so powerful and so wide a hold upon the
convictions of the masses throughout the
whole world—that every sensible man must
recognise the necessity of studying it, and
of acquiring such information regarding it
as shall enable him to form a competent
opinion, and to take his course with respect
to it. In order to form a just opinion, the
study must be seriously undertaken, and in
a fair spirit. That is to say, a man who is
honest to himself will guard against per-
mitting his mind to be biased by prejudices
and preconceptions created by sneers, repre-
sentations, and denunciations vented by par-
tizans evidently full of rancour and hostility.
Sagacious and reasonable men will reserve
themselves until they have had equal oppor-
tunity of hearing both sides. We write for
such men, and it has been with the view of
affording them some glimpse of a side of the
subject which our contemporaries have
sedulously studied to withhold, that we
gave, in a poor enough fashion and quite in-
adequately, a sketchy outline of what we
learned from a rapid perusal of one or two
works in which the English Socialists state
their case. There is, as we remarked at the
time, a V6ry considerable literature dealing
with the subject, which, now that its im-
portance and the real earnestness and
seriousness of its professors have been de-
monstrated to Australian readers, will
doubtless be drawn upon by the thoughtful.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Their Beloved Sovereign,
The strenuous efforts which have been made by
Reuter’s people in London to put the best face
possible upon the attitude of the people of War-
saw, In respect of their visit from the Czar of Russia
have been somewhat interesting. It has been a
struggle against facts. Here are a few consecutive
cablegrams, illustrating the manner in which ac-
tual* occurrences have defied the determination of
the message compilers to make it appear as though
the Czar were a welcome visitor to the city of
Kosciusko, the capital of that unhappy Poland
which has—gagged and throttled though she has
been ever since her violation—never ceased to
throb with hatred of her inhuman ravishers:—
“ St. Petersburgh, Sept. 3.—The Emperor Alex-
ander of Russia left at midnight yesterday for
Warsaw, where preparations have been making
for some time past for his reception.”
Preparations for His Majesty’s reception! What
visions of decorated houses, streets spanned with
arches and blazoned with “Welcomes,” does this
evoke! No hint here of the fact published in a
London paper on July 26th, that—
“ The projected visit of the Czar to the capital of
Poland has been preceded by the discovery of an
extensive plot, in which many high officials are re-
ported to be implicated. There is no evidence
that it was directed against the person of the
Czar, but, as a precautionary measure, thirteen
thousand picked troops are to he stationed in War-
saw durivg his stay there. The number of persons
said to have been arrested shows the plot to have
been widespread. The opportunitv it affords to
the reactionary party, however, has been taken
advantage of, and a stateof siege, which, consider-
ing the normal condition of Russian administra-
tions, appears somewhat superfluous, has been
proclaimed."
On September 6th, however, a hint of the character
of the prepar itions is allowed to reach us. Thus—
“ Warsaw, September's.—Very rigorous precau-
tions are being taken by the authorities here to
ensure the safety of the Czar, who is now cn route
from at. Petersburg.”
This applies to the journey, however. The loving
Muscovites may desire to kill their benefactor—
their saviour, who sends so many of them to
Siberia and to rot in dungeons—but the gratefuj
Poles will hail him in their capital. And so it ap-
pears:—
" Warsaw, September B.—The Czar of Russia
was warmly received by the populace when pass-
ing through the streets of the city to-day on his
way from the railway station.”
Warmly received!] By the populace! No word of
tho 13,000 picked troops. This tallies with the en-
thusiastic cheers of the immense crowd which
lined the streets at Moscow when His Majesty was
proceeding to the Kremlin for coronation. It
transpired later that the immense crowd which
cheered on that occasion was constituted chiefly
of 40,000 picked troops in plain clothes, supple-
mented by vast numbers of police and spies from
every part of the empire, while all the windows
and houses which commanded a view of the pro-
cession were similarly occupied, and the devoted
populace was for the most part dragooned out of
sight and hearing. But there was nothing of this
kind at Warsaw. How could there be among
Poles, who had enjoyed so much the beneficence
of the Romanoffs? Naturally this follows:
“ Warsaw, September 9 —The Czar and Czarina
of Russia drove to-day in an open carriage and
without escort through the princ'pal streets of
Warsaw, lheir Majesties were everywhere well
received.”
But then the irresistible truth breaks through.
The preparatory arrests, the 13,000 picked troops
and the state of siege, had not been adequate to
work up the popular enthusiasm to the high level
of being content to let matters slide without risk-
ing their lives in order to deprive their beloved
sovereign of his. Bursting through all the huir.
bug of flunkeyish news-purveyors, came the ugly
fact thus:—
“ London, September 11.—About lOOOpersons have
been arrested by the authorities in Warsaw on
suspicion of having been concerned in plots against
the life of the Czar of Russia, who is now on a visit
to that city.”
This throws a fresh light on the warm reception
accorded, if. the cablegram of September Bth be
credited, to His Majesty. It seems unlikely that
the Czar of Russia, tyrant, oppressor, and mur-
derer of so many of his subjects, will ever in his
life be accorded by those subjects any warm recep-
tion, except it is being one day received by them
with a brisk fire—of musketry.
Tawhiao and Victoria.
Kino Tawhiao has not yet seer the Queen. We
don’t suppose he is very likely to. He called at
AVindsor Castle a little while ago, while the Queen
was there, but she didn’t send for him, as she j
might easily have done. Tawhiao himself isn’t a
warrior, but he is the Royal representative of a
race of men ten thousand times more noble than
the House of Hanover. The poor devil of a KiDg,
with Te Wheoro and a few others, wandered
round the castle grounds for an hour or two, and
when he departed he left for Her Majesty a pre-
sent—a Maori mat. It didn’t strike his unsophis-
ticated intellect that the Queen of England had
already wiped her feet on, and used as a mat, the
brave and splendid race of men which is now
dwindling away in the beautiful land of the
moa. Tawhiao went to Woolwich arsenal, where
he was shown a lot of things and was asked to fire
the machine gun. Did he, we wonder, think sadly
of the times when “glorious victories” were
gained by British soldiers, armed with all the ap-
pliances of modern warfare, over Maories who
fought for their homes and wives and children
with arms taken from the British dead—when the
resolute Maori, crouched in the rifle-pit, or stood
behind the woodwork of the pah, ramming into
his old fusil pebbles from the river-beds because
he had no lead for bullets, or sticking on to a rifle-
nipple a wax-match-head taken from the poc-
kets and a brass-eylet cut from the boots of a
deceased Tommy Atkins to serve as a percus-
sion-cap? Cetewayo was “received kindly” in
England, so people think. The Queen conde-
scended to see him; but, in reality, the Zulu chief-
tain who had annihilated a regiment at Isandl-
wahna served merely as one of the objects of a
petty and hollow modern “ triumph,” after the
fashion of the Roman (Lesars. Tawhiao, the
representative of a nation of Ard-el-Kadehs, has
been treated meinly in England by the ignoble
officials of a pettifogging court. No wonder that
a French writer has pointed scornfully, not at the
lion-hearted John Bull who thrashed his legions
out of the Peninsula and fought by their side
against the Russians, but at the spurious John
Bull, the Exeter-Hall-miesionary-trader John
Bum,, who “caused the Imperial eagle to perish
in the cage at Bt. Helena, by pulling out its
feathers, one by one, through the bars; and
who, after Sebastopol, stirred up the Druses
against the Syrian Christians.” Her Gracious
Majesty distributes “honours” pretty freely
amongst all sorts of lickspittles and toadies, in-
cluding a big crop from the Australasias. She
might have shown a little attention to the King
and ambassador of the Maori race. And if she
doesn’t know or remember who and what the
Maories are, and have been, it is a groat pity that
the well-greased flunkey s,| who surround her have
either been equally ignorant or have been allowed
by the nation to spit on the man, now monarch
but in name of tho warriors who filled the rifle-
pits at Rangarirl.
Thb Rates of Subbckjpi'iojn w> Thb Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 12s. od.;
quarter, 6s. Bd.—ln advance.
Thb Advertising Ratbs are ss. per Inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. Bd. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inoh.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 conseoutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
So Sir ’Enry’s back again. He didn’t get
the Governorship of New Guinea-the Jarvis Bay
coal spee. “wasn’t good enough” —and John
Brown’s successor had been appointed.
Bishop Moorhouse has recently been giv-
ing it hot to the rabbis of old time, the while com-
placently ignoring the fact that there is no whit
ot essential difference betwixt the Rabb. of old
time and the Right Reverend Father in God of
this. The hierarchs of both periods are in the same
boat, as we venture to make apparent by the sub-
joined statement in tabular form:—
Jewish Hierarchs taught I
„ , 4 nd JeBus of Nazareth
Christian Hierarchs still taught:
teach:
The authority of a set of | The Authority ot Con-
men. I science.
Religion a question of I Religion, a vital product
Theology and Ritual. I of the heart, regulat-
Salvation by Faith in the | ing the conduct of
blood of Abraham (or I man to man.
n I A Tree is judged by its
Childish subtleties of in- i fruits,
terpretation and idle Yea to mean Yea, and
straw-splitting. | Nay, Nay.
Ecclesiastic pretensions I Sufficient for the day is
to know the Unknow- | the evil thereof,
able. |
Social Caste. | Common brothorhoood.
A dream anout an im- I The Kingdom of God on
possible future. | earth now.
The termination ot Mr. Henry George’s
mission in Great Britain, and its result in a finan-
cial deficit after expenses had been paid, evoked a
long series of sneers and scoffs from the non-
progressive Press-that is to say, all the leading
dailies. It was natural that the organs of wealth
should regard that as a failure which had not been
productive of money profit. According to theiir
system of thought, everything is measurable by
money value. Barnum would be a distinguished
success and worthy of proportionate respect,
were he to run his exhibition throughout
England and nett £50,000. Adelina Patti can
earn £5OO a night. Henry George had a deficit
of a couple of hundred pounds. It was not con-
sidered, of course, that Henry George didn't
reckon on making money, and that, as his lectures
could only please, as a rule, the people who have
not sovereigns to spend for seats in the stalls or
lump sums of £5OO to pay for a box for the season
a monetary success on his part would only
have indicated one of two thiugs, viz., either
that he had such poor reasoning that the proper-
tied classes had paid to attend and laugh at him, or
that he had turned traitor to himself and lectured
so as to suit their pleasure. However, the organs
of property sneered and flung the word failure
after him, because, although every lecture he gave
had been attended by a thronged audience, and
had elicited the most tremendous applause, no
considerable number of persons of fashion, wealth,
or social standing had deigned to take notice of
him, except to denounce him. But the satisfaction
ot' sneering wbhout areal triumph is wearing out
and even the bitterest of George’s critics are com-
mencing to whimper their real opinions. Thus
for example, we find the Hon. George C. Bro-
derick, in the course of an artiole on Democracy
and Socialism—a comfortable article, which aims
at showing that Democrats will not be so
very cruel as to progress to Socialism con-
fesses that “it would be a grave error to mea-
sure the advance of Socialistic opinion in Eng-
land by the feebleness of its public demon-
strations. If English working men have only
coquetted with the International, and other revo-
lutionary leagues which have risen from its ashes,
it is to b 8 feared that hast numbers of them have
lent a ready ear to Mr. Henry George's project for I
confiscating the soil of the country without com-
pensation.” i


Mnw this was something like a revival i
... . .
meeting, and it eventuated way over at the\ery
appropriately-named Hot Springs, Arkansas. It
onnears that Mr. Leon Dishowan and Pete Lewis
had a little misunderstanding over the right
Maimed by both to escort Amy Pidcock, the minis-
? nr 's daughter, home after churoh. Pete was the
man who first selected the gentle Amy after
survey, and the loving pair joggled along smooth
enough until Leon burst upon the Springs in all
the gorgeous refulgence of a wbite-frilled shirt,
diamond studs, and patent-leather boots. While
old Pidco.-k was knocking the stuffing out of
f Bn route. Passengers, with
flfne tickets, especially, enthj*.
siastie over scenery. y.
Hasty sketch of a view i
keen through the interstices I
between enthusiastic passen- r
gers. ,
Another sketch from car window. It would appear that
the animals along the line of the new extension have not yet
quite become accustomed to it.
At Mount Victoria,, the train stopped for refresh-
ments. Amid the "surging, masticating throng, the
tall form of a promising young M.P., in the “ Spring-
time of his career,” was seen pensively gnawing a
bone. At a hasty glance, it was difficult to distinguish
which was the bone. , / // / / /
At Mount Victoria,, the train stopped for refresh-
ments. Amid the "surging, masticating throng, the
tall form of a promising young M.P., in the “ Spring-
time of his career,” was seen pensively gnawing a
bone. At a hasty glance, it was difficult to distinguish
which waa the bone. , / / / , / /
Y
When the Bydney special train arrived at Mudgee,
on Tuesday night, the enthusiasm of the inhabitants
knew no bounds.
i Mudgee by day. It will be remembered that
Goldsmith oncereferred to Mudgee as the "fairest city of
jthe plain.”
Our representative, anticipating a crush, starts
in quest of an hotel. He notes, en passant, that'
Mudgee, somehow, seems to be most felicitously
named.
The banquet in the
evening was a great suo-
leess (the band which had
been engaged failing to
I put in an appearance).
The Premier, the Minis-
'try, and many others, in-
cluding Mudgee, Taylor,
made addresses, in which
all agreed that Mudgee » •
had a groat future in store for it; that its youngest Mem-
ber of Parliament was in the spring-time of his career,
and there was-no reason why ho should not continue to be
so indefinitely if he “ took care of himself."
First impressions of 31 udgee, Our Artist in
too great a hurry to find hotel, to get an exact
•ketch. Besides, it was quite dark.
Our 'Artist is somewhat
pointed to find oommodious quar-**
tors, as be had set his heart upon
making a funny picture of mm*
self going to roost in the hen*
house. However, it is always best
to adhere to facts.. Mr. Belcher,
the landlord, treated our repre*
seutativc like his own son, even to
the extent of h mling him out of
• bed by the heels to catch an early
Great Doings at Mudgee.
“MUDGRE DO ABOUT NOTHING ."-Shakespere
Satan's skin, a few Sundays back, Pete walked
quietly into Amy's pew, whereupon Leon, who
was there already, pulled out his shooting-iron and
opened tire, Pete, upon his part, promptly return-
ing the rather sultry compliment. Pretty soon the
bulk of the congregation was actively engaged in
dispersing through the doors and windows and fat
Deacon Skegsby, who was jammed tight in a stained
glass fanlight near the choir, received a deadly
wound in his back stomach from the “ wepun” of
Mr. Peter Lewis. When the smoke c eared,
preacher Pidcock came down from the pulpit and
observed that ns he was the father of Amy i was
bis bounden duty to see the boys ‘ fit ” fair.
Much to the good old silver-haired man's disgust,
however, it was pointed out that the ammunition
was all used up, and it was then arranged that the
rivals should plug each other, A la slogger Sullivan,
in the adjoining churchyard, while the parson sent
home for more powder and bullets. Amy how-
ever, in a moment s private confab with Leon,
quietly, but lirmly, placed a derringer in his boot-
moment later, Mr. Lewis was stretched on
the floor, dead, while the live pair of lovers were
hugging each other in the sanctuary, and old
Uarson F 1 * 5 , 00 ?* »T as hmiling Deacon Skegsby out
of the fanlight by the sag of his breeches, and
bitterly lamenting the loss of a real good twenty
minutes duelling. Little pleasantries like this
tend to make the rather too solemn Wesleyan ser-
vice nice and cheerful.
We always sympathise with the man
whom destiny obliges to live and work among un-
congenial surroundings; and if ever an occasion
comes round in which fortune changes for the
better, we instinctively extend our hand in con-
gratulation. Latterly, things have been in a very
glum way with the great Graham Berry. To be
blamed by one’s friends pulls a man down consider-
ably, but to be praised by one’s enemies is still
more belittling. And, to suffer in that way day
after day, puts water in the corner of the eye and
makes the chin hang. When, therefore, two or
three parsons brought a lot ot ladles up to Gra-
ham’s office, the other day, for a little talk, we put
on a collar and a tommy and went up, too. We
didn’t know at the time what the little talk was to
be about, but, as there were ladies in the question,
and, as a matter of course, parsons, we calculated
on trading off a bit of our standing stock of con-
gratulation. When we went in, we saw that they
were all seated, and that the object of our worship
was stealthily casting winks about the room. We
knew it was at the maps on the walls he was cast-
ing them, and we rejoiced at the return of gleefill
happiness to the worn features. “We intend,”
said the Rev. D. J. Hamer, “ with the help of God,
and you, sir, to put down seduction.” There was
a pause for a few minutes, while the Chief Secre-
tary again winked at the maps on the wall. “ We
intend,” said the Rev. Dr. Bromby, “that, with
your help, sir, and God’s, we shall put down seduc-
tion.” You would fancy the Chief Secretary’s
eyes were worked by a galvanic battery at his
poll. After a great deal of winking this time, he
said, addressing himself to the ladies, “ Are there—
ah—many women getting them—ah—at the present
time?” The ladies were puzzled, owing to the
tense in which the question was shaped, but the
Rev. Hamer helped them out of the difficulty by
stating that the question might be answered by
giving the present record of the Maternity Hospital.
Then one of the ladies said: “ We have 600 patients
at present enrolled, and more than 400 of them are
unmarried.” There was then an interval of three
minutes for promiscuous winking. The great
Graham behaved most creditably. For the first
thirty seconds Dr. Bromby did the cutting out,
but he fell behind about there, and the Rev.
Hamer made the running. When half through, It
was neck and neck between him and Graham; but
the superior stamina of the old one told, and he
lived down his plucky rival, having it all to him-
self at the finish. Time being up, Graham asked
the ladies: “Is one sex more to blame than thb
other ? Don’t you think there’s lewdness on both
sides ? This villanous question “bopped” the ladies.
One of them, however got up and very honestly
said, ‘Females call it deceit on the part 01 the
men, but we don’t know what the males call it.”
The Rev. Hamer was going to give an explanation
here, but the Rev. Dr.. Bromby stopped him, inti-
mating that he could do it better; and then Solici-
tor Maddock made a start to go one higher yet,
when the Chief Secretary, winking all round the
room, said he knew more clearly than any of them
what males called it, and the quicker they all went
home the better. Then the parsons drew the
ladies away amid a Kentish Are of winks, at the
conclusion of which we offered our congratula-
tions, and, returning home, laid by our collar and
tommy for the next great occasion.!


Personal Items
The local Upjohn of Victoria (Coburg
ward) is getting unpopular with the authorities,
just as we were beginning to like him. The Go-
vernment don’t complain so much of the lengthy
drop he gives his subjects, as of the lengthy drops
he gives himself.
Under Naquet’s new Act, in Paris, Pilti is
going straight for a divorce. The partnership of
Patti and Caux may, therefore, be said to be dis-
solved in favour of Nicolini, who, you may take
your affidavit, “will seek a continuance of those
favours so kindly granted to his predecessor.”
General Grant has been granted the rank
and full pay of a General in the army. How
about Captain Simmons—we mean Symons—of the
Wolverene? How many millions a year is he to
get? This gorgeous hero deserves well of his
country. He hasn’t fought for us, because he has
not had the opportunity; but it is generally un-
derstood he is boiling over with valour. Captain
believe, will die one day after a des-
perate struggle—in a restaurant.
England’s gratitude well to the fore again.
Shilrey Holmes, an old soldier, was lately brought
before a London court, and charged with derange-
ment of mind, brought on by neglect and want of
food. Holmes was one of the Light Brigade, who
made the (famous Balaklava charge, and this pro-
bably induced the Bench to take a lenient view of
his extremely heinous offence. He was accord-
ingly sent up for life- to the workhouse. This is
the last charge against the Light Brigade.
Viscount Castlerosse, son of the Earl of
Ivenmarc, and aide-de-camp to the Governor of
Victoria, is a great draw in Melbourne. It is said,
with truth, doubtless, that he is the only aide-de-
camp who for years has not worn four-penny
socks. Lord Kenmare, his father, is not a rich
man. But, still, he has sulHcient conscience to
allow “Lisle-threads” to his son and heir. We
commend this example to his Excellency who has
so benefltted the State by the cultivation of fowls.
The champion “strong man” of the day
evidently hangs out at Mackay (Q.) just at present,
for the Maryhorough Chronicle says “ Michael
Ready, the celebrated ex-J.P., of Mackay, immor-
talised by Figaro, broke a fellow alderman’s head
with a water-monkey, last week.” Broke what?
Why, Samson, armed with the jaw-bone of his
favourite ass, couldn’t do that. The only way
Michael could crumple up his man would be to
force tho contents of the water-bottle down his
throat.
There’s always something appalling about
a Judge’s witticism, partly on account of the
utterer. but chiefly on account of the joke, per sc.
Judge Higinbotham threw off a brilliant “flash,”
the other day. at the Melbourne Supreme Court,
where the custodian of a pound sought the law’s
permission to retain a certain number of sove-
reigns in his own safe possession. This was Higin-
botham's “flash”: “Ah. he’s a pound keeper."
in the good old days a man would, for less than
that, have been grilled at the stake—like a steak.
I He's at it now.—Ed. B.j
The Queen looks sharply after the “tin-
pinnies.” It is well known what the Queen’s
Bouuty to mothers of three children at a birth
means. Will it be believed that to a woman who
recently gave birth to three twins, or rather trip-
lets, a reduction of one pound was made from the
sum of three pounds usually sent, because one of
the children had since died ? The custom itself is
a ridiculous one, considering that the groat ques-
tion of the day is the prevention of overpopula-
tion; but while it is kept up, the Royal, Bounty
should at least he distributed Royally.
Even apart from li,er future position ns
Queen of the Netherlands, the little Princess
Wilhelmjne of Orange will bo the richest woman
fn Europe. She inherits the wh.olo fortune of
her hajf-brother, the late Prince of Orange,
amounting altogether to nearly £800,000; and sho
ft, of course, heir to the yast private possessions
pf hpr father, the present King of thd'Wether-
Ifinds. We suppose that she’ll, be married one day
to somp Serene German-" sausage-wolfer,” and
that, when the sons of thp Prince of Wales marry,
they’ll And wives among the destitute Teutonic
nobility.
David Berry, of Shoalhgven, has presented,
to,the Wesleyan Board of Mission his senooner the
Mpoeeyap, to take the place of the J.ohn Hunt,
lopt by shjpwrepk. In acknowledging the gift,
General-Secretary Kelynack observes : “ Now,'
through i the gpoil providence, of God, and your libe-
rality, we are placed,” etc.; but, oddly enough,
w,hen referring to the financial loss and serioua
inconvenience occasioned by the wreck; of the
John Hunt, says nothing of the good providence
of God having been evidenced therein; and yet the
one circumstance was every whit as providential
as the other—no more, no less.
It is war to the knife between the news-,
paper men of the Norfhern Territory and Sti-
pendiary Pater of that ilk. The Northern Aus-
tralian does “not blush to call Mr. Pater, in the
full meaning of the word, a liar.” Think of thatl
This unblushing statement iain reply to an insinu-
ation by Pater that the police had bribed the local
repo.ters into their service, and that the reporters
had accepted the bribe. Until this little trouble is
composed, we should strongly recommend our
Northern brethren not to get “tight, ’ as a re-
porter in bonds before Pater would stand a good
show of being sent up for the term of his natural
life.
A noted English Judge, long lboked upon
as an exemplary Christian, Sir Watkin Williams,
lately died in a house of ill-fame. His “ well-
connected ” frionds made fearful efforts to have
the affair hushed up. Hut the coroner (Mr.
Browne, of Nottingham) pluckily refused to notice
a deliberate attempt to “square” him from a
very high quarter, and replied that he would
make just the same enquiry in the case of tho
highest as he would in that of the lowest person
in his jurisdiction. There have been pitiable
moanings andgroanings among the London Judges
over the scandal caused by thoir learned and lasci-
vious brother.
Miss Hurst, “ the wonderful strong Yankee
woman,” who has been astounding New York by
her lifting and holding feats (performed appar-
ently as much by some kind of occult force as by
muscular strength), is described as “a big girl,
weighing about one hundred and fifty pounds.
She would weigh more if she were hard, but her
flesh is soft and flabby. She has large white hands,
with very long fingers. Her face is fluffy, the
noso well-shaped, the mouth full, and the eyes
small.” This is not very pleasant, but it is still
more disappointing to be toldjthat she looks, as if
she were afflicted with fatty degeneration of the
ankles and feet.
Six new peers are said to be about to be
created. The names given are those of Sir T.
Brassey, Sir Thomas M’Clure, Sir Edward Cole-
bronke, Mr. Samuel Morley, Sir Arthur Hayter,
and (but this is very doubtful) Mr. W. H. Glad-
stone, the Premier’s eldest son. Mr. Gladstone is
said to be waiting for a favourable opportunity in
nrder to place these names among his supporters
in the Upper House; and he may even create a
larger batch. We are sorry not to see Sir Salmon I
Wilson’s name in the list. Salmon is no doubt
waiting till Beaconsfleld gets into office again. Of
course, Btaeonsflela’s dead, but you never can tell
what may turn up.
” When Gerald Massey told his audience in
the Athenreum, Melbourne, that Shakespeare’s j
Contemporaries had no conception of his greatness,
Mortimer Franklyn I rubbed his chin and gave
both his ears to the genial lecturer. The reason-
ha! the reason—was the point the lecturer, stand-
ing on one leg, was driving his intellectual cork-
screw into. The reason why his contemporaries
failed to notice the Poet’s greatness was, accord-
ing to Mr. Massey, because Shakespeare was so
intensely human, modest, and unpretending.
Then Mortimer took back his ears, and mused:
“As it was in those days, so it is in these. Look at
me. Like cause, like effect! ”
Peterson, a Salvationist, has been fined .Is.
in Albury. He tried to sell a War Cry to Mrs.
Toast, and she told him to clear. Pete then told
her she was going to hell, and knelt down to pray
for her.—
Said Pete, “ Dear Mrs. Toast, I pray
A War Cry you will buy,
Or else I fear that you will toast
In hell when you may die.”
The Magistrate, with eye severe,
That made poor Peter sob.
Said, “ Pete, my boy, pray cheaper prayers,
This costs you just five bob.”
Disputes between one Ministerial Depart-
ment and another are, however deplorable, at
least intelligible, which is more than can be said
of ructions between branches of the same Depart-
ment. When Hansard Robinson, of the Colonial
Secretary’s boys, goes for Printer Richards, of the
Treasurer’s crowd, or vice versa, and each is backed
by his own boss, there is, of course, a difficulty in
composing the struggle; but when Whitton, of
the Works, goes for Goodehap of the same, or
Goodchap goes for Bennett, also of the identical
Department, and their boss don’t strike a peace
betwixt them sharp, it seems to us that he, the
said boss, is a weak, backboneless jellyfish, unfit
for his place.
Pop it on, gentlemen. One down; who
makes another ? Last week we had the felicity of
chronicling the death of the 749th hero who figured
in the Charge of the Six Hundred, and to-day we
learn with unspeakable joy that the 750th veteran
has turned up his toes, and is now employing his
leisure moments acting as a daisy-fertilizer in the
bone-yard of Christchurch (New Zealand). His
name was Samuel Wilson, and ho bore the rank of
sergeant-major in the Bth Hussars; but of late was
employed in the less exciting, but far more useful,
occupation of sharpening tools in the Christchurch
railway workshops. Active preparations are now
beiDg made for the interment of the 751st member
of the same immortal corps.
IS IT COMING TO THIS?
IT IS A STRANGE AND DEPLORABLE FACT THAT JUVENILE DRUNKENNESS AP-
PEARS TO BE ON THE INCREASE YESTERDAY, AT THE WATER POLICE COURT,
SEVERAL BOYS WERE CONVICTED AND FINED FOR THIS OFFENCE WHO SHOULD
HARDLY YET HAVE BEEN ALLOWED TO LEAVE SCHOOL, AS MR. LEOPOLD YATES,
S.M., REMARKED WHEN SENTENCING THEM.
Mr. Kingston, the Adelaide barrister, who
went out on the shoot one afternoon and succeeded
in “potting” a cabman, has been found guilty,
but was recommended to mercy “on account of
previous good character.” And now you'll imagine,
possibly, that Mr. K. is at present languishing
within the four gloomy walls of a dungeon cell.
Happily, you are wrong. The larky lawyer has
been ordered to come up for sentence when called
upon, and breathes the air of freedom in the
meantime. Long may he continue to inhale
liberty’s oxygen. A bad precedent will be estab-
lished if this gentleman gets into trouble through
winging a paltry cabman. Why, next we shall
be having a fuss made if a man strangles a parson.
Such maudlin sentimentality ought not to be en-
couraged.
Valentine Baker’s social rehabilitation is
now, thanks to the Prince of Wales, complete, and
the little incidents of a few years ago—the alleged
assault on a young lady in a railway carriage, and
the subsequent imprisonment—are now a mere
matter of history. In England, most people, it is
said, are not sorry to find that Baker, who as,
perhaps, the best British cavalry officer, is missed
from the army, has, in his Hater days, obtained
pardon for his indiscretion; but why he should
not be treated with at least as much consideration
as the scores of publicly-connected adulterers and
adulteresses and the long list of titled blackguards
who are now basking in the bosom of the “ hupper
suckles,” it is hard to say. In the official list of the
guests invited to Marlborough House party,
Baker’s name appeared among the English officers
as “General Baker.”
At Herberton, Rheuben H. Russell, car-
penter, committed suicide by faking a dose of car-
Dolic acid on Friday morning.—
“ Oh a pistol or a knife, for I’m weary of my life,”
Sang Tom Hood, “ amid the strife
Of the world;
I don’t see what there is in it,
So I’ll shoot myself this minute;
By a bullet, out of misery I’ll be hurled.”
Rheuben Russell said: “The tussle
Of this life, and all the bustle
Glue the shavings of disgust around my heart;”
So he took it cool and placid,
And tossed off carbolic acid,
And drove off to where it’s quiet in an under-
taker’s cart.
This is the nice, delicate, impersonal way
in which they doit in America:— Mrs. Florence
designs nearly every one of her own d resses.
People always think she paints, but this is not so,
except to use white, which is necessary on the
stage. Her lips are naturally scarlet, and her
cheeks a pretty colour. She is of a beautiful
figure, too, and isn’t sfhe just the kindest soull
Now, Genevieve Ward is just the opposite in most
essentials. She cares for nobody nor nothing but
herself. She prides herself upon the fact that she
wears no corsets, but she wears a broad ‘ bracing
board,’ to keep her waist down, and that is just as
sinful, if sin it is. She is not an angel in temper,
but she can carve in marble, and, while she dresses
handsomely, she tosses her clothes around the
room with a sublime disregard of cost, to say
nothing of neatness, and while she is called cold
and heartless she is really womanly, and full of
sympathy and charity.”
An incident. The Cottiers were doing their
weekly boom up Parramatta way the other night,
and Miss Alice Johns had wrestled with “Cornin’
through the Rye ” in a style which took so well
that a gorgeous-looking bouquet came down on the
stage with a force of something like 7501 b. to the
square inch. The lady smiled sweetly all round,
bobbed over to the floral tribute, and found it was
a ninepenny bunch of carrots. Just then, her
gratitude seemed to spring a leak, and hastily dart-
ing off the stage she made way for Mr. Cottier,
who advanced, carrots in hand, R.U.E., and ob-
served, “The donor should have thrown with
these carrots the sheep’s head he carries about with
him, and then the company would have been able
to enloy a pot of soup.” Yells of applause greeted
this neat little speecn, and for a time the shouts of
“soup wan—sheep’s ’ed an’ carrots two,” brought
up tender reminiscences of the “ Flying Scud ”
during the palmy days of Zeplin.
John Arthur is the name of a highly
original sort of party who is at present under
committal at the coming Maryborough assizes for
tickling a kanaka’s vitals with a dose of slugs and
buckshot, and the following tale whioh is told of
him clearly proves his nerves are made out of
something stiller than Berlin wool or boiled
macaroni. One day, whilst busy shelling corn, he
happened to get a oit of husk in his eye, and there-
upon asked the next man to him to haul it out.
The next man said he couldn’t well do it, as he
had no pocket handkerchief. “ Hankercher be
jammed, ’ roared John; “ what the blamiDg Hazes
d’yer want a hankercher for ? Tek it out with the
pint o’ yer knife, man. Why, when I was in Cali-
forny mining, chaps ofen got bits o’ stuff plugged
inter their eyes, an’ we alwiz took it out wid th’
pint uv our picks. Now, thin, let us see how y’d
shape as a gouger.” It is to be devoutly hoped
that a nigger, here or there, will never be allowed
to stand in the way of the liberty of such a man of
blood and iron as old Jack Arthur is.
“ The Claimant,” when interviewed on July
25, for the last time prior to his release, which
takes place on October 24, said that when he gets
out he will at once appeal to the public for assist-
ance. Ho expressed astonishment that the N.S.W.
law officers should have opposed the application
made in regard to the lunatic Crosswell, when it
was backed up by the so-called Cresswell’s brother
Edmund, and Charles Orton. We further read: -
“ The Claimant said he was told that on his release
proceedings would be taken against several dis-
tinguished persons, and the whole case would be
laid before the electors of Great Britain. He was
also informed that 11 members of Parliament had
sent a memorial to the Home Secretary, asking
that Arthur Orton alias Cresswell might be
brought over to England at the national expense.
Fears were entertained that the release of the
alleged lunatic was being purposely delayed until
after the Claimant’s liberation, and it was also
stated that 11,000 electors of Chelsea had signed a
memorial on behalf of the Claimant, it being also
pointed out that this was a sufficient number to
turn the election.” Booh!
Prince Napoleon (Plon-Plon) appears to
have seen his best day—not that that was ever very
brilliant. The brawling Bonaparte's one strength
lay in his striking resemblance to the illustrious
founder of the dynasty, but even that has been
considerably discounted by a wen growing from
one of his eyes. So long as he could pose in public
as a veritable fac simile of the “ little corporal,”
Plon-Plon was regarded with a sort of sentimental
reverence by a certain small section of 1m perialista,
and stood a thousand to one chance of being
pitched on the throne of France by a wave of
national caprice. But the wen has settled his last
hope; and as we now read that “the Prince takes
drives in a closed carriage, and avoids public
thoroughfares,” it’s pretty certain that this miser-
able retiex of the bold Corsican will soon sink into
a well-merited obscurity. Plon-Plon used to be
mighty proud of the “ marvellous resemblance.”
and never tired of referring to the un-Napoleonic
physiognomy of the late Emperor. Most people
are famdiar with the capital retort made by the
latter to his cousin's scornful remark, " You have
nothing of the first Napoleon about you.” “Oh,
yes, I have,” said he; “I have his relatives about
me.”
“Why, Lord bless your soul,” said Mr.
Bucket to the “ man from Shropshire, ’ who was
dying in Mr. George’s shooting gallery, “ what
times we have had together! Haven’t I seen you
in the Fleet over and over again for contempt?
Haven’t I come into Court, twen-ty afternoons
for no other purpose than to see you pin the Chan-
cellor like a bull-dog ?" Of late years, Dickens’s
“man from Shropshire’’ lived again in the person
of that poor old crank, J. B. Slack, who held »
little property in South Melbourne, and who turned
up regularly every Chancery Court day over there
and nearly drove Judges and jurors mad by intro-
ducing his grievance, and demanding instant
justice. He was his own lawyer, and having
pleaded his cause and covered everybody with
mud, he would be gently removed from the Court
only to return to the charge with redoubled vigour
when the term came round once more. He used
to hang out in an old rookery at the corner of
Clarendon and Market streets, and on Thursday
last his|bedroom door was burst in, and be wgj
found dead in his bod with his throat eut from ear
to ear, and in bis left hand, which was stiff and
erect, was the fatal razor with which the deed was
done. Slack has taken his case to a higher Court.
How Tom is to get out of this we don’t
know. We haven’t lived in Burrowa, and we
positively have to turn up the last corner of the
paper to find out that J. Stevenson is the printer
and publisher of the Times there. We're In a row
with the Damooaroo Times, for interfering about
things; and, therefore, we don't understand, and
feel timid. Well, this is what you’ve got to ex-
plain, Tom, to Mr. Stevenson’s subscribers We’ii
cut hjm down short. Date August 16. “ The free
selectors of the Burrowa district had much to
hope for at the time of seleeting a representative
in the person of Mr. T. M. Slattery. That gentle-
man was, at the time of his first election for the
Burrowa district, wholly in favour of the free
selectors. Burrowa was then represented as be-
nighted, neglected, and scarcely known. The re-
generator of her interests was embodied in the
person of Mr. Slattery. ‘He would like to see
every free selector coming home to his wife and
family with the deeds of his property under his
arm.’ ‘He would relieve selectors of paying in-
terest on their selections, and place them on the
lands of the colony without encumbrance.’ ” And
Mr. Stevenson’s man winds up concerning men of
your sort: “Recreant to every promise formerly
made, they cannot be trusted in the future.”
What are you going to do ?
Nearly the k whole of the. Legislature are
giving Hanlan a picnic. This reminds us of the
gorgeous show of our rulers there was at Kendall’s
funeral. But, we suppose, as a live ,soi* a
living sculler better than a great dead bard. We
don’t ask George Merriman, Esq., M.L.A.; or Dan
O’Connor, Esq., M.L.A.; or H. M'Quade, Esq.,
M.L. a., or any of a dozen more of these represen-
tative geniuses to give Henry Kendall a picnic,
because the offer might prove inconvenient to tue
sweetest singer the antipodes ever heard, at the
present juncture; but at least someone, all, or any
of this glittering phaniax of rulers might, at Ban-
ian s picnic, give enough out of their winnings at
tambaroora or chuck-halfpenny to pay a man
to sweep the sandwich-papers and nutshells from
off the dead bard’s grave. Let us suggest, for
instance, that H. M’Quade, Esq., M.L.A., who
entertains at the Windsor .Royal so royally, might
with advantage withhold (say) the amount it cost
him to load up one legislative numbskull monthly,
and charter a man to, at least, substitute gerani-
ums even of the commonest class for the man-
gle-wurzels which luxuriate there exceedingly-
having been sown about poor Harry’s grave by
well-meaning but misguided members of this staff,
under the impression that they were putting down
the "choicest mignonette. Dan O’Connor should
remember, anyhow, mat ipoor Henry has hardly
now anything but bis Shroud to console him.
Like the “Pinafore” crew, poor Fidding-
ton “ meant well ” when the Land Act trouble was
before the Legislative Council a few nights ago;
but, unfortunately, he “ didn’t know,” and, there-
fore, when he declared that the desire for the ac-
quisition of land and the secure possession of free-
holds was one of the distinguishing marks of a
civilised people, Mr. Dailey saw he had the mis-
guided senator over the hole, and he at once pre-
pared to pot him. “Asa matter of fact,” replied
the sarcastic little Attorney-General, “the very
opposite is the faot. Before New Zealand (to
which the hon. member has just referred) was oc-
cupied by civilised people, it was the home of in-
telligent savages, who had a high appreciation of
the value of landed property, and who had as
great a care for their title as the descendants of
Norman barons in these days of advanced civilisa-
tion. Indeed, it is alleged that the present Maori
sovereign, King Tawhiao, has had, for purposes of
greater security, his muniments of title, not sub-
ject to question or destruction, tatooed upon cer-
tain portions of his body, to which it might not
be, perhaps, proper in this Chamber more defi-
nitely to allude.” This was very neat indeed on
the part of Mr. Dailey, and very prudent on the
part of old man Tawhiao: but, at the same time,
we sincerely trust we will never be called upon to
act as a juror on a case in which the Maori
monarch is called upon to produce the muniments
in question.
There was a mysterious coincidence in the
circumstance of Professor Mosley coming to the
conclusion from the fact of the lower Australian
mammals being oviparous that man is descended
from a reptilian form of life contemporaneously
with Prolessor Parkes coming to the conclusion
from the fact of the lower Australian electors
being ovipero'.ie (from the Parkes standpoint) that
the Stuart Administration was generated by the
action of the crimps, the blacklegs, and the thieves.
It is strange, though, that Parkes has so recently
come to his conclusion. Mosley couldn’t well have
come to his before, since he only learnt about the
oviparousness of the mammals a few days ago;
whereas Sirenry has known about the non-pro-
Parkousness of the electors this year and a-half or
more. We really think he hardly acted square to
the Scotchmen whom he touched for that million
in keeping so dark about those crimps, thieves,
and blacklegs, while he was “ doing ” North Bri-
tain. And not only was there a suppressio veri on
his part while explaining matters to Caledonia, but
a suggestio falsi, since he certainly spoke highly of
Australian manhood suffrage—pointed to himself
as the tip-top development of tne working of our
free institutions—and (as regards crimps, black-
legs, and thieves) he never once referred to Mil-
burn Creek or Darling Harbour compensations, to
Randwick luncheons or tram-tickets, to erysipela-
tous selections, to bank dummying, or to Contrac-
tor-Ministers.
The law students of the Melbourne Uni-
versity have been falling away from grace latterly.
They doubtless think that the dead pull of the
pious section will carry the institution up the hill
of virtue. Lecturer Gregory found the door of his
class-x-oom barricaded from the outside the other
day, and when he put his shoulder to ths obstruc-
tion, and marohed triumphantly over a litter of
inverted chairs, he beheld a score of students
reciting Mr. Colling’s “Oadj on the Passions with
E roper “aksent and ges ikerlation.” He also be-
eld some caricatures of himself chalked on the
blackboard. The lecturer breathed profanely, but,
preserving external decency, dived into a corner
for the duster. When in the middle of the floor
he felt the duster was unduly bulky, and, by Black-
stone’s Commentaries, there was life in it. The
lecturer dropped the uncanny thing, and out
jumped a kitten. Thereupon the students gave
some more of Mr. Ceiling's “Gad” with proper
aksent and gestickerlation, and Lecturer Gregory
vamoosed the ranche. Such is the painful legend.
Before the Professorial Board, which sat in the
Wilson Hall on the Bth, Dr. Dobson gave corrobo-
rative evidence of the depravity of these particular
alumni. The Board orderfd the class to hand up
the ringleaders. The class wouldn't do it The
Board, therefore, resolved that the class be dis-
banded until the names of the offenders be given
up. That is a serious step; but the students de-
clare they will not yield to the lecturers, and the
lecturers declare that rather than submit to a
c< nunuance of the old treatment they are ready
to go into the wooden-leg and glass-eye business.
One of the disadvantages of having too
much property about one’s person has been pain-
luiiy demonstrated in the case of Tawhaio, and
that monarch s opinion of British justice is of a
malignant type bordering on bewilderment. Be-
ing short of funds in London one night, he got
peckish for a bit of white map, but decided op


RINGWORM.
I have had a Ringworm Humor got at the
barber's for six vears, which spread all over my
ii*rs, face, and neck, and which itched and irritated
me a great deal. I have used many remedies by
advice of physicians without benefit. Your Cuti-
ctriiA Remedies have entirely cured me, taking
every bit of humor off my face and leaving it as
smooth as a dollar. I thank you again for the
help it has been to me. , „
GEORGE W. BROWN, Mason.
48 Marshall-street, Providence, R. I.
The only safe and sure cure for Gravel or
Urinary troubles, is Hop Bitters. Prove it. Read.
Ayeb’s Sarsaparilla is the most effective
blood-purifier ever devised. It is recommended
by the best physicians.
Don't Die in the House— “ Rough on Rats,”
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
liies, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses Moss & Co., Sydney Agents.
Oh! that man should put an enemy into
their months to steal away their brains: Wolfe's
Schnapps will produce the most exhilarating
effects without cloudiDg the braiu or impairing
the faculties.
,u„a dee. He Went tola pawnbroker’s, and asked
a loan. “Vat security?” asked Ephraim
Hiiirnl “MV w;ord, as a King.” “ Ha! staust the
SLht shop; All thte Kings COme here. The Prince
fiKhiß,, r want Bpecie ,.. sal(i King Tawbiao;
Rfho cares of Btate press, and the shops will be
“Vat property have you. got? Vere’s
j,7fUr Vatch?” "Left it in New Zealand on my
i&ate ” “ HovV Uiauv aefes in your Kingdom—
Xiiartet acre and a. goat, I s’pose ? I can’t lend
Sidnut security.” “ Will you advance, anything if
t nrodUde the title deeds ?” “ I yill, vlth greatest
iißASiire.” “ Hold on, then, till I tfiinS,” solilo-
riiiised Tawhiao j “if I hand over the deeds. 1 shall
2it on a throne no more. The seat of government
will indeed be thortiy. , But I must live—do you
«ant to keep the deeds?” “Only vant to see
them, and here’s the money.” “ Bring the candle
Rearer, sflid the King ; “are you ready ?” “ Yes.”
VdWblao tufned his back on the Jew. His mantle
Au from bis ShOiilders, and thete—not on the
ahHulders, and not in the srtiall of His batik—tat-
InoCd Was a fllad of His lands. There WaS a frenzied
rtf an IgraelltiSh bot/t careering oVer the estate,
and one Maort King hCad fitst into the Street.
'■Well,” muttered ,the King, “ I wonder what he
did that tor? Ckn’t make but the infernal
lavages.”
Ttl&re is aji instiliition itl victofist called
ihe Bishop of Melbourne's Fund, whose Object is
to bay lay readers for preaching. Church of En-
ilandism through ,the poorer districts of the
oniony. Thfe annual meeting in connection with
this institution was held ip fffip Assembly Hall in
hoUiqs-street; soipe nights ago.. The attendance
was good, the speech-making vigorous, the en-
thusiasm tropical, find the .collection taken up—
but veil come ..to that dire/Aly. , Archdeacon
•Stretch shovelled out, statistics, and, wound up
With an appeal. The Bisfiop blessed, hinpself, and
waded intq the necessities of the institutiop until
chin and mouth were covered, and he had tq send
the voice,.through his nose. .He drove it out full
blast, however, and made the audience feel the
obligation they were under of putting something
handsome into the box. The Dean followed suit,
and Mr. F. R. Godfrey and the Rev. W. G. Hindley
rubbed it in in game style. Then Sir George Ver-
don arose, hot and peppery. He said that the men
who would not contribute liberally to this fund
were not worthy of their Bishop or of their reli-
gion; all denominations would cry shame at them,
2nd would feel that the Bishop was wasting his
great powers by living and working among such
a people. Tho applause was great at this stage,
and the enthusiasm, in beads of perspiration,
worked itself down the noses of the appreciative
multitude. Then the collection was taken up and
counted. It came to £4O. Of this Sir George con-
tributed £25, leaving £l5 as the sum total which,
under this extraordinary pressure, the balance of
the brilliant assemblage sacrificed. The doxology
was chanted, and everybody tried to look preter-
naturally devout.
S'ellow-oWornis, let us do a grovel as we
turn to the Illustrated SFOrtlnq and Drama-
tic News of August 2nd and read, “The other
evening at the Heaitheries, a man was observed to
be hovering about the stall where the Prince of
Wales was expected.” Having a roost-robbing
look about him, the joker was carefully watched,
and “ entering into, conversation with someone
gtatlding by, he Skid he had coriie froih Aiistrdlia,
the main objedt of his visit being a desire to see tne
Princess.” Our Mr. Wales hearing this, thought
he'd amuse himself with the “ crank,” and accord-
ingly he had him trotted up and (as the sporting
!,nd dramatic groveller says) “ presented to the
‘rincess, who spoke, so graciously to him that he
eparted at the grid df the short interview over-
oyed, with tears or pleasure in his eyes.” H. H.,
for a ducat! None but that distinguished littera-
teur could so successfully Bdheme for a bow from
Royalty, and we’d cheerfully pawn otlf Sunday
gdul for a nhdto..or the great map as he siofe-
Berdd dp before Alexandra With" tears Of plea-
Hilft) ih his eyes.” We want it. to balance
another one we have; representing the great
man behind a sixpenny-bar princess’ skirts out
here, with a tear of anything but pleasure in hi 6
feye as fie inlplor’ed her to sit dn hi 3 defenfieless
head and swear he was out, ir a rridd-'lieaded fellow
Vlth a ttojabwhip fiaffie along and made anxious
fdr him. The Heaitheries incident re-
minds us of the tale told of another tuft-hunter
of ——’s calibre, who showed his idolatry for
a certain princess by seizing the flnger-plass in
which she wiped her greasy tips at a State dinner,
and draining off the contents at a single gulp. And
this being told to the high-born dariie, she promptly
exclaimed, “ Mercy me ! tell the fellow ro call
round after! have had my fdot-bath to-night, and
i’ll glvb, him something strong.” Verily, “the
Ithafn of man’s bred out into baboon and mon-
key.”
The Bishop of Melbourne, it appears,
comes within the category of moderate drinkers,
like his Episcopalian brother, Barry. But you
mustn't rush madly to the conclusion that the
Right Reverend Moorhouse takes an impious
pleasure in hi 3 port, or seeks for solace in his
sherry, as do other men. Kindly sit still one
moment, and we’ll explain to you why the Bishop
ke6psa “bottle on the ohimbley piece, and puts
his lips to it when so dispoged.” It’s for the good
of sinners—to enable him to vlve the old chariot
an extra push, as Major Bafker wofild sky. No
other reason, we assure you. Don’t shut one eye,
B.nd remark, “Walker!” because we are merely
Stating fact. The Melbourne D.T. found out all
about it the other day. One of the hungfiest-look-
ing of the D.T. staff was put into a white choker,
and .'made-up as milch like a Curate aS possible,
and then despatched to interview MborhouSe dn
that thirsty subject, the “ Liquor traffic.” During
this interview it was that Bishop M. exolained the
glorious use to whioh the grape’s juice may be
put. Said he: “I took the pledge when a young
man, and was for some years a teetotaler. It was
to me no sacrifloe; but my work was very ex-
hausting, and I was told by one of the ablest
physicians of the time that I must either drink a
glass of wine to dinner or greatly diminish my
labours. I felt it right to take the wine, rather
than cripple myself in work.” Think of that, dear
friends. The Bishop has for years been pouring
the nasty occasional glass of liquor down his
throat from purely philanthropic motives. Don’t
laugh, but do likewise. If you feel that “swear-
ing-off ” cripples you in your work, why, just
heave a sigh and “ swear on ” again. We have.
The struggle against our prejudices was a hard
one, but the good cause triumphed. We hired one
of the ablest physicians to tell us that the litera-
ture of our age would benefit if we took an inci-
dental rum hot, and we take it. After you with
the sugar.
If you don’t want to be sick, skip this and
oblige, because it is rather a nauseous bit. Well
(to get it over as quickly as possible), you must
understand that the Melbourne D.T., bein r a seri-
ous p per, feels, naturally enough, a rabid admira-
tion for that plump, out-and-out Christian, the
Prince of Wales, as well as for all his works. The
anxious interest taken by this royal philanthropist
in the welfare of his poorer countrymen and
countrywomen—especially actresses—is such as
almost to melt the D.T. to tears. It says: “We
commented some time ago upon the fact that the
Prince of Wales is sitting as a private member,
along with those who may form his future sub-
jects, on a Royal Commission appointed to enquire
into tho housing of the poor.” (We remember
being ill for a week over those same comments;
but no matter, we are feeling comparatively
strong again, now.) Then the D.T. goes on to
quote the report of a feeble little speech made by
Prince Albert Victor (the “ Royal youth ”) on the
same plebeian subject, and sa - s: “ We hail it as an
augury of the happiest kind that father and
son are as one in sentiment upon this matter,
and trust that, as both bear the honoured
and revered name of the Prince who was
known as * Albert the Good,’ they may follow in
his footsteps. It will, indeed, be an incomparable
event should so gracious and deserved a title be
maintained through three generations.” Now.
what on earth does the D.T. mean by saying that
our Gracious Sovereign Lady’s husband “ was
known as ‘Albert the Good’?” He is known as
A. the G.—in a poem, written to order, by Baron
Tennyson. In the same way, the defunct gillie
might be known as “Brown the Blest.” And as
regards “Wales’s” likelihood of doing anything to
accomplish tbe “incomparable event” aforemen-
tlcmed—but you’d better run outside and be sick
without loss of time. Why, we could tell you a tale
afiotit somebody smuggling * couple of the demi-
monde into the Royal carriage to and from Sandown
Park races, that would make your each particular
loyal haif to stand on end. Bluebeard was a baby
compared with the “eoming K.’
The Melbourne ABetJg, in a “leader” on
Mr. Peter Campbell’s matrimonial experiences,
affords an illustration of the way in which certain
newspaper men will distort facts with a view to
Support fancies. Some people are wont to oonceive
that a departure from orthodoxy unsolders all the
goodly fellowship a Ulan has held with the domestic
virtues. The conception is erroneous, but its ex-
istence hds to be counted on when the subject of
tergiversation from a standard religion turns up.
A writer who pretends to he informed will take
care to keep events that should be classed as Post
from beiDg classed as Propter. This the Argus
writer has not done. And he sins by commission
mofe deeply than by omission. He makes the cir-
cumstances which result in the “ well-deserved
obloquy ” of tbe missionary spring from the mis-
sionary’s Acceptance of tbe principles of free-
thought. He sketches Peter’s biography thus:
“ He (Campbell) was formerly a bush missionary,
but something or other hi ving occurred to unsettle
his religious opinions, he joined the comprehensive
rgnks of the freethinkers. It then occurred to
him that, though well on in years, he might
as well take A tioket in the lottery of
marriage.” Then succeed the which
make up the well-deserved obloquy. Now, it was
not through the gat*? of freethinklng that Peter
entered ?nto his otlO’quy. Peter aVers, and so does
his wife, that he w&s a, genuine missionary when
he made love, whhn he mat ri6d, and Whi n he
made upon her the magnificent settlement of two-
pounds-ten per annum as an acquittance in full of
thp total of, his .marital responsibilities. Peter
1 writes unctuously at this period, telling her of the
: miles of bush country he is abqut.to traverse in
the discharge of hid, high and holy duties, and giv-
ing her to know that he leaves her behind apiong
all the bad adjectives of the language. There cap
I be no mistaking it that Peter was a man of ample
faith during that period of suffering. We don’t
want to make a case of any kind out of Peter.
Whether he roots himself in orthodoxy or hetero-
doxy does not concern us. But, we are concerned
in doing what we canto keep a popular,ejror from
being pandered to by an unscrupulous \yri,ter.
Offences of this kind do injury to the Press gener-
G. C. CORNWALL.
ally. An influence caught shamelessly prostituting
itself in so trivial an affair merits to share “ the
well-deserved obloquy ” with the once orthodox
missionary.
Hang these New Zealand penny-whistle
constituencies! There is no pleasing them, any-
how. There was, for instance, Walter Hypolite
Pilliet, Esq., whom the electors of Stanmore,
Christchurch, returned as their member three
years ago, on the Grey ticket. Well, Walter Hypo-
lite, you see, as soon as he got into the House and
saw what was which, recognised at a wink the im-
mense advantage of being on friendly terms with
the Colonial Treasurer, and he accordingly gave
the Grey party the slip, and placed his vot« at the
service of Major Atkinson, who occupied that
position in the Whittaker-Atkinson administra-
tion. But were his constituents grateful, and did
they present him with an address and a lot of
“sufferings?” With the latter certainly, and
Elenty of them. When he tried to return, after
is labours as a political rodent were over, to the
bosom of his virtuous domestic solie- a-manger, the
unfeeling wretches actually chased him across
thirteen gorse-feuced paddock?, and he had to hide
in a suburban sewer till the “ free and indepen-
dent” of Stanmore had retired, growling tuture
vengeance, to their several downy couches for the
night. He has seldom, since then, appeared in
public, except in the company of a big bull-dog
presented to him by the Major, and a walking-
stick with a fearfully developed head, the gift of
an admiring Israelite, one of whose ancestors re-
ceived it in pawn from Jonah, after the latter’s
return from his trip to Nineveh. And now, once
more, when the electors of Stanmore have secured
the weighty services of big Daniel Reese, the best-
looking and honestest man in New Zealand, except
our correspondent, and Daniel votes with Sir
George and walks with him, arm in arm, nightly
along Lambton Quay, in full sight of the blazing
universe, what do these never-rest-and-be-thank-
ful constituents do, but try to vex their unruffled
representative by sending him the present of a
rat-trap, a ferret, and a gross of packets of some
stuff called “Rough on Rats.” These articles
Daniel received with a sweet and seraphic smile,
and after showing them to his friends, has had
them properly labelled with red ink and re-pre-
sented to the Christchurch Museum.
Ganganelli laid it down that no naan of
originality should receive promotion in the church.
The great Cardinal saw that a hack was better than
a blood-horse for the sort of road he had in his
eye. The rule is more applicable to-day than it
was then. It will stand among tfeejftst of ecclesi-
astical blunders If the Rev. C. M Telfend, of CoL
lingwood, be advanced to any high dignity. He
has originality—a most peculiar, striking, and
noteworthy kind of originality. Not more than
once or twice in a century does originality like
Yelland’s manifest itself in the church. Take this
as the freshest sample of it. They were holding a
meeting in the Foresters’ Hall, in Collingwood, for
the purpose of carrying some resolutions in favour
Of Local Option. Rev. »elland wanted them
passed, Publican Pugh wanted them scored out.
They went at it, geographically, historically, exe-
getically, and pugilistically. The parson had
the best of it in the three early stages, but,
naturally enough, Pugh was the better pugi-
list. We were in the hall of jhe Y.M.C.A., in
Russel 1-street, at the time, leading the prayer
that all the sections of Christianity might yet be
brought together under the spiritual guidance of
dearly beloved Brother Marsh, who alone, in our
opinion, has the right hang of the Celestial riddle.
Therefore, we were not present at the scene in
Collingwood, and hive to rely for our facts on the
report in the daily Press. The report is, however,
we are confident, substantially accurate, for we
know the man who wrote it, and, as he is just
after doing six months in gaol for prevarication,
it is highly improbable that he would fall again so
soon. The report runs: The excitement now be-
came intense, Mr. Yelland standing at one end of
the table attempting to ppeak, and emphasising
every effort by stamping his foot and striking the
table with his fist, while at the other end was Mr.
Pugh, shaking his flat at Mr. Yelland, and
shouting at the top of his voice, “That’s
what we call a tableau.” Then said Mr.
Yelland. “Who was it at Wolverhampton, that
advocated the pulling down of the public
houses and the suppression of drink? Why, that
man!” And he pointed at Pugh. Again: “ Who
was it crept into ray church a® a verger, and turned
up his eyes in detestation of the drink traffic?
Why, that man ” And still he pointed at Pugh.
Pugh said, " Thei'e is a fffiniSter of the church for
you! If he was a man, r would strike him.” Pooh,
Pugh! Yelland’s gendCr is fight enough, we’ll go
bail, It is his Unfortunate bias towards originality
that is vexatious. He is cursed with the genius
Ganganelli eschewed. To point to a worshipper
who turned up bis eyes on Sffndays, and compare
his deeds with his words, Is a monstrous departure
from ecclesiastical routine. Why, whatever his
deeds were, the fact of the greasy man having
crept into church as a verger and turned up his
eyes at the fight place, merited for him a place in
the ring of the ranfiomed. Yelland's arraignment
of Pugh implies that in hie reverence s opinion a
man ought not to make a profession of religion on
Sunday, whose daily life contradicted the profes-
sion. That’s what we call originality of a most
peculiar, striking, and noteworthy kind. iou itiay
say it is only common honesty. But, remember,
we are talking of the church. We rcpeat it 1b
originality, most startling originality, and it should
not be forgotten when Yelland seeks ordination.
One of the most remarkable trials that has
taken place in Great Britain for many years is that
of Cornwall v. O’Brien, which has recently been
heard in the Nisi Prius Court, Dublin, before Mr.
Justice O’Brien and a special jury, when the
damages were laid at £5OOO, for alleged libel. The
plaintiff in this memorable action was Gustavus L.
Cornwall, secretary to the General Post OlHce, Dub-
lin; and the defendant, William O Brien, M.P., the
editor of the Nationalistic paper, UNITED IRELAND.
During the past decade, there were dark rumours
afloat In “dear, dirty Dublin” that abominable
and nameless crime?, such as can only he hinted at,
not mentioned among civilized men, were perpe-
trated by men moving In the upper circles, and
which the editor of United Ireland, at all
hazards, determined to bring to light. The terrible
and utterly degrading nature of the offences ren-
dered the task of discovery aDd proof almost im-
possible. and will, therefore, the more readily be
understood the risk that attended the fearless
journalist who was instrumental in unmasking the
most loathsome scoundrels that ever denied this
fair earth. Cornwall, who has occupied a foremost
position in Dublin aristocratic circles, is o*3 years or
age, and has spent 44 years in the Government
service, having entered the Postal department in
London as far back as 1840. In 1843 he was ap-
pointed secretary to Colonel May bury, one of the
heads of the department, and some time after be be-
came private secretary to the Earl of St. Germain s.
He was appointed to the secretaryship of the G.r.O,
Dublin, in 1850 by the Marquis of Clanricarde, a
position which he has filled since then. In 1861, be
married a sister of Sir Robert Alexander Daizell,
of Scotland, who is still living. The other parties
who are implicated in the crimes of which Corn-
wall is accused are also persons occupying high
social positions—amongst them being an army cap-
tain and other “swells,” and the names of not a
few of the nobility are also freely mentioned.
When the web of evidence was fairly woven, the
editor of United Ireland, in the issue of May 10,
1883, published an article impeaching Cornwall,
JBoltoo, and French-t”e latter also Government
officials—and charging them witu’sseries of crimes'
of the grossest description. As maybe expected,.
I this article had the desired effect, and fyßrien was*
I promptly served with writs for libel, ita which*
I damages were laid at between £30,000 ana £40.0001.
1 One of these—Bolton v O’Brien—is yet sub JwMoey.
the other, Cornwall v. O'Brien, has justtermin.’rted.
In both cases, defendant pleaded justification
denied that the articles were libellous, but were Shu
every instance substantially true in every particu-
lar. The best legal talent that could be procured in
Dublin was secured on both sides, am 1 luring the
trial, which lasted over live days, some of the most
horrible disclosures were made—disclosures which
were in the extreme shocking and revolting; so*
much so, that the counsel for plaintiff said that ho
feared that the terrible calamity which befei the*
“Cities of the Plain ” (see Genesis! would not be'
out of place in Dublin! The jury, however, after
due consideration, found a verdict for the defend-
ant in each instance, sustaining in full the pleas of
justification. As may be imagined, the editer of
United Ireland is the hero of the hour. The;
verdict of the jury was received with the greatest
rejoicing; and from one end of the Green Isle U»
the other it was hailed with demonstrations of joy".
Shortly afterwards Cornwall was arrested on the
charges Imputed to him by the United Ireland,
aud several of his companions no w share his incar-
ceration. The affair, as may be imagined, has
caused the most profound sensation in Dublin,
especially in the “society” circles to which the-
accused belong. In the meantime, expressions off
gratitude are pouring in upon Mr. O'Brien from 1
all parts of the kingdom, and a movement is now
on foot to raise funds to testimonialise him as weW
as to indemnify him for the expense he has in-
curred in his triumphant vindication of the cause
of morality. There’s a moral to be derived from
this case: “ It is a safer game for the plueky jour-
nalist to expose infamy in benighted (?> Sreland
than in enlightened New South Wales.”
• • a
It is said that Mr. R T. W. Cave, of Bunda-
berg (Qeensland), stan d a good show of be-
e uning the next Earl of Newburgh... Master
Ernest Hutcheson, the boy-genius, whom it
is Dr. Torrance's privilege to have under bis
guidance, gave a brilliant pianoforte recital ately
in the Melbourne Athenaeum. The lad ovoked
ravishing music from the instrument. Tho per-
formance comprised several compositions of his
own, and—here let us qnote the programme :
“Selections from Heller, Chopin, Mendelssohn.
Beethoven, Henselt, Mozart, Schumann. Ruben-
stein, Schubert, Handel, and Robtmon.” That cer-
tainly Is an array of great masters I And, if there
be a weakness about any of the names, well, isn’t
Robinson there ?-tbe bonne tmiche, as it were. ...
Of the volume of poems recently published by
Dr. Le Gay Breretofi (Sydney) the Sjtectatok says:
“ They do credit to the oultuie of the author.”
Dr, 1 Parkes tells the Orangemen that he has formed
his own notions of what is good for the country.
On intervic'witog him to obtain the receipt, we>
learned it to be A VeVy simple one. Only this, and
nothing more-(l) Parkes; (2) Imore Parkes, plue
(should occasion require - )« little more Parkes
Ben. Morgan, a Goulburn pioneer, 60 year*old.
had to give himself up to the police the other day
for protection as a vagrant, because his employers*
wouldn't ante up his wages. Ben. went to “quod,’*
and his employers, of course, went to—church
Mrs Bladen-Neill, relict of Lieutenant-Colonel'
Neill (who was a victim to the propensity of tne*
cur to bark at a horse’s heels), recently dead. She-
spent a lot of coin in striving to establish the silk-
growing industry, near Corowa—and now she i@
herself a gone co-coon Arthur Huet, chemis*.
while doing Artnidale as a dentist, took himself off
by drinking up an assortment of poisons in the
most foolish manner just prior to completing in-
suring his life for £20i,0. He should certainly have
waited till the policy was issued. Two thou—, of
course, a cool two thou would have been such
a nice little sum to begin the next world with.
• • *
I Madame Nilsson says she has refused an'
offer from Mr. Gye of £4OO a night. Pattf will,
under the American contract with Mr. Mapleson,
receive £SOOa night The “Dublin scandal” ar-
rests still continue, one of the latest taken into
custody on this most horrible charge being Dr.
Fernandez, medical officer of the 3rd Battalion
Grenadier Guards George Darrell had, at latest,
settled with C. Wilmot (an old Australian, who is
now sole proprietor of the Mew Grand Theatre,
the latest London house, which seats 3500) to open
in October with “ The Sunny South.” George lives
in a street at one end of which is the hraes plate of
a “ Society for the Protection of Women. ” At tho
far other end lives A. P. Martin—lt is known to
but lew why the Marquis *of B. uever miTried.
and as it is no discredit to him, we will give the
reason. When he whs yet a young man, he one
night, alter eating several pig’s teot. went to-
bed and bad a horrible nightmare—he dreamed
he was married, and it made such an impres-
sion on him that he could never since summon
courage enough to have his dream realized...
Tamberlik, the great tenor of flve-and-twenty
years ago* is still alive, and sang last year with ai,
his accustomed vigour at Grenada, in his64th year!
lt is said that the American millionaire, Van-
derbilt, has offered the Duke of Marlborough
£450,000 for the Blenheim Gallery—lt is again
alleged that the Fortescue-Garmoyle action has*
been settled, and that, through the medium of
£SOCO, lout est Finney ....Mrs. Grundy (!) has justr.
been divorced in England “ But I say unto you
that ye resist not evil . . . and If any man take
away thy coat let him have thy cloak also.” Ren-
toul ea\s these words don’t refer to the sealskin
jackets of apostle’s wives; moreover, he holds that
with regard to giving persons into custody on sus-
picion .they didn't know everythingidown in Judeu.
... Lady Bowen ordered home from Hongkoog on
accb’unt of her health-sick of the old complaint,,
George Ferguson Prince Leopold—that gallant
Colonel-had a presentiment two days beiore be
died that something was to happen to him. This
is what has appeared in the society papers. With
a discretion, however, strongly savouring of
loyalty, they neglect to add that the presentiment
or the late gallant Colonel was that he would one
day be in hopes of drawing his martial sword...
A telegram Ptatos that Mr. Hughes author ot
“Tom Brown’s School Days,” has denounced Mr.
Joe Thompson for fleecing some young men on
board the Atlantic. The Cooma Express, how-
ever, has it that Joe has denounced Hughes for
the same thing. It says that Joe has warmly de-
nounced Hughes. We would trust Cooma before
Reuter in matters of this sort, and look eagerly
forward to a cable of a few of Joe’s “ warmer
words. But the cable would melt lu transit, or, at
least, Cooma would have to print in red ink ...
Here's the same sad old tale again. The late H. J.
Byron s dramatic literary work alone turned him
in the tidy little sum of £BO,OOO. A fund is now
being raised for the gifted author’s family. It s
wonderful how these geniuses do it, but they do.


MADAME WOODYEAR’S ELECTRIC CIRCUS
AND GREAT LONDON EQUESQUIRICULUM,
BELMOHE PARK, Sydney.
riroTOino- crowded audiences. The Beautiful Palace Marquee, that cost £5OO, elegantly fitted,
s uner bl jm decorated* an db r i lltan t tv* i) ?u no in at ed. Under the ample folds of which visitors can enjoy a
PntPi ininmcnt with all the comforts and ease obtainable in their own drawing-rooms. A
anontmiaVenithifle Pavilion is also provided as a lounge or Garden Promenade, in which gentlemen
'gs? smoke. I ThS peXr&ances need no puff. It is everywhere admitted that the com-
pany of artists is the best over brought to Australia, and that tlie Stud of Horses and Pomes u magni-
flcont The natural result of so much excellence is CROWDED HOUSEb.
nconr. xne nat MATINEE EVERY SATURDAY AT 2 O’CLOCCK.
DON ALD DINNIE the world-renowned Scotch athlete, and Champion Wrestler of the world, will
commence a series of exhibitions on Saturday, September 20.
Professional Directory*
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS! and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney.
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Mubgrove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Continued Success of Williamson, Garner, and
Mnajfjvtve’s Royal Comic Opera Company.
OLIVETTE OLIVETTE
OLIVETTE OLIVETTE
THIS (Thursday) EVENING,
at quarter to 8 precisely,
Audran’s chef d’ceuvre, in three acts,
OLIVETTE
" OLIVETTE
OLIVETTE
In active preparation, Mr. Luscombe Searelle’s
Opera, “ESTRELLA..”
PRICES: Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 35.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
O
E R
H
USE
"Lessees ... E. Majkroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of
RIGN O L D and ALLIS ON.
Acting Manager Monty Browne.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY,
MISS DE GREY,
who will be supported by Mrs. Chippendale and
Miss De Grey’s
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY,
will repeat their Great Success, the most elegant
of all comedies, Oliver Goldsmith’s
SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER
SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER,
pronounced by all patrons to be the Most Charm-
ing Performance ever given in Sydney.
Business Manager
Stage Manager
Prices as usual.
George-street.
for Miss I Mr. A. L. Cunard.
De Grey J Mr. F. T. Lingham.
Box plan at Huenerbein’s, 411
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
LESSEE AND MANAGER :
MR. WYBEttT REKVE.
THIS (Thursdav) EVENING, and for Eight fol-
lowing Nights. First production in Sydnoy of the
Powerful Drama, „ MOTHB „
Dramatised from Ouida’s popular novel, “ Moths,”
In which Mr. Wybert Reeve and his talented Com-
pany will appear. „ , .
Box Plan Nicholson’s. Tickets Loder s Hotel.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
24th WEEK. 24th WEEK.
Unparalleled Success.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS.
Great Success of Keenan and Bent’s new local
sketch, A K’NIGHT OF THE BUFFg.
Saturday Evening, an entire change of programme.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Paling’s, where
Pianos for this entertainment are supplied.
n A N C I N G .
j?jiOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon elasses. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 351
Castlereagh street, near Batburst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, ana is superior in ventilation,
goring floor, &c. No decorations required.
SPECIAL NOTICE-ALTERATION OF AR-
-5 RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the wnly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
)pen every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
8 a.m. till dark.
Ldmission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 315.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 31s.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
lavxll, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
rom France to England in 13 hours, 20th August
*77. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
teamers leave the circular Quay for the Baths
very quarter-of-an-hour.
E BLACKBURN, Wrestler, a letter for you
• at this offlee-
W ANTED an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
Engraving Business. Premium required.
Apply at this Office.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30.
THE QUEENBCLIFF ESTATE,
MANLY.
JUST BEYOND THE CURL CURL LA.GOON,
having large frontages to the Lagoon Beach,
Q UEENBCLIFF-ROAD
PAVILION-ROAD
CROWN.RO AD.
107 CHOICE BUILDING BITES,
with frontages from 50 feet to 122 feet, by depths
of 150 feet to 467 feet.
MAGNIFICENT OCEAN VIEWS.
Within easy walking distance of the Manly Pier
and the charming Fresh-water Beach, recently
dedicated to public use.
MILLS and PILE have received instructions
from the proprietor to sell by public auction
on the ground, on SATURDAY, September 20,
at 3 30,
The above
MAGNIFICENT ALLOTMENTS,
beyond all question the finest portion of the
charming marine suburb of Manly, well situate
on the slope of a beautiful hill, covered with
ferns and native flowers, and commanding
such views as are to be seen nowhere else in
this locality.
The terms of sale will be—
-10 per cent, deposit;
Balance in 18 monthly payments.
Title, Torrens' Aot.
The question is now frequently asked, ‘’Where
is Queenscliff ? ”
Queenscliff comprises the whole of the tine un-
dulating range across the Curl Curl Lagoon, ex-
tending from the ocean to the old Pittwater-road,
which overlooks the whole of the town of Manly
and the lower portion of Sydney Harbour.
It is difficult to imagine any spot so well suited
for the Marine Suburb of a large city as Manly,
possessing a splendid Beacn on the shores of the
Harbour, approachable from the city by smooth
water all the way, while within less than a quarter
of a mile from the steamers’ wharf is the grand
ocean beach nearly a mile in length, fronting
which, abcut 150 feet back, are numerous line
houses extending the greater part of the distance.
The most charming spots in Manly for Villa
Sites are the hills to the North, and South Clifton
Heights to the South are being rapidly built over,
and it will be a difficult matter in the conrse of a
few years to secure a decent sized piece of ground.
Queenscliff bounds Manly to the North, and ex-
tends to the beautifully shelly beach of Fresh-
water, which has been dedicated for publio re-
creation.
It is within easy walking distance across the new
foot bridge of the Manly wharf, and commands
LAND and OCEAN VIEWS unequalled near
Sydney, and the villa sites are beyond all question
the finest in the neighbourhood. They vary in
depth from 150 to 460 feet, and those fronting the
Lagoon have water frontages suitable for bathing-
houses.
English estates have special values in conse-
quence of there being good shooting about, and
there should be good shooting in this locality;
there is certainly good fishing out at sea and in
Curl Curl Lagoon. Rabbits and hares may be
abundant, but the auctioneers cannot vouch for
the fact; and as for foxes, there is a whole family
at Manly, but it would be dangerous to attempt
to shoot any one of them.
This superb Estate will be sold on the ground, on
SATURDAY AFTEKNOON, September 20,
at 3.30.
Lithos. at the Rooms.
Plans on view.
Conveyances will ply from the steamers wharf
to the ground.
Easy terms.
Torrens’ Title.
MILLS and PILE, Auctioneers,
130 Pitt-strect.
THIRD EDITION NOW READY.
Much Improved.
Maid, wife, and mother,
A Medical Book for Womankind. “ Worth
its weight in gold.” Post free, in secure cover, Is.
6d. N.S.W. stamps. To be had only of the Pub-
lisher, Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box 740, G.P.0., Sydney.
HOW TO LOOK YOUNG and HANDSOME,
and to Live One Hundred Years; applicable
to both Sexes. A really wonderful book. Post
Free, Is.; intercolonial, Is. 2d. To be had only of
the Publisher, Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box 740, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
C. COWLES,
GUNMAKER & IMPORTER.
" t C..SCDTT * 5v
g
1
Bole Atrent: for „
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNf.
For Price and Ouality ave no equal. _
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARM S in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen. m
®T C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STRUCT.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
skak.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE Of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices : 42 KING BTREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED.
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
konoowamu
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King- Street, Bydney
Visit «T. J. Ryan’s
DRAPERY AND CLOTHING ARCADE,
FOR CHOICE
Drapery, Millinery, and Underclothing, Men’s, Boys’ and Youths’
Clothing, Hats, Ties, Shirts, &c.
ALL FRESH, CHOICE, FASHIONABLE, AND CHEAP. COME AND SEE.
ADDRESS :
<l. J. RYAN, Drapery and Clothing Arcade
760 and 762 GEORGE STREET, ITAYMARKET ONLY.
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSHES,
Made of Pure Bristles, not Wires, Elegantly
Each Hair Brush A* ttihc* tiegMtf
sign; and contains, the gntno fijwwwrv&g
' magnetic power, the difference uSliiff
. jniy iff the size. Each fa handsomely boxed
\ fefecttjtirtniejd bye --
111 JMlgmnu, uCilip tuiumii; VX i o
by the Prince nnd'Princess of AValeS.
Used by the'. King of Holland and
prince Bismark. and written upon
by the Kt. HjDn.W. Gladstone, and
are nowbrougai ‘Wtbe notice ofthe
Australian public. Tii CJ
by natural means-will always do
good, never harm, and are a
remedyJasting for many years
They should be used daily in
place L ct the ordinary hair
From
Rev. Dr. Bridgeman,
Brooklyn.
Gentlemen, 1 have
heVfef bfefofd given a tes-
timonial,but htn Willing
to eneouragd the use Of
hn holiest temedy. I
recommendingit most
cordially. My hair,
about a year since.
I commenced falling
out, and I was rapid-
ly becoming bald ;
but, since using the
brush, a thick growth
of hair has made its
appearance, quite
equal to that which I
had previous to its
falling out. I have
tried other remedies
but without success.
After this remarkable
result I purchased one
for my wife, who has
been a great sufferer
from hwidache, and she
finds it a prompt and
infallible remedy.
A. C. Bridgeman, B.d.
Pi
Jl
'From
The Mayor
of Saratoga.
It always cures
my headache with
in a few minutes.
A beautiful hair
brush, well worth the
price, aside from its
curative qualities.
J. R. CHAPMAN.
From the
Venerable President of the
N. Y. Life Ins. Co.
I
I suffered every morning for years from head-
aches ; your brush relieves them at oflce. I heartily recom-
mend it. MORRIS FRANKLIN.
From the Speaker of the House ot Representatives. ,
Wife suffered for years from headaches; your brush cured them at
once ; it has also cured several friends. I use it to remove dandruff i
it works like a charm. My wife was getting bald ; it stopped the fall*
ing hair, and made a how growth.
GEO. THORNBURG, Little Rock, Atk.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache in 5 minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp!
Promptly Arrests Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe tho Weary Brain.
A BEAUTIFUL BRUSH l LASTING FOR YEARS!
Money Beturned if not as Bepresented.
We will send either size of these celebrated Brushes, post paid, to any part
of N. S. W. or Queensland on receipt of price named, with Is. added. Re-
mittance can be made in Cheques, Drafts, Post Office Orders, Stamps, or
Currency, and if an extra four-pence is enclosed, we will guarantee safe de-
livery by registered post. Or request your nearest Chemist or Fancy Store-
keeper to obtain one for you, and see that Dr. Scott’s name is on the Box.
No. 1 Hair Brush, ss. Od.
No. 2 Hair Brush, 7s. 3d.
No. 3 Hair Brush, 9s, 2d.
No-1 Hair Brush, 11s. 6d.
No. 5 Hair Brush, 13s. fid.
pall JJaII Electric Association,
54 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
P. 0 —Box 221,
'Cheques can he Crossed Won Bank of Australia.
Send for Circular of Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh Brushes, Corsets, <Ss Belts for Ladies <sc Gentlemen
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies Imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMKOCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 110 Fitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane and Adelaide:


I3F THIRTY SHILLINGS.
yr
/ /
mr THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is tho latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist's art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and it la more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, aud
then only by the severest tests. Ornaments made
from this new composition arc equal in design and
general appearance to those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe of
the Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals*
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the storlinur gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trad s become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness
in trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
SPECIALLY OBBEIIVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are fow, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured—we
will return the money, deducting only the trifie
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
N.B —We find that, through an error on the part
of the manufacturers, we are overstocked with
Brooches, and for tho purpose of makiDg a rapid
clearance of that line of Goods, we will 6end to
any customer (post free, if ata distance) on receipt
of Five Shillings (55.), a really exquisite Oriental
Gold Brooch, equal in design, finish, and appear-
ance to a Five Guinea Brooch of the sterling metal.
This offer holds good for a feto weeks only, and is
mado as much for the purpose of advertising our
Oriental Jewellery by sample as for any other
reason ; for tho Brooches will keep, and they are
of the latest design. “To see is to want,” is a
saying so applicable toour goods, that it pays us,
in tho long run, to forward to any person a sample
Brooch at cost price. Examine our catalogue, and
write to us or call on us for what you muy desire.
REMEMHEft THE ADDRESS :
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE CIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Albcrls, with
double slides and tassels, 15s ,20s.,and 255. each*,
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 55., (is., 7s. (id.,
Bs., Bs. (id., Us, aud 10a a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. fid. to 30a.; Ladies’ very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2 10s. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
7s. to 15s. a pair ; Ladies’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, 15s. to 30s ; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaines, 30s. each ; Ladies’
choice Lockets and Neoklets, 17s. od., 20s , 225.
od., 255., 275. od., 305., 355., and 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. od., Ba. (id., 10s., 15s , 205., and 30s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Rings, from 2s od. to Bs. od. each; Solid
Gold Wedding and Keeper RiDgs, 10s. each.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 2 0
Same as above, exoept that this watch is
patent keyless £250
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tasseiis £2 15 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 0 0
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
tnd fully jewelled, in hunting or open
aoed crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert £4 5 0
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 6 0
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, eompensation balance .. £5 5 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
(Sterling Bilver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, cf the highest
grade .£OOO
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, os. 6d„
78. 6d., Bs. od, and 10s. each; Gents’ Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and Hu by Rings, 7s. od.
and Bs. 6d. each; Gents Oriental Gold Rings,
plain half, round buckle, fiat broad buckle, en-
graved, good luck rings, &c„ &0., from ss. to
8s Cl. each; Gent’s richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 75., 7s. od., Bs.,
Bs. 6d., os, 10s., and 12s. 6d. per set; Same as
half sets, 35., 45., and ss. per set;
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s, per set; Gent’s elegant Seals, real
atones, 7s. od., Bs., 95., 10a., and 12s. 6d.each;
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs.,
10s., and 12s. 6d. each; Gems' Oriental Gold Al-
berts. handsome patterns, 6s. Bd. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Al-
berts, made specially to our order, 17s. 6d., 205.,
258 , and 30s. each.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre Royal—“ Olivette” P.B.
opera House—” She Stoops to Conquer . .. ib.
gaiety Theatre—“ Moths ” ib.
academy nc Music— Federal MiDStrels ib.
Belmore Park—Woodyear's Circus ib.
Beside his bedstead we were seated,
And coolinjr a Drow that was over-heated;
“ Don’t die,” we said, “ ’tis the month of June;”
He moaned, “ Alas! I can’t die too soon 1”
“ Observe,” continued the lingering' man—
And here he heaved a deep-drawn sigh—
« oh, just observe ” (his face was wan)
“ A hatchet gash o’er my left eye.
“ And all this comes—but you will guess—
Of taking up the real straight tioket ”
He was a battered pulp—ah, yes.
For he had heen an honest “ cricket."
[Where the full-points are, he died.—Poet.]
** * *
Mr. George Musgrove is a smileless young
party, whom we have considered to be wise in his
generation; but it is at present a question, now
that his generation is growing more mature,
whether his wisdom is advancing with his years.
The revival of “Olivette” causes this querv to
rise, Banquo-like, before us. “Olivette,” it will be
remembered, is, our contemporaries on its first
representation informed us, an opera by Aidran,
a ad Andran, and Audrau, and, finally, Audran.
On the score (no joke intended) of the libretto,
these veracious chroniclers differed in an equal
degree. The book, we read, was by Chivor and
Burn, Chuvot and Dur 3, and Chivot and Duru.
The variations were so constantly run on the
names of these unhappy authors that we fully ex-
pected to see one day the names of Chivot and
Duru transformed into Cheevers and Kennedy.
When Mr. Musgrove first produced this piece, he
gave us a spectacle of extraordinary magnificence,
and those who interpreted the various rales were,
with a few exceptions, artists. Pattie Laverne
was Olivette; Harwood, the Duke ties Ifs; Mervin,
de Merrimac; Hallewell, Marvejol; and so on. Mr.
Musgrove, however, has changed all this; and relv-
iDg upon the indulgence of a confiding public has
given us a cast which, though doubtless cheap in
one sense, we trust he may not find dear in an-
other. Miss Fanny Liddiard is, ot course,.a very
comely, shapely, and (possibly) charming young
lady; but she is so ludicrously overweighted with
the part of Olivette that, long before the opera is
over, you wish, despite all her undoubted attrac-
tions, that she were enjoying her Shroud com-
fortably in an airy vault, whore the sea breezes
murmur the requiem of the dead and the fragrant
How’retB blossom above that lovely head—poetry
which, considering we went to last night's fire on
an engine and came back in an ice-cream cart, is
by no means of a discreditable nature. Bref, then,
the pitchforking of Miss Liddiard into a part for
which she is totally unfitted to fill is doi g her an
unkindness as much as it is doing the public an
injustice. Miss Liddiard is an undoubted “ draw ”
amongst that section of the male community
whose intellects are represented by their siirt-
collars; therefore, her appearance on the stage is,
to some extent, a managerial necessity. Let the
charming lady appear, by all means. But don’t
let her sing to the extent of sending us weeping off
to see the monkey-dance at the cirous.
a c ■
Mr. Philip Day (Mr. Harwood’s successor)
as the Duke des Its, gave a startlingly original
representation—especially from a vocal point of
view. Mr. Day it a capital low comedian; but
nature, not satisfied with thus endowing him his-
trionically, has lavished on this clever gentleman
a voice like the whirr of a circular-saw with a
mad dog barking next door. We always considered
that Harwood, if the universe were polled, would
take the palm for atrocious vocalization; but then
this Day had not yet dawned upon us. On the
opening night, there was evidently something
wrong with Mr. W. H. Woodfield, and his perform-
ance was of a dispiriting nature. Mr. T. Grundy,
as Postiche, did his best; but his efforts at no time
were conducive to more hilarity, so far as we are
concerned, than is caused by a death in the family.
Nellie Stewart as the Countess, and Edwin Kelly
as De Merrimac were both eminently conscientious.
By the way, Kelly and Wybert Reeve were born
(this item is for the almanac compilers) in the same
year. That must have been B.C.—we mean Anno
Domini 18671 The mounting was so-so (things can’t
last for ever!); but a number of the costumes
have been renewed. There were the usual eight
tribes of Judah in the dress-circle, and the Cloak-
room Countess sis deliciously unconsoious of the
performance as usual.
A lot of people are talking about Sea-
realle’s “Estrella,” which is to succeed—we mean to
succeed “Olivette”—and it seems that the action all
through is very quick, while the plot is graced by
several gleams or novelty. There is balm in this;
and it will be a glittering spectacle to see the illus-
trious composer conducting his own composition.
Luscomba has gained both money and glory in
America, but that is not all. He has gained some-
thing else-a forehead. And it is right at the back
of his head.
•* • *
Miss Jennie Lee is a young professional
person, who, if she be in any financial difficulty, is
singularly fortunate in misfortune. No such plea,
however, having been set forth in her behalf, the
fact of her taking the recent farewell—we mean
final farewell—benefit at the Royal, when so many
of her Thespian sisters and brethren have long
been heel-less-even cowheel-less—wasthe subject
of some remark. Miss Jennie advertises—” Sydney
wos very good to me, it wos,” and with some
reason. This noble city enabled that—how we
love alliteration!—pretty professional young per-
son to net, in the dim religious light of a matinee
on Saturday last, some £3OO. We are glad that Miss
Jennie Lee was so favourably circumstanced in
regard to the financial portion of her speculation;
but, at the 6ame time, we would suggest that the
heneficiare, in consideration of the munificence
with which she has been treated, should stand at
the office door of the Theatre Royal on any given
morning, and distribute amongst the “ crushed ”
who congregate at the corner sandwiches and
“dickies,” for the contingent of wall-flowers to be
seen there is frequently hungry and seldom clean.
• • •
Miss Lee presented for her “ben.” what
is popularly termed “an attractive programme.”
Every company in Sydney, except the stilts and
the capine opera-buffers, had volunteered service;
the result of which kindness on the part of the
profession was to form an entertainment nearly
the length of the Mont Cenis tunnel. We
had the Minstrels, a “farcical” comedy by the
De Grey combination, a musical m&lange, a song
and dance by the Lee sisters (Jennie and Ada—the
latter recently imported, to the agonized grief,
doubtless, ot an admiring country!), some,
of "The Philanthropist” by George Forbes,
Esquire, and finally “Jo” to whom Sydney
was “ werry good, it wos.” The portion of the
programme which achieved the most success in
all the gorgeous list was the entertainment of the
Minstrels. If analysed, there will be found in this
truthful statement a meaning that is covert.
Horace Bent was in capital form, and told us that
he used to call his girl “ brown sugar ” because she
was sweet and unrefined. Johnny Cowan—for-
merly the idol of the classic “Coll,” an iesthetic
place of amusement once conducted in Melbourne
by an illustrious impresario named Charlie Wright
—Johnny, who was the other end-man, was set
down for a comic song called “Is it likely ? ” Mr.
Cowan composes his own lyrics, which are chiefly
remarkable for one line having more “feet” than
a centipede and the next not having so many legs
as a “ goanna.” But one gem of this beautiful com-
position remains in our memory; it is the line
commencing
“The people of Inverell intend for to see—”
an effort which would alone suffice to stamp Mr*
Cowan as no ordinary versifier. We once heard a
man in Colon sing a song of this description in
Spanish; and he not only had the stamp we have
alluded to on him, but the public. Mr. L. Braham,
upon whose tuneful breast an ornament suggestive
of a tire insurance policy bravely gleamed, treated
us to “When the leaves begin to turn,” a lyric which
with the substitution of “ worm ” for “ leaves,”
would at once constitute itself an attractive (and
not “pernicious”) parody. Mr. Braham sang
very well, indeed; as did also Bent, in a “comic
satire” (which, we trust, was not aimed at the
pretty bcneficiare), “ Give what you can to those in
distress.”
• •
The Minstrels were succeeded by Miss
de Grey’s comedy company in “ Married Life,” as
aforesaid, and the result was depressing. The
piece is less droll than a colliery explosion; and we
consider it an act of considerate delicacy on Miss
de Grey's part to have concealed the name of the
misguided author. Let us state, that the indiffer-
ent success of the piece was by no means duo to
Miss de Grey, who was too busy prompting to be
able to chip in with her own lines, but was mainly
due to the partial ignorance of the text displayed
by the other performers. In the end, the curtain
was lowered just as people were commencing to
wonder what it was about, and for a fow moments
the demon Gloom held the audience in his sombre
grasp. So much for “ Married Life,” of which a
good many of us have had enough in a double
sense! Next came the musical melons—we mean
melange—which being musical was started by a
recitation of “The Uncle ” by Mr. Philip Day.
Until Mr. Day warmed to his work it wasgenerallv
considered by the audience that he was more for-
tunate in his tailor than in his oratory. Being,
however, at an early stage requested, by an angry
pitite, to “speak up,” Mr. Day complied and his
efforts were received with quite as much favour
as they deserved. The next item on the pro-
gramme was “At Last,” to be sung by Miss Nellie
Stewart; and Miss Nellie would, doubtless, have
scored a big triumph had she not had a prior en-
gagement—at the sports. But Mr. W. H. Wood-
fleld filled the gap with a Scottish song of a lugu-
brious nature—the kind of lyric which goes so far
to reconcile one to the nearest Necroplis. Miss
Gracie Plaisted putting in a quick appearance,
just as Mr. w. had concluded his unmelodious
Highland Fling, saved that gentleman, doubtless,
from dismemberment. Miss Gracie was at-
tended by Mr. Luscombe Searealle, who
accompanied her on the piano. The song
“ At the Fair,” written and composed by
Luscombe, was a great success, and both artistes
retired at its conclusion enveloped in blushes and
covered with glory, A great deal of interest was
attached to the appearance of Mr. Searealle, and the
elegance of his “get up” made, it was evident, a
profound impression. Luscombe, though little in
one sense, is great in another, and report speaks
loftily, not only of his “ Estrella ” (which we shall
see on Saturday), but of several other of the scores
which are packed, sardine-like, in his operatic
portmanteau. After “ At the Fair.” we bad a song
and dance by Miss Jennie and Miss Ada Lee. The
impression indented on our minds by this per-
formance was that, though we are quite willing
that Miss Jennie Lee should sing in Sydney, we
would be equally agreeable to Miss Ada Lee danc-
ing in Darmstadt. Miss Jennie looked prettier
than a great many pictures, though we could have
wished she had not been quite so conscious of her
feathers.
* * *
After this, Mr. Wybert Reeve came on, and
made love to Miss Maggie Knight, in “ The Philan-
thropist.” Mr. Wybert Reeved considering his
youth, is quite an adept «t “ spooning,” and the
appearance of Miss Knight was really dazzling.
There can be no doubt Avfratever that, taking her
altogether, Miss Knight is the best ingenue at pre-
sent on the colonial stage. And this is saying a
great deal—for Miss Maggie Knight; though,
whether it is saying a great deal for the colonial
stage is a point upon which our natural delicacy
forbids us to dilate. Then “Jo,” and with Myra
Kemble as Lady Dedlock. Myra has had a
year’s holiday now, and considers it quite time to
return to business. Well, wo think so, too. It is a
long time since we had a year’s holiday, but we
remember at the expiration of that period various
circumstances suggested the advisability of our
return to graft. We can recollect two of tho cir-
cumstances with peculiar clearness. One right
boot, and one left shoe.
* * *
The Misses Lee are, then, off to England,
d ce r/ue Von (lit. This being tho case, it might not,
perhaps, be out of place to recommend Miss Ada
to, when taking her passage on board the boat,
engage one berth for herself and another for her
song-and-danee shoes. The audience, wo may aid,
was unusually brilliant; and it is rumoured that
at the conclusion of the performance, Lady Lof tus,
who was presmt, sent tho vivacious benefi<;iare
round a basket; though, whether it contained fish
or flowers, we are not in a position to determine.
Miss Lee, we may add, has announced her inten-
tion (as if that were news!) of returning to Aus-
tralia; and, furthermore, she states she will bring
with her all the best pieces she is able to secure.
There is something comforting in this. Miss Lee,
however, is favourably situated with regard to
the acquirements of dramatic rarities. She has a
distinguished author on the premises.
* * * *
At the Opera House, Miss Marie de Grey
seems to have conquered without having gone to
the trouble of much stooping; and that the case
stands thus is a feather in the cap of Allison the
sesthetic, for importing that charming lady and
her company. But James has always been cele-
brated for his fine discriminating powers wherever
a question of art has been concerned, and, there-
fore, we who have growing boys and girls (thun-
der! what a price boots are !) are under an obliga-
tion to him of no small dimensions. The ensemble
of the de Grey company evinces, on part of the
“star,” much taste and not a little discrimination.
We are all, of course, liable to mistakes; and once
James fell into one. That was when the ourtain
rose on “Cymbeline, King of Britain,” and Pome-
roy (Imogen) was discovered standing on a ’possum-
skin rug! It is only fair to Jim, however, to
state that he instantly ordered the obnoxious prop
to be removed, and substituted some mats made
of Hawaiian dogs’-tails (a present from King
Kamehameha). “As ,if everybody didn’t know,”
cried the manager, indignantly, “ that Cymbeline
never put up the stuff to start out Captain Cook.
Damme, I’ll have no anacrostics in my theatre!”
There are no ’possum or kangaroo-rugs in “She
Stoops to Conquer:” indeed, thej costumes and
some of the accessories might have been copied
from authorities in the British Museum—as very
likely they were—or else made from designs by
the Hon. Lewis Wingfield, who, next to Leopold
Jordan, is the most versatile man living. He is an
artist, virtuoso, journalist, and dramatist. But
Leopold licks him by two holes—he being, in addi-
tion to what we have quoted, a maestro and an
entertainer.
* * *
Of the acting of the piece we have spoken;
but we forget now whether we mentioned or not
that it was by Oliver Goldsmith. That is the case,
anyhow. Our colonial dramatists are therefore
relieved, at once, from the stigma of having
penned a comedy in five acts ! The latest edition
to colonial literature, “The Philanthropist," you
will remember, is only in three. Talking of the
Opera House, by the way, we might suggest that
the removal ot the sunlight in the roof and the
substitution of additional brackets would be an
improvement. As so many “financial agents”
patronise the dress-circle during the run of
“ beauty-pieces ” it seems unfair on part of the
management to remind them in this world of
what will most certainly be.their lot in the next.
* • • •
Let our tongue follow our ped while we
write about the Circus. That Madame Woody ear
has natural good taste besides equestrian talent is
exemplified by the general get up of the tent,
which is quite an innovation on the stereotyped
equestrian marquee. It is all new and bright, and
the show rattles along at a great rate—both the
clowns, Kusko and Max Wrinkle, mercifully avoid
unfolding theii budgets of " infinite humour ” in
course of the same evening. They don’t wish to
break the hearts of the distinguished members of
the audience who write for the comic papers.
Talking of Max, we will give you a Wrinkle. He
is going to sing a new topical song on Saturday,
written expressly for him by (it is assumed) a sub-
urban alderman who shall be nameless. We trust,
on that occasion, the man in the band who mani-
pulates the trombone will restrain his ardour.
People are fearfully familiar with his notes, and
want to hear Max Wrinkle’s words.
* * *
A greater card, probably, which Madame
has to play on Saturday next, is Donald Dinnie, the
gentle creature who threw Miller over his shoulder
and broke his leg. Donald is ready to meet all-
comers at anything—from tossing the caber to a
Graeco-Roman wrestle. You can have, at his
hands, a broken back in any style you please, both
on the European and American plans. The secret
of Dinnie's wonderful strength has never leaked
out, though there is a rumour in sporting circles
that it is owing to his training exclusively on
snuff. That’s what, you see, in wrestling wouid
give a man strength in his sneeze.
0 9m
The new programme is chiefly remarkable
for the manipulation, by Mr. Equestrian Director
Sylvester, of two wonderful ponies, Duke and
Richmond; and Mias Ruby Scarsdale does a singu-
larly graceful and daring act upon the single
trapeze. The Woodward Brothers, who are
oystered upon the magic ladders, give a fine show;
and all the tumbling—especially that of the Jap.
chap, christened Cooma Kitohi—is llrst-rate. Voild
** • *
Wybert Reeve announces, at the Gaiety,
the last nights of “Imprudence,” and the produc-
tion, on Saturday, of Ouida’s “Moths,” by Leo-
pold Jordan. Similarly with this notice comes the
somewhat remarkable announcement that the
theatre is to let. When we are tired of giving
away our millions in charity, we will take that
theatre.
* * **
The Minstrels oontinue t o draw good crowds
at the Academy of Music. This week a farce by
Sam Keenan has been breakiEg the ribs of the
habitues and the buttons off the waistcoats of the
adipose visitors.
*# * *
It is healthy news to learn that M‘Mahon’s
“ Romeo and Juliet ” combination, with the Irving
scenery, has turned out a success at the Melbourne
Opera House. We really think it istimethe people
showed that they were aweary of jingling hors
d mures, and ready to welcome the legitimate joint.
Mr. Frank Cates is the Romeo, a role which was
“to be entrusted to a colonial actor.” Since Mr.
J. P. West is billed as a member of tho London
Comedy Company, we suppose Mr. Frank Cates is
fairly entitled to be considered a Colonial actor.
Macmillan’s Magazine says that “ Miss Fanny
Reid as Juliet is all that Juliet can be;” but of
Mr. Brian Darley. who plays Mercutio, we can
glean nothing. We, however, naturally expect
some “ wholesome fun ” at his hands before he is
pinked by Tybalt. We notice that the stage-man-
ager is Mr. Braggington—not a bad name for a
modest professional—and that the incidental music
is by Sir Jules Benedict, who, owing to his great
age, was doubtless at one time enabled to tako in-
structions from the author.
" THE POOR PLAYER."
Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession. 1
The orattan Riggs party have taken Bris-
bane by storm, as might be expected after so suc-
cessful a season in Sydney not long ago. Charlie
M Mahon writes to say that he intonds bringing
the Irish comedian back to Sydney after the
Queensland tour, to open here on November Ist.
And this reminds us'that M,Mahon has leased
two theatres lor the Christmas season, that is, the
Hobart Theatre for 15 weeks and the Princess
Theatre, Sandhurst. He is going to play Riggs at
Sandhurst, and is now getting together a company
to open the Hobart Theatre with on the first
night of the Hobart races. And now we
are going to tell you a yarn about Charlie
that hasn’t got around much as yet. Not long
since, and Charlie were travelling together
on the overland route from Sydney. Charlie was
tired, and it being night time, secured a berth and
turned in. Later on in the night, a fussy old maid
from somewhere, got in at one of tho stations and
raised a fearful racket because there was no spare
berth for her. Grattan had just entered the car,
intending to “turn in” also, if there was any
chance; but there wasn't. However, he deter-
mined to help the old maid out if he could, so
approaching her in the politest manner possible,
he said“ Madam, I have just left my berth, as the
jolting of the train made my head ache, and I
couldn’t sleep. The berth is at your disposal.
My little boy is in it now, fast asleep, but
you will most certainly find plenty of room, and
he won’t disturb you.” The lady was profuse in
her thanks, and Grattan retired to the smoking-
carriage. Maybe, you don’t know Charlie
M Mahon. Weil, then, we must tell you that he
isn’t any bigger than his brother Jimmie, and that
Jimmie hides himself under a tea-cup every time
he sees an impecunious reporter coming to borrow
a shilling. Charlie was lying well over to the
back of the berth, and the ancient maid “turned
in ” with her clothes on. Her advent caused
Charlie to groan a little, then he yawned and
began to stretch. “ Lie still, sonny,” said the old
girl, soothingly; “your papa said I might
lie beside you a little while.” By this time
Charlie was wide awake. Turning his bright
grey eyes on the maid he said, sharply:
“Who in the devil are you? Whose papa? I
haven’t any papa in this string of buggies. I’m
Mr. Charles M’Mahon, proprietor and manager of
tho Grattan Riggs Dramatic Company, and if you
don’t get out of this quicker’n greased llghtninir,
there’ll be the dog-gonedest scandal around here
that ever shook the colonies to their centre.”
Then he struck a lucifer. The old maid saw his
whiskers, and, with a scream that nothing else but
the sight of a mouse could have inspired, she
bounded from the bunk bald-headed, leaving her
wig behind. We’re not going to vouch for the
truth of this story, of course, for we’ve forgotten
for the moment just who told it to us. We have a
suspicion, however, that the man, whoever he
was, if not a lirst-elass liar already, was in a fair
way to become one with a little more practice.
The English Wesleyan Conference have
aftain decided that there is a hell—a real, hot,
human grill-room, where live people are toasted
on the coals and turned with red-hot pitchforks.
Several members spoke very strongly in favour of
adnering strictly to the Methodist doctrine on the
subject. Ultimately, the Kev. VV. J. Frankland,
the minister who gave rise to the debate, was made
a supernumerary, and inhibited from preaching in
AV esleyan pulpits. A motion tor his expulsion was
lost—which shows that there is still some little
chance lor the no-hell party.
On Monday evening there was another
meeting relative to the championship imbroglio.
Beach met Hanlan to arrange relative to the chal-
lenge issued by the latter; but the Beach-Clifford
match formed the principal theme of discussion.
Hanian wanted Beach to explain his position. If
he rowed Clifford first, how was he to give Han-
lan a championship matoh, since Clifford might
win and be champion at the time when Beach
would row Hanlan. After a long discussion,
no conclusion was arrived at. We have ar-
rived at a conclusion, however. The very
title of “Champion” is suggestive of chival-
rous conduct. The dealings of Beach and his
backers in relation to Harilan have been the very
•reverse of chivalrous; and we believe the people
of Australia will very soon, unless the Beach party
change their tactics, show unmistakoably that
they are sick of their Champion and of having the
name ot the colonies, lor manly, straightforward
conduct in sporting matters, dragged through the
dirt.


PEPPER AND SALT.
A sohoolmaster at Avenel —a little one-
horse town down South—who was had up for un-
mercifully whacking the back of a scholar, j ustifled
bis action by explaining that “ he persisted in
dinging paper wads at him when his back was
turned.” This is no excuso. We once taught
school out in the “ wilds,” and about every half-
hour had to remove our coat and scrape off the
dried paper wads adhering to the nap. We never
allowed a trifle like this to ruffle our composure-
nary a ruffle; we just kept on wearing that gaber-
A “String-test” Champion.
WHEN DEEBLE PULLS, BEACH PULLS.
dine till it had no nap and the wads wouldn’t stick, j
But when they took to dipping them in mucilage,
we complained to the directors. “Young man,”
said the chairman, “ef you don't like our ways
you'd better hawk your swag and git. Skoolmaster !
Bangs tort skule yer for more’n six months, and
he never said a word agin the wads.” We mildly
sugested that perhaps Mr. Bangs was brought up
to paper wads, and didn’t mind them. “ It ain’t j
no use,” said another director; “ the children hev j
got to be amused.” We protested that there were
other amusemeuts quite as diverting. But the
third director here rose and remarked, “ I puffectly ;
agree with the cheer; this youngster’d better
travel. I consider as paper whds lies at the **ot
ov popi lar edicashun: ther’ a necissary adjunck I
ov the skool systim. Mr. Cheerman, I move and
second that thislyer skoolmarster be shot.” We
didn’t wait to observe the result of the voting.
...
The Herald of Thursday has an article on
Mudgee commencing “Forty Years Ago,” which
is all we have read of it. This reminds us of the
heavy father, in the farce, who, when the young
lady in white muslin and a pink s?sh appears, leads
her down to the footlights, and then placing two
chairs, commences, “ My dear ycuE& lady, it was
just fifty years since when your mother, upon her
dying tel, corflded you to my care.” Then you
know you are “in for it,” and run away to the
circus. With regard to the Herald, however, you
don’t do this. You only send out the bottle and
take up the Protestant Standard. Talking of
the P.S. (to be chatty), it seems, since M’Gibbon
became a cherub, to have grown into a singularly
mild production. Now it is only venomous; before
it used to be bitter. But we suppose Dr. M’Gibbon
can’t help this. It must take up about all his time
to keep his halo on this windy weather,
* • *
The editor of theCooKTowN Independent
gives the gossip of the circles which he so much
adorns in this graceful fashion“ Promotio—
n Bliss has b6en deservedly pro-
moted to be senior-constable. Bliss is happy.
Departed— Gentle Annie and the three French es-
capees leave to-morrow by the Fitrzoy.” Informa-
tion of this kind is what makes the other editor
m ad. He can’t get it. Gentle Annie never smiled
on lnm , and the three French escapees dissembled
under their eyebrows as they passed him by.
Lockup-keeper Bliss, too, knows only the editor
of the Independent. It is natural that Ignorance
and Bliss should be familiar.
* * *
Charles Byron Martin, the Shakespearian
reciter, is making quite a tiiumphal tour through
the country towns. At Tamworth, his recitals
were received with a fury of applause from which
he modestly retired with an obliterated optic aid
a swollen nose. When the recitals were finished,
his tragic face was like an unskilfully prepared
omelette. The audience egged him on all the
,_. ~ ,
time. Charles Byron is probably the only man on
record who has made a success of counUng his
chickens before they were hatched He has had
crowded houses wherever he has performed And
this makes us think that Charles Byron is either a
very clever fellow, who has elected to act the fool
for the sake of lucre, or a born fool, who has made
a very wise use of his folly. A first-class trage-
dian would probably have had appreciative but
scanty audiences, where he has had crowded if
scornful ones. There is frequently much wisdom
under the cap and bells. Ask A. G. Taylor.
* * *
Five little weeks ago, the Adelong Literary-
Institute was started in a blaze of glory. A code
of regulations, as comprehensive as the Justinian
Code and as rigid as the laws of Draco, was estab.
lished. No smoking was to be allowed, and no
drinking. The proceedings were to be carried on
in philosophic calm. Everything from poetry to
politics, from literature to lamp-lighting, was to
be freely and exhaustively discussed. A president,
vice president, secretary, treasurer, and commit-
tee were elected. The first meeting was to be held
a month from that date—that is to say, one night
last week. The night came: the hall was opened;
the hall-keeper lit the gas. Half an hour after, one
* *** < appearaD f* and Bat
down to wait for the rest. In another half hour, a
Becond olficar came , and brQke the Bi)ence - th
hiccup . Then all wag gloom again . Meantime ,
the Prcsident and the Treaßurer were in the back
par , our Qf OQe of the hoteJs j euchre f()r
drinkg> Enter tho Vice . Preßidenti who .. Ha ,..
in a tone Qf Bevere Burprlße . The Preßldent , feebly
attemptin g to hide the cgrdß bebind fl and
finding it a failure, tried a desperate stroke,
“ I have Just come from the hall,” he said, “ and I


gave you up. Take a hand, and make it out,
throat.” The Vice-President fell into the snare-
and sat down to tho game. In a few minute-
there was another interruption. It was the Secre-
tary this time. “Have you been at the hall?”
cried all three together. “ No,” replied the Secre-
tary, with a guilty look. “ Of course, you have
not,” said the President, with some bitterness.
“We were there waiting for you t’ll we were
tired." Then, angrily, “ If this [is what you call
carrying out the regulations, I’d just as soon
chuck up my offloe now as not.” Then, relent-
ingly, “ But* as you’re here, we may as well cut for
partners, and make it a four-handed game.” They
cut for partners, and they made it a four-handed
game. Ten festive minutes passed in this way,
when four flushed committee-men, who had been
mutually improving themselves with whisky,
burst upon the scene. The four superior officers
glared at them with amalgamated scorn, and then
put the crucial question to them, which they
answered with a hoarse but humble negative.
After some cutting remarks fiom the Presi-
dent and the three other conspirators, they
were pardoned, and allowed to bet on
the game. But Nemesis was on their track.
The door slowly opened, and in came a fifth
committee-man. On him the President turned
with savage sarcasm (intensified, probably, by his
having lost two games running), and said, “ So it’s
you, is it, Lord Bacon, eh ? Bagel” (with a sneer-
ing drawl). “ You’re too full of wisdom to hold
any more! You’re running over with knowledge—
and rum— you are! Fou don’t need to learn any-
thing, you don’t 1 Say, here ” (sharply), “ were you
round at the Hall to-night?” “I was,” curtly re-
plied the committee-man; “ and I waited there two
hours for you and the rest of your ” pausing
and looking round at the company, as if in doubt
whether a word could be found mean enough to
describe them, and giving it up at “gang.” The
four oommittee-metn who had preoeded this one
looked at the four superior officers. The Secre-
tary glared at the three. The Vice-President
acowled at the two. And the two were speechless
«s the frozen dead, until the wandering hand of
OUR ARTIST, DURING THE INCUBATION OF
ONE OF HIS COLOSSAL CONCEPTIONS, RE-
CEIVES A SUMMONS TO BERVE ON A JURY.
STRUCK BY AN INSPIRATION HE
AVAILS HIMSELF OF THE MATE-
RIAL AT HAND, AND RAPIDLY
PUTS A “MUG” ON HIMSELF. AN
OLD SUIT PERFECTB THE MAKE-
UP, AND
ON APPEARING IN THE BOX, HE 18 PROMPTLY CHALLENGED BYJ'THE
SUITOR, WHO WANTS JUSTICE. HE EXULTS WITH THE EDITOR.
the President touched the bell, and the landlord
came in to get the names of the drinks. “ Mine-
all mine; boys, this is my shout,” said the Presi-
dent, with a trembling eagerness whioh it was pain-
ful to witness. This evidence of a desire to atone
for his duplicity conquered his soft-hearted
associates at once, and he was pardoned on the spot*
Fired by this generous conduct, he proposed that,
as soon as they had drunk up, they should go
round to the Hall in a body and see who were there
then. The proposal was reoeived with applause*
and they drank up and went round. When they
got there they found the gas still burning, bu*'
only one member ’of the Institute present—the
committee-man who had come In with a hiccup
an hour before, and was now stretched out in a
stertorous slumber with his head on the “ Official
History of New South Wales,” which had been
presented to the institution by -Government a few
days before. He was a gorgeous spectacle. The
ingenious youth of the neighbourhood, led by the
son of the hall-keeper-a juvenile humourist
of the Huckleberry Finn type—had come In
while he was asleep and decorated his coun-
tenance with many and fearful designs in
charcoal, till he presented an appearance which
misrht have been termed wholly of the goblin cast
if it had not partaken equally of the nature of a
nightmare. They shook him by the shoulder and
woke him up. He rose to his feet unsteadily, and
after taking a confused inventory of the company,
began to speak. “ Worshy Preshdnt ’n’ bruzhers
all,” said he, “I shtan pon dignity. Thish nosh
time t’ minsh marrers. I’m f ’ Local Opsh’n, I am.
Gimme nuzher drink.” Then he made a wild re-
volution on his heel, and fell proae and speechless
on the floor. The company looked at each other
for a moment in mute suspense. The President
spoke first. “Boys," he said, “dam Mutual Im-
provement 1 Let’s shake in the hat. Here’s my
shilling.” And in gloomy dissipation and unholy
revelry ended the first meeting of the Literary In-
stitute of Adelong.
* * *
It’s very hard, when we are trying to
scramble humbly along, that little Miller, of the
Coom v Comma can’t let us alone. He’s been a
calling of us names again. We are called this time !
“the champion scurrilous rag of the colonies.”
Now, we have had to refer at times to most of the
papers in the colony, but, Iwhen referring to the
general intelligence of the Press, have we ever in-
oluded the Comma ? We appeal to every self-re-
specting editor in the colony, as to whether we
have descended to that pitch of scurrility.
* * m
The newest discovery is a good one. It is
a receipt for soothing fiend-possessed babies to
sleep. First you get your baby. Then you get
a little trough, into which you put your baby
Over this you place a filter, from which you let a
stream of water trickle on the vertex of the in-
fant’s cranium, and your baby sleeps as long as
you like. Of course it gets water on the brain, but
that is a small matter, as long as you are not dis-
turbed. We fanoy, though, that a better plan
would be to let the water trickle Into the Infant
mouth whenever It was opened to yell. This would
not only silence it, but give the child an early
lesson in self-restraint. It would also be a notable
method for nipping embryo Dan O’Connors in the
bud.
• • *
“ Bah l” said one of his friends to a News’
reporter, “ I consider that article of yours was full
of empty sound.” “ Was it ?” replied the reporter,
bitterly; " so was I when I wrote it!”
• * *
The “Gipsy,” whom we love, writing in
the Down and Gdmtree, which we do not love—
that is, not much, except when it envelops chops—
thus answers a correspondent:—“A widow does
not wear white or orange blossom at her second
marriage.” This is very good as a piece of statis-
tics. But can “ Gipsy ” tell us what a widow does
wear after her second marriage ? We think not.
But we can. Bhe wears the breeches!
• * •
A scientist has found that most men have
an unconscious bias In walking. Not much
science needed to discover this, we should imagine*
Look at a reporter turning a street corner.
Mechanically he diverges into the corner-bar, and
mechanio&Uy he edges round to the side where the
beef and and pickles are. Then, observe a police-
man. Without any apparent effort of will, he will
dive away from the soene of a fight, and come up
sternly to the social surface two streets off’. Even
a parson- walking, to all appearance, the straight
and narrow road that leads to salvation—occasion-
ally angles off when be comes to where the blind
man stands with outstretched hand. This reminds
us of an anecdote concerning a Sydney olergyman,
famous for his moving appeals to the charity of
his congregation when the parsonage kitchen was
in need of a new cooking-range, or the clerical
pony-chaise wanted a new set of cushions. He
was one day accosted by an old cripple who used
to sit on the steps at Hyde Park. “ For the love of
God,” said the cripple, holding out a thin and
hungry hand. “It won’t do, my man,” replied
his reverence, " I’m in the business myself!” You
can believe this or not, as you like, but, if not
literally true, it most certainly Is in spirit. So
there is nothing so fresh about this disoovery of
the bias, after all.
• • •
At a ball lately held in a Victorian town,
In aid of the local hospital, the ladies and gentle-
men present wore—over their other clothes, we
presume, though this is notstated-a pair of sheets
and two pillow-cases. After the ball was over,
these were left as a donation ta the hospital*
Curious form of charity, this. If these were the
days of Congreve or Wycherly, we could make a
very passable joke here. But as they are—thank
goodness!—the days of the Bocial Prudery Society,
you will have to find the joke out for yourselves
• • •
In a burst of unparalleled generosity, the
boss insect of the Armidale Anthill holds out
this incentive to informers:—“ £2O Reward.—The
above reward will be paid to any person giving
information that will lead to the conviction of
anyone removing papers left at the residences of
our subscribers.” We presume he means his
papers. And while he was about it, he might as
well have made It £2OOO, as It would look so much
larger; and, besides, he’d have just about as good
a show of having it oluimed. A gruesome paper is
that Anthill anyhow, and, without Alfred stirs
up his brevity editor a bit, it will run the Nooze
very close for the brilliancy of its charnel-house
wit. Here’s a speoimen chunk: “Now, any man
that mentions either Hanlan or Beach to us again
during the next three months shall have his
Chronicle stopped and will have to take the Ex-
press; and then where’ll he be ?” If our opinion
be asked for. we must candidly confess that hell
can have no terrors for the man that survives the
Chronicle.
* * *
Rev. D. 8. M’Eaohran at the Annual Chris-
tian Conference (Melbourne):—“God and the world
cannot be pleased at one and the same time.’’—
Glad Tidings.
The “ truths ’’ whioh certain holy men
Throw at the sinful throng,
Have so confused us, now and then,
We’ve known not right from wrong;
But, oh! at last our mind is eased,
No more are we perplexed—
It seems that when the world is pleased,
It’s Maker must be vexed.
Then, brethren, therefore, never ohanoe
To wander to the play,
Or mingle in the mazy dance—
But simply watch and pray;
In “bouffe,” or “hop,” ’tlsunderstood,
ff he world takes keen delight,
So such enjoyments can’t be good
For any child of light.
Mayhap, at first, you'll drop a sigh
On reading Mac's remarks:
’Tis hard to have to bid good-bye
To all your little larks—
To everything that makes life worth
The living—all you love;
But, think! if you please friends on earth,
You vex One-up above.
• • *
Says the Rom “An expedition has been
organised to discover and bring to justice the
blacks who committed the recent outrages in the
Northern Territory.” For “bring ” read “send.”
A Maori youth shot himself a week or two
ago on acoount of being orossod in love. This
comes of belonging to an inferior race. If he had
been Caucasian, and oivilised, he would not have
done anything so foolish. He would have smilingly
given up the game to the other fellow, and have
been the brightest spirit at the wedding-breakfast,
and a frequent visitor at the bouse afterwards.
That’s all-but there s more revenge in it than in a
pig of lead.
The Day Dawn claim at Charters Towers,
now that the 40-stamp battery is at work, will pro-
bacy turn out more gold than any three other
mines in Australia. Magnificent stone, sufficient
to keep the stamps going day and night for three
years to come, is already in sight, and it is ex-
pected that the dividends receivable in future by
the lucky shareholders will quite reach £lOO.OOO
per annum. Messrs. Christian and Pfeiffer own
between them seven-twelfths of this splendid pro-
perty. But even the colossal wealth of the Day
Dawn (one of the richest of whose proprietors was
once so poor that when a working miner a few
years ago, he on more than one occasion found
much d ffi 9 ulty in getting level with his tucker
bill) sinks into insignificance beside that of the El
Callao mine in South America, whose fortunate
owners (chiefly Englishmen who reside in London)
crush five to six ounces per ton from a body of
stone so vast as to be apparently inexhaustible,
whoso original £lOO shares are now quoted on
the Stock Exchange at £44,000 each I
Four Frenchmen arrive on the coast of
Queensland in an open boat, and land. After
wandering in search of a settlement they at last
reached Cooktown, where they «re arrested under
the vagrancy Act (though in possession of some
±b), charged with having no fixed place of abode,
and committed to gaol for three months. “ The
only deduction,” says the Cairns Post, “ that can
be drawn from such a sentence is that It is a crime
punishable by imprisonment for any person to
lEud in Queensland without having previously
secured some place of abode; the mere fact of
being able and willing to pay for the same on
arrival being no extenuating circumstance to
urge in mitigation of the offence. If this be a
correct reading of the Aot, then all commercial
travellers who are so incautious as to leave their
steamers before bespeaking an apartment, or all
visitors who are venturesome enough to land in
this oolony, are liable to be arrested and summarily
committed to gaol for three months.” What an
almighty ro a there’d be If four Englishmen land-
ing in (say) China wore treated in anything like
the same sort of inhuman, cowardly way.
BRIEF MENTION.
Much in little: A small-pox germ.
A Bananaland Chinkie lately struck “ile ”
—crocod-ile. He ha < now retired from business.
Never now tell a man to “go to the
devil. That isn’t polite. Refer him to a lawyer.
haB 3 ust completed a statue
called Slumber. It represents a polioeman on
duty.
That everlasting “Queen’s Book ” is to be
SStoffJKr e '
*T^? m .. th^r HEBALD: ~“ Alwa y s at home.
Nothing. We knew he was nothing. But, he
needn’t advertise it. ’
Why are dentists who travels in the coun-
try so generally successful? Because they are
always among tne gums I r
There is no plant so pure and sweet but
certain reptiles will extract poison from it. Parkea
lven of e hta° P 6 ° f N,S * al6B had had enou **
Some people are moving in England for
the employment of the blind as telegraph opera-
defeotfe DOt lmitate US ’ SQd e “P Joy the “
A laudable activity is now being demon-
strated in the erection, enlargement, and decora-
tion of churches. All that is now wanted are
congregations.
“The appearance of dry rot,” we read
“necessitates the laying of a new floor” in a
foentry church There must be a lot of ohurchef
in need of new floors.
U*£? C ti er p k^t^&tr.,i oin Ae to ß f ?;”e a
S°BSZn*°yS>litiSZ. tb ' l,r ' Mami,le: “"•"o
The steward on one of the Queensland
coasting steamers drowned himself the other dav
Even the steward! The provisions must be bad
indeed when it oomes to this. oaa
The Presbyterian belieyes in the cat and
triangle This is only proper It was religion that
invented crucifixion, thumbscrews, stoning? roast
mg, and other means of reformation “ 0881
A “ Beerologioal ” Congress is the inhar
monious title ooined for a recent gathering of
Teutonic brewers at Berlin. There are manv
beerologioal congresses in Sydney. We’ve been
there ourselves several times. Deen
Apropos of certain attempts at funeral
reform, an undertaker remarks that some people
now-adays are so mean that, if they only could,
they d make a corpse walk to the grave.
Week after week new literary ventures
are projected in Melbourne, and week after week
boarding-house keepers go up to Judge Noel’s
Insolvency Court and hand in their books.
We have at last succeeded in discovering
the link which binds the mullin-struggle to the
chapel. Mullins and godliness are the only two
things whioh are sold to the tinkling of a bell.
Says the Echo with a profundity of truth,
“ Our life is in the plastic stage.” Yesl the Echo
is sou and desperately in need of a moulder. We
are right glad she knows what’s the matter with
her.
Newly-married couple, just starting on
their honeymoon: ‘‘l hope wa sha’n’t be taken
for a newly-married couple,” says she. “Oh, no;
I don t think so, my dear, ’ returns her spouse; “ i
never have been before!”
Speaking of a deadly attack from the
Wiloannia paper, the Western Grazier sharpens
U P his soy the and mows this way : “ There is
nothing so well adapted to conceal shallowness as
mud. Why let out office secrets that way ?
From a breezy brevity in that comic jour-
nal. the Government Gazette, we learn that
Mr. Muddle has been appointed clerk to the
Registrar-General's office.” It appears to us that
Muddle holds a monopoly in most of our State de-
partments.
The Cooma town-crier has gone insolvent.
It is rumoured that he got into difficulties through
a partiality for jujubes. The news has cast a
deep gloom over Cooma. It is feared that the
unfortunate man. if not looked after, will stab
himself with a toffee-stick.
“ I say,” said a distracted reporter, darting
into the editor’s room, “ what's the difference be-
tween oviparous and viviparous, as applied to
mammals ? ’ “ Oh, we haven’t room to give a per-
sonal par. to your relations. Go on with that ac-
count of the fire. Hang your mamma.”
An Irish priest of sporting tendencies, who
had eatered one of his greyhounds for a coursing
match, said to his servant: “ Well, Pat, is the dog
in good condition for the matoh ?” “ ’Dade, then,
.A 11 ? 4, Bir .for I’m sorry to say the haste’s com-
mitted sacrilege.” “ Mother av Moses! What d’ye
mane ? “ The saints preserve us, yer riverence,
if the hound didn’t sneak into the chapel and
dhnnk up every dhrap av the holy wather!” *• Is
that so ? Aw well, then he’s sartin to win, for
sure, Pat, the dtvil himself will never be able to
catch him now.”


Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 10th September, 1884.
TENDERS FOR ALTERATIONS AND
IMPROVEMENTS.
rfIENDERS are invited for Alterations and Im-
I provements to the Fort-street Superior Pub-
lic School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Alterations and
Improvements, Fort-street Public School,” must
be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, De-
partment of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a.m., on Wednesday, 34th September, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
“ We (Wentworth Advocate) learn that
whilst Mr. Pegler was driving into town, the tire
of oho of his buggy wheels burst.”: [A late wire, in
response to our urgent enquiry, places us in pos-
session of our usual equanimity. The tire, it is
rumoured in town, is to be repaired.—Ed. B.]
Says the Gundaoai Times “ Ruskin asks
‘ What is there more beautiful than the word
wife ? ’ We should say the wife herself.” We
should say—in the present state of society—the
oook. But it depends a good deal upon whose
wife is referred to. If one’s own, the cook, of
course.
The Newcastle Hekald says, in reference
to a nautical inquiry held lately, that “it was
found that the captain had been guilty of an error
of judgment in standing on the western tack too
long.” We should say so. Any man who would
stand on a tack, whichever way it pointed, is plainly
no sage, to say the least of it.
The Nooze says that the gaol doctor gave
Hawthorn a glass of brandy to sustain him untii
the trying ordeal was over. Hang it, the trying
ordeal was over when the jury found him guilty.
“ Tying ordeal ” would have been a better phrase,
or “scragging process” better still; but the
Nooze is so demnition euphemistic, at the expense
of truth.
The wife of a certain mutton millionaire
recently engaged a “ lady’s maid ” in England.
Next day, the maid handed to her mistress a letter.
“ Marie,” sternly said Mrs. Mutton, “ don’t you
know that letters ought to be brought in on a
tray?” “Oh, yes, madame,” replied the damsel;
‘‘only I wasn’t quite sure whether you knew
about it.’ l — _
A lately presented return shows that the
number of public-houses in the oity of Melbourne
is at present 388, and that, during the past ten
years, the police opposed the granting of a license
to no applicant on the simple ground tha.t his
his house was a brothel only.” This disciplined
delicaoy on the part of the foorce has sent the eye-
brows of the average citizen up under his hat.
Years ago, the spirit of prophecy came on
Boucicault, and lifting up his voice he said: “Egypt
was fatal to Assyria, to the Hebrews, to St. George
who was hung for looting and to Napoleon. It is
the graveyard of the world, and England has gone
there to steal a lot for a quiet family vault. If
we could only get the old man to tip us the winner
of the next Melbourne Cup as straight as the above
appears to be, we’d break the ring and burst UP ell
Sir Salmon Wilson's earthly chances tor that
peerage.
“It is with pain,” says the Wentworth
Ad., “that we are compelled to chronicle the
melancholy fact that a decomposed and very
fragrant puppy has heen lying in Helena-street
for some days. The first news par. apologises for
the late appearance of the paper. Some rumpus
with typos? Cruel, however, to leave the poet of
the journal unburied, and crueller to pretend it
was melancholy. The paper is ever so muoh more
cheerful now.
A Wentworth paper, referring to the fact
that a few wool-barges went dawn the Darling
lately, speaks of it as “this activity in shipping
circles.” This is the spirited sort of journalism
we admire. We are waiting now to hear that
“ public feeling ran high ” in the contests for the
bellmanship—if that office is not, as we suspect it
is, hereditary in the family of the editor. But it
must be. Even he could not be such a vessel of
brass if it were not.
Like Mother Seigel’s syrup, “ this is worth
a trial.” TheJNew York Herald says:—“ In olden
times, an immigrant preferred to remain in New
York and run for Alderman. When he chanced
to fail at this, he went into the polioe force, or
opened up a whisky mill. Now-a-days, however,
he goes West, selects land, and earns his living as
honestly as if he were a native.” To how many of
our comiujar men could we with proiit to this
country say: Go thou and do likewise ?
Speaking of the liquor that was to flow at
the housewarming of a new hotel in Bourke, one
of the local editors says: “w e mean to take an
extra meal of sponge for this occasion. Ill-
natured persons would construe this into meaning
that he was going to sponge more than ever on
“this occasion.’" Which shows how cautious
editors—and especially Bourke editors-should be
in joking about their own weaknesses. It is bad
enough when somebody else does it.
The model human form demands that the
stature should be exactly six times the length of
the foot. From a boot found at the rear of the
News office and forwarded secretly to Professor
Huxley, he has been compelled to consider how to
recast his great system of classification until he
has indisputable evidence of his now having beea
imposed upon. He has written to Henmker Heaton
to know if it is actually true that the men on the
staff of his old paper ever attain the height of ten
feet eleven inches.
It was the annual tea-gathering of the
Duokponds Free Independent Peculiar Baptist
School children, and Tommy -was there. The tea,
if weak, was plentiful; the bread, if but thinly-
touched with “rancid,” was abundant; and the
cake, though weighty, was piled mountains high.
In less than half an hour, Tommy paused in his
avocation. The Rev. Jeremiah Snoggings (Cir-
cuit Pastor) approaohed. “My boy, quoth the
divine, “you don’t get on. My stomach do
ache, sir,” responded Thomas. ‘ Then don’t you
think you had better go home? suggested the
minister. “ No, sir; he’ll have to ache a good deal
more afore I go.”
Mackay, the Silver King, has only got capi-
talised property to the value of 53 millions sterling,
and can, therefore, only spend £o a minute with-
out touching his principal. It is hard for a man to
be hampered in this fashion when there are tons
of thousands of people who eat one meal a day
regularly when they might very well manage to
live on a meal every two days. The selfishness of
the lower classes has always been in the way of
those who would pile up myriads of gold. There
is far too much vulgar hunger among the lower
classes. They should join Sunday-schools, and go
to picnics.
Thank God, the down-trodden Irish race
will now be able to curse their oppressors without
fear of being fined for seditious language. The
Commissioners of National Education in Ireland
have consented to allow the Irish language to be
taught in the National Schools. The patriotic
party see in this only the first of a whole series of
concessions to be wrung from the bloody Saxon.
The next on the list will probably be a permission
to establish dynamite classes in the higher schools.
Teir go Hiffrin osh soh a Thratuir! Hurroo 1 This
is a paralvser for the ignorant hassenach. It takes
Mickey M Girr, of the Freeman, to grasp the full
force of this sentiment.
“My son,” said a venerable man, “ I have
lived amongst men of all grades, but I have never
known one whose intellectual attainments were
anv way out of the common who ever conde-
scended to the use of profanity. It weakens a
statement of any kind-this pitiful, incessant jerk-
imr out of little damns Even on occasions of irri-
tation, it is the more gentlemanly to endure than
to use these vulgar expletives. The son listened
to numerous instances of how great men, in
moments of cruel exasperation, have held their
neace. The son assented to everything, and, when
he thought his humility had sufficiently softened
his parent, he said, " I see it all, father. I will
break myself of the habit. Lend a couple of—
“ Damned If I do,” interrupted his venerable
parent. __
So INSIDIOUS ARE THE FIRST APPROACHES
of consumption, that thousands remain uncon-
scious of its presence until it has brought them to
the verge of the grave. An immediate resort to
Dr D. Jayne’s Expectorant, upon the ffirst appear-
ance of Cough, Pain or Soreness of the Throat or
Chest? would very generally preclude a fatal re-
sult or. in case the symptoms indicate the pre-
sence of Latent Consumption, would tend to sub-
due the violence of the disease, and thus materi-
ally assist in prolonging the life of the patient.
Use the Expectorant therefore when you take a
Cold, and by so doing prevent the necessity for its
use in more dangerous complaints.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Oorreipondentt who give neither name nor nom-de~
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munieatiom noticed.]
“S.N.” (Wattle Flat): What do you mean
by this, when you speak of Mr. Hussey's song ?
“ Then came a yell enough to waken the seven
railway sleepers. I had been trembling on mjr
chump all day, that knocked me clean out of it.
It’s pretty easy to see you’ve been having a rain-
fall in your district, and you are temporarily re-
lieved from carting round the water-hogshead— j
“ J.R Writing elegies for condemned murderers j
is your forte. JW hat do you, con you, mean by send- <
ing us such drivel as this ?
“ My worthy gent, so very free,
A married man you, sure, should be;
Alone, and yet so full of joy,
Ready with women’s hearts to toy.
If your character can be judged by your verse, the
woman that gets you will be happy. So will some
other man.. .“Moira”: Your verses were correct
enough, but they lacked fire. So we burnt them.
“ W.J.D.” (Shellharbour): You ask us if we
are willing to accept “satires, poetry, wit ana
humour 99 from you* Wo arc not. \ our genius is
too wholesale for us. But we can give you a tem-
porary engagement at tank-cleaning any time you
are in Sydney “ G.A.” (Auckland): Yes;
Hanlan did play with Trickett after he had the
Australian beaten, in their first match..... A.B. :
We don’t run a private enquiry office. But as
you're such an old subscriber, we don t niind tell-
ing you that the rumour that John Davies has
joined the Hibernian-A.-Catholic Y.M. Society is
a stupid canard. So far as we can learn the only
“real presence” he is ever likely to believe in is
his own—except, of course, you spell it pre-
sents,” which is quite another thing — Sphynx :
Doggrel “W.H.M.” (Bega): You want our
opinion. It is this. Your sketch is very credit-
able, but—it is not adapted for us. We daily i eject
things of real merit simply because they don t fall
properly into line with our scope and tendencies....
“ W.J.8.”: May find room...“ Radical : Good,but
just a little too—well, irreverent Friend :
You are no friend of ours to send us such stuff....
“Glenbrook”: “Cats” don’t rhyme with at-
tacks” though they make them—nor kitten
with “sitting.” Give poetry best and stick to
dam-sinking....“ Straight lip : We have stated
over and over again our opinmn onsweeps and
those who run them. Avoid both ... One of
Two ” • There is a wholesome odour of the barri-
cades and the bonnet-rouge about your letter.
Well, if you’ve suffered under British law, as you
say you nave, ive don’t wonder at your sentiments;
but they are too gory for u5....“C.R.”: You ask
for our opinion on your verses. Well, here it is.
The jingle is there, but the spirit is entirely want-
ing. You write for instance :
“ When silly women give a handle
By which the lying tongues of scandal
Will rob them of their virtuous name,
They’ve only got themselves to blame.”
Why, we’ve seen as good as that in the—the
Nooze. There “Medicus”: What you say is
reasonable enough. But, as you are, no doubt,
aware, it is quite on the cards that the whole ques-
tion of vaccination may have to be fought over
again. At any rate, it is by no means satisfactorily
settled yet ...“J.J.”: Thanks. Next week—
“ Stranger ”: 8o you think France the Babylon of
the Apocalypse; that there will be a great Euro-
pean war; that France and England will join, and
that the German and American boys will knock
the stuffing out of them. Well, ’tis a pretty large
order. Do you know, we always fancied tbe Pat-
mos crank had Tipperary in his eye when he was
working) .off that “ Revelation ” order. Mais,
n'importe. We’ve said hard things ourselves about
John Bull and his ways, but, crede experto, though
the old chap appears to be getting a little stiff
in the joints, and hard of hearing, be can stand a
lot of licking yet...“ J.M.T.”: We may make some-
thing of it. In its present shape it is useless. But
put away your Macaulay, take down your Buckle,
and cease to wonder at priestly cruelty and un-
charitableness “Quidnunc”: “What will be
the result of the present struggle between peers
and people over the Franchise Bill ?” We suppose
you’ve heard of gammer Partington and her mop.
and of George Stephenson’s cow on the railway?
We hope |the Lords (how the word sticks in our
throat!) will tight to what the Rum people call the
" bitter end ”—be more mulish than they were 62
years ago. Then there 11 be a chance of sweeping
them and theirs into ignominious oblivion for ever-
more....” Vox”: What is our raison d’&trc? Why,
to support the Church and make life enjoyable to
smug rascaldom, of course —just like other papers.
As if you didn’t know. .“Mechanic”: You think us
an authority on the theory of flight. So we are.
But there are various kinds of “fiight.” If you
mean that of birds, you are on the wrong tack
altogether—hopelessly wrong. Until you quite
ignore that fatal word “ buoyancy,” you’ll never
solve the problem....“ Pourquoi”: For really lucid
statements of the present European outlook, you
must go to the country press. Now that civilisa-
tion is being pushed so rapidly forward, the only
people able to treat the subject exhaustively ap-
pear to gravitate towards Cooper’s Creek and
the overland telegraph line “W.E.'“: Thanks...
“Topsv”: Pleasant enough reading fora “family
magazine,” but not at all in our line—“Kiama
Ghost” (Euston): A fabulous being who is said
to have fired an empty gun at the still emptier
head of a Kiama J.P. Better write to Sir ’Enry
himself for full particulars...“ Surveyor” (Cooma):
Not enough vim in your last. Truth is not always
stranger than fiction: hence the statement of the
Eerson referred to, that the Mayor, aldermen, and
e himself are liars, lacks interest. Look up your
time-payment Bible, and you’ll find King David
was of opinion that “all men are liars;” and if he
didn't know, who does?
Mr. J. A. Brittn, of Nourea, has handed the
Wellington Gazette tho following:—“ A most
extraordinary freak of nature has occurred here
in the shape of a well-developed double heifer calf
of a roan colour, having two heads, six legs, one
neck and body, and minus a tail; the two heads are
equally plaoed on the neck, and the four hind legs
with two udders are in a most perfect form and
size. To all apppearances she must have been
alive to within a short time of her birth.” The
editor of the Gazette informed Mr. Bricn that he
would cheerfully take in all about the legs, &0., in
the interest of science. But as far as the spare
head was concerned, speaking personally, he was
“full UP.”
In the Dublin Zoological Gardens, a line
lioness has eaten her own tail. One day she re-
moved twelve inches of this appendage, and after
au interval renewed her repast and swallowed
more. The tail has entirely disappeared, and the
animal has now commenced to eat one of htr fore
paws. The poor creature will probably be de-
stroyed. Another wild beast item is that at Saint
Etienne a tamer named Agop, while performing
at an exhibition, was attacked by a tiger, and a
terrific struggle ensued. The audience, panic-
stricken, rushed for the doors, when Agop suc-
ceeded in releasing himself, and in spite of his
wounds, entered the lion’s oage to conclude his
performance.
Talk about enterprise and push—well, a
party who writes in a holy orders sort of fist ob-
serves that the proprietor of a first-class hotel be-
tween 10 and 1000 miles from Sydney, beiDg fired
with a burning desire to train up a child in the
way he should go, dispenses with the services of a
billiard-marker by employing his own son (cct. 11),
at a salary of nothing a week an 4 find himself, to
mind his billiard-room at night-time. This works
two ways, because the picturesque ohat of the
pool-players, as the night wears on and the unlucky
are being skinned, improves the youngster s mind;
while the fact of his being kept out of bed till the
wee sma 1 hours appears to act just as beneficially
on his body, and so works out the old Romans
idea of mens sana in corpore sano. A second tame
is now added to the hotel, and this is under the
care of the stable-boy, except when the horses
have to be bedded down, and then the Celestial
cook looks in and yells, “ Gleen upon led; spotee
have it in han’. Littee gingee beah fo’ me, sab.
For a high-falutin’, iiapdoodlin’ style of
diction, Sir George Bowen takes not only the cake,
but the whole bakery, including the horse and
cart, and the baker’s wife, from all-comers. This
is the sort of swill he slung in his official despatch
on the death of the Duke of Albany:—“My Lord,
I have the honour to report that the intelligence
by telegraph of the death of His Royal Highness
Prince Leooold, Duke of Albany, caused universal
sorrow in this community. 2. I transmit here-
with, to be laid before Her Majesty, copies of the
address of condolence to the Queen, unanimously
adopted by the Legislative Council of Hongkong.
3. as 1 write, the batteries on shore, and the En-
glish, French, German, Italian, Russian, and Ame-
rican men-of-war at anchor here are flriDg each
thirty (30) minute guns in observance of the funeral
of the Duke of Albany, which is being celebrated
at Windsor on this day. It is a grand spectacle in
the magnificent harbour of Hongkong, whioh re-
calls the beauties of Corfu and of Spezzia. The
mountains of the neighbouring mainland of China
are re-echoing the roar of the European and Ame-
rican cannon—a grand requiem for the lamented
Prince in this extreme outpost of the British Em-
pire in the Far East,—l have, &c., G. F. Bowen.
Who wouldn’t be a dead prince for the sake of
such a grand, such a glorious requiem ? And how
sheepish feter must feel when he gruffly asas i the
prince who he is, and the visitor proudly replies:
“Me! —l’m the distinguished party in whose
honour all that firing is going on below there. Be
so good as to inform the seraphim I’ve just arrived,
and I’m quite displeased to find there is no one
here to meet me.” ;And then, again, how consoling
it must be to the bereaved ones to know that the
grand spectacle recalled the beauties of Corfu and
Spezzia 1 Nothing in the way of sympathy has
been more tender and delicate since the day when
a widow stood by the grave of all she loved, and
so touched a big-hearted old digger by the violence
of her grief, that he edged up to her and said -
“ Missus, I’m blarsted sorry for yer trouble—l am
indeed. An’ if it would do you any good, I’d like
t’ leu you a five pun’ note tilt y’ gets another hus-
band.” Some one ought to shave Sir George’s
head, and then soak it for a week in the magnifi-
cent harbour of Hongkong.
Before and since Tom Hood drew croco-
dile tears from sham-repentant old with hi«
incomparable “Bridge of Sighs,” newapaoera--
especially penny newspapers—have shown a pen
chant for waxing pathetic, in police reports, unon
the subject of “ unfortunates.” It isn’t often, cer
tainly, that knights of the shorthand give an®
practical proof of sympathy by forwarding the
price of a par. to the object of their commiseration
still they do express themselves very feelingly at
times. The Melbourne Herald, for instance
brought a lump into our throat the other day with’
the old, old story—“No roof was left, and she
slept in the open air, under the precarious shelter
of timber staoks, or crawled, perchance, under
some old shed in a back yard. Such tales as this
are told almost daily to the magistrates, and the
frequenters of the court even receive them with
hilarity. The unfortunate woman, still almost
young, was sent to prison under a brief term
What remains for her but the river?” Now’
we’ve read worse bits than that. Any reference
to the river always fetches us, so we tried to turn
out a poem about the girl who so amused the fre-
quenters of the Melbourne police court. We
couldn’t get further than two verses, but, such as
they are, you might find time for a tear over ’em—
Poor wretched wreck, with hair unkempt
And face with filth bespattered—
Though now a jeering court’s contempt,
Bhe ones was fair and flattered;
For fellows do flatter when women are young,
With a smiling face and a lying tongue,
(Other poets upon the same subjeot have sung)
And prospects bright get shattered.
Of beauty, friends, good name bereft,
No refuge, save the river,
For creatures such as she is left,
It only costs one shiver—
One muttered prayer—one bold plunge in,
And then, good-bye to the world’s dull din,
And a wasted life of shame and sin,
(For which, may Heaven forgive her!)
One good point about our humorous visi-
tor, the versatile variola, is that it is no respecter
of persons, but, like the gentle rain, it droppeth
alike on the just Milburn Creeker, and the unjust,
Bawbath-deseorating publican. Neither is it af-
fected by the influence of filthy lucre, either— and
in this respect, how superior is even the small-pox
to the majority of our pulpit-thumpers—for it
calls to the prince of the royal house, and catches
on to his azure blood with the same easy familiarity
that it drops on to Lazarus as he lies in the gutter,
and makes rock-salt of himself, as it were, for
every dog that passes by. Thoughts like these
have recently struck one Dr. Gairdner, and being
a pugnacious sort of party, the worthy doctor at
once struck back, and in defence of the impartiality
of variola he has traced its record in connection
with the history of a few royal houses. Thus, of
the descendants of Charles I. of Great Britain, he
finds that of his forty-two lineal descendants up to
the date of 1712, five were killed outright by small-
pox, viz., his son Henry, Duke of Gloucester, and
his daughter Mary, wife of the Prince of Orange
and mother of William III; and three of the chil-
dren of James 11., viz., Charles, Duke of Cam-
bridge. in 1677; Mary, Queen of England, and wife
of William 111., in 1694: and the Princess Marie
Louise, in April, 1712. This, by the way, does not
include severe attacks not fatal, such as those
which scourged Queen Anne and Good King Billy
of glorious memory, whose face looked as if it had
been made red-hot and was then danced upon by
the hob-nailed boots of a thousand savvies. Of
the immediate descendants of the B tyne Water
hero's contemporary, Louis XIV. of France (who
himself survived a severe dose of variola), five
also died of it in the interval between 1711 and 1774
—viz., his son Louis, the Dauphin of France, in
April of 1711; Louis, Duke of Burgundy, son of
the preceding, and also Dauphin, and the Dau-
phiness, his wife, in 1712; their son, the Due de
Bretagne, and Lous XV., the great-grandson of
Louis XIV. Among other royal deaths from
small-pox in the same period were those of Joseph
1., Emperor of Germany, in 1711; Peter 11., Em-
peror of Russia, in 1730; Henry, Prince of Prussia,
1767; Maximilian Joseph, Elector of Bavaria, De-
cember 30, 1777. We thus see that nothing is so
hopelessly bad that a good word cannot be said of
it in some way or another. Even Sir ’Enry Parkes
is spoken of by the Distress as a “ really distin-
guished man!”
It was a grand procession, a suggestive
spectacle, and it is repeated every day of the week.
It never inconveniences the public, and it never
blocks up the streets. It consists of two-wheel
carts, four-wheel carts, light carts, heavy carts,
drays, waggons, and all sorts of conveyances,
moving onwards in the same direction. All heavily
laden, burdened with the products of every coun-
try under the sun ; done up in all sorts of pack-
ages, bales, cases, casks, crates, tierces, tubs, hogs-
heads, bundles, parcels, and boxes ; nailed up,
tied up, stitched up, fastened together in every
conceivable way; of every shape and of every
size. All with the same object in view ; all gra-
vitating towards a common centre, steering a
never-deviating course for the same haven—all
wending their way to where anxious crowds are
waiting—all bound for Anthony Hordern and
ons’, Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*
It was in Berlin. A biting Baltio breeze
swept through the cheerless streets, piling the
dead leaves in tiny mounds. Those whom business
compelled to be abroad appeared mere animated
masses of warm clothing wobbling through the
bleak thoroughfares. The statesman of the cen-
tury—the puissant Bismarck—was sick, and as the
weary hours crept by, the attentive watchers by
his bedside saw with sorrow the traces of suffer-
ing in his pale face, marked there the fre-
quent expression of pain which even his iron
will was unable to entirely subdue. “ How
these batrachian-eating Frenchmen,” he observed,
with some of his old levity, “will rejoice
when they hear of my sufferings. But,” with
fierce energy, “we may again leave our cards
at Paris without being invited.” The door opened
noiselessly and the Princess stole softly in. In her
hand was a yellow-covered book, which had come
by the evening post. It was the “ St. Jaoobs Oil
Family Calender” for 1884-5. Seating herself by
her suffering husband’s bed-side, and enjoining
silence by a gesture, she began to read in a low,
distinct tone. The patient’s pinened features re-
laxed, and something like a smile started from his
chin and flickered over his fine, firm face. His
devotsd wife read on. The smile on his face
merged into a laugh, the laugh became a grin, the
grin a guffaw, and a shout of boisterous mirth at
the reading of a laughter-provoking excerpt from
the S. M. Herald threw the famous statesman
into a profuse perspiration, and ended his suffer-
ings. This is true.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, la.*
Skinny Men —“Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debllitv At druggists. Moses Moss
and Co., Sydney. Agents.
The pleasure of bathing is greatly in-
creased by mixing in the bath half or even a
quarter of a bottle of Murray and Lanman's
Florida Water Instantly, the whole atmos-
phere of the bath-room is as fragant as a blooming
flower garden, the mind becomes buoyant, and the
body emerges refreshed and strengthened.
MELON-CHOLY PATE.
[?]JIM: YOU [?]AR ONE, AND OUT W ITH [?] OUT THE PROT."
HE DID, TOO.


Special Exhibition
OF
Biismis.
g a (i
kialttiMßtWs
BV
THE BEST AND MOST RELIABLE MAKERS.
DAVID JONES & CO.
will Display In their Showrooms,
363 GEORGE STREET,
during- the present week,
A Magnificent Assortment of
FOUR-POST asd HALF-TESTER BEDSTEADS,
in Black and Brass. Block and Niokel, Solid
Brass, and Favourite Colours.
The Goods are of the
Most Improved Construction,
HANDSOMELY DESIGNED,
RICHLY ENAMELLED.
THOROUGHLY STRONG,
and the different parts fit accurately together.
jy THE PRICES RANGE FROM *2 to *2O,
the value being the best procurable in the colony.
Heads of Families, Hotel Proprietors, and those
about to furnish, should inspect these goods, and
compare the style and prices with those obtain-
able elsewhere.
PRICE LISTS OF REDDING, CURTAINS, DRA-
PERIES, and Designs for the ss me, supplied
on application.
Children’s Co!s
in Now Shapes and Styles, all sizes.
Bassinettes
in New Designs, Trimmed and Untrimmed.
Tucker's Camp Bedsteads
Tucker's Folding Bedsteads
Tucker's Chair Bedsteads
The Raglan Folding Bedsteads
Patent Universal Chair Bedsteads
Folding Iron Stretchers
Invalid’s Bedsteads
Special
Display
this
Week.
DAVID JONES & CO.,
Bedstead and Beddinj? Warehouse,
363 GEORGE STREET.
EXHIBITION OP BEDSTEADS.
368 GEORGE STREET.
D
AVID JONES and COMPANY
W
ILL DISPLAY during the present week
MAGNIFICENT ASSORTMENT OF
F
OUR-POST and HALF-TESTER
B
EDBTEADS.
H
ANDSOME DESIGNS.
R
ICHLY ENAMELLED.
T
TIOROUGHLY STRONG.
F
ROM £3 to £2O each.
B
EST VALUE PROCURABLE.
H
EADS of FAMILIES invited to inspect.
H
OTEL PROPRIETORS invited to inspeot.
T
HOSE FURNISHING invited to inspect.
C
HILDREN'S COTS, all sizes.
B
ASSINETTEB, Trimmed and Untrimmed.
T
iUCKER’S CAMP BEDSTEADS.
T
UCKER’S CAMP FOLDING BEDSTEADS.
T
UCKER’S CHAIR BEDSTEADS.
R
AGLAN’S FOLDING CAMP BEDSTEADS.
LATENT UNIVERSAL CHAIR BEDSTEADS.
F
OLDING IRON STRETCHERS.
'NVALID’S BEDSTEADS.
W
OVE WIRE MATTRESSES.
EXHIBITION THIS WEEK.
DAVID JONES and CO.,
Carpet and Floorcloth Warehouse,
No. 363 GEORGE STREET.
rr
MANLY
' v
T^a
\
/*
y
SS
4U
°a
#a
v#
Yto
/V
(20W
i>.\:<?M:
m
in r
r
M
Minified WiWmiajt asd Ocean View Lots.
Remarkably Liberal Terms. Torrens’ Title.
Important Clearance Sale off Books and Stationery,
In order to make room for Large Shipments of NEW GOODS, to arrive.
EDWARD R COLE
has determined to offer his Extensive and Vain-
able Stock amounting'to over £20,000, at Cost Price.
For Schools, Schools of Art, and Libraries, this is an opportunity which rarely offers, and their
attention is especially invited. The stock comprises
Books in all departments of Literature
Mechanical Books
Engineering and Scientific Books
Medical Books
School Books
Albums
Illuminated Musical Albums
Scrap Books
I Writing Desks
I Inkstands
Bibles, Prayer Books
I Church Services and Hymn Books
I Easter Cards, Birthday Cards
I Plain, Fancy, and Mercantile Stationery ol'all kinds
I Account Books
I Letter Presses and Letter Books, &c.
The public are reminded that this is the most valuable stock of Scientific Books in the colony.
OF GEORGE AND KING STREETS.
ISOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
EDO
ZJ
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
THE LARGEST, CHEAPEST, AND MOST VARIED ASSORTMENT IN AUSTRALIA.
3109 ‘U OUVMQ3
respectfully announces that ho purposes offering his stock of
FORT Li AIT ALBUMS, amounting in value to over £3OOO, at
LONDON WHOLESALE PRICES.
prises all the latest designs in bindings and illuminations, and is second to none in the
here. PORTRAIT ALBUMS, bound in Leather, Persian Morocco, Velvet, Russia, &o
Portrait Albums, from Gd. to £15155. each
Easel Portrait Albums
Musical Portrf.it Albums
Pocket Portrait Albums
Gem Portrait Albums
Square Portrait Albums
Automatic Portrait Albums
Magnit'viiiatPortrait Albums
CabinetMtjpgrait Albums
i Oblong portrait Albums.
Revolving Portrait Albums.
TZ. COX
CORNER OF GEORGE AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY


MONEY AND TIME SAVED.
Messrs, thomas henderson and co
Agricultural Machinists, of 89, 91, 95 Eliza-
beth-street North, Melbourne, furnish us with
the following combined statements received from
some of their employes, under date 26th Januarv
1884 :-Mr. William Downes says : “ With pleasure
1 bear testimony to the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil
as a household remedy. One application I have
found to totally remove the pain and marks of a
severe bruise, and I believe it to be an invaluable
remedy for sprains. Since experiencing its good
qualities I have recommended it to several friends
for neuralgia, soreness of chest, &c , and in everv
instance it has given lelief.” Mr. w. a. M’Horg
accountant., contributes the following statement •
“ I sprained my ankle very badly. I tried the
efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil. My ankle wasgreatly
swollen and painful, but after the first application
ta , e had sensibly decreased and the feeling
of stiffness entirely gone out of my leg ; in fact
a week’s daily application of the Oil effected a
complete cure, and I had not to remain awav a
single day from business. (A friend of mine, after
seeing my ankle, prophesied three weeks’ deten-
tion at home.) I believe the Oil to have great
curative power for sprains, and that it possesses
tbe properties claimed for it.” Mr. R. w. Johnson
fitter, sprained his ankle severely. He apDlied St’
Jacobs Oil with the most beneficial results. In less
than a week it has made a perfect cure, and he
was not absent from work for a single dav He
has also used it for toothache, whioh it cured
almost at once. He recommends it to all sufferers.
Mr. John M Intyre, carpenter, in our employ,
speaks of its virtue. ... Having sustained n
severe fall on my back, I was, through the injury
half paralysed, I tried St. Jaoobs Oil, and after
using two bottles I found muen relief. My arms
which I could not raise above my head after the
fall, I oan now use freely, and can go about mv
wdrk as well as ever. I look upon the Oil as a
most valuable medicine. U 1 as a
A SOLICITOR’S SOLID STATEMENT.
M. E. Benjamin, Esq., of the firm of Messrs
Hart and Benjamin, solicitors and Commissioners
for Australasian Colonies and New z23Ed“SSSJ
the following statement“ Pacific Chamber*
jftB? ol M n e a ' 0 8 « re Melbourne, 11th December,
1883 Elliott Bros.—Dear Sirs, I have
P T l ®“^ e A? I te8 r ti £ rin » to the remedial effects
of St. Jacobs Oil. I have used it in a case of a
severe sprain, and also for rheumatic pains and
its application has always been attended P by almost
immediate relief.—l remain, dear sirs, yours truly,
“ M. E. Benjamin.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index pasted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general. 1
RACING.
Liverpool J.C September 30.
Geranium R.C September 33 34.
Wild River J. C September 34, 35.
Sydney Turf Club September 36.
Tamworth It.C Sept. 30, Oct. 3.
Camden and Campbelltown J.C October 3.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,16.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C November 9.
Murrumburrah R.C November I<*.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 30,31.
Narandera T.C November 37,38.
Viotoria Amateur T.C November 37, 38.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 36.
Rosehill R.C December 27.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.2B, March 6, 7
AQUATIC,
N.S.R.C. Regatta September 27-
N.S.W; Rowing Association Regatta.... October 18.
Canvas Dingy Club Ist. class raoe October 18.
Matterson v. Kemp October 18.
Solomon v. Kemp October 18.
Double Bay Regatta,. November 1.
Hanlan v. Clifford Febuary 7,
Beach v. Clifford February 28.
ATHLETICS
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Hand leap.. . September.
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Beaoh and party have invented a new style
of sliding for rowing men. Backsliding.
A. G. Steel’s average against the Austra-
lians this season, up to the time the mail left, was 55
for ten innings.
“ Ulyett,” says an English sporting writer,
“ unfortunately hit several of the colonials while
bowling in the big match.” Humph I
An earnest champion of oockflghting boasts
that he oould take one of his cocks and out off
both legs and wings, and the bird would fight then!
Mr. Jeffreson Lowndes resigned the cham-
pionship amateurship of the Thames, whioh was
won by Unwin in the raoe for the Wingfield soulls.
Mr. H. H. Shields, who has won the British
twenty miles amateur bicycle championship, did
the distance in lb. 22min. SOsec., though the ground
was bad.
The Melbourne Sportsman stated last
week that a match was all but fixed up between
Col. Ike Austin, of the flowing locks, and “Pro-
fessor” Payne, who dubs himself the English
“ Champion Fancy Lightning Rifle Shot.”
It is suggested that Courtney, when he
dies, should be buried “ in four cross-roads, with a
stake in his inside.” It will be the first stake he
ever had a right to, and It should be a satisfaction
to his spirit to know that even that was obtained
“ on the cross.”
That infallible aquatic authority, the Rum
man, says E. A. Gaden, of the S.R.C., weighed on
Saturday 20st. 81b. When he stated in a previous
issue that light refreshments would be served out
at the Branch, he must have been misinformed.
The liquor must have been about as heavy as Mr.
Gaden.
The Normanby Bicycle and Tricyole Club
have issued the programme for their first Inter-
colonial meeting, to be held on the 10th November
next. The event of the day will be a three-miles
handicap bicycle raoe for a first prize of 50 guineas,
and second and third prizes of 35 and 10 guineas
respectively.
By cable we learn the St. Leger Stakes
was run on lOtta September at Doncaster, with
the following result:—Mr. Vyner’s The Lambkin 1,
Duke of Westminster s Sandiway 3, Mr. tt. Peck's
Superba3. From the latest London papers Superba
ruled first favourite at 5 to 1, Sandiway was quoted
at 100 to 9, and The Lambkin 100 to 8
He was the last man in, and his side wanted
only two runs to win. He was told to be sure and
take a good block. The excitement was Intense.
He measured his distance carefully from the
wicket, and then, holding up his bat, glanoed at
the local umpire and said, “ How’s that? ’ “ Out!”
replied that functionary, amidst the cheers of the
locals.
The Burwood footballers succeeded in car-
rying off the Gardiner Cup this season, having lost
only one match— v. Wallaroo—out of eight test
matches. In writing this par. we anticipate the
decision in the disputed match, Burwood v. Uni-
versity; but the Union oannot in justice do other-
wise than give their flat in favour of the Bur-
woods.
When the All-England team beat the
Australians in July, the London Entb' Acte pub-
lished a cartoon representing the British lion, bat
in band, saying to the Australian kangaroo (whose
faoo was a caricature of “Spoils” and whose
pouch was filled with “ gate money ”): “Well, you
don’t mind a urood licking, so long as you get the
gate-money, do you ?”
It was announced in a London paper of
36th July that Miss Agnes Beckwith would attempt
to swim the English Channel during the second
week in August, and that she would be accom-
panied by Toms, the pilot who bore Captain Webb
company. Miss Beckwith thinks she can swim the
distance in sixteen hours, and as she has ere now
remained in fresh water thirty hours, it is con-
sidered that she should succeed.
A big crowd, including the big-bug visi-
tors, attended the meeting or the Mudgee Tatter-
sail’s Racing Club held in celebration of th« Rail-
way opening. Fleetwiner defeated Aurora by a
neck for the Opening Handicap ; Wanda carried
off the Ladies’ Bracelet; Little Dick appropriated
Tattersall's Handicap, Fleetwing, half a length
away, second, Gasket third; Btar made an easy win
of the Prince of Wales Stakes: Councillor won the
Shorts, and Granny finished the day’s sport by de-
feating Wanda for the Terminus Handicap.
It seems Courtney’s excommunication was
a bit of a “ get up,” after all. John Teemer has
written to tne American Press, stating he never
authorised anyone to sign his name to tne protest,
nor did he know anything of it until he read it in
several publications. He says: “ I never had any-
thing to do with Mr. Courtney, and have no reason
to complain of or protest sgainst him. lam will-
ing to row any oarsman In the world on reasonable
conditions, and bar no one from competing against
me, in either a match Or regatta.”
Tbe “six starters or no race ” was carried
out by the Suburban Bioycle Club on Saturday;
but why this idiotic rule is adhered to is beyond
us, unless it is to block any particular rider who
may have the race well in hand, as was done on
one occasion. The riders who start to make up
the half-dozen merely dash away for anquple of
laps, or, in some esses, a few vardis, with the
chance of interfering with a bona fide competitor;
and on Saturday one of the “ make-ups ” started
in his shirt sleeves, with a hard black “ masher ” on
his head—a discredit to himself and the committee
who tolerated It.
The Sydney Rowing Club had splendid
weather for their regatta on the Parramatta River
last Saturday. E. P. Simpson won the senior soulls
after a grand race, C. Dobson pulling a plucky
second; the maiden double sculls fell to 8. Tiley
and C. U u \au; the senior junior eights was woa
by G. G. Forster, C. Thompson, E. A. Gaden, W,
Kloster, M. Kemmiss, J. D. Webster, R. T. Moppett
(stroke); M. Hart won the Junior sculls in out-
riggers; and the race for scratch eights was an-
nexed by J. G. Kennedy, W. Capper, E. A. Gaden,
T. B. Gaden, J. E H. Kennedy, C. Dobson, W.
Kloster, C. A. Bros (stroke).
Edwards, the pedestrian, when seen in
London a few weeks ago, said he was endeavouring
to arrange terms with Harry Hutchens, the Putney
flyer, to go to Australia and run Malone. Failing
business In that direction, he would return to
America and clinch several offers for good matches.
Edwards remarked, among a variety of other
things, that when in Australia he used to think
that Miller would have a good chance against
Sullivan. But now, having seen Sullivan, he
strongly advises the Victorian, if he is desirous of
taking a trip for the benefit of his health, not to go
near tbe Boston man’s country.
Mr. Bevill had back luck in his starting at
the Association Ground cn Saturday I When tr> log
to start the second beat of the 150 yards spin, the
p stol was the difficulty to get off, not the men.
The murderous weapon missed fire a couple of
times, and it was only with the assistance of a by-
stander that Mr. Bevill persuaded it to go off. A
wax match cracked off between a couple of
“gibbers” would be no small improvement on tbe
tool now in use. But, joking apart, It seems a
funny thing that a revolver and some good ammu-
nition cannot be obtained. It will be remembered
a dispute ocourred some time back in connection
with a race started by a snap.
The spirited owner of the Wingadee can-
not witness the running for the Victoria Derby
and the Double Bay Regatta, as the meetings
clash. We deeply sympathise with him, and do
not think the Double Bay Regatta committee
oould have had the! best Interests of their meeting
at heart when they refused his offer of a ten-
guinea trophy, ii they altered the date of their
regatta. However, the skipper of the Wingadee
has not lost all heart just yet of attending the two
events, as we understand he is about to open
negotiations with the V.R.C., with the view of an
alteration of their Derby fixture. What induce-
ment he intends to hold forth has net transpired.
The many colonial friends of Herr Young
Dutchey will be delighted to hear that he defeated
Mr. Jack Denny, an American gentleman with
pugilistic tendencies, on sth July, at Stookton,
U.S. They will also be pleased to learn that he did
the triok with five-ounce gloves. And this re-
minds us we are in for some lively flstio work in
Sydney. The Viotorian authorities put a stopper
on the proposed bout between Farnan and Jaokson,
so the men agreed to box in Sydney, Farnan to re-
VALUABLE SUGGESTION FOR UTILISING THE PRESENT EXTREMELY GRACEFUL
FASHION.
ceive £35 oxpenses. The bout is fixed for Monday
next, and, judging by the lead obtained by Jackson
In the early part of their first set-to, we should not
be surprised, should the Sydney man keep his wits
aboutnim, in seeing him sing a gentle lullaby to
the Cabbage-Garden masher.
The Canterbury Park Race Club held a
meeting on Saturday l»st, but owing to a fatal
accident during the running for the Railway Han-
dicap, the last race was not run off, the various
owners in the event agreeing to hand over the
irize to the unfortunate lad Hanley’s mettaer.
Fernlea defeated Ellington by some three lengths
for the Spring Stakes, Pirate falling about the spot
Sarabanda afterwards came to grief la the Railway
Handicap. Desmond made an easy win of the
Selling Race; Espeigle defeated Desmond by a
couple of lengths for the September Handicap,
Mars third; and Phyllis won the Railway Handi-
cap, Bonnie Bee second, and Friendship third.
Rounding into the straight, Sarabanda, with Hux-
iey up, fell, aud Albert Victor tumbled over her,
killing his rider (John Hanley) cn (he spot, Huxley
escaping with a shaking. This race brought the
meeting to a gloomy termination.
A smart idea of Mr. Watson’s for tbe pub-
lio to subscribe £5OO for Hanlan and Beach to row
for. We don’t suppose, though, the public will
see it in quite the same light as Mr. Watson, And,
by the way, Harry Hutchens, of Putney, champion
sprinter ot the world, has offered to run anybody—
it does not matter who—from 50 yards to 410 for a
trophy or a staae. Can’t we raise a paltry £5OO
for the purpose of backing Malone against him ?
We really think Mr. Watson should take this
matter in hand, just to uphold the “ honour of the
colony," for we never knew that Mr. Watson was
more intimately acquainted with] aquatics than
pedestrianism till HaDlan’s advent in the oolonies.
And, en passant, it is wonderful the orators who
have been brought prominently into notioe over
the wrangle about the aquatic championship—men
who previously were never heard of in the boating
world. But talk is cheap, and a vastly different
matter to planking a portion of tbe £5OO proposed
by Mr. Watson. When that comes on the board,
we think the majority of them will “ pass.”
Tbe career of St. Gatien, wbo divided tbe
Derby, after a dead heat with Harvester, affords a
remarkable illustration of the vicissitudes of a
race-horse. In addition to doubtful and un-
fashionable parentage, he was such a mean, com-
mon-looking yearling, that his breeder ordered his
trainer to sell the colt by auction during one of
the autumn meetings at, Newmarket, soon after
he was broken. The colt had previously been
offered for sale privately, at £lOO, to several people
at Newmarket, including Hayboe (Mr. Rothschild’s
trainer), who consented to take the yo ingster in
liquidation of an account of £5O, belt declined to
give “century.” As Sherwood had only two or
three horses at the time, he consented to train the
colt at 30s. per week, instead of the standard charge
of 505., on condition that Major Bruce made It up
to him If St. flatten turned out well. He won all
the three raoes for which he started at two-year-
olds, and as his owner continued anxloul to sell,
St. Gatien was purchased by Mr. Hammond for
£14,0(50 during the winter, with the contingency of
another thousand If he turned up trumps.
We have often drawn attention to the
falling off In the physique of the rowing men of
to-day, from the Garvans, Clarks, Crooks, Parks,
and others too numerous to mention, of days gone
bv, but, bad as the comparison is, the rowing men
of the day show out, at all events in the upper
works, just as boldly over the average run of our
bicyclists; and the inference naturally draws It-
self that the bicycle develops the lower limbs at
the expense of the all-important chest, arms, and
shoulders. On Saturday we were struck with the
appearance of nearly all the wheelmen. Legs of
an abnormal size to the sunken cheat, lemonade
shoulders, and arms that tbe average girl would he
ashamed to show without a covering. What fine
men there were could be counted bn bur fingers,
and in nearly every case they had at one timb or
another gone in for some other sport—this one on
the water, that one in the football ot cricket field,
and so on through the feW well-formed ones, al-
most without an exception. For a sbt man it may
not be So bad, but for an unformed yolingster to
be bent nearly double-, with all the work codling
on the lower limbs, we maintain-, must be most
injurious; and we do no think the hicycle, In place
of the bat, the boat, on the football field, will ne
the means of raising the coming generation, in
point of physique, to the standard or the past.
The so-called intercolonial Meeting of the
Suburban Bicycle Club, held on the Association
Ground on Saturday last, was a fenare ana a delu-
sion, and the Suburbans oannot coriiplain If their
future meetings are looked Upon with distrust by
the general pub'lq. Counter attractions in every
direction no doubt had a great effect on the attend-
ance, and we venture to say the stiff and ridicu-
lous charge of a shilling at the gate had no small
say in the limited number on the ground. If
Smifkins likes to take his girl and her new Spring
turnout on to the lawn, let him pay for the luxury
by all means; but, in our humble opinion, six-
pence is ample for a long-suffering public to
“part” for admission to a portion of their own
domain. However, we suppose this sort of thing
will go on till the athletic clubs raise a ground of
their own, when we fancy the bar-rooms, billiard-
tables, and highly-paid secretaries will have to
undergo a little retrenchment. C. W. Bennett
won tbe live miles Intercolonial Challenge Gup
as he liked, Wood second, and Thurlow third; and
the Champion also appropriated the mile ;tricycle
race from scratoh; H. M. Evans carried off the
three-mile Club championship; W. H. Chapman,
60 yards, won the mile maiden handicap. Tne 150
yards spin resulted In a win for G. F. Williamson,
9 yards; W. H. Chapman, 170 yards, annexed tne
mile open handicap; A. Edwards won the mile
without handles from scratch; E. Henry (10 yards)
defeated Lenane (4 yards) for the 300 yards flat
race handicap; and Gf. T. Allwood pulled his fair
nominator through for tbe two miles ladies’ nomi-
nation.
We notice Mr. Deeble poses in his famous
letter to the Nooze as the “Guardian of the
Champion,” but it strikes us if the Beach back-
sliding be a specimen of bow he intends to carry
out his guardianship, the sooner Beach moves on
his own hook, or Clifford beats him, the sooner we
shall have a Champion who is prepared to hold the
title without calling in the aid of a lawyer to
clench matters, so that no loophole is left for com-
petitors for the proud affix of “ Champion of the
Universe ” to crawl out of after pledging their
word to row on a certain date. It is only going
over old ground to say that Mr. Deeble, at the
meeting when the match was fixed up for May,
went out of the room and returned with Beacn,
when the Champion stated bis willingness to row
on the date named; but from the haggling about
the deposit money, and the humiliating amount
insisted on by the Beach party, it would seem they
had au Idea of drawing out if the match did not
suit them, articles or no articles. And when Mr.
Watson proposed that a Nautical Almanac should
be obtained to settle disputes about the tide, Mr.
Deeble was most emphatic in stating the matter
should be settled then and there, or no match
would be made. Beach was the first to state be
would not be bound down not to row in the mean-
time; and had it not been for bis broaching the
“ soft £5OO ’’—which, by the way, we do not think
he will find quite suoh a “soft” affair—we feel
confident Hanlan would never have given a se-
cond match a thought. Beach was perfectly jus-
tified, before pledging himself to row In May,
to insist on his six months' grace, though it looked
to outsiders like a case of “funk;”as we daresay
ninety-nine per cent, of people out of the colony,
after reading the little episode re the Tomki, be-
lieved he won it on a iluke. However, having
passed his word, he should have stuck to it, articles
or no articles. While the straightgoing manner in
which he refused to row on the Nepean was fresh
in the minds of the general public, he had the
sympathy of the crowd with him, and the alleged
manner in which Trickett had to chase the Cana-
dian about for a second match was another great
point in his favour; but sinoe bis, or, rather, his
bAoker’s, backsliding, Hanlan stands forth in hr,u
relief as the injured individual. Under the h-
cumstauces of the big- subscription proposed to kb
raised for Beach, We fancy he wofild have dona
well to remain the. idol of the masses till ths
‘ sugar ” had rolled in. It is hard lines for IHh
Champion to be in the hands of such bad adf iaeb,.
as we don’t suppose he had any, idofe to do wißl
the backsliding than the Kiama Ghost; but we ark
sadly afraid Beach will find the subscription u a ?
a great deal affected by the change of ciroura.
stances. 01
Have you ever gone out to lecture in a
SM27 yoU have ’ y°u will remember
that the thing that troubled you most was to licHf
on a subject that would intefe-t yoUr small
audienoe. When you told your trouble to an e*a
perienoed friend, he said: “Keep to whisky* or
If you Stray from that, stlbk to themselves. Don’l
let them out of your mind’s eye for a minute *
we are able to approve Of this advicb; “THa
Vagabond ”isOnto it flow, and is doing vety e il
through the, Victorian bush; He does Stfay ftoHl
whisky, Certainly; But then Tie Sticks closely tri
Cannibals and Cdnvlcts.” That just takes thfc
whole floor. e
Eoclesidstio tdotipUS at GouitJufri, poiise;
quent upon the Angliban Synod having decided
that the newly finished St Saviour’s Ga medral
must be reserved for purely Cathedral purposes
(whatever they niay be), and iti no wise made uSo
°f as the bhurch of St. Saviour’s parish—a decision
which we reckon muSt make St. Savioiir laiijrH
in hid lawn sleeves, if he Sports Such raimfent ifl
Heavenly plabes. It’s a decision, ttioiiah, that
doesn’t, make InPunlbent Puddloombe laugh, we
can tell you. He’s just mad, and announces set:
vices in the parish schoolroom. The joke is that
the parishioners of St. Saviolir’s parish enntri’
buted largely towards, the ejection of the, fabri b
that now hipstn’j; bp pesecrated by parochial serA
vice, bUt must.be devoted to canonical mifiinerv
and cathedral ritualism. y
Tom Huggins runs a whisky-mill at
Bourke. Nothing particularly interesting in that
you will say; plenty of those kind of people rivhr
through the countiw. Well, so there are; but
they re not all like Tom Huggins, and that’s why
we want to tell you about him. You see, he’s a
very easy-going sort of galoot, quiet and unas-
suming, and as harmless as a mad dog. It’s not all
beer and skittles running a hotel in a country
town, either, especially in the North-west. The
customers are sometimes too frisky to be pleasant
and have a playful habit of wanting to wade in
gore—a propensity which, if not checked, is liable
to run riot with the feelings of those unsophisti-
cated children of the back-blocks, and is calcu-
lated to cause a lot of trouble. Well, once upon a
time, one of the roaring “ ringers ” of a shearing
shed was on a bit of a bender at Bourke, and when
he bad hoisted in a plentiful supply of snake-juice
he started round to find some foeman worthy of
his steel—one that could stand up long enough to
be knocked down comfortably, a man that could
take a lot of belting. “ None of your crawlers
for me,” he would cheerfully remark, “ but a regu-
lar ring-tailed roarer thatcan hit like a entire ”
So he strolled down to Tom’s hostelrle, had another
turn at the fighting rum-cask, and then started to
look up a row. He heard Incidentally In the bar
that the landlord could “slog” a bit, and he in-
wardly resolved that he’d give him a turn. And
then he proceeded on a regular tear round, mak-
ing things lively for the bar bummers, so that
Huggins had to put in an appearance to calm
things down a bit. “ Oh, you’re the bloomin’ man
that I want!” yelled the shearer; “ you’re a smart
to stop this kind of fun, ain’t you ? I’ll soon
fix you up; so put up your props.” “Don’t be a
fool,” rejoined Huggins; “you’ll only get Into
trouble by kicking up a row here, so I’d advise
you to leave it alone.” “No bloomin’ fear ot me,”
retorted the bushman; “ I’ll look out for that, and
have plenty of sleep, and I’m going to knock the
knobs off you, old sort.” “ Well, if you’ve set
your mind on doing so,” coolly remarked Tom, “I
suppose you must have your way; but, you see, if
we get eiogglng each other here, it’ll ruin mV
business and the ‘traps’ will be down on ub
besides. Now, I’ll tell you what I’ll do; I’ll
put the horses in the buggy, and we’ll drive
out a few miles In the bush, where he can
have a good quiet time, free ftom interference or
interruption.” This arrangement didn’t quite Buit
the shearer, but finally he assented, and the pal*
drove! gaily away, to the extreme disgust of the
onlookers who considered themselves badly used
In tbe affair. Tom’s confident and cool demeanor
during the drive was not at all reassuring to his
belligerent companion, who began to think that
he hadn’t got such a good thing in hand after all
So when they arrived at the convincing ground
Huggins jumped out of the bugs-y, and was busy
securing the horses, when his opponent thinking
that Tom would be easier to taokle after getting a
lick of a spare splinter-bar under the ear, pro-,
needed to put bis thoughts into exeoution. finding
the weapon at hand in the buggy. But Huggins
saw the move, and in lees time than you could
oount, he landed the back-blocker one “under the
jaw,” that made him see several particular de-
scriptions of stars, which he followed up by a series
of hard hits that had a very damaging effeoton
the frontispiece of his opponent. When the fun
was over (it didn’t last long, by the way), the
shearer looked as though he had accidently fallen
into a threshing machine with a powerful steam
engine at the other end of it in full swing and
when they returned to the city in the buggy, his
face was so artistically decorated in colours that
his mates had some difficulty in recognising their
erstwhile boon companion. Since then, whenever
the noble bushmen want “ divarshun ” thev don’t
look up Tom Huggins for it.


A PRETTY PACE.
What is more to be desired by a young lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to sooiety
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and eur
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
A young lady In one of our pro-
minent institutions of learning:, who
was a great favourite, not only
among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
ailment, failed to afford relief A
friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. Sne
made trial of ir, and, to her great
joy, found a decided improvement as
the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
sible to say too muoh in praise of that
food old standard remedy, Emil
rese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
foul bieath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
ordered stomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
Wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
The People Want Proof. There is no
medicine prescribed by physicians or sold by
druggists that carries such evidence of its success
and superior virtue as Boschee’s German Syrup
for Bevere Coughs, Colds settled on the breast
Consumption, or any disease of the Throat and
Lungs. Any person afflicted, can get a Sample
Bottle tcs od. and try its superior effect before
buying tnercgular size at 3s. 3d. Its wonderful
cures are astonishing every one i hat uses it. Three
doses will relieve any case. If you have a Cough
or Cold that will not yield to other remedies try
German Syrup and you will be surprised at the
result. It has cured many cases of so-called Con-
sumption whioh doctors had given up. It is sold
by all Drpggists in the Civilized World.
Political
Points
The Tory newspaper Press held a conven-
tion the other day in London. One of the editors
present asked the leaders of the Conservative
narty. who were present, what could be done in
the way of subsidising the party's organs, as there
«as not a large demand for Conservative news-
papers. This matter was, of course, not alluded
to by the Tory prints, but the London Echo got
hold of it, and made immense capital out of the
incident.
Parnell says that five bills relating exclu-
sively to Ireland have been rejected during the
present Parliament by the House of Lords, The
London Echo remarks that “ the Peers never pass
an Irish measure willingly, unless it be a Coercion
gill: then they are never backward. Nearly every
vear since the Union they have passed a Coercion
Xct. Between the years 1830-80 they passed forty-
eight of these Acts. In some years they passed
two or three. They have been as active In sanc-
tioning coercive legislation as in rejecting every
measure intended to correct abuses.”
The London correspondent of the York-
shire Post writes:—" The condition of the House
of Commons is at present simply disgraceful.
Practically the Irish members have taken posses-
sion of it, and they keep the House sitting until
3, 4, and 5 o’clock every morning in order that they
may malign as many publio servants as possible,
and prevent the voting of any money.” Granny
should certainly engage the Yorkshire Post’s
London correspondent to supply her columns with
a monthly screed. He is evidently a Jingoistio
fraud after her own heart. One weuld have
thought that honest Englishmen would have felt
a deep sense of gratitude to those Irishmen who
against Bureaucratic influence had wrought suc-
cessfully to secure a purification of the British
Civil Service. But the Yorkshire pudding-head
can only see a maligning of publio servants in an
exposure of catamites, and Granhy endorses his
view.
Paris Figaro makes a sensational proposal,
to the effect that France and Germany should
shake hands, and make oommon cause against
England. It is not long Bince the Kreuz Zeitung
suggested that all the nations of the Continent
should band themselves together, under the hege-
nomy of Germany, to combat the growing pre-
dominance of Great Britain all over the world.
The Cologne Gazette says: “In academic dis
oussions amongst us, there is perfeot agreement
that a Franco-German alliance, open, honest, and
above-board, would be an ideal state of which we
are only wont to dream in especially beautiful
dreams. A Franco-German alliance would mean,
for both nations, security against all attacks what-
soever, and, if we liked, mastery of the whole
world Nothing would be hailed in Germany with
greater jo/Shan an alliance with our old foes.”
Yet England has been absolutely suckling these
Germans. There can be no alliance between
France and Germany until the generation which
remembers Sedan has passed away.
Japan can now sing cheerily after the
noble words of Johnny Manners,
“Let arts and learning, laws and science die,
We’ve got once more our old nobility.”
Yes, the Government of Japan has just issued a
notification rehabilitating the nobility. At the
Restoration, over a decade ago, the whole body of
nobles were theoretically extinguished; they were
deprived of their titles, and became commoners—
wealthy ones in most instances. This state of
affairs has now been altered. Th ere are again to
be princes, marquises, counts, viscounts and
barons among the Japanese. The following is a
portion of the imperial rescript:—“The high-born
descendants of illustrious ancestors, who have
achieved great and noble deeds, are the lustre of
the State, and I recognise that» it is fitting that
especial honour should be confet Ted upon them, in
token of the consideration in wl aioh I hold them.
It is no less fitting, that part Icular honour be
shown to those oivii and mili'sary officers who
signalized themselves while supi porting me in the
restoration of my rule, and th at similar distinc-
tions be conferred upon them likewise. [Here is
the raison d'etre of the retrogressive move.] For
these reasons, I hereby decree the establishment
of Five Orders of Nobility in my Empire, that I
may manifest my recognition < tf eminent services
to the State.*’
Thus Professor Thorold. Rogers on the
House of Lords:—" The Lords, have never on one
occasion when the country •'fas unanimous ever
vindicated publie liberty or taken guarantees
against arbitrary government» but have almost in-
variably been timid in the de: fence of publio right,
though eaver and unscrupulous in maintaining
and enlarging the privileges of their own order.
. . . The most oherished p rivileges of the peer-
age, their incontestable rigl it to a writ of sum-
mons, the heritable character of a writ of summons,
the incapacity to surrender a peerage, are self-
assertions unwarranted by positive law and con-
tradicted by numerous prt cedents. . . . The
traditions of the English peurage Hre every way
disastrous. The order is protected against its own
vices by secret and misol devous conveyances
which often give an appear ince of opulence to
members of the body, who are all the while im-
poverished, and who general Jon after generation
defraud their creditors. Th e existence, even in a
moderate degree, of a paupe r section in the House
would be a serious scandal, and, in consequence,
families are bolstered upbyi irivate Acts of Parlia-
ment, and even by sinecut e offices. . . . The
institutions which protect Er glish nobles assist the
survival of the unflttest. . .. . They have never
helped to bring the English people out of Egypt
and tho house of bondage, atud he would he a very
false priest, indeed, who ascribed such a mission
and such u function to thw golden calf of the
English race. . . . The Cabinet is not only the
best second chamber devisable, but the only se-
cond chamber which is necessary.”
Since Graham Berry laid the foundation
atone of a new Harmy “barracks,” weird and
wonderful rumours have been floating about the
political atmosphere of Melbourne. Not to keep
you longer in suspense, then, the name of Balling-
ton Booth is bruited abroad as the coming Premier
of Victoria. No one knows exactly how the thing
is to b 3 managed, but the general notion is that the
Loard will bring about a dissolution of the present
Ministry, and that the Harmy vote—which, at the
rate Salvation is spreading in Victoria, may be
expected to comprise two-thirds of the roll at the
next general election—will be reserved for sup-
porters of a Booth-Berry coalition. Anyway, a
catastrophe is hanging over the Cabbage Garden.
Service deals in whisky, and Graham has taken to
dealing in Salvation. Well, the two won’t mix at
all, at all. Booth distinctly states that the dearest
desire of the Harmy (next to gathering in the
pieces) is to destroy the devil’s agent, “ Drink,”
and as Graham states that “ the army will, while
working on the present lines, always have his sup-
port,” people are justified in anticipating a speedy
split, and looking hopefully for a Hallelujah
Cabinet. No man can serve two masters; there-
fore, as the Chief Secretary has given his support I
to the Loard, and the Loard has (presumably) in- f
formed Booth of his objection to wine merobants, h
Graham a" d his oolleague must part company for ll
ever. That’6 sound logic enough. Then the ques-
tion arises as to which of the twain shall still grip
the reins of office, and defy the French. The
Harmy vote will decide that question, and it's good
long odds that before the year is out every sitting
of the Victorian Legislature will be inaugurated
by a “knee-drill.” Shout Hallelujah!
In the chapter on “The management of
Land and of Capital,” in Mommsen’s “ History of
Rome,” you will find these words—words which,
it seems to us, are pregnant with suggestions and
warnings for Austiallan politicians:—“ The whole
system was pervaded by the utterly unscrupulous
spirit characteristic of the power of capital. . . .
Pastoral husbandry was practised on a far greater
scale than agriculture. . . . When tho small
holdings ceased to yield any substantial clear re-
turn, and the farmers were irretrievably ruined, it
was merely a question of time how rapidly the
lands of the Italian farmers would come to be
merged in the larger properties. . . . Special
circumstances tended to favour the growth of
pastoral husbandry as contrasted with agriculture,
although the former was far more injurious to the
State. An estate under cultivation, while not
demanding the presence of the master constantly,
required nis frequent appearance on the spot,
whereas an estate under pasture admitted of un-
limited enlargement, and claimed little of the
owner’s attention. The growth of pastoral hus-
bandry was favoured also by the occupation or
the domain land: as the portions so occupied
were ordinarily large, the system gave rise
almost exclusively to great estates. ....
Industrial art remained comparatively unde-
veloped. . . . The spirit of the capitalist pene-
trated and pervaded all stations, and the Govern-
ment began to become one of the enterprises of cap-
italists. . . . Civil equality suffered a severe blow
in consequence of the line of social demarcation
becoming more and more distinctly drawn be-
tween the rich and poor. Nothing more effectu-
ally promoted this separation in a downward
direction than the rule that it was disgraceful to
take money for public work. . . Industrial art,
which ought to have held the highest place, in
fact occupied the lowest. Commerce flourished,
but it was non-reciprocal. . . The deep-rooted
immorality, which is inherent in an economy or
pure capital, ate into the heart of society and of
the commonwealth, and substituted an absolute
selfishness for humanity and patriotism. . . An
insane legislation laboured to compel the invest-
ment of capital in Italian estates. Thus there be-
DOUBTFUL.
TRAVELLER (to intelligent native): “CAN YOU TELL ME WHERE I CAN FIND A MAN OF
THE NAME OF BARKUS?”
J.N.: “WA-ALL, NO. CAN’T’ZAC’LY SAY. HE DIED LAST NIGHT, BUT WHETHER
THEY’VE PLANTED HIM YET OR NOT, I CAN’T SAY. MEBBE THEY MIGHT TELL
YOU SUTHIN’ ’BOUT IT UP AT HIS HOUSE, A LEETLE FARDER ’LONG THE ROAD.”
gan aeuntpaign of capital against the small farmer
system. . . The capitalists bought up the farms,
and converted them at the best into estates man-
aged by stewards and wrought by slaves. . . If
a Roman senator possessed four such estates as
that described by Cato, tho same space which in
the olden times when small holdings prevailed had
supported from 100 to 150 farmers’ families was
now occupied by one family and about 50 for the
most part unmarried slaves,” &c.
* * *
Paris Figaro says that Ferry, in making
war upon China, is but carrying out the designs
of the first Napoleon, who always referred to the
great unknown empire of China as “The Land of
the Future” .. .The Irish National party mean to
run 90 candidates in Ireland at next election... .The
Chancellors of Russia, Austria, and Germany, ac-
companied by their respective Eaisars, are to
meet at Warsaw, moat suggestive of spots for such
a gathering of high legitimates “ the ‘ holy ’
band who, bolder even than he of Sparta’s land,
against whole millions panting to be free, would
pass of right-line tyranny.”
Of a man recently discovered in the Lach-
lan, with his feet tied together with wire, an iron
bedstead attached to one of his legs, and his he id
bound in cloth, Granny’s own Hillston correspon
dent remarks, with a prudence that must com-
mend him muchly to his employers, he “ was
found under rather suspicious circumstances.”
We should like to know what would constitute
■very suspicious circumstances in the opinion of
this Hillston wombat.
The shareholders of the Melbourne Milk
'Company worked up an instructive wrangle the
other day. All about their sanctimonious cows.
“ You ordered the milk to be watered,” inveighed
one malcontent. “Now, now, here’s how toe cat
jumped,” put in the wily chairman; “as a rulo,
the aunday supply of milk is rather snort, and the
manager told tne Prahran foreman to put a little
water in the cans to meet the demaud. We didn’t
do it, hadn’t the remotest notion of doing it, and
wouldn’t do it, as we hoped to be saved, for ihe
purpose of increasing our profits. No, no; it was
simply and solely to accommodate our customers,
seeing that the Sunday supply generally foil
short.” Someone interjected that water was
placed in the cans on other days as well, but this
the directors repelled as a calumny. It would
seem the cows are mostly of Sootch extraction and
have gone over to the Sunday closing party.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSSED.
Now that the Supreme Court haa ruled
that no land owner can go beyond the medium
line of high-water mark and turn people off the
harbour foreshores adjacent to his property,
public steps should oe taken to get removed the
numerous walls, fences, etc., wherewith private
individuals have blocked progress along the said
fore-hores beyond the said line.... Four Eg' ptians
with their families recently arrived in Hong Kong
en mute, as thev thought, for Sydney, having been
told by a ship-chandler at Port Said that the fares
they paid him for passages to Hong Kong would
frank them to Sydney, which was but a short
distance further on. One of these poor fellahs had
mortgaged his two elder SQns to raise his passage
money. Of course, the ship-chandler is a Greek.
.... Miss Chicken chaperoned the siDg.e girls who
arrived per s.s. Australasian, the crew of which
craft declare that Mother Chicken’s cares make
better pets that Mother Carey’s chickens.Un-
English,” how we hate that word; yet whenever
’tls used by one of the Jingo crowd, it almost
invariably defines a sentiment, a principle, or
a course of action broad, reasonable, and just....
Fur is a skin that has changod its animal—which,
for a definition, isn’t fur out .. The cyclists’ motto:
Tri before you bi....A labourer, asked by his
Eastor if he used the Lord’s Prayer, leplied that
e did, and proceeded to display his acquaintance
with it by particularly enlarging upon the beauty
and force of the second clausa. * Holloaed be Ihy
Name 1” “ Don’t you see, sir ? Wo are to holloa it
on the earth as the angels holloa it in Heaven ! I m
fond of singing,” he added, reflectively....* New
South Wales,’ yells the Hum, “can boast of the
best batsman, the best bowler, and the best sculler
in the universe;” but our contemporary, with rare
modesty, shrinks from adding, “ and the champion
journalistic facing-two-ways acrobat who can
balance himself on a fence agin any darned poli-
tician that ever was hatched.’ .... Mimosa, of
the Cootamundra Pinkstone, sings sadly to his
missis, ”My girl, the liar you love is cold
a remark wtiicfi Quite fetches us f with its
tender blending of modesty and truth. Yes. ..
The idea of holding a “ federal ’’ encampment at
Albury, of the Victorian and N.S.W. Forces, was
first suggested in the columns of The Bulletin...
Brisbane’s Figaro is consumed with Podsnappery.
In the Frenchman, the German, the Italian, or the
Portuge®, it can only perceive a low down,
pionard-handling, cut-throat assassin and knifer,
in baneful ignorance of the fact that the one thing
most needed by the far too British white popula-
tion of this continent, is a moderate blending with
non-British European strains.... Every time you
strike a Bryant and May match, reflect that the
article represents a fraction of the-blood and tears
expended in the production of the myriad boxes
turned out by the manufacturers whose fame is
world wide—the blood and tears of the starving
wretches who have to make the boxes for 2J4d.
per gross, finding their own paste, in order that
the lucky Co. may blossom into millionaires..
The motto of the Suburban Times is “ celebrare
domestica facta," which being interpreted means a
silly bray re local occurrences —Passenger; “You
can go a little faster, coachman; I am not ner-
vous.” Coachman: “ Worry likely not, but I am.”
PassBenger: “But I shall just miss my train.”
Coachman : “My ’oss don’t like trains, and he
wouldn’t put hisself out to catch one for the
world ; in fact, he’s like me, he prefers to miss
’em.” A municipal council clerk has gone the
way of all flesh, and his accounts have been found
—yes! right. This is an item so unusual that we
gladly chroniole it The peculiarity that strikes
one most in the Nooze's more sensational tele-
grams from foreign parts is that the thread of fact
ou which they are strung has invariably had time
to reach these parts by way of ordinary post
Mortality of the globe, 97790 per die’m.
• * •'
The last winner of the Queen’s Prize at
Wimbledon is a barber. Strangely enough, he
went right through the competition without turn-
ing a hair During the last seven years, "les
marchands de New York ” have made purchases
of modern European pictures to the extent of
over ten millions sterling —At latest, the cholera
scare had made Paris a desert. There were about
seven people staying at the Grand Hotel and an
equal number at the Hotel Continental.... In July,
there were in the London hospitals between 1152
and 1368 cases of small-pox per week! The
Welsh Judges have been receiving numerous
pairs of white gloves. Taffy, it is plain, is no longer
a thief ... On dit that “ General ” Booth has boug ht
the Welsh estate of Patti. Both buyer and seller
are in the show business, and the “ Gener.il ” has,
perhaps, been the more successful Horatio
Brown, in his “ Life on the Lagoons,” says, with
reference to the Lottery in Venice, that “ when
Victor Emmanuel died, nearly everybody played
the numbers (in the ‘Book of Dreams’) tor king,
death, and the man’s age. And oddly enough the
lerno [a prize assessed upon three numbers] was
Irawn. It was a serious blow to the Bank; and
.vas followed by another, for exactly tho same
thing happened when a few weeks later Pio Nono
lied.” “It is a sign of the times (says the
A.thenasum), that a paper by a young lady,
On the Blastopore of the Newt,' was read
it the last meeting of the Royal Society,
the writer being herself present.” A pre-
cedent has been at last found for Mr. Brad-
laugh’s abortive attempt to take he oath in the
House of Commons. It was a Scotch deacon who,
one Sabbath, had sat upon an ants’ nest and re-
tired by himself into the middle of the road. It
he didna’ swear," said one of the elders, who
watched him from the footpath, “ he was certainly
aiming at it.”.. .The real and personal property
within New York city to-day is sixty-one and a-
half million dollars more than it was at this time
last year. The actual valuation is £280,000,000
He was a Hebrew lad, and while on his way from
the races was run over by a van. As they picked
up the pieces and put them in a cab, the wounded
man opened his eyes, took stock of the damaged
limb—which more than made up in area what it
lacked in thickness—and feebly murmured “ Drive
to Snipson’s.” And they drove. What the trouser-
monger heard on appearing at the cab door was,
“How much will yer knock off for making thoth
panth with only one leg ?”.... A man who stole a
yacht has gone to gaol for a year—
•• Now, no one need be less surprised than lie;
He stole a yacht, and found himself at sea.”
.. ..In view of the cholera, they are trying to purify
the Thames—by throwing into it daily, at the spot
where the two great sewers discharge, 140 tons of
chloride of lime, costing £0 per ton, to say nothing
of the labour involved. Figure that out for a
year The Manchester Guardian understands
that the English Government is prepared to pay
the sum of £150,000 for four of the Duke of Marl-
borough’s Blenheim pictures, or £70,000 for the
“ Ansidei Madonna ” alone 1 So far, £24,000 is the
greatest price ever paid for a picture. That sum
was given by the French Government for a
Murillo, originally stolen by Marshal Soult in the
Peninsula War. . ..French Senate proposes that
one-fifth of the recidivistes to be transported
should be sent to New Caledonia, the remainder to
Cayenne; and, in making the suggestion, alleges
that the present prosperity of Australia is largely
due to early convict settlement. French senators
may be pardoned an error to which the osten-
tatious purse-pride of not a few Australian ab-
sentees—the heirs of patriots who left their
country for their country’s good has not a
little contributed Mary Clara Dawes, first M.A.
of “Stinkomalee ” alias London University ...
The Junior Army and Navy Stores Company’s
Board is by no means a united service. Quite re-
cently, Captain Gambler, R.N., joined issue with
his fellow-director, Major Clench. Each having
spoken words of high disdain, the Navy clenched
the argumfnt by going for the Army and blacken-
ing both his eyes... There’s a growing feeling in
the United States that a Constitutional amendment
is wanted, viz., a Presidential term of seven years,
with the condition of ineligibility for a second
term ...A General Order has just been issued by
the British military authorities, announcing that
a medal is to be granted to those who were en-
gaged in 1863-4, in the expedition against the
Mohmund tribes. Twenty years after! A cer-
tain bank, with a humour that half atones for the
tyranny of the act, has issued an order that
“gentlemen must not wear beards or moustaches
during office hours.”.. -As might have been ex-
pected (as we did expect), Brussels sprouts indig-
nantly against the new “ Clerical ” Ministry. Leo-
pold willeither have to dismiss them or to pack up
his portmanteau. The burghers of Bt. Genevieve
and tho traders of Antwerp are hasty folk when
their blood’s up—and all the worse that they
are curs, which the army is the same
The newest London hansoms are fitted with india-
rubber tires, and ride as smoothly as a palanquin.
The revision of the authorised version of the
Old Testament has been completed. It will not,
however, be published until early next year....
Emma Abbott sings ‘ Nearer, my God, to Thee,”
in the bull-fight scene in “Carmen.” Were the
bull to toss her, and so help her to realise the truth
of tho remark, clerical opinion would pronounce
“ A judgment, serve her right!” .. In the course
of a single day, recently, 2,000,000 eggs, weighing
130 tons, were landed at Harwich, England, from
the Continent. Between 50 and 60 tons of eggs
arrive every day at Harwich from Northern Italy,
via the St. Gothard tunnel. Sothern theyounger’s
“ Whose are They,” is a comedietta, the plot
whereof deals with the adventures of a pair of
lady’s garters. New York went to see it, and
blushed so that rouge riz.


pu B NIT U 8 B_8 H O W ROQ« s
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O Conneli and Spring streets, Bydney.
rALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDfT .
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT * »*#
Drawing-room suites, in^Exdursr^
taste, the very latest fashion : well wortw®
iZ~r * in. lcdt uwmun ; w«n '
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
f°r Choice ciono 7
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Braaf 50,
wewton, and Lamb. “radley,
M?
f ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on
-—L SOME STANDS, for clubs.
smoking rooms, &o. o " M *uranta
"OEDROOM SUITES complete in
JJ and very handsome designs, with 7?f
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes forsln^ 1
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEW*
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney
E
IGHT-PQUND BEDROOM
___ Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising 'J,/
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing ar<J -
& l^mßxT* wo J c M ir ' 8 - Th o"lot for £B.‘madlfv
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with stive™
piace-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble t° d
and tfie back and Towel rail; TOILET TART v P
swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL cm?’
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guinea/'
„ BRADLET, NEWTON, and LAMR'
C HEAP FURNITDRE.—Pine
6d. ; Dining Tables, from 205.; KitohM -
JJressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s «a n
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from’ sn’
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 3te.; Cedar
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d. ;
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADTrn?
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and 0 ? Connell streeS.
4
£
ii
X?QPI PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
cwtltl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
finished in
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elega
Tapestry, Embroidery, Piusl .
piHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O Connell-street.
E££K™P,£ CASIONAL CHAIKa, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT W ORKSOF ART. Inspection invited.
DRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CH AIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Verv handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
8
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CH AIL—
Patented.
%
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very extern
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNT-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O'Connell-streets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
Bell and Spring streets.
WASHSTANDS, with marble, irom 355. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, low est price*.
SOCIAL
An exceedingly neat programme was
Issued by the Suburban Bicycle Club for their
meeting last Saturday, and the entries gave some
fe dly capital racing. Although wheel races are
Very popular, there have been a good many of
them ateiy, and the lovely weather and other at-
tractions drew pleasure-seekers in all directions,
so the gathering on the Association Ground was
not a crowded one. But the afternoon’s sport was
good, the bracing breeze made parading on the
lawn almost a necessity, and there was a gay and
variegated show of toilets; the Cltyl'Band, more-
over, under Mr. Hodge, again appeared in public,
and, in the corner opposite the entrance gate,
played a list of eight choice selections, all soft and
tuneful strains. At two o’clock, the novice riders
started in the “maiden mile,” and, at live, a
finish was made with the “ladies’ nomination,”
a novelty, inasmuch as the prizes are three brace-
lets, which the winners are no doubt expected to
present to somebody who can fitly wear them.
The lucky winners were all Suburban men, Att-
wood, Kemshard and C. K. Wood. Indeed, it is
notable that, with one exception, the winner of
every ’cycle race on Saturday belonged to that
flourishing club. They showed up 29 strong in
the parade, other clubs being poorly represented.
Ladies, as usual, watobed the .events keenly, and
even if some or their criticisms were very inno-
cent, they showed at least what interest was taken,
it was quite touching- sometimes to listen to the
exclamations of dolight as fair spectators would
follow up some well-known name in an exciting
race, lavishing an almost affectionate amount of
sympathy upon him, and then discover at last
they had been watching the wrong man. Ladies
are on safer ground when watching and cri-
ticising one another. One of their most fre-
quent objects of criticism, perhaps, was a silk
dress of remarkable colour. In some lights it
looked a terra-cotta of dazzling brightness, in
others 1 a copper colour; but it ws,s most sugges-
tive of that full, rich brown seen in the nasturtium
flower; the skirt was pleated and bunched, and
the breast covered with ficelle lace. There were
suede gloves, and it was the most conspicuous
dress. A perfect antithesis to its glowing warmth
was a dress of faint bluey-white, made in simple
percale, but most tasteful in fit and style, with a
red border to show under its white lace hem. A
heliotrope, spotted with violt't, and with violet
loops of ribbon at the bottom, looked nice on a
sprightly little lady. The two Anest dresses were
both of velvet, with silk sash round the hips; one
was myrtle-green, the other ruby. The gayest
was a bright moss-green skirt of velvet, sur-
mounted with cream striped silk body and paniers
The prettiest were worn by two sisters, but they
only favoured admiring eyes wlith a brief glance
as they went into the stand. On e was pure white
lawn, everything to correspond, and the dazzling
parasol was edged with a filmy lace like falling
snow. The other was of lightest I’awn, exquisitely
airy, and passed out of vision so q uickly as only to
leave a faint idea of what was the prettiest picture
of the afternoon.
• ■ •
At the Girilambone bachel ors and bene-
dicts’ ball, which came off on t he sth inst., the
vitality and energy of the back -blockers, espe-
cially the B.verock contingent, mi ;de a grand suc-
cess. Arrangements and decorations, thanks to
the ladies' help, were first-class. . 30 couples
attended, and the dresses, which nearly all came
from Sydney, were alike a wonder ful mystery and
a vision of beauty to the men “ who roam the
rnvall scrub and mulga downs, the swamp and
salt-bush plain.” Opinion was very much divided
as to the belle; several of the N ever-Never men
swearing that they were all belles. But the imagi-
nation is apt to get heated by 1< mg residence op
those thirsty plains, and colder c ritics could look
at the girls more impartially. T h«se who could
keep calm enough to look steadily, thought the
honour lay between a graceful gi !rl in pink and a
lively one in a short blue dress—b oth being good
dancers-and a tall, good-looking, but rather sta-
tuesque young lady in white sati n. Apart from
these three attractions, other nic e toilettes were
worn; a blue and brown brocaded silk, worn by a
dark and stately married lady; a pale pink, on a
tall maiden, and a canary satin -yorn by a dark
young lady, were most striking. This ball, the
most enjoyable and successful ever held on the
West Bogan, did not break up till t he kookaburras
with their noisy notes, heralded th« j broad daylight!
V *
Another bachelors’ assembly on Friday in
Needs’s rooms proved as satisfactory as they al-
ways do. There was a chceiful company, plenty
of room, good musio, and a tastefully-laid supper-
table without any crush. The coolness of the
night led to the conservatory al-yays being full
and the ballroom showed the coi itinual alitter of
beautiful costumes. Beaded whites and modest
pinks, iace-edged blues, and car dinals bedecked
with pompons, lace, and fringe, w ere all excellent,
as with beaming eyes and flitting i eet their wearers
flashed around. Nearly all were skilful dancers
none more so than a lively lady i a a quiet dress of
cocoa-coloured veiling, with maroon velvet bodice
and bands. Some score of da aces were done
Messrs. Baylis and Shortland bei pg masters of the
floor; and soon after 12 o'clock, the assembly
close i. Next month’s dance will, close the season.
* * *
»' A fairly large audience—mostly a front-
seat one—met in the new Masonic Hall on Thurs-
day, when a high-class concert wtis given, in aid
of the new building for ophthalmic children,
Miller’s Point. The programme was of reasonable
length, but several encores were insisted on,
especially when Miss Annis Montague sang Meyer-
beer’s “Ombra Leggiera” (encore, “Kathleen
Mavourneen ”), and Rossini’s “Bel Raggio” (en-
core, “Somebody’s ooming”), eaeh piece gaining
loud and long applause. This Jady also sang in
two duets with Mr. Charles Turner, and the latter
sang “The last watch,” and “ Her name.” Madame
Marius, Herr Francik. and four gentlemen ama-
teurs, who sang twice in quartettes, assisted in the
programme, Madame King being accompanist.
Mrs. Moulton, who has taken an interest in the
ophthalmic institute, made her dbbut in public
very successfully, singing first the simple ballad,
“Auntie,” and then “Close to the threshold,”
with accompaniment of Francik’n violin, and £a
number of handsome bouquets were sent to her
at the finish of each song. The Governor, Lady
Loftus, and a party from Government House were
present at the concert.
• • m
In the new Masonic Hall, on the 10th in-
stant, Sydney Owls held their usual monthly hoot.
Punctuality is not a virtue of all the members,
and 8 o’clock had long gone before some of the
tardy ones came. Mr. C. Shepherd prevailed a
good deal at the piano, and the best song of the
evening was “ It was a dream,” by Mr. Brooks, the
most amusing beina “The good young man who
died.” The musical efforts of the Owls were not
all of even merit, but the audience proved con-
siderate. Young aspirants could not have a
better chance to make a first appearance than at
one of these meetings where the social Owls
smoke their cigars, “ wet their beaks.” and listen
not too critically to maiden efforts. ‘‘Tiie Anchor’s
Weighed,” “l’he Shipwrecked Crow.’Sjgjad a medley
of comic songs were among the siaHEor pieces
given. At half-time, there was an inllwul, during
which the Owls disappeared below the platform,
and came up soon after looking much fresher.
• • »
On Friday last, a private social of a most
genuine and enjoyable kind was held in the Town
Hall, Petersham. About 40 couples were present,
and the room was brilliant with handsome toilettes
Conspicuous amongst them, were those of two
sisters from Summer Hill, the elder in white, with
pale blue broebd front, and the younger in a beau-
tiful dross of pure white. A young 1 lady, resident
in the locality, was well-arrayed in a delicate pink
satin, and attracted much admiration, as did also a
young Jady from Newtown, in a very neat cream
dress, set off with pale blue front. About mid-
night, there was a pause for refreshments, after
which dancing was renewed, till the small hours
brought the close of a very pleasant festive
gathering.
• * *
At St. Michael’s, Surry Hills, on the 10th
instant, Miss Helen Friend Brownlow, a younger
daughter of Mrs. Brownlow, ef Gowrie, Waverley,
was married to Mr. A. B. Clark, surveyor, of Mel-
bourne. The bride wore a pearl satin train and
body, with skirt of beautiful old houiton lace, veil
t aa< i wreath of orange blossoms. Two
sisters, as bridesmaids, wore white cashmere
dresses with mauve sash, and white chip hats with
mauve feathers. The bride’s mother wore a rich
black silk dress with train, and cream bonnet and
feathers; and two elder sisters looked cool and
summery in white lawn skirts very full, and
tucked into the waist; hats with complete garden
or boring flowers-in fact, a kind of wo-manly
flower show. The bride and bridegroom left for
Melbourne by express train.
• • •
There is some beauty in wild flowers; but
the gush about them is just a trifle overdone.
Many of the extravagant eulogies passed at the
Manly wild flower show were probably uttered by
persons who “speak from the teeth outwards”;
those who were in earnest cannot have travelled
much. Certainly, there was something to admire;
but it was the industry and ingenuity of those
who put the flowers together, rather than the
dingy products of our suburban scrub. The
amount of labour expended was enormous. A
fernery at one end of the pavilion leading to en-
closed grounds was a fairy-like soene, a home fit
tor the fays of Shakespeare’s fertile fancy, a
miniature gully with cascade of babbling water
casting crystal spray upon the cool green ferns.
*‘ ra L J • Hardie did a large trade at her stall. Mrs.
C. H. Hayes had some of the best devices. Mrs.
Smedley s Japanese stall was of the most original
kind, one of its items being a peacock composed of
fffoss, with natural feathers. A novelty was a
doll s house in swamp grass, finished off with
native roses. The prima donna stallholder, Miss
Toote, was very attractive in a costume of dark
chocolate body and white skirt, with white bows.
Next, were the Misses Olley, one in pink, one in
blue: and, indeed, all the stallholders, however
careful of the flowers, had not omitted to bestow
a little care on their own fair selves. Amoug the
visitors, a most distinguished costume was worn
by a Melbourne lady—dark green velvet and car-
dinal, and a green satin skirt to match. A very
noticeable costume was grey satin and bonnet
with pink feathers, in excellent taste. Shot fabrics
wore plentiful, and a dark lavender dress with
body of shot plush was very prominent. On
JL hursaay, the attendance was fashionable, Sir
Alfred Stephen opening the show, and the faces of
known society people were seen on all sides.
Saturday was the popular day, when there was a
terrible crush, and very insufficient accommoda-
tion in any respect. Music was provided by a
baad ? a^ oh da y< and Quong Tart furnished that
stall of his which is now always looked for by the
public. In the evening of Saturday the show was
open, and there was a late boat back to Sydney,
which would have been a great convenience if it
had been put on the two previous days."
# • *
Next Wednesday, the grand Masonio ball
of the Lodge Sydney Tarbolton, 377 8.C., takes
place in the Town Hall, and is sure to be pleasant,
as the balls of this Lodge always are. Everyone
knows how suitable the vestibule is for a large
ball, every convenience being provided, and the
promoters are determined to have a thoroughly
sociable affair. Dancing begins at 8 30.
* * *
Christ Church, Queanbeyan, was the scene
of a pretty wedding last Thursday, the bridegroom
being Mr. James Morrice, of Marulan, and the
bride, who looked nice in pale India muslin and
lace. Miss Charlotte Kemp, of Queanbeyan. Two
bridesmaids in pink, and two in blue, looked
prettily stylish. Mrs. Kemp wore a handsome
black broche, and the bridegroom looked as solemn
as happy man always does on such occasions. The
choir aided the service, and the church was well
deoorated. A dance was given in the evening by
Mrs. Kemp, in the Protestant Hall. Conspicuous
among the guests was the local member’s wife, in
a handsome cream satin; also, the wife of the P.M
in cream broche. The banks were represented by
a stately lady in black, and a petite in handsome
cream broche. The charming bridesmaids soon
had full programmes. A surveyor’s wife looked
well in cream, and her dancing was much admired.
Two sisters from a neighbouring station in pink
and blue, a bank manager’s daughter in mauve,
and a young Jady in black and cardinal, were at-
tractive. A stylish dress of white satin, hand-
painted, was worn by a merry girl who danced
indefatigably: ana a young lady from Canberra in
pink, as well as one in white from Cuppacumba-
long, were admirable. The bachelors mustered in
great force; and though a public hall does not
afford many opportunities for that dalliance so
dear to youthful hearts, yet there were a few
couples on whom the mystic influence of the beau-
tiful morning service seemed to have had a serious
effect.
• • •
A ball will be given by the Mayor and
Mayoress of Sydney on the 15th October, in the
Town Hall.
* * *
The Vaudeville Quadrille Club gave a plain
and fancy dress ball on Friday evening, the 13th
instant, and great was the merry-making thereat.
Some thirty or forty couples paraded the hall in
motley hue—one's sensation being the usual doubt
as to whether time had slipped back a couple of
hundred years or more, or whether we were some-
body else and had been living all our lives as
supe ’’ in an opora-bouffe company. Various
were the characters and marvellous the effects
produced by fair young ladies and brave men.
FoHy, with twinkling fe*t and tinkling bells, co-
quetted with the King of Spades, whose gloomy ex-
tenor was a good disguise for the jolly good fellow
he turned out to be. A muscular Mephistopbeles,
whose get-up wasa success, succumbed completely
to the fascinations of the gentle sex. A charming
little lady from Hurry Hills appeared as Vaude-
ville, in red and black satin spangled with golden
crescents. Mary Queen of Scots, who, in regal
fashion, did not choose to give the entertainment
too much of her presence, looked stately in a weli-
composed robe of black velvet and white satin. A
pretty costume was that of the Scotch Lassie,
whose face harmonised well with its agreeable
surroundings. Many other effective costumes
could be mentioned, whose attractive wearers
came in for their full share of admiration.
Among the ladies who elected to appear in even-
ing dress, Miss Hill took a first place, in a most be-
coming costume of white satin trimmed with rose-
buds. Miss Stephens looked well in blue and
white muslin. Mr. Maddison, as a Captain in the
Blue Ribbon Army, was none the less a good
fellow because its leading principle was quietly
forgotten. Mr. Charles, in the part of a Clown,
kept the ball rolling; Mr. Arle decidedly
scored as Bambini: and the Duke, whose
work-a-day name we forget, also took a front
seat. Mr. Seymour as Richard III.; Mr. Carle
as a Jockey; Mr.Griffiths, Yachtsman; Mr. Fowler
Harlequin; Mr. C. Rolleston and Mr. Morris (M.C.)
as Sailors; Mr. Watt, Postillion; and many others
helped in their different parts to heighten the bril-
liancy of the scene, and the whole affair was
creditable to the young people by whom it was
originated. The music was principally provided
by amateur talent of a very superior order. Mr.
Callaghan catered successfully. Some 34 dances
were brought to a termination without ajhitch. and
the company, well pleased with the evening's en-
joyment, with the milk in the morning.
The Londoners’ Club ball is announced for
Friday night 19th, in West’s Rooms. This is the
first of what it is hoped to make an annual and
notable lestivity, ana everything will be done to-
ensure the pleasure of guests. The programme is
to be attacked promptly at 8. Good music is en-
gaged, and if the girls only take care to sit out of
the draught, they can rely on a real nice ball.
Bathurst Buffaloes had a ball in the Vic-
toria Hall last week. About 100 present, including
*™° n R. Thatcher from Sydney. . .Gundagai
Oddfellows hold their anniversary ball on 19th
September —Some people are displeased that the
Governor of Queensland invited no tradesmen to
his ball. He might have been muoh more exclu-
sive, and not invited anyone who earned his own
living. The ball would then have been confined to
civil servants and blackfellows On Saturday
week, 27tb instant, the Sydney Amateur Canvas
Oingy Club celebrate the opening of their season
by a little festive flutter at Cremorne. The
Agenoria leaves Fort Macquarie at 3.30, and Mr.
Herbert Downs will see that his visitors spend a
pleasant after n00n.... Last Monday, another good
gathering of visitors attended the Woollahra Pri-
vate Rink, and careered around with their usual
energy. So loth are the members to cease, that,
despite the approach of warm nights, there will be
at least one more meeting (next Monday)—The
Bundarra Druids lately had an anniversary concert
and ball. A farce was also played, and the danoing
only ended as dawn came on Next Thursday
there will be a very fashionable affair at the new
Masonic Hall, when a number of distinguished
amateurs are to perform a concert and comedietta
for the benefit of the Infants’ Home, Ashfleld;
tickets, a crown each On the 25th instant, Sir
Henry Parkes will open a flower-show and bazaar
at Leonards School of Arts, and it will be open the
two following days as well Last Friday there
was a pleasant company at the Balmain Private
Assembly. Mr. Oldham’s refreshments, with good
music and floor, and the efforts of the hon. sec.,
Mr. W. Mitchell, all conduced to enjoyment of a
seleot company — Burwood, also, had its private
assembly the same night, in the large hall of the
School of Arts, when many handsome toilettes were
seen. Baumann catered... Saturday afternoon, 11th
October, Bishop Barry will open the new nave of
St. Thomas’ Church, North Snore, when there will
surely be a crush of fashion, and the daughters of
Moab will be more irresistible than ever Mem-
bers of the Balmain Rowing Club contest, this
Saturday, for prizes given by lady admirers. The
flag-steamer Psyche leaves Erskine-street at 2 p.m.,
and then calls at all Balmain wharves ...Opening
of the Turf Hotel, Bourke, was celebrated by a
supper to some three-score guests, given by Mr.
E- wormall The fancy fair at Orange was a
brilliant affair; ladies were in fancy costumes,
there were all kinds of sideshows, music, ami large
attendance. The police noted the names of ladies
who raffled articles, so as to prosecute, if neces-
sary. In Sydney church bazaars, raffling is carried
on unchecked. Whioh shows that law in N.B.W.
is a wonderful thing, depending partly on geo-
graphy, and partly on the density of legal intellect.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Girilambone ”: Very good. ...“G. L.”: A day too
late for last week ...“One of the Guests”:
Why didn’t you write next morning, instead of
waiting five days ?....“ A. B.”: Yes.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Gymnastic Sociable September 18.
Londoners’ Club Ball (West’s) September 19.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Niths-
dale) September 19.
Breakfast to Sir H. Parkes (Temper-
ance Ha 11)....... September 19.
Sydney A. A. Club Sports September 20.
Oxford and Cambridge Dinner (Bau-
mann’s) September 22.
Masonic Ball (Town Hall) September 24.
Church of England Grammar School
Sports (Association Ground) September 24.
Annual Railway Ball (new Masonio
o ; i September 26.
Grand Bazaar opens (new Masonio
Midlothian ’ Lodge ’ Sooiai”(Masonic SePtember
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) .... October 10.
Mayor s Ball (Town Hall) October 15
A case is reported of a man cutting his
throat through drink. The proper way is to cut it
through the jugular.
In the (Jornhill Magazine for August
appear some gratifying statistics. “As a result of
the general prosperity,” and in no small degree as
a consequence of the shortening of the hours of
labour, the average duration of life in England
has increased from 39.9 in the male and 41.9 in the
i§k? w ?r e th ® figures in the period
1838-54) to 41.9 for the male and 43.3 for the female.
Ihe estimate for the whole of life now is that of
one thousand persons—one half males and one half
*®™ a| es-35 survive at the age of 45, 36 at 55, nine
at 65, three at 75, and one at 85. Every thousand
persons born since 1870 will live in the aggregate
about 3700 years longer than before.
The Manchester Courier, commenting
upon the pauperism existing* in Sydney (as re-
r®cJ??£ “unemployed” trouble),
thinks that the N.S.W. Government should warn
English working men against going out to a dis-
tant and unknown country with vague expecta-
tions which are not likely to be realised. We can
only see common sense in the Courier's remarks;
granny, however, says they will cause a smile to
come over the faces of those who recollect the
circumstances alluded to; but, then, the venerable
one, as the organ of capitalist society, naturally
only sees that which is pleasant and gratifying in
anything tending to keep down wages.
The Shen Pao explains that marriage by
capture still exists in China in two forms. One,
feigned capture, concerted by the relatives on
both sides, in order to save expense, and to which
only a feigned resistance is made. Secondly, vio-
lent capture, either on impulse, or because of
some dispute in the marriage negotiations. In
feigned capture, after three days, the bridegroom
and bride return with a sheep and wine to do obeis-
ance to the bride’s parents. We rather like this
feigned capture idea, with the bride and bride-
groom doing obeisance with sheep and wine to
paterfamilias. It is—we view the matter from the
paterfamilias standpoint—a huge improvement on
the idiotic practice in vogu e in Britain and its de-
pendencies of the bride’s father doing obeisance to
her and her man with caice and wine and trim-
mings. Feigned capture, by ail means.
Were anything wanting to clinch the too
well-known fact of the intensely Jeamesy Jingoism
of the lines on which the (/olonial Institute is run,
the subjoined specimen from its latest annual
report would do the business straight:—“The
lamented and premature d eath of His Royal High-
ness Prince Leopold, Duk e of Albany, evoked the
profound sorrow and heartfelt sympathy of all
Her Majesty a subjects. J!t is well known that His
Royal Highness felt a special interest in the colo-
nies, and this he evinced'.—among*st other ways—
byyisiting the Dominion o/f Canada, and honouring
with his presence a meeting of the Royal Colonial
Institute which was held a few months ago.
Addresses of condolence with Her Majesty the
Queen, His Royal Highmass the Prince of Wales
(president of the Institute), and Her Royal High-
ness the Duchess of Albany, were adopted on
April 8, and signed by His Grace the Duke of Man-
chester, on behalf of the Council and Fellows.
Gracious;acknowledgmeni:s of these addresses have
been received.” What, hoi there—that ounce of
civet, quick I
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hockings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tnotefully decorated with
flag and floral decoratio.as. 60? Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
“ Rough on Corns.”—Ajsk for Wells’ “ Rough
on Corns.’* Quick relief, complete, permanent
cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses Moss and
Co., Sydney, Agents.
Eat and Live. —Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves und muscular system ;
nourishing and giving now vigour to the entire
human organisation. Proprietors Marshall
Brothers, M.P.8., 104 an d 106 Market-street, and
5 Pitt-street, Circular-quay, Sydney.


BOYD & KING’S
SALES.
SUBURBAN
HOMES
Business Sites.
CHARMING VIEWS,
PURE AIR.
RAPID TRANSIT,
EASY TERMS.
THE ADVANTAGES of PURE MOUNTAIN AIR
A AND SCENERY, NEAR TO SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ASSISTANCE TO BUILD.
This land has been under cultivation for the past
TO years, and at the present time bears a very large
Quantity of Oraoge, Lemon, and Fruit Trees, and
upwards of 4000 young and vigorous Vines, the
best in the colony.
THE ESTATE IS NEAR THREE RAILWAY
STATIONS.
SPRINGFIELD IS NOT ONLY THE TOWNSHIP,
b BUT THE PICK OF GUILDFORD.
Although this Estate has only been in the market
a few weeks, two houses have already been erected,
and several others are in preparation.
Business men looking out for Sites would do well
to inspect this property.
A FEW MAIN ROAD FRONTAGES RE-
MAINING
ileveland
STREET,
£350
CITY LEASEHOLD, to pay 20
p.c. Two substantially-built,
brick and stone, semi-detached
5-roomed houses, in thorough
repair, and well let. Owner
leaving the colony sole cause of
selling. The price is extremely
low. Terms easy.
CANLEY VALE,
£25 Deposit.
A well-built W B. COTTAGE,
wiih 3 allotments of land. The
location is well adapted for
residence, and the rapid transit
to and from Sydney renders this
a desirable investment for those
wishing a home in the country,
5 minutes’ walk from two rail-
way stations. Terms easy.
«v:
-//
$
Vs.
ALLTiC
A
VA
V/y
///
a iW > |Ui_
ALLTTcn
sta a l
LpHEp sa
2 & ■*
iiiivii
I 1,1 1 !
ss^
Messrs. ALIT Si CO.’S In Win: and Stint Stores and Stilus,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Messrs.
TRUMAN, HANBURY, BUXTON & CO.,
Brewers, Purton-on-Trent;
JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS,
Messrs. A. C. MEUKOW A CO.,
Cognac;
E. & J. DU RKE a>
"Eight SparKiing Trent A.e ;
Messrs. MUNZER & SPANN,
Bordeaux, (larets ;
Tho Due de Montebello Champagne, S/At, France:
The Cnareuto V ineyard Proprietors, Charente.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood ChamooiS, Wormwood-street, E.C.
T. L. Smith's Latait Kove.
OPENING NEW PREMISES, at
418 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the present establishment, 399 George-st.
CLEARANCE SALE of BOOKS, STATIONERY,
PICTURES, FANCY GOODS, CARDS FOR
ALL SEASONS, EIC.
Surprising Reduction of 4s. in tho £, to expedite
removal of his enormous stock.
The Sale now progressing is a gratifying
success.
T. L. SMITH, 399 George-st.,
Exactly opposite the Royal Hotel.
—n—■
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are thjee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
fums, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. 1 hat
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To uucvrd cujainat fraudulent imitations.
■ ,ahel bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
866 that each
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London
DE
ASTHMA,COUGH, BRONCHITIS.
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
i P £ood night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
00.. 239 Oxford-street, London.
ON THE
IBricls:±leld. Hill-
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS In LACE CURTAINS.
I3JP These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 10© PRICES.
Ladies residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it otit, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
a>A
%
SKSS2
. 5
a
>
{ E
t
nr.
a
,
m
iWfil
M
LACE CERTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapera. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets Striped and Plain Window Union, 13?" Examine carefully the engraving of our
4 “LACE CURTAINS.’’
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS ,
7LACE CURTAINS | 868 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE curtains'!
par 1 Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
BOXJRKE,
, a ii.n Wfistera district. The Table and Liquors
Is £«&"». Private Suites tor families. First-class Stabile;.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
Are you going to Bourke ?”
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBE
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned Warmoll.


MEDIC L TESTIMONY.
169 Collins-btreet, Eas!t, Melbourne.
I have tasted the Bavarian Hop Bitters;
they are palatable, and being aware of their com
?onents, I should say wholesome, and suitable for
hose conditions of the liver and stomach that
require herbal stimulants.
J. H. WEBB, M.R.C.S., Eng.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pxtt-street, Sydney. t3T* Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplif
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements*.
Saw Mill Plant. &o. No commission charged tm
buying. 83P~ Agents for the sale or purobaae oe-
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
Mb. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Advker, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-Btreet, Sydney, ear Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and, -
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever"
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, l ioods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric!
or fancy article, easily and per fectly coloured to ■
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seali
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will l
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have*
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be*
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6di-
per paokage. Send 3d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card ov
Colours, &0., *c., by return post.*
Woman Items
Unconscious Homoeopathy.—“ I was vac-
cinated straight from the calf, you know!” Ah I
SimiHa iimilibus! ”
Mrs. Clement Clay, of Atalanta, Georgia,
was married on July 2nd. On the 10th she insti-
tuted a suit for a divorce. This beats Peter Camp-
bell.
Probably one of the most trying times in a
man's life is when he introduces his second wife,
seventeen years old, to his eldest daughter, who is
past twenty.
“That is Miss . She has no parents,
brothers, or sisters, but she is worth £100,000.”
“Ahl that’s just the sort of family I want to
marry into.”
It was the young lady who had just ap-
plied for the situation of cook. “I’vealways been
aecustomed to carriage folks,” she demurely said.
And it subsequently transpired that she spoke the
truth, for she was a cabman’s widow.
A photographer says that, at eighteen, a
girl will sit twelve times for a photograph, and
then be dissatisfied. At forty, the same person
will sit once and take the picture even if the
artist points out three or four defects.
A Russian is not legally a man until he is
twenty-six years old. Fanoy a Russian mother
saying, “ Alvirawiska, who was that sitting so
close on the sofa with you last night?” and Alvi
replying, “ < nly Chipmunkiwiski, a little boy
from over the way. We were celebrating his
twenty-fifth birthday.”
None but the brave deserve the fair. —
Lady Circe (who is rather tired, and wants to sit
down): “If you are really so devoted as you say
you are, Sir Charles, I’ll tell you how you can show
your devotion.” Sir Charles: “Tell me! Oh, tell
me I ” Lady Circe: “ Well, you can take that niee
old lady down to supper, you know, and then I can
have her chair.”
In England, Mary Nolan, a pugnacious
servant girl, has got two months’ gaol for a brutal
assault on her mistress, the wife of Colonel Basevl.
The assault, which was of an aggravated and de-
termined character, arose from a dispute as to the
personal character of the defendant, and from the
refusal of her mistress to pay the expenses of the
girl’s visit to her mother’s grave in Ireland.
The cholera microbe is in Paris an unwel-
come guest. A French husband, returning to his
domestic hearth, late one evening, observed a sus-
picious hat. Searching further, he found a still
more suspicious gentleman concealed in a cup-
board. “ What is the meaning of this?” he asked,
turning with a frown to his wife. “Do not agitate
yourself,” replied the lady, “ the gentleman is only
searching for microbes.”
The horrible crime of mutilating women
by cutting off their noses is so common at Bom-
bay as to call for the free use of the lash. In one
day Judge Scott heard three such cases, in each
of winch three years’ imprisonment was indicted.
The miserable women who are mutilated in this
way are, of course, rendered hideous ever after-
wards: and, because they are women,.it is simply
impossible to calculate the misery and degrada-
tion that they will experience during the rest of
their lives.
In a certain Parisian salon the subject of
conversation was the different methods of suicide.
A learned member of the company recalled the
fact that slaves in olden times strangled them-
selves by swallowing the tongue. “ That is a con-
venient kind of death,” said a lady, “and I would
willingly adopt it in case of necessity.” “Ah I but
that would not be death by strangulation,” mur-
mured one of her friends; “ in your case it would
be death by poisoning.”
She hadn’t made up her mind about it and
they were widely, oh! so widely separated—in the
drawing-room, from each other; maybe as much
as three feet. There was a pensive silence fringed
with doubt between them. She was engaged in
deep meditation with herself and was looking at
nothing ori the floor, when he said: “ Malinda, why
not give me an answer to my proposal ?” “ Why,
I was just thinking how you will look when you
get old,” she thoughtfully replied.
A famous London veterinary surgeon was
the other day summoned by telegram to Scotland
by a well-known lady, to meet the looal adviser in
consultation on the case of her favouritejpug. He
had to travel nearly 500 miles to reach his destina-
tion. Had a child belonging to a poor neighbour
been dying, the lady dog-owner woulu, of course,
have summoned the most eminent physician from
London. But ohildren are cheaper than pugs in
England—just as, in Sydney, a woman who wants
to run a barrel-organ can hire more cheaply two
babies than one monkey.
[q Russia it is a oommon mode of expres-
sion to say: “As happy as a priests wife.” The
reason why she is so happy is because her hus-
ba id’s position depends upon her. if she dies, he
is deposed, and beoomes ameie layman, and his
Eroperty is taken away from him and distributed,
alt to his children and half to the government.
This dreadful contingency makes the Russian
priest careiul to get a healthy wife if he can, and
makes him take extraordinarily good care of her
after he has secured her. He waits upon her in
the most abject way. She must never get her
feet wet, and she is petted and put in hot blankets
if she has so much as a cold in the head. It is the
greatest possible good fortune for a girl to marry
a priest-infinitely better than to be the wife of a
noble.
Lawn-tennis is losing its hold on fashion-
able society at home, as a female fad, as there is a
feeling growing that is a game meant for men, and
in which they only have any chance of excelling.
If played by girls, it should be played without cor-
sets. Against a young fellow in flannels, a girl in
stays and a dress weighted with the cumbersome
protuberances which are now in fashion, has no
chance. If she bestirs herself in striking the ball,
her movements are not only ungraceful, but in-
jurious to health, to say nothing of putting her
fashionable fixings considerably out of gear. If,
on the other hand, she doesn’t bestir herself, but
only poses in pretty attitudes, then there is no
game. Besides, there is no opening for sentiment
in tenniß: it is too active, and, after all, ic is the
men’s company and chatter girls want, not the
game. You never saw four girls playing tennis
without a man.
Miss Helen Taylor, whose active and intel-
ligent services in connection with the Lo dou
School Boards and other public matters had won
for her probably a higher standing in public
esteem than any Englishwoman sttes Florence
Night itutsle, is sacrificing ail her social prestige.
The Would says of her that •‘she is fast losing
any reputation she ever had for political capacity
or jud, raent.” The statement is quite true in the
sense that there can be no reputation except such
as is conferred by the “ swell ” classes. The fact is
that Miss Taylor has advanced to an earnest ad-
vocacy of the principles of Henry George, and has
become a member of the Counoil of the Social
Democracy. Consequently, the wealthy and middle
classes—to the latter of which she belongs—have
©eased to applaud, and commence to denounce her.
But, simultaneously, she Is acquiring a great and
increasing popularity among the working classes.
In fact, she is already the most respected woman
in England in the eyes of the masses.
London Truth advocates the new idea of
the “visible corset," as a thing to be desired.
Supposing a neat undergarment to cover the bust
and shoulders, why should the outside corset be
less decent than one which, while it is hidden itself,
is yet worn beneath a dress which leaves the body
hal nude, as at present? Is there anything lewd
in the sight of corset laces ? Why, they are seen
now on the outside of satin ball dresses. To stout
ladies the new idea would be a positive blessing.
It '8 not their stays which produce that peculiar
bursting appearance in the busts of too, too solid
female venuses, but the dress itself, which has the
responsibility of confining that superabundance
which escapes from the stays. There is no secret
about the duties of a corset. Truth contends that
the visible corset, with a pretty undergarment as
a chemisette (or, as the French so nicely call it,
“une modestie"), would obviate a double squeez-
ing of the vital organs, bring out graceful con-
tours more clearly, and be death to the many
various expedients for improving the figure by
means of horsehair and wadding. From the toilet
point of view, the visible corset would be like the
nominative case in grammar, and govern the rest
of the costume.
In an article headed “The Peerage on
Loan,” the World waxes cynical at the expense
of "the twenty thousand fashionable people who,
the other day at the Health Exhibition, paid from
ten shillings to a pound apiece for the privilege of
passing a couple of hours under the same roof as
Royalty. A duchess sold butter at a ducal figure,
and a great number of ladies, less highly placed in
the Peerage, were good enough to include them-
selves in the bill of the evening, and disposed of
flowers and fruit at prices which, on other occa-
sions, would have been prohibitive. Everything
was arranged with a precise knowledge of tbe de-
votion borne by twenty thousand people to a
lord’s relatives even in a week of ‘ demonstration ’
against the Peerage. There was a stall where a
glass of insipid water cost tbe price of champagne,
and hard by a ‘bar’ where some tolerable beer
could be bought at the same price. But in one case
tbe dame vendeuse was a duchess; and in tbe other,
only a young lady, not without personal attrac-
tions, but without a title. All this is delightful.
It is a suggestive ciroumstance that, on a cold
night, about half the number of people who, two
days before, trudged through the rain to anathe-
matise the Upper House, should crowd the Heal-
theries to prove the awe which the Peerage
inspires. As a matter of fact, there was little to
see except what had been seen before—for Lord
Charles Beresford and bis fishing-pond are getting
a trifle scale—and not much to hear which had not
been often heard on former evenings. But the
Prinee and Princess, the two Duchesses, and the
sooiet.y ladies were irresistible attractions for the
twenty thousand Britons, and accordingly the hos-
pitals will be benefited by their munificence. The
only regret which tbe organisers of the f£te must
at present experience is that they did not fix the
tickets at four guineas, and import a batch of the
cheaper German serenities to work the beer-
engines. ’
One of those shows of beauty, splendour,
and fashion in London which some of our
colonial belles would almost sell their crinolette to
shine in for an hour-was the Health Exhibition.
It was a scene which Payn, illuminator to the
courts of Europe, admitted to be his greatest
triumph. Electricity scintillated everywhere, in
every conceivable colour and shape, falling upon
casoades of water, flashing from the hearts of
flowers, writing words upon tbe walls, and turning
lakes of water into sheets of flame. Light dresses,
white shoulders, the jewels, and the anstocmoy of
England wero all on view to those who liked to
pay. But they had to pay; there was no meroy In
the fleecing. One quiet-looking old gentleman
bought a basket of flowers from the hands of the
Princess of Wales for five guineas, and, on receiv-
ing It and paying, he gave it baok on condition she
would have it sold by auction. She agreed, and
the same old party was the buyer for seven
gu'neas. Paying the money, h« again returned
the basket, with the same odd request. Again
he bought it, for ten guineas, and was again
returning it to the Princess, when the Prinoe
of Wales sent his equerry to ask the old
gentleman’s name. That broke the spell: he
declined to give his name and walked away.
Alexandra, as ever, was the figure towards whom
everyone crowded, as she stood, the embodiment
of refined grace, in a plain black grenadine, falling
in folds close to the form, and with a square, low
bodice. Her sole ornaments were magnificent
diamonds, and round her neck there was a tight-
fitting necklet of velvet and diamonds, which bids
fair to become as historical as the oross of Marie
tstuart. Perhaps the next greatest attraction was
the very beautiful, slightly naughty, charming
widow Gladys—known equally as the Gipsy Coun-
tess and Lady Lonsdale. Although now engaged
to be married to Mr. Edward Vincent, the delicate
dudes, like a crowd of mosqnitoes, fluttered thickly
round the celebrated beauty. Roses, usually half
a crown, were eagerly bought from her hands at a
guinea each. Altogether, it was one of those daz-
zling displays seldom seen even in England, per-
haps never equalled outside. And yet, with all its
brilliance, a visitor thus tersely sums up its utter
heartlessness—it was for charity, you know:—“ Of
course, we like the hospitals to get plenty of
money; but when we saw all those magnificent
toilettes, those inestimable diamonds, those beau-
tiful women rloh beyond even our plebeian
dreams—we eouldi not help thinking how much
easier they could have given the money them-
selves than drained it out of others.*
Many parsons, when praying for “those at
sea,” pray for themselves.
The 10,600 sermons preaohed by a clergy-
man now deceased, are to be published under the
title: “No more sleepless nights.”
A native bear found its way into one of
the wards at the Rockhampton Hospital, the other
day, and before it could be ejected frightened one
of the patients into a fit. Down N.B.W. way, It
would take more than a shipload of native bears
to frighten a patient into a fit—the poor wretch
havir g painfully acquired a huge stock of endur-
ance irom his contact with the native wardsmen.
The Bathurt Free Press man who “ did ’
the fire at Boy Ison’s mill deserves a notice—be did
it without a sinule “ devouring element;" the lack
of which, though, he compensated for with a lurid
sprinkling of “ravages of the fire fiend.” and
“ angry mountains of awe-inspiring flames. Still,
the departure from the old track (re the “ d.e.”) is
so meritorious that we have left the price of a
long sleevcr for him at our favourite tap.
Wendell Holmes says it is a question
whether the habit of journalism has existed suffi-
ciently long for there to have been time for the
formation of a distinct type of face and manner,
which should be known as that of the journalist.
Other observers, less subtle and more cautious,
have asserted that the ordinary journalist may be
recognised by one infallible test—he may not
always be able to lend you sixpence, but he can
always oblige you with a lead pencil.
He Was a duly-qualified, legally-ordained
“madglstrait av th’tirrltory,” and, being invited
to attend a railway opening shivoo, he sent back
a polite note to say he could not attend, as he had
a bad attack of the gout. A few days after this,
the secretary of the demonstration committee
meeting him tramping about as lively as an old
slaughter-house crow hovering round a dead horse
observed, Hedo, Mr. Blank, you oon got over
your gout, Ijnotice.” “Gout! ’ exclaimed the Jav
Pay; Shure, Oi nivir had any gout in me loife
me man. What do you mean ?” said the other-
you yourself made that the excuse for not afcl
tending the railway opening banquet." “Oh!
now Oi undhersihand fwhat y mane," replied the
2, a, J y :^ oothed Po '°n: “but, shure, Oi lent mo
dickshinary to tu’ praste an’ Oi’d loike t’ see th’
malm that could sphell ‘disayntherry ’ widout a
dickshinary. ’ This jintilmln, by the way, is a
furst cousin, be his mother's soide,” to the party
who, whilst mooning about the wharves, one day
happened to see a boat with “ Psyche ” paiDted on
the side, and at once exclai > ed “P-s-y-c-h-e
Well, be th’ howly frog but that’s th’ funniest
way t sphell ftsh Oi iver heard of.”
When they had failed to lift the old Col-
laroy last week, and shouldered their blocks and
tackle and swore their way back to Manly, a swag-
man took quarters in the cabin, and unrolled his
swag, with the remark that he was in it this time
and proceeded to boil the billy. When the great
stars were shining in the heavens, and the waves
plashed a soothing lullaby against the old ship’s
side, the poor man slept the sleep of fatigue and
bad rum, and dreamt of a land that was fairer than
day, where work is unknown, and the streets run
beer. At midnight he sprang up with glaring eyes
and hair on end. A laugh, as of a thousand
thunders, reverberated from the hills and out to
sea. Peal after peal of laughter shook the old
ship’s sides, “ Ha, ha, hal wanted to move the old
girl again! Ha, ha, ha! Hold me, somebody! ”
* Who are you?’ 1 shrieked the swagman, in affright
“Who am I.” said the voice, “I’m the old Col-
laroy, and I ve got in here on the beach to lie
down and watch the other fools outside battling
the breeze. Ha, hal Oh! give us a rest. I’m
alive, I’m a ghost, I’m ” “ The devil,” yelled
the swagman, making a bald-headed dart over the
side and away over the hills, and the old original
swagman emerged from the hold, and said, “ That
fixed him. Wonder what be left in his swag!”
Three respectable angels who had agreed
to make a day of it over in the Southern Cross
stood on the walls of heaven, and having moist-
ened the palms of their hands and given a pre-
liminary flap or two of the wings that dropped
loose silver enough to feed a Rum man for a year,
plunged headlong down the empyrean chanting a
stave of compensation that reached the dreaming
ears of John Lucas. Arrived at Alpha Gentauri,
' they had an hour or two with the bovs, and then
dropped out to pull the upper star of the Cross a
little more straight. When they had caroused on
four-star nectar and sat in bowers of amaranth
with the other jokers until they were getting to
tip their crowns rakishly a-oneside, one said,
"Let’s go down to the seiar system, and see how
old Adam’s boys are shaping. Wonder how old
Beelzebub is getting on by this time ?” Once
more they cleave the ether, darting past systems
where the other fellows called “go it, boys," and
drank their health. They came within sight of
the earth. A globe far off it seemed A little ship
was creeping along the silver-fringed island of the
South. A little man in black walked the deck.
They enter port. Thirty little men come aboard
and read a paper to him. They hear the thirty
little men inform him that heaven was excited
over his arrival, and that they blessed the Al*
mighty for despatching him here. The three
angels stood right over their heads, and a laugh
such as only the everlasting plains could hold
passed from one to another as they mounted the
skies. “ Old Beelzebub is in it yet,” they laughed.
But the little figures heard nothing; and they
didn’t look up.
Another injustice to the worrukin man
At no distant period in the history of this fair an'd
favoured colony the leaders of thought among *’ ne
democracy could hold forth with impunity in
Hyde Park, and launch their bolts of rhetoric
against their rulers in no measured terms But
the Government of the day, becoming fully alive
to the fact that the Park haranguers were running
the Assembly very close in the matter of ornate
oratory, determined to curtail their field of opera-
tions. and a departmental ukase was issued pro-
hibiting the Park as a hunting Iground for popu-
larity and fame. Then the " bone and sinew ’'of
the country wended their way to the “ statoo ”
where, beneath the shadow of the mantle of Albert
the Good, they gave voice to their wrongs in
vigorous, it Jinelegant, language. But just as:
they fondly imagined that at length they had
found rest for the soles of their number thirteens
and could renew their fulminations against &
corrupt, and effete Government, a
Cabinet consultation was held, and an order issued
to fence in the “ statoo.” So when the next burn-
ing question had to be tackled by the irrepressible
orators they found that “Muster Btooart” had
Stolen a march on them, and that henceforth the
repose of the late Prince Consort would be undis-
turbed by the gentle cooing of Tichborne Smith
the rounded periods of the fervid Flower, or the
fierce fulminations of the impassioned Brown
Then it was that Flower, that disinterested friend
of the worrukin’ man up-ended himself on &
candle-box in the street, and lifted up his voice in
fiery denunciation of the tyrannical Government
that tried to place its iron heel on the neck of the
publlo. “’Ere we are,” said the Demosthenes of
the labour office, “ driven about from pillar to
post. Why, we’re in no better position now than
the Salvation Harmy, as has to travel about the
streets. But we ll show the Guv’ment that we’il
bo heard, fur we’ll go down to the ’Ouse and ’old
forth in front of it. The ’Ouse is frightened of us,
and that’s why they wants to shut us up.” And
while Muster Stooart and the rest of the ’Ouse
shivered in their shoes at the dread prospect, the
meeting adjourned to think out what compensa-
tion should be given to Mr. Andersen.
A SON’S MISCALCULATIONS.
“WAIT TILL YE SEE ME FOOL THE GUV’NUR.”
“D’YE THINK HE TWIGGED ME?”
CRUSHED AGAIN!


Health and Beauty
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
x<beum. Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with joss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally, when all other methods fail.
BAD BLOOD, Scrofulous, Inherited and Con-
tagious Humors, Glandular Swellings,
Ulcerous Patches in the Throat and Mouth,
Abscesses, Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores,
Scurvy, Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enaemla, Pyaemia,
Loss of Strength, Chronio Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively oured by the Cuticura. Remed ie
CUTICURA REMEDIES
I COMMENCED to use your Cuticura Reme-
dies last July. My hdad and face and some
parts of my body were almost raw. My head was
covered with scabes and sores, and my suffering
was fearful. I bad tried everything T had heard
of in the East and West. My case was considered
a very bad one. I have now not a particle of Skin
Humor about me, and my case is considered
wonderful. It has been the means of selling a
great many of your Citttciira Remedies In this
part of the country.
Decatur, M ich. MRS. S. E. WHIPPLE.
Cure sworn to at the British Consulate.
Sold by all chemists and druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignee*.
I HAD running sores on my left leg for seven
years, which reduced my limb to simple skin
and bone, and unable to support my weight unless
swathed in bandages. A consultation of physi-
cians at the City H ospital of Boston decided that
it would have to be amputated to save my life.
Such was my condition when I began to use the
Cuticu-A a Remedies, which have effectually cured
me, in gratitude for which T make this public
statement, of my case.
JOSEPH A. PALMER,
Hudson, Mass.
Price, Cdticura, 50 cents; Soap, 35 cents ; Re-
solvent, $l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, 17.8. A.
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
18 NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B, All branches of Photography executed in the most artistio style.
N.B.—BOTD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manager.
T7IOR SALE, OR TO LEASE,
MENZIES’ HOTEL,
in the finest position in Melbourne.
I®- Established upwards of 30 years.
Receipts exceed £20,000 per annum.
H. BYRON MOORE, & McLEOD,
Exchange, Melbourne.
GOOLALTA WINES,
SUA ER MEDAL BORDEAUX, *
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 George-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
?P
Stir'
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
AMBEIO-AJST OBG-iiiTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
1®“ ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
IV. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOF NEW SOUTH WALBB.
COM PAG NON I CATERING CO. (Limited).
™ a , dine: and oldeBt Catering Establishment in N.S. W. Caterers to the A.J .C., etc., Ac.
T "" d,r “ M f<)r B *" 8 ’ w<, ‘‘ d ‘°* s ’
1U AiE BAB AND SMOKING LOUNGK. Bed Vca daily, 11 a.in. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
_ , E. D. TOLLEM ACHE, Licensee and General Manacer,
Compagnonf Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney. b
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOs. each,
Warranted for throe years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 PHt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GARTON’S HOTEL,
BWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARLES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
SINGER & CO.
w.
J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S. W„
85 MARKET STREET.
largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
SENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronie
Disease, Impediments t® Marriage, <fcc. flow
to choose a partner for life, so as to live happy
How to regain and preserve your health. &e!
Address— tt. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street
Surry Hills, Sydney.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
BEVEN Is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application wa
have called our new Machine ’
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
WHOLESALE IMPORTERS :
TOZER and CO.
229 CLARENCE STREET.
HUDSON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
UNEQUALLED SAFETY. EXTREME SIMPLICITY. GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
1'
SSB
1
8$
: •
■
iv
.SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. 0T SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Redfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“If you arc suffering from poor health
l or languishing on a bed of sickness,
' take cheer, for
Hop Bitters will oure you.
M If you are simply ailing, if you feel
* weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If yov. are a man of business or
‘ labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ or drinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ nation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often tho case,
Stop Bitters will relieve you.
“If you are in the workshop, on the
‘ farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feei
* that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘ unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heai-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks : impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
* the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening tne mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeakNervousMen
a
*
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, pruiu~tuie deesy
and failure to perform life**
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will And a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous Manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
Btomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Xervous Debility and
, - , Physieni JJecayisnmformly
successful because baeed on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct Methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full informatiop and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO.. 52CastlerMgh St-.B^dnay
MURRUMBURRA H TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong 1 HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers. on the above contract. Long
job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents, the newly-married
and those about to marry, may obtain much
valuable information, which may prevent years of
suffering, by simply sending a stamped addressed
envelope for reply to C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY. Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the mostemineat Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address-ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. 0. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.O. Box 673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen's, No.
11. 52 Castlereagh-strcet, Sydney. Note.—Office
and WaitiDg-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
£IO,OO©.—9IELBOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.;
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney,
desires to point out to the public generally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All persons,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
the books of the Club. 2nd. Every opportunity is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
drawing, who choose to make application for
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, one is almost sure to win
one or other.
Plan or Distribution :
The above facts and figures speak forthemselves,
and it will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £30.0, by far the large t
offered in any consultation, isa fortune, which will
be secured by investing 10s.; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round sum; our third carries off £500;
and our prizes are far in advance of all competitors
for public support. Our drawing takes place on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it will take place before. Result of
drawing sent at once to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do:
if gold be sent, register letter, tend addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Address—J. J. ALLEN, E6q., Turf Commission
•Vgeot. Tattersall’s Buildings, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
P.B. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
of the winner of our first grand prize of £3OOO.
and also the names of thoee who win our other
great arises }a this grand Consultation.
BAKffiffK CfXSP-^r^
M
Bargains in Music.
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE.
Slightly Soiled and Surplus Music, which has
been separated from the general stock In order to
effect startling reductions.
FOR ONE MONTH ONLY.
Pieces from 2d. each. Grand opportunity for
layintr in a stook of good music, at low prices.
Notice to the Public.— The newest and
choicest music received every mail. Orders sup-
plied to all parts of the colony on receipt of P.O.
orders or postage stamps. Postage 2d. extra each
piece. Choirs and Societies supplied with Anthems,
Glees, and every kind of part music. Brass, Reed,
and String Band Music always on hand.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE-STREET.
James Lawson &Sons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William and Boomerang Streets
NEW DESIGNS IN BEST WILTON PILE
AND BRUSSELS CARPETS.
BRUSSELS CARPETS at ss. PER YARD,
INCLUDING MAKING AND LAYING.
▲ Reduction of 20 per cent, present on
Stock,
IN ORDER TO MAKE ROOM FOR
NEW SHIPMENTS
NOW LANDING.
DEBILITY,
LOSS OF VIGOUR,
Nervous and Heart Diseases
EFFECTUALLY CURED.
Patients really desiring skilful curative treat-
ment, should consult
Doctor W. R. PARKER
whose wonderful skill in treating these complaints,
places him amongst the foremost specialists of the
age; certainly first in Australia. The most con-
fidential relations between the Doctor and liis
patients are observed.
CONSULTATION FREE.
69 HUNTER STREET,
Three doors from Macquarie Street
D ENTISTR YUN RIVALLED
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Street*.
SST" Teeth painlessly extracted by Lausrhinir Gae
■fitber Spray, Methyline. and Chloroform.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousness, Nervous Debility, Liver Com.
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
rower, Mental and Physical Depression. Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. CAUTION.-
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosohodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi.
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “ MALA BAR ” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SERIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THE “Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thanks to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their well-acknowledged
strict attention, coupled wl h thorough integrity,
to make the "Malabar” Consultations by far the
most popular of any in the colonies.
First horse ... ~ £lOOO
Second ditto 400
Third ditto' 200
Starters divide 200
Non-starters 200
£2OOO
At the request of a large number of our sub-
scribers we have arranged to make our Shares but
ss. each, Instead of £l, as before, which, of course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as It affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand Pounds.
We shall send also a single ticket to any address
on receipt of 55.. which will entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus free on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed;
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Tickets sent by return post. Address, by letter
only,
G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street; Sydney.
D RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
RKRTGORFSIr
ESSENCEoeUFE
fe only infallible remedy for
//ERybl/sJjEBILITYT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous aud
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which eauses incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements ol' the human frame,
and enabling man to fultil his most 6acred obliga-
•ions In casesat 135., or four quantities is oneior
J6b.; if by coach. 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and i 0., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
YANKEE DOODLE
£OOOf|
8881
t-
fAA
0/ *5ON* S'3»* 5 43
1>!?VO N
CONQUEROR
TWIST & PLUG
'.y
. CoSquerOß ,
yox populi : i
. This mighty power has built the DIXSON’S great Tobacco Factor? How? The
. » voice of the People defiance the FAMKEK DOODLE and CONQUEROR Tobaccos their own
demanded the supplt Dljcson and Sons leeoonded—and hence a Tobacco Factory having no equal in
i Southern Hemisphere, and consuming tbe bulk of all the Imported American lleaf Tobacco?
According to the Hindoo Patriot, “the
Ming of Cambodia has seat to the Buddhist Pali
College, in Colombo, Ceylon, a number of gifts,
the most important of which is a brush made of
His Majesty's own hair, to be used for sweeping the
room in which the image of Buddha is kept.” His
Majesty may be prettly humble, but he’s not yet
up to concert pitch. The humblest man we ever
knew was a fellow who, not long ago, married a
woman whom he used to describe as “agoddess,’
and, in a week, the police, who heard a noise, went
in and found him “wiping the floor” with her.
And it wasn't the floor of the temple of Buddha,
either. It was the kitchen floor. She had b.'eu a
governess, and was not well up in cookery, so she
ad fried the schnapper in castor-oil.
A medical lecturer finds that the use of
amesthetics, In fhe old-fashioned sense of the term,
is a gigantic error and a delusion. In his owu
firactice, whenever he has to reduce a patient to
□sensibility in order to perform an amputation,
he employs a much more simple method. He pre-
scribes: "Two ounces of whisky to be adminis-
tered by the mouth; the dose to be repeated every
ten minutes, until complete drunkenness is
reached.” The comatose state of the victim may
then, if the operator pleases, be improved upon
by adding one or two inhalations of ether or
chloroform, but this extra precaution may be
suite well dispensed with, and the operation is
effected under the most gratifying conditions.
** No manifestation of pain” has been observed by
the learned surgeon, “ no unhealthy action in any
stump, and not a single death to mar the report.’’
Such a song in praise of whisky has not been sung
tor many a day. The Lancet condemns this style
of thing, »nd says it is open to “ righteous con-
demnation but we should say It would find con-
siderable favour among laymen in Australia, more
especially in Blue Ribbon circles.
From Alfred Ann, dearest,—l am
very lonely: forgivo me,—come home. J.G.”
Now, don’t you hurry, Ann. You take your time.
He was very Independent after that little barney
you had about who should step out on the coldoil-
eloth that wet morning and take in the milk, but
you can just take our word for it he is orumpled
up now. You should have seen him trying to
•ook tee flsh the morning alter you left! It was a
Right to see the bream each time he snatched up
something wanted for the cooking, come leaping
out on the floor. It was a sweet thing, too, “ Ann,
dearest,” to behold him mafciDg coffee in the tea-
pot/, and forgetting to take the leaves out. Quite
a crowd of the neighbours, also, assembled iu the
next yard to behold him holding the screaming
family under the water-tap, and afterwards rasp-
ing it with a wall-duster. When breakfast was
being got ready, “ Bister Ann,” it was a per-
fect harlequinade to behold the smashing of
the crockery, as a distracted husband vainly en-
deavoured to lay the table. In the end, Billy, the
eldest, drank out of the sauce-boat, little Cis out
of a soup-plate, while the appropriation of his
sister’s mug, labelled “A present to little Jane,”
by .young Ronald had the effect of causing a
bread-and-butter bombardment of a distracted
sire, who. when last seen by the family, was gnaw-
ing a raw red herving in the front room, with his
forehead pressed against the mantelpiece. When
it was five minutes to his time of starting for his
office, Bobby was found to have swallowed a
bream-bone and Cis to have sweetened her coffee
with half a cake of black-lead. Then, while 35
neighbours had all gone for the doctors they most
patronised, itr was discovered that somebody had
shot the retriever dog. who bad got out
and had a fowl - breakfast, uninvited, round
the earner. A kind, motherly neighbour offered
to look out for the house that day, and on the un-
fortunate tenant’s departure, instantly let the
children wander away, and entertained balf-tbe-
gtroet in the front parlour on the pick of the
groceries, and all the square gin that was left in
the bouse. No, Annl Bide yet awee. Wait until
dad has paid the lines on the school summonses,
got a new quilt in place of the big one that Johnny
burned with a tlrc-stiok; hold on until the man has
baled the water out of the copper they drowned
the kittens in, and the glazier (who got half-a-
erown on account) comes back to mend all the top
windows, which were broken by the neighbours,
under the impression that when the juveniles had
set fire to the curtains, and the house was in a
blaze, the father was lying drunk under the four-
poster. Lots of time. And you may be “ happy
yet.”
. These be parlous times, indeed. Theseoond
seal spoken of In the Apocalypse has burst wide
open again; the red horse is being saddled up, and
his rider Is preparing to take peace from the earth,
and crumple up things in general; the dogs of war
strain madly at the leash, the vultures sniff the
battle from afar, and nearer, clearer, deadlier than
before we eatoh the dread sound of the cannon’s
oneniDg roar. Butter has also gone up another
penny a pound, and the great Bartholdi statue
isn't higher than the present price of corned beef.
Rut no matter; there’s a sweet littie cherub run-
ning the Germ anton Times and Tumberumba
Advocate who haß his eye on the tricky doings of
European schemers, and who, when the crisis
comes will be found able and willing to rear up on
hin hind legs and cave in the head of that crisis at
a moment s notice. On Friday last, the divine affla-
tus which the «ermanton genius had Ailed himself
ud with the night before broke loose, and in a spirit
of prophetic frenzy, he wrote: “ The stormy petree
Twhatever the Satan that is] shows itself to us in
tRe dragging down of the British flag on the west
coast of Africa.” A vain attempt to shake salt on
eh« stormv petree’stail appears to have been made
fSst here, but the wary bird was too fly, and the
Southern seer candidly declares: “We confess to
some degree of confusion in attempting to solve
the behaviour of the German captain." This, how-
ever is at once accounted for by the next sen-
tence which says; “At this moment we are not in
possession of detailed facts, but it is a fact that the
British flag has bton removed and the Teutonic
(sir) banner placed in its stead.’’ Such startling
intelligence as this, naturally sends one's blood up
to T5O”, and impels him to grab hold of a log of
wood and crack the “Tentonic” duffer’s spine in
with it but the man from lumberumba sets our
minds at rest onee more by observing: “ Mr. Glad-
stone is a man of extraordinary genius [Tumber-
umba for appetite] and this Knßign removal is a fact
which cannot be expußged by any other means
than a due apology, which the peace-loving r re-
mior of England will promptly demand if he be
possessed of the pluck of a mouse.” For the sake
of the Grandoleman's reputation, we trust he can
muster the necessary amount of courage. If he
cannot, there is no other course for England to
nursue but to throw William down a well, aDd ap-
point the Tumberumba Terror in his place.
Catching on to another trouble, our warlike q :ill-
wolloper says: “What may become of General
Gordon in the meantime we hardly care to predict,
but we can aflirin that his present extreineli
critical position in Egypt is one sought on his own
part and not iu accordance with Gladstonian
directions.” This will be considerable news for
Mr Gordon, and if he has a spark of manliness in
him he will tender his resignation the moment bn
read’s that crushing sentence. Carefully corking
his favourite ginger beer bottle, and hastily plant-
ing It under a board in the floor, Gladstone’s friend
catches on to the “Bismarckian trouble once
more, and mantullv declares: w e have no offer
(sit) to learn that England is at iault. It appears
to us that the source of provocation emanates
elsewhere. Anyhow, we are prepared to meet it,
and when G( rmany is prepared to tight at sea (and
will be all at sea, we may imagine), then comes the
tug of war.” That’s the idea. Wait till Germany
is prepared to fight Tumberumba at sea, and then
vou snail see what you shall see, and don't you
forget itl The time for Germany to be s iuelched
is now at hand, and if Germany's hordes are at-
tacked by Knaland’s braves with one-hali the
ferocious enthusiasm with which Germany’s sau-
-1 sages a*-e wolfed by the wild man of Tumberum-
; has woo(is,.Jt’« a clear case of “bung '' with the
whole of, theTTeuton’s kingdom. The Iranco-
v Chinese .trouble will be the subject of our ioutbern
war correepondentta remarks next week, and alter
'wrestling witn that he will devote his attention to
jibe best wav of tuir iDg a well-worn Sunday coat,
g, that the sun »<*’ u* *er strike ou the shiney
tbft&nciegtj^armeut.


THE
IGNO
2Pia.xa.o_
i
mw
|jP?
ill AND CO.’S
FAMOUS
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us— blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to. show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspriog? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Plano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
isguaranteed to withstand any dimatein Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, beoause the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be had'on very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE. '
PAIN
MOULTON'S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
.i. URALGIA; HEADACHE, TOOTHAC JCE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. BCALI' I, &c and
iftken internally cures DIARRHtEA, J 1 YSE£;j.AKY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other lUtbrno aches
uid pains.
Price, 2/- Sold Every where,
C. E. MOULTON, sole prop :: tor,
MKU F 3 OIT KNTPJ -A.N3D o' - DNEY.
PAINT
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
4 8 AFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for N«r-
f\_ vors and General Debility, and all complainta
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonio
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. 4s. 6d.. or 265. a case.
Sole Proprietors, MARSH ALL BROTHERS, M.P.B.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, 104 and
W Market-streot. near Hvde Park, Sydney, and
3?itt-street, Circular-quay. TAKE NO BUBBTI-
-
, AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. 1 tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. I am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
Rockingham, Vt., July 15, 1882.
* Croup.— A Mother’s Tribute.
“ While in the country last winter my little
boy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. Crane.”
Lake Crystal, Minn., March 13, 1882. -j,
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by the use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.
Byhalia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer a
Iherry Pectoral, believing as I do that
mt for its use I should long since have died
rom lung troubles. E. BRAGDON.
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
* prepared by ®
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
BLLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO„
Wholesale 'Agents.
*2
ROWLAND3 ODONTO is the best, pur-
est, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth.
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row-
lands’ Odonto has always proved itself to be.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a beautifully
pure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
the lid a certificate of purity from Dr. Redwood,
Ph.D., F.C.8., &c. 8old in three tins : white, rose,
and cream.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL can now
be also bad in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations
Wholesale and Retail Agents, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
New south wales.-monstbr consul-
tation on Hawkesbury Handicap, Metro-
politan Stakes, and Melbourne Cup, 1884. Capital.
£5000, in 10,000 shares at 10s. each. About 225
prizes—£3500 for horses, and £3500 prize gifts.
Plan of Distribution .-—First horse, winner in
each event. £1000; second horse, £500; third horse,
£250 : starters, £350; non-starters £500-£2500.
First prize gift. £600; second orize gift, £300; third
prize gift, £150; 10 at £50. £500; 10 at £35, £250;
30 at £30, £400 ; 30 at £10, £200 ; 20 at £5, £100-
£2500.
Application by letter only, addressed W. Burn-
bard, liO Elizabeth-street; or Box 832, G.P.O.,
Sydney. Cheques payable to W. Burnhard or
bearer ; if cash, to register letters.
P.S.—Please state for which event. Prospectus
by application.
’$ BOOT
I w [J *
C^SYDNEY
HE
EITHER FOR
PRICE or QUALITY
404 ,
CEORCE si
c 0 lilt
BLEND
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY .—Thin Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
- ' . CATTELL & CO., Sole
of taste and flavour,
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
808 GEORGE STREET.
v »tfbi jsy
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LE~AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHIBKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
Or MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 Georga-strnet,
Established 1864,
HAB THE LARGEST AND BEST-ABSORTRD
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
gP” Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
The Federal Consultation Company
Herewith submit their new programme on the
MELBOURNE CUP of 1884
Run first week in November.
Capital. . £‘is,ooo, in Shares of £1 each.
Promoters Jas. McLeod, Esq., Melbourne ;
Hy. Ford, Esq., Bydney ; P. Ingram, Esq., Perth :
W. J. Erskine, Esq., Adelaide ; J. F. Me Bain, Esq,,
Brisbane ; all genuine names, and men of good
standing. Promoters guarantee to take up first
1000 shares, and have already subscribed £lC<jo,
@r 1000 PRIZES GUARANTEED.
Plan of distribution.
First horse
Seoond „ ..
Third „
Starters divide ..
Non-starters ~ ..
10 Prizes of £5OO ..
Total .. £25,000
The Public are respectfully requested to join the
Promoters in the above enterprise, the bona fids
of which is unquestionable. Money promptly re-
turned should any subscriber wish to withdraw
before the drawing. Drawing held 80th Ootober
next. Conducted publioly in presence of Share-
holders ; representatives of Press admitted. Result
posted, and advertised in Town and Country
Journal. Send P. 0.0., Notes, Cheques, and 3d.
extra for reply and result (registe red if convenient.)
Write for Prospeotus giving fuller particulars. En-
close self-addressed envelope. Addri ss all Letters
and make all Orders payable to the Secretary, as
under ROBERT RAMBAY, Commission Agent,
405 George-street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
15
8
&
£
BSS
%
Sg
o
*
-<
s
LIB
%
(A
%
&
$
®
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
AAAAxAAXX>tA
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
QTto-e 3=3©lia,“tol© 33"u.grgrlee!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
PrHOTO GRAPHIC
1 STOCK
IMPORTERS 4
ir
20?
figiii
%
r
%
'
to
s
mi UIIKI:
I II
rzr
V
P^vCAMERAS, |all W h
- , r CARDS .CHEMICALS. r l d P h 'C
Iqents tor »m^\
iw-i W.JOHNSON&SONS ~Tggr;
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD -
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLB
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES. ETC.


Take Hop Bitters three times a day, and
you will have no doctors’ pills to pay, Pee.
PEARL CEMENT,
The Greatest American Prize-winning Discovery of the
19th century.
ABTICLE3 MENSES CANNOT BE SEP ABATES.
AMIEICAH JTSVELT7 CO., 203 Pitt St. (Only) Sydney.
SAVE TS3 PIECES 1
Use Pearl Cement, the
greatest American.
Discovery of the 19th
century—never known
to fail—for mending
China,Crockery Glass,
Wood, I rory, Leather,
&c. Price Is. per bot-
tle. Sold everywhere.
Send to the American
Novelty C0.,2C3 Pitt St.,
Sydney, for -whatever
you may require
whether the article is
in tlieCatalogue or no.
They deal in nearly
everything..
Toothache Tlnctus, the
best remedy known for
giving instant relief.
Price Is bottle 5 13 fld
by post.
Send 2d. stamp for
272-paged Catalogue.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
203 Pitt Street. Sydney,
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYD NEY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
VARIOUS VERSES.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hymn to Humbug.
VERSES UNTO VICE.
( continued .)
When Saxon Monarchs ruled the Heptarchy,
Before Duke William crossed the Channel sea
With his mailed knights (if judged by those who
trace
bfescent from them, a most prolific race,)
The Witenageniote met to debate,
And settle all the business of the State;
Saw that the right was done, through all the land,
And dealt out Justice with an even hand;
Its Senators feared not the Royal frown,
But e'en decreed who next should wear the crown;
Its name, translated, truthfully supplies
Its best description—” Meeting of the Wise.”
But William’s triumph on dark Senlaoh’s field,
Not only made the opposing army yield,
But, with th’ self-same conquest, overthrew
Each rising hope the vanquished Baxons knew;
And of their liberty each eve the knell
Was sounded by the tyrant’s curfew bell.
Then, iu the ancient Witan’s honoured place,
The knights and barons of the Norman race
Raised up a Parliament (the word, translate,
Parler to speak, and mentir to misstate);
Two things which (if the Hansard’s page be true)
Some members strive, and wPh success, to do.
At first, a feeble copy of the Court,
Which it succeeded, and a base support
Of Royal lust; but strengthening, day by day.
Forced England’s kings its mandates to obey;
And, tilled with patriots of the people’s choice,
In aid of Freedom, gave its vigorous voice.
Transplanted thence to the Antipodes,
It shared the fate of many English trees,
Which, strong and fruitful on their native soil,
Here grant no guerdon to the rustic’s toil;
But, bending to the sun’s untempered ray,
For lack of moisture, droop and fade away.
And thus our Parliament (in form the same
As that which justly bears a world-wide fam<?,
And wisely framed to suit the nation’s needs,
By noble men controlled, does glorious deeds),
Though blessed with rights long centuries have
won,
Gives out poor fruit, where the immoderate sun
Of human power glows, with heat intense,
Unchecked by honour, truth, or common sense.
Some men there are among the M.L.A.’s
Deserving of the Muse’s highest praise:
Men who would soorn to join in Humbug’s train,
And prostitute their power for sake of gala.
But such true patriots, few and far between.
Like aogels—often heard of —seldom seen,
Are so surrounded by King Humbug’s crew,
That we inoline to doubt their virtue, too:
And dark suspicions, like a shadow, stay
By him who claims the letters M.L.A.
In England, when a youth returned from school
Is proved a dunce, and shows himself a fool,
So that he may not linger in the lurch,
His parents, wise, devote him to the Church;
But, over here, in sunny New South Wales,
Another custom, with like power, prevails—
’Tis this: whene’er a man has been a Jack*
Of-all-trades, and in each has proved his lack
Of onmmon honour, industry, and thrift,
His friends disoover he has wondrous gift
Of statesmanship, and so their aid they lend
To bring him forward as the “ Poor Man’s Friend.”
The name is good, just note its humour grim,
All friends are poorer who have trusted Mm;
And yet, by oily speech and manner bland,
Schemes of reform, and ever ready hand—
The Orange vote—and wrongs o’ the Working
Class,
He wins the seat, and sports his Kailway Pass;
(Or, we may say, in racing phrase, that he,
Although opposed by Brains and Honesty,
Don’s Humbug’s colours, and from end to end.
Pulls off the Member’s Plate with "Poor Man's
Friend”).
But, with true modesty he never shows
In Parliament, bis thought of others’ woes,
To speech on poor mens’ wrongs his mouth Is
closed.
Save when the Immigration vote’s proposed;
Then he talks loudly of the sons of toil,
And poor, but honest, tillers of the soil;
But when that's passed his anger dies away,
Till roused again on Nomination day.
Then there's the Member whose peculiar care
Is to obtain his District’s proper share
Of the expenditure (and this, please note,
Is Just the price for which he sells his vote).
His only aim, his ore and constant thought,
Is to contrive that others may be brought
To join with him in his conspiracies.
By holding forth inducements such as these:—
You help my bridge, and I will vote with you,
When you attempt to put your railway through ;”
“ Assist to gain this school at Lonely Hill,
And l will speak in favour of your Bill; ”
Or, “ Help me get this compensation paid,
And, in Divisions, count on me for aid;
Or, “Just resume my land to form a lane,
And I'll turn round and vote with you again.”
Thus he deems Politics a useless load,
Not worth attention, until every road
In his electorate is “first-class” made.
And rivers bridged—not for the traveller's aid—
But jmt to hold some wavering vote secure,
And make his seat in Parliament more sure.
The path of legislation he will block.
If Toadyville require a tlve-foot clock;
.Settlers may groan and tyranny may rule
For all he oares, if he but get his school:
Justice’s sun, like Joohua's, may stand still,
If he but wins his bridg3 for Toadyville.
’Tis said that once just such a delegate
Moved, on behalf of his electorate,
For money for a bridge—at least a score
Of bridges had been voted him before
For that same stream—and so a member rose,
And in sarcastic tone, said, ” I propose,
That we may stop, once and for all, his din
About this river, that we roof it in.”
Of many a Senator the only claim
That he can show to wreath of lasting Fame,
Is money wasted in the District whence
He gained his right to go at th’ State's expense;
If such an one, a stranger might express
His wish to know what creed did he profess ?
Was his endeavour to reform abuse ?
And whatsound measures did be introduce ?
Did he refuse, or show his willingness,
To change the libel law, and free The Press ?
These several questions may be answered thus:
He never showed himself solicitous
About these points, he only cared to try
How many votes his tulluence could buy;
He never strove to climb Fame's toilsome ridge,
There stands his monument—the Mucki liridoe.
Esau, when by keen hunger desperate grown,
Sold the inheritance by right his own
For trilling value, and for this his name,
Through every age, has borne reproach and shame.
Hut a more shameful bargain here is made,
For, by betraying trust., the price is paid
For vote of road, or bridge; and though it’s true
That no gain to the seller may accrue.
Yet he who steals to increase his neighbour’s pelf,
May sometimes do so to enrich himself.
But steady, Muse, suppose we take a spell.
And then, perohanoe, another song may tell
Of other Solons, of Maoquarie-street,
Who, by some Lodge's aid, have won their seat.
[?]MAEL.
Au gelle.
Little girl in
Surry Hills
Used to w ear a
Frock with frills;
Loved her Pa, the
Dogs and cats;
Hated beetles,
Hated rats.
Pa put powder
On the floor,
And with rats he
Went to war.
Killed the vermin,
One by one;
Squelched the beetles—
Twas such fun!
One night Pa went
To the show;
Little girl crept
Down tip-toe;
Softly ope’d the
Parlour door.
Powder saw blaze
On the floor.
Powder looked so
Pretty, it
Tempted her to
Taste a hit.
Very grave man
Did arrive;
Said he’d fix it
“ One pound five.”
Quite high up be-
Hind the moon,
Little fay plays
Out of tune.
Other angels
Pout, “ Oh, that’s
New kid sent here
By the rats.”
VANITY FAIR.
The most remarkable cookery-book ever
issued is the size of the Times (London) newspaper.
It is sumotuously bound, and each copy is £l5O.
The illustrations are life-size photographs of the
dishes of viands described, perfectly coloured, and
the writing has been done by a French co<>k. Emile
Bernard. Only one hundred copies were struck off
at a total expense of £15,000; and the idea ot pub-
lication emanated from the Emperor of Germany,
to whom, as patron, the book is dedicated The
grounds of a certain lawn-tennis club are close to
a railway station, when a train halts, the pas-
sengers and officials stop t>> look at the play. At
first, it was feared that the lady members of the
club would not play under such surveillance. The
only result so far, however, is the increased beauty
of the ladies’ lawn-tennis dresses. .. Charles Ueade
wrote: “I owe the larger half of what I am to a
good mother, the rest to the fact that my grand-
father married the daughter of the village Dlack-
smitb.” The confession of an honest soul. Brains
first, vitality next, ancestry last. We know people
who always put their ancestry first. But, then,
they haven’t got the other advantages....“ Do you
play much, Miss Vercy ? ” he asked, as they strolled
y ow doth the thoughtful cabman
f Angle for the passer-by !
3c winds his whip about your neck.
Or gets it in your eye.
He trails it far behind him,
And mayhap with deadly ‘swish”;
It catches you about the gills.
And “ takes ” you like a liSh !
And the fiendUh cabman chuckles —
As he hurries on bis way,
With bis victim dragging after—
“ I am quite in luck to-day I ’’
How often, O I how often,
As-along we gaily skip
O’er the highway's busy/froefiiag,
Have we dodged the/cabman’s whip f
out after the waltz. “ No, I am out of practice,” i
she replied. “ Out of practice ? Well, 1 didn't i
think so, as I passed your house last night.
Weren’t you playing?” “ Last night!” she echoed,
“ why, I was at the opera.” Then tboughfully she
added: “ Why, it was last night the mau came and
tuned our niano.’ The Queen's **More Leaves”
has reached its twenty-first thousand. Loyalty!
Ladies' handkerchiefs in Paris this season are
made to match dresses. If the gown is brown, the
kerchief has a brown border; if striped or
flowered, the cambric matches accordingly in
colour A new dress fabric is a kind of serge
quite waterproof, being lined with rubber cloth
on one side, and yet quite flexible and agreeable to
look on a Now York paper, the World, has
started publishing the portraits of the society
girls, and, as the portraits are obtained from the
very best photos and beautifully produced, they
are an immeme rage. Some fathers, terribly in-
dignant at their daughters being thus published,
have applied for injunctions to stop the printing.
.. Speaking of the young giris who flock into the
circulating libraries, Zola says: “Any story, no
matter how foolish, is good enough for them, pro-
vided it be sufficiently sentimental. Neither poetry
of language, nor truthful observation of life and
manners is asked for.” Zola Is right; woman must
have her emotions catered for. And it is curious
that girls will boldly ask the keeper of a library
for books that they would blush to be seen read-
ing by a young man ...Teetotallers say water
is the best drink. But isn't it rather selfish
to be always wanting the best of everything
Ada Beach, of Bethel, U.S., secured a husband in
the following artful way. Employed in a hat fac-
tory, she wrote her name, age, and size of shoe
under the baud of a masher hat. One Henry
Segur duly discovered the inscription, opened cor-
respondence, and won Ada. All the factory girls
now put their names on hat-bands A nice record
of hat-tractions. ...Men—no, dudes-now wear
bustles. Fact. The arrangement is made of hair
cloth and ste 1 ribs, and it is fixed in the waist of
the coat with the steels reaching down into the
coat-tails to make rbem set smooth and have the
proper spring. It’s about time for women to take
nut patentß for the few devices they have left .
Sutherland Edwards, who wrote the history of
dancing in an English magazine, entertained King
Tawhiao in Berkely-street last month. Women,
chiefly middle-aged to antique, actually decked the
old tattoo block with flowers ...In America, the
caprice ot the hour among ladies is a tight surtout
or ulster, which fits the form with a nicety quite
alarming. It falls without a fold, or plait, or
■wrinkle, from the neok to the foot, not leaving
even the hem of the drew visible. Jt does not
measure more that) a yard and a half around the
bottom. It is sometimes trimmed down the front t
but the back is an unrelieved expanse, and de-
mands from the wearer not only (tfflpful move-
ment, but much self-possession—wen are better
able to endure hardships between the ages of 20
and 30 than at any other time. Most men marry
between 30 and 30 A man has invented a “ bache-
lor’s needle.” But the best sort of needle for a
bachelor is a nice little one with two bright eyes
See the point? They were just a month married.
“Dolf, dear,” she murmured, “ do you believe in
ghosts ?” “ No, darling.” “ Then, Dolf,” she said,
softly, “that ghost to show you are not supersti-
tious;” and they both turned on the other side
and were soon asleep... Descriptions of Lily Lang-
try have been as legion as the cheerful mosquito
in summer, but it was reserved for a ban
Francisco critic to discover that “ she has
the large, soft eye of the Jersey cow.’.—
Wanted—a friend, who wih recognise us when we
have to wear patched clothes, who will give us a
hand when wg are being kicked down hill, who
will lend a pound without requiring live pounds
security, who will speak up for us when the odds
are two to one, and who will talk the same at our
hack as before our face. This friend is wanted by
ten thousand times ten thousaud men. Is there any-
one can till the bill, outside the good old mother.
A Burwood girl asked her brother, Why Da
bicycle like cow's milk?" Ho said, ‘ dunno.
And she told him it strengthened the calves.... •. The
last development of London fashion is the threat-
ened abolition of stays. For some time, corsets
have been getting sensibly smaller, and now they
have become so short that many fashionable
women with admired figures wear what Is really
little more than a Swiss belt. French women
never wear dresses drawn tight over a mass ot
whalebone with that stiff, drum-l'.ke appe»ranoe
so suggestive of discomfort. They may lace the
waist tightly, but above that all is loose, and easy-
fitting to the shoulders, arms, and bust. It is not
only healthier, hut handsomer; and this is
confidential-it is one of the secrets of Lang-
try's grace. She never wore high stays .....
Patti is 40 ...At the Kiceardi benefit, a firm-look-
ing woman bad planted herself in a reserved seat.
By and bye the owner appear d, and the urbane
usher asked the lady “jumper” to vacate. She
declined. “You cannot be allowed to .reman*,
madam.” “Iwill.” “If you do not rise, ’
urged the usher, “I must have you removed.
“Touch me, if you dare,’’ observed the “lady,
glaring; “just lay a finger on me, and I'll holler
lire!” He looked round at the packed house, and
—the lady remained Aphtfciie is a new imitation
of gold, used for cheap jewellery The drapers
advertise their splendid Spring costumes as a sur •
source of delight. It is only fair to say that the
delight is eotirelv on the side of the wife. ..At a
masquerade ball to t.be inmates of > n Insane
Asylum, Paris, the girls were allowed to dress how
tney liked Not a single one chose a low-necked
dress. Which would indicate that when ladies go
mad they become modest—A lady who visited
the great Gounod quietly some cherry-
stones, which she imagined were the remnants or
of his repast. Soon afterwards, on his bung at
her house, the lady showed him a cherrystone te<
in di.m mds, and, with laughs and blushes, told
him how she had stolen the stone from his dinner-
plate. I never eat fruit,” -aid Gounod; “it was
John, my footman, who put that plate of cherries
on the table when he heard you ring! ' ....
Few discoveries in art have been so worn erfnl »s
L)r Hand-Smith’s production of endolit'ns. Ibis
diecoverv, the result of many years’ experiments,
is briefly that certain meta'llc combinations ot
chemical matter will penetrate stone or marble
straight down to any depth, in a clear, defined line,
! . ithoi.t spreading. That is, any pa nting on t lie
surface goes right through. It is doue on the sur-
face just as easily as on canvas; and an apparatus
is employed to drive the odours in. Sections of
thin stone can be «awn off and polished, the
i colours, once in, being indelible, and all sinking to
equal depths. Alreaoy, the painting of endolitbs
ii fashionable among the ladies of London—a
Princess is about opening a bar in Paris, where
Democrats can nave gin-sdugs and even Auarch-
j ists corpse-revivers.... A young dude went the
other day to see an old doctor, complaining ot
being too Dervous. too strong, too young, and ol
having too much blood in his veins “ Now. doctor,
what would you give me for that?” “ Oh. ray dear
f llow, two thousand gulneas-at the least. ii*
Usd clandestinely married a ward in C ancery, and
was undergoing imprisonment for contempt < f
court. After some months of incarceration, his
bride was permitted to visit him. and intimating
i that she could not bear to see him in such a gloomy
orison, unfolded a tiny bundle, Baying that she bad
brought him a little “ sun and air. ’ ...The London
Morning Post recently contained the following
advertisement: “Ten dozen of port tor sale, the
property of a widow full bodied and seven yeirs in
cellar..’....London detectives discovered at he
West-end lately a man who had been living in a
swell family as lady’s-maid....lt is aiilrmed that
i the late Princess Alice’s youngest daughter, “ a
charming child of twelve years,” is already indi-
cated as the future Empress of Russia. This is
counting chickens pretty early.
“A Chinamau, rejoicing in the name of
Long- Kee, took the oath of "alligiauce yvsterday
before the Police Magistrate, and became a natu-
ralised British subject,” says the Northern
Miner. Let us grapple with It. At a time when
society is shaken to its foundations, and the very
theory of property in land has become as difficult
to handle as the dynamite we’re shipped outside
the Quay, hero comes a Chinaman—a man of clay-
with-a-glaze-on—and “rejoices” in the name of
Long Kee! Not content with “rejoicing,” he
takes an oath— swears, blasphemes, in short—that
he is a liege subject of our Queen— (Bring out the
sabre of my sires, boy)—“and became a natura-
lised British subject,” says the mad legend. (Bring
out everything that’s heavy, sonnv. Your father
is not so old as he looks.) What! we, who have
spread ourselves over the world, chopped down
forests, and almost smothered ourselves in trying
to save Ireland-are we, at this date, to be hum-
bugged by the shallow schemers of France ? For
France put Long Kee up to this. How else do you
explain that he can be “naturalised?” It is as
plain as the countenance of our enemy that this is
another little dodge of M. Ferry. They are sweat-
ing over that Waterloo defeat. And they are mad
over the loss of Alsace and Lorraine. So Johnny
Crapaud goes and allies himself with China to
crowd us civilly, and sends his rogues down next
door to New Caledonia to unmoralise us. To
arms! Britons never, never-in short, Britons
never.
By the Liguria, we are placed in possession
of important files. The British Association are
holding their annual session in Montreal, and, for
the first time since the Beliast gathering, when
Professor Tyndall hazarded the conjecture that
two and two arofour, approximately, this learned
gathering has gone out of the usual way, and ven-
tured to discuss some of the old theories concern-
ing mind and matter. Before we go on with the
news, we ll relate a little anecdote. l)r. Lardner,
whose innumerable treatises on scientific subjects
we have giaueed at askant, delivered a discourse
at the Bristol meeting Just after some madmen
had begun to talk about the application of st< am
to vessels. Heiproved to a demonstration that,
for marine purposes, the thing could never gee.
And the Association said, “So say all of us.”
A mouth afterwards he cleared to America,
in a steamship with another man’s wife. But that
might happen to anybody, liere's the point. At
the Montreal gathering, it was decided that, in the
interest of science, some crucial questions should
be drawn up and forwarded to the leading
thinkers of the age, and that the replies should be
read at the next annual meeting in Melbourne or
Sydney- according to which Premier sent the
invitation first. Here is Alfred Bennett’s paper
wito the reply :—(P. Assuming that the ultimate
constitution ot matter contains within itself all the
possibilities of vital and mental phenomena, and
that intellect is but the fortuitous product of cer-
tain collocations of matter, and, assuming further,
that the theory of the soul Is but a remnant of the
organised dream of aboriginal man, how do you
account for tbo metempiric illusion of a personal
identity ? Answer: “ Back in Five minnits A. 8.”
Here’s a modest little ad. from the Nooze,
which, in this oppressive weather, comes upon us
with all the refreshing coolness of a “ Tieat rock in
a lone and desert land,” or an iced shandy to a
theatrical supe after an hour and a hall's rehear-
sal. Voila!— tl Young gentleman, with(fair voice;
wishes to learn singing; would repay teacher upon
obtaining place in a company. Address C. H. K.
Bishop, G.P.0., Sydney.” Of course there’ll b a
perfect lunatic rush amongst the Garcias of the
day alter that nice young man with the fair voice,
and, tempted by his success, we can then expect
to find something like this to follow: “A young
gentleman who has already mastered the multipli-
cation table up to 13 times 13, is desirous of learn-
ing the business of accountant and financier in
general. Would repay teacher out of his first
month’s earnings as head manager of a Sydney
banking institution.” Or this: “ A youDg lady of
great accomplishments would like a free home
with a nice wealthy family who possess the enlrie.
to the leading society in the city. Would under-
take to instruct the young gentlemen ot the do-
mestic cirole in deportment and the customs of
the beau monde. Would make the bead of tna
household a present on my marriage with hia eldest
son. K.S.V.P. tres pressA, Or, poming down a step
or ttvoin the social scaje, how would this take ? “ A
Party wots up to Snuf wood like To git a kuppil of
week’s teechin’ from a iron safe Manerfaekcheror’a
fourman. Won thetunderstans orl about the New
patent winder-shetter fastenins And burglar alarms
rrufferred. Wood stand somethin’ ’andsum after
I’ve cracked a Joolur’s shop, or A toff Bloke’s
privet reserdens. W. Sykes, Tbeeves Ally.” Qr
again, the same game in another form, such as
this: “A respectable gentleman, father of eight,
grown-up sons, would like to communicate with „
select committee who Ciiv guarantee to sepure his
return to Parliament for any vacant
that may offer. No objection to the country.
Would allow the said committee a fair per centage
on the first year’s salary of all his sons, as soon as
he has worked them into suitable Government
billets. Address Septimus Fi.ycard, ‘ Ihe Snug-
gery.’ ” The Nooze’s young man with the fair
voice has clearly opened up a new field, which will
soon be thorouvbly well ploughed by the hoofs of
the pantiDg thousands who, like himself, are after
what >he Ancient Egyptians used to call “a soft
thing.”


PUr e country milk.
m II*K supplied by thb
htsh Food & fee Co., Limited,
® a y be relied upon as being 1
always pure,
from the country districts, M
8 irorn city contaminations.
Butter.
“«ned I? manufactured at their own depSt
®rabutter-makers in the
A is
twice daily, Sundays excepted,
cart- or ?i delivery is made. Butter by
city, daily; suburbs, three times
Fo 0( j $ / ce q 0 > Limited,
Z street.
r
UMBB
CJTUDY ECONOMY
io and
Hare your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Kemirs neatly ere-
. BORTHWIGK,
Importer of
- ’ Sheet, and Ornamental Glass,
& COLOR MERCHANT,
(n asg and DECORATOR,
1 v erer, Beveller, and Embosser.
6rn
281
*tock of Paperhangings of the
Pa tteni<> „ oDs e ver seen in the colonies,
post free.
most
George street,
Opposite Hunter Street.
96 King-street.
! Uncus, Sc.
h^ e< l in fe at 4s. 6d., seldom equalled ! Never
»^n Vcil) , Huaniy or snisn.
6, ror Winter, largo variety, lowest
p ®°^e ar „
° lars > Cu'ff W and B tJ rllfi h shapes.
s > Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &c.
& CO., 96 King-street.
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not. the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities or the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
profit represent the common- beers referred to
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTKLL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO,
Anglo -Australian investment
FINANCE and LAND COMPANY
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUtsG'S BUILDINGS,
163 PItT Street, Sydney.
Capital, £500,000, in 50,000 Shares of £lO esch.
Subscribed Capi'al h‘IO3STO.
Reserve Fund t 0.
Directors :
Henry G©RMAN. E q. J.P., < ~hai man.
Hon. Fred. A. vvbight, >t P., Vi e Chairman.
C. C. Skarrat r, Bad. iJ- H. Newman. Esq.
W. H. Paling, Esq., JP. I .benjamin James, Jr.,
| Esq.
Deposits received at following rates :
At call •• •• Five per cer- t.
3 months .. *• Five tind a h&lf per cent.
” 6 ... Six per cent.
”13 „ ... Seven per cent.
INVESTING SHARES :
Shares are now being issued.
Full particulars on application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS;
Half-yearly, dividends, at the rate of 13>4 Pgr
cent, per annum, have been paid since establish-
ment of Company.
ADVANCES: , , ,
Loans, repayable by monthly instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mail.
ROYAL ARCADE. GEORGE ST.. 488 SYDNEY >
SEASOH, 1884.
and SHAW
Have the pleasure to inform their friends and the public that they
Cllßh NOW OPENIN6 FOR THE COMING SEASON,
" ft «IUIING MILLINERY AND STRAW GOOD?,
t all the newest dress materials,
IBS’ PARASOLS, of the newest colouring and designs,
- Trimmed and Untrimmed, Gilt Ribs, and Newest Handles.
and Imitation IRAQIS GOODS,
White, and Black, as well a* the Various Shades in New Coloured Lfico Goods.
ls °’ NEW GOODS and NOVELTIES in the following departments:-
a »ILK HANDKERCHIEFS
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING
CHILDREN'S UNDERCLOTHING
STAYS and CORSETS
STLKS, SATINS, and MANTLES
EVENING DRESS MATERIALS,
' Sll ppi
Our Plain Drapery Department
with an unusually large assortment of NEW GOODS for the Season, and we are
■ iUlte sure our prices will compare favourably with any house in the trade.
Towellings, Counterpanes, Calicoes, Blankets, Flannels, Irish Linens, Table Linens, &e.
Gentlemen’s Departments.
Scarfs ; all the latest shapes in Linen Collars; Gentlemen’s Gloves, in every make,
tejj* 4 ’ aQ d colour; Gentlemen’s Umbre"
Jmbrellas; Waterproof Clothing ; Gentlemen's White
and Coloured Shirts of every description,
J READY-MADE CLOTHING.—We are almost daily opening out Men’s and Boys’
TAj- «• cut on the most scientific principle, and of a reliable and durable character.
°RING DEPARTMENT.—AII the Newest Woollens for the Season. Skilful Cutters and
Moderate Prices.
*
& SHAW, Importers and Manufacturers,
324, 326, 328 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
And 123 P ALMERSTON BUILDINGS, OLD BROAD STREET, LONDON.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
OT77 - Open.
'CCLEERY’S HOTEL,
C °Uier of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
bar up-stairs.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .—The
drink of the army, nary, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
TRADE
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS,
extracted from the bark and comb
of the fir tree, consisting of Pine
Wool Wadding-, Oil, Extract for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
lailing remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and all; nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Sole Wholesale Agents,
S. HOFFNUNG and CO„ Sydney.
None genuine without trade mark and signature,
lARTIFICIAL TEJJH
Warranted f irsb qua lity i
Charges strictly moderate j
' MARSHALL BROTHERS
I St/RGE° N DENT,STS 106 MARKET ST E, i
TEETH PAINLESSLY STOPPED.
Tbe practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried 0 n by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
Nitr°us Oxide or Laughing Gas,
Black Swan Hefei,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DE VLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, sliootinsr, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment's notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
Eassed. The magnitlcient s.s. lllawarra, leaves
ydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT n. d-ertsilrer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (10) years; also
Manager for over ten (10) years.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
Hi
m
£5
Mill'll
mu*
11,7 k. “k
VALUABLE 4
ur fer in e _ t//
irp^r^=4!L 0 M /
I N VA
fno**
10
io o
$$
u
•>
m
Voii
Ge
Ia > pEc 1A L •1 1
for the
AustralianColohses
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
>
I
R.BURCI
TAILOR,
* j v
/wiry BURGIS* £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
JL from 10s. od. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for a«
forwarded to any part of the colony
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
IT THE PREMIES WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. Zfc/la/t-u.red,
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS)
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “Whiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1«7 .
Paid-up Capital , . .£300,000
Reserve Fund ........£138,000
Directors :
The Hon. Sir John H ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C. ,
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. j Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq'
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wai.es :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Gfralambone.
Goaford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadeuhali-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq,
Sir Saul Samuel.K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager ; Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted dailj r .
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woe 1
apd other produce shipped to England for sale.
W. H, JL riell & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a-variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury,. Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flotir, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
34, Vi , and lib. tins.
R. WHITTING HAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, lapel Bugs,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, Ac.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Sfirac?,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PREMIER
EF
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing all the agrcefcbie qualic.es
'PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitati° n . Manu-
ctured by
NORRIE anil MAYER.
Factory and Warehouse, ;
317 & 819. KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
REGINALD TORUS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
AftEAv O*KORB
Copyrighted.
KOUSTACaSfcadWHISEHES.
Bond's Beard BHXirdid th<*,avd
trill do it on cither bald head or
bare /ace. jFoi CCB heavy Mous-
tache in from 2 to 4 weeks and never
/ails, t jouno men already
wear tulL heards. having 1 t'i
No injury, easily applied, eertui/f %t} a/frer*,
3 pktt. No injury, easily applied, tertuift %n v#'’**
each, 3 for 3 s. 6,1., post p ytnf c«vnt ’fin : Xv°'>* w-'*™ l '**;
rfddftff, Atfdl.lXw 730, Q.1‘.0i t Syduev % N.S. W>
etFons AFTER
%
Jew
ripjriQklrCfix
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNJTR OF PITT AND PARK STREETS,
TAMES PFARSON, successor to w. Alexander,
wishes to remind all oK customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and, rpfspuvj
able in price. Inspection solicited,
eOUIBT BUTCHER ft CO
(Late William Long),
tar WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
584 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY 1
Country Orders receive prompt attention


G-old T
(REGISTERED.)
.(Vi iJ
iT^SS
w
w
9 SYDNEY AECADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
FAHimi Ml HOT, IE ID WMS, fa,
LATEST FASHIONS.]
"W-A-TCHES, PEOM 3 Os. EACS.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended^
IS XT? J
ASIC YOUR DOCTOR
&
7
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.
(OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET')
STAR AND GARTER HOTER,
No. 104 KING BTREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Teleerraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &o.
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
The most Comfortable ana Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Manders and Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegram-' from all parts of the colony posted up.
’ TACS TEOMPSO^,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING »
91 King-street.
N. 8.—1 ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
S, FKY & SCOTS., Bristol, London, and Sydney.
"An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lancet.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
IORM-ij
SiORR-JS
01
ytuhUv
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
Quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
V/RGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibit km.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA:
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET,
GLBEY’S SILYERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
SYS George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURHSTURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring? Street,
Sydney,
Have always In STOCK, for SALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AWB
earthenware,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GA YEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
EdinburgnPale die.
T. JONES and CO.,
65 MACQUARIE-STREET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND.
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
lx*
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractor* to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents tor all binds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
BLAKE'S n» r "
STEAM F 1
17
H. P. mm** 1 *- 6 i
PIT T sTB
SYDNEY
Hr
ARE SOLE AGENTS if <K
and have in Stoch a D
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED
TANK OR LIGHT SER
MINING- PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & ClR C
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMP®
VACUUM PUMPS opO
DEEP-WELL-SIX# 11 *®
- '
SEND FOR PRICES
CATALOGUES
A
OILS.
V
&
<3
Office: 330
STORES:
'NT.'R. VnttSt***
ftv
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
manufacturer of all kinds of lErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters* and Proprietor
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY'.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Goto Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters ; also, another Gold Medal for Lkja^ Sf
