

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 1.—No. 40.—New Series
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1884.
Price—6d.
"THE BULLETIN” APPEARS THIS WEEK
PRINTED ON WHITE PAPER. THE FACT
IS, THAT THE CIRCULATION OF THE
NEW SERIES HAS SO OUTSTRIPPED EX-
PECTATION, THAT THE CONTRACT
QUANTITY OF PAPER HAS BEEN OVER-
PASSED. AS NO OTHER AUSTRALIAN
JOURNAL IMPORTS PAPER OF SUCH
QUALITY AS “ THE BULLETIN,” WE
ARE OBLIGED, FOR A FEW ISSUES, TO
USE THE BEST WE CAN GET. LARGE
SHIPMENTS ARE, HOWEVER, ALMOST
DUE, AND IN A FEW WEEKS WE SHALL
RESUME OUR WONTED COMPLEXION.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16,1884.
“Proputty, Proputty, Proputty.”
We counsel the public not to be led away
by the appearance of clamour against the
Treasurer’s financial proposals. In the first
place there is invariably a determined
resistance in some quarter to any new taxa-
tion. And especially to new direct taxa-
tion. When taxation is indirect, it often
happens that the parties who will really
have to bear the brunt of it do not realize
their position. Ad Valorem duties, for ex-
ample, are not unpopular, save with a very
limited circle—to wit, strictly conscientious
merchants. The dealer of loose morality
rather likes such a tax. In the first place he
can always manage by double invoices to
get at least a margin of advantage over
his honester competitors, no matter how
strict may be the official cheek and inspec-
tion. And secondly, although he has to
plank down increased sums for duties, he
gets an opportunity of piling on an extra
per centage on the retailer, making his dis-
bursements his excuse. We are not sur-
prised that Mr. Dibbs avoided the Ad Valo-
rem expedient. The Ministry of which he
is a member has claimed as its chief raison
d'etre , a call to abolish one system of de-
moralising legislation—the land-system with
all its consequences of illimitable perjury.
Heavy Ad Valorem duties have precisely the
same tendency. Their influence is directly ad-
verse to the maintenance of a high commer-
cial morality. When they prevail, a necessity
arises for the entire importing commercial
community to be subjected to the super-
vision of a special police—a sort of watch-
men over their morality. There is no deny-
ing or disguising the humiliating fact. If
those police—term them Invoice Examiners,
or what you please—were not instituted, one
result would be inevitable; the bulk of the
import trade would fall into the hands of
dishonest dealers, and conscientious mer-
chants bo crushed by illicit competition,
while the rogues became the Merchant
Princes of the colony. On the other hand,
when that police is called into prominent
activity, the entire commercial community
is humiliated and degraded. It is treated as
tioket-of-leave men are—kept under sur-
veillance.
• • 8
No man, or body of men, can preserve his
or their self-respect under such conditions.
We regard Ad Valorem duties, therefore, as
a resource running on all fours with the land
legislation to get rid of which additional
taxation has become requisite. It would,
indeed, have been an evidence of imbecility
had the Government merely knocked one
evil on the head, in order, after serious dis-
turbance, to produce another just as bad, in
its stead. The second ground on which we
base our advice to the public is that the
facilities for working up numerous little
demonstrations are peculiarly good as
against property-tax. All the “leading
citizens ” in every part of the colony are
f ‘in it.” There is no difficulty in under-
standing the position. Everyone knows
what it is in this colony which ordinarily
enables a man to figure as a “ leading citizen”
or “influential resident.” It is simply the
possession of property. Therefore, the
significance of the various meetings against
the Government proposals needs to be care-
fully examined, and extensively discounted.
To say meetings are promoted or addressed
by the “leading citizens,” or “most influ-
ential residents ” of this or that place
means nothing at all, save that the
class chiefly affected by the tax objects
to it. Meetings so promoted or attended
are precisely on a level with deputa-
tions of tobacco-manufacturers, or lamen-
tations from brown-paper millers. They
are natural, and were to be expected. If
the extra duty had been on beer, we should
have had the brewers rolling up their hands
and dependents, and demonstrating that the
country was devoted to ruin by the measure
which touched them. It is, therefore, not at
all singular that the agitation against the
property-tax should be influential and wide-
spread. All the well-to-do comfortable men
are concerned about it. And the people
who are not exactly well-to-do, are either
under such obligations to these influential
men as renders outward compliance with
their wishes convenient, or are simply ac-
customed to follow their lead.
* * *
It is important, therefore, to note that
there has not been one spontaneous meeting
to denounce the Government proposal of a
property-tax which has been clearly a
working-man’s meeting. In fact, there has
not been a meeting which has not had for
promoters and fuglemen members of the
lucky minority. The agitation is, we there-
fore conclude, as regards the property-
tax, superficial. The top stratum is alone
ruffled. The deeper, weightier mass—the main
body of the colonists—remains impassive.
Of course the Government proposals are
not popular in the sense of evoking demon-
strations of hearty good will. The poor
man relishes the additional tax upon tea
and tobacco as little as the wealthy man
enjoj s the tax upofi property. But if the
Treasurer’s proposals were popular with any
section of the community, that might be
adduced as evidence that the incidence of
their operation was unequal, since there was
a class of people who liked them. No taxa-
tion ever yet was popular unless it was one-
sided. When the property-tax was carried
in Victoria, it was not balanced by any such
equivalents as Mr. Dibbs’ intended tea and
tobacco duties. And it was amazingly popu-
lar. The men of the people orated grandly
in its favour, and the very mention of it
evoked cheers. This is precisely what it is
desirable to avoid. The fact that every
class is a trifle sullen, and no class outra-
geous, about Mr. Dibbs* scheme, appears to
indicate that the burdens will fall pretty
fairly in proportion to the strength of the
backs which will have to bear them.
• » •
It has been objected that an income-tax
would have been preferable to the property-
tax. And, in some respects, no doubt, that
is so. The real question, however, is, which
system is open to the fewest objections ?
This is worth examining. As against the
property-tax, it is argued that it will really
fall ultimately upon the users, not the
owners, of one important form of property,
viz., real estate. Landlords will, it is said,
simply raise the rents, to eover the amount
of taxation ; so that tenants, not owners,
will be the parties really taxed. This will
certainly happen if landlords can manage
it, or if it be worth their while. But the
annual amount of one penny per £100 of
capital value will scarcely be sufficient in-
ducement for landlords to disturb existing
arrangements, whatever they may do when
entering into new letting contracts. A
house worth £3000, and let at (say) £150 per
annum, would be chargeable with only 16s.
8d. yearly as property-tax. What landlord
would add the fraction to the rent? Still,
there is probably some force in the objection,
and it must be allowed for what it is worth.
On the other hand, we have already the
experience of Victoria as a guide, and we do
not find that the Liberals of that colony arc
crying out for abolition of the property-
tax on the grounds that it has proved a rod
for the “poor man’s” back. On the con-
trary, the property-tax in that colony
appeal’s to be very fairly answering the
expectations which were based on it, and
drawing revenue from the directions in-
tended.
• • •
With respect to an income-tax, there
is much that is favourable to be said.
It, perhaps, is fairer even than a property-
tax in some respects, inasmuch as it
“gets at” the heavily-salaried man, who
lives up to his income—is thus com-
paratively wealthy while he lives—and
only leaves poverty after his death
to those depending on him. But this
tax is infinitely more open to the
objection levelled against the property-
tax of being inquisitorial. It is scarcely
possible to conceive of one more so.
But there are much more powerful objec-
tions, when a comparison is made between
the two systems. A property-tax acts as a
spur upon the owner of real estate who is
content to permit it to lie unutilized, to
grow in value, by the work of industrious,
enterprising, and pushing neighbours. An
income-tax misses this altogether. It does
pot touch the unearned increment lying
ready for realization in unimproved lands.
This is a very vital point. Absentees
would escape an income-tax altogether,
Take the case of Sir Da*nibb Cooper. He
draws his immense revenues from this
colony, and contributes only towards the
revenues of Great Britain. A N.8.W.
income-tax would not touch him. A
property-tax, on the contrary, would draw
from him a contribution towards the ex-
penses of Government in the colony whence
he derives his income. Under a property-
tax it will no longer be profitable for
monopolists to block out whole suburban
areas by refusals to sell or lease. As for the
argument that capital will be driven from
the colony, that will only be applicable if
there be any place whither capital can
retire, where it can be put to more profitable
employment. For example, the annual
charge of one penny per hundred pounds
will certainly not turn the balance be-
tween Great Britain and New South Wales
as fields for investment. It will not stop
the flow of capital from England. There
the average rate of interest in even the best
mortgages is not more than four per cent.
Here it is certainly more than four
and a two-hundred-and-fortieth per
cent, per annum. It has to be borne in
mind—and this is expressly requisite, in
view of the fashion in which the extent of
the tax has been exaggerated by tricks of
figures—that its amount is just a two hun-
dred and fortieth part of one per cant, per
annum. We don’t think this will drive
capital away to other fields, The thing is
absurd, on the face of it,
SIR CHARLES SLADEN, K.C.M.G.


Coughs and Colds.
THB Boat Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
PURE RUM,
Extra Strong',
68. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Dejartnont,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
c. w. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
S<fL.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
BED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Thb host Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
0LYNBLI8H WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
TERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
la. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HBNNBSSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. ftd. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street. Sydney.
F
INEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ABE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Roehester, U.8.A.
pUBLIC NOTICE,
J. TURNER ROBINSON fe CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET)
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHOP
Bonsai
\C.orrespondenco Solicited
WWTffRESFOVSIBLE PARTIES
'• FOB, THE LEADING
I SEWW6’MACHINE OF THE i WORLD, I
I Full particulars, catalogue and prices!
.-mailed on application.'
® SEWING MACHINE CO,
EVERY
MAN
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marstoij’s New J¥ork
Describing hpw sufferers from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NERVOUS, AND IMPOTENT
KEN RESTORED TO
VIGOR, HEALTH A MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
Mars ton Remedy Co.,
7S ELIZABETH ST., 87DH1Y.
MR. WM. RUSSELL,
Surgical and Mechanical Denti.
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydne;
Malformations and accidental deformities of
Jaws, teeth, or palate, treated, King-et. entrant
All work guaranteed,
he Kates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 34s.; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—In advance.
The Advertising Rates are 5e. per Inch;
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sortioH. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may he sent, if more convenient.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Political Prattlers.
The Echo man is at it again. He laments the
mon-existence of a federated Empire with an Im-
perial Congress in London. If the House of
•Commons would only commit the “ happy de-
spatch ” hy admitting colonial members, “ how
small a Parnell would be in a Parliament that
represented all the Saxon strength of all the
"Quarters of the globe !” “And,” he might have
added, “what an important figure Now Sauth
Wales would be with her eighteen or twenty mem-
bers in a House of seven hundred.” The fact is,
it Is about time that somebody should squelch
those babblers who are constantly sighing for a
41 Greater Britain.” They are all colonials who
talk in this way. Ton never find a British states-
man chasing the will-o’-the-wisp of an Imperial
Council, or an Imperial Parliament “ where the
colonies would be represented.” On the contrary,
they say, as plainly as diplomatic language will
allow them, “ You are not content with
having continents of your own and governing
yourselves, but, confound you, you want to
come here and govern us.” Colonial writers
and politicians with “Jingo ” proclivities are like
spoilt children—they expect everything from the
old people, and will give nothing in return.
They speak of forming a homogeneous power
capable of bidding defiance to the world, but they
expect the two little Atlantic islands to do all the
defying, and find the men and money for it, while
they look on and give their “ moral support.” But
one never hears them speak of raising 20,000 men
to defend the Kyber Pass, or £20,000,000 to keep the
French out of China. No, it is for the little islands
to do that, while they send round the hat for sub-
scriptions for lint. The commander of a column
marching on Herat would be embarrassed by hear-
ing on the road that ho could not count on the
“moral support” ef Australasia. A late English
paper hit the nail firmly on the head when it said,
referring to the Pacific annexation scheme of the
jato Conference, that England’s part in the pro-
gramme was that of pulling out the chestnuts. To
have Britain, Canada, South Africa, and Austral-
asia welded into one power, with a general Par-
liament sitting in London, or in any other part of
the empire, is not only Utopian in conception, but
oven if practicable, would result in disintegration
and disaster. They are no friends of England or
the colonies who advocate it.
Directors and Drudges.
At the general meeting of shareholders of the
Commercial Bank of Australia, held a few days
ago in Melbourne, a couple of very pertinent
questions were put to the chairman of directors.
The reading of the report and balance-sheet was
followed by congratulations. A net profit balance
of over £44,000 was declared, The directors con-
ceived that this should be disposed of in three
ways. £10,000 should be carried over to the credit
of the next half-year’s profit account, £10,000
added to the reserve fund, and £34,000 odd should
bo distributed among the shareholders as a 10 per
cent dividend. At this stage, Mr. Wiluam
Miller asked: were the directors satisfied that
every gentleman in the employment of the Bank
was adequately remunerated ? He wanted
an as surance that “if anything happened,”
It could not be said that the men were
placed in positions of trust and not suffi-
ciently paid. The assurance was given.
Mr. Motjbray, the chairman, replied that the gene-
ral manager saw to all that sort of thing, and that
his recommendations for Increase of salaries were
always endorsed by the Board. Incidentally
the chairman implied that there were 400 or 500
officers employed, and the item “salaries” in the
balance-sheet was represented by £15,336, A little
calculation in mental arithmetic, even without
taking into account that a few men get very big
screws, will show that many men get very small
ones. Without mental arithmetic at all, however,
society is sufficiently aware of this. Our court-
houses tell it. Our coroners’ inquests tell
it. Swift-footed absconders leave the fact be-
hind as a tribute to virtue. And it speaks
from the wearied faces of anxious trades,
men who go, month after month, to have
the little account squared, but who always
return with the duty stamp in their pocket. Still
Mr. Moubray’s reply seems to have satisfied Mr,
William Miller, for he sat down and didn’t say
anything more during the rest of the meeting.
Then Mr. D. Whitley asked whether a bonus
would be given to the officers? The chairman
said that that involved a principle. All men were
not equally energetic, and there was in fact,
there was something immoral in rewarding lazy
and active men alike. Therefore, there would be
no bonus. And Mr. D. Whitley sat down and
didn’t say any more. And the distribution of pro-
fits, as conceived by the directors, was carried
by acclamation, and the shareholders voted
thanks to everybody, and “ the proceedings
then terminated.” Messrs. Miller and Whitley
had certainly a hold of a very important end of a
very important subject; but they let go too easily.
The spirit that troubled their conscience as they
entered the Colllns-street Bank was exorcised by a
wave of the chairman’s hand. But the effect of
the miracle must be evanescent. When the next
seventy-five pound clerk, whose employers ex-
pect him to maintain “ the appearance of a gentle-
man,” comes up at the Quarter Sessions, and Is
sent behind the prison wall for five years,
Messrs. Miller and Whitley will remember
how unsatisfactory a thing that wave of
the chairman’s hand was. It is to be
hoped that they will bo stronger next
year. If there bo blame, as there is, in tempting
young men, the shareholders in the concern
participate in it, and the conscience must
be very greedy for its 10 percent., find very farcical
in Its notions of justice, that solaces itself with
saying, when some stripling has been laid by the
heels, “ Oh, I didn’t know if his pay was propor-
tioned to his responsibilities, but Tasked the direc.
tors, and they didn't know, but they asked the
chairman, and the chairman didn't know, but he
said that the general manager settled all that sort
of thing. Put the young man in gaol!” Share-
holders, w m- are, as a raa tter of conscience
implicated, i.j.i when grave imputations are
abroad should be strong enough to insist on know-
ing fully bow their business is managed,
The Democratic Alliance.
Though exception may be taken to some of the
items on their programme as being somewhat pro-
mature and visionary, the promoters of the Demo-
cratic Alliance have hit the right nail on the head
by issuing their manifesto at this juncture. There
is a necessity for some such organization among
the working classes, for they have too long been
gulled by political charlatans, and too often led
away by sectarian cries, when they should have
voted on political principles alone.The promoters of
the Alliance are showing considerable activity, and
their frequent and well-attended meetings cannot
fail to have a beneficial influence upon the work-
ing classes, by causing them to think more seri-
ously and profoundly on the politics of their
country. Under these circumstances, the agita-
tion is one that should rather meet with our
approval than disapprobation: and if the pro-
moters do not allow the agitation to be utilised
for party purposes, it may accomplish good work
by stirring the people up to a more active inter-
ference in the affairs of their country. There can
bo no doubt that hitherto the colony has been
governed principally in the interests of two classes;
the great lessees and the great merchants,
and anything that will remedy this state of things,
and give us “government by the people for the
people” in earnest, and to its fullest extent,
should meet with the encouragement of all in the
colony who are actuated by true democratic prin-
ciples.
Pedants and Picannines.
The Herald thinks that the proper person to
take up the running as Under-Secretax-y for Edu-
cation—in place of Wilkins— would he “aman of
culture, whose standing as a scholar, would com-
mand confidence and respect. It might be impos-
sible to get such a man's services tor the salary
hitherto paid,” &o. Not a bit of it. We fancy*
somehow, that the writer of the Herald article
could lay his hand on the precise “ man of cul-
ture ” in a few minutes. Oh, and a person writes
to say that the new man should get about £3000 a
year, should be brought from Oxford or Cam-
bridge, and should be independent of a Minister
who must “ necessarily ” be less cultivated. Odd,
is it not, the ideas people entertain of Oxford and
Cambridge? For every clever man these es-
tablishments send out into the world they send a
thousand dunces. A man spends years at Oxford
and learns—what ? Languages that he will never
speak or knew half as well as the
ploughmen and the milkmaids of Old Greece,
or the Koman larrikins who attended the
Colosseum to see gladiators fight with savages
from Britain. To learn language is just as easy as
to learn hop-scotch. Children learn it at their
mothers’ apron-strings without an effort of reason.
A talented Englishman cannot speak nearly as
good French as a Parisian imbecile. In fact, as a
general rule, the more tongues a man is acq uainted
with in which to express his thoughts, the less
likelihood is he of possessing any thoughts worth
expressing. Poor Lever— a keen observer in his
way—had this in his mind whan remarking that
the men he know who could sit at a continental
table d'hSte and chatter in half-a-dozen dialects,
were mostly fools. But it is Buckle who has
knocked the sawdust out of this “ great scholar ”
fraud. He has shown that it is to the “ thinkers,”
and not to the “scholars,” that the world’s progress
is duo—that it is to the men who never saw Oxford
or Cambridge that civilisation and knowledge owe
most. And so the Herald and its correspondent
want some Oxfoi’d man, who knows all about the
Greek particle and, like Pius IX., looks with con-
tempt on science “falsely so-called,” to show the
way in which N.S. Wales “kids” should be in-
ducted into the mysteries of pothooks and
hangers. We trust they will get him.
When it was the Interest of the English to do so,
as it was after Tel-el-Kebir, they extolled the
pluck of the Egyptian troops who had resisted
Alison and his Highlanders. It added to the
latter’s 7«wios, don’t you see ! Now that it is
the Interest of the English to soften down a
defeat suffered by British officers, the cue is to
abuse the Egyptian troops as the most cowardly
wretches ever heard of. It is conveniently ignored
all the while that at Tel-el-Kebir the Egyptians
were lighting for Egypt and home rule, while the
cause which they were pressed and brought along
on compulsion to support in the Souakin district
was that of their most hated oppressor, the
miserable Teweik. In the opinion of any honest
fellow, himself a patriot, it was far less dastardly
for the Egyptians under Baker to refuse to strike
tor Teweik and tyranny than it would have been
had they offered x-esistance to to their co-religion-
ists, the adherents of the Mahdi.
A Valentine.
Which The Bulletin is thar.
Wit h the hay-so°d in his bar,
And, to toll the truth, he mostly does incline;
Now he’s caught upon the nop.
He will cease the formal shop,
And will nail each reader as a Valentine.
We are fearless for a friend,
Fighting to the bitter end.
And keep up the trouble all along the lino;
But we’ll never tell a lie,
And that is the reason why
That wejlive to send our little Val«ntiue.
So, good wishes to you all.
Handsome, ugly, great, or small,
May we still in your good favour brightly shine;
So, remember, when you read.
That we scribblers—poor, indeed—
Wish you ah the luck or good St. Valentine,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Mr, T. E. Ellis, bootmaker, sues the Mait-
land Mail for libel, £500 damages. ...A nugget
175oz, 15dwt. found at the new lead, Temora—
Sketches in the drought-smitten lands: Ex-
perienced bushman after travelling some 80 miles
during the day, in the Dee Ranges (N.Q.), comes
to a lagoon in which 40 head of dead cattle were
lying. No other water, and that, though he rinsed
his mouth with It, his horses refused to drink.
Between Thargomindah and Korribree, 60 or 70
wool-laden waggons—grass and water bound.
Carriers not able to travel at all on the Bogan line
of road, the water being too foul for any animal
to drink, the river being choked with carcases of
stock Net profits of Bank of Victoria for past
half year, £37,033 13s, 5d. Dividend, 10 per cent.
per annum Two hundred pounds worth of prize
sheep worried by dogs at Ballarat. Owner of
sheep is worrying owner of dogs in law court....
114 applicants for blocks of the Mallee attended
first court at Dimboola. Nearly the whole fringe
was taken up within six hours—Melbourne
Argus lectures London Standard for saying
Victorian Banks are in a critical position. Hints
that the London paper’s city editor has been got at
by a “foe.” Ballarat married ladies cry out to
have the law deal severely with married men
guilty of seduction. Ostensible foundation for
the appeal—Lizzie Murphy’s suicide: actual foun-
dation—Mum Expenses of Lizzie Murphy’s
funeral paid by public subscription — Maria
Brand, aged 14, was charged, at Geelong, with
abducting Mary Middleton, aged 15. Object in
hand—to join the “ lasses,” and get washed in the
blood of the La-ha-hamb. Prisoner discharged....
Blue Mountain parrots are stripping the fruit
trees in Hamilton. Hundreds shot daily; but this
doesn’t lesson the number. So ’tis put. Shot at,
probably, is what is meant—A one-armed man
fell over the bridge at Shepparton on Sunday.
Wasn’t injured. Now, if he had had that other
arm it would have been sure to get broken. Ex-
pense saved....James O’Neill, a member of
the Permanent Artillery Force, stabbed a man
in Melbourne, on Sunday morning. So much
for teaching him to bo a sodgor. Ho had only an
old tobacco-knife, and yet he practised. Now, if
James had only had his little gun, ho would have
bombarded the town Messrs. Deane and Co., of
Melbourne, have commenced iron ship-building at
Williamstown, First in Australasia....Corporal
Greonlass, of the Victorian Artillery, is put away
for three years tor stealing a bag of money. Hope
the Russians won't attack Melbourne while it is
undefended.... Still stirring the social sink in Mel-
bourne. The newspapers have found another
house of assignation, and invoke the authorities
to stamp it out. Ugh, the schoolboy enthusiasts!
... The Melbom-neTitles Office will now steam
ahead. Old Samson and Bird go on the super-
annuation shelf, and young fellows cut in....
Jeremiah Boland, “Arch-medium,” brought up to
P’ltzroy Court to answer for his little lottery.
Summons informal. Will appear again — Half
the shops and dwellings in Melbourne are built on
pools of stagnant water. Too late now to bale out.
If it was whisky, they’d be pulled down directly.
Ivo Bligh is back. Game only interesting to
himself A good, sound, teetotal beverage has
been long a desideratum. It has been struck in
Melbourne. It’sbfittermilk—3,000,000 sovereigns
coined in Melbourne Mint last year....Hon. Thomas
Bent back from Calcutta. Brighton people sere-
naded him. Health not good—Movement to
raise funds for the distressed widow of John
Wisker. Chess Club leads.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Quilp”: Too involved “Anti-
shoutist": A near thing, but not quite good
enough “Royalty”: The Queen’s income
(inclusive of the revenues derived from the
Duchy of Lancaster) for 1883 was £153,541. The
cost of the royal palaces occupied by the Queen
or her nominees was £36,351; the cost of main-
taining the royal yachts of escort and salutes,
conveyance by sea of the Queen’s household,
naval and marine aides-de-camp, was £10,775. And
all this irrespective of grants to members of the
Royal Family. ..“P.” : The familiar phrase, “the
great majority” (as used to describe the dead),
occurs in Dr. Young’s “ Revenge,” act iv. sc. 1, in
which Alonzo, addressing Zanga, says
“ Life is the desert: life the solitude ;
Death joins us to the great majority ;
’Tis to be born to Platos and to Ciusars,
’Tis to be great for ever.”
The phrase “joined” or “gone over to the great
majority” is enviously a translation of the Roman
sepulchral formula, “ cihierunt ad midtos.”
“M.G.E.”: It is not of sufficient merit... “G.M.”
(Hughenden) : You are evidently one of those
feeble persons who do not read this journal, but
who talk about it as The Bitllyteen. If you did
read it, you would perceive at once that the bald-
headed rot you send us is not “acceptable,” and
cannot be “ dished up ” in these columns. Do you
take us for the Holy Howl, or tor a journal that,
by its fearless outspokenness, has gained the em-
phatic support of the clergy? Go to! This is
Shakesperian. But, perhaps the hot weather might
suggest the elongation of the period — “A Fact ”
(Port Macquarie): You say your item is “a fact.”
Well, “facts,” as you know—-or ought to—are
stubborn things.” And your fact is too stubborn
for us to lick into shape. So wo have passed it on
to the dog.. .“Dick Dead eye”: Thanks. We have
eliminated the young men who got thrown off
their horses and ran into a buggy and broke the
buggv wheel, and so on. It’s not exciting enough
for this generation. Send us something about a
buggy which was thrown out of a young man, or
about a young lady tilled with spectators, or a
horse which had the lynchpin come out of its hind
wheel, and we’re “on.”—“XXX.”: Your brew
is too strong for us. Draw it mild.
Sir Charles Sladen, K.C.M.G.
Sir Charles Sladen, whose portrait we give in
this issue, is a Victorian statesman of acknow-
ledged ability. During the stormiest period of
the Berry regime, he was assailed with a good deal
of rancour on account of his unaccommodating
Conservatism. For years he has held a conspicu-
ous place in the Upper House. His Victorian ex-
periences date from 1813. He was then 36 years of
age. On the separation of Victoria from New
South Wales, he became Treasurer in the first
Ministry under the new Constitution. Since then, he
has passed through the customary vicissitudes for
which politicians must be prepared in countries
possessing free Parliamentary institutions. In
May, 1868, he took office as Chief Secretary, but the
times were troublous, and the Ministry went under
in the following July. The terra for which he had
been elected to the Council having expired in
August, 1868, he retired from public life, and did
not re-enter it until 1876, when he was elected un-
opposed for the province he previously repre-
sented. He was the guiding spirit of the deter-
mined opposition offered by the Upper House to
the somewhat sensational reform projects of Mr.
Berry.


Catarrh of the Bladder.— Stinging Irritation,
inflamation, all Kidney iyid similar Com-pWHnt,s
eared by “ Buohu-palba.” Moses, Moss A Co.
Sydney, General Agents.
Political Points
In the face of the little pleasantries in
vogue among our own legislators, it is quite re-
freshing to find that “the second reading of the
Oaths Abolition Bill has been carried in Ade-
laide.
We are seriously
thinking of starting a
first-class society journal
on the lines of The
BULI.ETIN — m Bavaria.
A Kissengen correspon-
dent of a Spires paper
said that in his to wn there
was some regret that the
fCiner did not com© tbat
Softener. The editor
vrot two months’ solitary
for printing this. ( the
judge saying that no
one was entitled to criti-
cise the actions ot his
Majesty.” It seems nearly
M nice to be a King in
Bavaria, as a Supreme
Court Judge in N.S.W.
A writer in the Rum
has broached an inge-
nious Plan for fortify-
ing Sydney. It 18 to
induce English capitalists
to invest in Sydney pro-
perty, and thus throw
the defence of the city on
the investors. We
should have a couple of
British ironclads cruis-
ing about the Heads to
assist our own defences.
This is simply delicious.
But there is a drawback.
England has so severely
burnt her fingers—there
is indeed, a prospect of
the whole arm being
scorched — in defending
the interests of Jew
moeny-lenders in Egypt,
that it is extremely un-
likely she will ever again
become a collector either
for Hebrew financiers.
Irish landlords, or any
other class of investors.
They know their risks
and accept them with
their eyes open.
Field-Marshal H.R.H.
the Prince of Wales when
he attempts a thing does
it properly. It is pleasant
to learn that that gallant
officer (the saints protect
him !) recently, at Hom-
burg, gave “ a grand re-
ception and dinner to
several Russian and Ger-
man state officers of high
rank and position. The
banquet,” says our au-
thority, “ was a very ela-
borate affair, and no ex-
pense was spared in
obtaining rare culinary
delicacies. Among the
dishes served was a lot
of salmon trout, brought
from the Rhine on ice,
each of which fish cost
the sum of five pounds
sterling. Pommcry Sec
served to wash down
this expensive entertain-
ment, that brand being
the Prince of Wales s only
wine.”|fcThis was doubt-
less before H.R.H. com-
menced to talk “ with
his usual cheerfulness
on the subject of the poor
of London. Now, in the
purlieus of Bethnal
Green (the word “Green,
by the way, is a hideous
satire), a densely popu-
lated quarter of London,
a family of four is con-
tent if,by working twelve
hours, it can complete
eight gross (1152) match
boxes, the price paid by
the manufacturers being
just per gross—the
earnings of the family,
therefore, amounting to
the gorgeous sum of Is.
8d. per diem ! Thus, it
will be seen that the price
of one of those “salmon
trout brought from the
Rhine on ice,” would
have kept that family for
sixty days. As for the
Pommery Sec, it will
doubtless have cost
money enough to have
decently buried about 150
persons who have re-
cently died in Bethnal
Green of sheer starva-
tion. And, of course,
this sort of thing will go
on for ever. Well, we’re
quite agreeable. But,
let it be understood, it is
our loyalty, not our will,
onsents.
In answer to the inquisitive Mr.
the Premier admitted a few nights ago that “one
Thomas Hu gerford, a justice of the peace, was
convicted at Muswellbrook, on the 22nd January
last, of com itting an unprovoked assault upon
one John M‘ )< nald, and that the Bench inflicted
on Hungerford a penalty of £5 and £4 16s. lOd.
costs, or four months’ imprisonment in Maitland
gaol.” Well, supposing he was; what’s the use
of making such an awful fuss over such a mere
trifle ? Why shouldn’t a J.P. be allowed to have
his little innocent “ divarshun ” as well as an M.P.?
We can see no earthly reason whatever why the
one should be favoured and the other fined.
A good many critics of the proposed new
taxation scheme, in their involved calculating as
to the terrible Incidence of aid. in the £100 on free-
hold landed property, have totally ignored as a
factor in their reckoning the “unearned incre-
ment,” which, per favour of railway, tramway,
street, and other improvements, so slyly annexes
itself to the land, enabling it to pay in principal in
the next generation what it did not yield in inter-
est in the first instance. It is very very sad that
landed property should barely yield! per cent., but
there’s solid compensation in the fact that the
principal on which that small percentage is paid
multiplies itself with a steady rapidity. Bh, Buck-
land ?
Mr. Berry told the people down at Mor-
dialloc that they were advancing very rapidly.
“You have now a school,” said ho, “you are
agitating for a gaol, and when you get a gallows
you’ll have reached the summit of civilisation.”
That is only flattery, and it is only such simple
people as those of Mordialloc who could be taken
in by it. Why, what is the use of the gallows
unless they can got the right people to hang on it ?
And that’s what they can’t get. These right people
will only come around for banquets, or to make
speeches, or to do something of that sort. The
Mordiallochians may keep their hand in by hang-
ing an odd flannel-shirted fool, but that won’t
bring them nearer the summit.
Some of the Irish Invincibles appear to be
wags. A document found on one of these dyna-
mite gentlemen was a receipt for explosive
material, bearing a footnote to the effect that it
was “a Cure for Gout.” This was produced at the
recent trial in Edinburgh, and the Lord Advocate,
who presided, was of opinion that “Gout” was
intended for “ Govt., in which case it would be a
contraction for Govermont.” This is only another
proof of a Scotchman’s proverbial density over a
joke. Gout is always accepted as the aristocracy’s
hereditary complaint, and as that “hereditary”
complaint is exactly what the Irish are so anxious
to cure, why. of course. Gout was the most suit-
able word. But, however— chacun A son gout.
We commend these words of R. A. Proc-
tors to the consideration of the members of the
Blue Ribbon Army:—“ It is all very well for those
who live in clean and comfortable places, with no
occasion and no wish to try to dull their senses,
and their sense too, against evil impressions and
objects foul to sight and smell and taste and touch
and hearing, to wear blue ribbons in token that
they do not do what they are not at all tempted to
do, and then to denounce the unfortunates whose
whole lives are a temptation to seek diffusive (and
stupifying) stimulants. But it would be better to
wear a ribbon of some other colour, in token (if
one must blazon one’s actions before the world)
of the sacrifice of leisure and money in making the
lives of the poor more happy and their homes
more comfortable.”
In the French Chamber of Deputies on
Dec. 10, M. D’Ornano asserted that Jules Ferry and
Charles Ferry seduced the majority. Jules said:
“ Such language is Indecent.” His brother asked
the meaning ‘ ‘ of these odious insinuations.” Then
ensued a row, on which, before the close of the sit-
ting, the President managed to pour the oil of a
temporary conciliation. No sooner, however, was
the sitting over than Charles Ferry—punched ?
—no, dear Wisdom, not punched, but—challenged
D’Ornano. On this coming to the ears of Presi-
dent Brisson, he didn’t run tattling with the spicy
news to the Chamber. No, dear Abbott, he did
not; but he brought all the parties together and
nduoed them to shake hands on the condition of
the altercation being expunged from the official
report. This Brisson must be a good sort.
Professor Huxley, writing of the East
London slums of forty years ago, says:—“I have
had an opportunity of seeing savage life in all
conceivable conditlonslof savage degradation, and
I can assure you in this experince of mine I found
nothing worse, nothing more degrading, nothing
so hopeless, nothing nearly so intolerably|dull and
miserable, as the life I had left behind in the East-
end of London. For, although the savage may
perish of hunger or violence, and never knows
whether his life may be his own twenty-four hours,
yet there is life in him; he is a man, he is not a
mere machine, ground down to bring out so much
mechanical energy at the expense of so much food;
and I most certainly say that if the alternative
were presented to me to choose the life of one of
those people in the East-end or that of the savage,
I would distinctly choose the latter, ’ The East
London slums of forty years ago are the East
London slums of to-day; and Dives continues to
give occasional pennies out of his hoard
To bribe God
To let him play churchwarden, or, more great,
The puffed-up legislator, born to rule.
To dally with statistics, talk of crime,
A necessary evil, blame the poor,—
And bid his friends come in and praise his wine.
Some months ago, two natives of the
island of Iririki (Sandwich group) were taken on
board the French steamer, Caledonien, and forced
to sell the island to the Compagnie Caledonienne
des Nouvelles Hebrides for 75 francs, some tobacco
and a case of dynamite ! When the news of this
transaction reached the ears of the local Presby-
terian Mission, that body lodged a complaint with
the authorities, the ground of the said eomplaint
being that Iririki is the property of the said Mis-
sion, having been conveyed to them (for how
much, or what—whether gold, rum, dynamite,
tracts, or testaments, does not appear), with title
deeds, properly attested, in December, 1870. In
the course of the investigations which Commodore
Brskine had to prosecute in connection with the
matter, he discovered that the natives had sold to
Captain Fraser, ctf the missionary schooner, Day-
spdng, a tract of seven miles of land opposite to
the island of Erakor. When one takes into con-
sideration the value of these questionable pur-
chases (Iririki, according to Captain Bridges, pos-
sesses singular strategic advantages), and the cir-
cumstances that they are made by missionaries,
is it to be wondered at that foreign governments
hesitate to believe in the disinterestedness of such
evangelists, and to put them down as the advance
political agents of a Power, the secret of whose
greatness is not so much the Bible as the trader’s
art of buying cheap and selling dear ?
Mr. Kerferd informed the Beechworth
people the other day that he was glad to say that
there was something, after all, higher than party,
and that something was the interest of the State.
That was really a noble sentiment to well from the
banquetted Minister. But was it original? Was
there not something of the old L’Etat e’est moi
about it ?
The present Lord Brougham, who retired
in 1851 from an almost sinecure billet, in the Court
of Chancery, on a pension of £3335 a year, had, at
the close of 1883, drawn £103,200 on that account
from the public exchequer. And he’s only one of
the many “ royal, judicial, or legal vultures ” who
have fastened themselves upon the vitals of the
foolish folk at home—foolish m that they annually
appropriate some six millions sterling to the
cockering of such bloodsucking deadheads.
It is said that Mr. Mirams is getting tired
of playing a waiting game. The little man fears
that if things take their natural course the Coali-
tion will last into the next century. But the
saying has not much to go upon. Mirams looks
wild occasionally, no doubt, but that is partly con-
stitutional, and partly in consequence of not being
sure whether his umbrella is safe. If there is a
balance of wildness in his look, it possibly springs
from the fact that teetotal beverages don’t agree
with him.
How the London
poor live. Thames police
magistrate to very old
widow, an applicant for
assistance from the poor-
box: About how much
do you earn, upon an
average, when you get
work? Applicant: Tak-
ing one week with ano-
ther, sir, I can earn four
shillings a week. Magis-
trate: And what do you
pay for rent out of that ?
Applicant: I have a small
room, for which I pay
two and nine - pence a
week. His Worship
(with surprise): But that
only leaves flfteenpence
out of your earnings.
Surely, my good woman,
you don’t live on one and
threepence per week ?
Applicant (smiling grim-
ly): Well, you can’t
hardly call it living, sir,
but I exist on it some-
how ; and I would rather
make shift and do with
that than go into “the
house.” I don’t want to
go there, anyhow. It
seems probable that “ the
House Beautiful ” about
which Oscar Wilde has
been orating to high-
toned audiences, is not the
Poorhouse.
Lord Randolph
Churchill’s views on the
Egyptian question go
pretty well on all fours
with our own. Said that
game young “ Wood-
cock,” at Edinburgh, the
other day;—“ What had
we done for the Egyp-
tian people ? We took
over the cattle plague,
produced the cholera,
and wherever it broke
out we drew a military
cordon round about it
which prevented a single
soul from getting out or
a single doctor from get-
ting in. We also gave
them a dozen Dutch
judges, who were at pre-
sent waiting till law
courts should be built.
We also gave them an
army, and the curious
thing was that the army
remained in Cairo, and
the police went out to do
the fighting. The army
was warranted to cut the
throats of Sir Evelyn
Wood and his officers
immediate'y the British
soldiers went away. In
addition to all this, we
generously added six mil-
lions to the Egyptian
national debt, and to
crown this splendid edi-
fice we had placed at the
head of affairs the
Khedive Tewfik, the
plotter against his father,
the robber of his
family, the betrayer of
his Ministers, the man of
magic, and the sorcerer,
and now, said Mr. Glad-
stone, we, the Liberal
Government, if only the
False Prophet will keep
quiet, are going to
scuttle out of this
country as fast as we
cau, and are going to
tell Parliament, to toll
the country, and to tell
Europe that Egypt is
pacified, and that the
Egyptians are happy, al-
though we know all the
while that greater misery
by far prevails in the
country than before the
battle of Tel-el-Kebir.
What had he (Lord R. C.)
to advocate in place of
what was done? Well,
he advocated that we
should retrace our steps
while the happiness of
Egypt was still possible;
he advocated the ex-
pulsion, bag and bag-
gage, of Tewfik from
the land which he had
desecrated; ha advocated
the recall of the exiles
from Ceylon, and the
formation of a genuine
policy, at the head of
which should be placed
one who would rule in
an enlightened manner.’
The Opposition, so Irfhg without a head,
have elected Mr. Wisdom to lead them. They
probably judged that no man could put a head on
them so readily.
• • •
In the event of Sir Henry Brand’s retire-
ment from the Speakership, the Conservatives
mean to nominate Sir Matthew W. Ridley, member
for North Northumberland, in oppesition to
Arthur W. Peel, member for Warwick, the
Liberal nominee....The Standard believes tha
the triple alliance of Germany, Austria, and Italy,
reduces autocratic and revengeful Russia in the
Bast, and revolutionary and revengeful France in
the West, to impotence This is now Winthrop
Mackworth Praed put George IV. through:—
“ A noble, nasty life he ran,
Supremely filthy and fastidious;
He wo a the world’s first gentleman,
And made the appellation hideous.”
....Lord Wolsoley prophesies shortly the big-
gest war the world has ever witnessed. Our
Wolverene heroes should look into this and get at
the bottom of it. We are oonvineed that should
there be anything in it, the Wolverene will get to
the bottom.
“Out in the Cold World.”


ACROSS THE GREAT CONTINENT.
PASSENGERS to England have the choice of
studying the ocean horizon for two months,
or of viewing the United States. A trip across
the territory of the Great Republic costs nothing,
and avoids the monotony of an unbroken sea
voyage.
TRAVEL TO EUROPE VIA SAN FRANCISCO.
THE GREAT BURLINGTON ROUTE
run through Express Trains to New York every
day, and is universally coneeded to be the Finest
Equipped Railroad in the world for all classes of
travel.
FOR SPEED, GORGEOUS SCENERY, AND
COMFORT, IT IS UNRIVALLED.
T. D. MgKAY,
General Agent, San Francisco.
Connects direct either by Northern or Southern
Route in Union Depots with through trains via
Niagara Falls, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Washing-
ton, New York, Boston, and all Eastern Cities.
Pullmann Palace 16-Wheel Dining and Sleeping
Cars run only on this line.
33—MONTGOMERY STREET—33.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
A letter in the Hebalb signed “John
Davis” sent a rush of blood to our head. Can it
be, we said, that it is our beloved C.M.G. without
the “ e ? ” Just then we caught the date, J-a-n-u-
a-r-y the , and we knew it was not our John.
8ir W. J. Clarke has donated another £3900
to Trinity College, Melbourne. If he keeps going on
in this way he will unsettle some venerable con-
victions. Has he not got his title ? Why, then, such
benevolent largesse ? The human mind’s full of
strange twists. Perhaps the venerable convictions
were wrong.
Victor Hugo’s organ, the Rappel, says
that that wise old fool sent the following note to
the Queen:—“ Paris, Dec. 14. —The Queen ol Eng-
land has more than once shown the grandeur of
her heart. The Queen of England will pardon the
life of the condemned prisoner, O’Donnell, and
will receive the unanimous acknowledgment ot
the civilized world.—Victor Hugo.”
Such is the bitter irony of fate. When
the well-known J. Gregory, the Horsham J.P.. was
recently committed to the local gaol to await his
trial for forgery, he naturally felt his position
keenly, and, in order to alleviate his nervousness,
he was placed in a cell with two other prisoners
who were awaiting trial. And one of these men
had been committed a few days before by Gregory
himself, in his capacity as a justice of the peace.
On the Vernon there is an Anglo-Japanese
boy named Tommy Ah Fun. He has various
accomplishments, the one that most attracted
Lord Rosebery being the lad’s phenomenal supple-
ness. He is as supple as a member of Parliament.
He can bend back and pick a pin oil the deck
with his eye-lids. There is a fine career in this
country before Tommy; but, like many of our
most respected citizens, he must leave off picking
pins and take to .
The wife of Hicks Pasha lives in Brighton
(Eng.), and first learned of the loss of her husband
and the destruction of his army from the cries of
the newsboys. Everyone will feel for Mrs. Hicks,
but not everyone will bear in mind that the
Soudanese whom Hicks went forth to destroy had
wives and children also. One of the news items was
that many of the slain and wounded among the
Mahdi’s followers had been removed from the
battle field by their relatives.
One day, in December last, the “grand
old man’s ” coachman was suddenly taken so ill as
to be unable to drive his master and mistress to a
dinner. Whereupon, the Earl of Aberdeen, who
was on a visit to Hawarden, donned livery and
drove Gladstone.'and wife to their destination.
Flunkeyism is so natural to a peer that wo see
nothing singular In this Incident. The Queen’s
Grooms-in-Waiting, besides having to wear livery,
have to take out the royal lap-dogs for an airing.
The Rev. John Whyte (Presbyterian), of
Queensferry, Scotland, having got into the habit
of kissing his washerwoman, going into his hired
girl’s bedroom at the dead hours of the night, call-
ing on his young housemaids to wash his feet, and
employing pretty parishioners as “female’’
elders, not unnaturally excited his better-half’s
suspicions. Lord Lea, the Judge, has pronounced
the rev, gentleman guilty of adultery with two
of his handmaids, and has granted Mrs. White a
divorce.
Oscar Wilde’s only peculiarity of dress
now is wearing his shirt cuffs over his coat. The
other day he gave a lecture of two hours in the
Crystal Palace, entitled “The House Beautiful,”
which was entirely free from nonsense. Public
opinion is veering, and one London paper asserts
that Oscar “Is a man of exceptional talent, and
perhaps not the least proof of it is that having
made use of the ladder of eccentricity to climb to
popularity, ho now so easily dispenses with it, and
takes a firm stand upon his undoubted ability.”
Apropos of Tennyson’s elevation (?), the
Saturday Review thinks that a peerage would
have conferred honour on C.csar, Pericles, bhak-
speare, or Michael Angelo. An English House of
pheasant-breeders and descendants of court-pimps
raising Shakspeare to an equality with themselves
—bringing him up almost to the level of
the erince of Wales or the Duke of Cambridge!
Oh, Christ-opher Columbus! By the way, didn’t
Ferdinand and Isabella confer a patent of nobility
oh Christopher Columbus ? We forget. Nobody
remembers, in fact. But nobody forgets Colum-
bus.
Lotti Wilmot — “ the well-known and
talented lecturess on social matters," as the
Maori papers facetiously call her—is down on her
luck at present, and lies in a most precarious con-
dition at the house of a Mr. Morret, of the Lower
Hutt. Her whereabouts would have remained
unknown but for a letter written to an Auckland
gentleman, in which she states she has been suffer-
ing intense agony, and confined to her bed for
four months. Poor Lotti! H er last lines read: “ If
1 have any friends I need them now. I am here, I
fe ir, on a death-bed.” This is a mighty slim look
out, indeed, for as a rule our friends stop out with
our fortunes.
The way to titular distinction is not hard,
but it’s horridly mucky now-adays. A man of
great genius can win distinction by his command-
ing. A man of mediocre abilities and strict self-
respect hasn't a chance. But a man ol mediocre
abilities and no self-respect at all has almost as
good a chance as a man of genius. Distinctions
are like those pinnacles of which it has been said
that they are accessible only to eagles and creep-
ing things. The eagles—the strong-pinioned great
ones of an epoch—can descend to a title; and the
creeping things can swarm up to the same
height, getting horridly dirty by their wriggling
supine progress. There are creatures who, to be
Knight-men, will do things which mark them as
moral night-men. Phew!
Towards the end of 1878 a small steamer,
the Eva, put into Lord Howe’s Island, and a gale
springing up at night drove her ashore. At day-
light it was found she was bumping heavily within
a few vards of a jagged reef. Anchors had given
way, engines could not get her off, and the only
boat was not fit to launch to lay out a kedge. The
Islanders tried to launch a boat from the beach,
but the sea was too much for them. Then a man
was seen stripping ; he tied a thin line round his
waist and plunged into the surf. He had a hard
struggle, but at last, nearly exhausted, he was
dragged on board the Eva. A heavy line was
quickly stretched from the shore, the boat was
brought out, and by its aid the little steamer
eventually got afioat. Without the line from the
shore she must have gone to pieces. The plucky
swimmer was Captain Armstrong, R.N.
The brand new Baron, Tennyson, in spite
of his published opinion that “the gi’and old
gardener and his wife smile at the claims of long
descent,” has, since his election to the peerage,
permitted it to be known that ho is descended
from “sixteen English kings.” Think ot that.
Why, even his own Clara Vero de Vere, who
*• slow ” her young man “ with her noble birth ” (a
less practicable weapon, by the bye, than even the
jaw-bone of an ass, for slaying purposes)—why, she
was a mere plebeian compared with the Laureate.
And yet hero this dear old gentleman has been
grinding out poetry for more than fifty years, and
the world at large never heard a word about his
royal relations, nor ever would if he hadn't been
made a peer. Poets in this part of the world don’t
keep so quiet about their family connections-one
of ours holds his head uncommonly high because
his uncle’s in the Post-oflice. But “sixteen
English kings”—we breathe hard as we think
about it.
Poor old Jimmy Stephens, one of the
pioneers of the eight hours system is "stone
broke ” in Melbourne at present, and the Trades’-
hall Committe< is ishing the following circular
through the colon;' • (or him ;—“ James Stephens,
who, with others, struggled to achieve this great
boon, is now an old man, almost sightless, and
maimed for life, with both kis arms broken, by a
fall from a scaffold, and thereby rendered totally
unable to provide for himself and his wife during
the inevitably short remainder of his life. The
Trades’-hall Committee of Melbourne, therefore,
appeal to .the public and their fellow-workmen
throughout the colonies to regard this effort for a
national testimonial to this veteran of labour, not
so much from a charitable point of view, as from
a consciousness of the obligations we owe to one
within whose breast was born the germ, and who
devoted the best years of his life to mature the
scheme for the emancipation of his fellow-men
from excessive hours of toil.”
T.iat hardy and adventurous traveller,
the Hon. Thomas Bent,|returned to his Melbourne
home the other day, after a long sojourn in India.
Three months and a half (especially the half) had
Mr. Bent b<=en absent, exploring the far Indian
lands, and his safe return to Australia was, as may
be imagined, hailed with pretty general rejoicing.
The Mayor of Brighton boarded the good ship
Kosetta immediately she touched the pier, and
with tears of joy overflowing from his eyes, took
hold of the Hon. Thomas, conveyed him to a drag,
and drove his legislative burden to North Brighton.
Arrived at Brighton, the scene was one of the
wildest enthusiasm. A band of music struck up
the dear old strain “Home, sweet Home,” and
dozens of Thomas’ constituents pressed forward
to grasp his travel-stained hand. Attended by the
band, he reached his dwelling, and then the wan-
derer, his face, tanned by the Indian sun, expressing
his emotion, “spoke a few words.” To the appro-
priate accompaniment of “God save the Queen,”
the multitude immediately dispersed.
Not having the playshawr of dining with
R. B. Smith of late, we cannot say whether Prince
George is as great an intellectual cuss as his
brother Alb —we beg pardon—Edward is; but
we’re dead certain he’s not half as great a cad.
For instance, on being told his big brother ob-
jected to being called anything else but Edward,
Georgia simply replied, “ Well, I’m blank'd if I
care what they call me, as long as I’m not called
too late for dinner.” And here’s one more true
tale of George’s own. Shortly after leaving Wel-
lington (N.Z.), ho fell in with a lady hostess who
had invited a few friends to see the live lions, and
during the usual chat the hostess asked how he
liked the Vice-regal iball, “Not much,” replied
George the Blunt; “y’seo they fastened an old
dowager on to me at the start, and I’m blest if I
could shake her off all night. Had to cart the old
bargee round in six dances. P’raps y’ know her ?
Her name’s Mrs. M. ” Then a silence that
could be felt seventeen streets away fell on all
around, for the “old bargee” was the hostess’s
proud mamma.
In August, 1850, four vessels left Great
Britain to found a home under the Southern Cross.
Not as celebrated as the Pilgrim Fathers, yet more
imposing in number than the immigrants of the
Mayflower—these voyagers were known as the
“Canterbury Pilgrims.” One of these ships was
the “Sir George Seymour,” and on board her, one
of the pilgrims was William Henry Haworth,
artist. Almost from the moment of landing he set
himself, with all the enthusiasm of art, to repro-
duce the lovely scenery of the then almost un-
known Antipodes. The Canterbury and Nelson
landscapes, equalling the vaunted glories of Swit-
zerland ; the great Mount Cook, the snow-crowned
peer of old Mont Blanc: the plains and moraines,
rushing rivers, glaciers, forests, and sea sounds,
the lakes and all the lovely scenes of Maori land,
have been reproduced by him, and form a collec-
tion now exhibited In London, which has earned
for Mr. Haworth a distinguished name—and for
New Zealand scenery a wonder of admiration from
all who have seen his works. His principal pic-
ture represents Mount Cook, a scene of Titanic
grandeur, of which wo gave a description not long
ago In the vivid words of the Rev. Green, the
Alpine climber, who scaled its summit.
Mr. R. T. Booth has been sober now for a
long time. If he hadn’t been so, he would not
have reached Australia. He would have died at
home a dozen years ago. We don’t know which is
worse -to get drunk and die, or to keep sober and
go to Melbourne. This Booth is not the Harmy
Booth. The Harmy Booth is keeping sober also
with the intention of going to Australia. It is a
crazo that lays hold of men who keep off it for a
long time. Man must sin somehow. R. T. Booth
wears a blue ribbon in his coat. A man must ex-
hibit colour. He left off wearing red on the nose,
and now he wears blue in the coat. He was a
barber one time. He is an apostle now. We make
no point out of that, for we don’t know what our
ownlend may be. Depends a little on the baililf.
But when a barber, he says he swilled alcohol fast
as it could bo distilled. Put a nobbier in a basin of
shaving water, and only the basin remained. But
his wife changed his mind. We were never a
barber, but long ago we had a wife, and we can
testify that she often changed our mind and every-
thing else we had. But that Booth had a wife he
would have been dead now, lying silently and
peacefully under a little Yankee mould, insteadof
going round the world tiring off speeches. We
don’t say wo are sorry he had a wife. The wife is
a groat institution that must under every circum-
stance be respected. Yet it tries our feelings when
we regard R. T. Booth. We have to console our-
selves with a hymn:—
Ah, Eve that was married to Adam
And decoyed him aside off his chump.
Your spirit was strong in the madam
That sent Booth around on the stump.
Miss Mary Anderson is the most beautiful
Galatea ever seen on the English stage; but she is
not the best actress, for she does not touch the
heart. That’s the general verdict of the English
critics. She is poetical in appearance and action,
yet is “ considered cold.” says one. “ Whether
designedly, or whether she cannot portray emo-
tion, she is cool and calm as marble,” says another.
“ She is throughout just what one would expect a
vivified Greek statue to be r her every pose is a
picture; her every gesture like a snatch Of some
sweet melody of motion. But there is nothing
more than the exquisite grace and the bewitching
loveliness. Of power or pathos there is no trace.
So says a third. One thinks that “if the gods
could make stone speak, they would endow it
with a little more of human passion than Miss
Anderson shows,” &o. The general conception,
however, of Galatea is that she is periecHy inno-
cent of all human passions, and this is the Ander-
son view. In the risque scene with Chrysos, her
art blinded hearers to the indelicacy of many of
the repartees; while, at the same time, the tine
smile and bright sparkling eye showed only inno-
cence, not stupidity. So little of womanly passion
was there, that even Gilbert’s most suggestive
implications were denuded of coarseness. We
should take this as true art; yet, as neither inno-
cence nor modesty are particularly fashionable
attributes, we can easily believe the audience were
disappointed she did not give them something
more. Most fashionable theatre-goers don t want
things hidden; th«y want them emphasised. Art
is not the most successful now-adaya : spice is.
But, as to Mary Anderson’s beauty, there is no
variation of opinion. As she stood on the pedestal,
clothed in snow-white crope-de-Chino, whose folds
had been studiously arranged by Alma Tadema;
or when she came down innate with life: there, at
last, said the critics of the world, there is a
Galatea as perfect as the poet’s dream. Her re-
ception, night after night, as Cymsca throws the
curtain aside, is rapturous.
Mr. Hickman Molesworth was sworn in as
Victorian County Court Judge before his father,
Mr. Justice Molosworth, on the 1st instant.—
Ah, now, my son, I’m glad to see you—
You have done nothing good or bad;
But thus you’ve climbed to cosy quarters.
High up beside your loving dad!
These other young men have been foolish.
Have taken sides with Might and Right;
But you, wise boy, have shown discretion.
And kept in friends with Right and Might.
So now kneel down and take my blessing:
May your son’s son have equal sense;
And, whether Might or Right be victor,
Why—let foels count the consequence I
Thus the “Rev.” Ward Beecher in ex-
planation of his theatre-going:—“I was brought
up to believe that the theatre was a thing «f evil,
and going to one was as bad as going to the devil.
Going to the theatre was a good deal like going to
an hotel. There were’good hotels and bad hotels.
All that a man must do was to keep away from
the bad hotels. When I wont to see Mr. Irving, I
enjoyed the acting thoroughly, and I would like to
go again. When I did go I went as a Christian
gentleman who had the right to do as he pleased,
in accord with his own conscience. I advise every
young man to follow in my footsteps, and when
ho becomes seventy years old to go and see the
best actors he can find.” We should rejoice to
know whether, when W. B. used to visit the
Tilton, he went as a Christian gentleman who had
the right to do as he pleased—or how ?
Patrick Francis Moran, Bishop of Ossory,
whose appointment to the archiepisoopal See of
Sydney has been announced, though not con-
firmed, was born in County Carlow, about 1839.
Ho is a nephew of the late Cardinal Cullen, who, in
1843, when Rector of the Irish College. Rome, took
charge of his education. Young Moran attended
the lectures at the Roman (Jesuit) College until
the closure of that establishment in the year of
the revolution in 1848. He was then transferred
to the Urban College, where he prosecuted his
theological studies. Amongst his fellow students,
there were the present Patriarch of Armenia, the
Archbishop of Corfu, the Bishop of Arischat, and
the Bishop of Maitland. He was ordained priest in
1853. What leisure Father Moran had from onclesi-
astlcal and educational duties (from 1853 to 1873 he
was vice-rector of the Irish College) he devoted to
historical research, the result of his labours in
that direction being several authoritative works,
notably his “Penal Times in Ireland,” and his
“Memoirs of Plunket, Archbishop of Armagh.”
Dr. Moran is also a profound Hebraist—he occupied
the chair of Hebrew at Romo for several years. In
1873 ho was nominated to the See of Ossory. Bishop
Moran is a tall, spare, energetic man, a good ad-
ministrator, a strict disciplinarian, but no orator.
Under his ripime (should his nomination be con-
firmed) no lapse to the easy-going pne-Vaughanic
times will be permitted. Of that the Fathers
Doublechin may be sure.
Most of our readers will remember the sad
fate of Mrs. Watson, who was left on an island in
the Northern Sea, together with her Infant boy
and a faithful old Mongolian servant, until death
by starvation ended ail their miseries. No sooner
had the tale of the heroic woman’s sufferings been
made known in Cooktown than a movement was
set going to start a “ Watson Memorial Fund”—
and, cn passant, wo may remark it has been going
ever since, but of late rather slowly. It is now
over two years since the first coin was donated,
and the success of the good cause may be guessed
from the fact that the Cooktown Mayor recently
called a public meeting to see if there remained
sufficient cash to pay for the gas and the advertise-
ments in the local papers! During the course of
this meeting, Alderman Blzzell, with the praise-
worthy intention ot not jarring anyone’s feelings
unnecessarily, rose and said “it was nearly two
years since the bulk of the money had been col-
lected, and since that time several of those con-
nected with the committee had left the district, to
whom it would not be delicate to refer more than
was absolutely necessary. Seconded by Mr. Green,
and carried.” Alderman Dick then assumed the
perpendicular, and moved “ That in the opinion
of this meeting the acting chairman and acting
secretary had shamefully neglected their duties in
connection with this Fund.” This resolution wa«
agreed to, and two auditors have been appointed
to worry up the accounts and report to a future
meeting. But the queerest part of all is this:—
Alderman Dick is reported to have said that “ he
and Mr. Watson (the unfortunate lady’s husband)
went to the bank yesterday and found only £111
to the credit of the fund, but when they called to-
day there was £134 3s. there, although no collec-
tions whatever had been made ! ” Putting it
“ delicately,” this seems somewhat shady, and to
all appearance as if some person or persons have
been trading on the fearful death of a brave
woman.
Inspired, apparently, by recent intellig-
ence from Egypt, a little Melbourne paper has
burst forth with this brilliant par.: “Who is
Valentine Baker? Ten years ago he was the dashing
beau sabreur Colonel of a crack regiment. Then
he put his foot in it, and the Queen insisted on his
doing his sentence of twelve months for assaulting
Miss Dickinson in a railway carriage. Then he
distinguished himself with the Turkish army in
the war with Russia.” There’s a pithiness about
that paragraph we admire muchly, and “the
Queen insisted ” is quite too spicy. Mr. Brett (he
has a handle to his name now, we fancy), the
keenest of London magistrates, had the honour of
trying Valentine Baker, and of passing the sen-
tence of “twelve months,” which "the Queen
Insisted on being carried out.” Furthermore, he
gave the gallant Colonel to understand that no-
thing but the young lady’s charitable account of his
“freak” stood in the way of a much sharper
penalty—say, five years. The Queen would have
insisted on that being carried out, too. Brett’s
sentences had a happy knack of being “carried
out:” he must have passed a good many thousand
during his police court experience, and his
Sovereign always condescended to see them
well through. Then, as regards Baker’s ex-
ploits in Turkey, he didn’t distinguish himself
because he didn’t get the chance of doing anything
particular. Ever since this “ pal ” of the Prince of
Wales was dismissed the English Service, it has
been an understood thing, somehow, with the
public that he was “ distinguishing himself;” but
he hasn’t been doing so in any very striking sense
—not so much, in fact, as he "distinguished ” him-
self with Miss Dickinson. The amorous ex-Colonel
has generally be«n engaged in trying to “ organise
a gendarmerie,” or something of that sort, and
making a hash of it, according to all accounts. It
doesn’t follow that another man, under the same
circumstances, would have done better, but we
merely remark that this particular man hasn’t
“ distinguished himself.” Another man might not
have done any better than he, in Egypt, the other
day, but we don’t see how he could have done
much worse. The fact is that a good deal of senti-
ment has been wasted over Val. Baker: there have
always been plenty of people to assert that he was
“an unfortunate man” over the little railway-
carriage incident—but he wasn’t. He was jolly
lucky to get off so easily. The idea that
“there must have been some encouragement
given,” is peculiar to people who never had
the faintest knowledge of the facts of the case,
and never saw the parties concerned. The writer
of this happened to be acquainted with a gentle-
man who saw Kate Dickinson hanging on to the
carriage door at the peril of her life, and screamed
himself hoarse trying to attract the attention of
the guard. He didn’t think there was much “ en-
couragement” given. And very intimately ac-
qualnted. too, was the writer with the gentleman
before whom the Oolonel was hauled when the
train arrived at the terminus. He summed it up
as being, in his own words, “a million to one on
the girl being blameless.” And Mr. Brett, the
most important individual of all, he spoke of the
girl in about the most glowing terms ever used
within the unpoetical precincts of a police-court.
Finally, the Queen (we’ve worked round to her
again, at last) “gave encouragement” to Kate
Dickinson by sending a special request for her
carte de-visite. By the way, Valentine Baker—not
that he can help it—is a very forbidding-looking
gentleman. He may be a “beau sabreur,” but he
isn’t a handsome soldier—far from it.
Warden and Walters (the former ex-
secretary of the Biver Plate Bank) have got, we
are told, twelve years each for indulging in
British grab to the tune of £120,000. Warden cuts
a very sorry figure in the business, “rounding”
on Walters to the detective who arrested him on
board the Buenos Ayres steamer. Walters’ version
of the affair was that he had no idea the securities
deposited with him by Warden wore improperly
obtained ; but his story was regarded as rather too
emaciated by the Judge, who summed up dead
against the prisoner. They will now expiate their
offence at the rate of £12,000 a year—or £6000 each—
and will have ample leisure to reflect upon how
respected and looked up to they would have been
if the sharebroking “Peter” had. only been kind
to’them. Warden is a good musl cian, so will pro-
bably be appointed to grind out tine tune while the
common prisoners give it lip at chapel time, and
Walters, who is a fine speaker, will, no doubt, be
told off to impart religious imitruction to boy-
burglars and Juvenile magsmem. All long-sen-
tenced prisoners of the better class are imme-
diately appointed to some such, billet. The two
Macdonalds and Noyes, who were sentenced to
Imprisonmenment for life for forgeries on the
Bank of England are all officers’ servants
at Millbank, and are quite dandy prisoners,
being permitted to wear white collars and
elegant articles in the sock line. These men
were, perhaps, the boldest and most ingenious
swindlers ever known. By representing them- .
selves as agents for the Pullman Car Company,
they managed to ingratiate themselves with
Colonel Francis, manager of the Cockspur-street
branch of the Bank of England, and by an elabor-
ate system of forged bills, contrived to get, within
three months, nearly as much as Warden got out
of the Biver Plate Bank in 14 years. They were
remarkably fine-looking men, and of an exceed-
ingly gay turn of mind—a circumstance which had
not a little to do with their capture. When ar-
rested, Noyes said to the detective “Oh, guess
you’d better come round to Mac.’s room at the
Cannon-street hotel, and we’ll settle this little
matter.” No sooner, however, were they all
arrested, than a girl named Ada Grosvenor “ blew
the gaff ” upon the whole concern, when it was
found that they had bill-plates of every principal
London firm, and had sent to the Brevoort House,
in ’Frisco, “a portmanteau full of American
bonds,” which they had purchased with the pro-
ceeds of the forgeries. Macdonald, the elder, was
found to have at his lodgings, over 80 suits of
clothes! while both wore enormous diamonds,
and hundred-guinea watches. An attempt was
made to show that Noyes was only a paid
servant, and knew nothing about the frauds,
and he certainly seems to have been in
different circumstances to the others, as, in her
evidence, his landlady said that when he arrived
at her house all the luggage he had was a hat-box
and a galvanic battery! When they were con-
victed, the bank gave Ada Grosvenor £1800 and paid
her passage to—where do you think ?—Australia,
of course! and she is said to be now keeping a
public-house in Sandhurst. A desperate attempt
was made by the relatives of the Macdonalds in
America to effect a rescue when they were
brought up at the Old Bailey, and dozens of the
Newgate warders were got at by means of money
and passage tickets to Queensland. But the autho-
rities got wind of it, somehow, and the whole staff
of turnkeys were changed before the trial came
on. These men had not, like Warden, to just go
to the safe and help themselves, but displayed
marvellous tact and ingenuity in the perpetration
of their frauds. It was this that got them their
life-sentence. It is understood that twenty years
islnow the limit of imprisonment in most cases;
but it is doubtful if these men will ever be set at
liberty, the Judge remarking that they were too
dangerous enemies to society to bo at large. The
late Dr. Kenealey was one of their counsel, but
their case was so hopeless that he did not even put
in an appearance. He was at that time engaged
daily in paving the way of the Claimant to Dart-
moor.
* * ♦
Mr. Morton, Assistant Curator of the Aus-
tralian Museum, is leaving to occupy the position
of Curator to the Hobart Museum, Tasmania—
The M’Elhone, M.L.A. (why not C.M.G., for he’s
almost—ahem!—enough for it?), leaves for Eng-
land in six weeks m connection with an appeal In
the disputed will case of the late John Browne, of
Singleton A man named Lyne suicided at Goul-
burn last week. Clothes lyne,... Mr. John Rad-
clifle, the well-known flautist, from England, has
been marx-ied to Madame Pauline Kita, the voca-
list Boustin, editor of the Australian, of
Richmond (Vic.), referred to Mrs. Clancy as a
“ charming landlady.” Consequences : Husband,
horsewhip. Consequences to Clancy: Police
Court, £10 and costs. Now, what we want to know
is, what Clancy objected to. Was it terming Mrs.
C. “alandlady,” or falsely terming her “charm-
ing.” Saynyir-Coonstable Roche, av Blayney,
has just summoned a storekeeper named Nesbitt
for calling him a “commonplebeian!” The charge
was entered under the head of abusive language,
and really the term “ common plebeian ” sounds so
much like the familiar compliment which the
“ foorce ” loves to apply to common women that
the bold Roche’s mistake is pardonable. But the
Binch dismissed the case, and the insoolted Saynyir-
Coonstable thramped off declaring, “ Divil a ha’-
porth o’ joostice can a Jintlemln git in this dhirty
land at arl, at arl. D’ye moind me, now ?”
* * *
An article on Adam Lindsay Gordon, the
poet of the Australian “ bush,” will shortly appear
in Temple Bar. The author is Mr. Arthur Pat-
chett Martin, founder and sometime editor
of the Melbourne Review A London
paper, mentioning that the Lord Mayor of
London has revived this year the children’s ball,
omitted by his predecessor, hopes that as it is
limited to boys and girls under 16, “people will
not have the impudence to smuggle in sons and
daughters of 22, as they did before,”
AN INTRODUCTION.
“ Allow me to introduce Mr. Smith,—
Attorney.”
“Oh, don’t apologise, my dear fellow;
I have no prejudices. There are honest
men in every profession, you know.”


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
. tr/ shall be glad to have this Index posted up tnj
lW Jeretaries of racing clubs and managers of
* sporting events in general .1
RACING#
*”’Sr B £S* h J ' c v.v.vRSSS: $
SSS—
Wellington Annual ' SfSh.17, S
Albury - • - v,' q ’ ’ March 22.
%!toballn P ’ .'' V.'’‘'.'.... March36, 27.
Hawkesbury R.C. Autumn "Anrii s’ fl’
SSJfcM B.O.V.V.V. JUD« 4,5.
AQUATICS
Balmain Rowing Club Regatta. .... -•.•••• March23,
Intercolonial Eight-jar Race, Victoria v.
N.8.W April 5.
athletics.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May %>•
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Last Saturday’s play for the Junior Cup :
Osbornes 110, Bugbys 8 wickets for 73.
The Orientals defeated the Liverpool team
on Saturday last by 8 wickets and 10 runs.
The Otago cricketers defeated the Tasma-
nian eleven, at Wellington (N.Z.), by 8 wickets.
The Glebe Bowling Club on Saturday last
formally opened their new ground, Wentworth
Park.
At Christchurch (N.Z.) the Victorian
bowling team defeated the local ditto by eight
points.
F. M‘Evoy won the fifth competition for
the Victoria Cup, in connection with the Melbourne
Gun Club.
On Thursday last, Ewin defeated Lindsay
in a two miles walking match at the Hippodrome,
Pitt-street, in 15 min. sec.
At Christchurch, N.Z., a recent arrival
from Australia, supposed to be Weiss, defeated
Kandal in a billiard match for £20 a side, 500 up.
Mr. Wentworth purposes taking the chest-
nut colt by Grand Flaneur from Amethyst (imp.)
to England. He is one of the handsomest colts
that ever stepped into a ring.
On Saturday last, at Auburn, R. K. Camp-
bell defeated T. Hyde in a 100-yards’ spin for £100;
and at Botany, J. W. Byrne beat M. Leigherman in
a 150-yards’ race for £30 a side.
In the Handicap Race for open boats, on
Saturday last, in connection with the S.A.S.C., the
Kegina won, the Rosetta was second, and the Velox
was distanced. The St. Crispin treated her crew
to an unsavoury bath off the Fort Macquarie
sewer.
The Eclipse Stakes of £10,000, to be run for
at Sandown Park (Eng.) in 1886, fell short of the
stipulated 300 entries by 30 only. The authorities
have decided to carry out the engagement, with
its reduced, but still enormous, entry of 370 sub-
scribers.
Mr. S. Fairbairn, who rowed No. 7 in the
Cambridge Eight in the Inter-’varsity Race last
year, rowed in the same seat in the winning crew
for the Cambridge Trial Eights. It is regarded as
likely that he will occupy the No. 7 position in the
next contest with Oxford.
Roberts, the Wallsend cricketer, now
drinks his “ medecine ” out of the silver cup
given by Mr. J. C Ellis for the highest score in
the recent Australian match; and lack Wood has
walked off with Mr. C. H. Hanne'l’s trophy for
the highest bowling average.
It has been proved by a recent examina-
tion of the accounts of the London (Eng.) Athletic
Club that tho club is indebted to the Messrs.
Waddell to the extent of something like £350 for
cash advanced, and that these ex-offlcials had not
In any way defrauded the L.A.C.
Mr. Owen Friend’s Cup for competition at
the Yass pigeon match, to be tired on the 23rd and
34th May, has been duly received by the executive.
The Yass pigeon match last year proved anything
but a tame affair—in fact, we might say it passed
off in a remarkably lively manner.
By the third drawing for the Junior Cup,
it has been decided that the Osbornes or Rugbys
play the Croydons or Waverleys; the Conserva-
tives play the Carthonas, and the Orientals run a
bye. An endeavour will be made to obtain the
Association Ground for the final contest.
The Yankee press is still very rough on
Courtney. One paper says“ The fact that Court-
ney could not beat the amateurs spared him the
disagreeable necessity of sawing his boat this
time.” And the Philadelphia Times has come to
the sensible conclusion that the only thing left for
Courtney is to row a race with Noah’s ark.
The following are the names of the crew
selected to represent this colony in the forthcom-
ing intercolonial eight-oar race between New
South Wales and Victoria:—C. W, Gaden, S. Mar-
tin, J. Brodie, G. Seale, N. Johnson, J. Thomson, W.
G. Brett, and C. Bros. Emergencies; T. F. Walker,
H. Pickering, R. Moppett, and Webster.
Arthur Fittes, thi> well-known oarsman,
has been getting particular fits of late. First of
all he had the misfortune to be elected to a vacant
seat in the Flemington Borough Council, and a
few days after this his glue factory at Footscray
was burned to the ground. Looks like a judgment
on him for joining the ranks of the Corporation
Army.
Joe Byrnes, of Bourke, recently scooped
in £30 at Cobar by jumping 100ft. in 9 standing
jumps, and then supplemented the pool to the
extend of £28 by clearing 36ft. in three standing
jumps. He has now backed himself to do the 100ft.
stretch in 8 jumps, and the chances are he’ll do it.
Those who know Joe best say he’s a kangaroo from
the waist downwards.
The following officers have been elected in
connection with the Sydney Tricycle Club: Presi-
dent, Mr. J. B. Holdsworth; vice-presidents,
Messrs. George Sloper and Prior; committee,
Messrs. Turner, Tozer, Bennett, Paine, and Jones;
honorary treasurer, Mr. Prior; captain, Mr. T.
Mulholland; sub-captain, Mr. Prior; honorary
secretary, Mr. J. B. Wellings. The first club run
will be held on 1st March.
Ararat (Vic.) T.C. races, Cth and 7th Feb-
ruary:—Chloris won the Maiden Plate, Leonore
the Ladies’ Bracelet, Marchioness the Ararat Cup,
Exile the Selling Stakes, and Bend ’Or the Grand
Stakes. Second day, Leonore annexed the Plying
Handicap, Prattle the Pony race, Sundowner the
Hurdle race, Marchioness the Whisky Mill Purse,
Captain Marryat the Welter Handicap, and Shoot-
ing Star the Selling race.
The Canvas Dingles had lively times on
Saturday last. For J. W. Burning's prize, the
Olivette, Latona, Grand Flaneur, Daisy, Ena,
Florrie, Torment, Carlotta, La Mascotte, Manola,
and Iona started, and after an exciting: spin the
winner turned up in the Latona, Daisy and
Olivette 3rd. During the race the Grand Flaneur
carried away her mast, the Iona her mainsheet,
and the Ena and Mascotte capsized.
“There is one thing very certain, boys,”
said a six-foot-six knight of the willow to a rather
admiring down-the-harbour audience, 1 was
never cut out for a cricketer. I ought to have
been a Prince or a millionaire or a . He had
got thus far when one of the boys cut in with
•• Don’t you think a policeman would have suited
you better than either ?” As the remark was so
very warm, it, of course, cannot apply to Mid-
winter.
The Braidwood Turf Club held their an-
nual races on 6th and 7th February. Lady Fleet-
wood won the Maiden Plate; Sailor won the Hack
Race and Stockman’s Hurdle Race; Reindeer won
the Publican’s Purse; and Hilltop carried off the
Members’ Plate. On the 7th, Labourer won the
Hurdle Race; Oscar went fastest for the Ladies
Mile; Hilltop appropriated the Turf Club Handi-
cap; Warrior won the Selling Race; and Roquette
won the Forced Handicap.
More hints on training are in store for the
amateur athlete who probably has already waded
through many dreary columns of more or less
(chiefly more) unreliable and misleading twaddle.
This time, however, there is a chance of some-
thing better than the general run. since the contri-
bution comes from the pen of the American
wonder, J. L. Myers. It will take the form of a
series of articles in the New Yokk Sportsman,
and probably appear afterwards in book form.
Perkins is having better luck in England
than he had in the colonies. On Dec. 17 he de-
feated Charles Brightwell in a match over the
Thames Champion Course for £100. Some little
sparring was done after the conclusion of the race,
and an offer was made on behalf of the winner to
take £200 to £100 and row Elliot over the Putney-
Mortlake course. Nothing, however, came of it,
but it is far from unlikely that Perkins will shortly
be matched against Largan, who has repeatedly
challenged the last-named.
In England, last year, Mr. Lefevre was
second on the list of winning owners, with £16,000,
while the late Mr. Stirling Crawfurd, who was first,
was credited with £26,000. This year Mr. Lefevre
is first with £20,500. and he has also won about
£3000 in France; but this leaves him far behind the
Duo de Castries, whose horses have won nearly
£30,000, of which about half was secured by
Frontin, the winner of the French Derby and
Grand Prix. Lord Falmouth, who is now second
with £18,400, has won £90,000 during the past few
seasons.
Here’s the style those irreverent Auckland
ink-slingers talk about our champion walkist
•‘Edwards, the pedestrian, sent the following
telegram to his ‘ friend ’ Pollock at Wellington
‘ Good-bye. Think I will have a pleasant voyage.
Compliments of the season.’ The Post says
others besides Pollock regret the walkist’s sudden
departure.” And right here let us observe that
the band banditti who played for the recent Clues
v. Raynor tussle, showed a great deal of ability
and “sarcastic” wit when they struck up “Do
they miss me at home,” as the walkers lapped
along.
The Victoria Amateur Turf Club held its
February meeting at Caulfield on Saturday last, in
the presence of a meagre attendance. Anagram
made an easy win of the Selling race: Vanguard
romped in lengths ahead of Sundowner for the
Handicap Hurdle race; Camerine won the Hawkes-
bury Handicap by three-quarters of a length from
Ironmaster, Agitation third; Governor made an
easy win of the Handicap Steeplechase; the St.
Valentine’s Handicap fell to Zantippe; and Iron-
master cantered in three lengths ahead of Boister-
ous for the Welter Handicap.
The Unicycle recently patented in Ame-
rica consists of a single gigantic wheel, with the
usual double series of spokes diverging from the
tire to the hubs at each end of what ought to be
the axle, but is not. The hubs are connected, but
in such a fashion that room is left inside the wheel
tor the driver of the thing. The wheel may be
from seven to ten feet in diameter. The cyclist
can stand, sit, or ride at will inside. He cannot be
thrown out or over, and is thus safe from acci-
dent. The inventor claims that the concern can
be driven faster or slower than the ordinary
bicycle, and can be brought even to a standstill.
There was a shade of unpleasantness in
the paying over of stakes in connection with the
recent Clifford-Pearce race. Clifford, in accord-
ance with the usage that the winner has the
privilege of naming the house where the stakes
are to be paid over, fixed upon Trickett’s, but the
stakeholder refused to attend at the place men-
tioned. Clifford, however, was equal to the occa-
sion, and called in quietly and unexpectedly for
his cheque, which action must have had a slight
influence on the number of accumulated three-
fiences counted up by the stakeholder on the fol-
owing morning. It seems a pity Trickett’s house
Is not higher up town, as he is such a general
favourite we have no doubt he would get more
pickings from aquatic men. Anyway, wo do not
think the stakeholder gained any more in popu-
larity than he did in pocket by his refusal to give
the ex-champion a chance, and we would remind
him that it was not in this style that the late James
Punch worked his hotel into the aquatic head-
centre.
At San Francisco, on November 29, Hanlan
gave his promised exhibition with Stevenson, the
local champion. Unfortunately, however, the
water was so rough that the regatta was a failure,
and all that the "exhibitors” did was to have a
short spin, in which Stevenson’s boat got water-
logged, and he went ashore. Hanlan concluded
his part of the business by showing a few tricks,
such as standing on the riggers, sculling hand over
hand, &c., and finally retired wet to the skin.
After this the remainder of the racing was post-
poned until the morrow, when Hanlan declined
to row, claiming that he had already earned £120
firomised for the exhibition, which, to say the
east, appears to have been very easily earned.
The mooting held at Lord’s, under Lord
Harris’s presidency, with the object of putting
down unfair bowling, absolutely effected nothing.
It passed resolutions to the effect that umpires of
counties should all promise to be good, and dis-
courage throwing as much as possible, but the
chairman himself acknowledged he was utterly
unable to define a throw. The most conspicuous
thrower in England Is admitted to be Crossland,
of the Lancashire team. Mr. Hornby, the Lanca-
shire captain, never put Crossland on unless affairs
looked remarkably blue for his county; which, in
view of the usually fatal effect of Crossland’s
bowling—or, rather, throwing—left Hornby open
to the suspicion that he was a very bad captain, or
that he was ashamed to put him on until actually
driven to it.
Before Donald Dinnie left ’Frisco he
wrestled a mixed match with Tom Nolan. The
toss for choice of first style was won by Nolan,
who selected collar-and-elbow, by which he threw
Dinnie by a side turn in eight minutes and twenty
seconds. The second bout was a Scotch back-hold,
at which stylo Dinnie throw Nolan in exactly four
seconds. A side-hold, the next stylo, Nolan won
handily in two minutes by Dinnie breaking his
belt-hold, but his two falls were immediately tied
by Dinnie gaining the Gra?co-Roman bout by a
back-hold fall in one minute ten seconds. The
men, disagreeing as to the fifth style, they tossed
for choice, which Nolan won, selecting catch-as-
catch-can. At the first break Nolan brought
Dinnie to the ground by a log-hold, but failed to fol-
low him closely enough, and was thrown by Dinnle
In one minute, the latter thus taking the match
and money. Dinnie’s last effort at making a match
before leaving the States was to challenge Georg©
Robinson to lift dumb-bells with him, he (Dinnie)
agreeing to bet that he could put up a fifty pound
bell seventy times. Owing to lack of time the
trial did not take place.
Splendid all-round billiard play was shown
in a game of 4000 up, between John Roberts, jun.,
and Joseph Bennett, played recently at the Aqua-
rium (Eng.). The chief feature of the game was
that the spot stroke was barred, so that the play
was of a more than usually interesting character.
The highest break in the match was made by
Bennett, who on that occasion scored 171, while
Roberts’s best break was 161. Bennett, although
he received 400 points, was beaten by 847 Roberts
play throughout was of the most brilliant kind,
and was much applauded. To show to what pitch
of perfection the game is arriving in England,
in a little match at Brixton, W. J. Peall went out
(1000 up) in two innings, his opponent scoring four-
points only. Peall’s breaks were 837 and 174, yet
this player Is only looked upon as a third-rate
player at best.
The throwing trouble is of very old stand-
ing with English cricketers. In 1837, a match for
one thousand guineas a side was arranged between
Sussex and the rest of England, A rubber of
three games was to be played : one at Sheffield,
one at Lord’s, one at Brighton. The first two were
won by Sussex, but before the third came off a
round robin was signed by nine of the England
eleven-all professional players, including Pilch.
Caldecourt, Marsden, and Bragley—to the effect
that they would take no part in it “ unless the
Sussex players bowl fair, that is, abstain from
throwing,” the “throwing ” then being the round-
arm bowling, of which Sussex was the birthplace,
and Lilly white and Broadbridge the great ex-
ponents. Nothing, however, came of the protest.
The match was played; most of the protesters
took partinit; Llllywhlte and Broadbridge bowled
unchallenged, and England won by 34 runs.
A Melbourne paper has given publicity to a
wager said to have been made by a “ sporting
doctor,” at the Geelong meeting. The ‘ sporting
doctor,” so says this paper, took £1000 to £3, that
he found the treble event —the winners of the
Newmarket Handicap and Australian Cup, and
(now comes the bonus bouche of the wager) the in-
dividual who will swing for the “ Pottavel
tragedy.” Considering that no one had (or has)
been arrested for this murder, nor even any war
rant issued, this was a particularly sporting in-
vestment, and one that would greatly inter-
est the party selected for the third “event,” if
he (oi 1 she) only knew of it. However, as a com-
mendable delicacy has been displayed in not pub-
lishing: this name, we will venture to hope that he
(or she) never may know of it; otherwise, in the
event of this piece of amateur detectivism not
“coming off,” things might be made unpleasant
for the “sporting doctor.” By the way, what a
splendid idea it would bo for the papers to issue
“coupons” whereon subscribers might record
their “ selections tor undiscovered murders,” and
then hang the party who was favoured with the
largest number of “votes.” There’s something in
this, there is, indeed.
London Truth says:—“ It is vastly fine to
say that racing will pay if the owner does not bet
—an illusion analogous to the Ingenuous idea that
if a man sticks to whist he cannot lose much
money at cards; but people who drivel in this way
forget how manifold are the expenses of a stud, to
say nothing of the original outlay. Lord Falmouth
does not bet, but I confess that practically it seems
to me there is little difference in the end between
betting out-and-out and entering yearlings freely.
He enters ten for the Derby, which in reality
means a bet of £5000 to £850 against his lot; or
twelve months before running he engages eleven
yearlings in the Middle Park Plate, which is a bet
of £3500 to £375. Engaging mares in Produce
Stakes, where the forfeit is often £150, is a still
more expensive game. When people talk glibly
of the number of stakes won by owners, they
forget the forfeits altogether; and in such accounts
as those of Lord Falmouth’s they are necessarily
enormous. Mr. Crawfurd once paid £1100 for the
forfeit of a single colt, a grandly-bred animal,
which turned out worthless; and when one of
Lord Falmouth’s yearlings dies or proves a failure,
it signifies a loss of at least £1000 when forfeits and
expenses of breeding or rearing are taken into
account.”
With regard to the recent running trouble
in Mudgee over the “ Robinson ”-“ Matthews ”
race, a local paper says;—“ Matthews states that
Robinson, who was ‘ a broker,’ and afraid he
would win the race, sent somebody to him, with a
proposal that he, Robinson, should be allowed to
win, Matthews taking a certain amount of the
stakes. To this Matthews objected, as he said he
must come in first. The matter was finally ar-
ranged that Matthews was to win. He paid the
other man £10 down, and was to pay another £10
or £15 after the race. This arrangement, if true,
Robinson upset, for instead of running 4 a bye,’
he won the race, and not only got the £10, but the
amount of the stakes, £50. Robinson’s Story, as
told by his trainer, Budd, is not so clear. In the
first place, he accuses Matthews of running in the
Sheffield Handicap under an assumed instead of
his proper name, Belette (about which more here-
after). Budd alleges he received £30 from Mat-
thews to say nothing about it, and admits that
both matches made, the one against himself for
£10 a side, and the one against Robinson for £50
a side, were arranged as to who should win. Mat-
thews, ho says, after getting the money down,
when spoken to about 4 how the match was to go,’
said they would have to go for it, and that he
(Matthews) was not going to run behind for less
than £20; the consequence was Budd and Robinson
did go for each match, with the result as stated.
In reference to the antecedents of these men
bo re particulars may be interesting. In one case
at least the public will be able to see how the
game is carried on. From what we can hear about
Robinson, he was known on the l achlan by the
name of Smith, where he was a noted stockiider.
Under that name he won, or rather divided with
Frank Arnold, another noted runner, for the
champion race at Hay, more than two seasons ago.
He is said to have run 14 or 15 private matches, all
of which he has won, and he is now matched to
run Bishop, of Narandera, at Bathurst, for £100
aside, the race to take place next week. When
entering for the Sheffield he said he was known by
the name of Smith, and, so far as we know, con-
cealed nothing in respect to his past two seasons’
performances. That he is a powerful runner any
person who saw him must admit, and his past
successes justify his backers in matching him
against Malone, a proceeding which they have in
contemplation. Matthews, in contrast to the
others, was quiet and unassuming in his manner.
There was none of that bullying and blow charac-
teristic of the professional ped. who lives on the
game, but, on the contrary, he was rather retiring
and reserved, so much so that until he stripped for
the race no one knew who ho was. Rumour then
to go about that his real name was Belette,
a saddler, of Cootamundra, a pedestrian of note In
that district, and, although no proof could be
obtained, the rumour was generally regarded as
correct. At any rate, he won the Sheffield easily,
and, in the absence of any protest, obtained the
money. In order to ascertain if he really was
Belette, we communicated with a reliable autho-
rity in Cootamundra, and received in reply the
following telegram: 4 Belette was a saddler here,
but removed to Murrumburrah, and has since left
there. He won a £100 priae at Queanbeyan lately.
He is a tall athletic young man, fair complexion,
and about 25 years of age. Don’t know his present,
whereabouts.’ As those of our readers who are
acquainted with Matthews will see the description
does not in any way correspond with his appear-
ance. If net Belette, who then is Matthews ? If
the following, which we received from an undeni-
ably good source, is true. It will be seen that he is
warmer property than even Belette. Mr. Mat-
thews, we are assured, is no less a person than
Fogarty, a native of county Cavan, Ireland, and a
famous runner In the old country. Along with
Malone and somebody else, whose name we have
not yet heard, he competed for some great Inter-
national prize in England. Ho is said to have come
to Australia with O’Leary, and earned considerable
fame in Victoria as a pedestrian.”
• • •
Hales has ridden the winners of three
Geelong Cups-Guinea, in 1883: Gudarz, in 1884 ;
and Linda, in 1884. . . Last week, at Wagga, T.
Spring’s Lively defeated W. Coramins’ Shade m a
coursing-match for a tenner a side.... Tom Sayers,
son of the ex-champion, is a member of a minstrel
troupe recently playing in Sydnev.... The Surreys
and Orientals start a two afternoons private match
on the former’s ground on Saturday afternoon.
• • •
Three gamekeepers in the employ of Lord
Rosebery were recently fired at by poachers. One
of the keepers named Fortune was shot dead—
A German dabbler in figures Invented a scheme to
break the bank at Monaco on a certain mathe-
matical system. He and his friends clubbed to-
gether £3000 to try the svstem. It was a great
success—for the bank, which absorbed the £3000.
Mr. Bonnor paid £7000 when he purchased the
celebrated American trotter and sire, Dexter....
It appears that the late Count Lagrange died
heavily in debt. On dit that the outstanding claims
against him will amount to nearly £30,000
Sir Frederick Johnstone found his time so much
taken up with the Duchess of Montrose’s horses
last season that he has declined to renew the
arrangement, and the stud will be managed by
Captain Machell for her Grace, vice Sir J. Astley.
The Dowager Duchess, who will shortly leave
London for her new villa at Cannes, persists in her
determination never to visit another race-course.
Her horses will run in the assumed name of 44 Mr.
Manton,” and be ridden in the 44 Grafton scarlet ”
of her late husband At a meeting of the London
(Eng.) Athletic Club, C. E. Liles, the well-known
bicyclist, won the boxing competition for novices
list 4tt>. and under A curious case recently
occurred at Sandwich, at a meeting of the East
Kent Foxhounds. Just before the hunt com-
menced the fox made his escape, ran into the
town, sprang through an open window, and made
straight for the drawing-room, where he con-
cealed himself beneath a chair. The room
was closed, and the fox’s whereabouts was re-
ported to the huntsmen, Iwho arrived with the
dogs, shortly afterwards. The disturbed fox
made his exit by the back door of the house—
The Jockey Club must (writes a London paper)
sui’ely have more money than they know what to
do with when they can afford to waste £300 over a
race for Arab horses, to be run for at the July
meeting next. year. M r. Blunt,the friend of Arabi,
also contributes £100 to the same prize ; but his
object is too apparent, as the importer of several
of the so-called 44 high caste” Arab horses and
mares to cross with English thoroughbreds, under
the delusion of improving the breed of the latter.
HOSPITALITY.
“ Oh, Jones, old boy ! So glad to meet you. Come and dine with us.”
“Sorry, engaged already. Can’t.”
“ Well, then, look here—Lend us half a sov.”


Tlxe ZSelialolo B-u.g'g-les!
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLAEENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOB GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION.
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to Indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT :
567a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL), SYDNEY.
The SMITH Organs
Sole Agents:
CHAMPION
ANDJ
BRUCE.
tmcs
m
IF
m
il:
Have no rival
on the Planet.
281
GEORGE ST.
opposite:
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OF PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
As no
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees countrv
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility. y
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE FOR 1884
Has been further Improved and Lightened in weight. _
The Lr ljIAL CLUB has always stood at
head of the trade, and as now improved >
is unquestionably the GRANDEST
Machine that has ever been offered.
Our SEMI-RACERS are strong
< enough for Road Riding,
; and light enough for
the Track
%
#
OUR BICYCLES
HTfee Special Club jg
T&e Australian Club
T&© Universal dlo.
Boys*. Own
Tbe
Cite yles more
3Mte Imperial Club
The Humber Pattern
&c., &c.
OUR TRICYCLES
FOR 1884 combine all
the improvements that were
suggested by the experience of
1883, and as each style of Machine
has been further lightened without decrease
of strength, our.TRICYCLES will be even more JL^
in 1884 than they were during 1883. w
4 and Imperial [Club .Tricycles.
I
B9“ ON SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 16.
2 GRAND PERFORMANCES WILL BE O
GIVEN BY THE
PARAGON of SHOWS
Doors open at 3 and 7 p.m.
G. CHiARINI’S
GRAND CIRCUS
AND
MEKTAGEHIE.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAT8, and FRIDAYS,
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Rundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Mackay, every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
Bunlnyong .. 3000 Geelong .. .. 600
Barrabool
Burwah I
Cheviot
Derwent
Edina
1000
1000
1500
600
400
Keilawarra ..
Konoowarra
Leura ..
Moreton
Rodondo
You Yangs ..
Gabo 3000
Balmain .. .. 600
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
900
1600
1600
600
1300
700
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 12th February, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
XiORNP
land
*Un£uJ
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
“ A GRILLES” GRAND CONSULTATION
CHAMPION STAKES,
RUN MARCH 8.
5000 Members, at 10s. each.
First Horse £1000
Second do. 600
Third do 300
Starters ” 300
Non-starters ” 300
By letter only, with two stamps, to “ Achilles,”
c.o. Walter Montgomery, Box 73, G.P.O., Sydney.
•c
At B elm ore Park.
THE MAGNET OF ATTRACTION I
„ Signor Chlarini
Proudly maintaining- hig Reputation of bavin?
the very best CIRCUS ever brought to
T . , , Australia 1
If you wish to see a really First-class Circus and
Callstbenlc Exhibition,
A GREAT ENTERPRISE 1
Which places before the Public many things never
before dreamt of, in the shape of Riding, Vaulting,
Tumbling, Rope Dancing, Performing Horses,
Sensational Acrobatic and Gymnastic Perfor-
mances; Great Mid-air Artistes, Jugglers, Wire
Walkers, Contortionists, Singing and Dancing
Clowns, Globe Runners, Double Somersault
Throwers, Hat Spinners, and
Performing Lions 1 Performing Tigers !
Educated Elephants I Go and see
CHIARINI’S GREAT SHOW !
IBS" the ROYAL BABIES.—The Tiger Cubs
only a few days old, and the only ones ever
born on Australian soul, will be brought into the
Circus and shown to the Ladies, Gentlemen and
Children present.
To see these queer, quaint, suckling wonders in
conjunction with the many other attractions of
this Colossal Show, thousands nightly throng the
Pavillions.
50 Renowned Artists (Ladies and Gentlemen),
from the best Equestrian and Gymnio Schools of
Europe and America, in wonderful and classic
horsemanship, and astounding Gymnastic and
Acrobatic feats, and Signor Chlarlnl’s (The King of
Horse Educators), unrivalled collection of Tho-
rough-bred and highly trained Horses and Ponies.
L. MAYA,
Secretary.
O
PER
Sub-lessee and Director
Business Manager
Treasurer
HOUSE.
W. J. Wilson.
Signor E. Majeroni.
Monty Browne.
Joe Brown.
MONDAY. FEBRUARY 18,
First production in Australia of Sardou's
greatest work,
FEDORA
FEDORA
FEDORA,
by Signor and Signora,
MAJERONI MAJERONI
MAJERONI MAJERONI
Entirely New Scenery, Costumes, Appointments,
Properties, &c.
Box Plan now open at Huenerbeln's, 411 George-st.
Prices Dress Circle, 5s.; Stalls, 3s.; Pit, 3s.
Tickets at Robertson’s, next Theatre. Carriages
at 10.45.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musqrovh.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
the
WILLIAMSONS,
MISS MAGGIE MOORE & J. C. WILLIAMSON,
STRUCK OIL and the CHINESE QUESTION.
Prices of Admission:
DRESS CIRCLE, 5s.; STALLS, 3s.; FAMILY
PTPlPT.IP 9a
1. IB G1C71
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, EVERY EVENING.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT.
13?" For future arrangements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above.
N.B.—Amateurs “ coached,” and pupils prepared
for the stage in all its branches.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL, CUDAL.
To Travelling Companies, Lecturers, Ac.
TO LET, the above large and well-appointed
Hall. Sitting accommodation for over 200
people; splendid piano, scenery, &c. Terms
reasonable. Apply to
H. HURLEY TORR,
Hon. Secretary,
School of Arts, Oudal.
BLEND
trade]
MARK
-ll
BLEND WHISKY—This is a BLEND
V' Of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bmlng fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and Savour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.


fls. «d. 7s. Od. 5s. Oil. per pair.
The Oriental Gold Company
( OtI 1 A liofxo Unn „ D 1 • . m ■■ m < > ~ _
(Only Australian place of business, 47-4 Waorge-
strect, opposite the Central Entrance to the
Markets),
has solved the problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQUISITE GIFTS from 5s. to £5:
. .. \ t uu Arum ua. tu
Articles or dainty design and enduring beauty,
which will give delight at the first glance, and
will last a lifetime.
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
of the alchemist s laboratory. There have been
(rood and useful imitations of sterling gold before
It: but all have been thrown into the shade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
Oriental Gold cannot, after years of wear, bo dis-
tinguished from the costliest wares of the gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
goods of old and inferior designs are manufac-
tured ol it. the discoverers have not condescended
to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
rnnGniUllTT nrl'fli fhnix nwA/ln/ti-lnn j a ■
r ** x Yy , UUIU Dim U i'
taneously with their production In sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
. GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
metal.
offlje goods are mounted with the NEW
iTLAMONDS, another masterpiece of the chemists
ot the nineteenth century-artificial stones which
equal the noblest brilliants in fire and glitter, and
rival them in hardness.
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
receive their happiest conceptions. The most
graceful Parisian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
CALL AND INSPECT— EXACTLY OPPOSITE
THE MARKETS;
f T i 1 r^8 *dont ofthe country, write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
and not pestered to buy, because we know that no
»il« h fl e X er^. et J v ??T ed ou r Foods without being
astonished and delighted with their variety, ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—and such
impression, spread among acquaintances, do us
good all the time.
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At 5s. cadi.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Ring.
A Set or Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A Pair of Jewelled Ear-rings.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. 6(1. each.
Handsome Brilliant Ring.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladles’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem Ring.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15s. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnitlcent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £1 each.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies’ Tasselled Slide Albert.
Gentlemen’s Esthetic Fob Chain, with Steel
Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies’ Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain,
(Stem-winder—5s. extra.)
Lady’s verv handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and a ssels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
3lia' ’
■ reliable, sound watch, i
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
(Stem-winder—6s. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
gllsn Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—10s. extra.)
Gent’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At £5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and Now Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— If the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
thkatrb BOV Air-; 44 StruckOil ” v. S.
„ , Horrsic — Jealousy :?•
Chiabini’s Royal Italian Circus ib.
And when at the footlights she stood,
Sam petticoat, bustle, or ehignon.
None missed them-all hung on the flood
N Of melody warbled by Mignon.
”^lteng^out? we had been yon
smokef whiteshe* 1 chirruped as Mignon.
. » •
wo seldom put on jam. Indeed, it is quite
a ru ie. Not that we are hard to
the other wa>. as a tional but because we
or love t° c °e nce 0 ‘ { J 8a y in g nice things ef
bo seldom g „ witbout departing from that lov «
the which we have suffered so much,
of truth for which c hance with “Mignon.”
Well, the Turners gave fl ni8 b. Miss Mon-
Tt is most tcTdo, and does it in a way that
t"^e th s a r Oisy and the pit demonstrative
makes the staus j Mignon—a wee bit too
Yes: 8 he * S perhaps, for the u.tra-fasti-
much avoirdupois,ng all the same. She has an
dious-but charming ghe discover8 and tries
infectious laugh, ana t (al . the . r als used by
on her own face rue along—unless you
Filina. obon £(RsorderedVomach, or recognise
happen to have blocking up the passage,
your principalfallow ’’ song with Verdi she was
It was in the swa It was very enjoyable,
beard to ™ost advantage. red gQ Bpontane ou«
jt was done so clean Qn the cadencea and
that even we, who once n (eheu! how the
chlrrupings of found ourselves
the floor with a stick like the shaft of a
poundmgtho noor we carry that
buggy- jj* and wo don’t intend. Nor why we
stick? No-ana w life . preserV er8 and things
are bulged out wit n guess ? So,
when attend the was captivating. The Signor
Annis, as we sal $ h ” ther be was ashamed ot his
was a bit off. * certain it is that he was just as
dress or his lyre, c Tho lyre he carried was a
often out of tune as or Mi g n on was to be pitied
plump fingers loafed about among the
strings, while the piano In the orchestra supplied
the music.
On Friday, the 15th instant, Miss Annis
Montague takes a benefit, presenting the’opera of
44 Faust”—a little fact which denotes the near
closing of the opera season at the Gaiety. Doubt-
less this city will do honour to the charming song-
stress in a bumper house, for assuredly no artiste
in these times has won such permanent popularity;
and very rare instances are there, indeed, in the
history of the Australian stage where perform-
ances so numerous and so arduous are on re-
cord in an individual operatic career. Miss
Montague has probably been the most con-
stant lyric artist we have seen in these colonies,
for, without a single instance of failure, she has
borne the chief work of all the operas produced
by the company. In Adelaide, Melbourne, Bris-
bane, and Sydney, and throughout New Zealand,
Miss Montague has won a personal reputation as a
cultured lyric artist. For over 1000 nights, since
arriving in this colony, has this brilliant lady
made her appearance on the stage—scarce once
failing to enrapture the public with the charming
melody of her voice. For the benefit which is
tendered Miss Montague “Faust” will be pro-
duced, and the best performance of the season
may be expected. It is understood that the lovers
of the lyric art in this city will not let the occasion
Sass without signifying their appreciation of Miss
lontague’s efforts in the cause of classic song,
* * * *
They are the same—no, they are better
than when when we last saw them. They are also
stouter. 44 Maggie ” has now reached that stage
of agreeable embonpoint so prized by middle-class
Frenchwomen—and their marts. But she mustn’t
put on any more 44 side.” At present she can
trill and skip, flirt, and scrub windows with even
more easy abandon than of old —but we would not
answer for the consequences if she had another
half-hundred of protoplasm to hump about. Oh,
as if you didn’t know I Of course, we’re speaking
of the Williamsons in 44 Struck Oil.” They com-
menced on Thursday (7th), and, so far as appear-
ances go at present, the Melbourne Cup won’t be
far off by the time they’ve done. 44 Struck Oil ” is
now as well known in Sydney as—as the Atbana-
sian Creed, or Sir H. Parkes, or the Town Hall
foundations, or other things that people believed
in once upon a time. The title of i he piece might
be altered to 44 Williamson and his wife,” for, with
any other John and Lizzie Stofel, the thing might
be made as acutely agonising as a Young Men’s
Christian Society’s debate on female suffrage.
Lizzie is the prince of tomboys. You feel
instinctively that, if she were your daughter, you
would be kissing her all the morning and belting
her with a clothes-prop during the remainder of
the day. But, whether singing or dancing, stuffing
her parent’s pipe with beeswax, or saluting M.
Skinner in the diaphragm with the soft end of a
dry mop, she keeps the house in a state of pleasant
enjoyment all the time —no great outbursts of
merriment, you know, but a nice simmer of satis-
faction. And she reaches your lachrymal glands,
too, does Miss Lizzie. On more than one occasion
we noticed portly matrons, and even dress-coated,
matter - of - fact - looking tradesmen, squinting
straight down their noses and shifting uneasily in
their seats. It might have been the neat, but—it
might not. In fact, she has many accomplish-
ments- a capacity for standing on her head among
others. She did not strike you as being a person
who would ever succeed in making a name for
herself by this unnatural inversion, but rather as
one who would do her best to learn it, if only to
render her step-mother’s life more comfortable.
But she struck you as being—well, the Lizzie Stofel
whom others may approach, but not equal.
♦ * *
And John, her father ? Just as good in his
way—just as maddeningly stupid as ever. 44 1 don’t
like to work, but I vasn’t lazy,” he remarks, ig-
norant of the profound problem in casuistry to
which he has given utterance. But through his
stupidity there runs a thread—a good, tough strand
of the soundest common-sense. He has important
papers to be placed in safety. He doubts his wife s
ability to preserve them, but has no doubts at all
about his own. He is sure about himself —that he
would lose them to a certainty. So he hides them
under a brick. Odd, is it not, the number of im-
portant documents that have been placed under
bricks for safety ? The worst of this plan of pre-
serving papers is that you always forget where
yeu put the brick.
♦ * *
Stofel’s exasperating imbecility as a re-
cruit would justify his summary execution. We
know this, because we’ve been in that line our-
selves—not as recruits, but as instructors. Yes;
we were once a 44 sojer,” and had to take our
whack in teaching Hodge and Pat and Sawney how
to let daylight through any Russians or French-
men that said Bull didn’t wallop creation. Oh I
the wearying, heart-breaking process of changing
44 Johnny Raw” into 44 Johnny Boiled! But it
was with the Militia raked out of the boilers and
soup-kitchens of Melbourne and Sydney to fight
in New Zealand that we had the job. And they
were lilies—lilies of the valley. One squad in
particular under our immediate supervision was
so clever in the clothes-line and hen-roost
branches, that the settlers came voluntarily
to the camp with the best spring chickens
and warmest underclothing, for the purpose of
diverting the squad’s attention from them
and fixing it on the Maoris. It was in their
retreat these warriors brought out all their
best points; and as they always retreated annex-
ing everything in their road home, their best points
wore never long out of sight. The chief disturb-
ing factor in the company was a swivel-eyed but-
cher from Balmain. Unquestioning obedience is a
soldie-’s first duty, and it was just here that this
pirate was maddeningly deficient. He was a born
controversialist. For him the word 44 discipline ”
was as unmeaning as the 44 x ” of a cubic equation
to the person who never went beyond long division.
If the commander ordered that a 44 pah ” should be
rushed in front, this iconoclast was ready with a
dozen reasons to show that it would be better to
march by it or squat down before it—well out of
range—like the allies before Sebastopol. Masterly
inactivity was his strength; and ns long as the
Maoris didn’t trouble him, or cut off his supplies of
grog and salt-junk, he could be relied upon not to
cause them any inconvenience. All these bitter
memories of a dead past took possession of as we
saw John Stofel at drill and on sentry.
• * •
There was once a Deacon Skinner, and his
name was Stuart O’Brien. After him, all other
Skinners are but leather and prunella. And now
you see the disadvantage that Sefton labours
under. ’Tisn’t that he’s a bad Deacon, but a better
preceded him. It is a case of 44 c'est hon, mats ce
n’est pas Chic."
* * * *
The Majeronis have been drawing good
houses during the week, although there has been
no change in the programme, But, on Monday
next, Sardou’s 44 Fedora ” will be given. It was as
Fedora that the 44 divine” Sara electrified Paris
and replenished her purse, just as the last sou
in the latter was reached. It is in the same
character that Signora Majeroni will have
an opportunity of touching up Sydney. We
believe she will succeed, and we shall be
happy to chronicle her success. Fedora, as you
know, is a princess, and dresses accordingly. We
have known many princesses in our time—in fact,
we were engaged to one once, but ere the wedding
her cruel father shifted her spine with a boomer-
ang for not bringing home his Saturday night
allowance of rum. But this is by the way. We
believe the Signora’s acting will astonish the
natives, and we are sure her dresses will the ladies.
The company has been strengthened by further
engagements, new scenery has been painted,
“ledora” has been rehearsed seven hours a day
lor three weeks, and (this comes to us from a
doubtful source) Monty Browne has—well, secured
a new dress suit, and will appear in it,
* * * *
The last about Barry Sullivan is that he
was playing a short engagement at the Brighton
(Eng.) Theatre. Hamlet, Richelieu, and Richard
were among his characters. And this carries us
back to eighteen hundred and ever so long ago,
when he first pulled his forelock to a Melbourne
audience. Ventrebleu! how the papers went for
him; and Victoria ! how he went for them. There
were no rapier thrusts on either side ; no fooling
about with foils buttoned; no prodding each
other with crochet-needles or safety-pins. Not
much. The growls of the Argus and the Age,
and the squeaking cackle of all the literary sprats
following in their wake, kept the town in an
uproar for months. Tho 44 critics" told Sullivan
that ho hadn’t got beyond the A B C of his art—in
fact, hadn’t tackled the A properly. That he
might do for a Belgravlan audience, but not for
people who ate five-pound notes in sandwiches,
played skittles with £3-champagne bottles for
pins, and “chucked ” nuggets on the stage to Lola
Montez. He ranted when he should have been as
calm as the sphynx, and was as mild as a member
ot the “Kallzolc” society when he should have
been prancing round the stage, up-ending the
“supes,” and making things uncomfortable for
all. Then 44 Barry ” opened out, asked 44 who are
the critics ?” Gave a list of them and their ante-
cedents; showed—to the intense satisfaction, it
must be owned, of all Melbourne—that whatever
their claims to bo authorities on the best way to
whitewash a fence or engineer a wheelbarrow,
their notions of Shakspeare or of acting were on
a par with Japanese ideas of art; and, in fact, hit
out so fair from the shoulder that tho 44 critics”
clubbed all their efforts in one wild yell of despair,
and then Barry was left severely alone. By and
bye, ’twas discovered that he was not so bad after
all, and (the devil is on tho war-path for copy)
before bis term ended the man who said a word
against Barry Sullivan in Melbourne stood a good
chance of being unrecognisable tor weeks by his
nearest and dearest.
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Chaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1876,
by M. Edouard Favre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
and juror to the Philadelphia Exhibition; —
On the Waltham “ Riverside ” Watch.
.... “The Waltham Company make the
entire watch—from the first screw to the case and
dial. It would even be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work.
They arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given to the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
is what I have seen, gentlemen 1 I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a watch of the
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch for two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, 4 On the con-
trary, I persist in wearing it just as it is. to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, I set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 33
seconds. And this watch is of the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without case).
At my arrival at Lode, I showed the watch to one
of our first adjusters, who asked permission to
4 take it down ’—in other words, to take it to
Eieces. I, however, wished first to observe it; and
ere is the result, which I noted: Hanging, daily
variation, seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the 4 heated room,
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, I handed the watch to the adjuster, who
took it down. After the lapse of a few days, he
came to me and said, word for word: 4 1 am com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not find one such watch among 50,000 of our
manufacture.’
44 This watch, gentlemen, I repeat to you, I took
at hazard—out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watch
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
fentlemen, and I have told you of things such as
have seen them. It remains for us to profit
from this sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at once.”
[A round of applause followed the speaker as he
descended the tribune. 1/
PREPARED TO MEET IT.


PEPPER AND SALT.
There la hardly me revereuce for editors
displaced by the lower orders in Japan that is so
conpicuous amongst the unlived of this happy
country. Here, for instance, is a letter that an
employ6 sent to toe boss of the Japan Gazette
requesting leave of aosence:—
“ My dear Talbot
“ dear oir
“Will you Please give me a only one day
Holday; beepuse, I am very sorry, my house
set in fire atfthls early morning, therefore, I
most look after my family & Co.
“ YODR UP 8T.A I H BOY.”
We don’t think that “ Up-stair Boy ” will ever
climb any higher than he is, until h> emulates the
proceeding of “the Jolly old man.” Editors, by
the way, are mystic creatures. We have known a
great many of them in our time, and purpose
writing a little essay on them for the use of
schools. Here goes
THE EDITOR.
The editor may be said to resemble the oyster ia
two particulars. He is reticent, and invariably
wears a beard. He sits in a chair alHduy, and writes
amongst a heap of rejected sonnets and neglected
sandwiches. He is rather brusque and hard to
please, is the editor, but he brightens up when, in
the middle of a leader, a slight acquaintance
looks in for a little chat and hopes he is not
disturbing him. The editor is a hypocrite
by compulsion. If he were not a hypocrite
he would be slaughtered with bludgeons several
times daily. For Instance, when he writes—
“Isabel, your stands on a Blighted Cactus are
declined with thanks, ' ’he doesn’t thank her at all;
and when you see—“ Jumbuck, your Interesting
paper on how to make butter from kerosene is
unavoidably crowded out this issue,” he really
means that in its place is substituted a sewing-
machine ad. The editor takes a great Interest in
his paper, expecially in the leading columns, and
in the bracketed notes at the end of letters; but he
never reads the sporting. The editor always has
two coats-a black one to go out in, and a silk
duster, which hangs behind the door. In journal-
ism you have to reach the editorial rung of the
literary ladder before you can aspire to two coats.
What the editor shines in, prismatically, is lying,
He continually has to tell those people who have
“ just thrown off a trifle,” and who do not know
him by sight, that he is either out or dead. There
is no record of an editor ever having gone to
Heaven; but In N. S. Wales it is a common thing
for editors to go to gaol. The editor is male, but
at Carooar he is female. He is, likewise, fre-
quently a parson, and occasionally an old woman.
His language is, as a rule, short and epigram-
matic : especially when addressing the fore-
man on the subject of a broken forme. Now, you
know all about the editor.
Two great literary lights have arisen. One
gleams in Gunnedah and calls himself “Bhjah,”
and the other scintillates in Wagga and writes
himself down “ Native.” This “ Native,” writing
of Anniversary Day, comes out of his shell—as a
native should—in a surprising manner, there being
none of that coy reserve, that retiring modesty,
about him, which are so characteristic of the
bashful bivalve from which he takes his name.
The other party (“ Elijah ”) is also a giddy gusher
of the most pronounced type, and while “Native’s’’
article on Anniversary Day is pervaded by a de-
lightful aroma of mutton, hams, and “Bodalla,”
the effusion of “ Elijah ” on the same subject has
that about it which Intuitively suggests tape and
corsets. Chronicling the arrival of the cricketers,
“ Elijah” “noticed on the platform, Jack Lambert
(King of Club), Donny Mac., Arthur Qodhard
George Shea, Alick M'Phie, Jack Bacon, Ted Now-
land, and several others.” The teams set off for
the ground, singing
“ I’m glad I’m shav’d.”
Later, “ Halcrow came prancing (sic) along with
some good-looking articles in the ‘tucker’ line;
knowing that looking at those four-and-twenty
hungry cricketers feeding would not satisfy my
hunger, I tossed off (sic) the park in search of a
dinner for myself.” Very cheerful and genial this,
indeed; but “Native,” like all geniuses, appears to
have his weak side, too. One Paul, a rival writer
—presumably (who knows ?) in the soap and candle
line —has evidently at some time or another taken
a “rise” out of “Elijah,” for that great creature
treats him to a thundering poem, of which the
following is a withering stanza:—
“ There is a hairy-teethed joker,
In the neighb’rhood of Emerald Hill,
He got on the wrong track,
And couldn’t get back,
So he’ll have to stay there still.”
This recalls to our recollection, somehow, that
unkind line of Byron’s about poor Bloomfield,
who
“ Made at once a sonnet and a shoe.”
“ Native,” the Wagga scribe, is even more poetic
than this. The fire of 30,000 candles (Roubaix’S)
burns in his patriotic breast. Listen and admire :—
“Mr. R. Heath, of the Newtown Brewery—who
raised the British ensign on his flagstaff. There
Avas something in this lone flag, as it wantonly
waved [! !1 to the southerly breeze.” And then
proudly “ We have no blood-stained banner,
rent and torn by scores of bloody battles with
which treachery, wrong, and rapine may be asso-
ciated.” Et puis encore “ The star-emblazoned
flag of tne Southern Cross speaks out, not in
thunder tones, but in the gentle whisper of the
the summer winds that sigh through our land*;, of
peace and good-will toward men.” We hardly., on
the whole, know which to admire the moist—
“Eligah” or “Native.” When we have madq up
our minds, we will let you know.
The editor of a certain country paper—a t
journal, we believe, which was the first to flndou
that Andy Lynch was the Grattan of the nine-
teenth century—has had a row with a neighbour-
ing schoolmaster, and has amused himself by
writing a letter respecting the affair to the Hon'
George, Minister for Public Instruction. Mr.
Reid had, of course, a good grin over it, and
forwarded a copy of it to the pedagogue In ques-
tion ; and we are this week in a position to give
certain extracts from this extraordinary epistle.
Now, try and read this seriously: —“ He (the
schoolmaster) sent reports of the proceedings of
the Blanktown Progress Committee to my paper
on two occasions, and then ceased, and sent them
to another paper. . . . He has conceived it to
be his special business in life to injure the circu-
lation, and generally to damage the business, of
my paper. . . . Owing to his false and mail-
clous reports many subscribers of very old
standing have given up the paper and sub-
scribed to another published in a neighbouring
town. He libelled the Rooster on a public plat-
form. His department as a matter of justice
should place it beyond his power to do any further
mischief to me by removing him to another dis-
trict.” Mr. Reid, though we believe he has a con-
siderable respect for the power of the Press, de-
clined to act on the editor’s suggestion; so affairs
in Blanktown are in considerable con fusion. We
really think, though, being clannish, that the
Minister should, if not remove him, at least lead
the schoolmaster with fetters, if only to express
his abhorrence of the teacher’s having “ libelled
the Rooster on a public platform.” Dear, oh
dear! These little men, with their little minds
their smaller quarrels, and their tinier papers)
They want a smaller world to live in; each one
a world to bimself—with only a cat and a mule
nitl
A Boarding-house Romance.
Mr. Callowboy advertised for “Board in Private
House, where he would be made one of the family.
He succeeds beyond his wildest dreams.
“Deuced pleasant this, no towels!”
Being one of the family, he is expected
to make his wants known.
His landlady took a
motherly interest in his
affairs from the very
first.
“ Dear me, Mr. Callowboy! what a noise you are making!”
“ Beg pardon, ma’am; but I was so unfortunate as to fall down-
stairs, and have got a broken head, I think!”
“Oh! is that all. I feared that you intended giving me the slip,
and were getting your box down-stairs!”
The young ladies, of course, were interested
to know what manner of man this was who
thus invaded the abode of youth and innocence.
The “general servant” made
herself at home among his mous-
tache-dye, and other toilet ar-
ticles.
Landlady (to Callowboy, who has arrived rather
late to dinner): “ Now, I’ll venture to say, Mr. CaUow-
boy, you can’t tell me what kind of fowl that is!”
Mr. C.: “ Well, no; I am not much of a naturalist-
hut it certainly is beautifully articulated!”
The girls paraded him in
public on every possible oc-
casion. In vain he tried to
undermine their constitu-
tions with confectionery.
“ And now, Mr. Callowboy,” said his landlady, one
day, “and now what are your intentions toward my
daughter; and, if so, which daughter?”
“ I have no choice, madam,” said Callowboy ; “ which
ever you like, in Heaven’s name.”
“True,” she said, “ they are equally charming. You
shall have the eldest, and may Heaven have iner , I
mean, bless you my son!”
Tableau!


We are authoritatively informed that
there is no “ tonsorial professor ” now in Gunne-
dah. The barber has shut up shop. He says what
with building up political leaders and correcting
his proofs in the day time, and turning the crank
at night, he has no leisure to lather. He com-
plained that just when he got to “We are reluc-
tantly compelled to call attention to a base and
scurrilous libel reflecting upon us, which appeared
in our tottering and grovelling contemporary —
someone used to come in, and planking down
on the chair, say, “ Come on, Bill. Sling us a rasp
and look slippy!” And for a man with a soul
above scissors—Aha!!
Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells
Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
Jfow we know why our friend Rosebery
i eared out with such a painful suddenness. It
ears that, on his arrival in a certain South
Australian city, he was invited by the civic fathers
A step right along and inspect their noble Hall,
the Mayoral chair, the mace, and all other official
fixings. All the aldermen were presented to him
turn, and everything went well until he came
to Alderman Blank, who gave Rosebery’s hand a
,p that would shame a grisly bear, as he roared:
I an it’s deeloighted Oi am t’ see ye earlahip.
Wad y*thry a little dhrop av fizz wid us, Shure ”
ere he gave his noble guest a playful poke in the
ibs w jth his thumb) “it’s meself that knows
f what it is t’ be a newly-married mahn. G’lang,
v'divil, ye!” iEven this, however, was capped by
another alderman (a retired butcher), who thrust
the mace under his “ earlshlp’s ” nose, just as he
would a leg of pork, and complacently yelled:
••There, me Lord; that’s the real stingo—none o’
yer Brummagem goods about that lot, hey ? It’s
solid gold hon top, an’ hif y* don’t believe me y’
can stick yer teeth in it an’ try.’’ Queensland
Deagon would have to take a very back seat with
that crowd of civic Chesterfields.
• » •
When it comes to a case of “raising the
wind” during drought time, there’s a station
owner down North who can take the cake from all
comers. Not long ago he thought it would be a
commendable act to get up a little amusement in
the shape of a day’s racing for his men on Boxing
Bay, and with this praiseworthy scheme in his
head and hia hat in his hand, he went round and
collected the greater part of the prize money from
his own station hands. Then he hired a tip-top
horse a few days before the meet and won e\ ery
race that was on the programme. Such a man is
simply prostituting his talents by worrying out
his life down North. He should be farther up
South, running a land-grabbing syndicate, and
persuading Ministers to run railroads through the
property purchased.
• • •
WHOOP!
“ My brother, Mr. E. E Jones, has nothing
to do with Jones’s sweep whatever.” — “Toouey ”
Jones, ax the Police Court.
’Tis quite enough, your honest word,
That everybody owns;
For who, we ask, would ever doubt
The dictum of a Jones?
A strange mistake the traps to make,
It causes one to weep;
Wc could have told you Jones had naught
To do with Jones’s sweep!
There’s nothing sick about this tale,
’Tis honest as the day;
The name of “ sweep ” would make Ned blush
And turn his head away I
So let us, while we linger here,
This firm conviction keep,
The Jones we thought the Jones is not
The Jones of Jones’s sweep 1
We know the Jones who in the box
His simple tale did state,
At school, good Scripture texts we watched
Him write down on his slate.
He carried a pink handkerchief,
And spoke in gentle tones;
And, if a lie was told, it was
Told by some other Jones!
We think we hear him crow, “ Be good,
And Satan won’t affect you;
Always tell the shining truth.
And people will respect you!’"
He sowed, and many tons of truth
This model Jones did reap;
So, now, we know that Jones is not
The Jones of Jones’s sweep.
The warm weather and the full moon
hav, , as usual, brought forth their posse of poets:
two of them honour us with specimens of their
verse. One, “J.S.J.,” is good enough to place at
our disposal a piece with a Latin title, “ Oh (sic)
Tempora et (sic) Mores,” and says: “Should you
consider this worthy of remuneration, please
address me,” Ac. The other bard, “ Is more
modest. H e merely asks for the insertion of his
lyrics, and is content to take it out in glory. He
is, however—so he writes—” suffering under a great
social injustice; I am asking you for help.” He
does not explain what the injustice is, but wo ex-
pect it has something to do with the long hours he
is kept at the sausage-machine. “ Here Is some-
thing,” says the poet, “ to swell the heaps and
heaps of waste paper” :—
“ The man
Show me who can
Observe his shadow on the wall
Grow quite genteel and very small.
And his coat hang like a funeral pall,
Without a pang.”
The “ Oh tempova et mores ” man seems to be
suffering, amongst other things, from a bad attack
of Anna Potts. He considers that lady’s pictures
worse than that of Chloe, which is now covered
with a sack in the Melbourne Art Gallery. Hear
“ Farewell, visions of the past!
Farewell, prudes and prudery I
Oh! I thought your souls would fast
Evermore from rudery: [!! 1]
But this Doctor Potts has come
With her pictures, shameless, skinless,
Pictures that she brought from ‘ hum,
And now we’ll never more be sinless.
Of course, we consider this masterly effort
“ worthy of remuneration ;” but our correspon-
dent has omitted to state how many empty sardine-
tins he wants for it.
Fellow-electors. You may bang the ocean
on a grape-vine to dry, lasso an avalanche, pin a
napkin across the mouth of a raging volcano,
skim the clouds from the sky with a teaspoon,
beat back the South Head breakers with a pitch-
fork, paste “ To Let” on the moon and stars, but
you can never delude yourselves with the idea
that anything David Buchanan, Esq., M.L.A., may
say is aught but the truth, the whole truth, &Ow
Therefore, as this honourable gentleman has just
declared that he has made a fortune at the Bar in
ten years, which yields him an income of £500 a
year, you can rest assured he is no relation what-
ever to the other David Buchanan who stated from
the balcony of Belcher's hotel, at the last Mudgee
election but one, that he was as poor as Lazarus ;
neither is he the same David Buchanan, for the
payment of whose small election expenses at that
time the hat went round, even working men
being earnestly implored to donate their hard-
earned half-crowns in behalf of the good cause
That must have been quite another Buchanan
altogether, and the man who “ dars ” to say it was
our legal millionaire stands an almighty good
chance of being “ struck to th’ ground and ter-
rodden under foot.”
That Property Tax.


BRIEF MENTION.
At Walgett, it appears that two goslings
cost twenty-five shillings. There was a goose, too—
the man that paid the price.
It cost Mrs. Langtry £20 for her baths
going over to New York recently. When Mr. L.
heard that, he cried “ Thunder I just one month’s
allowance, and this morning the slave refused a
a quart 1”
The Campbelltown Herald tells a
pathetic story of a dog that was poisoned there.
In the same paper is chronicled the sickness of a
mayor, This is a typographical error.
Bourke thermometers have onee more
shown a record of 172 degrees. Aud yet our pint-
pot poets, who are * bad on the slate,” will icoep
on yelping that this is a “ cold, cold world.”
Just before leaving England, Mr. R.
Speight received a magnificent silver service and a
purse of £20C0 from the employes of the Midland
Bailway Co., and a character from Sir William
Harcourt that any man may be proud of.
A cabman, named William Manning, was
reading In his cab, at Sandhurst, on Tuesday,
when he suddenly expired. It is not said which of
the comic journals he was reading, but we think
wo can guess. Moral : Never read a comic
journal.
Sir George Allen is now a full-pledged
Native Companion of the “distinguished”
Order of St. Michael and St, George. This
speaks volumes for the charity of our friends
at home, and raises Sir George at one bound to the
proud position of—John Davies !
The Northern Standard says that
Townsville has its telephone exchange, its gas-
works, and its brewery. By a casual skim of the
paper we could not have detected the existence
of either the telephone exchange, or the gas-
works ; but we could have sworn to the brewery.
The great advantage of being an ordinary
man is that one can get through his mortal life
without being obliged to kiss another fellow. Wo
never realised this privilege properly until we read
how King Humbert aud the Crown Prince of Ger-
many “ took off their helmets and kissed each
other four times,” on the latter’s arrival at Home.
Ugh !
A Mr. Murchison announces the existence,
on the Western coast of Norway, of a gold-reef the
lode lin. wide, 33oz. to 1500oz. to the ton. We have
lots of similar reefs here un worked. We don’t use
them that way, in fact. We utilise them exclu-
sively to float companies with. By the way it
strikes us that Murchison may be the English for
Munchausen.
Dr. Moorhouse once declared that “ there
are certain epithets which, when utterly baseless
an Englishman can only reply to in a certain wav ’’
Morpeth Robert says that’s the very reason he put
Dawvld s peeper In mourning, and Dawvid says if
it hadn t been for the doctor’s evil suggestion he
would never have “sterruek Bob ta t’ groond,
and tor-rod him undar foot.”
J udging from the recent growls in Rock-
hampton papers, the state of the “Bluch” up
there is rather mixed. One half of the lately-
appointed justices of the peace are said to know
?.? “91® about law than a pademelon does about
the dilerential calculus, whilst bitter complaints
are also made that the other half knows a con-
demned sight too much to suit the bulk of the
population.
ft has been telegraphed from Balranald
that by clause 58 of the Municipalities Act, Alder-
man Bye is to be deprived of his seat. What the
mischief put such a clause as that in the Act ?
Now, if it was his tongue that he was to be de-
prived pi, one wouldn’t wonder; hut how is the
work of civilisation to be carried on at Balranald
if one of its most distinguished aldermen is to be
made go about without bis seat ?
Mr. Bent stripped to bis shirt sleeves and
worked hard nailing calico linings at the Calcutta
Exhibition. Why has that Exhibition fallen so
llat. I homas in his shirt sleeves, a hammer
in his right hand, his mouth full of tacks, and
several yards of calico on bis back, was surely
worth going to Calcutta to see. And besides
homas, there was an exhibit of leather, tanned
bfiion 0 failc i y ‘ Xt ' S hard t0 tbink how the E *hi-
Kangaroo hunting is the fashionable dissi-
pation up Coombing Park way. Whenever it
appears, giant cement ” follows. Let us explain:
Pour some “ cement ” on the moke’s back and clap
the saddle on. Then pour some on the latter and
take your seat Should you then come off, you
will at least have the satisfaction of knowing that
■nest of your steed’s spine has come away, too.
And this is why “ giant cement ” rises as kangaroo
hunting becomes common. See ?
Buildings have their ups and downs, their
success and adversity, just like individuals. In
Sandhurst, Lorldan’s flour mill has for years been
going from bad to worse till it has at last become a
Salvation Army Barracks. But, after all, its pre-
sent use is not so dissimilar to its former. Both
then and now its business is to separate the chaff
from the wheat. The only difference is that it
formerly stuck to the wheat, whereas now it has
to content itself with collaring the chaff.
Barristers ought really to be guarded in
their language. A Melbourne paper has been
furnishing some particularly spicy details on the
Aspasia ” question, telling us how the women
bye, and sundry other little matters of consider-
able public interest—especially to young people of
the softer sex; and yet an unpoetlcal barrister has
been stigmatising these articles as “ beastly de-
tods, which are a worse social evil than the Social
Evil. He ought to read our own Evun Nooze.
They said a bit ago in Queensland that
there was an alligator at Acacia Yale dying of
starvation. But when they missed the Small
Debts Court bailiff they altered their opinion, and
an army of citizens, led by Professor Armand, set
out to hunt him. But no trace was found of the
cayman; and after twelve hours floundering
about in the mud the cortige mournfully returned,
bearing with them the bailiff’s right boot and the
thigh and hat of a citizen who was considered to
have absconded.
An item full of dark significance appears
in a Melbourne evening paper. “ Our own corre-
spondent” telegraphs (humph I) from Hamilton that
two new doctors have settled in the town, ob-
serving that—now comes the dark significance—
this makes five medical men in Hamilton; still,
we have no extra large amount of sickness.”
There is a world of meaning in that word “sti/1,”
expressive of grave doubts on the part
as to such a satisfactory state n f
health prevailing for long, in the town, under such
perilous conditions. ucn
Like the late Tommy Moore, Garrannv
dearly loves a lord, and nothing that concerns H
lord—from his speech at a University opening
the colour of his socks—is a matter of indifference
to her. This idolatry, coupled with that mortal
desire for originality which is one of the old lady's
chief characteristics, has lately caused her to
burst on the world with the following startling
announcement: “Lord Rosebery is leaving foot*
prints on our shores.” That’s so. And, when the
weather s showery, those prints lemind us of I
place put West called the Chain of Ponds during
the rainy season. We measured one of the track*
and nd lt; was J U8t fourteen inches from bank’
lO DaQKi
VVe learn that at Harry Hill’s, in New
York, a resort of pugilists, thieves, and bullies
amongst those present was Lord Mandeville, who
was walking arm and arm with Edward 8
Stokes, the murderer of Jim Fiske. Stokea oalv
got four years for the crime, and he now is on
friendly terms with lord Manderllle. Well. Wfl
believe the world has got so mean that there aw!
many men who would cheerfully commit a mur-
der and do four years if they could be assured
they cam© out of “walking arm and arm
l®rd Mandeville.” Why, wo know a certain
J -P*7‘Lb° do we. An excellent man, arid a law-
abiding- citizen; famous throughout the world
for the smallness of his hands. Herti I— Ed. B.]
Judge M‘Farland, of Melbourne, declares
that the conviction of the gentle, kind-hearted,
philanthropical Nathan is “ bad and illegal ” To
his mind the only offence disclosed in th® “ long
rigmarole of the conviction is that of aiding and
abetting a person in being idle and disorderly,
which cannot be sustained, because if it held good
everyone who gave a beggar a shilling would be
guilty of an offence. And uow the dear old Nathan
goes hopping round all day like a lodging-house
nea on a hot plate, and screams: “ Dot vas a noble
Shudge I an eggserlendt young man 1 Shelpmegor.
a Daniel vas coom t’ shudgmendtsl Minnie, you
yants t loan soom sphlendid pedsteads? I doos
em sheap as never now. An eggserlendt young
man—py dam, he is I” J *
Abouf Valentines.


Sale op Bronte Land.—That beautiful
ocean suburban land, known as Bronte, is for sale
next Monday at Messrs. Richardson and Wrench’s
auction rooms, Pitt-street. The land is beautifully
situated for a seaside village, and a splendid re-
serve has been secured on the beach. The
Waverley tram every day carries hundreds of
visitors and picnickers to the locality. An engrav-
ing of the plan of subdivision appears in this
issue.*
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
XX
XX T3ESIDENTS IN SYDNEY AND
XX X%J VISITORS
XX to
XX OUR FAIR METROPOLIS
XX are INVITED THIS SATURDAY
XX to
X(*j VIEW OUR FIRST DISPLAY
XX of
XX AUTUMN REQUIREMENTS FOR 1884.
Something Vew New
Something Choice
Something Vefy Pleasing
Something Very Reasonable
Something Very Fashionable
Something Very Unexceptionable
Something Very Varied
Something Very Seasonable
Something Very Suitable.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
M
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Don’t Forget now to Step Round
into this busy street TO-DAY,
and Look for Yourselves
in
OUR LARGE DISPLAY WINDOWS.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211,
PITT-STHBET.
Sydney.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
s
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
g
XX
g
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X
X
XX
XX
I]
Thousands upon thousands xx
OF PEOPLE, XX
living far away in the XX
Interior of New South Wales, XX
can have XX
GOOD FASHIONABLE THINGS XX
sent to them XX
FROM HORDERN’S, XX
simply by ordering them. XX
We pack and send dozens of parcels XX
every day anywhere. XX
XX
Address us thus: XX
HORDERN BROTHERS, XX
174,176,209, 211, Pitt-street, XX
Sydney. XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx'
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx'
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
SATEENS at SIXPENCE a yard XX
XX
Sateens at Sixpence halfpenny per yard XX
Sateens at Seven pence per yard XX
Sateens at Seven pence halfpenny per XX
yard yl
Sateens at Eight pence per yard XX
Sateens at Eight pence halfpenny per XX
yard XX
Sateens at Nine ponce per yard. XX
All at HORDERN’S in PUT-STREET. XX
SATEENS at fabulously Low PRICES
Sateens at absurdly cheap rates
Sateens at prices to please 500,000 people
Sateens at prices to please YOU, dear
reader.
Sateens in 1200 styles.
Sateens in every Grade of Qualit y.
More Sateens than can be shown in our
Windows.
SO COME IN AND LOOK AT THEM.
HORDERN BROTHERS, 211, Pitt-street,
Sydney,
IF COUNTRY READERS OF THIS
PAPER want
ANY NICE LITTLE PACKETS
of
OUR PATTERNS
sent to them, they have only to send us
THEIR ADDRESSES.
The prices will bo marked on each
pattern.
Address—
HORDERN RHOTHERS, 311, Pitt-
street.
or simply
HORDERN’S in PITT-STREET.
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
1
R.BURGIS.
TAILOR..
VISIT R. BURGHS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
FOR
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIPJ1
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of the Colony.
W 1
■JLCOX
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £410
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Com shelieri
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walnut
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
HEBBLE WHITE ft GO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gained against the
First Prizes and Exhibition.
M R . F . WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney*
Hours, 9 till 5.
chrtiBbeiit
TOBACCO WAREHOUSE
pal
&
sf
&
A
so
?s
)&
s:
ss
£<*)
&
1
5^
3*
Sk
V
A
A
vy-i
HAYMARKET. SYDNEY.
Anne Dunn, aged 39, married, and close
upon nine feet in height, died in London in De-
cember. At the inquest, it came out that she was
subject to fits. We should like to know what her
husband was subject to.
Blackheath Mountain Land. —An en-
graving of the subdivision of Blackheath (moun-
tain land) appears in another page of this issue.
The locality Avas described in a recent issue of
The Bulletin. Messrs. Boyd and King, Pitt-
street, are the agents.*
That Husband of Mine is three times the man
he was before ho began using “Wells’ Health
llenewer.” Druggists. Moses. Moss & Oo.. Sydney
General Agents.
Which is the best perfume? There are
some “ Open Questions ” Avith regard to the toilet,
but this is not one of them. The ladies have
settled it—wisely and finally. As there are coun-
terfeits, always ask for the true Florida Water
pyQP&red by Lanman and Kemp, New Yora.
GREAT HOTEL PROPERTY COMPANY,
purchase of £50{K) worth of Licensed Hotels,
Goodwills, &c„ in the city and suburbs of Sydney.
To be disposed of on the Art Union principle.
5000 subscribers at £1 each. First Prize, £1800 ;
second, £800 ; third, £600 : fourth, t 500 ; fifth,
£350 ; sixth and seventh, £335 each ; and eighth,
£300. List, now fast filling. Apply at once for
Shares, enclosing a Post Office Order or Cheque
Avith exchange added, and stamned addressed
envelope for reply. —Business Agency Company,
16 Minerva Chambers, Pitt-street, Sydney.-W.
Roberts, Secretary. Or, at Temporary Office,
134 Clarence-street, Sydney.
The Orange Liberal says the Western
a dvocate has cribbed its leader, “ Farmer’s
Hanks ” almost bolus bolus from the Queens-
r Ander, and further says: “ To the eternal shame
nf our contemporary it is a deliberate literary
theft. We make bold to state that a more dis-
?raceful, dishonourable, and contemptible utili-
sation of the ideas of a brother pressman cannot
he recorded in the annals of journalism.” This is
hosh We merely consider the appropriation of
the article as a tacit admission by the Advocate
man that he couldn’t grasp the question. We
don’t know whether the Liberal man will be able
to grasp the question or not, either; but we will
back him for all we owe to promptly grasp a
bushel of apples or a pickle-jar of honey.
Even the Deity himself cannot please
everyone. One night last week “the rain poured
down from one black cloud” over the city of
Adelaide, and, while all the “sky-pilots” were
thanking the Looard for the favours which they
complacently believed was the result of their
snuffling, sing-song prayers, a temperance lecturer
opened up his show by saying that “ although he
appeared before his audience in God’s name, still
the unsatisfactory state of tjie weather prevented
him from concentrating his ideas, and from going
into the scientific part of the subject.” Truly, the
Lord is merciful. If a common man, clad in the
brief authority of even a night policeman, was
insulted like that, he’d have grabbed that water-
bottle orator by the heels and wiped the “liure”
with his snowball brainpan.
The dead body of a man was found the
other day at Rooty Hill. On searching it, a Young
Men’s Christian Association pamphlet and a copy
of the Nooze were found in the pocket of the
coat, a bull-dog revolver was alongside, and a six-
quart billy that had contained tanglefoot. This
was the most determined case of suicide we’ve
hoard of for a long time. The poor wretch
evidently meant lethal “biz” when he laid in such a
stock of destructive implements as the above
enumerated articles. The stages of his self hu-
molation were without doubt as follows (1) He
destroyed his mental equilibrium by a perusal of
the two first weapons of offence; (2) he braced
his courage to the sticking-point with tenglefoot;
and, (3) he gave himself the coup-de-grace with
the bull-dog. Alfred should at least hymn his
memory in elegiac verse.
A young lady aspirant for literary fame
sends us half a dozen sheets of foolscap labelled
“ Lily and George on Rutty Roads.” It is a thrill-
ing paper. Lily and George are returning from a
ball early one morning, when Lily gets her foot in
a rut. She is put into a cart and taken home. The
driver is rewarded by George with a penny, and
George gets a punch on the nose. And that’s all.
The writer, however, enhances the interest of this
enthralling narrative by the gems of descriptive
fancy with which her copy is studded. This is the
way she tells us that it is getting on milk-cart time:
“ Cynthia, looking pale and wan with her night’s
vigil, wearily sinks to rest behind the western hills,
whilst in the rosy east ‘Phoebus ’gins arise,’ flood-
ing all Nature in a soft crimson light and waken-
ing her songsters with glad strains of welcome to
the sun.” Pretty, i« it not? We’d print any
amount of this style of thing at 10s. 6d. an inch
with fifteen per cent, added for a jobbing type-
border.
Another abduction; and from another
“twice-laid” factory 1 Here is, now, Mr. Loo.
Isthor (whose name would get him six months in
some countries) carrying off Miss Grace Clarke,
the Hebe who used to watch the action of his
molars, where he daily came to devastate the
larder at dinner-time; the place being a sixpenny
“slap-bang” (“thank you, Guppy, I don’t mind if
I do take summer cabbage ”) near the markets.
Miss Grace (who is “ under the age of 16 ”) missed
her train, <i ce Que Von dit, and requested the pri-
soner to find her lodgings. He did so, and accord-
ing to the letter of the law, abducted her. After
this, we think that it wouldn’t be a bad line if
every young girl were obliged to wear a miniature
calendar in her locket, denoting her age daily.
This would render the position of Lotharios of all
grades far more comfortable. We wonder, any-
how, why it is that restaurant girls are so liable to
be abducted. Something in the hash, we suppose.
Pas Prop dezele is of universal application,
and should be taken to hexrt by the police as well
as others. But it isn’t—at least in Sydney. There
was a moonlight excursion to Clontarf on Satur-
day by the “United Preethought Association,”
There was a band in attendance, and cricket, lawn
tennis, quoits, dancing, &c. &e., were promised,
Ttyere was a considerable diversity of opinion as
Iq -\yhat qoqld be fairly Included in the et ceteras,
until a iso'rt of tacit agreement was come to at last
to aRow to this relaxation a wide latitude of inter-
pretation. In the Herald advertisement of the
affair, the significant N.B. occurredPolice
officers will be on the ground to give special at-
tention to interlopers and unruly persons.” And
now—this is entirely hearsay, and may be quite
untrustworthy — comes the joke. A young
“bobby” from Cork, who had lately joined the
“ foorce ” and was on fire with zeal in the cause of
peace (he’d been a “Moonlighter” at home),had
his own views of “interlopers and unruly persons,”
so he tried to stop the procession and take it
prisoner. His subsequent excuse was that “ bar-
yin’ the numbers themselves dlvil an intherloper
w&s on jthe ground.”
A certain man went up from to
Walgett, and fell among barbers and clerks of
petty sessions, and divers other shlcksters, who
Shaved him, and fined him, leaving him half dead
tor fear jthe pe?t thing they would do would be to
split him open, line his internals with sheets of
bark, and then send him home naked on a rough-
trotting, bare-backed horse. It appears that one
M'Intosh, of Narrabri, having- occasion to visit
Walgett, called on the local barber—a party bear-
ing the appropriate name of Cheik—and, having
had a quiet shave, was charged Is. for the luxury.
This got Mac.’s mad up at once, and going for the
knight of the lather, he told him firmly, but re-
spectfully, that he considered it a daylight rob-
bery. Right here the conversation ended. Next
day, however, the clean-faced man received an
Invitation to call on the Walgett C.P.S., who
occasionally acts as police magistrate. And
after delivering an exhaustive address on the
misery and desolation caused by the use of
calculated to Incjte a breach of the
tips amateur Soiqn fined the Narrabri
desperado 10s., £1 1«, professional costs, and 4s. lOd.
costs of court. Total, £1 15s. lOd , which, alto-
gether, with the Is. already paid, makes MTntosh’s
shave one of the most expensive rasps we have
ever heard of.
STORY OF A VALENTINE.
IN FIVE PORTIONS.
I.
“It certainly will be policy to send Maria a
Valentine,” reflected Jones, as he strolled down to
the office; “it’s a precious waste of money, of
course, but women think a lot of these sort of
of things, and I haven’t forgotten how deuced dis-
agreeable she m ide herself last year. It wouldn’t
be a bit of use telling her that it must have got
lost in the post, again, either,—Maria’s of such a
suspicious nature.” And a pretty general remark
among Jones’s clerks, on the morning of February
14th, was to the effect that “ the old ’un was rather
worse than usual, and they supposed he was up
late at some bloomin’ ball.”
ii.
“By Jove, never felt more gone on a little
woman in my life. What eyes, and what a delicious
little ankle too, by Jove I Splendid institution,
this Valentine business—gives a fellow a chance of
expressing his admiration, by Jove I And then
she mentioned that old Jones was too mean to send
her one last year, so I shall score well. She knows
what an admirer I am, by Jove, of her pretty
foot, I really think I’ll chance some silk—by Jove,
I will.” Thus mused Ferdinand Fitzdashor, as he
lazily sipped his chocolate on the morning after
the masquerade at the De Brownes’.
in.
“ Sixes, in black, and I s’pose you’d better make
a dozen pairs of it,” (grumbled Jones to the fasci-
nating young party]at the French glove-shop. “ A
nice fancy box to send them in, of course ?”—this
with a killing, round-the-corncr expression, which
worked wickedness with even such a tough old
customer as J. “ Oh, I may as well be hung for a
sheep as a lamb, and, if you’ll tie it up neatly in
paper, my dear, I’ll address it, and wash my hands
of the tomfoolery.” “ But I must address it, and
you’ll have to pretend you know nothing at all
about it, you know: that’s the proper thing with
Valentines.” “Is it?” remarked Jones; and,
though inwardly deciding that he would not so
attempt to Impose upon his Maria, he left a card,
and, with a parting squeeze of the hand, desired
the fascinating one to “be sure and send it off
early, my dear.”
IV.
“ Well, I would like to know, for certain, which
is Ferdinand’s; but the gloves, of course, as if ”
and pretty Mrs. Jones blushed at the r otlon of
anyone but her lord sending “the others." “I
wonder where on earth old skin-flint found his
burst of generosity, though ? Why, they’re per-
fect beauties—the embroidery across the Instep is
worth a small fortune. I shall have to be duly
gracious at dinner to-night, I suppose. I do hope
Ferdinand will be at the Smythes’; I’m dying to
thank him for the gloves, naughty boy.”
v.
The warmest of welcomes awaited Jones on his
arrival home that evening—such an avalanche of
kisses, in fact, that he hardly begrudged his in-
vestment. “ Vou dear, silly, old gem, to give me
such a sweet surprise, and who did you get to
address the packet pray, you artful dear 7” “ One
of my boys at the office,” said Jones hastily ;
“well, do you like ’em?” “What a que?tion !
Why, I’m frantic over them, I’ve put a pair on
to show you how splendidly they go with my new
shoes.” And before the old fellow had time to
express his astonishment at the last statement, the
prettiest little ankleever displayed by thedaiutiest
of low shoes was advanced for his inspection.
“ What the D I”
(To be continued next year.)
THE 14TH.
THE OLD MAID'S COMMENT.
Valentine’s Day 1 Ah, me I the postman’s knocks
Brought hopes and tears
In other years.
And glad galvanic shocks
Thrilled through my frame
As I read my name
On the lid of some fancy-box.
Valentine’s Day I Ves, many a dainty thing,
With pretty rhymes,
In the olden times
The postman used to bring I
Such times don’t last—
The postman’s passed
With ne’er a knock or ring.
Valentine’s Day! My hair is as the snow:
Yet many a score,
In my pscrjtolre,
Of verses from fickle beaux
Lie hid—each a token
Of promise broken;
Ah 1 men do deceive us so.
On Monday night a very fashionable
affair took place in the Academy of Music, it
was a sort of tribute to the new leader of
the Opposition, Mr. Wisdom, M.P.K. All
the gods of Sydney were in the gallery, while
gentlemen well known in connection with the’bus
business, the ginger-beer industry, and the
butchering profession, assembled in a galaxy of
talent down below. An intercolonial contest was
the chief attraction, but as a preliminary whet,
two artistic gentlemen appeared and illustrated
the noble art. A gentleman then sang a song with
fine effect, and boot-heel accompaniment by the
audience. Then the stars appeared. John King,
of Melbourne, y. George Po\yell, of Sydney.
Having shaken hands John and George proceeded
steadily to work—John doing the most, however
—to shower on one another T ‘ marks ” of esteem.
They continued this with a good deal of vigour
and zeal till about half-past twelve, when
the gentlemen referee declared a draw. Both the
gentleman contestants were a good deal fagged,
and would probably have found it quite impossi-
ble, however willing, to follow Trollope’s advice,
“ Don’t blow.” They “ blowed ” a good deal, and
the perspiration exuded freely, notwithstanding
the attentive ministrations of kind friends with
towels and soda-water bottles. The monotony of
the evening was enlivened by a few impromptu
Parliamentary demonstrations in the gallery, be-
tween gentlemen who held varying opinions on
the merits of the exhibition; but'otherwise the
whole affair passed off most successfully, and gave
pleasure to all
A VALENTINE
AFTER THE USUAL PATTERN,
Oh! much deeper to me than the dancing deep sea
To the heart of the turbulent Tar,
Or his gold’s gladsome chink to the miser, I think
You are, pretty maiden, you are;
Like the pilgrims who roam far away from their
home
To kneel at St. Somebody’s shrine,
So, with heart warm and true, will I kneel, dear,
to you—
If you’ll be but my own Valentine.
Gay and guiltless of guile, plays your sweet, sunny
Round a mouth like young Cupid’s cross-bow
(I don’t mean, of course, that your own heau is
cross—
I’m verv good-tempered, you know).
Your teeth are as white as a negro’s, and quite
Too temptingly pearly will shine,
If your ruby lips part, to make happy my heart
With these words, “ You’re my own Valentine.”
Like the scent of the rose, when the soft zephyr
blows,
Was the breath of thy lingering kiss;
Nor jy taste could you cloy w.,1, 6 „o S emulate
(Somewhat strong and Swlnburnlan, this)
Though you haven’t seen fit, up to now, 1 admit
To let those lips linger on mine,
Yet I hopefully pray, dear, that after to-day
You will—as my own Valentine.
You’ve a blue beaming eye, like the Midsummer
sky
When its glory’s undimmed by a cloud—
I quite blusn as I write such a simile trite
C'lis ancient, it must be allowed);
Bui no figures of speech would be able to reach
To the height of a theme so divine—
Then accept, dear, as read, all I ought to have said
Of the charms of my own Valentine.


the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken Into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“Tender for Supplies, Callan Park.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost! of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will bo
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
December 15,1883.
CONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
OSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, NEWCASTLE.
V:
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
31st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months, from 1st
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the duo performance of the Contract, in the
event of the Tender being accepted; and under-
taking, in that event, that they will execute and
deliver, within fourteen days from the usual noti-
fication of the acceptance, a bond of Her Majesty
for securing such performance, otherwise the
Tender will not be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the contract anew or
to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tender
for Supplies, Newcastle.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary duty stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£<ONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
THE QUARANTINE ESTABLISHMENT,
LITTLE BAY.
Notice is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 31st February next, for furnishing the sup-
plies undermentioned, in such quantities as may
be required during twelve calendar months from
the 1st April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information,Imay be obtained on
application at the Treasury.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the Tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the Tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the ssid term of fourteen days from date of
notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the Contract anew or
to accept another Tender.
should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tender for Supplies, Little Bay.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—The Accepted Tender will be notified in
the Government Gazette, and such notice will
be considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£jONTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
QUARANTINE STATION, NORTH HEAD.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 31st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months from the
1st April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to bo responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise the contract
anew or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for inance and Trade, and endorsed “ Ten-
ders for Supplies, North Head.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—The accepted tender will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see G overnment Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£jONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
COUNTRY DISTRICTS.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 31st February next, for furnishing, on account
of the Public Service, the supplies undermen-
tioned, in such quantities as may be required
during twelve calendar months, from the 1st
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or at the establish-
ments for which the supplies are required.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking, in that event, that they will severally
execute and deliver, within fourteen days from
the usual notitlcation of acceptance, a bond to
Her Majesty for securing such performance, other-
wise the tender will not be taken into considera-
tion.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Bonds will only be required where the annual
supply Is estimated at £150 or over.
Separate tenders will be required for the several
services specified.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Ten-
der for Provisions, &c.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must b©
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
Gaols at—
Albury
Armldale
Bathurst
Berrima
SERIES 1.
Goulburn
Maitland
Mudgee
SERIES 3.
Gaols at—
Bega
Bingera
Braidwood
Bourko
Campbelltown
Casino
Cooma
Coonabarabran
Coonamble
Deniliquin
Dubbo
Forbes
Glen Innes
Grafton
Grenfell
Gundagal
Gunnedah
Hay
Inverell
Murrurundl
Musweilbroofc
Narrabrl
Orange
Port Macquarie
Parramatta
Tamworth
Young
Queaubeyan
Singleton
Tenterfleld
Wagga Wagga
Walgett
Wanalda
Wellington
Wentworth
Wllcannla
Windsor
Wollongong
Yass.
For particulars of rations, &c., and conditions
of contract, see Government Gazette,
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, PARRAMATTA.
Notice Is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon on THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing, on account
of the Public Service, the supplies under-men-
tioned, in such quantities as may be required
during eight calendar months from the 1st April,
1884, upon the conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering, and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be respon-
sible for the due performance of the contract, In
the event of the Tender being accepted; and
undertaking in that event that they will severally
call at the Treasury and execute and deliver,
within fourteen days from the usual notification
of acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the Tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the Bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from notifi-
cation of acceptance, the Government reserves
the right to advertise the contract anew, or to
accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“Tender for Supplies, Parramatta.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£jONTRACT8 FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
TEMPORARY HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE,
COOMA.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office, until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the Supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may bo
required during twelve calendar months from the
1st Aprl, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms ©f tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every Tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the Tender beb g accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will execute and
deliver within fourteen days from the usual
notification of acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty
for securing such performance, otherwise the
tender will not be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise the contract
anew or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under
Secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“ Tender for Supplies, Cooma.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender,
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamp must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply, and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
H.M.C.S. WOLVERENE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
recesved at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st of February next, for furnishing the
supplies undermentioned, in such quantities as
may be required during twelve calendar months,
from the 1st April, 1884, upon the conditions here-
inafter specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at this Office.
At the foot of every tender there must bo a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing fo be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being 1 accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
Tenders for Supplies, H.M.C.S. Wolverene.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Gov-
ernment will not necessarily accept the lowest or
any tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—The accepted tender will be notified in
the Government Gazette, and such notice will
be considered as an Intimation to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£10NTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
PROTESTANT AND ROMAN CATHOLIC
ORPHAN SCHOOLS, PARRAMATTA.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 31st February next, for furnishing on account
of the Public Service, the supplies undermen-
tioned, in such quantities as may be required
during twelve calendar months from the 1st
April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter speci-
fied.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Orphan
Schools.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver within
fourteen days from the usual notification of
acceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing
such performance, otherwise the tender will not
be taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed,
“Tenders for Supplies, Orphan Schools.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Gov-
ernment will not necessarily accept the lowest or
any tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
Contracts for supplies for the
GOVERNMENT ASYLUM AT SYDNEY
(HYDE PARK ASYLUM).
TENDERS will be received at this Office, until
13 o’clock on THURSDAY, the 31st February next,
for Furnishing the Supplies undermentioned, in
such quantities as may be required during twelve
eallendar months from the 1st April, 1884, upon
the conditions hereinafter specified,
Printed forms of tender may be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the Office of the Manager of the
Government Asylums, where further particulars
and information may be obtained.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted; and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accep-
tance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise such tender will not be
taken into consideration,
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from the
date of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender
for Supplies, Government Asylum, Hyde Park,”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to the unsuccess-
ful Tenderers that their Tenders have been de-
clined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
sec Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury of New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
CONTRACTS FOR SUPPLIES FOR TH
GOVERNMENT ASYLUMS AT GEORG
AND MACQUARIE STREETS, PARRi
TENDERS will be received at this Office unt
noon of THURSDAY, the 31st February next, ft
Furnishing the Supplies undermentioned, in sue
quantities as may be required during twelv
calendar months, from the 1st April, 1884. upo
the conditions hereinafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender may be obtained at tb
Treasury, or at the Office of the Manager of G(
vernment Asylums, where further particulars an
information may be obtained.
At the foot of every Tender there must be
memorandum, signed by the party Tendering an
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsibl
for the due performance of the contract in tb
event of the Tender being accepted; and undei
taking, in that event, that they will severally ca
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, withi
fourteen days from the usual notification of a«
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing sue
performance (otherwise such Tender will not b
taken into consideration).
Should the bond not be executed and delivere
within the said term of fourteen days from dat
of netifleation of acceptance, the Governmer
reserves the right to advertise the contract anei
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tende
for Supplies, Government Asylums, Parramatta.
It is to be distinctly understood that the Goverr
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or an
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must b
borne by the Contractor.
N,B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in th
Government Gazette, and such notice will b
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contrac
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£10NTHACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT,
DARLINGHURST GAOL,
THE NAUTICAL SCHOOL-SHIP VERNON.
»HE RECEPTION HOUSE FOR THE INSANE,
Darlinghurst,
THE SHAFTESBURY REFORMATORY,
THE INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL FOR GIRLS,
BILOELA;
And all Government Establishments not otherwise
provided for.
TENDERS will be received for this section,
separately or together.
Notice is hereby given that Tenders will be
received at this Office, until noon of Thursday,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be
required during twelve calendar months from
the 1st April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at this Office, or at the Office of the
Comptroller-General of Prisons.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by tho party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for tho performance of the contract, in the event
of the tender being accepted; and undertaking in
that event that they will severally call at the
Treasury and execute and deliver, within four-
teen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from
date of notification of acceptance, the Govern-
ment reserves the right to advertise tho contract
anew, or to accept another Tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“ Tender for Supplies, Metropolitan District.”
It is to bo distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice shall be
considered as an Intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
£10NTRACT FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
SUPPLIES FOR THE PERMANENT MILITARY
FORCE,
Sydney and Newcastle.
TENDERS will be received at this Office, until
Qoon of Thursday, the 21st February next, for
furnishing on account of tho Public Service the
supplies undermentioned, in such quantities as
may be required during twelve calender months
from the 1st April, 1884, upon the conditions here-
inafter specified.
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, or the Brigade Office.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to bo responsible
for tho due performance of the contract in the
event of tho 'tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of accept-
ance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing sueh
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not |be executed and delivered
within th® said term of fourteen days from date of
notification of acceptance, the Government re-
serves the right to advertise the contract anew,
or to accept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tender for Provisions for Military Force.”
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender,
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the Contractor.
N.B.—-The accepted Tender will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
Tenderers that their Tenders have been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract,
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1833.
CONTRACTS FOB THE PUBLIC SERVICE-
HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE, GLADSVILLE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will bo
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
qulrled, during twelve calendar months, from the
1st April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties agreeing to be responsible
foJ the due performance of the contract in the
event of the Tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the Tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond net be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, tho Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another Tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary f( r Finance and Trade, and endorsed
“Tenders for Supplies, Gladesville."
It is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
Tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
N.B.—Accepted Tenders will be notified in the
Goaernment Gazette, and sueh notices will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders haae been declined.
For articles of supply and conditions of contract
see Government Gazette.
GEORGE B. DIBBS,
The Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1883.
/CONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE,
IIOSPITALS FOR THE INSANE, CALLAN
PARK.
NOTICE is hereby given that Tenders will be
received at this Office until noon on THURSDAY,
the 21st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calendar months from the
1st April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified.
Printed forms off tender, asywell as any further
particulars and Information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury or at the Hospital.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum,,* signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call at


Durable American Buggies, Carriages, Phaetons, Platform Spring
Waggons, Harness, etc.
The best Trotting and Pleasure Carts , Superior Spnng Mattrasses, etc.
D. CONRAD,
General American Importer, 72 York-street, Sydney,
ONE DOOR FROM MARKET STREET.
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
IiTotxt Open.
LONDON AND PARIS IN SYDNEY.
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
TFT. TFT. CiiTEE’S,
IMPORTER & GENERAL DRAPER,
193 and 195 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT,
Under the management o« the ool.taJMHr,
with the Gold Legion ot Honor, PraM,ted_Kid Glove Fitter totoe ot „ 1C B on March*,
the steamer & nnEt manSSrS 1 W.' WCATEB’S, 103 and 195 P.tt-street.
now Kid Glove fitted
m „y pair of Kid Gloves sold warranted a porfectflt. flnd lt to their
the PAKIS Kb GLOVE DEPARTMENT.
ttuvauuitfto IT4J MmiomiofniVD flT.Vlft
Kid Gloves, Mousquetairo style
Kid Gloves, Gauntlet style
Kid Gloves, Sarah Bernhardt style
Silk and Lisle Thread Gloves, Lace Mitt*
Kid Gloves fitted to perfection
Kid Gloves fitted in two minutes at the counter
Kid Gloves warranted a perfect fit
Kid Gloves from 3 to 30 buttons
Kid Gloves of all descriptionsm the latest style , J ,, . . . .. . , t*
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STRBET, SYDNEY.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and OASTLEBEAGH STREETS.
R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
tar- PRIVATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
Qiticura
vl'f
vW
'^ v />
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticuba and Cuticuba Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enaemia, Pyaemia, Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticuba Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story: I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors: have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticuba Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
H. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the Now Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Gbeat Skin Cube (a Medicina,
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh 1
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticuba, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Bashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticuba, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 35 cents; Cuticuba Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $1.00 per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co,, Boston,
U.S.A.
Probable No. ol
Horses to be
Foraged.
Probable No. of
Horses to be
Foraged.
B
Department of Mines,
Stock Branch,
Sydney, 19th December, 1883.
btubns under the rabbit nuisance.
1 DISEASES IN SHEEP, AND PASTURES
AND STOCK PROTECTION ACTS.
owners of Sheep, Large Stock and Land liable to
contribution and assessment under the Rabbit
wSsauce and Diseases in Sheep Acts are reminded
Jhat their returns must be made to the Clerks of
Petty Sessions; and those under the Pastures and
stock Protection Acts to the respective Inspectors
of Stock, on or before the 1st January next, 1884.
01 ALEX. BRUCE, A ,
Chief Inspector of Stock.
The Treasury, New South Wales,
C
jury, New South w ai
15th D§cember, 1883.
0NTRACT8 FOR SUPPLIES FOR THE GO-
VERNMENT ASYLUM AT LIVERPOOL.
TENDERS will be received at this Office until 12
o’clock on THURSDAY, the 31st February next,
for furnishing the supplies undermentioned, in
euch quantities as may be required during twelve
calender months, from the 1st April, 1884, upon the
conditions hereinafter specified.^
Printed forms of Tendermay be obtained at the
Treasury, or at the office of the Manager of the
Government Asylums, where further particulars
and information may be obtained.
At the root of every tender there must bo a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will severally call
at the Treasury, and execute and deliver, within
fourteen days from the usual notification ot ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance (otherwise such tender will not be
taken into consideration). . . ,, ,
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of fourteen days from date
of notification of acceptance, the Government
reserves the right to advertise the contract anew
or to accept another tender.
Tenders to be addressed to the Under-Secretary
for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “ Tender for
Supplies, Government Asylum, Liverpool.*
It is to be distinctly understood that the G overn-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor. .
O.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
For particulars of supply and conditions of con-
tract, see Government Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
15th December, 1883.
CONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
FORAGE FOR PUBLIC DEPARTMENTS-ME-
TROPOLITAN AND PARRAMATTA
DISTRICTS.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 31st February next, tor furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calender months from the
1st April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified. , „ .
Printed forms of tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury.
At the foot of every tender there must be a
memorandum, signed by the party tendering and
two approved sureties, agreeing to be responsible
for the due performance of the contract, in the
event of the tender being accepted, and under-
taking in that event that they will call at the
Treasury and severally execute and deliver, with-
in fourteen days from the usual notification of ac-
ceptance, a bond to Her Majesty for securing such
performance, otherwise the tender will not be
taken into consideration.
Should the bond not be executed and delivered
within the said term of 14 davs from date of noti-
fication of acceptance, the Government reserves
the right to advertise the contract anew or to ac-
cept another tender.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tender
for Forage.”
The tenders for each district will be accepted or
rejected separately. _ ,
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamps must be
borne by the contractor.
The forage to be delivered in bulk, as ordered ;
the net weight only, after deducting the tare, to
be charged.
N.B. —Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
PARTICULARS.
Maize, per bushel of 56 lb.
Or Oats, ditto 40 lb.
Bran, ditto 30 lb.
Hay, Oaten, at per ton of 2340 lb.
Ditto, Lucerne, ditto 3340 lb.
Straw, ditto 3340 lb.
AS REQUIRED.
Forage.
METROPOLITAN DISTRICT.
All Government Establishments and Services not
otherwise provided for by contract.
PARRAMATTA DISTRICT.
All Government Establishments and Services not
otherwise provided for by contract.
For conditions of contract, see Government
Gazette.
GEORGE R. DIBBS.
C
The Treasury, New South Wales,
15th December, 1883.
ONTRACTS FOR THE PUBLIC SERVICE.
FORAGE FOR THE POLICE.
NOTICE is hereby given that TENDERS will be
received at this Office until noon of THURSDAY,
the 31st February next, for furnishing the supplies
undermentioned, in such quantities as may be re-
quired during twelve calender months from the
1st April, 1884, upon the conditions hereinafter
specified. ,, ,
Printed forms of Tender, as well as any further
particulars and information, may be obtained on
application at the Treasury, at the Office of the
Inspector General of Police, or at the stations for
which the supplies are required.
Bonds will be required for the following stations,
namely Metropolitan, Armldale. Goulburn,
Bathurst, Mudgee, Orange, Forbes, Dubbo, Mait-
land (East and West), Tamworth, Deniliquin,
Narribri, Albury, and Wagga Wagga.
Bonds must be signed within fourteen days
from date of notification of acceptance, failing
which the contract will be liable to cancellation.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-Secre-
tary for Finance and Trade, and endorsed “Tender
Tor Forage.’ ’ (Not more than one station to be in-
cluded in each Tender.)
The tenders for each station will be accepted or
■rejected separately.
It Is to be distinctly understood that the Govern-
ment will not necessarily accept the lowest or any
tender.
The cost of the necessary Duty Stamp must be
borne by the contractor.
The forage to be delivered in bulk, as ordered :
the net weight only, after deducting the fare to be
charged.
N.B.—Accepted tenders will be notified in the
Government Gazette, and such notice will be
considered as an intimation also to unsuccessful
tenderers that their tenders have been declined.
PARTICULARS.
Maize, per bushel of 56 lbs.
Or Oats „ 40 lbs.
Bran „ 30 lbs.
Hay per ton of 3340 lbs.
I Straw » 3«0 Ib«,
Stations.
Stations.
25
Metropolitan Dis-I
trlct:
Depot
Northern District:)
Armldale ..
TJralla
Walcha
Bendemeer
Bundara ..
Inverell ..
Tenterlield
Glen Innes
Maclean ..
Ashford ..
Grafton ..
Casino
Llsmore ..
Tweed
Lawrence...
Dalmorton
Emmarllle
Ulmarra ..
Balllna ...
Tingha
Wardell ..
Wllson’sD’wnfall »
Woodburn • •• 1
Blick's River .. 3
Stannifer .. . • 1
Chats worth Isl d 1
Ben Lomond .. 1
Copmanhurst .. 1
Brushgrove .. ■ 1
Oudgen .. .. 1
Bolivia • • 1
Drake .. .. 1
Southern District:
Goulbura.. .. 5
Collector .. .. 1
Delegate .. .. 1
Dalton .. • • 1
Kiandra .. •• 1
Buckley’s Cr’slng i
Bateman’s Bay .. 1
Tarrago 1
Marulan .. 1
Bungonla.. . • 1
Temora .. •• 3
Binda 1
Gunning 1
Krawarree .. 1
Yass 3
Bnrrowa .. .• 2
Morangarell • • 1
Binalong .. .. 1
Tuena .. • • 1
Taralga •• 1
Murrumburrah.. i
Young 3
Wombat .. •• 1
Maringo .. •. 1
Costamundry .. 2
CrookwelL. .. 1
Dryburgh.. .. 1
Braldwood .. 3
Cooma
Mice! ago ..
Bombala ..
Mongarlow
Queanbeyan
Wollongough
Araluen ...
Ginninderra
Cobargo ...
Major s Creek
Nelligen ...
Nimity belle
Moruya ..
Eden
Bega
Bungendore
Seymour .
Gundaroo
Panbula ..
Pudman’s Creek
Candelo ..
Frogmore..
Bethungra
Wheeo
Jindabyne
Burobodalla
Western District!
continued :
Girrilambone ••• 1
Capertee 1
Coolah .. •• 3
Wollar 3
Marsden 3
O’Connell Plains 1
8uarabone ... 3
udal 1
Nymagee 3
Curban 3
Mo’nt Macdonald 3
Wallerawang .. 1
Louth 3
Wyndeyer .. 1
Timbrebongie ... 3
Wanaaring ... 3
Eastern District
Campbelltown
Berrima ..
Camden .
Pioton
Parramatta
Ryde
Richmond
Windsor ..
Liverpool..
Penrith ..
Shellharbour
Wollongong
Kiama
Shoalhaven
Milton
Dapto
St. Alban’s
Smithfleld
Wilberforce
Appin
Broughton Creek
Mittagong
BuUi
Moss Vale
Robertson
Wilton
Kangaroo Valley
Peat’s Ferry
Western District
Bathurst ..
Hartley ..
Wyagdon..
Sofala
Rockley ..
Hill End ..
Hargraves
Oberon
Rylstone ..
Ilford
Mudgee
Trunkey Creek
Talbragar..
Warren ...
North-eastern Dis-
trict :
Maitland (East &
West 8
Wollombi 1
Singleton 3
Muswollbrook ... 3
Scone 3
Port Macquarie.. 1
Kempsey 3
Taree 1
Boat Harbour .. 1
Cessnock.. .. 1
Newcastle ... 3
Gosford 1
Raym’nd Terrace 1
Stroud 1
Dungog 1
Paterson 1
Casilts 3
Merriwa ... •• 3
Mount V incent.. 1
Denman 1
Tinonec 1
Nambuccra ... 1
Forster (Cape
Hawke) 1
Howe’s Valley .. 1
Lawriston (Cam-
den Haven) ... 1
Gladstone.. •• 1
Bulah Delah .. 1
Broke 1
Cooranbong ... 1
Gresford 1
Branxton 1
Lochinvar ••• 1
Clarence Town.. 1
Jerry’s Plains ... 1
Cundletown ... 1
Gloucester .. 1
Copeland 3
Wingham 1
Kerrabee 1
Hawke’s Nest
(Tea G’rdens)... 1
Lambton 1
Wallsend 1
Minmi 1
Arakoon 1
Fernmount ... 1
Bungwall Flat... 1
N orth-western
District:
Tamworth
Gunnedah
Barraba ..
Wallabadah
Nundle ...
Murrurundi
Currabubula
Somerton..
Manila
Black Creek
(Blackville)
Quirindi ..
Moonbi ...
Carroll
South-western Dis-
trict:
Deniliquin
Hay
Wentworth
Moulamein
Moama ...
Mount Hope
Carathool...
Jerilderie...
Balranald...
Euston
Booligal ...
Wilcannia
Menindie ...
Pooncarie...
Mathoura
Darlington Point
Gilgunnia..
Mount Gipps .
Tocumwal
Hillston ...
LakeCudgelico.
Tibooburra and
Milperinka
MountHope
Maude
Mossgiel
Euabalong
Lake Victoria
(Salt Creek) ...
Clare
Namoi District:
Narrabri
Boggabri
Wee Waa
Pilliga
Walgett
Goodooga
Y etman
Pulourie
Grawin
Carinda
Angledool
Millie
Moree
Meroo
Warialda ..
Bingera
Baradine
Coonabarabran..
Tambar Springs
Mogil Mogil
Boggabilla
Collarendebri
Mungundie
Murray District:
Albury
Corowa
Ten-mile Creek...
Kyamba ...
Tarcutta ..
Wagga Wagga
Tumberumba
Mulwala ...
Walbundrie
Tumut
Adelong ...
Gundagai...
Jugiong ...
Narandera
Tirana
Reedy Flat
Howlong ...
Junee
Hanging Rock...
Gerogery...
Bowna
Ournle
For conditions of contract see Government
Gazette.
GEORGE R. BIBBS.


F
H
URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring street*, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furnituEe, centre and sms
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in Exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, &cT
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley)
Newton, and Lamb.
LARGEST STOCK IN
JC THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
TJEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
JLJ and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for singfh
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, cheat drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from ids; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s: Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
s
i)
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound,
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BjRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
CCASION;
Tapestry,
elegantly finished in
broidery, Plush, &c.
CHTFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-strect.
ASY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
Drawing-room occasional chairs.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penslve.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND.
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two Haves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
lELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
A
• ■
T V
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verxa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash —strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four Inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
rARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY BLEdANT iter '
ems for Drawing-room.
FRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS. —A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
IRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
alnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EL STEALS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
ites.
Jon-
f
Wal
B
W
desermtions at lowest rat
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’C
nell-street.
with marble. 35« each. Ft RAH
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES BRAD-
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very complete
Assortment; best make, lowest prices.
A singular ship is H.M.S. Frolic. Through
some flawiniher building, she won’t go straight;
and, though her screws are perfectly similar, it is
only possible to keep her on a course by the
engines working 100 horsepower more on one side
than the!other.
David Daunson is panting for the fray. He
has not well made up his mind as to what the par-
ticular character of the fray will be, but he asserts
he is ready. He is willing to wager the winnings
of a year that, on any subject, from the Dog Tax
to the Contagious Diseases Bill, he can spill more
words over the floor of the Victorian Legislature
than any three in that loquacious chamber. No
takers.
“A CHECK TO DRUNKENNESS,”
That Curse of Nations, which desolates our
homes, fills our gaols, and ends in painful un-
timely Death. A beverage is wanted that stimu-
lates, yet not intoxicates. Its price must be
moderate. The problem is satisfactorily solved
by
DALM AND OBRTEL’S SELTZER-WATER,
Patronised and ordered by all leading doctors.
Highly spoken of by the Press. “ No family should
be without it.” We also highly recommend our
Lemonade, Soda-water, Ginger Ale, Tonic. Lithice-
water for Gout—the only remedy. Potass-water
for Rheumatism. Prledrichshalfer bitter-water,
and Carlsbad. For centuries known as the best
purgatives. Obtainable at leading Hotels, Grocers,
Chemists, &c., throughout the colonies. For town
and suburbs delivered by our carts.
MINERAL-WATER WORKS,
P7 Bourke-street, Kcdferu.
The accompanying illustration shows an
elegant dress for matinees or garden parties.
The skirt is composed of three flounces of
deep cream lace. The over skirt is a ground
work of brocaded satin with broad pale blue
stripe, cut square, with Elizabethan collar
formed of lace to match the skirt. Two
Gloire de Dijon roses are fastened on the
shoulder, and the lace is caught across the
throat with a long bar-pin brooch. The
sleeves, just to the elbow, are finished with
a frill of lace, turned back. Gloves of un-
dressed cream kid. Hat composed of silk
and lace to match the costume.
SOCIAL.
Up Mai tland way there has been a little
“ fresh ” In the stream of social life lately. The
regatta was one item, and the ladies supported it
well with their presence. Glaring sunflowers seen
on some dresses mute harmonised with the
weather, and on the Reserve nothing'but a para-
chute held up to thepitiless sun could save peachy
cheeks from ruin. Then there was the Mechanics’
Ball in the Masonic Hall, when pne or two had the
courage to still trot out “fancy” dresses, and
Emmerson’s music was provided. Then the Dun-
more cricket club held a ball in the School of Arts
there, which they decorated for their guests’
delectation with as much greenery as the swelter-
ing Summer has left. The tasteful white is in
favour at Dunraore, and Maitland sent the belle.
All the cricketers enjoyed the ball, the wag of the
team explaining that though it was unpleasant to
be dismissed from the field with a “round O,”
he didn’t mind “going out with a duck” in the
School of Arts.
_ - * ♦ *
Cricket again. We trust we do Australian
ladies no wrong when wo say that “ matches ” and
“ catches ” are things they take a decided interest
In. Or, yet further—things they are even willing
to sometimes take a most active part in. Circum-
stances that came, in quite a natural way, under
our notice last Saturday, suggested this idea; and
we shrewdly suspect there were ardent youths
“ caught ” quite as dexterously on the lawn as any
on the field that sunny afternoon. Beauty made,
if not its largest, one of its brightest shows, and it
was well worth while taking a good long look at
the crowded, fluttering Stand—only one gets be-
wildered at'the sea of faces. All the latest Summer
toilets and millinery were shown, and in so
great a variety that it is hopeless to attempt
a description of more than a few pro-
minent figures. But first, and most promi-
nent, were the gigantic Bonnor, and Boyle,
both in gaudy coats that at once reminded us of
poor Joseph of old—whose history, by the way,
gives us the first biblical allusion to the theatre.
Joseph, you remember, occupied a free seat in the
pit. However, these cricketers escorted ladies.
One was Miss Maggie Moore, in a shot silk of
boiled plum shade, with pinked flounces, and
draped with black lace, under an immense straw
hat. A young lady who did much promenading,
not unaccompanied, of course, was Miss Parker,
of North Shore, all in white, with tartan silk belt,
and a little blue ribboned bonnet; and all deli-
cious. Mrs. John Waugh, of Balmain, wore a
superior tawny yellow cashmere, with satin trim-
mings and bows a shade darker; it was uncom-
monly pretty. A faultlessly neat and pretty
costume was worn by Miss Gore—who will be
recollected as a red rook in the chess tourna-
ment—the skirt, fine white India muslin, and
the top of darkest coffee brown zephyr with
long tail ends and some six or eight golden
rosettes marking its points, brown parasol to
match ; all in charming taste. Mrs. E. Barton
came in with the Speaker, and wore a light stone-
brown fabric in long pleats, and white sprays
worked on the flounces and marking the breast
of bodice; violet sash, and close beaded bonnet.
Mrs. Brook, of North Shore, was garbed in a fine
black dress, caught up with steel-bead buckles—a
boldly effective dress. Escorted by a doctor of
laws, was a very pretty girl in a kind of vesta-
box patterned plaid of bluish hue and a cardinal
belt; and another charming little figure was all in
terra cotta, dull and brignt tints combined. It
was exceedingly pronounced; but, then, one can
justly say of some girls—as Burns did of his hand-
some Nell, when he first started experimenting in
the sweetheart line—“ there’s a something in her
look gars ony dress look weel.” That was about
the state of affairs in this Instance; and, if it hadn’t
been pronounced, we might have missed some-
thing nice. A lively girl in white produced, we
suspect Intentionally, a subtle effect by flashing a
crushed-strawberry parasol in the face of Phoebus,
and the reflection onher own was a rich warm glow
that coupled with speaking; eyes, was most interest-
ing to watch. It’s real nice being in the Stand,
iuoticing these things. A tall gentleman of a big
squatting family was cavalier to two very urfiJi.iLt
young ladies in maroon satin set off with trimmings ,
of line snow-white lace, both alike. A dress that
arrested many an eye, and ours, was an indigo-
blue bodice, short and tight in make, worn by a
tall brunette, who expanded bell-shape below the
waist line into countless minute flounces of fine
cream lace. It was not a costume born to blush
unseen, by a long way. Miss Berry came over the
water in sweet rose-pink, with draperies depend-
ing from the waist, and puffed shoulders, with
white lace trimmings, and splendidly feathered
hat, and divers other notable attractions. Misses
Walton wore beautiful silks of a delicate bath-
stone tint, and white trimming—both quiet and
fashionable. The beauteous Scots Queen of the
Fayre, Miss M‘Farlane, gracefully displayed a
Summer dress of deep cream, almost yoke-yellow,
with lace-edged flounces all down the airy skirt;
and a small black and white bonnet. These neutral
tints were in great favour, ranging almost from
dead white to cream, grey, stone, and up to warm
fawn shades. Silver belts, too, either in a glitter-
ing band of smooth metal, or in chain or chased
designs, were worn. Miss Moses was fascinating
in a white lawn, with a claret hat, a fraise feather,
and a champagne-colouredsunshade; these dashes
of colour being sufficient to enhance the dainty
white. Mrs. Weisener, of Croydon, in warm
pink cashmere hung with broad lake lace, and
a dashing Gainsborough, was a conspicuous
ornament on the promenade. Miss Wldgery, of
Bourko-street, also wore a dress full of
colour, though quite different; the skirt was
sky blue muslin with three rows of white lace
thereon, and a top of black silk, the separate tails
held together with black cord lacing; black straw
hat and blue parasol. Black and blue are acknow-
ledged to be a good combination, even in Parlia-
ment. Charming was a semi-blonde’s coffee-brown,
draped back and front over a skirt of striped
brown and grey; brown bonnet and flowers, over
a rebellious-looking friz of hair. With a gentle-
man, came a lady in fairy white gossamer, who
attracted many interested glances; but they were
baffled by a tantalising veil from the little white
bonnet, from whoso centre glowed one large
bright scarlet rose. When wo explain that the
gentleman wore a rather nice and apparently new
suit of dark brown cloth, wo shall be excused for
mentioning him because he really, by strong con-
trast with the white, contributed so much to the
lady’s artistic success. This idea of a lady having
a contrasting cavalier might be carried out to any
extent; wo make a present of it to the chief sex.
A cornflower blue satin and cashmere was notice-
ablo. Miss Gilchrist's white muslin was circled
with a metallic belt; and Miss Thorne, and the
daughters of a well-known Burwood solicitor were
all white-wearers. The grandest dross we noticed,
was composed of ottoman silk skirt of the rich red
hues a on in a poppy’s heart; the redingote was same
coloured satin embossed with velvet flowers. The
whole material was thick and stood out flrmly.
This sumptuous dress was worn by Mrs. Frank
M‘Donald,
• * •
The reception held by our new Mayoress,
last week, at the Town Hall, proved—as all festive
gatherings usually do—a good opportunity to the
ladies for a display of elegant toilettes. However,
as the company were seated nearly the whole time,
there was, alas! little chanoe for promenading,
which, of course, would have shown die fair
wearers off to more advantage. It would be a
difficult and somewhat lengtny task to describe
all the varied styles in detail, or to mention even
all the most noteworthy costumes ; so a few must
suffice. Mrs. Hardle herself was in black broohd ;
Lady Robertson wore black satin and corded silk ;
Mrs. Hotfnung looked well in a peculiar fawn
check; Miss Q. E«gar wore a pretty white flounced
dress, with knots of red ribband ; and Miss Neill
shone in black Spanish lace, enlivened with
touches of yellow here and there, while a tall
blonde was radiant in pale blue nun’s veiling
and little Prim o°se bonnet, coloured with
glistening white beads. Mrs. C. J. Roberts
wore a black costume and white flowers. A dark-
eyed belle from Ashtteld, appeared in cream and
cerise cashmere; and her sister looked no loss
happy in pale pink Indian muslin and soft lace. A
trio garbed with sweet simplicity in white book
muslin and bright-hued sashes, were assiduously
attended by a young specimen of the genus
“ masher,” well-known in George-street and there-
abouts. It is prophesied that the reign of the
Henri Deux chapeaux will soon be over, for they
have become such a common and universal epi-
demic as to threaten their own downfall; it is
really quite a relief not to see one now and again.
What wo shall then have new in head-gear, when
their departing knell has rung, is uncertain—so
capricious and startling are the vagaries of fash-
ion. Not so many gentlemen as ladies attended
the reception, but, then, as we know the latter
have less leisure to enjoy themselves than their
better-halves; but the faces of the Hon G. Bagar,
Mr. J. J. Calvert, Mr. J. Barnet and other well- i
known men were all there,
♦ * 9
There was a Baby Show at Parramatta on
the 6th instant. About 35 tine infants kicked and
competed. There was very little betting. Dr.
Rowling courageously undertook to judge them.
The prizes went to Master Howard, tour months
old (£10 sowing machine), Miss M’Lemman, nine
months, and Master Cheeseman, four months.
They were all in-fanoy dresses. When the names
of the prize-takers were announced, all the other
babies turned their heads away and burst into
tears. But their mothers tickled them with one
finger, and said “ Did ’urns, then ? ” and then they
all got cheerful again. One of them remarked
“Goo!”
• «
A few days ago, in the Western District of
Victoria, there occurred one of the most remark-
able weddings ever known in that colony. The
bridegroom was a young Presbyterian clergyman
of Shelford, the Rev. Mr. Steward, and the brido
Miss Jenny, second daughter of the well-known
owner of Warrambine Station. When Mr. Robert
Armstrong determined to celebrate his daughter’s
marriage, he could have done it in pretentious
style at a crack church, and given a breakfast to
the Hite few; but he didn’t. This is what occurred.
He invited every man, woman, and child within
50 miles of Warrambine to come to his homestead,
and most of them came; and he made them all
welcome alike—from the squatting magnate with
a handle to his name to the boundary-rider with
a handle to nothing but his stockwhip, they were all
greeted cordially and made free of the whole
place. The scone is said to have been one un-
paralleled in the colony; not for grandeur, pos-
sibly, but for genuine honest festivity, and could
only be compared to the great county rejoicings
at home, when the heir of a lordly estate cele-
brates his “ coming of age.” At noon, the Revs.
Gardener and M. M‘Donald (the new Professor of
Theology) performed the marriage service in the
homestead drawing-room, and then, in a marquee,
said to have been the largest ever erected for such
a purpose in Victoria, 400 guests sat down to
breakfast, in view of two large tables crowded
with presents to the bride. Speeches followed,
and dancing was kept up till morning. The bride
and bridegroom spend their honeymoon in Tas-
mania.
♦ * *
Last Saturday, the Hon. Ivo Francis
Walter Bligh, of cricketing fame, made Miss
Florence Rose Morphy, youngest daughter of the
late Mr. J. 8. Morphy, P.M., happy. The ceremony
took place at St. Mary’s Church, Sunbury, the
Revs. W. C. Ford and H. N. Wollaston officiating.
Ivo, being the second son of an Earl, of course un-
usual interest was taken in the wedding. A
special train from Melbourne conveyed two
hundred guests to the church, which was
most elaborately decorated. The bride, who was
given away by Sir W. J. Clarke, was attired in
a Princesse brocaded white silk dress, trimmed
with honiton lace, and veil of plain tulle, fastened
with a diamond arrow. The bridesmaids, who all
wore Cambridge blue, were Misses Lily Snodgrass,
Lily Fisken, Blanche Clarke, Marion Jeffrey,
Mary Clarke, Amy Parkyns, Jessie Osborne, and
Raby Parkyns. The groomsmen were Lord
W. Neville and Messrs. G. F. Vernon, E. D.
Verdon, A. F. Robinson, Walter Clarke, War-
rington, C. Clarke, and R, Clarke. The wedding
breakfast took place at the Rupertswood new
ball-room, Plock’s band being in attendance. The
bridegroom, in responding to the toast of the day,
made a rather happy allusion to the fact of his
having that day played another •* winning match.”
Early in the afternoon, the wedded pair left for
the residence of Sir George Verdon, Macedon.
• • •
At the Broughton Creek Agricultural and
Horticultural Society’s first show, on Thursday
and Friday, 7th and 8th inst., the attendance on
the first day was 1300, that on the second 3500. The
new show room, and all other buildings in connec-
tion therewith, was erected by David Berry, Esq.,
of Coolangatta, free of all expense. The show was
a great success, the entries of cattle and horses
being the largest that have ever been known in the
district. Visitors from Sydney, Wollongong,
Kiama, Shoalhaven, and Moss Yale were present.
The fair sex displayed some very pretty costumes,
but it was impossible to particularise many, owing
to the great crowd. A few, however, were notice-
able. A young lady from Kiama set off a very
neat figure and a smiling face with a pink sateen
trimmed with lace. Two local young ladies looked
pretty in black silk. Two sisters from Broger’s
Greek, attired in riding costume, were very much
admired in consequence of the felicitous dis-
closures of eleqantform due to the “habit.” A
local lady looked charming in maize, as also did a
young cantatrico in navy blue sateen and plaid
Miss Geoghegan, of Kiama, took first honours as
best lady rider, and first prize for best ladies’
turn-out; Miss Moss, of Broger’s Creek, being
second In both events.
** * *
Old students of King s College, London,
Intend to give a special welcome to Bishop Barry.
Doctors Kyngdon, Rowling, and Belgrave, chief
movers. A London paper states the Canon was
expected to go off on St. Valentine’s Day, per
Indus It is announced that the Rev. John
Sbraughan, of Parramatta, is soon to confer his
name on Miss Fowler, of Summerhill, The weaker
vessel becoming the straughaner Mr. J. Syme,
a new freethought lecturer, arrived in Adelaide
from England, and is now in Melbourne. Friend of
“Iconoclast.”—Last week, a social entertain-
ment was given in the new residence of the
R.C. Bishop of Maitland, just handed over by
the builder. But no more frivolousnoss,
Captain Crombie, whose fine four-master, Port
Jackson, made such a capital flagship for the
Balmain Regatta, was entertained at dinner by his
friends on the 8th, before leaving for Liverpool.
... Mr. Q. Deloitte, an old yachtsman, was dinnered
by members of the Naval Brigade, before going
home. Deloitte-ful affair Gladys says that
“ Ivo Bligh’s cricket team, though unsuccessful
in * carrying back the ashes,’ made more ‘ mashes ’
than any team ever known.” Smart girl, Gladys.
— Hospital Bazaar in Queanbeyan at Easter
Mr. George Lacy, the well-known Freethinking
journalist, and late conductor of the Liberal in
Sydney, went home per Parramatta on Monday
Herr Plock is one of the musical landmarks of
Melbourne, and his friends gave him an ivory
baton, gold-mounted, the other day. He enter-
tained a number at dinner A son of Major
Sargood is to be married. The Major has a lot of
sideboards covered with silver cups and things he
| won years ago when a champion rifleman of Mel-
bourne. Who so lit to be Minister of War?....
At a church bazaar coming soon at Moree, there is
to be a bachelor’s stall, from which the pedatory
youth will sally out and plunder the ladies. Re-
venge is sweet, especially on woman. And, any-
how. it’s making things moree-qual than they
have hither been....Dr, Schomburg, of Adelaide
Gardens, lately received a valuable portrait of
himself as a present. On dit that the doctor’s son
In Sydney has also possessed himself of a valuable
present — Baron Tennyson has been reading
Parkes some of bis poetry. Parkes said it was
“very nice.” Sir Henry put his signature to Ten-
nyson’s last agreement with his publisher Macmil-
lan, as a witness— At Daptn Show, grand hurdle
jumping by lady riders... .Florence, to the son of
an Earl. We'vo always noticed the earl-y bird
catches something or other ...At a ball In another
colony, the complexions of some lovely ladles
underwent, a peculiar change during the evening.
The beautiful creamy white skins—the sort that
make a man’s lips quiver — gradually became
streaked, and turned a yellow brown, and the ball
had to be broken up. The ladies had used a
powder composed of bismuth and chalk. Great care
should be exercised in selecting powder for a ball....
Melbourne items: Captain Henderson, late of the
Ferret, is engaged in the mat business at Pent-
ridge ; and Wild Wright is a bootmaker.... We
presume the Sydney Tricycle Club will admit
ladies ? Uniform is grey; and the first run will be
on Saturday, 1st March — The Marchioness of
Norman by has been very ill Moncure Conway
writes in the Glasgow Herald that “Australian
ladies are graceful, and dress richly, but their
street dresses would be regarded in London or
New York as about ten years behind the times.”
Moncuro is a discreet man. He didn’t men-
tion this distressing tendency of our girls to-
wards antique fashions, when he was here
Mr. W. Martin, of Waverley, gave his com-
mittee and friends a collation in the Pacilic
pavilion at Bondi, Saturday. He has attained the
distinction of alderman, and so they drank his
health — Mrs. A. Kurts gave a party at Elizabeth-
street on the 6th inst., which was most enjoyable.
Diamonds were in great force. About 60 guests
danced to De Groen’s inspiring orchestra till the
rosy morn, and some of the toilets were exceed-
ingly pleasing A banquet was given on
Monday by Mr. P. Hayes, at Neutral Bay,
to mark completion of the new Government
Wharf, Three Ministers, and a number of
prominent men present; speeches by Dibbs
and Abbott—Prosessor Chriatison, who has just
arrived from Lendon, where he has possessed him-
self of all the latest moves and fashions in dancing,
is commencing tuition—Cables state that Miss
Fortescue (or Finney) has claimed £50,000 damages
from Lord Garmoyle for breach of promise. He
loved her very much on the stage, and thought
her an angel. We can only surmise that when she
was paying Papa Cairns a visit up in the North,
Miss Fortescue must have put her knife into the
salt-cellar, or something.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Plain and Fancy Ball (Parramatta! February 20.
Grocers’ Annual Picnic (Botany) February 20.
Carthona C.C. Excursion March 1.
Drapers’ Annual Picnic March 6.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nlthsdale) March 14.


jp UBLIC NOTICE.
you, m, i co.'s
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severs,
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by ago, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. The great demand
for this old Irish brand in Bugland. Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold bj leading mer-
chants throughout tho colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for ago and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Oistillers. Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BRIAN BORU
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND*
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 35 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
v £*TRACTofDANDEUON
foforLiver Complaints.
y MARSHALL SROTHERS*
Chemists, market street
JOHN P. COWLES,
Tea Inspector, Packer, & Shipper
FOOCHOW, CHINA.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 4th February, 1884.
FRESH TENDERS FOR ADDITIONS TO
TEACHER’S RESIDENCE.
FRESH Tenders are invited for additions to the
Teacher’s Residence at the Pennant Hills
Public School.
Plans and Specifications may he seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Fresh Tenders for Additions
to Teacher’s Residence. Pennant Hills Public
School,” must bo lodged with the Acting Under-
secretary, Department of Public instruction, at
or before 10 o’clock a.m., on Wednesday, 27th
February 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Co’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OP ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
OK THE
23riclls:±leld. XX111-
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
|3|F“ Thee© Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
lace certains, 200 different PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasfcs, to match the Curtains. Table Nankins- Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine caretully the engraving of our
“ UACE CUR I'AINS.”
LACE CURTAILS, lOO PRICES.
Ladies residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, Cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
tly
i
>
: r.
i
£
B
<
&
MM
Price : 12s. 6d., 15s., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
Jlacb curtains 1 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. Place curtains^
patterns and Price Lists of floods forwarded on application.
-'Vi-
liriii.il
i
ALLT &C
it
i
'>P,i if I i
z/T/V
•raimmuniiallf-
o
rt, ALLT & Cl’S New Wins and Stint Sims sai Cellars,
CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
™™AN. HAratTKV, BPITQlf * C0„ ( Me€B*. A. C. MEUKOVV CO., Q I M«srs. MUNZEH & , ta „.
JOHN^OB^TS^?N°&'sons’ I E & J BuilKE .i The Due d- Montebello Champagne, S/Ay, France;
” JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS, | „ E. & J. SparJiiimr Treof A-e : I TheCnareate Vmeyard Proprietors, Ctarente.
London Agents: Messrs. Arthur Allt & Co., Wormwood Cham oe it?, Wormwood-street, L.C.
After groping in the dark for centuries in
Quest of a thoroughly pure stimulant and tonic the
faculty found it some thirty years ago in the now
celebrated Wowb’s Bowapw.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dear Belle,— The weather was perfection. Not
a cloud in the sky, nor any of that horrid wind to
blow the dust in our faces or our fringes out of
curl—1 mean the day of the Mayoress’s reception.
Although we went early, the pavement in front of
the Town Hall was thronged with carriages and
people. The Mayoress, who looked very gracious,
was attired in a rich trained black broohe, with
point lace fichu and cap, gold jewellery, and car-
ried a beautif ul bouquet. Miss Hardie wore claret
gfik, with heavy cream silk lace trimming ;
chapeau of striped straw trimmed with cream silk
and gold lace. The Misses Fitz-Stuhbs looked nice
in soft cream dresses, long yellow gloves, and
small white bonnets trimmed with black velvet
and field flowers. Miss Barton also wore a cream
costume, the top skirt being handsomely em-
broidered in silk of same colour. Then there was
a cream gauzy dress with tiny bouquets worked
upon it in silks, and worn over a pale cream satin
skirt. Of course, there were a great number of
black dresses. Mrs. S Hordern s was black, but I
was not near enough to see of what material it
was made; but her bonnet was most becoming-
black and white velvet with pale yellow flowers.
Mrs. Joseph’s costume was of black satin, and her
hat of apricot lace with rich plumes of same hue.
A most uncommon and tasteful dross was worn by
a tall slight lady. It was of black lace, the skirt
flounced, each flounce being edged with straw
embroidery and tiny pompons of straw. It looked
so very nice that if I were you, and had so much
spare time, I should get some of the straw braid
and try and work some of this new style of em-
broidery. It is very simple and so effective. Mrs.
Rosenthal wore an old gold satin skirt, with black
broohe top, relieved with old gold ribbon bows—
bonnet composed entirely of polyanthuses with
then; leaves. An apple blossom silk, trammed with
dark blue passementerie, was pretty. A pale green
lustre with narrow bands of darkest green velvet
looked well. The handsomest dress, I thought,
was a trained olive green skirt, panier and bodice
of pink brocaded satin, dark green bonnet with
Eink plumes, pink gloves and parasol. Mrs.
levlin’s dress was also very fine! a d?ep claret
ottoman silk redingote, over a handsome brocaded
skirt; fine straw bonnet of same colour trimmed
with dark leaves. Miss Devlin’s drees Was simple
but tasteful; a soft white hat with feathers to
match. Coffee, tea, and Ices were served during
the afternoon, and altogether the affair was quite
sociable and comfortable,
Mrs. Foster’s concert was advertised for the
evening, and has there has lately been a dearth of
concerts, tired as we were, we All #bfil. I felt
vexed to see so many empty Chairs; bm; After
glancing at the programme I Ceased to Wonder at
it, for, atbelt the iiAmba Of the performers
were a sufficient guarantee that there would be no
lack of talent, still It Was all talent with which we
were well acquainted. Who has not hoard HalJe-
well sing, Foster play the piano, and Francik the
violin? All these are good, very good, but we
must have novelty. Mrs. Foster sang “’Twas a
dream ’ very nicely, but I thought hardly so well
as she sang it some weeks back In the Ashfleld
School of Arts. For an encore, she gave “ Within
a pane of Bdinboro’ town,” one of Miss Alice
Sees’ favourite songB. There is a refinement about
Mr. Foster’s playing which one often listens for in
Vain from a more dashing performer. Men-
delssohn’s duet (Songs without Words) he played
With Exquisite taste, but for a concert solo I did
bok think it a wise choice. As an accompanist, he
bdteesses the rare gift of forgetting himself and
thinking only of the singer. Mr. Hallewell was
nearly himself again In “The Monk,” and I was
quite sorry he did not have more to do. I Wa8 Agree-
ably surprised with Herr Francik’s Violin solo.
He played with fat mote tire than his previous
Performances Woilld entitle one to expect. But-
ch, dear 1—he swayed about dreadfully: it gave me
the fidgets to watch him, I know quite well that
the violin can be played (and well, too) without
the slightest movement of the body. You may
remember how perfectly still and calm both Urso
and Wilhelmj were during their performances—
and I think they were nice players, don’t you ?
Mrs. Spencer, who always dresses well, showed her
good taste in a very pale blue satin, the front of
the skirt being covered with rich white lace
flounces. The body was cut V shape, and trimmed
with a rich spray of crimson and pink flowers.
Mrs. Foster’s dress was also blue satin, but was of
a deeper shade, with flounces of the same edged
with white lace. A« they sang together in a duet
it seemed a pity they had both chosen dresses of
the same colour and yet not of the same shade, as
the effect was that one killed the other. Separately,
however, each was charming. I saw in the
Hall a nice dress of cream broohe, unrelieved
by any attempts at colour save a crimson rose
the hair. Signora Fabris (who presented Mrs.
Spencer with a beautiful bouquet) wore black
broche, and looked as she always does, very hand-
some. With her was a young lady in fawn nun’s
veiling, silver ornaments, and the hair dressed
very high. Mr. Baker was down for a Song at the
end of the programme, but Mr. Foster apologised
for his non-appearance, he being too ill to perform.
This brought the concert to a sudden termination.
You will smile when I tell you that the hair is
again worn flowing down the back, just in the
dear old-fashioned style. So, you see, you were
wise after all in not having yours out short—but
whatever shall we do who were less wise ? Of
course only those who have tine hair like you can
follow this fashion, and It will be great tun to see
how many there are.
Crinolines, I am sorry to say, are becoming more
numerous, and although I have heard many vow
they will never never adopt them, I fear me they
will hardly have the strength of mind to keep to
that sensible determination. Some are worn such
a size as to set one wondering where the limit is
to be. For my part, I think them hideous and
shall never be reconciled to them.
The Block dresses this week, as far as I have
have seen, have been very samely. Principally
white linens and lawns, and a very few zephyrs. I
saw one yesterday, however, which I thought
pretty. A salmon pink nun’s veiling, flounced and
trimmed with deep wine-coloured lace. The hat
was almost covered with the most beautiful
plumes, shaded from the wine colour of the lace
and the pink of the dress. It was very effective,
and was set off with a nice figure and a pretty face.
A copper-brown satin skirt with biscuit coloured
redingote wasnee; the sleeves reached the elbow
and were met by long brown undressed kid gloves.
Silk gloves are very much worn, and, as they are
to be had in any shade, one can have them to match
any dress. I promise you a longer letter next
week.
So, now, good bye,
Yours,
MAB.


Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
B. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA. HEADACHE. INDIGESTION.
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
WT" No Danger caw Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, O., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervoug
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull!
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18, 1880.
In regard to the Hereford’s Acid Phosphate, l
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all oases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. GILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Hereford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, ana is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Hereford's Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing urink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It Works like a Charm."
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bmlses, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy It tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp-
ttaerla.
A bottle of RBNNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use In
case of emergency, will often save a life or a Iona
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Bairon-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported Into this country, and have
gained throughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America*
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are thJ
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium
WTNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
KABRON .MOXHAM & CO-
aere Agent*
These old people whose blood has become
thin and steps feeble are praising Hop Bitters for
the good they have done them. See.
John T. McInnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, 36 O’Connell-
Strbet, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. Agents for
the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stock *
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for Arnold's’
and get It; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
Tne Diamond Dyes are the hest dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other dyes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
bake no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
In England, great interest was shown in
the series of swimming matches between Beck-
with and Finney, for £600, over distances of one
mile, two miles, and five miles. With respect to
the men, Willie Beckwith, though 26 years of age,
has been before the public for many years;
indeed, he was but four years of age when he
made his first appearance under the title of “ Baby
Beckwith, the Wonder of th° World,” on the 27th
of August, 1262. Since then he has gradually
worked his way upwards until he has placed him-
self in the premier position among professional
swimmers, a position which was also filled by
his father. Professor Beckwith, before him. James
Finney, who is 21 years of age, and scales 9st. 41b.,
has only been brought prominently forward for
the last two years, but during this period has
shown some high-class performances, the most
notable of which were his victories in the the
under-water championship, the 506 Yards Cham-
pionship of Lancashire, and the Mile Champion-
ship. Beckwith won the mile in 27min. 15sec., the
best time on record, and the two miles in 54min.
37gcc. The result of the five-mile event is not
yet to hand. After the decision of the two-mile
race, the principal supporter of Finney offered to
match his man to swim Beckwith, one mile, for
the sum of £1000 a side. The race, however, must
take place in open still water, and be decided in
May next.
Old Jock Bon, of Wappan Station, near
Mansfield (Vic.), was one of the race of sturdy,
rugged, genial, pioneer squatters which is rapidly
becoming as extinct as the Moa. Jock passed
away some years ago to the land where the foot-
rot ceases troubling and the shearers are at rest;
and if a rough hut honest heart, a kindly and
generous disposition, with unbounded hospitality
to all classes, from the dead-beat sundowner to
the pampered swell, be a passport to the regions
of eternal bliss, we may safely assume that ho is
now reposing somewhere in the neighbourhood of
Abraham’s shirt-front. He was a man of gigantic
proportions, and in his normal state of mind as
gentle as a child—a quiet, model infant, you know
—but when his temper was roused—which net
unfrequently occurred—he would Unburden him-
self of an avalanche of ornate profanity, alongside
of which the most brilliant efforts of the leading
bullock-persuaders of the district were simply
diluted Sunday-schooll literature of a very mild
type. Early in the “ fifties ” the spiritual neces-
sities of the settlers in the North-eastern district
were supplied by the ministrations of an itinerant
preacher named Graham. This labourer in the
Board's vineyard, like our old friend (if he will only
look upon us as such) Peter Campbell, used to perl-
grinate the Ovens district, hold services at the
different stations, and, taking it all round, used to
scoop a pretty liberal pool, when the contribution
Elate was panned out. Though, as we have already
inted, Jock Bon was a rough diamond, yet like
most of his fellow countrymen from north of the
Tweed, he was extremely pious at times—as piety
goes in modern times. The visits of the mission-
ary were, therefore, always welcome, if not alto-
gether on account of the spiritual consolation he
afforded, at least on the score of receiving the
latest gossip in those days, when intercommunica-
tion was unfrequent. Well, one Sunday after-
noon, the parson arrived just In time for dinner,
and, “ having done ample justice to the viands
we quote Alfred—washed them down with sundry
Jorums of “guid Scotch whusky ” (this was before
ook had taken to himself a young and lovely
wife), and, in company with his host, proceeded to
the shearer’s hut, where the station hands had
been mustered, to hold Divine service. The apart-
ment had been swept and garnished in honour of
the occasion, a couple of block seats were pro-
vided at one end for the pastor, and the “boss; ”
and the shearers, washers, and knock-about-men
were ranged reverentially on either side. The
services opened with a lengthy appeal for bless-
ings spiritual and temporal, the benighted heathen
were not forgotten, and even the aboriginals
camped near the wool-shed — including old
“Locket,” who had nearly murdered a China-
naan a week before for refusing to pay
tithe of his tobacco — came in also for
a share in the general supplication. Every-
thing seemed in full swing for a “ most re-
freshing season of grace,” when the parson
thought he would vary the proceedings by an
interval of sacred music, and selected the Old
Hundredth Psalm as the best and most popular of
melodies for the occasion. Ho read over the verses
I in the customary manner, and then, taking up the
air, started off in solemn measure, expecting that
all hands would join in the tuneful lay. But he
reckoned without his host, for not a single voice
was raised in harmony, and the thin tenor of the
starter was tha only “ante” put up on behalf of
“ all people that on earth do dwell.” Then the
dormant spirit of Jock Bon was aroused: he un-
folded himself off the improvised seat, got on his
hind legs, and in a stentorian voice thundered out,
“Ye of hell, why dinna ye help the man to
sing?” There was no rospanse to this vigorous
and direct appeal, and the services were brought
to an abrupt conclusion with the Benediction.
It will be interesting to our readers to
learn that the King of Siam recently sent Prince
Prisdang, the Siamese ambassador, the orders of
Chula Chom Klao and Mara Surabhorn. The en-
voy rejoiced in the simple patronymic of Prince
Churabranchifaradouna: and the Insignia was very
valuable and costly, the diploma being written on
a slab of pure gold. Not forgetting himself, the
King has ordered from Benson, the jeweller, a
simple little gold sword belt, “containing upwards
of 1000 diamonds;” also a trifling diamond ring, in
which is a stone “ measuring inches across, and
weighing 66 carats.” This reminds us of the
Prince of Wales’ “sslmon trout brought from the
Khine on ice,” that cost £5 each, since the situa-
tion of this noble eastern m(.march's subjects Is not
an uproariously gay one. We know Bankok well,
and when wo were there wo took a good deal of
interest in studying the condition of the people
there. They are shockingly poor, but then after
all they want very little. As long as they can get
betel nut and lime to chew, and plenty of rice,
they’re about fixed up. Clothing hardly troubles
them at all; so little, indeed, that when we mot a
couple of native ladies taking a constitutional, wo
used to take off our hat and pretend to smell the
lining, as they do in church. The ladies’ costumes
only begin a few inches above the waist, and do
not go very far down. Like English ladies, the
Siamese belles are fond of silken sashes. When
one of these native beauties has donned a
broad yellow sash, she is equipped for any-
thing — from a race-ball to a snake hunt.
When we were there we lived almost en-
tirely on water-melons and bananas—and rum.
They used to give water-melons d discretion at the
hotel —Falk’s—but being thirsty one day after a
vain attempt to interview a few of the King’s
amazons at the palace, we bought one of an aged
crone, who—probably being in partners with the
King—vended her wares on the doorstep of the
Royal habitation. Having—this sounds somehow
like the old “Vag.”—a pocketful of ticals, we
tendered her one, upon which she arose in a state
of great excitement, and held long interviews
with other crones higher up the street, and also
with a posse of foot soldiers, who kept guard over
their Sovereign with condemned muskets, and
were habited in uniforms varying from a fireman’s
tunic to a boatswain’s jacket. When the old
woman came back, she began to give us our
change in zinc money. A tlcal, as most of you
know, is a small round ball of silver with a dent in
it. You take it for silver, but very often, when
funds are short with the King, they cast them of
lead. But so long as a tical has the Royal hole
plugged into -t, the people have got to take it for
lawful currency. We held out our hand until it
was full; then we held it out again and again. At
last her bag was emptied, and she requested
us in pantomime to take the rest out in goods
—offering native tobacco, Siamese toffee, and
a cast-iron pipe. We told her to wait till we
got a barrow, and broke away amidst a chorus
of astonishment. The only people who flourish in
Bankok are the missionaries. We knew a lot of
the godly gentlemen, and they all lived in splendid
houses in tno centre of spacious compounds. They
had converted so many of the Siamese that it was
said they were as great a power in the capital as
the King himself. Here, now, is an instance. A
! Siamese tradesman told the missus one morning
that he was going to a distant town up the river in
his boat to buy ivory. He started ; but it some-
how happened that he forgot something—his
lawn-tennis hat or pocket Tennyson, or some-
thing—and he returned suddenly in the evening.
Arriving at his house, ho found a European
sergeant of police established there after the man-
ner of the “Duke de L.” in the Madrid business,
playing “Molly Darling” on the concertina.
Pretending to suspect nothing, he pli 'id the ser-
geant with arrack, and when he was asleep,
he made his wife serve him as that demure
young lady, Miss Jael, in the Biblical legend,
served King Sisera. They then cut him up, as
the cookery books say, “in convenient parts,”
and sowed him about the adjacent country.
The man (who was a convert 1) then fled to the mis-
sionaries’ territory, and the authorities were afraid
to demand him. This story is extant, and doubt-
less writ in choice Siamese somewhere. The people
pay the missionaries in produce and ivory, and
these worthy Chadbands are the biggest and most
successful traders in Bankok. We had while there
an audience of the King, in company with the
French Consul and a steamboat-line promoter,
and his Majesty struck us as being a feeble boy
with a flat nose, small eyes, and a big dagger. He
was dressed in what Harrison Ainsworth delights
to call “ cloth of gold of tissue,” and had on a lot
of genuine diamonds, and one emerald about the
the size of a walnut, which had evidently been
discovered in Birmingham. The chief passion of
this noble ruler was “French” clocks, of which he
bad a splendid collection. He considered these
time-pieces great rarities, whereas they were only
“thirty-bobbers” at best, and as erratic in their
movements as Captain Cuttle’s turnip. You may
remember— Wal r, put it back a quarter of an
hour arter breakfast, and another twenty minutes
towards the evening-, and it’s a watch as ’ll do you
credit.” After the interview, his Majesty gave us
a gun. We forget how far it carried, but we have
a clear recollection of how much it fetched.
A DOUBLE EVENT.
“CERTAINLY NOT. BEER’S BAD FOR LITTLE BOYS.”
“THERE’S A FLY GOT INTO YOURS, UNCLE.”
A DOUBLE EVENT.


Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite la
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver la unequal to its work. To
obviate ail these symntoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM'S PILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by mag;c.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Laboiatory,
434 George Street, Sydney.
T30BEHT BUTCHER & CO.
"*■* (Late William Long),
vr WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt alteitlon.
C
HAMPION RACE, 1884.
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
Capital £3500, in 50C0 shares of 10s. each.
About 150 Prizes—
£1226 for Hortcs, and £1375 for Stars, &c.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution :
First Horse (winner of
Champion Race).. £500
Second Horse .. 250
Third Horse ,. .. 125
Starters divide .. 150
Non-starters divide £200
First star .. .. 40t»
Second do 200
Third do 1?0
Fourth do 100
Five stars of £20 each, £100; 13 stars of £10 each,
£120; 25 stars of £5 each, £125; 50 stars and towns
of £4 each, £200.
“ Adaraastor” begs most rospectfullv to inform
his numerous patrons that ho thanks them for the
liberal support that he has received, and herewith
submits a programmesimilar to that of last year’s
Champion Meeting. II parties are requested to
forward dratt, P.O. orders, or cheques; if cheques,
exchange must be added, and in all eases postage
fees; registered letters only received. Applica-
tion, by letter only, addressed “Adamastor,” care
of L. A. Pereira, Kdgcumbe's Hotel, Dean-street.,
Albury, N.S.W. P.y.—Results sent to every share-
holder. Sydney agency discontinued.
W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SSj.,
Bg/fiSSa!
EASY TERMS SYSTEM IS?
INSTRUMENT.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC,
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
1**
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
T EDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.-The
1 I drink of the sunny, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney.
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
B
£
GLASS, CHINA.
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AK» SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T GAYEN’S
ScbnaopsAnd Geneva.
A. MtiriV !N and SONS*
Kdinbrngn Pale 4 .e.
PAPERSANGI NOS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to matcu,
NURSERY V/.o/ERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
■U"aa.cLerta,lrer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was In the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
ST THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer, than the Finest.
The Tobacco off tho Age I
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The on y Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
&T Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Savwell’s Tohcco Co., Litn.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An> c»,n be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse.
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will he used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect tho public against spurious and worthless
‘imitations-
BASS PALE ALE.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
]/\i Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
BRISCOE, DRY SO & CO.,
m. uni, d ms
397 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINK
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN,
The beat known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
tf- URALCHA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC IE,
RAINS, BRUISES, J5URNS. SCALP J, &c and
aken internally cures DIARRHOEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other lUtbmi ache*
tnd pains.
Price, 2/- Sold Everywhere.
C. E. MOULTON, SOLE PB0P I 70R,
MELBOURNE -A-NID - DNEY.
PAINT
I .
K
Mar
BOAR S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To bo procured everywhere.
OATTKLL & CO- Sole Agents.
REGiSTWraro,
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Live and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements it nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. (id. Sold everywhere
Solo Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS,
M.P.S.. Pharmacists, 104 and 106 Market-street,
near Hyde Park, Sydney. N.H.—Ail imitation*
illegal.
engine**: —-
r.-tiy. . .
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOODWORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shellers, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors* Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated,
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 George Street, Sydney.


The Australian Court at the Calcutta Ex-
hibition is to be closed. This is unpleasant news,
but it is not easy to see how the authorities could
avoid it. The fact is, some visitors from Cash-
mere used to gather there every evening and play
upon their primitive musical instruments. The
Hindoo natives stood this good-humouredly, and
never made any complaints. But on Christmas
Day a tipsy piper belonging to a Highland regi-
ment strolled into the court with his bag-pipes.
Six inoffensive Baboos, or native gentlemen, were
in front of him when he started "The women are
a’ gone wud.” A second afterwards you couldn’t
see them for dust When last heard of they were
travelling towards Afghanistan. Some people
think the Himalayas may stop them, but this has
to be proved. Nothing but the presence of an
overwhelming military force prevented an insur-
rection in Calcutta, so to mollify the natives and
restore confidence to the “ Baboos,” the court had
to be closed and the piper deprived of his instru-
ment for twelve months and obliged to learn the
bassoon.
That weakness and lassitude so frequent
in fast-growing children, may be easily remedied
by a few doses of Hop Bitters. Read.
PYAEMIA,
Septiaemia, Scrofula, and other forms of blood
poisoning:, resulting in glandular swellings, ulcer-
ations patches in the throat and mouth, abscesses,
carbuncles, tumors, ulcers, sores, and skin erup-
pus, are speedily neutralized and expelled by
fPe Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood purifier,
while the skin is cleansed of all disfiguring humors
a y th e external use of Cuticura and Cuticura
boap, the great skin cures and beautifiers. Cdti-
cura Resolvent absolutely destroys diseased
germs, which float in the blood, urine, and per-
spiration—there is no doubt about it—aud expels
through the bowels, kidneys, and pores of
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light aud
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
fl ?H3PiK&eo?.* lnk D ° ° th ° rS - Samplinff
The luck—we suppose it must be called luck
—of Kate Vaughan is now as much a household
word amongst us as the man’s sauce which is said
to be (though wedon’t remember encountering it)
“at every picnic,” and as the starch which, when
you “ask for it,” you are adjured to “see that you
get it.” A rumour was current respecting this
young person that she was married, or was going
to be married, to the Hon. Arthur Wellesley, who,
as Kate has been, next to Langtry, perhaps the
best paragraphed actress of the past few years,
you are all aware is the heir-presumptive to the
Duke of Wellington, who is a feeble and childless
octogenarian. People, however, who know any-
thing about the ways of the aristocracy will only
recognise in the rumour either an ingenious “ ad.”
or a reckless canard. It is not actresses of Kate
Vaughan's stamp that Dukes in prospective marry;
an«t when they do marry even the more respect-
able class of players, it is under very different cir-
cumstances. But, (married or not, Kate Vaughan
seems to be doing remarkably well, indeed—
since when playing “Cinderella” at Bristol she
wore, in one scene, £10,000-worth of diamonds!
She is, therefore, running Miss Connie Gilchrist,
her rival at the Gaiety, pretty close; though it is.
to be presumed that the Lonsdale diamonds which
nightly bedeck that young lady are worth con-
siderably more than what Colonel Wellesley has
had to suffer for. Practically, however, Kate
Vaughan is independent even of her admirer;
since, owing to the notoriety she has acquired,
she is enabled to exact a salary of £100 weekly.
8ho is receiving that now from Mr. Augustus
Harris, of the T.R., Drury Lane. Before the
divorce business was hinted abroad she probably
got £15—just enough to spend in gloves and
Frangipanni. Had not Mr. Hollinushead persis-
tently kept burning what he funnily terms “the
sacred lamp of burlesque,” Miss Vaughan would
still, with her sister, have been doing three
“turns” nightly at the music halls, since her
dancing, though spirited and graceful, is not
scientific; and her singing, though fascinating and
all that, is not even good enough for comic
opera. A little while ago. she essayed at
the Brighton Theatre, Camille and Hosalind
but failed as dismally in both ns a pretty and in-
telligent woman could do. It was understood that
the Colonel wished her to take a higher walk in
the drama; hence the experi men!. Ladies of Miss
Vaughan’s undeniable beautyano social peculiari-
ties are always getting things a bit mixed amongst
people who move in society. Take, for instance,
the Fay Sisters, who were “ all the go ” before the
Sisters Vaughan danced their way into the hearts
of the military. The Fay Sisters were three in
number, and they had a very large following,
numbers of idiots following them about in car-
riages from one muslC-hah to another. They used
to sing rathef badly, and do a little ballet rather
vtelll attd they were girls whom Nature had fully
developed in every regard. The eldest was named
Laura, and she managed to completely fascinate a
gay-haired youth named Pott, whose father was a
Major-General, and whose uncle was Sir Samuel
Pott, Bart., the well-known banker. Young
Pott, it seemed, was only allowed a moderate sum
yearly for bis minus plaisirs, and that sum sufficed
him until he began to subsidise the ballet. Being
drained dry by Miss Laura, he consulted a friend
in the city, and between them they conceived the
happy idea of raising money by means of jewel-
lery. The first thing to be done, of course, was to
get the jewellery, and this they managed by Pott
giving bills at three months. Frodsham alone
supplied this young hopeful with some £5000 worth
of jewels, all—or nearly all—of which Pott's city
friend pawned at Attenborough’s. Mr. Pott and
the Fays had a gay old time until the first bill be-
came due, when, it being dishonoured, Mr. Frod-
sbam commenced to make enquiries, and in a little
while discovered what had become of his goods.
One night, shortly after this, the Pay Sisters were
performing at a London music hall, affectionately
known as “ the Met.,” and Pott and a party of
friends were admiringly surveying them from
a private box. Suddenly two “stern-faced
men ” entered uninvited, and Mr. Pott was
marched off in custody, much to the astonish-
ment of everybody. He was brought up
next day at the Mansion House, and committed to
Newgate for false pretences. It was a terrible
sight at that examination, to see the old white-
haired General broken down with grief, and to
hear his frantic (but unavailable) attempts to get
his boy out on bail, iln the end—after some weoas,
during which time the father had paid the whole
of the bills —the Judges allowed him out, bail being
tendered to the extent of £10,000. On the trial
coming off, Pott was allowed to go free on enter-
ing upon his recognizances to come up for judg-
ment when called on. During the incarceration of
the prisoner, it was suggested to Miss Laura Fay
that she should give up what she had received of
the stolen jewellery; but she couldn’t see it. Pott
was sent to Queensland, where wo saw him some
years ago, and the Fays flourished threefold after
the expose, and probably were successful in fleecing
plenty more “flats” of the Pott calibre. Miss
Kate Vaughan’s career will, no doubt, be watched
with considerable interest by some people. Women
will call her a “creature,” but yet lap up every
little line in which her name figures, and when
thejy see photographs of her in private dress, they
will snip away at the old sateen, and make it ns
much like Kate’s as a remnant of “ Turkey red,”
and six yards of real Maltese lace (at one-and-
three) will allow of. We are not particularly
interested in Miss Vaughan, ourselves. We’ll have
to wait till our uncle dies, and we come in for our
snare of tbe ham and beef emporium, before being*
interested in her would be of any use. It takes us
ail our time to supply our fair friends in this city
with sealskin bags and diamond lockets, to say
nothing of having to keen the family straight iii
the matter of coke and clothes-lines.
We are Retting “aweary” of Mr. Ben. A.
Greene, our campanological friend of Charters
Towers. Ben., it must bo known, is the beliman
add bill-sticker of that ilk, and he unites with
these poetic occupations a fervent love for the
"perfosh,” and a lurid desire to correspond with it.
This, of course, is right enough in its way, altho’
our experience of actresses’ letters is that they
are the dullest missives the world produces ; and
twenty-nine out of every thirty spoil “ agreeable”
with one ‘e.’ Ben., it seems, is particularly sore on
the subject of Maggie Oliver. So tar as we can
gather, he loves that charming young thing to
distraction, and not being competent to sing her
praises—the gift of poesy being by the cruel Fates
denied him-he has rung them so often over the
diggings that Maggie's name is now a household
word amongst the miners. Says Benjamin :—
“ Please let me know where Charlie Holly and
all my old favourite pros. are. Miss Maggie
Oliver 1 have not heard from, which is very
wrong on her part, not writing.” Of
course, it’s very wrong ; but wo can’t help it.
D’aiUeurs. we consider it unreasonable of Ben.,
who has, so rumour hath it, a forehead at the back
of his head, to expect young things of seventeen
to be gone on him. It has been our misfortune for
many years to be madly in love with Maggie our-
83lves. We have ardently, but respectfully, pur-
sued her for years, and have, even now, the
wedding-ring and keeper in the pocket where we
keep our briar-root “gig ” and tobacco. Countless
times have we voyaged up to that charmer’s
“little pub.” and drunk a jocose mixture called
dark brandy there, out of gouty bottles, with the
sole object of propitiating ner; but we didn’t find
we got along particularly well. It is true that
Maggie unbends a bit in private life; but when
she dons her silk tights and sings “The Widdy
Dunn,” no one can approach her who is not either
titled or lovely. We, therefore, recommend Mr,
Greene to accept this intimation in the spirit in
which it is written. Churchill, in “ The Apology,”
says
“ Actors as actors are a lawful game,”
but he exercises a wise discretion in not saying
the same with actresses. They require to bo
“ taken up tenderly, treated with care.” Well, so
far as Maggie goes, it would be no easy matter to
take her up tenderly or the reverse. Miss Oliver
(bless her!) has given up now playing in these
dramas where she is to be “carried off in the
melde.” There is so little romance, you see, in
either a wheel-barrow or a shutter. We saw
Maggie once in a drama of this kind in Queens-
land. The dialogue ran something as follows:—
Count Rudolf: You shall be mine. Miriam:
Unhand me, sir—my father. C. R.:-Hear mo. I
love you deeply, passionately; I will relinquish
you only with my life. Mir. : Help! help! (Enter
help, which does a broadsword combat with the
Count’s myrmidons.) Mir. (sotto vote) : Now,
carry me off. C R. (ibid, after a desperate effort):
I can’t. Mir.: Father, oh, my father save me!
(And carries herself off O.P.U.E.) C.H. (following
breathless): She is mine; she is mine.—And when
he got off, he was quietly advised to “ eat more
beef.”
A Beautiful Painting.— Mr. G. G. Green,
of Woodbury, New Jersey. U.S.A., is presenting
to druggists and others in this country some very
tine pictures in oil of his magnificent house and
grounds and laboratory at that place. Mr. Green
is the proprietor of Boschee’s German Syrup and
Green’s August Flower, two very valuable medi-
cines, which are meeting with great favour, the
first as a reinedv for Pulmonary complaints, and
the latter for Dyspepsia and disorders of the Liver
These preparations have attained an immense sale
solely on their superior merits and are sold by all
druggists throughout the world. The price is the
same for each, 3s. 6d. per bottle, or sample bottles
for 6d. The sample bottles enable sufferers to
prove their value at a trifling cost.*
Malaria from the undrained Pontine
Marshes, near Rome, is a terror to travellers.
Ayer’s Ague Cure is an effectual protection
from the disease, and a cure for those who have
become its victims. It works just as effectually
in all malarial districts on the side of the sea.
Biz.
The New Turkish Baths, Bligh-street,
Sydney.
One of the most important improvements as re-
spects health which have been effected in Sydney
for some considerable time has been the
rebuilding, on a most extensive scale, of
the Bligh-street Turkish Baths. The pro-
prietory secured capital space for their
undertaking, and in the course of a few
months has arisen a very fine substantial structure
with an interior design both unique and costly.
The entrance to the new establishment is
by way of the present handsome porch,
but it is only in this repect that the two are
connected, as the new baths extend away to the
rear, a separate arrangement altogether. The
principal apartment is about 40 by 30 feet, with
convenient, elegantly-furnished side boxes for
visitors, the floor being of pure white marble, and
in the centre is the largest marble bath in the
co lonies. It has a cubic measurement of not less than
2500 feet. This bath, into which bathers can plunge
on returning from the heating rooms is continu-
ally emptying and refilling, the replenishment
rendering it always pure and clean. Overhead is
a capital smoking gallery, furnished with tables,
lounges, electric bells, etc.; the whole place being
Illumined by a splendid sunlight of coloured glass.
The heating rooms, which are the rear of the
department j ust spoken of, are splendidly fitted up.
The floors are of the richest marble and the walls
of the purest enamelled brick. From twenty to
thirty persons can be accommodated at a time.
The heating appliances, seating, and general ar-
rangement of the departments are of the newest
and costliest kind, and the money has been spent
without reserve. The heating appliance is a patent
convoluted stove, specially imported, and com-
petent to constantly distribute over 30,000 cubic
feet of fresh heated air as required. By this
system the fresh air is taken from outside, heated
by the stove, and distributed through grids, the
colder air being also constantly removed. All the
rooms are thoroughly ventilated by numerous
Hues in the walls, fitted on top with floworth’s
patent ventilators. From the gallery over the
principal bath there! elegant stairway loading
to a refreshment-room, wherein light refreshment
—tea and coffee, &c.—can be obtained by the visi-
tors. Over these apartments, on the third floor,
are the quarters of the manager. In the front of
the new establishment, on Bligh-street, a spacious
room has been set aside for a hair-dressing de-
partment, which will be fitted up in capital style-
put into the hands of competent workmen—and no
doubt it will prove a convenience to the neigh-
bourhood as well as to visitors. The staff of
assistants will be increased, and will be found
thoroughly competent. Tke manager is Mr. C. A.
Sherwin, who has had considerable experience in
the work, and who, judging from the past decided
improvement, will secure for Sydney one of the
best institutes of the kind in the Australian
colonies.
"The Grand Secret."
Into the shadow, out of the sun,
Into toe night, for the day is done ;
Into the dark, sourceloss, endless stream,
Trac’d by no vision, lit by no gleam ;
Out of the ghostly, infinite tide,
Death for thy pilot, Doubt for thy guide !
Into the shadow, out of the sun,
Into the night, for the day is done.
Into the shadow, out of the sun.
The web is woven, the fabric spun ;
The light is fitful, and gliding low,
And a darkness falls like ebon snow.
Till time itself, ice-bound in its arms,
Winks asleep in Eternity’s calms !
Into the shadow, out of the sun,
Into the night, for the day is done.
Into the shadow, out of the sun,
The work of the mighty brain is done ;
The land that cunning and beauty wrought
Sinks pulseless beside it’s master, Thought,
To drift like the homeless shadows by,
Or meteors lost in trackless sky !
Into the shadow, out of the sun,
Into the night, for the day is done.
Into the shadow, out of the sun,
The battle is fought, the vict’ry won 1
Who is the victor ? who is the prey ?
Open the book that is hid from day.
The shadow 1 of what ?—the night V but where ?
In starry bliss, or hell-black despair ?
Into the shadow, out of the sun.
Into the night, for the day is done.
THE NEW TURKISH BATHS, BLIGH STREET.


/
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
‘restores, with the gloss and freshness of
I'yonth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
thrown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Butcher writes from Kirby, O..
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall ray hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation 1 should have been
eutirely'bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
1 speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation over failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “Fairbairn Family” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness — a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
V IGOR the falling stopped and n new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. 1 regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
_ ffl
® PREPARED BY
DpJ C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents,
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
tr THE PREMIER WHISKEY 18
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2vdZa.tia.recL
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHI8KIB
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON A CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY*
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Bxv • vt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ ' hiskey Doctors.’*
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule,
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACCREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
«3SS*
m
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKV.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
’ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AF Ii" BtF °" E MOUSTACHE and WHISEESS. befoue
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this,and
| will do it on either bald head or
bare face, forrea heavy Mous■
dSTicpfJti. tacfie infromZto 4 weeks and never a
J ails » 20, (XX) young vicn already *
i htiv ti tocur f ul1 beards, having used 1 to Copyrighted,
clh -i ea * il v applied, tertam in effect. Packet* U. (
T±c 3 J v, t , P0S ,‘ P “l d ! ,c . nt under ce ” er -- f T0m observati,
Agent, Box 730, 0.P.O. . Sydney ,N 8
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
TURNER & CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of tho
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING OQ,
TIME PAYMENTS:
3«. fid. per week— 3s. 6d. per week—2s. fid. per week.
And no interest charged,
10 per cent, off for cash.
Vr BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
578 Georsr©-street
3 doors past Bathurst-street.
THE ONLY “SINGER.”
Turner and Company 9
578 GEORGE STREET
3 doors past Bathurst-street.
A COLOSSAL TRADE!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in tho
LARGEST and Most EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
SUMMERFIELII Jfc Co., whoso chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt- st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAOGA, and 51 & 63
LEADENH ALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, tho well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W, FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Savillo Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MQRRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co,
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
BlSiBEWO.,
the peopled tailors,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
War ran ted f i rst q u a I i ty
'' Cna rges strictly modera te
MARSHALL BROTHERS
UuMesiLem' 5 ™ I.Q6.lylAflt,E TST E.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS
WITH SKILL.
PERFORMED
Teeth Stopped, and ExMracted Painlessly
ZOEOONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing
Invigorating.
The non-aJcohobo beverage acts as a brain am
nerve tonic, and does not Intoxicate.
ZOEOONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute fo
it invigorates withou
wine, beer, and spirits, as 11 mvigo
producing any Intoxicating effect.
npnl lif T7 nnnanotiAnt n • t
In case
debility consequent on TFong“ residence inT,
climate, it is of great service, as it acts not oniv
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent to
to the system.
n," *• . fi „ 1 .. .. 24/.
Price per oas-? containing 10 dozen }4 pints ...ay.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-atreet,
Sydney.
PAINTS. X
oils. Jy
(*3? WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 Gcorge-stroet.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
tor N.H. Pattern* and Price* *enf.
CTUDY ECONOMY,
and
HaveyourUmbrclla Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to Now, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst St*.
Parasols made to match cos-
tume*. Repairs neatly exa-
OUted
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVE BE I.,
A C
1
>u..
Tv
m :
m
-#H *«»4* <***•►
T
•TD
£
i#
nrn
□ □ □
#
..'*?■
r / i
YANKO HEIGHTS
rJP \
'
I
'VJ3“
P?
I IS 1
i
"V
THi: NH> V
s *Ur
M
«
>*
*
■ l -T’
y*'V>’“ IVIVillf •)
I8-- FEBRUARY
>iil30u
ItMMfk iMN VWW i
RtCHARBSOM &WRCIICH
AVJUVQHMKS
m
dr
*4
zi
■-‘il.V
sr
f.ERM 4^
10 /-deposit, balance 5/- per \
month.No interest
TORRES
~~ c;
RE S E R VIE
1 <•
vs-
m
i;: ;-■**?
W 29*28,27 ZbiS 24 23 2Z Zl Z01P l( fa K 15 14 13 I? II I# 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 : I 1 I
32131
» »3
O
>K
\
ADA ROAD
1029 2*77 Zb 2531Z3ZZ Zl jo i>?ih k.» b h ok « » #‘«,7 s s-lljjz'l
1 ■ 1 ‘ j jJLH 14 i tii 11 ! 11 !T(-l' i?
h4 '1ti it ntij'h t
' ■«590061 62*3)64 65 666V I48'63 W?I72 7^M7JK
H 40^142
45464748 43 5*51 52,55
HS
"
■3736 55,34.33 32 292827 2625 2115|222l »r.B l« 1716 15 M 1312 II 10 9|8 >|S 5,4 I
B V R r ()!\ • . ROAD
3
m
nil mm
3*404^4?4544454614748145051 52 535455 5C 57 5* 59 60616Z 63646566 67 68 6951071 72*75 5473
wJ, , H i i i I i i— , ., i i 1 i , i i, i—i 1 i ■ i i ■>-!■-*
C £ ClL
ROAD
’ttm [ i i i«i'-[<-
534 33 32 31,30l29;28|Z72625r>23 2221 2019 18117 I6|I5 M 15 12 II I0> 8 ?)« 5 4 5*2 I
4
4Z1
344 4
849,50;5I 52535! 7558 3 7 58 55 60 61 62«64«66t7
L.l.j I I , i . I , I I I 1 I
60,637071 72
i n ;
7374
R OAO
<L9JU
k
Mf
5
ik
- (&
$ -
■*
I*
/
i
AUCTIONEERS
322 GEORGE SI
a LACK HEATH
sra r/oy
*»*J~ £'‘11**0 • C r~0,, m .
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROTAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters of a medical nature
highly interesting- to the sex. Post free in
secure cover, tor Is. lid., money order or N s w
stamps. To be had only from the publisher. " ‘
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 710 G.P.O., Sydney.


BEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARB COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchn, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘ and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Intlrm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
* symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
* dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y., U. S
.A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHAM,
I*
TiilLOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
548, late 531, George-street, Sydney,
Gentlemen,—I respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position iu every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial win suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir.
Tourobedlent Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE.. .. „ .. 3a. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, AC.
„ 43 ERSKINE STREET?.
Void by W. H. aOTTT,. an A all Ohamlat*
Printed and Published by The Bulletin News* 1
paper Co. (Limited). 24 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.8.W.
Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sib,—
I cheerfully add my testimony to the (rood
eflects deriveable from the use of ST, JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife suffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in the legs, in which
case the result was equally beneficial. It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
confidently to ray friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£100.—A Cash Reward of £100 will be paid by the
Charles A. Yogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representstives in various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Half-a-Crown a bottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney.
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
Mb. DeCourct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Minina Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land,
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydnoy,
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles n
speciality.—Advt.
A “Chorus Girl,’’ writing to the Mel-
bourne Hehai-.d, asks, pertinently enough, how it.
is possible (allowing for the extra expenses incl-<
dental to a tra\ oiling troupe) to live and “ keep
straight” on a none too certain salary of thirty
shillings a week. How, indeed ?—
STRAIGHT!
For the sweet little siren who sings on the stage
Your sympathies wo would bespeak—
She is oft of a somewhat susceptible age.
And her screw’s thirty shillings a week;
Which it sometimes occurs that same screw isn’t
paid
(Too often, we’re sorry to state).
So then, all things considered, we’re sorely afraid.
It’s hard for the girl to “ keep straight*”
Some of the dress-circle dudes will recol-
lect Miss Eleanor Carey; though many of them
will probably be too young. Miss Carey and two
other charming girls of an opera company at
Boston were lately presented with valuable
medals, for saving the life of a drowning sailor
while they were yachting in Boston Harbour.
This will make elegant Eleanor more popular than
ever. When here she was worshipped, and In
Melbourne (sweet Galatea) the eye-glass section of
the community idolised her more than anything
on earth—next to themselves. And this presenta-
tion at Boston reminds us of how old “Milky
White” jarred those loving dudes with a cruel,
cruel jar. Thus. Miss Carey was closing a long
and starry engagement at the Royal, and the
heart-sick hobbledehoys couldn’t bear to let her
go without knowing all the harm she’d done.
So they clubbed together all the money they
could raise, and bought a diamond suite of jewel-
lery fit for a queen—or Eleanor—and fetched it to
the theatre on closing night. But they quarrelled
as to who was the fittest dude to present It. The
moment drew nigh, and the dispute showed no
sign of settlement, when Coppin appeared, of
course, he was glad to see his pretty star
honoured ; but he hadn’t the slightest intention of
having any stammering nincompoop on his stage,
making an ass of himself. So the wily one smiled,
and ia his cheeriest tone observed : “ O, we can
manage it to please everyone, I think, if you will
just leave it to me. Step in hero, young gentle-
men, and we’ll—oh I there, I’m called. Excuse
me, I’ll be back in one moment ,” and boxing
the dude brigade into a side room, he disappeared.
But he turned the key on the outside. Then he
led the lovely and much-loved Eleanor to the
front, and in one of the neatest little speeches on
record, presented the jewels to her himself. He
sent some one else to let the nudes out.
Adelaide's “ f j’bbabson” reports that the
ghost of a dece aged squatter has been seen by
two persons ca’ sorting around the purlieus of the
town of Wellin gton (that deadly lively town upon
tho banks of 4 c he Macquarie), carrying a red hot
cattle brand ir v i,i 8 hand. This (If true) is certainly
a case, a ver y strong case, of the ruling passion
strong in de a th ; yet, as perchance It might be a
living squat* „er masquerading as a ghost, we would
strongly ad v i 8e Wellington stockowners to have
an eye at of JC e to their unbranded calves and foals.
During last November a certain Prt-lsnng
(a rank ir i the Chinese army corresponding to that
of sergef m t in our service) got into a dispute at
Haisng-7 with the doorkeeper of the District
Magistr ate’s yamen. Yes, as you have already
divined t it was about a girl. Result, the Pa-tsung
conyiC C ed by the magistrate of assault, and sent
up for a dose of corporal punishment. Apres, the
Pa-tS’ mg successfully prosecutes the doorkeeper
befoi -e a military tribunal, and gets him a taste of
the 1 a8 h. Next the District Magistrate, enraged at
this treatment of hisiservant, reports the matter
to t he Prefect, and while these two were delibe-
raf mg as to the course to he pm-sued, they received
no’ ws that the soldiers belonging to the sergeant’s
re girnent were besieging tire District Magistrate’s
V< emeu, and threatening to tear down the building
0 a account of the insult one of their number had
1 eceived in that place. And then tire Commander-
‘ in-Chiof of the troops in Hupei had to call out all
the garrison of Haisng-yaug to qneil the distur-
bance. Thus do dire events from small occasions
spring—as it was in the beginning, and will be
without a doubt in secula secular urn.
The manner of speaking cultivated by Mr.
Call, P.M. of the Melbourne City Court, im-
presses tho hearer with a grave and solemn interest
in his general welfare. He looks at the prisoner
from under motionless eye-lashes, and, with a
slight inclination of tho head, says—“G’ up for
fourteen days.” There is a melody and sweetness
in the voice that must go far to compensate the
prisoner for his brief deprivation of liberty.
“ G ’ up!" It is ou record that men have done some
little trifle merely to he placed before him, and to
drink in the music of that touching monosyllable.
Although a monosyllable, Mr. Call makes sweet
division in it, and, starting on a B flat, modulates
it on by semitones till he works himself to silence
on a D flat. There appeared to be a certainty that
if duty called him, Mr. Call would stretch himself
to a big oratorical height, and would move the
surging throng to an enthusiasm not easily held.
The occasion came a few days ago, at the election
of licensing magistrates. When he got up, his
friends lay hack against the rail and waited. He
began—“Gentlemen, I feel it owing to myself—
g'up—I mean, gentlemen, I owe it to myself—
g’up ” “Ob, g’up!” cried profane parties all
about, and the cry became universal, and Mel-
bourne’s greatest orator was no more. This was
not what we expected of Mr. Call. But we’re
nearly always getting what we don’t expect.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Old Pioneer.
There is a gully dark and deep
Where seldom the sun shines—
And rocks are piled there, heap on heap,
And darkly wave the pines.
A shadow sits for ever oh
The gloomy waterhole;
The fish within its waters wan
Are blind as is the mole.
(The fish are blind, aud this, no doubt—
■—.- ’Tis but a hint we fling—
The reason is the hoys about
Lead them out with a string.)
The storm comes down, from stem to crown
Tall trees upon the hill
Shake in their fear, but that black mere
Is dark, aud dank, and still.
This gully though so weird is nigh—
'Tis hut some twelve miles fair
From here as, say, a crow would ny,
if he had business there.
And there within a darksome cave
The pioneer and we
Sat telling stories, gay and grave,
With bold mendacity.
The pioneer, his voice was clear,
And clear was his grey eye,
And round his mouth a amde did veer—
We never could tell why.
But grizzled were his locks of grey,
And knotted was his beard.
And when ho shook his head you’d say
He was a wizard weird.
“ What is your age ?” we said to him—
Ho did not seem three-score—
“ My ago it is ’’—ids voice was grim—
“ Two hundred years and more.
• Two hundred long and weary years,
Lo! I have trod this earth
Just here lie wiped away his tears,
And we restrained our mirth.
« Now, you’ve lived to a good old age,”
Said we, “ in peace or strife.
And your conclusions should be sago
Regarding human life ;
“ Say, had the men of the world’s prime
More muscle, bigger hone "—
“ They had,” he said, “ I mind the time
When I was fifty stone,
“ But that was many years ago—
Three hundred years or more —
We did not contradict him, though
We thirsted for his gore.
“ Then I was in my prime,” went on
The grizzled pioneer,
“ Then lather, I, and brother John
Came down and settled here.
“ You’ve seen up at the house that thing
That looks much like a vat ?
“ We have,” we answered, wondering—
“ Well, that was father’s hat.
•• Ay, those were times, for round here then
The blacks were thick as hec s—
The old original flint-jawed men
As black as night were these.
“ Why, sir,” we said, “all did not die,
Are there not now black men f
“ Ah, yes.” ho answered with a sigh,
“ But they were blacker then.
“ Much hlacaer, and much nimbler, too—
There was Benowie Jack—
He’d throw a spear quite put of view.
And spring and clutch it back.
“ And, if I would blow ray own trump,
I was no laggard loon,
1 could across my shadow jump
On any afternoon.
“ And as for shooting, I could kill.
With my good gun, I trow,
A kangaroo behind a lull
Six hundred years ago.
“ Guns were not known then,” we reply—
He shifted on the shelf—
“ That doesn't count a cent., for 1
Invented one myself.
“ That gun, I called it Wait-a-bit—
’Twas death to each black elf;
Why, you could go to s'eep, and it
Would shoot them by itself.
“ If more of incident you crave
The tale I can increase ’ —
There was but one hole to the cave,
And so we held our peace.
But when we came out to the air—
He adding link to link—
Hard by was a great rock, and there
We flung him from the brink.
Below a deep pool lay ; he rose
Up once, cried to the shore,
“ I can swim anything that flows,”
Then sank to rise no more.
If ever you should pass that cave,
Pray stop and shed a tear
Above his grave, beneath the wave,
The ancient pioneer.
And here the moral waifs for youth,
That lies are only fudge :
Be sure to always toll t ho irut h—
Except ing to a J tidgc.
Old Times.
Mode me not if chastened sorrow
Seeks relief in tears —
Brother Dick’s been dead to-morrow
’Xaotly t wenty year s.
Twenty years—’tis past believing—
Time so long has tied,
Since I sat alone and grieving
O’er my brother dead.
Brother Dick—a line young fellow—
Hardly in his prime.
Left us when the corn was yellow,
In the harvest time.
We were in the fields together—
Not a soul was near—
When I asked my brother whether
He would “ shout ” some beer.
But his hasty, stern replying
“ No ” aroused my rage—
’Twas the cause of ilicbard dying
At bis early age ;
For, without a word of warning,
I laid Richard low ;
Someone found him in the morning.
Still and cold, you know.
Meanwhile, cowed with consternation
I had run away ;
And they hanged a near relation
For my crime, they say.
Twenty years ago, to-morrow I
Since that wretched deed
Plunged me, for a while, in sorrow—
Time Hies fast, indeed 1
Grandpapa's “Stories.”
[BY ONE WHO DOESN'T BELIEVE 'EM.]
Mv grandpapa’s grey and my grandpapa’s gouty.
And he waxes uncommonly weak,
But of gay escapades, and of deeds verydoUghty
My grandpapa’s given to speak.
He delights to hold torth on his gallantries dearly,
They trippingly roll from his tongue ;
If the half are but true, oh I he must have been
really
A deuce of a fellow when young.
He’s “ down ” upon me as a regular masher—
Professing contempt for my style ;
And discussing his youth, says that he was a
“dasher”
(At which I km given to smile).
It is grandpapa’s wish, I can see very clearly,
The while his achievements are sung,
That all should Accept him as having been really
A deuce of a fetloV when young.
But I’m sceptical, Defjy, ot grandpapa’s stories
(Which, so is my grandma, likewise),
And Fve come to Imagine that grandpapa glories
In telling a parcel of lies.
Last night he got saying that I wasn’t nearly
The fellow that he was when young ;
8e I told him distinctly I thought he was really
The biggest old liar unhung.
A CONVERSION.
Parson (bailed up): “Oh, my friend, pause, we beseech you, and let us pray to-
gether for
Bushranger (softened): “Pray! Well, look here, begin at the t’other end o’ the
Service. I’ll take up a collection!”
