

THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 56.—New Series
SATUBDAY, JUNE 7, 1884.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 7, 1884.
Malthus versus Gaorge.
WE were somewhat entertained, a little
time back, by the publication, in the S.M.
Herald, of a paragraph, clipped from a
letter by the London correspondent of the
Melbourne Argus, in which that corre-
spondent airily disposed of Mr. Henry
George by remarking that Mr. George has
altogether overlooked the circumstance,
that, even were his plan carried into effect,
of making rent of land the property'of the
State, and thus conferring ease upon entire
populations, the natural tendency of popu-
lations to increase would speedily reduce all
to the point of misery whence the most
wretched had started. This was stated in
all seriousness, and reprinted by the Herald
with tacit endorsement. And it would de-
cidedly have been a crushing disposal of Mr.
George and his theories, but for one circum-
stance. The statement of fact was abso-
lutely and ridiculously untrue. Its publica-
tion merely proved that neither the man
who wrote, the Argus editor who published,
nor the S.M. Herald editor who republished
it, could have read the work it purported to
criticise. All the parties concerned in the
publication and diffusion of that paragraph
exposed equally their ignorance and their
prejudice. We will try to make this
matter clear to Bulletin readers.
♦ * *
The fact is that the assertion made in the
paragraph referred to blundered curiously
near a vital point. It asserted, in a round-
about way, that Mr. George had not taken
into his reckonings the Theory of Popula-
tion as [promulgatediby Malthus, and sub-
sequently endorsed by John Stuart mill
(venerated name), and other writers on
Political Economy. Now, the truth is, that
out of the ten books into which Mr.
George’s work, “ Progress and Poverty,” is
divided, one—Book II.—is specially devoted
to a critical examination of that alleged
tendency of population to increase beyond
the means of subsistance, and to an elabor"
ate argument that Malthus was wrong in
his theory, and Mill and others mistaken
in adopting that theory. This demonstra-
tion is, in fact, the very base and foundation
of all George’s system and argument. In-
stead of having overlooked it, it was the
first thing he grappled with, his initial Book
being chiefly devoted to a definition of terms
and the statement of sundry axioms to be sub-
sequently used in course of argument. Book
II. deals with “ Population and Subsistance,”
and is subdivided into four chapters, as fol-
low:—Chap. i., The Malthusian Theory—its
genesis and support; chap, ii., Inferences
from Fact; chap, iii., Inferences from Ana-
logy; chap, iv., Disproof of the Malthusian
Theory. In short, instead of Henry George
having, a« the Argus and S. M. Herald
ignorantly published, overlooked the Mal-
thusian theory, he had perceived the ob-
struction it created to any and every plan
for ameliorating the condition of mankind;
had studied it with close and earnest atten-
tion; and had, as the basis of all his succeed-
ing propositions, offered a demonstration
that the theory he is accused of not having
considered is false and incorrect.
• « •
We have said that all M!r. George’s sub-
sequent propositions arre based on this alleged
disproof by him of the Malthusian doctrine*
This brings things to a critical point. If Mal-
thus be correct after all, then Mr. George’s
proposals for the removal of poverty and the
amelioration of the human race are built
upon sand —are of no value —and probably
mischievous. This is a very serious matter;
and it is really a most convenient thing that
it can be argued out on a definite issue.
Does population inevitably outgrow the
means of subsistence unless artificially
checked, or does it not ? Malthcs main-
tains the affirmative; George argues for the
negative. It is quite impossible for us, with
the space at our command, to give even a
synopsis of the arguments on either side.
Readers must master these for themselves.
All we intend just now to state is a series of
consequences supplied—first by Malthus,
and secondly by George, according to the
system of each. If Maethus be correct)
then clouds veil the face of Heaven. A
Merciless Creator looks down in sublime
indifference upon an unhappy race of His
creatures, of whom the greater number
are doomed to toil and suffering, and
a multitude to misery of such bitterness
as can scarcely be conceived—the misery of
wretches perpetually quivering on the verge
of destruction by famine, violence, or diS
seases produced by, or rendered fatal by,
want. If Malthus be correct, irregularities
of condition are ordained by Heaven, and
all would famish together were equality in-
sisted upon. According to Malthus, there
are but three checks to population, viz.,
moral restraint, vice, and misery. Mr.
Malthus was a clergyman of the Church of
England, and his proposed remedy was, of
course, moral restraint. The form recom-
mended, and advocated with satisfaction by
the school which he founded among the
comfortable classes, was that, in proportion
as a man was poor, he should abstain from
marriage, or at least from procreation. In
brief, his preposition was that when fortune
had denied to a man the enjoyments of
affluence, rank, consideration, and ease, and
had instead heaped upon him care, want,
penury, insult, and toil, he should crown his
miseries by denying himself the pleasures of
wedlock and the joys of paternity. Failing
that, he was taught that Providence had
other terrors as inevitable alternatives. The
catalogue is a grievous one. Redundant
humanity was to be kept down by “un-
wholesome occupations, severe labour, and
exposure to the seasons, extreme poverty,
bad nursing of children, great towns,'' ex-
cesses of all kinds, the whole train of epi-
demics and diseases, wars, plagues, famines,
promiscuous intercourse, unnatural passions)
adultery, and improper arts to conceal the
consequences of irregular connections.” It
is worthy of notice here that Malthus has
the ardent support of the majority of the
clergy, of Mr. Bbadlaugh, and of Mrs.
Besant. The doctrine that it is the duty of
the poor to abstain from wedlock and
parentage is one much insisted upon by
clerical visitors of the slums and cottages of
England, and has, of course, done much to
endear religion to the distressed classes. Mr.
Bradlaugh and Mrs. Besant, however, im-
agined that modern physiological discoveries
had supplied a remedy more just and equal
than a moral restraint to be exercised only
by those whose entire life was one long
penance; and, so believing, undertook,
in what they believed were the inter-
ests of humanity, to disseminate those
physiological facts, which, according to the
view of Malthus, would, if acted upon,
avert from mankind all the catalogue of
horrors we have quoted above. There was
true heroism in the attempt, no doubt. It
involved a frightful self-sacrifice —to the
woman, at least. Both had to face the
ordeal of a criminal prosecution, and to sus-
tain life-long obloquy as disseminators of
what was stigmatized as foul, and immoral
literature. Posterity will perhaps do justice
in this matter. To expect it of contempor-
ary opinion would be vain.
* * ♦
Such are the fruits of the doctrine of
Malthus. A world perpetually scourged.
For the poor no hope. For the wealthy no
reason for exercising charity, or pretending
a pity which the Almighty himself had not
deigned to show. On the other hand,
Henry George stands forth with his denial
that population does increase, under the
most favourable circumstances, faster than
the means of subsistence. Let his view be
correct, and straightway the heavens open;
a Benignant God smiles upon all His crea-
tures ; Hope blesses the earth; Charity be-
comes a duty; self-denial is a virtue once
more; the catalogue of horrors fades out of
the Book of Fate; the brooding spectre,
Misery, which Malthus had raised as a per-
petual terror to mankind, skurries gibbering
into oblivion, like a ghost at the first celes-
tial refulgence of a dawning day. All crea-
tion, till then dumb with the chill horror of
the Malthusian gospel, breaks into hymns
of joy and adoratioh, as the pitiless Deity
depicted by Malthus vanishes, and the Just
and Loviog God portrayed by George is
disclosed in all His majesty.
M • •
Each system demands a present sacrifice
to satisfy its exigencies. The system of
Malthus requires the sacrifice of all happi-
ness, comfort, and even decency, by the
larger proportion of human beings, genera-
tion after generation, so long as the world
endures. Only the wealthy are exempt from
any duties—any demand for
To alleviate poverty, to relieve distress, is
equivalent to intensifying it; for misery-
alone, and only the intensest misery, will
restrain mankind from breeding and rearing
additions to the population—mouths to eat
bread that earth cannot yield. These are
sacrifices which “society" submits to with
complacency. It is “the established order
of things,” and to seek to disturb it is a folly
and a crime. George’s system also demands
a sacrifice. The fortunate class of people
who have monopolised the face of the earth
are required to relinquish their advantage.
They are not asked to abstain from domestic
joys They are not asked to fester with
their babes in putrid alleys. They are not
asked to endure, till death releases them,
all the bitterness of war, and famine, and
plague. That is what the Malthusian de-
mands of the poor. The over-rich are re-
quired by George’s system merely to be
satisfied to enjoy with the rest of humanity
a moderate and decent comfort, which, ac-
cording to his demonstration, th® earth is
capable of yielding to all its probable in-
habitants till this great globe shall dissolve
and pass away.
* * *
Now, we do not know that George is right
and Malthus wrong. We are not sure that
either position can be absolutely demon-
strated to be correct. Considering the im-
portance of the point, we confess we should
have wished had Mr. George dealt with it
even more exhaustively than he has done.
His proofs certainly seem conclusive. But
the proof in this particular is essential to
the whole of his argument. If it could be
shown that mankind must, under normal
conditions, increase by even one single indi-
vidual in a century faster than the means
of subsistance can be augmented, Malthus
is right in fact, and George is wrong; for
I the time, although remote, is, in that case*
MR. MICHAEL DAVITT, THE IRISH LEADER,


U B L I C
N 0 T I 0 E
, 1 CO.’S
BRIAN BORU
WjHjlSsK
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THB
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severs,
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported In enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, ana 'TH0LE8OMB.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, 'in. great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a Arm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY Is unequalled In this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Distillers, Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BRIAN BORU
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & 00.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 36 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
MF" PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6S. PER IMPERIAL QUART-
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Bepartmont,
MARKET BTSBBT,
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
OO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
Sd.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
BED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler;.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
Is sold in this department.
Thb most Wholesome of all Bbvsragss.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
Is. 6d. per bottle.
0LTNELI8H WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
YERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle),
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGBB PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HBNNESST’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDT,-
6s. fld. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
£Market Street, Sydney,
The hon. secretaries of the Gospel Tem-
perance Mission have conveyed a vote of thanks
to the D.T. for its zeal in advocating the good
cause. Quit® right, too. Few persons have worked
so hard to put down strong drink, on every occa-
sion that offered, as the philanthropic staff of the
Daily Tot has done.
inevitable, when there will be more men
than subsistence, and when the population
checks must come into operation. We think
George has broken up Maethus. If this be
the case, the rest of his theories are irresist-
able. We is right. The fortu-
nate classes so powerfully repr3sented by
the great organs of opinion—the wealthy
daily papers—hope he is wrong. Not only
that, but their wish anticipates their know-
ledge. They declare he must be wrong.
The reason of the difference in hope is this.
That, if George be correct, the future is full
Of hope, and the love of God will naturally
come to every heart. Whereas, if Malthus
be correct, the wealthy are confirmed in
selfishness ; and misery and alienation from
the Almiqhtt is the ordained fate of more
than half the human race. For these rea-
sons wo) try to discover facts to bear out
George, while Wealth and Selfishness
eagerly grasp at any shred of reason to
believe Malthus a true preacher, George a
false prophet, and their own monopoly con-
firmed by Divine ordinance.
Mr. David Buchanan, M.P., and the third
member for Mudgee, has been the central
figure in the Parliamentary disturbance of
the past week. If the Legislative Assembly
would end its sittings at C p.m., and if the
newspapers reported in full the proceedings
of that body up to that hour, Mr. Buchanan
Would fill a large space in the record of its
labours. He has once or twice been known
to sit for a short time after the hour of ad-
journment for tea; but these occasions have
been very rare—only when some more active
political brawler had secured possession of
th e floor, and delayed his inevitable and part-
ing oratorical explosion. The publication of
certain papers relative to the employment
of Mr. Buchanan’s brother in the Custom
House has given the public the advantage
of knowing that the third member for
Mudgee has invariably kept one eye, at
least, on the main chance.
• • •
It is sometimes convenient to have a good
inemory. In this instance it enables us to
head the speeches of last Thursday night in
the light of an old and oft-told tale. Mr.
Buchanan’s denunciation of the Treasurer-
On last Hriday—was but a re-hash of speeches,
having reference to similar charges, made
Upon at least two previous occasions. In
January, 1872, Mr. Buchanan delivered him-
self in precisely similar language to that
used on Thursday. The object of his attack
on that occasion was Mr. —now Sir Henry —
Barkis; and the casus belli , the unfortu-
hate Mr. Lours Buchanan and another rela-
tive—the former having been unsuccessfully
nominated for a vacant Clerkship of Petty
Sessions or a Police Magistracy, which,
however, owing to his brother’s ill-
fid vised advocacy, he did not obtain.
» m
On the present occasion, with the scent of
ftn old war-horse, Mr. David Buchanan, then
supporting the Government, discovered pro-
motion and high remuneration afar off, con-
sequent upon certain Tariff proposals of
the Treasurer. And the papers read in
the Assembly inform us that Mr. David
made straight tracks for the Treasury the
morning following the Financial Statement.
Here the veil falls, and we know only from
the Treasurer’s statement, which is traversed
by Mr. Bit chan an, what took place. Mr,
Bibbs affirmed that Mr. Buchanan fought
and struggled for a rich promotion for his
brother, which, had it fallen into his mouth,
would have rivettedhim to the Government
for ever. Of course that conversation was
not reduced to writing. We only know
again, by reference] to the papers, that Mr.
Buchanan rushed to the Collector of Cus-
toms, and soundly rated that worthy officer
for not valuing Mr. Louis Buchanan’s ser-
vices at his brother’s estimate. In the end,
Mr. Louis Buchanan missed the chance,
Solely owing to his brother’s greed, with the
fesult that Mr. Buchanan went straight to
the platform of the Political Reform League,
the very next night, and vented nis wrath
and righteous indignation upon the head of
the Treasurer. The next sitting day found
him in the arms of the Opposition, and an
avowed opponent of all taxation, and deter-
mined to thrust this “ imbecile Government
from office.”
* =K *
The Colonial Treasurer, however, had
made a mistake, which, in the end, practi-
cally resulted in Mr. Buchanan remaining
master of the field of disputation. Mr.
Dibbs laid too much stress upon the
papers relating to the matter, and raised
too high an expectation of what these
would prove. They proved a good deal,
in fact, but they did not prove what
the Treasurer chiefly promised, that
Mr. Buchanan had offered his political
allegiance as the consideration for his
brother’s promotion. Reading between the
lines, it is pretty clear that no member of
the Assembly would be likely to be so press-
ing unless an implied contract to serve the
Minister who would oblige him were under-
stood. But Mr. Dibbs led the country to
believe that, for once, such a contract, or
offer of contract, had oeen reduced to writ-
ing. This was not the case; and the contrast
between Mr. Dibbs’ description of what the
correspondence would prove and what it
actually did prove was so disappointing that
Mr. Buchanan, wounded and smirched as he
was by the encounter and actual disclosures,
was enabled, by a small exercise of
to pose as a man maligned.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Fair Play.
THti Edao bewails the election to the Assembly of
Mr. Luscombe. Th at is, of course, because Mr. Lus-
COMBE is a political heretic. He believes in Protec-
tion, docs not believe in Assisted Immigration, and
is besides altogether out of sympathy with the
classes who worship “Proputty.” Well, we ex-
pect to have to differ from Mr. Luscombe most of
the time, but we are not sorry he has gone into
the Assembly. For several reasons. In the first
place, Mr. Luscombe has the courage of his
opinions ; and, as these opinions are not those
which have prevailing acceptance at the present
time, he is entitled to the credit of being
sincere. One can never gauge the sincerity
of public men who simply emphasise their
allegiance to sentiments or ideas which they
know will recommend them to the public. Mr.
Luscombe is, in the second place, a true repre-
sentative, inasmuch as his principles are in har-
mony with the labour party—that is to say, with a
party which is more often humbugged than repre.
sented. How long this sympathy in Mr. Luscombe
may endure the ordeal of his elevation to a position
of influence which previous instances have shown
to offer inducements for sometime demagogues to
hoodwink those who elevated them, and to look
out for No. 1, remains to be seen. Meanwhile,
however, we wish to see Mr. Luscombe afforded—
what we claimed for the present Government at
the outset of their career—a fair trial. We don’t
see the fairness of sneering him down before he
has had a chance to show his quality. Should he
prove a humbug, we shall know how to deal with
him.
Dynamite.
TitE dynamite cowards have again made their
mark, and their handwriting has been full of
character—senseless, pusillanimous, and paltry.
When one contrasts the magnificence of their
declared ultimate purpose with the scale and drift
of their operations, the degree of contempt which
is appropriate to them can be gauged. They have
undertaken to liberate their native country from
a foreign oppiesslon. This is a noble enterprise,
and worthy of operations on a grand and
heroic scale. One thousand devoted men could
accomplish it, even employing the weapons
of despair, dynamite and assassination. But each
of the thousand would have to be in earnest.
Each would require to be really so penetrated by
the sense of his country’s wrongs, and the hope-
lessness of ordinary methods of relief, that he had
become willing to lay down his own life. Three
catastrophes per diem for one year would bring
any despotism to reason. And, with dynamite
alone, a thousand men, inspired by the spirit of
martyrdom, could accomplish three catastrophes
daily.comparedwith which the tremendous outrage
perpetrated by Samson, blinded and coerced by
adversaries too powerful and too sagacious to give
him a chance in fair fight, would be a mere trifle.
But the skulking hounds who hover round kitchens
and urinals, with just so much explosive material
as shall not expose them to the chance of detection,
and just so little as shall fail to produce any really
remarkable effects, are neither patriots, nor mar-
tyrs, nor anything else that is creditable. They
are mere would-be assassins of the cowardliest
type. For the man who hurls a bomb in front of a
(Lesar’s carriage, convinced that the despot’s
death means the emancipation of millions, and pre-
pared to sacrifice his own life in the attempt,
it is possible to entertain a certain respect.
He places his highest stake—his life—on the cause
of what he believes to be “ humanity.” The stake
is his gauge of sincerity. But in a country where
such extreme means are as unnecessary as they
are detestable, the involuntary respect we fee*
towards the self-sacrificing Nihilist, becomes
loathing towards the milk-livered dynamltard.
The gulf between them is as great as between a
Brutus and a Burke. For rendering their
country a by-word among nations, for rivetting
on her the chains of what they are pleased to call
a “ foreign despotism,” no surer means have been
devised than those of O’Donovan Rossa and his
gang. It is the apotheosis of stupidity. Now that the
working classes of Great Britain are beginning to
fall into line with the Irish Nationalists in front of
the common foe, plutocracy, which weighs so
mercilessly on both, the dynamitist steps in and
shatters in a day the rapprochement for which cen-
turies of common suffering had begun to pave
the way. It is this iniquitous hebetude that has
such a tendency to make social and political re-
formers pause in their work. And now we in Aus-
tralia are threatened with a dynamite crusade. We
do not fear it. If the Imbeciles who plan these
things cannot understand that blowing-up the
Sydney Post Office would have about as much
effect in fixing a Parliament in College Green, as
an umbrella in shielding one from a park of artil-
lery, we must look about for means to convince
their dupes that if the destruction of Carlton
Club scullions, and of Australian women and
children is necessary for Irish quasi-indepen-
dence, Ireland had better remain in “ slavery.”
A Mrs. M'Kenna, of St. Arnaud (Vic.), had her
shop burned down some considerable time ago.
The shop and its contents were insured for £450 in
the Tasmanian Fire Insurance Company. Mrs.
M‘Kenna, after making several applications to the
Company for the sum her policy entitled her to,
found it at last necessary to bring the case into
Court. The Company set up various pleas in justi-
fication of their conduct in refusing to pay Mrs.
M’Kenna’s claim, and amongst them is this one,
based on a condition which they affirm exists in
the body of their regulations:—“That she did not
procure a certificate under the hands of the minis-
ter or some other respectable Inhabitant of the
place where the property was situated, importing
that they were well acquainted with the character
and circumstances of the plaintiff, and that they
knew and believed that she really, and by misfor-
tune, and without fraud, had sustained the loss.”
Whether the other pleas filed by the Company will
be able to shield them or not, is a matter for the
Court to determine; but it is difficult to see how
there can be a question as to the presence of de-
ception and trickery In the mind of the office that
got behind the plea quoted above. Mr. Justice
MoleswohTH animadverted severely upon the
constructive shabbiness of relying on such a
plea. Insurance business, as by many com-
panies conducted latterly, is often little more
than a species of Ill-disguised swindling. The
assured is approached by a canvasser. Of course,
books of rules, regulations, tables, and reports are
forthcoming If desired. But only a few of the
persons who take out policies, whether on life or
property, have time to go through the documents.
They accept the agent or canvasser as the repre-
sentative of the Company, and when they receive
a receipt from the head office for the money paid
to him, they consider everything is right. It is
afterwards, sometimes after paying very many
premiums, they become aware that a condi-
tion exists, somewhere In the agreement, where-
by all premiums are forfeited, practically up
to date. Age is, for Instance, a great hold-fast of a
Life Insurance Office. The Company will take
your premiums while you live, just as the agent
accepted your money at first, and all things will
go apparently well till you die. Then only,
your representative will have to provide— proof
that the age you gave was correct. The subject
Is too wide and offers too many points for animad-
version to be handled In short space. But the law
should interpose. Whatever the rules, regulations,
or conditions of a Company be, the law should fix a
term, and the receipt by a Company of a member’s
payment beyond that term should constitute an
Indefeasible title to the value marked on the
policy.
♦
A very happy suggestion in reference to the Re-
cidiviste difficulty was made recently by the Echo.
It was that, now that the French have succeeded
in establishing themselves in Anam, they might
advantageously direct to that territory their ex-
port of relapsed criminals, and leave New Cale-
donia to grow up as a non-penal colony. This Is
an excellent Idea, and we trust the Consul for
Prance will convey it to his Government. And
at the same time It may be suggested that, on
the principle of mutual accommodation, such
a change of policy would facilitate a settle-
ment of the New Hebridean claims. Provided the
Australian colonies were relieved of the anxiety
of having a penal settlement growing up In the
Pacific, they could probably offer no objection to
seal the bargain by waiving all objection to the
annexation of the New Hebrides by the French
nation. There are plenty of intelligent Austra-
lians who would welcome good French colonists
as neighbours in the Pacific, and who see the arro-
gance and folly of pretension by any one nation to
reserve for its own use the entire Archipelago of
the Western Pacific.
♦
Sib H. B. Loch, Governor of Victoria, has been
fed in the presence of 200 “leading” colo-
nists. We hardly know whether to laugh or cry
or swear at the impertinent snobbery of a handful
of people, who, for want of some other way of
redeeming their littleness here, are trying in Eng-
land to eat and write themselves large as the ex-
ponents of the wishes of the Australians. By
measure, there are eight inches of cablegram In
Saturday’s Herald relating to Australian affairs,
and to any man who lives here, and knows how
much we care for “ Rosebery ’’ and his wishes, and
Loch and his desires, and the “leading ” colonists,
who lead nothing, and the possible orations of Jim
Patterson, we need only mark without comment
the arrant foolery which is now rampant in Eng-
land. We, who don't travel, are under the im-
pression that we are able to manage our own
affairs, and also that the taiky-talky about federa-
tion and separation Is nothing more than the topic
of the Gabby-Gab Clubs of Sydney and Melbourne.
But, hear them, and be comforted. Rest, brethren,
and be satisfied. The “ leading ” colonists, the
Governors, and the Roseberys will fix things right
with the “Empire,” now in imminent danger of
smash-up, since Dan Smith's appeal for Tichborno
has merged into a mission for the unemployed;—
“Earl of Rosebery presided. He urged the ne-
cessity of promoting the unity of the empire, while
he also pointed out, with some emphasis, that It
was the duty of a colonial Governor to draw closer
the bonds of Imperial union. Sir H. B. Loch, in
replying, said that the problem how to maintain
the connection between the colonies and the
mother country required early and careful con-
sideration. He promised to use unceasing exer-
tions to encourage sentiments of affection and con-
fidence in the colonies generally towards the mother
country.” And Mr. Murray Smith, to show that
we are not an ungrateful people, “took the oppor-
tunity of thanking him (Rosebery) for the interest
he exhibited in colonial problems.”
“ Some of the men who abuse squatters,” said
the Lycurgus of the Land Act of 1861, “are
not fit to clean their boots.” This may be true
enough; but there are, amongst the people who
feel bitter against the squatters, men who have
had grievances which, if properly redressed by
the land oracle of twenty years, would leave many
a squatter with no boots to clean. It’s all very
well to single out a few noisy brawlers who make
an everlasting noise about their grievances under
the present land system, but that is no reply to
the complaints of tho hundreds of poor, dumb,
helpless fellows who have first of all been tempted
away iritojthe wilds with glowing promises of rail-
ways and roads to come, and then been left to be
fleeced by land agents of their last shilling, while
the legislators who were frenziedly protesting
their eagerness to settle the people on the lands of
the colony have been spending nine-tenths of their
time in a game of political pitch-and-toss for place
and pay. It is in the interests of the latter class
that men, who have the welfare of the country at
heart, are more Inclined to work than in jibing at
notorious grievance-mongers.


Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers: It destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, la.*
Skinny Men —“Wells’ Health Henewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney.
General Agents.
However people dislike to be alone, they
very seldom object to get a loan.
Michael Davitt.
The time and place of Michael Davitt’s birth are
singularly appropriate to the part he has played in
Irish politics. Modern maps of Ireland may mark
the spot in County Mayo where the village of
Straide once stood; but it would take a keen eye
now to detect in the rich pasture a trace of tne
“ mud-walled cabin ” where, in the first year of
the great famine, 1846, Michael Davitt was born.
There is little known of Davitt’s parents, although
his mother and a sister, Miss Sabina Davitt, were
residing near Philadelphia in 1879. In 1848, during
the general clearance effected by the landlords,
Davitt’s father was evicted from his small farm at
Straide. The family next appear at Haslingden,
near Manchester, and the future agitator was
tender in years whan necessity demanded his em-
ployment in a factory. Here he met with an acci-
dent; his right arm was crushed in the machinery,
and had to be amputated at the shoulder. A sad
mishap, truly; but not so full of evil consequence
to this lad of ten as mUht at first be imagined.
Factory work being out of the question, the next
five years of young Davitt’s life were spent in
the Wesleyan school at Haslingden. Youth will
fashion Itself to the bitterest fate, Davitt,
despite his disfigurement, was, at fifteen, the
smartest lad in school. He was appointed as-
sistant letter-carrier, kept the books of a printing-
office, and used his spare hours to such advantage
that he became a tolerably efficient compositor.
This will be incredible to those who know not
what desperate resolution, stimulated by poverty
and strengthened by pluck and intelligence, can
sometimes accomplish. Seven years did Davitt
remain discharging his triple duties—an Interval
in which he thought and read a good deal about
Irish affairs. In his own person he felt the wrongs
of his race: for his father had died, and to maintain
-the family his mother begged bread in the streets
of more than one English town, Davitt’s passion-
less recital *f this sad story has more than once
flooded the eyes of his audiences; yet how terrible
.the humiliation must have been to him, few will
ever learn. The hopes which had been shattered
in the collapse of the ’48 movement were springing
anew in Ireland as Davitt grew to manhood. This
time they found shape in the Phoenix (later on, the
‘Ionian) Conspiracy, with circles of which the three
kingdoms were being rapidly honeycombed. Davitt
■was not the man to close his ears to the fierce
appeals with which Fenian literature rung. He
joined the brotherhood, and soon became known
one of the most daring and despeiiate of the
band. Though 1868 saw most of his chiefs and
comrades in prison or in exile, though the terrible
snows of the previous winter had smothered every
trace of trouble in Ireland, Michael Davitt’s ac-
tivity in organising, examining, and preparing
was in no degree lessened. The result may be
guessed. English detectives are keen - scented;
and Davitt was brought to bay in May, 1870,
arraigned before a London jury for treason-
felony, convicted, and sentencad to 15 years’ penal
servitude. The trial furnished a novel example of
his self-sacrifice. A gunsmith, named John Wil-
son, an Englishman, and totally unconnected with
the conspiracy, was convicted with Davitt, receiv-
ing a sentence of seven years. This sentence,
Davitt asked the Court to add to his own, adding
that Wilson had a large family to maintain. The
Judge complimented the Irish convict, but, of
course, refused his request. Newgate, Millbank,
Dartmoor, and Portsmouth, were in turn the
prisons where Mr. Davitt expiated his “ crime,”
and notwithstanding that he was a purely political
prisoner, he received the treatment of an ordinary
convict. It is hard to believe, at this time of day,
that human beings were subjected to such usage
as Mr. Davitt subsequently related on oath, before
a committee of the House of Lords. Skipping his
grim recital of the long hours of exhausting
labour, the filthy, ill-ventilated cells, we quote
Mr. Davitt’s words on a single detail of prison life.
He says: “It was quite a common occurrence in
Dartmoor for men to be reported and punished
for eating candles, boot oil, and other repulsive
articles; and, notwithstanding that a highly offen-
sive smell is nurposely given to prison candles, to
prevent their being eaten instead of burned, men
are driven, by a system of half-starvation,
into a condition of animal-like voracity, and
anything that a dog would eat is nowise re-
pugnant to their taste. I have seen men eat old
poultices found buried in heaps of rubbish that I
was assisting in carting away, and have seen bits
of candle pulled out of the prison cesspool and
eaten after the human soil was wiped off them.”
After 7j4s years of convict existence, Michael
Davltt stepped out into the free air of England a
week before Christmas, 1877, on a ticket-of-leave.
With three other released prisoners he proceeded
to Ireland, and was given a public reception in
Dublin. Mr. Parnell was chairman of the com-
mittee, and here the two Irish leaders met for the
first time. After a short sojourn in his native
Mayo, Davitt went to America, met most of those
revolutionists who took refuge there ; and in the
ollowing December, in a lecture in Boston,
sketched the platform on which the future Land
League was based. Returning to Ireland, he
organised several anti-rent meetings in Con-
naught in the spring and summer of 1879; was im-
prisoned in Sligo by the Tory Government, and
released on bail. The prosecution was afterwards
abandoned, but meanwhile, on the 21st October,
Davitt founded the Irish National Land League in
Dublin, he himself becoming secretary, and Par-
nell president. Davitt visited America again, in
1880, met Mr. Henry George in New York, and has
ever since manfully championed the principles of
Hrogi’ess and Poverty.” In February, 1881,
Sir W. Vernon Harcourt revoked Davitt’s
ticket-of leave, and the agitator was re-com-
mitted to Portland prison, from which he
was released on the 6th May, 1882. A word
as t© personal characteristics. Mr. Davitt
is a man of considerable culture, and of wide sym-
pathies. He has been termed “a soldier of
humanity,” and in his speeches he tells the Irish
frankly that theirs is no exceptional grievance;
that the masses in England and Scotland suffer
equally with them under the present land system.
With the English wording men, consequently,
Davitt is exceedingly popular. Being a close ally
of Mr. George’s, Davitt sometimes finds himself at
issue with Mr. Parnell and other compromising
spirits in the Irish camp. While in prison, in the
early part of 1882, Davitt was elected unopposed
for Co. Meath, but was declared disqualified. In
any case, he would not sit in the House, and he is
known to hold very dubious opinions of the sin-
cerity and hona fldes of some of Mr. Parnell’s party.
Davitt speaks with a alight tinge of "the brogue,”
but with much distinctness and force. He has
the true oratorical faculty of Imparting his own
feelings to an audience, and is possessor of that
rare faculty (at least amongst Irishmen) of combin-
ing logical exactitude with eloquence and enthusi-
asm. Some of his addresses, especially in the com-
mencement of the agitation, sounded to Irish ears
like a call to arms. In his essays (most of which
are of an ephemeral character) he is not quite so
happy or so persuasive. While in prison he wrote
some'verses in a rather mournful strain, but there
is nothing in them worth remembering. Mr.
Davitt is yet unmarried, and (we sigh for the
ladies) has often declared his intention of always
remaining a bachelor. Mr. Davitt may, we
believe, be shortly expected to visit Australia.
We went to the Metropolitan Liedertafel
smoke-night concert at theMasonloHall.Pitt-street,
Monday night, for a little while, and got up next
morning with an awful headache. The songs were
right enough for the most part, and we would
rather listen to them than to the cats in our back-
yard after nightfall. The smoke wasn’t particu-
larly bad, either; but, unlike most concerts of this
description, the affair didn’t end in smoke. In
fact, we don’t exactly remember what it did end
in, for, along about the middle of it, everything
looked double, and the celling seemed bowing to
us with the utmost politeness. That is probably
what made us notice now conspicuous Sir Pat was
by his absence. Other members might have passed
for the unemployed agitators that gather so often
about the Albert Statue. It seemed to us that Mr.
Alpen’s baton was out of tune, or something, and
he didn’t seem able to pound “ The Devil’s Dream ”
out of the performers the way our feet wanted
it. About this time, too, we noticed that Mr.
Clancy’s hair hadn’t been cut for several weeks or
so, and a Hea bit us into wakefulness again. We
liked Mr. Walcot’s baritone song “At Bay.” This
is a rising young singer, whom we were confidently
assured by one of the guests would be fit for the
Sydney Liedertafel after he gets ripe. After the
second Interval we noticed that Adam had written
a song entitled “ Comrades in Arms.” We didn’t
know before this that Adam had ever written
anything except “ Pass the apples, Bve, my darl-
ing, ’ but we don’t know everything it seems.
Along in the course of the evening, Mr. G. R.
Dibbs, president of the society, presented Herr
Hugo Alpen with a gold-mounted ebony baton,
and some speeches followed, the gist of which we
stirred into the water and other ingredients that
filled our “flowing gobllng.” Taken altogether,
the evening was very pleasantly passed; and as we
fell over the wheelbarrow in our back yard, and
the dog bit us just where it would have done a
burglar t he most good, we fervently vowed that
we wouldn’t have missed it for a whole back-block.
Progress!


Personal Items
Weston, the pedestrian, is going to get a
testimonial in money from the temperance people
at home. He has completed his walk of five thou-
sand miles—fifty miles a day without stimulants.
This is felt to be a great victory for the sarspa-
frilla cause. We wish them joy of it, Weston will
probably bo walking on his hands for a month
after he receives his testimonial.
George Nelson’s aunt of Greenhead (Eng.)
kept a pub. George liked his aunt a little, and
her liquor a great deal. So George thought the
best thing he could do would be to marry her.
And he did. And now a British bench is in a fix
as to whether a man can or cannot legal! v marry
his aunt. Pending this, although George’ has got
the transfer of his aunt, he can’t get the transfer
of the license.
Our old friend Plummer gave a lecture on
“ Ornamental Brasswork,” the other night. Great
an authority as he should be on this subject, his
lecture was generally considered incomplete and
unsatisfactory. He made no quotations from the
speeches of either Dan. O’Connor or David Bu-
chanan. And without these two. Ornamental
Brasswork would be no more than a shadowy tra-
dition of a lost art.
When Blue Ribbon Booth touched for that
£435 odd, offered him as honorarium for some few
hours of twaddle and rant, he came to the con-
clusion that he had never or hardly ever had a
mission better arranged than the one he had con-
ducted in Sydney—which was a way of expressing
his opinion that, for sheer silliness and get-at-
ableness by the goody-goody platform joker, the
evangelicals of Sydney take the cake.
Here is a miraculously appropriate coinci-
dence. There is a Mr. Poett living at Rum
Jungle in the Northern Territory. Would you
have believed it if anybody else had told you ? We
take it to be an omen. It is evident to us that we
must look to Rum Jungle for our Australian
Shakspeare. If Mr. Poett does not fulfil our ex-
pectations, then his advantages of name and
gjace of residence have been thrown away upon
Sir Patrick A. Jenning’s on philosophy.
Speaking at Waverley the other night. Sir Patrick
referred to “the great wave of materialistic
thought which now rolls over the Christian world.
In philosophies as early as Plato, or as late as
Auguste Comte or Herbert Spencer.” This is a
palpable bid for the taking-in-hand of Herbert
Spencer, when he comes out. We are waiting to
hear what Dan O’Connor has to say about Plato.
Probably Dan will discover that Plato was an
Orangeman.
8. D. Edwards, a Yankee judge, has his
eyes In the roof of his skull. At least he can decipher
any writing placed on the top of his head. And
what is more, this writing may be enclosed in a
sealed envelope, and the judge's cranial eyes will
read it as slick as though it were stuck in big
“pica” straight in front of him. Justice in the
case of Edwards can hardly, with his double-set of
optics, be said to be blind. And he has the bulge
on his brothers, for he can always see double with-
out firing six Inches of whisky down his throat.
Ex-Governor Smith, of Georgia, recently
had the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher for a guest, the
result being that poor old Smith has had to re-
trench and five on soft corn and dried apples since.
Soon after the great prea tier (and eater)
cleared, a friend called round and asked the half-
starved ex-Governor if the man of God was still
hearty. “ Hearty!” roared the Georgian, “ by the
crucified Columbus! if he had been at the loaves
and fishes miracle on the mount, there wouldn’t
have been enough fragments left to stuff into a
baby’s boot, let alone twelve picnic baskets.”
“Every time I take a glass of beer it goes
Into my head,” said Biddy Consick to her old ac-
quaintance, Mr. Call, the very last time she met
him at the Melbourne City Court. “ Then you’ve
no business to take a glass of beer, and you’re
fined forty shillings,” said his Worship. The un-
feeling rejoinder of the remorseless Call reminds
us of that old story about Dr. Abernethy and his
orotehetty lady patient. “Oh, doctor I” said the
fair one, “ 1 have such a nasty pain when I put my
arm like that,” and she stuck it out in the sort of
position that’s assumed by the “ heaps of slain ” in
Elizabeth Thompson’s battle pieces, “ Then, my
good woman, don’t put your arm like that,” said
Abernethy.
William B. Freebairn, an ex-telegraph op-
erator, of Sandhurst, who, after seducing his girl,
airily told her that “ if she was a girl of spirit, she’d
drown herself, and get them both out of their
trouble,” is wanted for bigamy. By the way, in
one of the godly epistles he wrote to his victim,
he expressed a wish to “ meet her in heaven ” (so
as to have an opportunity of introducing her to
his brace of wives, probably), but there seems just
u doubt as to whether the happy re-union will ever
take place. William’s rather suggestive surname
Beems to have been against him through life, poor
fellow, and to have influenced him in his actions,
somewhat. How could you expect a man with
such a cognomen to be other than giddy in his
relations with the fair sex ?
Respecting the immunity with which
Lady Stradbroke, who wrote the par. for which
Edmund Yates is sentenced to four months, has
©scaped, Laboucluire writes to Yates:—” But if you
deserve four months’ imprisonment, assuredly
Lady Stradbroke deserves four years’ imprison-
ment. Is there one law for ladies of title and an-
other law for Journalists without title? May a
,ady of title manage to slip a libel of a relative
‘nto a newspaper without punishment, and yet
ought the editor whose confidence she has betrayed
to be punished ? Is this privilege of peerage, or
are we confronted with the fact that in the opinion
of a peer what is infamous in so common a crea-
ture as a journalist, is not infamous in a peeress ?
Where is the Public Prosecutor?"
Poor Lady Siradbroke! The London cor-
respondent of the Melbourne Argus, who is
nothing if not excruoiatinglg snobistical, says
that the Court has given the Viscountess the cold
shoulder, and that the people of Marlboi’ough
House have severely cut her because of that little
Libel on Lonsdale which she dished up for Yates.
She certainly committed an offence ; but surely,
surely, to be cold-shouldered by the Court and out
by the Waleses is a punishment out of all propor-
tion to her fault. Why, it’s the same penalty that’s
invariably meted out to any honest, plain-speak-
ing Radical, and Lady Stradbroke hasn’t quite
reached that level yet. Let her libel Bradlaugh
next time, and then at at. James’s and Marl-
borough House she will once again be a persona
grata.
Petti tt, the dramatist never develops his
dramatis pei'son® at the same place. The villain
he works out at home, his hero at Broadstairs, hia
heroine at Bournemouth, his low comedy man at
Margate, and his light comedy lady at Brighton.
He always wears a billycock hat and shepherd s
plaid trousers when writing pathos, and a set of
cricketing flannels whett writing humour. When
constructing his story he tries it on the driver of
the Haverstock-hill omnibus, telling him the story
as an actual fact within his own knowledge. What
the busman doesn’t understand he explains, and
by explaining to the busman explains to himself
and to his audience. It is only fair to say that
since the climax of one act so affected a driver
that he fell off the box in a fit, and Pettitt had to
drive the ’bus to St. Martin’s Church himself, this
plan has not been preserved in.
There are two sides to a question at all
times, and frequently five or six. We begin to
think that Lord Garmoyle, though a veal-headed
creature, might not have been all to blame in the
Portescue affair. There are queer stories told
about the behaviour of Miss Portescue when she
lived in the Cairns household. For instance, they
say that she would insist on addressing the grave
ex-Lord Chancellor as ‘‘old chappie that she
opened her eyes with surprise, when Lady Cairns
presented her with a Bible, as though she were a
heathen; that she broke forth into the wor is of a
music-hall song, when a curate was playing a
hymn-tune on the piano; that she came to break-
fast with her hair down, and in a pinafore; and
that she generally opera-bouffed the serious
family, into which she was introduced. Perhaps the
poor thing found life too dull with this sanctified
set. It seems, though, that they did not find life
too dull without her.
Lewis Leland is now in a Lunatic Asylum.
Who was Lewis Leland? He was one of five
brothers who elevated hotel management to the
rank of a science, and controlled some of the
finest hotels in America. There are many people
here in Sydney who remember him when ho first
arrived in San Francisco to manage the Occidental.
He had a magnificent suite of apartments at his
disposal, and the largest salary that had ever been
paid up to that day—this was twenty-five years ago
—to a hotel-superintendent. The ball of fortune
seemed to be at his foot. But luck left him, and
left his brothers, too. They were all clever and
popular fellows, and they went where too many
clever and popular fellows go—to the dogs. George
died suddenly in the West—Horace was struck with
paralysis—Charles had to make an assignment for
the benefit of his creditors—Warren ended in finan-
cial disaster—and Lewis is now a lunatic. So passes
the glory of the world.
More Sensation. Rumour says, another
spelling bee will shortly be held in the Supreme
Court Assembly Rooms, Sydney. One of the prin-
cipal competitors is the redoubtable champion,
and holder of the Bindley Murray belt, Mr. John
Jannery Davis, C.M.G. (colonial-made gentleman),
who has challenged Mr. James Kidman, of this
city, to a tussle for £1000 a side. This match, we
believe is the result of certain political and alleged
libellous taunts thrown out by the latter worthy
against the fair fame of the phenomenal speller
during the last East Sydney election, and the match
is, of course, exciting the greatest interest in the
sporting world. Persons possessing farthings
would do well to call on Mr. Kidman. In adlition
to his many other honourable titles, Mr. Davies
will soon be able to lay claim to tnat of the cham-
pion LL.D., or Libel L’aw Dealer in all Australia.
As the worthy Spaniard remarked, “ Some persons
wear their honour so fine, that the least thing
which catches a corner is sure to tear it.”
About 10 years ago John W. Mackay was a
working miner in Virginia City. He wasn’t worth
anything, because he was in debt. Mackay and
his three mates drudged drearily along, just doing
enough work to keep their claim from being
jumped, but not enough to pay their store bills.
No one would buy the claim. One day they struck
‘ indications.” Since that day, John W. Mackay
has got £8,000,000, in a round estimate, from the
claim that no one would buy. The bonanza stone in
the Comstock lode sometimes turned out £4800
worth of silver to the ton of stone. At present, John
W. Mackay owns one of the most splendid mansions
of Paris, and 20 miles distant is the summer
chateau, surrounded by its park and estate, where
Mrs. Mackay lives when at home. Mrs. Mackay
used to live, when at home, in a little hairdresser’s
shop outside San Francisco, where her papa cut
hair and was never a bit proud. Her daughter
Eva is not bad-looking, and has numerous suitors
who would not object to trade off a title for some
of her cold American cash. But Miss Mackay
keeps a level head, and makes no sign.
In the death of Salmi Morse, in New York,
ended one of the most peculiar lives of the cen-
tury. He had a hundred eccentricities of char-
acter. It was, perhaps, his misfortune to have had
control of a weekly newspaper, which he filled
with Inconceivably mysterious Oriental plays,
illustrated with weird cuts, and which afforded
him facility for perpetually torturing the English
language, and twisting words into jpuns as unin-
telligible as they were wonderful. But his mania
was the Bible. Being a cultivated, travelled, and
clever man, his biblical studies, mixed with his ex-
tensive knowledge of the Koran, the Holy Land,
and Oriental life, so absorbed him that he became
a monomaniac. For years he seemed only to live
to produce his great “Passion Play,” representing
New Testament scenes. He spent thousands of
pounds on it, was forbidden in town after town to
perform it; and when at last, in spite of prohibi-
tions from the police, he actually started the play,
it was allowed to proceed half through one act,
and then the police stepped on the stage, and Peter
the Apostle and Pontius Pilate, Judas Iscariot and
the maid-servant, and the rest of them, were reso-
lutely run in for blasphemy. It broke him up.
Dr. Bromby, of Melbourne, is to have a
bag of sovereigns because he is seventy-five. Wo
are, as is well-known, over one hundred and twenty
years of age, but the only bag wo are likely to get
is the sack. It will be remembered that the rev.
Dr., some years ago, startled the sleepers by stat-
ing publicly that he didn’t believe in hell, but that
those unfit to twang a harp for ever passed away
into a painless non-existence, leaving the true
believers to thrum away at newer and newer
sheet music for ever and ever. And then he dis-
coursed on the ago of the patriarchs, and took
away hundreds of years from the life of poor old
Methuselah, when he showed that the “ years ” of
the Bible are “periods;” and that, therefore, the
old man who had broken up twelve insurance
societies by allowing his annuity to accumulate at
compound interest for seven or eight hundred
years, was not more than about the age of Sir
Moses Monteflore. We don’t object to the vener-
able old scholar getting a few pounds just now,
but if he only knew how much we want a bit of a
testi In short, we are not in a frame of mind
at present to view this matter with that judicial
firmness without which this journal is nothing.
Poor old Elsasser, the “father of part
songs,” has sung his last song, and now counts his
silent bars’ rests until the trumpet calls for his
next performance. He was a gifted and genial
old man, a thorough lover of his art, and, as a
matter of course, he died in poverty. Help was
started when Death’s icy hand had clasped that of
the poor singer, and it is not to the credit of our
Melbourne enthusiasts to find that even now there
is much unseemly wrangling going on about the
spasmodic attempt which was made to soothe his
last dying hours. Julius Herz seems to have
worked well in the good cause, but from the cor-
respondence published it does not appear that the
Melbourne Liedertafel exerted themselves very
much for the Pean Cantata composer, for Mr Herz
complains as follows “I was Instructed to sup-
ply all the societies with tickets. Amongst others
I sent 100 tickets at 5s., and 100 tickets at 3s. to Mr.
Henne, hon. treasurer of the Melbourne Lieder-
tafel, for distribution amongst its performing
members, on sal© or return. On Saturday I called
for returns, and received back the same number
of tickets as I left with him, viz., 100 at 5s. and 100
at 3s.” This would be considered bad even for dull,
sleepy Sydney.
Mrs. Dugdale, the champion of woman’s
rights in the South, while admitting that there are
members of her sex whose smallness of intellect
can be judged by their monstrosities of body,
nevertheless asserts that for everyone woman fool
she can point to three men fools. Tha trend of an
argument like that sets one’s ears up. Unless it
be mere vapouring, it tucks up its things and
wades right into ocular demonstration. For in-
stance, if you hold the other side of the question,
you give Mistress Dugdale your arm and lead her
to a thoroughfare. You point to a monstrous
bustle, and say “That’s a woman fool!” There-
upon, compelled by the exigencies of her argu-
ment, Mistress Dugdale will point to three men
and say, “ There are three men fools !” And so on
until you can’t see another plethoric bustle. And
you’ll have to give in, and leading. Mistress Dug-
dale from the corner of the parapet will say,
“Yes. I’m licked. For every one woman fool I
pointed to, you pointed to three men fools. You
did, Mistress Dugdale, and you’ve won the argu-
ment.” But at the same time we will inform you
that when you and Mistress Dugdale have come to
this conclusion, and have meandered home, that
corner of that parapet will have lost the two
biggest fools that had been on it all day.
General M‘Ivor, who proposed an expedi-
tion to seize New Guinea, and was discounte-
nanced by the Brltlsn Government, is about to
arrive, or has arrived in Australia, on a lecturing
tour. His remarkable career, which throws that
of Reit-meister Dugald Dalgetty into the shade, is
the subject of a book, “Under Fourteen Flags,”
by Captain L’Estrange. Besides campaigning.
General Ronald MTvor has done some duelling.
He has been “ out ” five times, and on three occa-
sions killed his man. He served in the Indian
Mutiny, in the war of Italian liberation under
Garibaldi, through the most part of the American
War, the Mexican War, the Cuban Insurrection,
the last Carlist War, the risings in Herzegovina
and Servia, and the latter part of the Franco-Prus-
sian War. He has hunted brigands in Greece, and
been hunted by them in Italy. For two days and
nights he has fought with Red Indians, and lived
among them in honourable captivity for four
months. He has been badly wounded several
times; was once nearly blown up by an explosion;
has fought, as we have said, five duels, and been
successful in all; has been fired at across a card-
table; run the blockade twice, experienced sun-
stroke, cholera, and yellow fever, if not quite as
many times as Mr. Bob Sawyer, at any rate, quite
often enough for all practical purposes.
Prince Krapotkine the Socialist who has
sacrificed rank, estate, and liberty in the cause of
humanity, is pretty decently treated in the prison
at Clairvaux, by the French Republic. A corres-
pondent of the World recently visited him there,
and found him in a comfortable little room where
a wood fire burnt briskly on the hearth. Krapot-
kine, whose health is broken by his sufferings in.
and escaping from, Russian prisons, suffers much
from the bleak blasts from the mountains near
Clairvaux, and for days is unable to write.
Besides being master of several languages
and eminent in science, Krapotkine is a
clever amateur artist. He is constant to his
political principles, and declares that if the French
Government were to offer him his pardon he
would not accept it. He is willing to receive
reparation, but not a favour. His wife, who
ardently shares his political ideas, and also his
scientific tastes — having herself graduated in
science at the Geneva University—is occasionally
allowed to visit him. He never signs or calls him-
self “Prince.” Among his friends he is simply
“Peter Krapotkine;” and those who sympathise
least with his quixotic opinions love him for the
nobility of his nature and the loftiness of his alms,
and they believe him to be one of the bravest and
most faithful souls of the present time.
Lottie Wilmot, the well-known leoturess
on social and spiritualistic subjects, passed away
to the shining shore, after a long and painful illness
endured with calm fortitude, at her residence,
near Wellington, N.Z. Poor Lottie made a great
mistake m remaining too long in New Zealand.
The climate was too boisterous and changeable for
her health, and the people she came in contact
with were too selfish and grasping to givo her a
chance of succeeding in her mission. She was far
too honest and plain spoken to be regarded with
favour by the goody-goody holders of the purse
strings and pubuc halls of New Zealand. A laugh-
able Incident occurred last winter at Wellington
during the sitting of Parliament. Some member
gave Mrs. Wilmot a pass for the ladies’ gallery.
The Wellington matrons were awfully shocked
and scandalised at the intrusion—or pretended to
be. Smelling bottles and looks of indignation
availed them nothing. Had Mary Magdalen ap-
peared among them, they could not have been
more put about; and as Lottie would not budge,
they gathered their skirts and daughters together
and fled. Alas ! when they go to Heaven what a
bitter pill it will be for them to find Lottie and
Joan of Arc sitting together on a front seat in the
celestial circle. One thing, however, connected
with Mrs. Wilmot’s departure we record with
Ifleasure. During her last Illness she was sedu-
ously attended to by a good Presbyterian minister
and his wife.
“ John Harris, the excellent Cornish poet,”
says the elegant and accomplished E. News, “is
dead. In his first efforts he wrote his verses on
tiles and on scraps of grocery paper.” We were
born within a few hundred yards of him, and re-
member him. The Cornish, as a nation, are re-
nowned as being good men in hard ground; and
John wielded his pick at the date we refer to—
1857. He didn’t need to write on tiies, because
there are no tiles to write upon; and his efforts on
grocery paper is a delusion, because he was a man
living in a nice little cottage in the village of
Troon, and was in regular work and could get
good paper. Moreover, he was a Wesleyan local
preacher, and a modest man. He made his English
reputation by carrying off the Tercentenary
Shakespeare prize, open to all England. Latterly,
the Foxes — descendants of the founders of
Quakerism—patronised him, and he lived in Ply-
mouth. The Poxes are wealthy people. For the
past twenty-five years the merit of being good
versifiers has been divided between Tryellas,
Harris, and Daniels—the latter being now a leading
contributor to the Plymouth Mercury, or
Gazette -we forget which. Harris, like Kltto
and Sammy Drew, had no education to speak of,
but contrived, by sheer natural force, to keep
down .the drawback of their poor surroundings,
and beat out of sight a crowd of literary man of
their time who had every advantage of training,
and were much bepuffed in their day.
The Victorian Shops Commission, under
the presidency of Major Smith, have sent in a
report to the Acting Governor, emphatically con-
demning any system by which women shall in
future be employed as barmaids in Victoria. To
those who have had the distinguished honour of
seeing the gallant Major trifle with a little drop of
something, ladled out by fair hands in Scott’s
and Craig’s, or elsewhere, this is comforting.
What’s come over the old warrior since the days
when he and Berry, and Peter Lalor, and Jim Pat-
terson used to get a bit funny about election time?
Why, we have seen them, whilst the barmaids
were flying around, and . But we refrain. The
old boys are getting grizzled, and turned fifty, and
into the humour to
“ Compound lor sins they are Inclined to
By damning those they have no mind to.”
Lord Lytton, in editing his father’s “re-
mains,” takes his father’s side against his mother.
In his book we are told that Bulwer Lytton first
met Roslna Wheeler (whom he subsequently mar-
ried) at Miss Berry’s. “A,” (who is in the confi-
dence of the late Lady Lytton’s executrix) tells
the Athenaeum that it was at Miss Benger’s where
Roslna first met him whom she subsequently de-
scribed as having the head of a goat upon the body
of a grasshopper. Here is her account of that
meeting:—“ While poor Miss Landon was still hurl-
ing her avalanches of flattery upon my devoted
head .. there was a slight commotion and a sudden
cessation of voices at the other end of the room,
and Miss Benger said to me, sotto voce, 4 Oh, here is
that odd, rich old woman, Mrs. Bulwer Lytton, and
her son- her favourite son: he is very clever, they
say—his was the prize poem this year at Cam-
bridge. I must introduce you to him.’ 4 Oh, no;
pray don’t on any account,’ I said, as Miss Benger
hurried away to greet the new arrivals; as she did
so, stopping at the door to shake hands with them,
I had time to take an inventory of both, . . He
had just returned from Paris, and was resplendent
with French polish, as far as boots went . . .
his cobweb cambric shirt-front was a triumph
of lace and embroidery, a combination never
seen in this country till six or seven years
later, except on babies’ frocks; studs, too, ex-
cept in racing stables, were then non est, but a
perfect galaxy glittered along the milky way down
the centre of this fairy-like lingerie. His hair,
which was really golden, glittering golden and
abundant, he wore literally in long ringlets that
almost touched his shoulders. The likeness to his
mother was striking, only, reversing the usual
order of things, his features were, though very
prononett, softened duplicates of hers, he was also
unmistakeably gentlemanlike looking, indeed, ac-
cording to his surroundings, too patrician-looking.
He also dangled from his ungloved and glitter-
ing right nand, a somewhat gorgeously jowelled-
headed, ebony cane, and the dangling was of the
scientific kind, that had been evidently learnt,
marked, and inwardly digested. Miss Landon and
I, thus taken unawares, both laughed at the
strange tableau ef contrast at the door, as I ex-
exclaimed —
4 Sir Plume, of amber snuff-box justly vain,
And the true conduct of a clouded cane.’ ”
Not long ago a knook-kneed, bald-headed,
dirty-nosed, sciatica-scourged party of Church
elders waited on Dr. Mary Walker, and forcibly
remonstrated with her for wearing trousers.
“ Look here,” indignantly exclaimed Dr. Mary, as
she jabbed her hands in her offensive oyster bag
A Base Transaction.
Thenight was dark and dreary;
also stormy. A mysterious stran-
ger plodded along the street,
bearing a ghastly looking bur-
then upon his back.
Pleeceman No. 49643 kept his
eye upon the lot for some time.
Until, at last, calling for assistance, he very properly took
the suspicious party in charge; and, having clubbed him first
to insensibility, shut him up in the lock-up until such time as he
should recover sufficiently to give an account of himself.
“What,” said a musical club to
each other “ what can possibly
have come over the Double-bass ? He
ought to have been here two hours
ago!”


The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Rags, Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green. Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Bach package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d. per
Eacfeage. Send 3d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.O
ydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
colours, &o., &o, by return post.
breeches’ pockets, “these pants are bought and
paid for, and I’ll wear them or I’ll wear nothing.
Hear that now?” And as the deputation filed
sadly home, Elder Mulkittle was heard to observe
to Deacon Toots that he was sorrv the delegates
didn’t follow up the attack, and see if that horrid
woman would dare to carry out her threat.
For a manufacturer of first-class jam com-
mend us to a party by the name of Guthrie—James
Guthrie—who is at present belting a knowledge of
the three “H’s” into the juvenile jokers located at
Hay. And, for a good and reliable hand to spread
the Guthrie jam with a trowel, we venture to think
the brilliant genius who maniputes the editorial
shears in the Moruya Examiner takes the cake
from all comers. Mr. Guthrie did not always live
at Hay. Time was, when, according to Comte, the
glittering germs of James Guthrie’s glorious spirit
floated in a nebulous form through the vast im-
mensity of space, or, as Professor Huxley believes,
it rested on old Ocean’s bed in the form of a gob of
slush; but it is not of this eventless period of James
Guthrie’s life that we would speak to-day. We
would speak of the Arcadian days when James
used to up-end the guile'ess youth of Moruya, and
instil the elements of a sound educational system
into their wriggling forms by the aid of a stirrup-
leather, from which the buckle had for obvious
reasons been removed. Those were happy, happy
days, indeed, and James could have stayed there
until he beat old Methuselah’s champion long-life
record; but Fate decreed it otherwise. The stern
voice of Duty called and drowned the dulcet tones
of Love. The Public Instruction despot thought
James had been long enough in clover, and, ex-
straw-dinary as it may seem, sent him off to Hay,
Just here we’ll quietly take a back seat, while the
Examiner magnate observes:—“ Previous to the
departure of Mr. James Guthrie, teacher of the
Public School, Moruya, he was presented with a
handsome set of gold studs, and scarf pin, by a
number of his pupils. As his departure was very
much hurried, the presentation was quite infor-
mal,” Just so. A period of six weeks is supposed
to have elapsed, and then Mr. James Guthrie sends
along the following letter, which, as the Examiner
paste-pot j ostler facetiously says, “ will speak for
itself.” Therefore, let it speak“ Hay, 10th May,
1884. To Miss May . My dear May,—When you
gave me the small packet a week ago, I knew not
what it was, and was most pleasantly surprised to
find therein such a beautiful and useful present.
I had no idea that such a movement was on foot,
so secret was the action of all concerned.” Fancy
that, now. Came upon him unawares, like a thief
in the night (which is a Scriptural allusion), or like
a great big toadstool mushroom after a long
drought (which isn’t Scripture, by a long way).
Now we come to the “taffy” department, and
James says:—“ On making enquiries, I found that
you and Lily were the movers. To both, I send
my best thanks, and shall prize the gift as a sou-
venir of the good understanding there was between
the pupils of the Public School, Moruya, and my-
self. Please convey to all my heartiest thanks,
and specially to Lily.” “Specially to Lily”—oh,
jam I jam I jam satis.
There is a pretty story told of the eldest
son of Prince Frederick, of Palm. Palm is a
German state from which the palm-oil comes. In
1883 the young Count Alfred ran away from home,
because that noble oil-man, his father, would not
allow him to marry a young girl with whom he
was in love. The girl was well brought up and
her parents were comfortably off, but the birth
was not high enough to please the oleaginous
potentate who reigns ever the hop-scotch princi-
pality of Palm. Hop-scotch, by the way, is a literal
translation of the ironical phrase used by the
neighbouring five-acre despots to convey the im-
pression that the game of that name is interdicted
in Palm because there is not room for it without
provoking a war, by infringing on the domi-
nions of another prince. This reminds us of Heine’s
remark in the “ Winter’s Tale ” :—
“ About him on the soles of his feet
A man may carry his country.
Why, half the Dukedom of Biickeberg
I found from my boots depending.”
But, then, Heine was spiteful. Still they say that
the standing armies of some of the German princes
are even now employed to guard the royal
wood-heap. The proverb “ put not your trust in
princes ” probably originated in Germany. How-
ever, we must hurry on to say that when the heir
of Palm cleared out his father heard nothing more
of him for a whole year, although half the income
of the principality was spent in advertising for
him. Magnificent rewards—in the shape of sau-
sages—were offered in vain. At last, when all
hope began to flicker out and the army was
about to get his uniform dyed the court mourning
colour, the Prince received a letter from a man of
the name of Schneider. Schneider was then a
navvy on the Illinois Hallway, but had previously
served in the same regiment of Hussars as the
young Court Alfred. Consequently, he was able
to recognise Court Alfred when he saw him
wielding the pick and shovel. And, so it was.
The heir to the proud old line of Palm was
working In moleskins for two dollars a day
all because of being crossed In love. If we were
at all romantic, we would write you a ballad upon
this that would draw tears to the eye of a towm-
pump. At any rate, we can say in all seriousness
that this pick and-shovel ,‘Prince is probably a
better man than most of those who sit on higher
thrones. Schneider wrote to his father to inform
him that the Count and himself occupied the same
lodging in Chicago. The Prince Immediately sent
the manager of his state—who worked his passage
over as a steerage-steward—to bring back the
prodigal son. But the prodigal son refused—
like, the man" that he was—to come back, unless
he was allowed to marry the lady for whose
sake he had left the cheerful, if not always
sober, companionship of the standing army—he
was very fond of his lager, and his great pipe
was the standing army—and the intoxication of
two clean shirts a week. The princely father gave
his consent. And now he is on the Bourse endea-
vouring to negotiate a National Debt to bring his
son and manager over. The former National
Debt of Palm—cleared off by the Prince giving
testimonials to patent-medicine manufacturers—
was incurred through having to bail out the stand-
ing army on the morning after the young Count
was born. This little story is a proof that romance
is not yet dead in the world.
One of the most polished writers in France
is M. Edmond About. His short, fantastic stories
are inimitable. His literary style is clear, graceful
and concise. But, what most people will consider
nearer the point, he has made by his pen clese
upen five millions of francs. He is proprietor of a
successful paper, and can afford to eat truffles, and
let the world wag when he pleases. This is some-
thing like. Long ago, whin we entered into the
lists of literature with the light of genius in our
eyes, and two-and-fourpence in our pocket, we
had a dream of achieving a similar position. But
it has faded. So have wo. Bitter experience has
taught us that there is not a greengrocer in this
town who would trust William Shakespeare for a
string of onions If that immortal bard came into
the Miop with all his plays written upon his fore-
head. We speak, by the card. One day in the
distant past, before the coldness of the world had
frozen our warm young feelings, and the iron of
its distrust had entered into our soul, we went
into a hotel wherein we had held high revel on
many a festive night, and buoyantly asked for a
drink on credit. The landlord eyed us with an ex-
pression of mingled scorn and amusement. “ We
will soften this flinty heart; we will soothe this
savage breast,” we said to ourselves. Then we
began: “Trust us for once, hard man of the
world, and the high Muses will smile on thee! You
have been down in the rat-pit of Life worrying
vith vulgar, though practical, problems, while we
have been communing with Nature and holding
lofty converse with the stars. Trust us for three-
penn’orth! Look at us well. We have genius—
would you crush that genius? We have
high hopes and noble alms; we have the
light that never was on sea or land; we have ”
“ Have you got threepence ? ” said the landlord,
quietly. We had not. And «o genius was once
more crushed. But we have wandered away from
M. Edmond About. He is said to ba one of the
laziest literary men in connection with journalism.
If we were as rich as he is, we think we should be
quite as lazy. His peculiarity is that when he has
to write an article, he doesn’t want to write it.
Consequently, his sub-editors have to use strategy
i 1 ?!£ i to him to do anything. While he is
talking to them they slip out of the room and turn
the key in the door. About is not the only jour-
nalist who has to be locked up before he writes,
we have known lots of others who also had to be
locked up—but that was to get them sober. There
is. by the way, a curious sort of superstition
among certain people that the only way to get
c i e 7 journalists to do anything really
brilliant, is to shut them up in a room with pens,
ink, paper, and a bottle of whisky. This supersti-
tion Is, we regret to say, too often encouraged by
the writers themselves. We engaged a religious
editor once, who said that he could not do his
talents justice, could not, so to speak, soar to his
highest heaven of invention, unless he were
treated in this manner. We provided the bot-
tle of whisky for him, and locked him up
in a strong room. In about two hours we
came to see how he was getting on with his article.
We found him lying on the floor with his face
painted with ink, and the empty whisky bottle
beside him. We lifted him up by the hair, and
asked him what he meant by it, and what he had
written. He balanced himself on his heels, stared
at us owlishly for a minute, pointed to a sheet of
paper on the floor covered with what might have
been the hieroglyphics of a maniac mummy,
hoarsely whispered : “ Shummoro whishky,” and
fell prone on his face in the corner. But we once
knew a country editor—and he is alive and runs a
paper still—who used to lock himself up for three
days whenever he wanted to write an article
elucidating the intricacies of European politics.
He used to emerge from his retirement under the
impression that he was a sacred cow with a mission
to gore everybody he met. The strain upon his
intellect was too great, without a spelling-book.
For a fortnight after they would have to chain
him to a post in the yard, and feed him on oats
soaked in rum. So, with these experiences, we
can hardly give an unqualified approval to the
locklng-up-with-a-bottle-of-whisky theory.
A correspondent who is in a position to
speak with authority, writes from Dublin, under
date April 10. He saysIf there is any one
Irish politician whose name more than that of any
other stinks in the nostrils of the Irish masses, that
person is Mr. George Brrington, junior member for
Longford, rack-renting and exterminating land-
lord in Tipperary, and anti-Irish sneak at the
Vatican. If Errington be in favour anywhere in
Ireland, it is only in the Orange lodges in the North,
and in Dublin Castle; elsewhere, he is detested
probably as much as the late lamented James
Carey himself. To evoke a storm of groans at any
popular gathering, the readiest and most effectual
i means is to mention the name of Brrington; to
excite with enthusiastic applause, the best way is
i to denounce Errington and all his ways. More-
over, it is not the laity alone, but the great majority
of the clergy also, who regard the “unofficial”
British agent at the Vatican with feelings of abhor-
ence; for it is pretty well understood that the null-
ing up which the Archbishop of Cashel undoubtedly
got at the Vatican, and the issuance of the Papal
Circular in reference to the Parnell Tribute, were
all his doing—that is to say, were all the result of
Mr. George Errington’s constant dinning into the
ears of the Vatican that the Irish land-agitation
was a wicked, Communistic revolt, and that
I the priests and laymen who took part in it
I were equally a mob of scoundrels, in arms against
a virtuous Government and a much injured body
of landed proprietors. Under these circumstances,
and with the fate of the luckless Papal Circular in
view, it would appear to be but common prudence
for Mr. Errington’s friends in this country to let
him drop out of notice as quickly as possible. The
I said friends do not think so, however, it appears.
So far, indeed, from thinking that his game is
played out, those persons apparently fancy that
they can run not only him, but others of his stamp,
into Irish seats at the next election more easily
than ever. At all events, they are determined, if
they can, to re-elect the godly Errington himself
to his present seat for Longford. That is what is
to be inferred from action which has just been
taken by Dr. Woodlock, the Catholic Bishop of
that district. About two or three weeks since, it
was resolved amongst the leaders of the National
party in Longford to hold a convention of dele-
gates from the branches of the National League in
the county, for the purpose of considering the
very question of providing a successor for Mr.
Errington in the London House of Commons.
That convention was to be held on the 2nd of the
present month. It was a foregone conclusion that
Mr. Brrington’s claims, should they be cham-
pioned by anyone, would be instantly scouted,
and it was almost equally certain that Mr.
Justin H. M'Carthy, the son of the other
member for Longford, would be selected as
the colleague of his father. Bishop Woodlock
thereupon seems to have taken alarm, and, to give
himself breathing-time, he asked that the date of
the convention should be changed from the 2nd to
27th April, that the priests of the county who
would not, on the latter date, be encumbered with
Lenten duties, might be able to be present at the
gathering. Suspecting nothing, the Nationalist
leaders acceded to the Bishop’s suggestion:
but they had no sooner done so, than Dr.
Woodlock Issued a circular to his priests, request-
ing them to inform their flocks that he himself
intended shortly after Easter to invite the clergy
and the laity to meet and select suitable candidates
for Parliament 1 In other words, he ostentatiously
threw the Nationalists overboard, and flung down
to them the gage of battle, after he had led them
to expect his passive co-operation. At least,
this is the story told in the midland papers, and by
some Longford people whom I have met within
the ;iast few days ; and the gloss popularly put
upon it is that Dr. Woodlock, whether in
obedience to suggestions from Rome or not,
wants one of the two Longford seats for
Errington. If the popular view ia right,
Dr. Woodlock has made one of the greatest mis-
takes of his life. The re-nomination of Errington,
or of any politician like Errington, will simply set
Longford and Ireland in a blaze of indignation,
and will lead to a fight in which most undoubtedly
the whole Errington party will get a terrific fall,
and by which the Church itself will certainly not
be benefited. It is true than when last the Catholic
clergy and the National party got into collision in
Longford, the latter got the worst of it. That was
in 1809, when the late John Martin, the ’48 Nation-
alist, was put forward in opposition to the son of
the Whig, Lord Greville. But the victory then
won by the priests was more disastrous than a
defeat, for the tactics to which they resorted for
success procured the unseating of their man on
petition; and, as a matter of fact, they nave not
since then interfered much, or at all, in Parlia-
mentary elections. Besides, success at that time
would be no augury of similar success at the pre-
sent day. The Land League has done its work in
the Interval; and, though Longford is compara-
tively a backward place, it has not failed to catch
the spirit of the time. A striking proof of this
fact is to be found in the result of the recent Poor
Law Elections in that locality. The Nationalists
nearly everywhere triumphed—even when their
opponents had the support of the landlords and of
the priests together, the latest news is that
Bishop Woodlock has dropped Errington like a hot
potato. We shall see.
* * *
Andy Lynch is about to get a testimonial
from his Bourke constituents. Let us hope it will
take the shape of a Grammar A. P. Backheuse
is to take the place of Docker, who is to take the
?i lace of the resigned Josephson....The Mayor of
nverell, a few days ago, publicly presented a boy
named Haid with a gold medallion, the gift of Mr.
and Mrs. Wright, in token of appreciation of the
youngster’s bravery in rescuing their daughter,
Maude, from drowning. Haid was never more
welcome, they wished to express Laycock
think* Beach is a fool to refuse to row Hanlan on
the Nepean, as he considers it to be a far better
course than the Parramatta River. Elias says
Beach studies public convenience too much. Our
opinion is that the Shark Islander studies Beach’s
interests in a like proportion. [N.B.—Out Darling
Point way, the culchawed pronounce the ex-
champion s name Lay-co.] Mr. M’Appion, of
Yass, wanting to kindle her fire smartly, took a
four-gallon tin half full of kerosene, and proceeded
to pour oil on the burning chips, with the educa-
tional result that she learned more of the proper-
ties of the oil in half a minute than she had pre-
viously acquired during her whole existence
Possibly no man ever lived that was so pious as
Bank Manager Neill looks; and yet—well, appear-
ances are devilishly deceitful:—
And contact with dummies doth poison truth,
And honesty lives—well, where ? my son—
And directors are canny, and money short,
And to realise dibs on a mortgaged run
Makes the holiest do what he didn’t ought.
....Shorbourne Sheppard (of the firm of J. B. Weir
and Son) defunct, Shepparton (Vic.) on the Goul-
burn River named after him... King Tawhio and
suite, whilst in England, Ito be the guests of old
Lord Chichester Murray-Smith M.A.-ed by Ox-
ford (honorary). Why, the Lord only knows
Dick the Bear alias Richard Crunon, a Victorian
hermit, found dead in bush near Alexandra; body
mutilated by dingoes and wild cats George
Sydney, host of the Terminus Hotel, Coalopolis,
died last week, A very old colonist Mr. Louis
Buchanan proved himself an efficient jerquer up
when he declined to take the tobacco billet. We
presume he thought it would end in smoke....
Governor Loftus offers the hospitality of Govern-
ment House to Archbishop Moran. Quite right.
But why make Jennings the “ organ ” of commu-
nication with the prelate ? Surely etiquette re-
quired the invitation to be gent through the Vicar-
General.
• • ♦
A writer who was admitted to Osman
Dlgna’s camp, found the famous chief sitting on
the ground, and wearing only a very dirty sheet
and a straw cap. “ He appeared to me,” says the
writer, “to be a very common sort of man.” Tt
could hardly have been expected that in such a
uniform Osman would appear as gorgeous as a
brigadier-general of militia....A Chicago paper
calls Mr. Joseph Cook “flippant and reckless,” be-
cause, in a recent lecture in Boston, he informed
his hearers that on all railroad trains entering
Chicago, the conductors and brakemen announced
twenty minutes’stop for divorces. “This,” says
our contemporary, with disgust, “ was received as
the utterance of a wit.” Well, it was funny.
Let Joe have justice, oven as a mountebank
Duly seconded and adopted by the Council of Ayr
(Scotland) that in respect of the exceptional suc-
cess which, by ability and perseverance, bad, to
the honour of Ayr, elevated two sons of ex-
Bailie MTlwraith—the elder to the mayorship of
the great city of Melbourne, and the younger to
the Premiership of Queensland—the council con-
fer upon the brothers the freedom of their native
Royal Burgh. No such mighty honour, if, as Burns
wrote, the Ayr Council is still composed of
“ Men who grew wise prlggin’ owre hops and
raisins,
Or gathered liberal views in bonds and seisins,
If haply knowledge on a random tramp
Had shor’d them with a glimmer of his lamp
And would to common sense have once betray’d
them,
Plain, dull, stupidity stept kindly in to aid them.
— Isidore Jollivet. oldest Mauritius district
magistrate died last month. ..The Manx Sun
says that Lady Loch is Indeed a crown
to her husband; which is bully for Sir
Henry, since numerous wives are a good many
crowns (not to speak of guineas) unto their spouses.
.... William Sharp, a native of Bralthwaite. Keigh-
ley (Eng.), was jilted at the age of 30. Then he
jilted the world, and for 49 years shut himself up
and never uttered a word. He lived, till his death,
in silence, confinement, and dirt, all traces of in-
tellectual faculties having become dormant during
his latter years — Henry Ward Beecher declares
he never went to see the Langtry, as it was alleged
he did, in Boston journals ; and asserts his belief
that somebody is going around made up like him-
self. Could it have been this “ double ” who was
sweet on Mrs. Tilton in a knee-o-platonlc way ?
— A book, by Chinese Gordon, is published in
London by this time. It was expected to be an
oddity. Title: “ Reflections in Palestine. 1883.”...
Charles Stuart, great-grandson of Bonnie Prince
Charlie—who left heaps of illegitimate children—
died at Naples in April.
Two Recent Exhibitions.
IMPORTANT NEWS FROM CAL-
CUTTA.
SOME INTERESTING INTELLI-
GENCE.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDS.
At the present time, anything concerning 1 the
Calcutta Exhibition must be of peculiar interest
to the people of this and the adjoining colonies. A
certain class of society has a habit of referring to
all such spirited and intelligent movements in the
march of progress by the generic term “a craze.”
With persons of this class, everything out of the
beaten track of their lives, and beyond the narrow
limit of their vision, is “a craze”—the “latest
craze,” they eall it. However, by whatever name
it may be designated, there is a precious principle
involved in the “Institution,” which is a time-
honoured one, after all; albeit we have had a
somewhat remarkable extension of the principle
of late years, in connection with the growth and
development of British possessions the world over.
A REMARKABLE FACT
In connection with the recent Calcutta Exhibition,
and one which cannot be too highly vaiued for its
peculiar bearing upon these colonies, is the in-
creased knowledge of Australia which has been
already manifested through its agency, and the
evident interest that has been awakened in a direc-
tion with which it would be highly profitable and
in every sense advantageous for us to have inti-
mate relationship.
THEfCITY OF PALACES,
As the metropolis of British India is called, is a
commercial centre of great importance; and when
our hopes are realised of a trade being opened be-
tween these colonies and that vast emporium, the
advantages will be in every way enormous. The
population of Calcutta, in 1881, was 683,458—that is,
without Howrah. Besides these, thousands of the
three and a-half millions who sleep at night in the
surrounding districts of Hooghly, and the twenty-
four Pergunnahs, flock to Calcutta by day, on
foot, by boat, or by railway, to their daily toil.
Calcutta may be regarded as the
GREAT C0MMERC1AL;CENTRE
of Asia. One-third of the whole trade of India is
done there. The chief exports are jute, cotton,
rice, sugar, indigo, coffee, tea, saltpetre, linsetd,
shellac, buffalo-horns, hides, castor oil, &c. The
requirements of such a vast central depot may be
imagined; and there should be a good field there
for our colonial traders, ©specially in view of the
projected system of direct steam communication.
In 1877 the imports amounted to £16,693,813.
Among the many
SUCCESSFUL BPHIBITORS
at the Calcutta Exhibition were the proprietors of
St. Jacob’s Oil, the world renowned remedy. Day
by day this great boon and true
FRIEND OF SUFFERING HUMANITY
is extending its beneficial influence. Testimonials,
unsolicited, are sent to the agents, accompanied
by grateful expressions of thankfulness on the
part of those who have been saved from dis-
orders of various kinds, or who have been re-
lieved from pain ot long-standing by the timely
use of the Oil, which acts like a charm. Neces-
sarily, the agents are unable to do more than select
a few from the large number of letters sent; and
it may have been observed that such as have been
published represent all classes of society—persons
engaged in all manner of pursuits, from the hardy
miner and the sailor, whose occupations are those
of hardship and exposure, to the office clerk and
others engaged in sedentary occupations, and also
the wealthy free-liver.
ONE EXHIBITS
That obtained special distinction was, as we have
said, St. Jacobs Oil, the most celebrated of medi-
clnes of Its class, perhaps, in the world. The ex-
perience of the judges appointed to award prizes
enabled them to confer upon it a distinction never
before bestowed upon any other patent medicine,
and they accordingly awarded it
THE GOLD MEDAL.
Testimonials of the most convincing character*
showing the marvellous curative powers of the
oil, as locally experienced, were forthcoming; and
it was on the strength of these, and the general
evidence presented to them, that the jurors
awarded the modal. This fact speaks volumes,
and needs no explanation or comment to further
recommend it.
IMPORTANT TESTIMONY
of the value of the cure has been furnished by the
Inspector of Post Offices at Calcutta, who used the
°’l 'with most beneficial results whilst an inmate
of the hospital at Seaidah, suffering from small-
pox. It is as follows
“ Campbell Hospital,
“ Seaidah,
“Calcutta,
Tr . , “ March j!6,1884.
Having heard of the healing and curative
powers of St. Jacobs OH in cases of sore throats,
pains, etc., and suffering while in this institution
with a sore throat, I obtained the permission of
the medical officers, who attended me for small-
pox, to use it, and have much pleasure in stating
that a single application gave me much relief, and
in three days, using the oil twice daily, I felt rid of
the sore throat. 1 have no hesitation in recom-
mending the use of the same to others, and feel
sure they will find the oil give instantaneous relief.
‘I would also here mention that with the sore
throat I had a severe pain in the Jaws, which was
removed after only two applications of St. Jacobs
“ (Signed) E. A. Pereira,
“ Head Inspector of Post'Offloes.”
ACCEPTED BY THE FACULTY.
It will be observed that the above testimonial
derives an additional value to the great majority
that have been published, from the fact of the
medical officers of that Institution having so far
recognised the merit of St. Jacobs Oil, aslto re-
commend its use by a patient under their care.
This, however, is not the only instance of the
faculty” having overcome proverbial prejudice.
The writer is in a position to state that it has been
approved of by an officer of the
PRINCE ALFRED HOSPITAL,
and it is not difficult to imagine that St. Jacobs
Oil will soon take its place as a curative agent of
great value in our benevolent institutions for
the sick.
FURTHER AFIELD.
Leaving Calcutta and coming nearer home, we
may take a peep at a pretty little city in the Bri-
tain of the South, as some people call it. The
writer refers to Christchurch, New Zealand.
There are many old residents of New Zealand how
located here, and apart from what is known in that
colony as provincial jealousy-a feeling which, the
writer believes, is fast dying out-those New Zea-
landers will readily admit *
THE CATHEDRAL'CITY
To be one of the prettiest of the towns in the
two islands. It was a Church of England settle-
ment originally, and has remained very English—
very much “ Church of England ’’—and just a little
slow-going and conservative, perhaps, ever since.
It has an extensive back country, and the output
of grain and wool from the port (Lyttelton) each
year is very extensive. Her®, in this city, some
time since, one of those useful Exhibitions was
held, the building having been erected not far
trom the banks of the pretty artesian river, with
its fringe of weeping willows—the last to shed
their leaves, and the lirst to don again l heir deli-
cate garb of green.
THE AVON
is the name of this stream upon which boating
parties enjoy themselves during the milder months
pt the year—and which meanders through the
town, and constitutes one of the great attractions
of Christchurch.
Walking through the Exhibition Building,
during the latter days of its brief existence, the
writer came upon
AN OLD FRIEND,
or rather a somewhat new friend—a friend that
has done much for a great many people in this
world of aches and pains. It was St. Jacobs Oil.
which here, also, gained the distinction of a gold
medal. Throughout New Zealand the oil has
effected some remarkable cures, and testimonials
to that effect have been freely given by both
Europeans and Maoris-the latter regard it as
magical.
A SHORT RETROSPECT.
Butwho, it may be asked, are the proprietors of
this St. Jacobs Oil that we heard so much about?
And by way of anticipating such an enquiry, the
writer proceeds at once to state the facts.
The firm is styled the Charles A. Vogeler
Company, and is at present composed of Mr
Christian Devries, President of the National Bank
of Baltimore; Mrs. M. A. Vogeler, widow of the
late Mr. C. A. Vogeler; and Mr. H. D. Umstaetter.
a journalist of high repute, and the author of some
well-known humorous works.
The offices and works of the firm are located at
Nos. 184,186, and 188 W. Lombard-street, Baltimore;
and over 600 hands are employed on the premises,
including the largest printing-office in the State,
regularly engaged in producing the “St. Jacobs
Oil Family Calendar, and Book of Health and
Humour.”
IN GOOD FAITH,
It may be stated, as an evidence of the confidence
of the best class in St. Jacobs Oil, that Mr. Chris-
tian Devries, one of the foremost merchants of
Maryland, head of the old house of Wm. Devries
and Co., President of the National Bank of Balti-
more, and a Director of the Western Maryland
Railroad, has become the leading partner in the
Charles A. Vogeler Company. Mr. Devries, like
many other prominent men, was himself cured of
rheumatism by its use. The remaining partner,
Mr. H. D. Umstaetter, whose brilliant talents and
rare genius as an advertiser, in organising and
conducting the Advertising Department of this
house, have long since passed into an often-pointed-
at example and placed him in the front rank of the
business world.
FOOD FOR REFLECTION.
The following expressions of opinion from high-
class journals will be read with interest
The Republican (St. Louis), speaking from posi-
tive knowledge, says St. Jacobs Oil Is a moat
excellent remedial agent.
Boston Daily Globe St. Jacobs Oil drives
all pain away The firm is one of the most
substantial in the United States.”
Says the Tribune, Chicago:—“Taking in view
the number of testimonials in support of the
efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil, and the high character
of those supplying them, the inference is irresis-
tible that the remedy is the most remarkable, for
such diseases as have been mentioned, that has yet
been discovered, and, considering their value as a
guide and suggestion to suffering humanity, there
is nolhing unmercantlle or unprofessional in
advertising the article. This ought to commend it
to the confidence of all our citizens.”
There are a host of testimonials from eminent
persons in Canada, Mexico, Cuba, and other
places, the publication of which would be impos-
sible in a single article, and with the space at
command.


Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Wiluiamson, Garner and Musohove
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Overture at 7.45 ; Carriages, 10.40.
Third week and last night but one of
IMPULSE I
SATURDAY, JUNE 7,
will be the First Appearance in Sydney of
England’s greatest Actress,
MISS GENEVIEVE WARD,
who was engaged by Mr. Garner during his visit
to England.
Miss WARD will make her first appearance in
Sydney on SATURDAY, JUNE 7, in the world-
renowned play,
FORGET ME NOT ! FORGET ME NOT I
Anaddiiional attraction will be brought forward
in connection with this engagement in the
person of
Mr. W. H. VERNON,
Box Plan now open.
Jjf.B W
MASONIC HALL.
Casttereagh-street, South,
TUESDAY, JUNE 17th, 1884.
Under the patronage of His Excellency the
Governor,
LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS, G.C.B., and LADY
LOFTUS.
SIGNORA D. P. M. FABRIS’
GRA.ND BENEFIT CONCERT,
assisted by Distinguished Artists of Sydney, in-
cluding Madame Charbonnet-Kellarmann, Madame
Anna King. Miss Sherwin, Mr. Hector M’Liean, Mr.
Sebastian Hodge, and Pupils of Signor and Signora
Fabris.
GRAND ORCHESTRA.
Orchestral accompaniments managed specially bv
LEON CARON, for Signora L. P. M. FABRIS.
Plan of Seats and Tickets at W. H. Paling and
Co., 356 Qeorge-street.
Reserved Seats, os.; Second Seats, 33. Family
tickets, admitting five persons, £1 Is.
ADMISSION-TWO SHILLINGS.
SIDNEY READ,
Manager.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Home of Incessant Mirth and Music I
HISCOCKS' FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELL' iU8 GIRARDS, in their Grand CHANGE of
PROGRAMME Every artist encored nightly.
Terrific Success of the New Burlesque
WESTWARD HO !
By Leopold Jordan, Esq.
Admission—Fauteuiis, 4s. ; Reserved seats, 3s. ;
Second seats, 2s.; Balcony, Is.
i
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN,
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
Mr. Glover’s Tour will commence immediately
on the conclusion of his engagement with Signor
Majoroni, supported by one of the best companies
in the colonies. Bee future advertisements.
A N C I N G .
PKOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-strcet. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
North Shore Rowing Club.
Third annual ball,
Under the patronage of
LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS, COMMODORE
BRSKINE, and OFFICERS of H.M.S. Nelson,
will take place at
NEEDS’ ROOviS (NITHSDALE),
ON THURSDAY, JUNE 5,
Stewards :
Hon. G. R. Dibbs, M.P. Hon. J. P. Abbott. M.P.
C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.P. B. O. Holterman. M.P,
D. O’Connor, M.P. J P. Garvan, M.P.
C. L. Sahl, Esq., Consul Dr. Ward
for Germany R. Harnett, Esq.
J. R. Love, Esq. G. M. Pitt, Esq., J.P.
M. M’Mahon, Esq. W. Fleming, Esq.
James Thompson, Esq. A. Milson, Esq.
Patrick Hayes, Esq. J.P. John Cooper, Esq.
W. H. Tulloh, Esq.
Tickets t Ladies’, 12s. 6d.; Gentlemen’s, 21s.;
Double, 30s., may be had from F. W. B. Love, 99
Bathurst-street: J- 8. Davis, 438 George-street;
W. T. Robertson, 409 George-street; B. E. Brice,
Railway Department, any of the leading shops, or
from
HARRY H. ROBEY,
Honorary Secretary,
11 Bridge-street.
Mr. EDWARD HANLAN, Champion Sculler of
the World, has signified his intention of being
present.
MERCANTILE ROWING CLUB BALL
THE NINTH ANNUAL BALL,
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
JST THURSDAY, JULY 3rd,
Under the patronage and in the presence of
His Worship the Mayor,
JOHN HARDIB, ESQ ,
and
THE MERCHANTS OF SYDNEY.
EVENING DRESS.
Decorations by Sale and Dare. Band ; The Young
Australian.
D. MURRAY, I Joint
a*. A BLACKSTONE, \ Hon. Secs’
R. A. KEDDIE, Treasurer.
Coolalta Wine Cellars, Mori’s Passage.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices : 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS. WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamerw for SHTSBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LBURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
43 King Street, Sydney.
AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
a r7^ f *°v 0wIn8rta } ent J? d . Arti8ts wiU appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2.30, 2.40,3,3.30,
The entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano,
foite from the establishment of Nicholsen and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 28th May, 1884.
FOR WOODEN BUILDINGS.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of
Wooden Buildings for Public School pur-
poses at Birch Grove, Balmain North.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of
Public Instruction. Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Wooden Build-
ings, Birch Grove Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock
a.m. on Wednesday, the 18th June, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 3rd June, 1884.
TENDERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are invited for the fol-
1 owing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accent
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
WASTE PAPER, Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
Third Annual Owl Club Ball,
w
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS.
ILL TAKE PLACE
at the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, the I2th of JUNE.
T. L. CLARKE, Hon. Treas.
(care F. Lassetter and Co.)
MORRIS MENSER, Hon. Sec.,
384 George-atreet.
QUINA LAROCHE. S
■WH-A.T IS IT?
ASK YOUR CHEMIST
THE CRUISE OF THE WOL-
VERENE,
It wat high noon in Woolloomooloo. From
street and lane, broad avenue and sweltering alley,
poured out a tide of throbbing, vigorous life. The
Wolverene was going to sea. The Volunteer
Naval Artillery Corps had been warned to hold
themselves in readiness for foreign service. Secret
instructions under the Great Seal of the Colony—
not to bo broken till Pott’s Point was rounded—
had been delivered to the Captain; and the wives*
children, a ad sweethearts of the men who, in
defence of fatherland, were about to brave the
dangers of the deep, gathered at the wharves and
jetties to see the last of the loved ones on whom
they might never more set eyes. A fierce three-
knot gale had for days been blowing on the coast.
All hands aboard, the Commander gave orders to
run in the gangway; and, as the noble ship beaded
for the Pacific, a cheer went over the waters—a
cheer long and defiant as that that went up from
the mariners of Elizabeth when the stately galleons
of Philip appeared on the horizon. Many a brave
heart that passed unflinching through a campaign
at Parramatta, or a kit inspection at Paddington,
throbbbed with emotion as the castellated facade
of Pinchgut became blurred by distance, and the
sinuosities of the channel hid from view the busy
life of Balmain and Cockatoo.
• • •
Suddenly, from the larboard cat-head,
were heard the warning words, “ Breakers ahead I”
“ Where away, messmate?” cheerily rang out the
Captain’s voice from the quarter-deck, and a shoal
of playful porpoises stopped in their gambols,
startled by the cry of “ Where away, messmate ?”
that rose from a hundred willing throats. “ East
by west, H north, 3 points abaft the dog-watch,”
came from the trusty seaman aloft—Glebe Island
Sam—who had once voyaged to Botany in a tram.
A cloud passed over the Captain’s face. The
critical moment had come. The Australian “ Inch-
cape Rook,” the dreaded “ Sow and Pigs,” was in
Bight. All now depended on the skipper’s nerve
and seamanship. “ Beef the main-yard, belay the
main-brace, and sit on the funnel,” came in crisp,
distinct tones from the poop, and the stout vessel,
responding to the command like a thing of life,
passed safely into the open sea, leaving the
breakers three miles on the lee.
■ • •
It was Saturday afternoon. The Hon. W.
J. Trlckettiand several members of Parliament
were on board, but the secret of the sealed de-
spatches had been well kept. On examining his
instructions, the Captain found that the object of
the expedition was to engage in target practice,
while keeping a sharp look-out for any fishing
smacks attempting a landing at Bondi. The
bos’n’s shrill pipe to quarter was followed
by a muster of close on forty able seamen.
It was then discovered that, in the hurry of
embarkation, the target had been forgotten. Many
suggestions were made, only to be as quickly dis-
missed. Some said the Quarantine Station offered
u, good mark; others that the South Head was a
more favourable object—not too small to make
good practice difficult, nor too large to render it
easy. At last it was decided that the Waverley
Churchyard offered a legitimate field for exercise,
and the Kent-street section of Volunteers were
ordered to try a couple of rounds on it from the
two stern-chasers. At the order to “ fire,” a 401b.
round shot sped hurtling through the air, suggest-
ing to many on board an explanation of the Bibli-
cal expression, “the quick and the dead.” But
the elevation was defective, and the inexorable
law of gravitation brought the bolt to earth close
to the Botany Waterworks. The other gun missed
fire. On examination, it was discovered that a slight
error had been made—the ball had been put down
first. This was irritating, and the gunner who in-
advertently reversed the cartridge was obliged-
very justly, we think—to creep down the gun and
dig the charge out with a walking-stick. As the
aim became more accurate and the monuments
and tombstones recording the virtues of deceased
publicans or tradesmen, who in life had done well
out of adulterated beer or light bread, began to
show signs of unsteadiness, the word passed among
the dead that the recidivistes had landed in force,
and that it was time to take up their coffins and go
West. Then a procession—the weirdest, ghastliest,
unoanniest that ever filled the opium-induced
visions of Poe or De Quincy—passed in single file
through the church-yard gate, and. striking the
main road to Parramatta, made for the mountains,
led by the skeleton of a noted Orangeman, whose
attempts to play “Croppies lie down” on the
femur he had stolen from a Jesuit priest met with
but feeble enthusiasm from his ghostly following;
“ The young corpse hot and restless, and the old
subdued and slow.”
♦ » *
Night was approaching when, the cruise
being ended, the vessel's head was turned North.
The gale raged with unabated violence, so that
“ bouting ship” was a matter of difficulty, and was
only effected by a number of hardy mariners from
Pyrmont who stood in the bow, and, laying hold
of th« meridian with boat-hooks, brought the
vessel gradually to. The wind had now increased
to a 3y£-knot cyclone, but above the warring
elements was heard the sharp “ heave to ” of the
Commander. The seasoned seamen from Circular
Quay and Cook’s River crowded to the bulwarks
and heaved, too. One more daring than the others
went aloft and nailed the colours to the mast.
Heavily, the gale-beaten vessel laboured, like a
stout-hearted swimmer the spray at his lip. At
last, worn out with work and watching, hope was
slowly giving way to despair, traces that never
blanched before a Darlinghurst policeman ; legs
that never trembled under an extra brick in
an already overloaded hod, became sad and
shaky. It was whispered that it might be
necessary to pass the night exposed to the elemen-
tal strife. A mile to the west, rose the gaunt
warning skeleton of the South Head Lighthouse,
near which many of those on board had spent
pleasant hours in the happy past, whiling away the
time with song and laughter, relieved by visits to
the hospitable hostelries of Watson’s Bay. Under
the careless exterior, so natural to sailors, a care-
ful observer could detect the unspoken thought
that never again would the glad slopes of Coogee
and Bondi, respond to the light-hearted gaiety of
these children of the sea. But relief was at hand.
From a fleet of smacks fishing for schnapper a
boat shot out, propelled by the stout arms of two
Stalwart fisherman. The hopes of the distressed
stamen arose, as the frail craft approached. A
dozen ready hands were found to heave a rope to
the rescuers, and hearts, that but a few moments
ago were sunk in despair, again swelle* with
hope, as the crippled war-ship passed through
the Heads in tow of the two watermen
whose assistauce was so opportune. Although
the perilous cruise was nearly at an end,
the same strict discipline and nice attention to
details, which had never been relaxed even in the
hour of gravest peril, were observable on board,
and wen the plaudits of the Imperial naval officers
now in port. Once more from aloft came the note
of warning to stand off a point from the treacher-
ous “Sow and Pigs,” whose angry swirl was
observed by tho keen eye of the man in the crow’s
nest. Graduallyfthe familiar lineaments of Pinch-
gut and Shark Island appeared through the gloam-
ing. When the rattle of the cable told that Wol-
loomoo'oo wharf was alongside, and a plank run
out from the gangway suggested to the storm-
tossed mariners that the peril was over and that
little remained but to take leave of the staunch
bark and of the two brave watermen who had
aided them in their hour of need—the Naval
Brigade silently filed over the primitive gangway
to receive from their loved ones that welcome
never stintlly given by a British community to
those who cheerfully sacrifice home and comfort
in defence of the flag that will never wave over a
nation of slaves.
THE CRUISE OF THE WOLVERENE.
Saved!


Jli
hs m i
The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
W NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED,
WHERE DO YOU PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
Why, from the ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
of course, whore they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
from the sterling metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but an expert can detect the difference.
See our List of Prices, as follows, and note that
ANY ARTICLE WILL BE SENT POST FREE.
AND AT OUR RISK; —
Gent’s Oriental G old Alaska Diamond Rings, 7s. 6d
each
Gent’s richly-chased, engraved, and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 10s., and 13s. (id
per set
Same as above, only Half Suites. 3s., 4s., 5s. per set
Very latest American patent-spring Solitaire
Suites. 10s. per set
Gent's Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each
Gent’s handsome Scarf Pins, 3s. 6d., 5$., 6s„ 7s. 6d.,
8s., and 10s. each
Gent’s elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. 6d., 8s., and 10s.
each
Gent's elegant Compasses, latest designs, 8s., 10s.
and 13s. 6d. each
Gent’s very latest American 18-carat rolled Gold
Alberts (made specially to our order), 17s. 6d.,
30s , 35s.. 37s. 6d ., and 30s. each
Choice Brooch and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 35s.
Richly-chased & engraved Bracelets, 13s. 6d. to 30s,
Elegant Brooches, beautiful patterns, 5s. to 35s.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. 6d„
8s. 6d ,10s.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassells, 15s., 30s., and 35s. each
Handsome jewelled Earrings, 6s., 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d.,
and 10s. pair ; Ladies’ choice Necklets, from
13s. 6d. to 30s,; Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7e. to
15s. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps,
15s. to 35s.; Ladies’very best American 18-carat
rolled gold Chatalaines, 30s.; Ladies’ choice
Lockets and Necklets, 30s. to 40s.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., 8s. 6d., 10s., 15s., and 30s.
1NU.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 4 6
No. 3.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 10 0
No. 3.
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tasselis £3 17 6
No, 4.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 3 Q
These watches are made specially to ouy
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
No. 5.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert £4 10 0
No. 6.
Ditto Ditto, extra jewelled, and compen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Albert £5 5Q
No. 7.
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance ..£5 5 0
No. 0.
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
No. 10. '
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
No. 11.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
No. 13.
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 8
No. 13.
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
fnll jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £10 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £10.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.—If the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifie
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
The vigour of youth given to the aged and
infirm by using' Hop Bitters. Try it. Read.
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars, 1-13 Pitt-street.*
Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, roach t s, ants
bed-bugs, rats, mice, gophers, jack-rabbit' 1 . aiei
out by “Rough on Rats.” Mosjj, i<l '3t a o .
Sydney, General Agents.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
THBATBB Rotae—“ Impulse ” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre— “ The Irish Detective ” .. ib.
«ipeba House—Mrs. nr. Potts lb.
Academy of Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
Somehow, we never get tired going to the
Ministrels. We got weary of almost everything
else that continues for two or three months, like
the string of saveloys our former landlady had
concealed somewhere about the kitchen. The
Minstrels make us laugh, whereas the saveloys and
other bags of mystery make us ill. And this re-
minds us of the man we once had a grudge against.
He had an account against us, we believe, but our
grudge was a great deal more convincing and
powerful. He kept a dong store, and when we
asked him the difference between a dong store and
a saveloy, he didn’t give it up. He guessed it at
once, and as the bottles flew past our head, he said
be knew what grew on the outside of a saveloy,
but that a dong store didn’t have the same sort of
thing Inside, it is the easiest thing in the world to
be mistaken. A man can be mistaken and not
know it. We have in mind just now the fellow
who was mistaken for us, and a Rocky Mountain
sheriff killed him on sight. But that hasn’t much
to do with the Minstrels as we know of; and, come
to think of it, it is always easier to write about
something else than the particular subject in hand.
♦ * *
We were going to tell you a lot of things
about Sam Keenan this week, only we invited him
out to dinner the other day, and he swallowed a
whole roast pig at one bite, and asked how much
they were a dozen on the half-shell. A man who
does that on us once, don’t dine where we do very
often afterwards. Oh, by the way, Keenan and
Horace Bent have been getting up a new “sketch,”
called “Fun on the Brighton.” The Brighton is
represented to be an excursion steamer bound
from Circular Quay to Manly Beach. Sam is cast
as a giddy young damsel, Horace as a masher, and
Braham and Porter and Moya ham and Carroll and
the rest as officers, passengers, musicians, &c., and
the fun opens long before a wheel begins to turn.
The sketch was shown to us in the rough, the
other day, and we smiled at it. That is enough to
make anything take, if you ask us; but put it off
a week or two, fer we don’t like to hide a brand
new blue ribbon before we've worn any of the
gloss away.
• • •
And this leads us up to the place where
we want to tell you that we are soon going to start
out as a temperance orator. We have been getting
ready for this particular line of business for years.
John B. Gough, you know, was a drunken shoe-
maker, who went into the gutter and neglected
his wife and children. Frank Murphy, who origi-
nated the blue ribbon movement, was an Ohio
saloon-keeper, who killed a customer in adrunken
spree and was sent up for twenty years. He got
religion while in gaol, and was pardoned out
through the influence of the Crusade gang, who
made Ohio hotter than Dutch love in January
along about ’75 and ’76. Dr. Reynolds who origin-
ated the Red Ribbon, which is now more exten-
sively worn in America than any other teetotal
badge, was a physician at Bangor, Maine, and
drank up a fortune before he had sense enough to
stop. Mr. Booth is comparatively a new apostle,
but his capacity for booze was never questioned
a very few years ago. All of these men are
horrid examples, and that is what we are pre-
paring for. we prefer Mum’s, so that if you are
interested in the cause of Temperance send us
around a basket or two of the stuff you’ve been
slyly supping at in the cellar ever since you began
wearing that bit of blue on the lappel of your coat.
But this is very dry. We shall be mum on the
temperance question henceforth.
• • «
It is better than a gin cocktail to hear
Horace Bent at a stump speech. If he ever had
any rivals in that particular, we don’t remember
wlio they were. Milt Barlow was good, and
Hughey Daugherty was better, but Hughey lived
so long ago that only a few play-goers now alive
saw him in his prime. And, now that we think of
it, we want to point out to your recollection
some of the changes that have taken place in negro
minstrelsy within the past quarter of a century.
The old-time shows were specially devoted t > a
representation of plantation life as it existed
amongst the negro slaves of America b Tore the
Civil War. The most attractive leaturo about
them, to our mind, was the “ field ” lifeas depicted
on the stage. The song and dance business was
considered a necessary adjunct, and the planta-
tion melodies were never left out. The jokes and
gags of those days were not so numerous nor so
good as those of to-day. By and by. the clog
dancing took the place of the break-down, and
then came the pedestal clog and the stump speech,
and other novelties that once would have been
regarded as variety business. Now we have the
Girards and double-voiced vocalists, and other
specialists, who lend us a part of their salary every
week and take us home in cabs after the show is
over and we are too late or too tired, or some-
thing, to catch a tram. But we like the change;
and when wo occasionally hear some old American
say that the minstrel shows of to-day are away
behind those of twenty years ago, we look at him
just as people do at us when they know we are
lying and don’t like to say so. The variety busi-
ness has improved the entertainment, if our
opinion is worth anything and the crowded
houses and long seasons are any indication to a
blind man up a gum tree. But, here we are;
wandering again like a snoring somnambulist, who
ought to be confining himself to pleasant dreams
and keeping his head covered up to cheat mos-
quitos.
• • •
The Pederals have been drawing the big-
gest houses that ever crowded into the Academy,
and there is no telling when they may go away.
The other day we heard Colonel Hiscooks telling
Smythe to get a new blue streamer thirty feet long
and have it hung out, as the season had been so
long that the old one was worn out. We asked
him when he was going away, and with a smile
that reminded us of the gates of Paradise, he
replied: “ When the people get tired of us.” But
we have talked long enough about the black imps
who make us laugh so often. We’re going up to
the Oaiety to see Grattan Riggs as “ The Irish
Detective.”
* * * «
Of course you know Grattan Riggs, and
If you had any doubts as to his continued popu-
larity, you should have been to the Gaiety on last
Monday night when Grattan opened for a twelve
nights’ engagement. The place was so densely
acked that the people had to hold their breath to
keep from squeezing each other to death. And
the applause? Well, it was simply uproarious.
The star was called before the curtain at the close
of each act, and, although he appeared to want to
hang back, the people wouldn't have it, nor let
him rest until he made an appearance.
* * ♦
Everybody knows the plot of the “Irish
Detective.” We forget who wrote it just now,
but it was written apeclallv for Grattan Riggs to
enable him to display his wonderful versatility as
an actor. During the performance he assumes
seven different characters, in anyone of which you
wouldn’t know your own mother in the street.
His make-up as Pop Corn Juice the ag d clam,
soup peddlar, is by far the best and truest negro
character we have seen in Australia. As Hans
Spellman, the German glazier, you feel sorry that
you haven’t some windows to break, so that you
could set him to work and keep him around. As
Ah Chat, the Chinese pie- vendor, and Mrs. Mul-
doon who sells apples and things, he is so ex-
crutiatingly funny that you can hear buttons
falling all over the floor like the patter of rain on
the roof of the Opera House on a benefit night.
* * *
In the oast appear a number of names that
have not been playing at the Gaiety recently.
There is Harry Stoneman,’ who plays the part of
Richard Stockton : 8. Ryan, who plays Mr. Elton,
and gets killed by Richard in the first act; Mr. H.
vollaire, who plays Karl Meyer, and mends broken
windows ; and C. Edmunds, Maggie Oliver, and
Nitta Steele. This is Nitta’s first appearance in
Sydney. We don’t know where she came from,
but she is pretty enough to stay as long as she
pleases. As Jessie, she is the brightest little decoy
duck that ever ran at large, and it is no wonder
that William Hoyt (Mr. Appleton) falls in love
with her on sight. And then she is such an inno-
cent little goose that Abigail (Miss Bessie Palmer)
uses her for a decoy without her knowing it. As
a rule, decoy girls are hardly so innocent as that,
but they are all just about as pretty.
♦ * *
Maggie Oliver’s forte we think is panto-
mime. Some women are that way. They show
off best in' pantomime. She isn’t a bit like a New
York servant g*rl. In the first place she doesn’t
paint enough, and in the next she is altogether
too slangy. Worse still, the slang she uses is Aus-
tralian rather than American. Everybody wanted
to see Maggie do the dance the programmes pro-
mised, but she didn’t for some reason or other.
Either her skirts were too long, the carpet in the
way, the footlights too strong, or something. At
any rate, she didn’t dance, but she sang an Irish
ditty in a mannish sort of way that made you look
at her twice to see if the dimples were genuine or
only painted ones.
* * *
Adolphus Tiverton is an absurd character,
but D’Arcy Stanfield manages to get a good deal
of amusement out of it. In this role he is more of
an artist and less of a Stanfield than in anything
we have heretofore seen him do. The character
is supposed to represent a New York masher, but
the New York masher is altogether a different
Serson from what D’Arcy makes him appear,
[owever, it is very funny for all that, and as the
audience liked it, we are not disposed to complain.
Sam Poole’s Johnnie Lemmens was a laughable
creation, but we saw just a little too much of him
at times. And he shouldn’t talk about 6d. restau-
rants in New York. He can find any number of
ten-cent eating houses and dime restaurants in the
metropolis of the Western world, but no sixpenny
ones. Our Yankee cousins would have to carry a
slate and pencil around with them continually, if
they had to figure out the price of their board in
shillings and sixpences.
♦ * ♦
Edwin Palmer’s Jim Thug was a good
representation of the Bowery “ tough ” We have
seen Mr. Palmer in a good many roles, and he
always seems to play with an intelligent concep-
tion of the demands of the piece. Oh, by the way,
we forgot to tell you that Mr. Palmer is the author
of the pretty set of waltzes that were so greatly
admired during the run of “Passion” at the
Gaiety, and of the Grand March which the orches-
tra played through the “ Money Spinner.”
When Mr. W. J. Wilson sidled up to the
footlights on Saturday night to thank tne artistes
for triving- him a benefit and the audience for
attending, the thought that should have been
uppermost in his mind was that he wasplarted
straight in front of one of the biggest crowds that
have lately chosen the Opera House for a night's
fun.
• « •
Rossini’s ever-green overture to “Semira-
mide ” opened the ball. The allegro passages in
this familiar work seemed to us to have been
taken too slow, so that when the curtain rose on
“ Everybody’s Friend ” the audience settled down
for some innocent enjoyment. They got it. As
the Militia Major, Wellington De Boots, Mr. Polk
was in his element. Until we saw his head we had
but an elementary conception of the colour “ red.”
A piece of raddle would make a green mark on it.
So long as warriors like De Boots stand behind the
throne there is little fear of that Institution
giving way. And his wife—Mrs. Bryer ! If her
smile wa« seductive her frown was terrible. She
generally frowned—especially when De Boots was
in sight. We have seen Mrs. Bryer as an outraged
wife, and as an insulted mother-in-law. There
was little in Saturday night’s play to arouse
her anger, except the standing grievance of
having married a fool—a grievance which
many sensible women we know, have always
on hand. When Mr. Booth man yawned as his
pretty wife, Jessie Grey, read to him, and observed
in a painfully audible “aside”: “How I’d love
her if she was some other fellow’s wife,” an ex-
pression of general acquiescence appeared on the
faces of all the bald-headed men in the pit. The
first question an experienced coroner puts at an
inquest on a murdered woman is : “ Was she in
the habit of reading to her husband ?” As Frank
Icebrook, Mr. Forbes can introduce more well-
balanced imbecility into his face—and keep it
there—than any person outside a lunatic asylum.
Owing to distance, we could not tell whether the
expression was natural or assumed, but think it
must be the latter, as no intelligent policeman
could suffer a person to be at large who was so
gifted naturally. No one was ever so foolish as tie
looked, As ;the widow Swansdown Mrs. Polk was
as buxom and captivating as widows usually are
who have decided for another dip in the matrimo-
nial tontine, while Miss Jessie Grey as Mrs. Feath-
erly Suggested the old conundrum of why a man
prefers the sour apples in his neighbour’s garden to
the luscious fruit in his own.
» ♦ *
Then there was a concert, the gem of
which was a romance by Robau<R. Miss Deakin
sang in a sweet, well-attuned, sympathetic, small
voice, and Herr Patek played a “ cello ” obligato.
At least, we don’t know whether ’twas Herr Patek
or not—we only know he didn’t play a “ cello,”
unless that instrument has been pared down since
we were a boy. But, whatever it was, it was nice to
listen to. And Miss St. Clair, Messrs. Hallewell and
Shannon sang. They were all good in their way,
particularly Shannon, some of whose high tenor
notes would pass muster among far more exacting
crowds,
• i •
There was a farce, for which we did not
remain. It was a new one, by Mr. Wybert Reeve,
and the temptation to stay and listen to that
talented writer’s latest trifle was only outweighed
by the certainty of having to “foot it” for three
miles if we missed the tram. We almost forgot to
say that the Huenerbein freres were the moving
spirits in this successful benefit. Charlie fought
with the piano in his most successful style, while
to another brother fell the pleasanter task of pre-
siding over the champagne department. We lost
none of the music, but, somehow, the champagne
missed us.
• » » «
We went to “Impulse” again, the other
night, and found the Theatre Royal crowded, as
usual. Everything that the present management
have brought to this favourite place of amuse-
ment has drawn like a Poor Man’s Plaster on a
copper kettle. There are two important reasons
for this. In the first place the pieces have been of
a high order for modern drama, and in the next
place the cast has been particularly strong. There
are Titheradge, Day, Redwood, and Flemming;
Maggie Moore, Annie Mayor, and Annie Taylor.
Miss Taylor’s representation of Miss Kilmore, a
gossiping, mischief-making old maid, is done with
faithfulness to the text. The old girl is just the
sort of woman who haunts society circles, and
without whom no social gathering is complete.
The hostess is afraid of her tongue, and so invites
her; the guests are afraid of her venom, and treat
her with marked consideration; for these reasons
such characters as Miss Kilmore are tolerated in
society, but on the stage Miss Taylor gives to
them an abundance of absurd humour, that makes
you wonder that they are not in great demand as
social entertainers.
• • •
Captain Crichton, as personated by Mr.
Titheradge, seems like an impossible character to
the native Australian. In this new world, the fop
has to take a back seat when the stern business of
the hour demands action. But it is a matter of his-
tory that the fops of Old England have won her
greatest battles. So we need not wonder that the
society Captain should show any amount of cour-
age when there is anything to call it out. And,
anyway, Captain Crichton has fallen in love with
the pretty Mrs. Beresford (Maggie Moore), and if
that isn’t enough to make a man feel his spurs, w«
don’t know what is.
We like Annie Mayor’s Edith Macdonald,
only she is just a trifle too spasmodic at times.
And the actress has a way of straining her eyes in
all the melancholy places! that isn’t exactly pleas-
ing to those who sit close enough to use an opera-
glass to much advantage. When anything startles
her, she gasps as though she were just recovering
from a bad attack of cramp. Seeing her once or
twice, you don’t notice this, perhaps: but it gets
rather monotonous after weeks of witnessing.
The little woman’s husband has been away for
three years, and she has been subjected to the
alluring words of ajformer lover. Perhaps that is
what makes her gasp so at times. w e are con-
strained to give it up, however, as life is too short
to be devoted to fruitless speculation.
* * *
Mr. Redwood’s Sir Harry Auckland is such
a clever piece of acting that there is nothing left
to criticise. The manner in which he plays deaf,
and breaks MlssKilmore all up when she has a bad
cold and wants to tell him a lot of scandal about
his own daughter, always convulses the house;
and the way he brings his son-in-law to task for
neglecting his wife is convincing evidence that
Sir Harry is justly entitled to the knighthood he
enjoys. But an actor cannot do everything, and
were it not for the clever lines of the author
Mr. Redwood’s conception of the part would be
next to impossible. But we have stayed long
enough at “ Impulse.” If you want to see it, you
must do so before Saturday night, as on that even-
ing Genevieve Ward appears at the Theatre Royal
in “Forget Me Not,” supported by Mr. W. H.
Vernon.
* * * *
A benefit to Signora Fabris is announced
for Tuesday next, at the new Masonic Hall. Any-
thing which tends to keep so excellent an artiste
anchored firmly in Sydney merits encouragement.
As Signora Fabris has the assistance of Madame
Charbonnet, Messrs. Hodge and M’Lean, besides
other professionals, and her pupils, the attraction
alone should fill the hall.
MRS. ANNA M. L. POTTS, M.D.-See page 13.


Au honorable member paid Mr. Buchanan
a high compliment, the other day. He rem *™!L
disdainfully that Mr. R. had turned loose upon
society more scoundrels than any other man
Australia. This was, of course, simply to descrm
Mr. Buchanan as a good lawyer.
PEPPER AND SALT.
Out of the mouths of babes coraeth wis-
dom, trowser buttons, profanity, and divers other
articles too numerous to mention. In a town,
within cooey of Cobar, a few Sundays ago, the
reverend minister was present, in the Sawbath
school, for the purpose of presenting prizes to the
most successful young workers in the cause of a
mission to the “pore little heathen,” and, of
course, all the local magnates were rounded up on
the-platform to give a tone to the gay proceedings.
Advancing to the front, the godly parson addressed
the young ’uns:—“ Now, my deah little childer-ren,
I have a pleasing duty to perform. What is that
duty ? Is it to give you a holiday, or to treat you
all to buns, and cakes, and lollies?” (Here the
kids’ interest went up to 75 O’ Farenheit.) “ Ah, no.
It is food for your minds I have for you to-day.”
(Interest suddenly fell four feet below zero.) “Yes,
my deah childer-ren, I have some religious books
here, which I intend to present to those who have
worked well in a grand cause. Now, what is that
grand cause ?” And then a tow-headed little mis-
creant at the bottom of the row, yelled out:
“Pleath, thir, it’s thlcking people up for money. I
got four an thix, sir, an’ Mither B , the noos-
paper man nex y’ there, thir, said, ‘ Dam ef you
wasn’t allers wantin’ somethin’ ’.” Chaos I
* * *
See what it is to be a spoiled child of For-
tune! Mr. J. L. Parsons, of South Australia, al-
though he has not been three years in office, will
be allowed to retain the title of Honorable, in con-
sideration of his position as Government Resident
of the Northern Territory. This is enough to
make the devils laugh. We are not now referring
I to the case of Mr. Parsons particularly. We do
not know that gentleman, and we do not want to.
But we do know certain persons in this colony who
are on the way to the same goal. And we are not
proud of their acquaintance. There are among
them men who would stop at nothing dishonour-
able in order to gain the title of Honorable. It is
painful vanity of this kind that has brought so
many persons down to C.M.G.-ism. When these
people make their little piles, they go to Europe to
air their titles and take their place among the
aristocracy. London is their Mecca. If they are mil-
lionaires they are admitted into a certain elastic
sort of society, which would eat dinners provided
by Judas. Yet, oven the persons who compose
this set deem it their duty to ridicule their hosts.
So the Honorables find before long that they are
regarded as a kind of circus, the cost of which is
all on their own side. And even those who conde-
scend to drink their wines are not without sus-
picions that they have amassed their wealth by
bushranging or by murdering their masters.
They tell a story of a colonial magnate who
called upon an English nobleman at his town
house, and was told by the footman who
opened the door that the way to the stables
was round by the back lane. The footman
thought that the C.M.G. was a friend of the coach-
man. We don’t believe this story. We think
better of English coachmen. Those who are now
walking “ambition’s diamond ridge ” will do well
to remember that, as a rule, and notwithstanding
the proverb about prophets, the man who is
thought ill of in his own country will not be
thought well of in any other. Having said so
much, we will also say that we have known some
Honorables who were honourable, and some
C.M.G.’s-wc know this is a bold assertion, but we
risk it—who were not much worse than mlgh
have been expected. But these were the brilliant
few.
» * •
Stimulated by the partiality evinced by
Dr. Moorhouse, Bishop ,of Melbourne, for the
fragrant weed, and the prompt manner in which
he “settles up.” a well-known tobacconist of
Stawell has been induced to,advertise a certain
description of tobacco sold by him as “The
Bishop’s Mixture,” and those who are judges say
it’s no slush of a mix, either. The enterprising
Stawell joker has small placards issued, drawing
attention to the mixture, and announcing his busi-
ness as “under the distinguished patronage of the
Right Rev. James Moorhouse, Bishop of MeL
bourne.” All we yearn for, now that Bishop
Barry has stood up so manfully and sensibly for
the moderate drinkers, is for one of our local
swanky manufacturers to start a new style of
“tangle” and christen it “The Bishop’s Own
Brew.” This would take well, and it could be
followed by “ The Canon’s Cordial,” “The Dean’s
Delight,” and “ThePriests’ Particular Plzun.”
• • •
A German paper, published in Cologne i
publishes the written sentence of Pontius .Pilate
on Christ, and the solemn Antiquarian Review
repeats the yarn with all due hods of learned
bricks and mortar—how the document was kept in
a convent in Naples, afterwards engraved and
bought by Lord Howard, &c. The first discovery
was in 1380—twelve hundred and fifty
Pontius bad handed over his notes to the reporters
of the Jerusalem Evening News. This learned
foolery is getting nauseous. Which man of these
learned blockheads could be imposed on in the
matter of a half-crown basket of onions on such
testimony? It is the bare truth, that men whom
you can outwit in a shilling transaction, seem to
think that in the solemn consideration of religion
you only want the very dregs of your intellect.
And the lowest dregs at that.
TO THE SEA.
[BY A “NEWCHUM” SLADEN.]
I love the sea, the surging sea,
I love the bounding billow—
(There’s something wrong, to-night, with me,
I’ll seek an early pillow.)
How gloriously the huge waves flash,
With snow-white foam so fringy I
(I wonder what was in that “ hash ”
That so disturbs my “binjie.”)
How grand it is to watch them dash,
And roar, and fume, and frolic—
(I think I’ll try a brandy smash,
I feel as though I’d colic.)
Our vessel cleaves the hissing tide;
Now, mark her grandly “ duck ” it—
(The devil’s loose in my inside,
Oh, someone bring a bucket!)
P.S.-
And now I’m landed safe on shore,
I’m rocked by no wild billow,
But all night, on a cold rock, snore —
I’ve got no other pillow.
Buchananism. A Problem.
MR. SMITHERS, M.L.A.: “WHAT I TWINS I GOOD GRACIOUS I HOW VERY THOUGHTLESS OF MRS. SMITHEBS, WHEN SHE KNOWS HOW UNPLEASANT DIBBS HAS BEEN
MAKING HIMSELF LATELY, AND ONLY ONE VACANCY IN THE PAP-INSPECTION DEPARTMENT. HOW ON EARTH AM I TO GET A BILLET FOR THE SECOND ONE?" (Weeps).


A KING FOR A NIGHT.
We referred the old veteran to our short-
hand friend, because we had important business
on hand, having to convince a resident of Sludg-
ville who was twelve months in arrears that, on
the whole, we should run The Boolytbbn in our
way, but, should we ever start a weekly paper up
there, we would consider the tastes of that damp
region. All the time we were talking we could
hear the old man’s voice in the next room, and
here’s his yarn
“I was born a month before time, and, al-
though crippled in the feet, was taught to walk
at the age of eight months. At seven months
I thought I saw what waa coming, and pleaded
for a two months’ bill. But the times were
hard, and my parents were so poor that they
could not give me time. The result anyone might
have foretold. My bones were soft, and i became
bandy-legged. Being bandy-legged, I frequently
fell. Palling too often, my knees became oon-
tused. Abscesses finished the work. At nine years
of age, both legs were amputated, and the undue
strain on a narrow chest brought on congestion of
the lungs. Typhoid fever gave a permanent warp
to my brain; and at thirteen, having failed to show
any capacity for shoemaking, owing to deficiency
of knees to slap leather on. my parents adopted
the only course open, and set me on for literary
pursuits; ‘for.’ they reasoned, justly, ‘ everything
we understand, you are manifestly unfit for. This
thing we do not understand. That, therefore, is
your only chance.’
•
“ Three-score years rolled away, and I had
made literature my own. I could spell fairly, write
decently, «nd be happy with poultices and a pair
of new wooden legs and a fresh trepan on the head
once a year. It was one of those nights when I
had revolved the get-up of this world, and tried to
get the hang of it, as it were, that I read a curious
speculation somewhere to this effect. “Suppose
a beggar were to live his beggarly life from six in
the morning to six in the evening, and then go to
Bleep, and dream consistently for the next twelve
hours that he was a king; whether he would know
which was the real life?’ I say ‘conslstantly,’
because dreams are often mixed up. You might
be a king one night, and a sixteen-legged centipede
the next. The supposition is, that just when you
left off as king last night, you resume this night.
Well, I dreamt I dwelt in marble halls for one
night. I was King for a Night. And I would be
something like a king too. I refused Utopia; was
not fit to negociate for Heaven ;—could not risk a
transaction with the devil, and so I hunted for a
region outside of all. It looks now, like a mixture
of Dante’s Inferno, the Fantod dream of a drunk-
ard, a chapter out of Moore’s Lalla Rookh thrown
in, and a dash of common sense. I take the liberty
of a monarch, and strike the thing right away.
* * *
“I dreamt I was a kiag somewhere or
other, and had absolute power. I could do what I
chose. The country was at peace. Revenues
flourishing, land bills administered without cor-
ruption ; education bills discussed without venom;
elections contested with patriotism, and every
peasant, A la Henri IV., had a fowl in his pot.
Now, there was a King in Thule, who fancied him-
self much But I beat him. I was crowned in a
palace built of the clearest cut stones of the
world, where the ruby turned pale, and the sap-
phire lost its colour before the pure brilliancy of
the strange mines of an Unknown Land. Kohi-
noors were as clinkers, opals as old rags, and
jasper crowns on a golden pavement as an old shoe
against the wail. So rich. Then for happiness. I
had perfect health in a perfect climate, and perfect
peace in a perfect home. I had a good many little
private diversions besides. Sometimes, when I
was weary of beauty and loafling, I went in for a
little wholesome gore: I hanged poets who had no
poetry, guillotined patriots who had no country
outside the hungry paunch their two legs hawked
about, scholars who talked foolishness, and
priests who practised it. I made my poor
relations use the hod and the spade, when
they wanted to use the pen, the Bible, and
the collection-box ; and I made the rich ones
remember the days when they hadn’t a shoe
to their foot. I had parks, and domains, and
castles ; some used by the descendants of men
who had given the Royal Family help in the wars
In old time, and who hadn’t forgotten us when
they controlled army contracts. I had a few
bishops left who stood by the faith once delivered
to the saints, and remained poor—all of whom I
burnt, as muohftbetter adapted for another world
than this. I hanged a few fellows who were
troublesome, and banished a few who were too
cautious to* meddle openly. I had perfumes
from the cedared valleys of the Hesperides.
I had no end of scented soap, and fresh tripe, and
plugs of tobacco, and a clean shirt every day
without a button missing. Talk of boots I I had
pairs and pairs, standing over against the wall,
ready polished and dusted. But it sometimes hap-
pened that when I strolled through a park alone,
drinking in the fresh air, and pondering some fresh
means of revenue, and how to overcome the un-
natural dislike of taxation on the part of the
people, my pleasure was spoiled. I would come
across a hungry, ragged, scarecrow, stretched at
full length under one of the seats on which I some-
times rested my royal frame. On questioning
these men, I got but one reply—they were literary
men out of employment. Being a king, I wa« ex-
asperated with these loafers. One day I found a
venerable old man was sound asleep on my
favourite seat, and I had to prod him with
my sceptre pretty hard before he woke.
When he did rise, he fixed mo with an
eye like the Ancient Mariner. 4 Bloated monarch.’
he began, stuffing his hair down through the hole
in his hat. and tying on a blucher and a half with a
piece of hemp. ‘Bloated monarch, knowledge is
more sacred than wealth, and must prevail. I
have lived on banana-peel for a month, and feel
the inspiration within me. Be paralysed.’ With
that I was spell-bound. He removed my. crown,
and placed it on his own frowsy head, handing mo
a sort of boiled engine-wipe. He stripped me, and
dressed himself in my apparel, and left me stand-
ing and shivering. The villain passed away like a
vision, brandishing my screptre, the parks tied, and
there was a voice howling in my ear, ‘Out of this,
wid yiz! the Unemployed biz. is played out! clear
now.’ My royal park was the Domain.
• • •
“That happened last night,” concluded the
old man, as he passed down to the accountant,
with an order for his yarn, and out over the way
to concoct another with the assistance of the Brit-
ish Island of Jamaica.
The S.M. Herald thinks that the Head
Quarters of the British High Commissioner for
the Pacific should be at Sydney or Brisbane.
Not haring heard of any assassination-
revivals from Russia for the last week or so, we
are beginning to think the mirth-loving Ruskys
are having rather a slow old time of it. In point
of fact, we have only two items of any kind what-
ever from the land of the Great Bear to-day; and
as we know one of these items to be untrue, and
the other to be a crimson lie, we don’t attach very
much importance to either of them. Scrap the
first informs us that the “ Princess Dolgoroukl,
the widow of the late Czar, has arrived in Paris
with her children and a large suite, and intends to
stay for some weeks at her villa in the Champs
Elysdes.” Like “ mobled queen,” the “ widow of
the late Czar” is good; but, in some parts of the
world, this amiable lady would be designated by a
less euphonious title. Item the next asserts that
“the heir-apparent to the Russian throne will be
declared of age this month, and there will be grand
rejoicings in honour of the glad event.” Of course
there will. First of all, they’ll rig the young ’un
up in a suit of Ned Kelly’s armour, and then they 11
head him up in an iron tank, lock this tank In a
monster fire-proof sate, and bury the lot under a
cellar floor attached to the kitchen of the Kremlin.
Meantime, the Nihilistic patriots will see to the
grand rejoicings, by blowing up a few thousand
inoffensive citizens. The police will then arrest
forty or fifty innocent men; and, after torturing
the poor devils for six weeks to let out what they
don’t know, the lot will be shot to feed the Court
pigs with. They have a childish love for “ grand
rejoicings in the land of the Czar, but their par-
ticular kind of hilarity is not always the thing to
suit strangers.
Tha Worm WILL Turn—UP.


Thh Rates of Subscription uj The Bulletin
ara—For one year, 34s.; half-year, 12s. 8d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d. —In advance.
Thb Advertising Kates are 5s. per Inch 1
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
Inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per Inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as followsOn ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £1, postage stamps ©f any Australian
Colony may bo sent, if more convenient.
BRIEF MENTION.
A pressman is always a man of note, but
very seldom holds one.
An Oriental Bank depositor says the
weather of late has been pretty much like his bills
—unsettled.
The adage “a lie has no legs ” won’t work
always. The Brltish-Egyptian al -ly has heaps of
logs to scoot away before the Mahdi men.
A soup in Mexico, made from cockscombs,
is said to bo delicious. In Sydney, we have any
amount of cockscombs’sauce, but it is by no means
delicious.
We have seen a notice of Bishop Barry’s
Prayer Book for Teachers, and it strikes us that a
teacher who wants a book to pray by, wants
praying for.
“ Waiter, bring me a glass of water
straight.” “Sorry, sir, but we don’t keep any o’
them foreign drinks out back here; but there’s
any amount of red-hot whisky handy.”
A Tasmanian exchange chuckles over the
fact that a 141b. mullet was recently found in the
Ouse.” Bah J What of that ? Some of the
‘ mullets ” in our ’Ouse run as high as 14 st.
There are not less than 13,000 windmills in
c instant use in Holland, for drainage. Over here,
e have about the same amount of windbags, and
they too are used for drainage. Drainage of the
public purse.
Somebody proposes to establish a Home
for Drunkards in Sydney. Somebody else sug-
gests that in establishing a home, “advantage
might be taken of the spare ground at Rook-
wood.” This is fine irony.
In London, there is a gastronomic Egyp-
tian craze, just now, and at the restaurants one
may gorge Cairo soup, filet a El Mahdi, macaroni
a la Tokar, Suakim sauce, &c. Why not in Sydney
have M'Eihone soup, filet d “Giraffe,” Buchanan
sauce, &c.
Thus runs a breezy brevity in the “suckin’
eedishin” of a recent Even Nooze :—“ The only
obstruction in Pitt-street to be shortly removed.”
And as the Nooze Itself will be "on the shift”
very soon, we presume this is Alfred’s delicate
style of drawing attention to the fact.
There is one heathen island upon which
the plumpest missionary may tread in safety. The
lust one they ate there suffered from trichinosis,
through no work and all teed, and now the holy
men are taboo there for aye. Even John Lucas
might do a step-dance there unmolested.
In Chicago, when a railway subordinate is
remiss in his duty, and runs the risk of a smash,
they don’t sack him. The fighting “boss” just
steps out, and knocks him out in one round. And
then, when he comes out of the hospital, he’s put
on again, and avoids all smashes, personal or rail-
way, for the future.
John Young never said a truer word than
when he declared contractors to be a body of men
whom very few understood. Theoe’s no doubt
about the contractor being an almighty tall conun-
drum, more especially when he brings on to the
board his little bill of extras. Then, like the
judgments of Providence or Mr. Justice Manning
ho is indeed past finding out.
The barber of the Ashantee Monarch has
a warm billet. That sacred chunk of barbarity has
his face and head run over with the razor every
three days dry, as the normal “ lather ” is taboo.
The barber must use only his left hand, and should
he touch the king with his right, or Inflict the
merest scratch, two body-guards who stand by
shear off his head in a twinkling.
A Camden wedding-party was a bit broken
up tho other day by a local wag, who introduced a
swarm of bees among the bridesmaids as they
were leaving the church. The ladies were very
angry with him. And yet why ? But we suppose
they took it as a reflection on the married couple,
that they could not make honey enough for them-
selves to last through the honeymoon.
The S.M. Herald’s New Guinea corres-
pondent states that the S.B. monsoon Invariably
brings sickness and fever, and thinks it strange,
seeing tnat it blows from the open sea, and crosses
no land nearer than New Caledonia, 1300 miles dis-
tant. Nothing strange about this. Those horrid
recidlvistes again, of course. Jimmy Service
should cable to his Agent-General about it.
The two old friends met in Pitt-street.
“Fwhat are ye doin’ now, Mick?” said one to the
other. “ Bulldin’ and conthractln’,” was the
dignified reply. “ Musha, but ye’re the tunny
man I Where the devil—if it’s a fair question—
did you learn to build ?” “ Fwhere did 1 larn ?
Shure, wasn 11 shtackln’ turrf for Barney Doolan
all wan summer before I kem out to this mur-
dherin’ hole.” Then he “set them up.”
Sometimes it is not good to be too funny.
A reporter on the staff of a solemn, not to say
soporific Melbourne paper, writing about a fire
not long ago, concluded his paragraph by saying,
with regard to the sufferer by the fire, “ he has
our warmest sympathy.” This burst of humour
was too much for the crayfish who edited the
paper. The reporter is over here, now, and his
ready witticisms are said to cause much hearty, if
hollow laughter, among the other unemployed.
“Is it I, Lord; is it I ?” A correspondent,
who ought to know, says :—“ It is the working
men of every church who are underpaid. In
wealthy New Yorit there is not a priest with more
than .£100 a year, and very many of them have
only £50.” In Sydney, a well-known R.C. dignitary
has an income of nearly £5000 a year, but his two
curates get but £65 and £75. We wonder who that
well-known R.C. dignitary is I Perhaps the Dis-
tress will make itself interesting for once, by
trotting out his name.
Some amenities of country journalism.
Tbe editor of the Bega Gazette accuses the editor
of the Bega Standard of returning a complimen-
tary dinner ticket. The Gazette man evidently
considered that by so doing his rival was turning
his back on the first principles of his profession.
His rival seems to have thought that one editor
was enough at a dinner. This is also the general
opinion of caterers. Still, it does seem strange
that he should send back the ticket. Perhaps it
did not inomdo liquor.
A Herald reporter says that in Penrith
“there are only 40 or 50 people eligible to serve on
a coroner’s jury.” There will be quite enough for
him when he goes up there next time. We never
knew before, nowever, that sobriety was a neces-
sary qualification for an inquest juryman. We
have attended several Inquests in this city, and we
can safely say that the only persons present, who
were able to distinguish tho rignt hand from the
left, were tho coroner and the corpse. And our-
selves, of course. But we had our wrists marked.
Hello, Mr. Sunday-school Biographer!
make a note of this lot. A tew Sawbatbs ago, one
Peter Webster, of Grahamstown district (N.Z.),
dropped dead whilst going to church, and, on the
very same day, Jonas Pyke, who was mining near
the same place, turned up a 7« z. nugget of solid
gold. Something wrong in the programme here.
In olden times, Peter would have been taken up to
Heaven in a fiery four-horse ’bus, whilst the
earth would gape wide and swallow Jonas just as
clean as a picnic reporter would suck down an
offensive oyster.
There is a queer burial custom practised
by some tribes of the Maoris. The other day, a
culei called Enoka died. After his death, au his
property was collected—to the value of about £500
— md promptly burnt. Tho reason assigned for
\ ois curious practice ia that where duo respect lor
the dead chief is felt, the tribe can never behold
again what would recall his memory. Even the
new house he had built was burnt. Thisis a pretty
practice. It we were sure It would be carried out
when we died, wo would save up until we could
buy the House of Parliament.
This story is from New Zealand, but bears
a mournfully exact likeness to incidents which
occur here every day. A gilded and embossed
youth, who was better posted in other people’s
affairs than in his own, remarked sneeringly to an
acquaintance, “ Your father was nothing but a
simple stonemason.” “ I know where you got that
Information,” quietly replied the other. “From
where did I get it ?” “ From your father.” “How
do you know that ?” “Because your father used
t® be my father’s hod-carrier.” If every young
man were as ready-witted as this one, the Infir-
mary would become a popular resort.
Indignant citizen to imposing-looking
saynyer sarglnt: “ This is simply growing unbear-
able. Latit Monday, ©very stitch my wife had on
her clothes line was stolen; on Tuesday, 14 of my
best fowls were whipped away, and now some
vagabond has actually scooted round and shook
my watch-dog and kennel. Have I no redress ? ”
Sarglnt Severely: “Is it redrlss y’ mane? Av
coorse y' have. Jhust bring th’ thafe around t’
me, an’ thin oi 11 dale wld ’im in a shtoyle he won’t
furgic.” They say the above is a sketch of life in
Melbourne. Our experience is that it’s a sketch of
lue in every place that can support a policeman
and a “ thafe.”
This is the cheerful advice given on the
Early Closing Movement by lecturer Swinton to
the dry goods salespeople of New York :—“ If the
life of you young men and women is to be nothing
better than going to work at 7.30 in the morning,
and leaving at 7 30 at night, and finally dying at 35
or 40 years of age, then, I say, better universal
suicide, for such a life is no life.” Wonder what
Mr. Swinton would call the life of an editor who
works 7 days a week from 7.30 a.m till 7.35 next
morning, and fills in his spare time reading ex
changes and endeavouring to discover which is
the best way to turn his coat so as to keep the
shiniest spots in the shade.
Knowing old dodgers those London scien-
tists are, to be sure. Some time ago, Proctor, tho
boss astronomer, took to wearing stays, but a
newspaper fiend caught him swimming one day,
and let out the secret. Then Richard Anthony
swore off. It is now asserted, however, that four
of the most distinguished men in England wear
corsets, and no doubt before long the fad will
become highly popular. If a stage-wearing re-
porter's nose looks like a prize Chili, everyone
puts it down to tight lacing, but when an anti-
corset scribe appears with the tamo ruddy bow-
sprit, everyone swears they can smell whisky fifty
yards off. Country papers please copy.
A philanthropic correspondent is good
enough to send us a clipping from one of the daily
papers about a “rain-tree,” which grows in South
America, and has “the remarkable power of ab-
sorbing an d condensing the humidity of tho atmo-
sphere.” He thinks this tree might, with great
advantage to squatters and others, be planted in
the dry districts of tho colony. There is, by the
w ay, a similar tree in the Canary Islands. It sup-
p lies tho inhabitants with water all through the
d ry season- No dairy should be without it. If our
c orrespondent could have told us something about
a tree that would distil shandygaff from the at-
mosphere, he would have conlened a far greater
boon upon an arid but not ungrateful public.
Come closer. There. So you want to
lanow why Henry George has abandoned his in-
i .ended visit to Australia ? Well, the fact ls-don’t
1 et this go further, on your honour—he heard the
Argus and 18.M. Herald were dead against him,
that no great dependence could be placed on the
age, and that even the Milparinka Slogger.
•was not to bo trusted. Still, as lie had chosen his
•cabin, ne determined to come. But his wife
dreaded the voyage, and so put on his desk a late
\ number of a Victorian journal. Then he forfeited
his passage-money, anu started for New York to*
I stop any further issues of “ Progress and Poverty”
1 and call in as many as he could. What was the
j journal? Whisper-and remember your promise
'• — u, wuB the Melbourne Puncu.
Father Julian Woods is evidently not a
Boothian. When one evening he arrived at
Madisen, in the course of his travels in Java, he
tells us that before going to bed he imprudently
drank a glass of water. Water is all very well as a
beverage when treated by that old invention which
makes it into beer, or when joined in a discrimina-
tive way with Glenlivet, or Cognac, or that kind
of thing, but neat, faugh ! We wonder the good
padre so far forgot the respect due to his cloth.
There are not many of his clerical brethren who
would sin in that way. For our own part, when
evening closes, with something nice to eat, the
best of sleeping doses in water, aye, we meet, but
then (in the language of Lord Neaves) 'tis best to
mention that we deem it not a sin to cheer the
day’s declension by pouring in some gin—or some-
thing spiritual of that sort.
No doubt it would be a good thing were
colonials to be less apt to disparage things colonial.
Yet, still we kinder think that Barry the Most
Reverend (may his girth increase!) hasn’t quite
got the right hang of the “ Oh, it’s only colonial I ”
—which phrase, he tells us, has so frequently struck
him painfully. In speaking to the new chum, the
old chum or native (as the case may be) more often
employs “Ob, it’s only colonial I " Ironically, and
with the pride that sarcastically apes humility
than in absolute disparagement of things colonial.
The new chum, especially if a cockney, is apt to be
almighty uppish and to fancy himself a lot; and to
the old chum, or native, it is very soothing to take
him out of winding, which can the better be done
by feigning to grovel before his almighty know-
ingness, and by proffering to him things colonial
in such a way as to suggest that, though they are
infinitely beneath his notice, they may perhaps
serve him as a make-shift if he will but deign to
employ them.
In an assault-and-battery case, tried at
the Townsville (N.Q.) court, a cabman, called as
witness, deposed that he had “ never heard more
abusive language than that made use of by com-
plainant during his career of 35 years as a cabman.’
The mind shudders at the thonght of what that
language must have been. Townsville is well
known as the home of illuminated blasphemy and
embroidered profanity. What sort of a cursing
prodigy, then, mustthe person lie who could shook
a man—and a cabman, too, of al men—who had
lived there for 35 years I He is losing time up
there. We mean the prodigy. Hlsaevident genius
for Parliamentary oratory would make him
famous down here. There is a vacancy for such a
man just now. Since our brightest star of oratory
went to Europe to dazzle the old civilisation with
his splendid ugliness and slaughter-yard eloquence
there has been a mournful lack of homely vigour
and ornamental invective in Parliamentary speech-
making. Now is the time for the Townsville
terror 1
Some time ago—we forget how long, and
it is not of much consequence, anyhow—a news-
ner agent in a Northern town was nned tor
vering papers on a Sunday. If ho had been
distributing religious tracts, informing people
that the bottomless pit was gaping for their souls
and the worm that never dies was hungrily await-
ing their arrival, it would have been a different
matter. This is not what we have to do with,
though. The defendant was declared guilty, on
the ground that delivering means selling. Says
the local paper: “ It being obvious, then, that pay-
ment would be made at some future time, the
selling was plainly enough proved, and therefore
on that score we think no exception can be taken.
The infantile ingenuousness of this statement sur-
passes anything we have met in Israel tor some
time back. Papers delivered in this manner are-
as far as our experience of rival literature goes
generally paid for with a pick-axe. They circulate
a good many copies of the Rum in this way now.
We don’t know what the experience of the can-
vassers is—but we see a new face every week.
A genius, who calls himself “Logic” (on
the lueus a non lucendo principle) remarks, in a
letter to the Rum, that M’s.P. who may feel
“ squeamish about giving a negative vote to the
Lotteries Bill, may be easy in their consciences,
when they remember that they have warrant for
supporting lotteries in the sacred Gospels, for we
hear of lots being cast repeatedly in the Old Testa-
ment.” We don’t profess to be strong in the Bibli-
cal line, and we admit we never knew until in-
structed by “Logic” (per favour of their rever
ences who boss the Rum caboose) that there were
any sacred Gospels in the Old Testament (except
that we’ve heard Isaiah called a fifth evangelist,
by way of a mild joke.) If, however, “Logic” be
right, and the sacred Gospels of the Old Testament
are to be accepted as a warrant of lottery-holding,
because we repeatedly read in them of lots being
oast, they must be held, likewise, to be a fellow’s
warrant should he marry his sister, tell holy lies,
Eerseoute those who differ from him in religious
ellef, murder his enemies, or generally play hell
in a promiscuous Old Testament sort of way. No I
we were right at first. “ Logic ” is an .
Mrs. Anna M. L. Potts, M.D.
There Is little room to doubt that the natural
delicacy of feminine sentiment will steadily assert
Its influence, and that ere long physicians and
surgeons of their own sex will be almost exclu-
sively resorted to in cases of ailments peculiar to
women, and in the practice of obstetrics. In most
parts of the world there are now colleges where
young ladies can go through a regular course of
study, and several universities grant their diplo-
mas to students, without distinction of sex, whose
competence is satisfactorily proved. Among
tho pioneers of the coming army of lady physi-
cians, Mrs. Anna Potts, M D., whose portrait we
five, is the first who has visited Australia. Mrs.
otts, then Miss Longshore, was one of the first
class of medical students and graduates of the
Female Medical College of Pennsylvania, located
at Philadelphia, the first regularly chartered col-
lege for the medical education of women In
America, which was opened with a full faculty in
the month of September, 1850, near a third of a
century ago. Her elder brother and preceptor,
Dr. Joseph S. Longshore, was the prime mover in
and originator of the scheme, through whose effi-
cient and untiring efforts the college was char-
tered and established, and hence was the real
founder; he became one of the corporators, and
for a considerable time held the chair of Professor
of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children
therein, and was otherwise well-known as an
author of medical works, and as a lecturer. After
graduation, Mrs. Potts, before her marriage, com-
menced the practice of medicine about 1853, in her
native town, Attleborough, Bucks country, Penn-
sylvania, removed thence to Philadelphia, and then
to Adrian, Michigan, but in all these places she
acquired a reputation for skill and success; yet,
feeling called to a new and wilder field of labour,
for the past twenty years she has devoted the
greater part of her time, her energies and talent
to the deliveries of courses of lectures on anatomy,
physiology and hygiene, and has made a specialty
of the treatment of complicated disorders and
various forms of chronic disease. She has lectured
with great success in all portions of America, and
as a publle speaker of clear tone, a ready and im-
pressive delivery, of chaste and appropriate
language, she enchains an audience by her forcible
style, by the enlivening interest she invests in her
topic, by apt illustrations and by the power of her
persuasive eloquence. Mrs. Potts is an honorary
member of the Pennsylvania Medical Society,
and an active member of the Medical Society of
Illinois. She is at present lecturing at the Opera
House, Sydney. During her visit to Australia
Mrs. Dr. Potts has done a most extensive profes-
sional business.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“ Enquirer” : No. It was Mr. James
Caddy, the late president of the Owl Club, who
was elected secretary the other day. He had a
majority of 187 votes....” Wm. Jenkins” (Walls-
end): Will see. Do not publish extracts unless
they are exceptionally good. Have too much
crisp, original matter to work up....“E.W.
asks”: What is “picture copal varnish” used
for?” and “Would it do to offer an Xmas
box of money to the attendants at the Public
Library?” Some correspondent may be able to
answer the first. As for the second, we hold
strong views, and think it unquestionably wrong
to offer presents to any public officers. We know,
of course, that N.8. Wales officials, in trams, rail-
ways, libraries, &c., would at once decline such
“tips,” and probably give the profferers in charge,
but, is it right to tempt those poor people?
....“Charley D.”: No, Charles, we will not in-
sert your wee bit of spite. You sent it to
the wrong Bulletin, old man. Because that
young woman (success to her) at Boollgal, or
wherever it was, gave you “turnips ” you want us
to tell the public how big her feet are, and where
she got her dress made. What the d — is it to us
where she got it, or if it fits her or not, so long as
she paid fer it, or got you or some noodle like you
to stand it ? Her feet may be “ crushers,” as you
say, but they are, no doubt, useful, and about the
best use she can put them to is to wipe them on
you the next time you travel that way. By bye,
Charles. Will be glad to hear from you again....
“ Subscriber”: Cannot say, A letter to any Sydney
bookseller would elicit the desired information....
"Nemo”: Thanks for your little joke. We do not
Srlnt it this time, as it appears a trifle familiar,
an’t say where we saw it, though—whether in the
Talmud or Confucius. By the way, any trifles you
come across in Herodotus, or any o’ them chaps,
send along. Our facetiae have been a little stale
recently, and we want some late quips to keep us
going ... A correspondent complains that the blue
ribbon worn by the teetotal postmen is precisely
similar to that from which dangles the Victoria
Cross. He took the decorated letter-carriers
for discharged soldiers and sailors, who had earned
that coveted distinction. Oddly enough, it is
from this very cause that we left off wearing our
ribbon after the dangers we went through to get
it. Sainted Isaac! the tons of salt-horse, oceans of
beer, and reams of tracts we got through for the
right to wear this inch of blue, and now every
converted hodman or repentant bar-bummer has
the same privilege ...“Peeping Tom”: No. It is in
a Northern, not a Southern town, where business
is so brisk that the local bank manager keeps a
stud horse and the ledger-keeper acts as groom.
It is only right that Dank officers who have to keep
up appearances—to be the leaders of ton in their
districts- should be allowed some slight privileges.
...“ Clodhopper” : It was Sir H. Parkes, not Mr.
Buchanan who interviewed the Kiama ghost.
Whether the apparition was respectable or not wo
are entirely unable to say, but, from the company
it kept, it was probably no better than other ana
less bumptious spirits.
THE UNEMPLOYED AGAIN.
“ THE MAN YOU CAN GIT TO WORK FOR NOTHING, AND BOARD HIMSELF, WILL JEST
ABOUT EARN HIS WAGES.”— Josh Billings.
“ THERE IS A TIDE,” &c.
FIRST GOVERNMENT CLERK ; “COMB NOW, ED., TELL ME FRANKLY—ARE YOU HARD
SECOND DITTO: “NO, THANK HEAVEN, I HAVE PLENTY OF MONEY JUST NOW.”
FIRST G. C.: “THEN, LEND ME A POUND, WON’T YOU?”


— —
The achievement that gave to the world
Wolfe's Schnapps, will live In the history of
curative science as long as the human frame is
subject to natural diseases.
“Rougb on Hats.”— Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks. Jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses.
Moss & Co.. Sydney. General Agents.
Eat and Live.— Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures fndigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system •
nourishing and giving new vigopr to the entire
human organisation. vVholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros,, Prosser, Hotfnuug, Feldheim, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 106
Market-street, Sydney.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adv ser and Mining Titles,
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Ann.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS
Les extremes se touchent. At an entertain-
ment held the other evening at 8t. Matthias's Hall,
Paddington, the Standard Barry took the chair,
while ‘‘Father ” Kemmis read selections I
The reading-room of the Albury Me-
chanics’ Institute to be opened henceforth on
Sunday afternoons. The bigots, headed by the
local Presbyterian parson, unsuccessfully opposed
the motion.
On a late Sunday, Congregational parson
Jefferis, in really eloquent fashion, implored men
and matrons, young men and maidens, to make a
mighty big effort to teach the unteachable to the
lambs of his flock.
The Rev. Dr. Geikie has been LL.D.-ed by
the Queen’s University, Kingston, Canada—why, it
would puzzle an archangel to know. Still, if the
?ulte meaningless compliment pleases him and his
rlends, we’ve no objection.
Miss Gordon Gumming, who is not a missionary,
and who did not write for the purpose of crying
up missions, declared that while in 1835 people of
Feejee were cannibals, there are now 400 churches
and 1400 schools there. Lady Brassey writes that
anybody who wants to see the last traces of
heathenism in Japan had better go soon, as they
are rapidly giving place to Christianity.
The Rev. J. Auohinlech-Ross has bidden
farewell to Queanbeyan, and, accompanied by his
celebrated dawg that was littered by a slut that
belonged to a live lord, proceeded to pastures new.
Mr. Ross entertains views about the nobility not
very dissimilar from those of the Anglican curate,
who, fearing lest a titled parishioner might be
offended at being classed as a mere woman, thus
implored the Divine protection for her : “ Lord,
save this Lady, thy servant,” instructing his clerk
to respond, “ Who putteth her Ladyship’s trust in
thee.”
Bishop Thornton preached lately at Ingle-
wood, and explained to the innocent villagers
there that certain methods of raising money for
church purposes were very wrong. He doesn’t
think a young lady should sell a kiss with the
object of adding sixpence to the fund for provid-
ing the Incumbent with slippers. He seems to
imply that it is more godly for the young lady to
keep the kiss and let the incumbent go in his socks.
This may be very good sense, but it would be
wrong to hide from him, Bishop and all as he Is.
that it is very bad theology—that Is, as the world
understands the term.
The Yass Courier trusts that, for the
honour of the colony, the bulk of Protestant lay-
men will not follow their pastors in their attempt
to thrust upon the State the task of teaching re-
ligion, and rightly enough remarks“ It is not in
the direction of teaching religion, but in that of
teaching seience that the reform is needed. To
clothe the Public-school teacher with the hood of
the cleric would be an awful mistake. . . . We
protest against any attempt to make of the Public
School proselytising Institutions, and of the Public-
school teachers a cross between a catechist and a
theological professor.”
Thus the Wargiela correspondent of the
Yass Tribune “ Sundaylcrickoting is a favourite
method about here of disposing of the hours of
rest given unto mankind by a merciful Father. I
think it is a great pity a missionary has not been
sent here. It may not be too late yet. O tempora,
O mores.” It is not too late yet for the jolly Sab-
batarian cricketers of Wargiela, who are evidently
sensible fellows, with healthy views as to the
meaning,of rest and the physiological value of
re-action, to take the Tribune’s yassinine con-
tributor by the scruff of his neck to the nearest
lagoon and therei —oh, no I not dnok him in, by no
means.
At the recent hole-in-the-corner meeting
of the soi-disant heads of the Protestant sects, the
Chairman (Bishop Barry) is said to have said that
he declined to have reporters present, because he
desired every one to speak freely. Are we to infer
from this that Bishop Barry, when he publicly
orates from pulpit or platform, does not speak his
mind freely, and that his utterances on those
occasions require to be discounted ? Considering
that the object of the said meeting was one affect-
ing the interests of every member of the com-
munity, and that several of those attending it are
in the receipt of State-paid salaries, the privacy of
their action was not creditable to them.
After years ofpondering over the moment-
ous question, “ Wnat is the happiest life a man
can lead ?” our mind is finally at rest. At a meet-
ing, in Melbourne, of the Wesleyan Local
Preacher’s Association, the chairman concluded a
beautiful address by declaring: “ After all, the
life of a Christian minister was the happiest one—
the life devoted to the extension of the church
and the salvation of souls. What was honour?
What was wealth ? What was position ? What
was name ? These were mere shells—mere mock-
eries.” And yet these simple sentiments emanated
from one who is himself endowed with much
honour, fair wealth, a grand position, and a glori-
ous name. The chairman, in short, is an M.L.A.
In whatever respect the Prince of Wales
may resemble “The Merry Monarch,” Charles II„
to whose reign we owe that disgraceful statute,
the Sabbath Observance Act, he is not, says a
London paper, a canting hypocrite, as the follow-
ing incident serves to show. A poor old woman,
Sarah Sykes, aged 70, was, in April last, convicted
by an Essex bench of magistrates of selling lolly-
pops on Sundays. Her son was inspired with the
idea of writing to the Prince of Wales, calling
attention to this outrage under sanction of law.
With the frankness and bonhomie for which he is
distinguished, the Prince sent a reply, sympa-
thising with the poor old soul, and saying that the
law is a hard and vexatious one, and ought to have
been repealed long ago. Now, Bob Smith, here’s a
chance for you.
The Australian Month, which professes
(as a matter of course) to supply an Anglican want,
in the face of a recent episcopal arrival from the
old country, enunciates the view that “ nothing
emanating from the other end of the world can be
perfectly fitted for the needs of young people of
this end.” Rough on Barry, eh ? The Month also
promises to traverse science and give no uncertain
sound. If it honestly keep this pledge, it will
precious soon lose the episcopal imprimatur. One
“thorough” article on “evolution,” and into the
index expurgatorius (which orthodox Anglican
Church dignitaries maintain as well as their Roman
brethren) would pop the name of the Australian
Month. No! purring on the safe side of the
Anglican fence will be the Month’s line in seience
and other matters, or we are much mistaken-
purring being “no uncertain sound ” to the ears of
clerical tabbies.
The Rev. J. G. Mackie is a more original
man than the world generally is aware of. He
was down at Beeohworth the other Sunday, and
when asked to preach he let out at it right and
left in earnest. He is evidently a man ef strong
convictions, and when once he has made his mind
up to a cause, sneers, obloquy, or persecution will
not retard him. It is not necessary to go beyond
the text he took on that occasion to recognise this.
His text was : “ I am not ashamed of the Gospel.”
There, now I There was pluck in every tone of
Mackie’s voice, fixed determination in every syl-
lable he emphasised.' “Jam not ashamed.” Mackie
is a man that can be depended on. And then again,
the Gospel that a man like Mackie is not ashamed
of must be no small potatoes. When Tommy
Walker and Joe Symes, and Conway, and others
come round talking against it, all anyone in future
need say is : “ Mackie is not ashamed of it.” That
will flatten them.
The Rum is bidding high for Anglican
advertising by its constant reference the big-
brainedness and big-souledness of Primate Barry.
Too much of that sort of palaver, however, may
make even a Bishop sick, so the Rum had better
beware of overdoing it. By the bye, talking of
Barry, we note that in his address to the Y.M.C.A.,
ms Lordship Is reported to have said that “after
’ j® sreatest consideration in their conflict for
the advancement and progress of Humanity was
primarily the struggle against the power of sin,
and secondarily against distress and ignorance.”
The Most Reverend Prelate herein put the cart
before the horse, as the clerical man is apt to do.
Ho should read his Buckle and learn (for he evi-
dently does not yet appear to know it) that the
primary consideration in man’s conflict for the
advancement of Humanity is the struggle against
Ignorance. The advance of civilization and the
general happiness of mankind depend mainly on
their intellectual knowledge, very secondarily on
their moral feelings. Less spiritual dogma, more
practical science, is the true recipe—less darkness,
more light.
Read, mark, and inwardly digest, the
moral that is struck out by the logical collision of
the two pars, that we have subjoined in Juxta-
position
(Prom the 8. M. Herald,
May 30.)
The wife of a clergy-
man of the Church of
England is suffering
from serious illness, and
with her children is in
want of the necessaries of
lif e. Owing to the num-
ber of other pressing
calls, I am unable to
afford this lady the help
she requires. Any sub-
scriptions forwarded to
me will be duly acknow-
ledged ; or, if preferred,
the name and address of
the lady will be given.
James N. Manning, In-
cumbent of 8t. Silas’,
Waterloo.”
(From the 8.D, Tele-
graph, May JO.)
44 After closing all the
the accounts in connec-
tion with the reception
of the Bishop of Sydney,
the committee had a
surplus of £163 3s. 3d.
This has been handed
over to the Primate to
be placed to the credit
of the new reredos fund,
which now amounts to
£460 5s. lid.”
The Rev. C. J. Byng is an uncomfortable
man to have to do with. He believes in several
things, and seems to have spent his life in picking
verses out of the Bible, which fit on, like a glove,
to the things he believes. In listening to him, you
would be in doubt as to whether you had a hold of
Byng according to the Bible, or of the Bible ac-
cording to Byng. And you would be also in doubt
as to whether it mattered a pin which. The only
thing that would worry you would be to ascertain
bow the mischief he skipped so many scriptural
Sassages that tell against him. or how the mischief,
aving rubbed against them, he knocked them out
of his equation. These two questions fill your
mind with angry interest. A week ago he held
forth in Fitzroy upon “ Recognition in Heaven.”
Byng says everybody will know everybody up
there. If you have ten wives here below you wili
have ten wives up there, “ but spiritualised.” One
man got up in church to remonstrate at this stage,
but he was nailed with texts. Another man was
going to get up, but didn’t. He was a pious man,
and he let the question stand till he recognises
Byng in heaven. But where’s Peter? Surely
Peter—the only Peter—could shoot text for text
at Byng across the platform, and have a hatful left.
44 Fifty years ago,” said Earl Cairns, at a
meeting of the Church Missionary Society. 44 if a
man had been shipwrecked on some of the Islands
of the Pacific, he would have been killed, cooked,
and eaten ; whereas if a man were shipwrecked
there now, he would receive Christian hospitality.”
Lord Cairns has just distinguished himself by
prompting his son to do the shabbiest thing to his
affianced wife which has been heard of for a long
time, so that his lordship is naturally great upon
charity exercised a thundering long way from
home. With respect to the South Sea Islands, his
lordship talked bosh. There are islands where
missionaries have succeeded in creating an abnor-
mal condition of Garden-of-Eden placidity, which
contrasts with nothing more strikingly than with
the condition of Christian countries—even the
very countries which sent them forth. But.where-
ever the contact of the normal trader of any
Christian community or race has been experi-
enced, on that island a shipwrecked mariner
would have ten times less chance of escaping a
cruel death than he would have had on any island
in the Pacific fifty years ago, before the excep-
tional Influence of missionaries on the one hand
and the ordinary influence of Christian people on
the other hand nad affected the natives.
Dr. Moran, the new Catholic Archbishop of
Sydney, was when the last mail sailed, com-
pleting his preparations for his departure
for his new sphere of duty ; but it Is likely
that before he starts for Australia he will go
to Rome to be made a Cardinal. His promotion is
regarded amongst Irish Catholics at home as 'a
triumph over the English Catholics, and
it is so regarded by Irish Catholics in
Australia likewise. As an Irish bishop. Dr.
Moran has undoubtedly been a success, naving
Shown great administrative capacity ; but it
is doubtful if he would have been quite so suc-
cessful if he had not in recent years become more
tolerant of Irish popular movements than he was
at the commencement of his episcopal career; and
it is quite certain that what has moat contributed
to his influence with his own people has been his
famous letter, written during the height of the
Land League agitation, in which he laid down the
doctrine that the landlords of Ireland owed resti-
tution to the people. He has always been a very
close student of Irish history, and especially of
Irish ecclesiastical history ; and he has published
several very instructive works in that department
of literature. Altogether, he will be a loss to Ire-
land, though whether he will be a gain to Sydney
remains to be seen.
St. Saviour’s Cathedral opened lately amid
much clerical purring and ecclesiastical high
Jinks. The Primate preached the sermon to the text
“Leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ
let us go unto perfection.” All the surroundings
of the scene forcibly iUustrated how very far they
had left the principles of the doctrine of Christ.
With Ingenious casuistry the boss prelate sought
to prove that the building of a cathedral is a ma r k
of spiritual progress, and of course succeeded in
commending the monstrous notion to ears pre-
pared to receive it; yet, strange to say, it never
seems to have struck e’er a pre'ate, archdeacon,
canon or priest present on the occasion, that a sum
equal to the Interest of the amount sunk in the
erection of the cathedral would go far towards
supplying a staff of teachers to teach that learning
to t&e young which the authorities of the Anglican
Church maintain is essential to be taught. On
aesthetic yet practically useless material—carven
work—they waste the coin of the faithful, and then
go whining around, begging the State to do for
them what with economy and self-sacrlflce they
could do for themselves, if only they had an honest
mind to do it. In all this they are strangely like
those Jews who, when Christ spoke of the temple,
thought he meant the material building on Mount
Moriah, whereas he spoke of his body. No, your
lordship, a cathedral is no mark of spiritual pro-
gress, merely one of more or less ecclesiastical
vanity and more or less architectural skiU.
The N.S.W. Society for the Observance of
the Lord’s Day, in their recently published pro-
gress report, say, inter alia “ The Sunday after-
noon promenade concert at Botany still succeeds
in keeping out of reach of the law, though the
attempt to open similar concerts «t Waverley has
happily failed. Some of the Sydney theatres at-
tract large audiences on Sunday evenings, osten-
sibly for the purpo«e of listening to sceptical
lectures, but really for musical concerts, and with
very largo pecuniary results. All this clearly
points to the necessity for those who love the Sab-
bath to bestir themselves in order to preserve the
inestimable boon which the goodness of God has
provided for mankind.” We sincerely trust the
S.O.L.D. will be “ sold ” in their expectations,
and that they will not be able to bring
Sunday pleasure-seekers within the limits of
a Sabbatarian law of their choosing. If they had
their own sour will, they would act like the unco
guid of Dumbarton, and brand with crime the
impious wretch who takes a walk in the country
on the Lord’s Day. These wicked bigots must be
kept in check. Those who love freedom of opinion
and believe in perfect toleration must be up and
doing, agitating persistently for the repeal of the
odious Caroline statutes that are a disgrace to our
civilization The S.O.L.D. has political power :
not a few of its leading members are crafty
“ underground engineers,” therefore is there all
the more necessity for those who are not sold to
work injustice and intolerance to agitate, agitate,
agitate for a free Sunday, “that inestimable boon”
of which the wickedness of bigots would deprive
mankind. Nine-tenths of those who attend church
learn there hut to wrangle and to
“put for Theology’s rule
The text-capping cant of some brawling fool:”
those who pass their Sundays in cheerful amuse-
ment and merryjrecreation
“Come thence with a lighter heart
And a mind attuned to the better part,
Loving the better their fellow men—
He who denies this is dull of ken.”
Three lights set upon a hill and cannot he
hid. The Rev. Barry, th. Rev. Camm, and the
Rev. Jefferia are all struggling with the problem
how to get religion taught in Government schools:
All three agreed that it should be taught, and all
three differed as to how. One wants “godly
teachers properly trained.” Another wants
“ sound” doctrine, free from dogma, and another
wants—well, what does he want ? Anyhow, here s
what can be got, written by a schoolmaster ;— *• I
can’t sling the maps into a corner and stop in the
middle of thrashing an idle boy. to read the Ser-
mon on the Mount, just when the clock points to a
quarter to four. The clergyman won’t turn up.
The 4 godly layman ’ who does, cannot hold the at-
tention of children for a moment. I do the best 1
can to insist on truthfulness and honesty, and fair
play. But my salary depends on the show my
scholars make on other subjects. I wish that Mr.
Trickett, instead of listening to Jefferies, and the
bishop, would see us grind in the three R’s for a
whole day, and then Judge how much either we, or
the children, want to know of the wandering of
the Jews after that.” All the religion that’s good
for a child must be learned from his mother, or,
falling that, in a Sunday-school.
• * *
“Out with your handkerchiefs: it’s only
Tuesday night, and they’re not very dirty yet,”
was the Major’s invitation to his ‘‘soldiers ” at a
Harmy tea-meeting The champion tory of the
Church: Purga-tory.... The Rev. Alexander Taylor,
Header and Afternoon Preacher at Gray’s Inn,
London, suicided on Good Friday. Like the Dean
of Bangor, sick of theology and yearning for es-
cape from living a He. These kind of cases raise
our opinion of the clergy. They show that here
and there is one to be found with a moral integu-
ment not so hopelessly pachydermatous as to be
Impenetrable by the shafts of honest, manly shame.
Woman Items
Scores of young wives, who can’t tot up the
butcher’s bill at home, can 44 figure ” like anything
in society.
Every girl has, first, the maiden name
given her by her parents, and, second, her own
special maiden aim to get married as smart as she
can.
In view of the preposterously light sen-
tences inflicted by magistrates in savage cases of
wife-beating, Mr. Maciarlane. M.P., has stated in
the House of Commons his determination, when
the Bill for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
got into committee, to move to include women in
the schedule.
A deputation of ladies waited on the
Mayor of New York to urge that matrons should
be employed to attend to women at police stations.
A case had just before occurred where a young
married woman, going home early in the evening,
was seized with giddiness, fell, and was at once
run in as being intoxicated. During the night she
was ill, yet all the time was attended by ordinary
constables, who persisted in thinking her drunk.
This is how a New York dramatic
44 cricket” puts the Jersey Lily through:— 44 It ever
Nature designed a couple of hands to wrestle with
a milking stool and the dasher ef a churn, for that
nature designed those of Mrs. Langtry—large,
loose, coarse, red hands. Her neck is lovely, her
face is handsome, her hair is beautiful, her waist
is aristocratic — but her hands are awful, and
there’s a painful rumour that she can’t enjoy an
innocent little game of draw poker—being unable
to take a hand in, on account of its size.
The wedding-dress of the Jiancee of Sir G.
Strahan, Governor of Tasmania, is quite a depar-
ture from the conventional garb. It is entirely of
white velvet. A long polonaise, made plain and
close-fitting and with rounded corners, almost
covers the beautiful pleated velvet skirt. About
the neck, down the front, and edging the polonaise
is a bordering of swansdown. The high-crowned
hat accompanying the costume is also of white
velvet, with the brim partly rolled up, and over
the crown are crossfolds of velvet. Its trimming
consists of magnificent ostrich plumes, all of the
purest snowiness.
An extraordinary action for libel was tried
recently at Lincoln, England. Captain Charles
Brook, having lost his young wife, caused the fol-
lowing lines to be inscribed on a black-edged
memorial card for circulation among his friends:—
44 Farewell, dear husband and baby dear;
I loved you faithful to the last;
Cruel my mother has been to me,
Which caused my days so short with thee.
May the Lord have mercy on her soul,
And change her wicked heart!”
The lines are from an ancient ballad, to be found,
wo think, either in Walter Scott’s Border Mins-
trelsy or Percy s collection. The captain was sen-
tenced by the court to pay £25 and costs for pro-
mulgating this opinion of his mother-in-iaw.
“Dagonet,” of the London Referee, thus
dramatises 44 a fact”:— 41 Scene : A Private House.
Newly-engaged Cook (who is to come in the next
day): I beg your pardon, mem, but I’ve called to
say I sha n't take the situation. Lady : What 1
after I have been for your character and arranged
everything! And, pray, why not? Cook: Well,
mem, the truth is I’ve met the young lady as lived
cook here before, and she don’t give you a charac-
ter as is altogether satisfactory. Good morning,
mem.” The cook was in the right of it. Getting
the character of the missus should be to the ser-
vant as important a preliminary to an engagement
as it is to the missus to get that of the servant.
And those who don’t think so are pitiful snobs—in
which category Mr. Dagonet must be included, or
else he would never have recorded the above inci-
dent in the way he did.
Mr. Glover has been speaking a 44 word to
the women ” down at Geelong, and warning thorn
against the dangers of indulging in 44 little drops,”
under the mistaken impression that 44 now they
have baby, they must keep themselves up, you
know.” Not being a woman ourselves, we rather
hold with the usually rabid Glover in this parti-
cular matter, and do think that the exhilarating
bottle of stout, and glass of port wine, might be
frequently omitted from the 44 keeping up ” pro-
cess. We are well aware that, when Mrs. Jones
enquires of Mrs. Brown—rejoicing in her own
maternal duties— 44 how she finds herself, lately ’
that Mrs. B. delights to make answer that 44 she’is
pretty well, so long as she keeps herself up, but
feels down ’ directly, if she forgets her stout ”—
which she never does, by the bye. Fes, we know
that the wrath of the delightful sex will fall
heavily upon us, for insinuating that Glover has
pretty nearly hit the bull’s-eye, for once—but we
can’t help it: it’s impossible to go against honest
conviction. And our conviction is that only men
require 44 keeping up,” and only those men that
are engaged in brain work—high-class brain work.
To turn out a par, like this, without previously
interviewing a tumbler, would be simply an im-
possibility.
EXAMINER (anxious to explain the word 44 enough ”): “NOW SUPPOSE YOU GAVE THE
PUSSY-CAT ALL THE MILK SHE CAN LAP. ALL THE MEAT SHE CAN EAT, AND ALL
THE NICE CAKE THAT SHE CARES FOR, WHAT WILL SHE HAVE?”
APT PUPIL (quickly): “ KITTENS ! ”


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index potted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general . I
RACING.
Rylestone - 12"
Mudgoe Tattersall’s June 11,13.
Coonamble *Jnne 31.
victoria°Amateur Turf Club . ..June21.
Coelah JU Tune 28*
Canterbury Park. T ,, £ a in
Clarence River J.C i?‘
Rockhampton J.C • ■■*uy iq
Goondiwlndi A . U £“B* 18 ’ 19 *
TattersalTs Club 21 23
Hawkeabury - August 21, «3.
COURSING.
Berrlma District D nf’ii*
Wagga Club ™ S? 01
Victoria Club June 19, 20, 21.
8. A. Waterloo Cup - Jui Is’ l«‘
V 9 W Ollib J UD6
victoria Waterloo Cup June 16,17,18.
N.Z. Waterloo Cup J * Un <f„ 1 jt’«V 1 r*
N.8. Wales Club August 6, 7, 8.
Victoria Club August 21, 22.
AQUATIC.
Grafton R.C. Regatta June 38*
ATHLETICS.
Thistle Club Sports * June 28.
CYCLING. _
N.S.W. Union Sports June 21.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Newcastle Cricket Club annexed the
Haunell Challenge Cup, with 13 wins out of a
possible 16.
Lord Falmouth’s Busybody earned off
fVifl Oaks rim for &t Epsom* on. <30to M&y* "*•
Peck’s Superba second, and Sir J. Willoughby s
Queen Adelaide third.
Adelaide Racing Club meeting on 31st
May. Acrobat won the Hurdle Rac e ;
the Two-year-old Handicap: Topaz, the City Han-
dicap; and Shylock, the Ladies .Bracelet.
The Victorian cyclists have at length seen
the folly of their ways, and changed the title of
their Union from the Australian to the Vic-
toria Cyclists’ Union.”
Robert H. Bruce, of Gympie, has chal-
lenged Martin Power, the well-known Northern
slogger, to box tor £300, under Queensberry rules.
Martin thinks he has power enough in his bunch
of fives, to make “a bruce auction of hia chal-
lenger.
Messrs. Stewart Brothers state that thev
bred The Agent at Warning, near Warrnambool.
and that be is by Slanderer from a mare by Lands-
horoinrh who was a son of The Premier. They
know nothing further respecting the breeding of
the dam.
The Hon. R. Grimston, fourth son of the
first Earl of Verulam, is dead. At the time of his
death he was president of the Marylebone Cricket
Club, and for many years he took a heen interest
in matters pertaining to the hunting field and out-
door sports generally.
At the first regatta held by the Bega River
Bowing Club, on 21st May, W. Backhouse won the
Maiden race and the Champion race; Atfield and
J. Thompson carried off the Amateur Double
Sculls; B. Hoskins won the Amateur Handicap,
and Davidson defeated Powers m a private match.
A match is on the tapis between Malone
and F, Kobertson, late of landra Station, to come
ntf at Bourkc. Should the men meet, it is to bo
hoped the ground will be measured and time taken
men, so that In the event of pheno-
menal time being made, the record may be authen-
ticated.
The race between Ross and Courtney, of
boat-sawing reputation, contested last Thursday,
must have been upon much the same lines as our
Nepean affair, as they rowed for a purse got up
for the purpose of bringing a new course under
notice. The Penrith affair has shown how much
interest attaches to a race of this sort.
After a great amount of self-denial, the
English crack, Archer, managed to scale fat. 71b. to
ride Whipper In, In the Babraham Stakes, and the
papers say he never rode a better race In bis life.
Toget the weight he was scarcely clad in anything
but bis silk jacket, a very poor protection against
a keen east wind blowing across the Heath.
Mr. James Williamson, now the Hon.
James Williamson, owned the first imported racing
mare In New Zealand. Pitted as she was against
hacks and scrubbers, she of course won all before
her, and she was to be further pittied when the
handicappers piled on weight after each successive
win until at length she had to carry 18 stone.
Every second man you drop across in
Narandera just now has a lump of chalk sticking
out of his waistcoat pocket, the big excitement
being the proposed billiard tournament, for which
no Jess than 50 sucking Robertses have subscribed
their names. “ W. Moriarty,” who receives 100
start. Is at present first favourite, and is considered
well in it.
The Newcastle Jockey Club races, post-
poned from Queen’s Birthday, were run off on
Thursday last in the presence °f some specta-
tors Maggie Moore “struck oil In the Shorts,
Mvra carried off the Prince of Wales Stakes, Silver
won the Hack Race. Tom Brown annexed the
Birthday Gift, and Whisper Low won the Consola-
tion Stakes.
At the Australian Coursing Club meeting,
on Friday last, the St. Leger, for puppies, was won
by J. B. Scott’s Silver King, by Silent—Sunflower;
H. Patterson’s Philistine, by Laml-Biviere, the
runner-up. The Railway Stakes, for all ages, fell
to W, M’Culloch’s Master Robin, by Robin Hood—
Shasta W. J. Wiggins’ Wiwoonawa, by Registrar-
General—Western Princess, the runner-up.
It seems a pity that Gulliford’s backers
thought fit to back out of the Matterson match.
Gal Ilford is a man of exceptional physique, rows
In better than fair style, and Is Improving every
row be takes. He was heavily handicapped in
more ways than one at the Nepean, and had the
Matterson match gone on we feel pretty sure he
would have given a good account of himself. It
is to be hoped such a promising sculler will not he
fallow for want of backers.
The late Count de Lagrange’s Turf prizes
wore sold bv auction In Paris. There wore eleven
£ts and the total sum realized was.2l.405f. The
highest price obtained was tor the prize gained in
1878 at Newmarket by Verneuil. It consists of a
large chased silver vase with bas-relief and small
silver figures, representing the ceremonies of the
Investiture of the Order of the Garter, and is of
the weight of 35 kilogrammes. This was knocked
down, after a brisk competition, at 8000f.
The following were the entries for the six
days’ trouble at the Madison-square Gardens, New
York, hilled for April last:—Charles Rowell (best
THoord 586 miles 63 yards), Patrick litzgerald (o83
miles 56 rRobert Vint (578 miles 605 yards),
Geo“geD Noremao (565 miles 495 yards), Frank H.
Hart (565 miles 185yards). Daniel J.Herty (566 miles
375 varus), Napoleon Campana— ‘ Old Sport -(500
miles), Sam Day (460 miles). Charles Thompson, and
George Harris. G. Hazael, who holds the 600
miles record, did not enter.
The final heat for the Bourke Sheffield.
Handicap was run on Friday last, and resulted m a
win for J. Brewer, Brewarina (16 yards); R.
Brooks, Walgett (11 yards), second; T. M. Malone
n vard>. third; and F. Saul (17 y*” - *®' brought up
the rear. The time was Riven as 14)4 seconds, but
as Malone finished within a yard ot tne leader, we
fancy there must have been somethinR wrong
with the clocking or the ground. Malone, from
scratch, carried off the 125 yards Champion race
from Hogan alias Morres (4 yards), in the stated
time of 124 seconds.
Bull’s Life in London of April 12 has a
column and a half on tho respective merits of the
Australian and English cricketers, and judging
from the manner the colonials are spoken of all
through the article, the whole team are looked
upon as professionals. The Englishmen are all
“mistered” in contradistinction to the colonials
who are dubbed plain W. L. Murdoch, F. R. Spof-
forth, and so on to the end of the chapter. That a
team who “whack” the proceeds at the end of a
tour are professionals to all intents and purposes
there cannot be two opinions; but as the Bri-
tishers do the colonies on the same “lay,” they
should remember that people in glass houses, &c.
The Sydney Turf Club had a day “ made
to order” for their postponed meeting on Satur-
day last, and they had nothing to growl about so
far as attendance was concerned. Dundreary
made an easy win of the Hurdle Race from Flam-
borough, IThlan third; Highland Mary defeated.
Battailous by a length for the Royal Stakes, Pri-
vateer third; the May Stakes fell rather an easy
victory to Minorca, Kathleen Mavourneen second,
Rosinante third: Jessie secured the Queen’s Birth-
day Cup by half a length from Phyllis, Rapid
third; Thackambau made an easy win of the Sell-
ing Stakes from Stella; and the Ladies’ Bracelet
fell to Waxworks, Palarenda second, Le Beau
third.
A correspondent of the Sporting Chro-
nicle offers the following explanation of the oft-
used racing expression “real jam”:—The new
steward of the Jockey Club, the Earl of Suffolk,
was, when known as Lord Andover, one of the
three “ Romeo Lords.” The other two were Lord
Courtenay and Lord Edward Howard. This was
about 20 years ago. These three were called the
“ Romeo Lords ” because they were the “ mashers’'
of the period. Their “guide, philosopher, and
friend" was Mr. “Tommy” Hughes, of Epsom,
and they were in most of his “good things.” They
once or twice had a great plunge on a mare called
Real Jam, which came off, and ever afterwards
when a horse had been highly tried, and they in-
tended having a raker on, they would say “ This is
real Jam,” meaning that it was as good a thing as
1(68.1 Jam
The trustees of the Association Cricket
Ground are calling for tenders for a loan of ioOGO,
to be secured on the revenue derivable from the
ground. Surely cricketers and athletes generally
will have a say in this matter. Thousands have
already been spent in ornamental buildings for the
onlookers, and it seems about time that those who
provide the sport should have a little consideration
shown them. That one ground is insufficient for
Sydney cricketers goes without saying, and we
certainly think the large sum of £6000 might be
better employed in the formation of a new ground
than in the creation of a new pavilion on a ground
on which more money has probably been ex-
pended than on any other two grounds in the world.
It really seems strange the manner in
which Hanlan is backing and filling with regard to
Beach’s straightforward challenge, and there is
only one conception to be the action
of a man who is willing to row Ned Trickett, whom
he saw beaten by Beach with the greatest ease ;
Tom Clifford, an infant in expenence-lf not in
stature—in a wager boat; Hearn, the New Zealand
champion, about equal to our third raters, or any
other second or third-class men, but who steadily
refuses to make a genuine match with our cham-
pion sculler, Beach. Hanlan saw Beach row his
race with Trickett, which may account for his
refusal to row the Dapto man; for, should the
Canadian be beaten, there would be an end of the
“ hippodrome ” business and gate money—an end
to be devoutly wished for by all who have the
interests of genuine sculling at heart, so far,
Hanlan has done nothing in Australia to uphold
his title of Champion Sculler of the World; in
fact, it's t’other way about.
Jem Ward, the once renowned pugilistic
champion of England, died in London recently, at
the advanced age of 84 years. Jem earned for
himself a very bad reputation tor selling battles,
aod to his crooked ways may be attributed the
commencement of the downfall of pugilism, and
the estiangement of many wealthy and well-bred
patrons of the ring. As a pugilist, it is certain no
man of his day could meet him with any chance of
success, if he meant “winning.” He fought
Sampson on the hottest day that had been felt in
England for a great many years, when almost any
price could have been obtained, during the tight,
for a drink of water, and while strong men were
almost fainting round the ring. The two comba-
tants were dreadfully oppressed by a clear, blazing
sun, but the effect of condition was such that they
felt it less than many of the bystanders. In weight,
"Ward was about 12st., possessing' a powerful
frai-ie, with extraordinary agility, and every re-
quisite to make such a boxer as Jem Ward really
■was.
Notwithstanding counter attractions on
Saturday last, the Grammar School sports had a
big attendance for their eleventh meeting held on
the Association Cricket Ground. The following
were the winners of the various events:—100
yards’: 8. L. Hayes. 120 yards, under It: C. Gib-
son. House Cup Handicap, half-mile: R. Cruiok-
shank. 80 yards, under 12: W. Harris. Maiden
Handicap, 300 yards: A. Hilliard. Throwing cricket
ball: J. Vicars, 88 yards. Half-mile Handicap: J.
M’Pherson. Lower School 300-yards’ Handicap;
R. Thomas. Private 120-yards’ Hurdle Race:
Hughes. 120-yards’ Hurdle Handicap: J. Nichol-
son. Quarter-mile, under 15: F. Watson. 220-
yards' School Cup Handicap; S. L. Hayes. Cham-
pion Mile: A. Henry. All Schools, 220 yards; A.
B. Cochrane, Newington. 220 yards, under 15: A.
Smith. Strangers’ 300 yards: F. Ives (12 yards).
Four - miles’ Bicycle Handicap : C. R. Wood
(scratch). 150-yards, old Sydneians: E. A. Grainger.
Mile Walking Handicap: W. Dunlop (80 yards).
Suarter-mile Handicap: F. Stokes (10 yards). Sacs
ace: H. Newcomen.
The English Derby of ’84 is a thing of the
■past, and for the second time only, since the great
race was started, has resulted in a dead heat. In
1828, the Duke of Rutland’s Cadland ran a dead
heat with the Hon. C. Petre’s The Colonel, the
former winning the run off; and on the 27th ult..
Major Brace’s St. Gatlen, a colt scarcely mentioned
In the betting, and who doesn’t even know who
his own father is (being always described as by
IRotherhill or The Rover), got his nose past the
post just at the same moment that Archer suc-
ceeded in placing Lord Falmouth’s Harvester’s
snoeet in the same position; the heavily backed
Queen Adelaide, by Old Hermit, finishing third.
.Apropos of this, we may mention that poor old
Sim Templeman, the famous Yorkshire Jockey,
caught the Great Judge’s eye on March 13th, aged
79. During his racing career, Templeman won
three Derbies, on Bloomsbury, Cossack, and Sur-
plice ; three Oaks, on Miami, Cymba, and Mar-
chioness; and one St. Leger, on Newminster. He
was also second to Priam for the Derby, on Little
Red Rover, who was only 14 hands 3 Inches. He
was a wonderful judge of pace, and a cool-headed
and patient rider.
Perfect weather and the match of the New
Zealand footballers v. a New South Wales team
brought together some 3500 people on the Agrioul-
tural Ground on Saturday, to witness the defeat
of the local team by 3 goals and 1 try to nil. New
Zealsnd won the toss, and kicked from the
Northern end. Warbrick kicked first goal for
Maoriland with a splendid left foot kick, and at
half time the score stood New Zealand 4 to N.8.W.
nil. Upon continuation of the game Taiaroa ob-
tained a try, and Milton kicked a goal. Robertson
shortly afterwards obtained another try right on
the boundary, from which Ryan made a good
though futile attempt at geal. During the whole
play the ball was only twice behind New Zealand
goal, due to Bayliss and Graham respectively.
The visitors fairly outpaced New South Wales in
every department of the game, Taiaroa proving
about equal to three of our average players. Al-
though we are not mad enough to believe any
team we can raise would hold a candle to the New
Zealanders, we cannot refrain from remarking
that Sydney had far from her best team in the
field on Saturday last. By the way, Oxley was ssked
to play at the last moment, and declined as a
matter of course, The present system of selection
committee does not seem to work well, and we
think it might well be discarded in favour of one
man picking the team.
John Davis, a racehorse with about as
sensational a career as his namesake, the C.M.G..
died recently in England at the ripe old age of 23
years. By Voltiguer out of Jamaica, he did no
good as a two or three-year-old, but in his fourth
year he came out and won the Lewes Handicap,
with 7st. 71b. Tom Cannon up; and as he proved
a good stayer, he was henceforth always entered
in long-distance races. John won numerous races
where bottom was required, was tried and proved
a failure over sticks, and then came on to the flat
again, but at a reduced status of tame, as he got
back to his juvenile weights. Instead of 8st. 121b.
in the Cesarewitch, which he carried Into third
place four years previously, he was t wen now
6st. 121b. The party about him, howevei k-lowing
that the old gentleman was pretty fr» > ' n his
pirs backed him like men, down to 8 to I the
good thing nearly came off, as the old i«n as
stout as steel, and the light-weight, Cherie (6st. 71b.)
only just beat him. John, however, was doomed
to come lower still, as he was actually knocked
down at Tattersall’s for &5gs. He then fell into
the hands of Mr. Walker, of Water Tower, Rugby,
where he has been forthe last thirteen or fourteen
years, Mr. Walker at one time refusing as much as
2000gs. for him. John Davis turned out the sire of
j John Day, winner of the Metropolitan Stakes in
I 1877 • of Fortissimo, winner of the Goodwood
Stakes In 1882; of Don Juan, winner of the Cesare-
J witch last year; and a lot of minor winners, such
as Gulliver (late Our John), Brilliancy, Lizzie, and
perhaps the best two-year-old likely to be seen on
the English turf this season is by him.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
At Melbourne, on Thursday last, a foot-
ball match between Melbourne and Norwood clubs
was won by the former with a score of 4 goals and
8 behlnds, to Norwood’s 3 goals and 8 behinds
“A private letter from Sale, Glppsland,” says the
Nooze, “says that on Thursday evening Donald
Dennie held a wrestling contest with Dr. M'Donald,
of that place. In the final result the doctor was
succesful in throwing the champion. The success
of the doctor was such that all the Caledonians
assembled in the neighbouring hostelry and drank
his health in bumpers At Murrurundi, the
Gunnedah footballers defeated a local team
by 18 points to nil. What a thrashing 1
At Tangmangaroo a local eleven defeated a Bur-
rowa eleven, with the loss of four wickets only,. .
Mr. M. Bryant has selected James Wilson, jun., to
train his filly Conjecture and one or two others
that he purchased at Sir Thomas Elder’s sale
Claverly fatally Injured himself at the recent meet-
ing of the Queensland T.C., Brisbane Hunter’s
Hill now boasts of a gymnasium.
Political Points
Sir Henry Parkes continues in the Nine-
teenth Century his ridiculous proposals for an
Australian Council in London: members to be
elected by the Legislature of each colony. Rub-
bish.
Prince Leopold was not the first Duke of
Albany who died at Monaco. Edward Augustus,
Duke of York and Albany, brother of George III.,
died there in 1767, before he was thirty years of
age, owing to a chill caught at a ball. He was also
a young man of much promise, and so forth; but
he had accomplished nothing, and his existence
was forgotten till Leopold’s death drew attention
to the coincidence.
Governor Loch said to have expressed him-
self strongly in favour of legislation for the ex-
clusion of Becidivistes from the colonies. If he
wishes to keep clear of trouble, he must place a
watch upon his tongue, and remember that it is
responsible government which obtains In Victoria.
His views may jump with those of Service to-day,
but how about to-morrow or next day when the
Coalition is a thing of the past ? Partisan Gover-
nors have been the curse of Victoria, so the incom-
ing man had best be very careful.
Even the Grand Old Man is unable to
avoid the “ damnable Iteration ” which appears
indispensible to a parliamentary debate. In his
recent speech, defending the Ministerial policy in
Egypt (delivered, we are told, with “ all the fire of
former years,” &c. &c.), he thus referred to the
Opposition tactics. “ There was no precedent for
it, nor was there in all the annals of Parliament
anything in the slightest degree resembling the
conduct that had been pursued by the Opposi-
tion.” Those same old, dreary words have been
periodically thundered forth by every Prime
Minister that ever existed, for centuries past.
When the Duke of Albany married
Helena, the daughter of the Prince of Waldeek and
Pyrmont, the august, but impecunious, father of
the bride manifested a businesslike shrewdness in
the transaction quite unusual in royal persons.
He knew the probability of Leopold being cutane-
ously cut off in his promising prime, so before
delivering Helena over, he insisted on £6000 a
year being settled on her for life. Leopold has
gone where thin cuticle will cause him no trouble,
and the bereaved bride, who is a robust damsel
in every way suitable for an octogenarian, will be
endeared to the British taxpayer at the rate of
£6000 a year for perhaps 40 years to come.
Granny and the Shroud and the Nooze,
with differing degrees of ponderous jocosity, have
ridiculed the idea of Luscombe’s return for North-
umberland. He is (they cry in unison) the
maintainer of a long-exploded theory. And pray
what in thunder are they ? He is no whit more of
a Protectionist than they are. When they have
ceased doing their little best to buttress rotten
institutions and conserve mischievous principles,
they will be able more consistently than they can
now to heave their bricks at him. We don’t
champion him or his ideas, but would simply point
out the ludicrous incongruity of the curriers
of favour with every form and type of “ vested
interest ” inveighing against a man for doing ditto
on perhaps a smaller scale, and in a slightly nar-
rower groove.
Justin M'Carthy moved in the House of
Commons:—“That the present condition of the
Irish magistracy, constituted almost exclusively
from one religious denomination and one class, is
offensive and injurious to the vast majority of the
Irish people.” The four million Catholics in Ire-
land, he said, were represented by 869 Catholic
magistrates, while the one million Protestants had
3359 Protestant magistrates. These facts alone
were a sufficient ground for enquiry. Mr. O’Brien
seconded the motion, and said that not merely
were Independent Catholics fitted for the post
passed over, but the most officious and slavish part
of the Irish Catholics were chosen for appoint-
ments in the magistracy.” Motion rejected, as a
matter of course. Yet people inquire, indignantly,
why these Irish are not content now.
Writes a gentleman who recently took a
portfolio “ My department is rammed, jammed,
and crammed with applications, and pledged to
the chin In the way of promises by my prede-
cessors. I couldn’t possibly run off the list in ever
so long a time.” And yet he will be held respon-
sible for the qualifications and work of the men so
appointed. Nobody wishes to see a wholesale
clearing out of officers on every change of
Ministry; but it is manifestly carrying the anti-
American craze too far when a man who is re-
sponsible for the expenditure of hundreds of
thousands of pounds finds himself “rammed,
jammed, and crammed” with applications from
people who have been promised everything in the
last days of a predecessor, of whom the new man
knows nothing. There ought to be a stop put to
this, for. as things are, it is quite possible for a
Minister to so hamper his successor as to prevent
bis remedying any abuses without resorting to
the odious practice of dismissal. If he wants a
suitable man he has now to take him on at an
additional expense to the State. It would not bb
too much if every incoming Minister had, as a
matter of common right, the power to cancel ever''
appointment made within the previous three
months. Without some such power, change of
administration merely means the continuance of
abuses.
Our own Alexander is coming on very
nicely in the art of saying nothing. He Is getting
oracular. He reminds us of two historical replies.
Somebody pressed Disraeli for information as to
what steps the Government intended to take m
view of some Russian movement in the East. “In
case of contingencies,” said Dizzy, with the
utmost courtesy, “ Her Majesty’s Government will
give the subject careful consideration, and will not


GOMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
(LIMITED), "
Caterers to the A J G
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR BALL SUPPERS HAMPERS pou Pirmno" «
, PERSoISlirlElfNTlSbBNCEGuiKAN^D^ClI&p^^ 1 " 8 N “ ° THKR
Lupchecp and Sm.kl.K Loup«. All th. v^r^S’S.d^Sirlptlon.
P- TOLLEMACHE, General Manager.
QCll.O 33TJLg"g*i.33 T
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY RERJStTORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS *
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons. ’
D3TBEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLLAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24i Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS. LIVER COMPLAINT. WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE..
2b. 9d.
Prepared by a. G. KBBBLEWHITE, Chimibt
43 EJ.ISKINE STREET.
Told hr W. TT. ROTTI*. and all Ohmnlata
UMBRELLAS
| RE-COVERED
Study economy;
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
ro-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J - SULLIVAN'S
n , 6 U fl G t®°r? e Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sta.-
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Knnalra nnat.lv nvn-
IHItM
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Pruit Markets.
Shade,
Cashmere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose. ° 8 J10SIEKy ' m al1 the winter shades, consisting of
MnISJ E .t L Z- R .i™ N !^ PENIN ° MtLLINEUT SHOW ROOMS
mttH p hoice Stock to select from
larfire stock to select from.
mtHtSvr ne *u stock; t0 8elect from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
—For the winter.
» reat variety,
qualities.
STRAWb—In all new shapes.
apdf^do^rkeSTe^n,^^
ab «ve line. A large stock of of 8nn*hVd«2 8t Goods in the
and Seal Bags, Workbaakets, Boots, Shoes. &c. con8lstlnfr of 8u n« ba des, Fans, Purses, Mdfpeco, Russia,
Not. Address—J. O. HABBOEOW, 470 Georgb Stb.rt, opposite Contra Pru „ M.rt.tA
tail METALLIC SUITES OE SUMS!
MAKE
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST ROOFING KNOWN.
It is light, ornamental cheap, and durable. Is used, and verv
ighly approved of, by the English Government Departments andl
by the Hoyal Engineers.
References given to Sydney architects and builders bv whom it h« a
wttk unqualified approval and success. " as been
already used <
AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION OP 1878.
using any other roofing material, call and inspect the above at
287 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
FOB 1884,
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
BICYCLES have thi
LARGEST SALE, and glvi
the Best Satisfaction, a
any machines made.
Our Prices t a h ™ Lowest.
r * Our Terms are th
Easiest, and our sys
tem of business en
sures perfect satisfac
0n every Customer.
Write to us,
0»
Call on us.
JamesDUARTZBI 4 com
389 GEORGE STREET, 8VDNEY (Ooposlte Royal Hotel).
be afraid to meet Parliament.” There was a lot of
information in that. The other case was Sir
Michael Hicks-Beach’s reply to Berry, when that
subtle ambassador asked him, “ In the event of my
Reform Bill being 1 carried, and the Council con-
tinuing to be obstructive, will the Imperial Govern-
ment then give me an Enabling Bill ?” And
Michael said that, “in such an event, Her Majesty’s
Government would consider the question in rela-
tion to circumstances which might then exist.”
And so Mr. Abigail got this reply from our Alick
last Friday. He asked the Colonial Secretary
whether, in the event of the French Government
carrying out the recidiviste scheme of sending
their criminal population to New Caledonia, the
New South Wales Government would consider the
advisableness of framing a law to compel French-
men coming to our shores to show a passport
certifying to their respectability. Mr. Stuart said
he had no doubt if he had the good fortune, or mis-
fortune, as the case might be, to be in the Ministry
at that time, be should submit such measuiesas
the Ministry might deem requisite under the cir-
cumstances.
Somebody has fished out of old Coke the
following recipe for making an M.P.“ Every
member of the House being a counsellor, should
have three properties of the elephant: first, that
he bath no gall; secondly, that he is inflexible, and
cannot bow; thirdly, that he is of a most ripe and
perfect memory; which properties, as there it is
said, ought to be in every member of the great
councell of Parliament.” Now, if ever a Parlia-
ment answered this description, it Is ours; but
resembling as it does a white elephant, it has ad-
ditional virtues. Like an elephant it Is heavy,
slow to move, and in getting a small mouthful of
legislation crushes through ani tramples under
foot fifty worthy things in its course. A Parlia-
ment that holds M'Blhone, and Buchanan, and
O’Comnor, and Taylor, and Garrett is clearly not
open to the charge of possessing gall. A Premier
with a backbone whose rigid outline has frequent-
ly adorned these pages, and has pa»sed into a
proverb and a blessed memoryfor ever, la certainly
*‘ inflexible and cannot bow,” although there are
times when, as in Dan’s case, a heart bowed down
might be visible in Macquarie-street. As for “a
ripe and perfect memory,” there is not a man
among them who does not clearly recollect the
exact proportion of sincerity he had when he
promised everybody everything on the hustings
Ripe ” is no word for it. It is hardly necessary
however, for old Coke to tell us how needlul £,
good memory is for an M.P. There is an old pro-
verb that expresses the indispensability of that
quality to a large section of the human race, of
which Parliament contain the most conspicuous
examples. We sometimes feel the want of it our-
selves.
Judging from the recent official utter-
ances of Lord Randolph Churchill, we take him to
be a precious hot cup of coffee indeed, and one
that is mighty apt to disagree at times with the
grandoleman’s digestive apparatus. Speaking on
the Egyptian trouble in the Princes’ Hall, Plca-
dilly, Lord Randolph touched the Liberals on the
raw by declaring they had “ wallowed in a stifling
morass of the most degraded and servile worship
of the Prime Minister;” they had “sunk below
the level of slaves,” had “ become puppets, the
objects of derision and contempt, and had lost all
claim to the title of rational human beings.”
That being all ho could think of just then, by way
of compliment to the Liberals specially, he pro-
ceeded to chaw up Mr. Gladstone and his particu-
lar colleagues, whom he described as “ men who
have on their souls the blood of the massacre of
Malwand, the blood of the massacre of Lalng’s
Nek, the blood of Sir George Colley, the blood of
Lord Frederick Cavendish and Mr.Burke, and many
others of the true and loyal subjects of the Crown
in Ireland; the blood of Hicks Pasha and his 10,000
soldiers, the olood of the army of General Baker,
the blood of Tewflk Bey and his 500 heroes. For
four years this Ministry has literally waded in
blood; their hands are literally dripping and reek-
ing with blood. From massacre to massacre they
march, and their course is ineffaceably stamped
upon the history of the world by an ever-flowing
steam of blood. How many more of England s
heroes, how many more of England’s best and
bravest are to be sacrificed to the Moloch of Mid-
lothian?” We venture to think that that lot
would make even a dead Premier sit up in his
shroud and howl for mercy. If he didn’t howl, it
would prebably be on account of ill-health.
One of the London dailies recently ob-
served “ Mr. Gladstone lectured the House of
Commons and abused the Opposition last night,
but there is one thing he will not be able to do—
succeed in trailing the red herring of obstruction
across the blood-stained trail of his Egyptian
policy.” The London Sportsman, a Journal whose
only notion of politics is that they are things
which make men red in the face and generate bad
language, upon reading the above filled its head
with the idea that it takes a sporting writer to
sling political screed, and at once set to work to
write up a few pars, just to get its hand into form,
aad suit every style of reader. Here are a few
samples “ The Minister spoke for four hours,
but no legislator shall stop the pigeon of justice
with the choke-bore of contempt. Two ; The
First Lord has long held sway, but thunder booms
around, and he cannot succeed in unsighting the
greyhounds of anger and righteousness when once
they have been slipped to the fugitive hare of his
wicked, sanguinary, and reprehensible policy.
Three : Although the challenge of the Opposition
at ‘ the distance ’ was not successful, his old
‘crook’ of policy will yet be beaten on the post
by the rare stayer Vengeance, by Thunderbolt out
of Greased Lightning. Four : He may smile and
smirk, and rest in his fatal lethargy, thinking him-
self safe on his handicap mark ; but it is long odds
that the Westminster Scorcher will yet give him
his ten yards and beat his legs off. Five : After a
little sparring round, the Home Ruler made a
rush, and getting the Minister’s head into Chan-
cery, put in some spirited fibbing. In the second
round, however, the old ’un tapped him neatly on
tbe conk with his left, and, following up his ad-
vantage, knocked the Cora chicken clean out of
time, and was declared the winner.”
Dr. Kuyper is the President of the Patri-
monium, an Association of Dutch Christian
Socialist “workingmen” in Brussels, and a nice
hot cup of tea he is, too. At the reception re-
cently given to the Transvaal Delegates, Dr, Kuy-
Eer filled the chair, and when the “ Schiedam ” had
een sufficiently punished, the gentle Doc. hung
on to the table-cloth, and said “ Gentlemen,
you are now in the midst of a people which never
cried ‘Victory’ so joyfully as it did when you
triumphed over the English. The first successes
of the English left us indifferent; we really exulted
only when you chased tbe redcoats from the Spitz-
kop. We, the Dutch of Holland, are a very
enervated and insignificant race. We live only on
historical souvenirs. We are like an aristocrat
delighting in the perusal of his family parchments
and seated before empty dishes, with his nerves
unstrung and his head heavy. We may be an-
nexed by Germany, or the Liberals may render
life unendurable to us. In either case we shall
emigrate in a body to the Transvaal. Let the
Holland of other times then flourish again, in
Southern Africa. Let the Englishman be chased
from those countries, and a kingdom of Christ be
established there, called, above all things, to bring
to the descendants of flam the blessings of the
Lord, in the name of the King, Jesus Christ.
Amen.” After that lot they pulled the corks out
of the bottles again, and then General Smit (one
of the real old Smits) having received a flag and
swore he would never let it fall into English hands,
President Kruger observed that it was the Lord
who had fougnt against the English at Spitzkop
and elsewhere. All of which leads us to infer that
England is getting herself quite disliked, and that
President Kruger is in no Immediate danger of
being struck dead for his reverence for veracity ;
Or else that the Lord has changed sides, lately. He
used always to be on Our side, in our younger days.
The attitude of the Ulster Orangemen, both in
tod out of Parliament, is not, just now, of the
most heroic kind imaginable. The constant posi-
tion assumed by their representatives in the
House of Commons in the debates on the Reform
BUI is that of crouching, shivering suppliants,
begging to be protected from tbe Parnellite
majority of their countrymen, while here, at
W home, writes a Dublin correspondent, they
have hitherto posed as a powerful, nay, Invincible
any attempt were mad© to tamper
with their immemorial privileges, would “ want tc
know the reason why,” Nothing, In fact, can be
thore abject than the fear they express of the con-
sequences of extending the franchise to all Irish
householders. They say that even in Ulster they
would be utterly swamped under a household
franchise, although the usual talk in the
past used to be that Ulster was Orantre to
Ku c ,°, re - But more abject still has been the
backing down of the Orange leaders who hold
office under the Crown, and have, by a glaring
manifestation of their partizanship, incurred the
censure of the authorities in Dublin Castle. Every
one of this valiant band—whether he was a Fishery
Inspector, or a Crown Solicitor, or a magistrate—
has, when called upon to choose between standing
his principles and retaining his place, chosen
the latter alternative. The last to take this course
has been the Earl of Erne, Lord-Lieutenant of
termanagh. This old bigot who, during the forty-
four years he has held the position of Lieutenant
ot a county, has never recommended a Catholic
for the commission of the peace, called in April ,a
meeting of the magistrates of his district to pro-
nounce upon a case which is still subjudice, and to
censure th j paid Government magistnte of the
district for having dared to swear on the trial of
that case that a certain number ol Orange J.P.’s
had acted corruptly on the Bench. The very
moment, however, the Government intimated to
him that he might lose his position as Lieutenant,
the great Earl prudently threw his Orange pro-
teges overboard, and saved himself by counter-
manding the gathering he had summoned. The
truth is, the whole gang are a parcel of wind-bags.
They try to maintain themselves, by bluster, in a
position endowed with exceptional privileges; but
as soon as they are roughly touched from any
quarter, they immediately collapse.
The impression is fixed in Ireland, writes a
correspondent from Dublin, April 10, that we shall
have a general ©lection some time this year. The
idea is that, even though the Reform Bill pass in
its entirety through the House of Commons, it
will be rejected by the Lords because of the In-
clusion of Ireland, and that then the Ministry
must dissolve. Preparations are accordingly being
made by the popular party—which alone seems to
have any activity or hope left in it—to supply Mr.
Parnell with the 75 or 80 men for whom he has
called, to aid him in the next Parliament. County
conventions in the places which are at present
represented by Whigs or deserters from the Par-
nellite ranks are the order of the day. Those
conventions are all organised under the auspices
of the Executive of the National League, and con-
sist of lay and clerical delegates from the various
branches of the League in each county; and it is
particularly notable that the Catholic priests are
taking part in every one of them. This fact
shows what effect the adoption by the Vatican of
the Errington policy in Ireland has had on the
fortunes of the popular party. The Propaganda
Circular of last year, against Parnell and
his assoclae, has so exasperated the mass of
the people, that the priests could not, even
if they would, refuse to go with their flocks on the
political questions of the hour. The great diffi-
culty that fronts the conventions is the lacx of
men of means sufficient to enable them to leave
their desks, counters, and farm-yards in Ireland
for half a year at a time. Young, active, and able
men exist in abundance amongst the Parnellite
host, but they are for the most such as have to
work for their living, while the rich men of leisure
are nearly all on the other side. How this diffi-
culty is to be surmounted remains to be seen ; but
the most probable solution of it is the payment by
each constituency of its own representatives, and
on that assumption, the tendency is to go on with
the selection ot candidates under the superin-
tendence of the leader. There will undoubtedly
be an extensive clearing of old members. At least
forty men who at present sit for popular consti-
tuencies will be sent about their business. The
claims, for instance, of Messrs. Mitchell Henry
Shaw, Martin, O’ConnorJPower, Errington, P j’
Smyth, and the rest who have since 1880 “ ratted ”
from the Irish party, will not be even considered •
but even this section are not more sure to return to
the obscurity of private life at the dissolution than
those other Irish members who like Captain O’Shea
the member for Clare, and confidant of Chief
Secretary Forster, would like to hunt with the
hare and run with the hounds-that is, to be in the
confidence of the Irish party and of the Govern-
ment at the same time. But the organization of
the conventions is not the only manifestation of
political activity in Ireland, just now. Almost
every day next week is to be marked by one or
more popular demonstrations, for which prepara-
tions have been making for weeks past. Drogheda
is to be en file tor Mr. Parnell himself; Limerick
for Messrs. Davitt, Dawson, and Dwyer Gray
Kildare for Healy; various towns in the South and
Bast for Messrs. O’Brien, Redmond, and Mayne. It
is said, also, that Mr. O’Connor Power, the member
for Mayo, will visit his constituents in Castlebar;
but Mayo men, in general, seem to regard this
announcement as too good to be true. If, how-
ever, this latest recruit of th© London Drawing-
room squad of politicians does go to Castlebar, his
reception will be different from that of Parnell at
Drogheda, or that of Healy at Kildare. It is quite
impossible for an Irish member, now-a-days, to be
at once popular amongst his constituents and the
petted darling of Ministerial female wire-pullers
in London.
The Irish are perpetually accused by their Eng-
lish rulers, of want of respect for British law and
its administration. It must be confessed that the
accusation is well founded ; but then the wonder
would be if the said laws and thieir administration
or at least the majority of them, did possess the re-
spect of the mass of the Irish people. Look at the
way British justice has worked in Ireland, during
the past few weeks, in that period, four or five
prosecutions for very serious offences have been
initiated against Orangemen. With what result ?
Mathews, proprietor of an Orange newspaper in
Tyrone, with two others, set fire to a Land League
hut in the dead of night, and thus nearly succeeded
in roasting alive an old man and woman. He was
convicted, the evidence being uncontradicted; but
he was recommended to mercy by a Coercion Act
jury, and the judge—a Tory Catholic—sentenced
him to only a year’s imprisonment for a crime
punishable with penal servitude for life. Doherty
an Orangeman, was convicted of having deliber-
ately fired at and wounded a young man in the
streets of Derry on the occasion of the visit
of the Lord Mayor of Dublin to that citv
in November last. He was also recoml
mended to mercy, and let of with eighteen
months’ imprisonment. Two Orangemen and two
Nationalists belonging to Ballymote, in the county
of Sligo, were found guilty of having assaulted
one another. The two Orangemen and one Nation-
alist were discharged without any punishment
and the remaining Nationalist was sentenced to
six months’ imprisonment—although he was no
more guilty than the rest, and although he had no
fire-arms, while his assailants had two unlicensed
revolvers. Philip Maguire, a Cavan Catholic, was,
without any pi evocation whatever, beaten to
death by half-a-dossen Orangemen as he was going
home one night, a few months since. The Catholic
Attorney-General, Naish. removed the trial of the
accused from Cavan—which is a pretty Catholic
county—to Dublin, where he packed a strictly
Orange jury, with the natural result that five
minutes after the Judge’s charge, the Orange-
men in the dock were discharged "without a
stain on their character.” On the other hand, the
Mayo Nationalists, accused of a conspiracy to
murder, had not only a packed jury to try
them in Cork, but had the “Hanging Judge,”
Lawson, to direct that jury what to do •
the consequence being that, though the only
evidence against them was the uncorroborated
testimony of an informer, who was admittedly a
blackguard, they were all convicted, and sen-
tenced to terms of penal servitude, ranging from
live to ten years. All this does not, to say the
least, look like even-handed justice; and the worst
or it is that it is all defended in Parliament by the
Government, as if it were the very perfection of
equity.
* ♦ *
Of the four candidates for their suffrages,
th© Newcastle men probably picked the best.
Luscombe is a windbag, it is true ; but not such a
stupendous windbag as Christie, or such a duffer
as either Hungerford or Wallace.


RNITUBB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTAND8,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
D~ RAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
ALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
URN ITU RE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
F
LAI
MB, O’Oonnell-street.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
M
smoking rooms, &c
BEDR(5oM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
EIGHT-POUND BEDRO.OM SUITES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
gloss, and two chairs. The lot for £8. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-Btreet.
CHEAP FURNITURE—Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 35s; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s ®d: Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 25s; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’C
streets, Sydney.
’Connell and Spring
R
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
ompass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Sid©
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONMdTABLBS, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
/'■'IHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
vy just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O ’ Connell-streot. ,
aTsY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
Never hitherto exhibited in Sydney.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection Invited.
-fVRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
Ij A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
HAIR BE D STEADS, forming CHAIRj
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive
Toilet pairs, namgij
with swing
DRESSING-TABLE,
and WASHSTAND,
JL with swing GLj!
marble top, 80s the pair,
EXTENDING DINING table’, with patent
screw and two leaves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCHl GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guinea*.
D INTNG
TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
(ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
'A
tsr,
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired..
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 80s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu,
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room,
RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements 1
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
pholstery
TON, and
BRADLEY, NEW
ralnut,
MOROCCO
Open to Inspection.
LAMB.
B
BDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
neU-street.
W
A8H8TAND8, with marble, 3Ss each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
g 4 ARDEN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chairs,
tbr INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete*
Assortment: best make, lew ost prices.
SOCIAL
There was a fine gathering at the Sydney
Grammar School Sports on Saturday. There were
large Helds, good races, and sometimes close
finishes, nearly thirty events, a band of music, and
a oabel of talk. It was the eleventh meeting of
the School Athletic Club, and well managed; the
sack race was most fun, and the ‘bike race was a
gift to C. tt Wood, despite the heroic efforts of
the gallant Godwin. It was often impossible to
Identify the competitors by their colours described
In the book, small devices being Indistinguishable
from the stand, and many of the descriptions
being so much alike; but it would be difficult to
remedy this. In the toilet show, there were few
striking dresses, none outri; it was mostly charac-
terised by a nice equality of merit A matronly
lady wore a very handsome yet quiet dress—a
leaden-coloured satin in various shades, brocaded
with darker velvet flowers. Another married
lady’s dress was a fine satin of cresson green, with
brown tartan draping from under the basque, and
a band of same round bottom of skirt, which was
draped to the left. The dress of Miss Salwey was
full of interest, and quite the fashion. It was of
■oft black material, pointed bodice with plastron
of light golden silk and ridged shoulders, the
very full skirt flowing in plain lines from waist
to hem. Bound the bodice and hem were half-a-
dozen narrow gold lines. Two companions were
in somewhat similar style; one dress was a dark
sort of diluted-ink colour, with the pleatlngs
of the skirt held by little knets of cord, and
headed with embroidery-edged draperies, and a
delicate pink plastron to the bodice; the other was
dark red cloth falling in simple folds to the hem,
and circled by lines of narrow velvet to match.
Mrs. Morrison wore a brown homespun, all the
Skirt 1h minute pullings, with brown velvet trim-
ming, black satin dolman. Two of the sweethearts
of the future, under mama’s care, were in parti-
cularly neat and pretty garb; one in brown, the
other in violet, velvet overdress with homespun
skirts to match, and the daintiest little straw hats
trimmed to the dress in each case. _ The Hon. John
Marks was accompanied by his wife in a dress of
splendid black surah satin and brocade; and Miss
Marks wore light cloth tunic and skirt of nutmeg
brown decked with cords, and plush hat and
feather suite, well suiting her blonde style. A
pretty dark green broche, trimmed with plain
satin, was worn by Miss Drunker, and green felt
chnpeau; and Miss Herbert wore a rich dress of
■age green moire in the skirt, and the same colour
draped down the breast of the bodice, which was
of darker green satin. With his two daughters.
Dr. Poucart entered; the young ladies were both
in neat costumes of brown velvet and cashmere.
With a young gentleman, probably their brother,
or someone else s, two fair sisters came in with
pretty, happy faces under their Henri Deux, and
in dark green zephyrs “done” with velvet that
looked very neat and refined. Another young lady
was the personation of taste in a pretty tawny
brown homespun with five flounces of satin waist-
band, gloves, hat, and ribbon trimmings all the
game colour. Judge Windeyer stroUed through in
charge of a neat little lady in brown cloth, with
collar, basque trimmings and drapery of pompa-
dour pattern ; velvet-trimmed hat corresponding.
Beautiful Miss Broughton also wore a brown, of
dark cloth and velvet, and dainty princess bonnet.
Two sisters of the champion “Wanderer ’ bicyclist,
were also votaries of the popular brown ; they
wore a dark shale, braided, and the pleated skirts
caught up by brooches. A light homespun ot
silver grey edged with satin, was worn by Miss
Eastway, the hat and trimmings exactly matching,
completing a pretty toilet. A buzz of Interest rose
at the entry of a tall fair girl in a bright brown
cloth and velvet dress, which had been puffed
here and pulled there, and caught up elsewhere by
some utterly reckless dressmaker in a moat pecu-
liar manner; and yet it was very effective. Mrs.
Brewer, the charming vocalist, wore an elegant
toilet of richest mauve brocade in two shades;
Miss Shortland a pretty tan-brown draped silk, the
bodico edged with gold beads ; Mrs. Widgery a
crimson velvet bodice and drapery, over a skirt or
framboise satin, a toilet which looked very rich.
Mrs. Brady’s winsome beauty almost diverted at-
tention from a costume which was one of the most
admirably tasteful; it, too, was a brown cloth, but
dark almost mahogany hue, with velvet collarette,
chenille trimming, and narrow velvet bands round
the skirt, worn with a light brown straw hat. jx
land agent's fair daughter appeared in a neat black
broche and satin, and an enormous dark green hat
of such phenomenal shape as to almost justify the
fair critic, who, with feminine felicity of expres-
sion, remarked, that “ it looked as if it had
been sat upon three times.” A tall, stately
young lady was the wearer of a delightful dull-
green, zephyr-cloth dress, with plastron of palest
green bilk, and collar and culls of darker green
velvet—a dress so charming that it will no doubt
be to the graceful owner “ a thing of beauty, and
a j 0 y”—till it gets a bit worn A rather pretty
and noticeable costume worn by a tall maiden was
of rifle green, flowing skirt, open in front to show
an underskirt of very small kilted flounces of
rust-red material The bodice front was of same
colour, and the combination a marked one. T wo
Bisters wore dresses that were curiously eyed by
their sex. The dresses were of Indian red, appar-
ently merino, the Garibaldi bodices loose, and the
skirts falling in soft straight folds, perfectly inno-
03nt of any of the “improvements” now so popu-
lar Tucks ran round the bottom; the velvet
waistbands and small straw bonnets were of
matching colour, and the whole appearance of the
toilets novel and not unpleadng. In such a large
assemblage there were constantly figures ot in-
terest pass ng and reparsing, and more combina-
tions and colours than pen can ueseribe, but
brown was the colour, decidedly Several dresses
of the Mary Andeison style were seei; and_ there
was one particular brown velvet the like of
which it hath not ever before entered into the
mind of man to conceive. Even the girls gasped.
» ♦ •
Though Parramatta bears a reputation for
extreme apathy in many respects, the way the
folks there turn out to support anything in the
concert line is astonishing. The entertainment
recently described in these columns netted £75,
and again on Wednesday se’nnight the Masonic
Hall was filled to overflowing. The concert was
given to aid in purchasing a piano for the girls
department of the North Parramatta Publie School,
and the result should speedily enable the fortunate
juveniles to pound away to their hearts’ content.
The children managed their portion of the pro-
gramme excellently, to the credit of Mr. Spier and
Miss Bossiter, head master and mistress of the
school. The dialogue of “ Cinderella” in particular
was given in a style fully equal to similar metro-
politan performances. The little girl who imper-
sonated Cinderella was generally accorded the
palm, and a slight s sraph in blue, who assumed the
part ot an elder sister, would have been the best it
Cinderella hadn’t been there. Miss Shipway mate-
rially assi-ted with two solos sung in her best style,
while local talent was efficiently represented by
various amateurs. Of course there was the inevit-
able recitation, delivered by a gentleman who was
mentioned on the programme as a pupil of Miss
Lvdia Hastings. We wish Miss Lydia Hastings
would advise her pupils to give shorter recitations
man "Shamus O Brien,” which is too much of a
luxury to enjoy all at one sitting. There were
some nice dresses in the audience, the lady
teachers of tne school appearing in great force
upon the occasion. One ot them, from Campbell-
stroet, looked especially nice in a tasteful brown
costume, with tiimmiugs of same colour; and
another sitting near looked well id garnet velvet.
A young lady from thw Western Hoad, who teaches
at Granville, looked charming in navy blue velvet;
as did also the three daughters of a late school
inspector for the district, the two elder in brown
velvet, and the youngest in cream and cardinal.
Miss Shipway wore a rich black satin, trimmed
with Spauisn lace. The musical accompaniments
were first-class; Mr. Spier was indefatigable in his
efforts to promote the comfort of the audience,
and altogether the evening was a very pleasant
one.
♦ * *
The vibrant music trembles on the air.
The sombre figures stalk among the fair,
The lights shine down on many a maid and man.
And anxious ©yes the well-filled pro<ramme scan;
The maids are gay, the men are happy all,
And bright the scene is—'’tis the Rowing Ball.
The sombre figures spoken of just now
Advance with an insinuating bow;
“ The pleasure of a waltz,” is what they plead,
Tnen scribble names that girls can never read,
but here the Sex’s trustfulness is seen—
They always wait with patient, placid mien.
Conscious, no doubt, that their sweet power to
charm
Will bring the partner up, whose willing arm
Will quickly circumscribe the proper part.
And glad “waist” places round the maidens
heart.
Like Siam’s twins, the pair united go
With sliding step and careful-pointed toe,
No clumsy hopping, not a footstep false.
Is tolerated in the modern waltz.
The rhythmic music echoes down the hall,
And here are gathered at the Bowing Ball
The chivalry of Glebe, and muscle, too;
The dauntless heroes of each boating crew,
And fairest ladies, who know all about,
If not “outriggers,” at least “ rigging out,”
Who constant dance—their ardour nothing dulls—
With feather feet, though they can’t “feather
sculls * **
The very girls who for those lucky chaps
Made fancy slippers, ties, and smoking caps.
And who rewarded them for rowing miles
By never-to-be-undervalued smiles.
They’re here to show in all their charms of dress
“The might—the majesty of loveliness!”
The wOrds are Byron’s, and in them he’s right:
But why did he so savagely indite
That ode satiric to the Waltz—the queen
Of all the dances all the world has seen ’?
The reason’s this: he’d put it on the shelf
Simply because he couldn’t waltz himself.
Of his two feet, alas I one was no good—
He couldn’t dance; but no doubt wished he could.
And there are many others like him, too,
Who dispraise anything they cannot do.
But whether lordly poets blame or praise,
Is very little matter now-a-days;
We only want a partner anct a chance.
And Byron or Beelzebub might watch us dance.
Oh I Glebe enchanters, had you any faults,
We could forget them all in one sweet waltz.
Most of the people at the Glebe Rowing Club Ball
knew one another—some had been at each of the
four previous balls—and the committee had not
pushed the tickets among the public, but rather
aimed at gathering as many friends of the Club as
possible. A social reunion was more the object
than money, but it is gratifying, now all is over,
to know that in both respects the Club’s fifth
annual ball was all they desired. Two hundred
visitors found sufficient room in Prof. West's hall,
and admirable spirit and tune in Shapter and
Herman’s band of music. Callaghan catered a
good supper, open all night. Messrs. B. Fair-
weather and F. Bull carried through the harassing
duties of M's.C. excehently ; and Mr. R. Shute as
hon. sec. was everywhere and always polite. Now
we propose to “ catalogue the company ” a little,
because a description of a ball that doesn’t say
who were there, and so on, seems to us about as
sensible as the play of “Hamlet” with the noble
Dane left out. It was a pleasant company, and
as none of the dresses were supremely grand
the ladies were content to be pretty and
piquant, neat and merry, in a rational way ;
and few men want more than that. This
is assuming that the ladies dress to gain men’s
approbation. f*erhaps, after all, they don’t; but
they get the approbation either way. The ladies
of the Glebe itself supported the ball well, and
some decked themselves with the Club colours in
rosettes and streamers. The most palpable com-
pliment paid was by pretty Miss Lou Haslingden,
who clad herself entirely in the emblematic tri-
colour. Her skirt was red and white, and over-
dress blue, and a sailor cap cemprising the three
perched piquantly on one of the prettiest little
heads that ever peeped at a boat-race. Her sister,
Mrs. Sullivan, attached streamers to a beautiful
cream satin dress, with ruff collar, and ample
skirts considerably puffed, which was effectively
handsome. Miss K. Bull wore a graceful pale blue
broche and lace; and Miss J. Bull a bright car-
dinal draped with broad white lace, and flowers on
the breast. To Miss Josephine the company were
indebted for not only a delightful extra waltz, but.
for the G.R.C. Polka on the programme, com-
Sosed by herself specially in honour of the Club,
[rs. Reuss’s toilet was a most handsome one, the
bodice of white satin decked with flowers, and a
balioony puffing of crimson silk heading the white
satin panels over red in the skirt. Music was the
fancy character of Miss Minnie Korff—a good idea
faithfully carried out; and her two sisters
were also present in evening dress. Tall and fair-
haired Miss Carey was pretty in light blue attire;
and Miss Timmins, with short hair, was admired in
a claret satin and lace trimming. Miss Johnsqn
was petite and sparkling in black satin, aud Miss
Geddes, a sweet little blonde in sky blue silk, white
lace and beads. Miss Horn wore a pretty French
white nun’s veiling. The Misses Long were in
black velvet, and that sombre shade and the
mediaeval collar, in which one little Grecian head
was nestled, gave them an air of quaint demure-
ness, which was not borne out iu their pretty,
sparkling faces. All these ladies, and others, were
flowers from tne garden of the Glebe; but lots of
other suburbs contributed to the bouquet of
beauty. Balmain sent Miss Shepherd, in white
satin and golden belt; Woolloomooloo sent two
charming dancers in tne Misses Butler; Darling-
hurst was represented by Miss Bladen, in a pretty
pink of flowers; Rand wick by a floating little
brunette, iu cream broctnS and gauze; Paddington
by Miss Crocker, in cieam satin and light muslin
sk rts; Maitland by Miss Brunker, in pink ;
Kedfern by a favourite, Miss Chapman, in delicate
blue and white; The River by Miss Hayes, a
superlative waltzer, in claret velvet bodice and
white satin skirt; and Surry Hills by another
excellent dancer, Miss Hattie Jones, whose cream
broche, most beautifully trimmed with grassblades
and snowdrops attracted a deal of deserved ad-
miration Miss Mllson, from Wollombi, wore
simple white attire decked with pansies. We don t
know for certain they were pansies, because there
are some faces that prevent one recollecting any-
thing else. But we know how to spell belle, if we
dared. Mrs. Heden wore a dress of maroon otto-
man cord, uniquely draped with net, dotted with
chenille or something. Grace Darling was a dainty
sailor girl with a large straw hat that nearly sawed
our ear off. But we didn’t mind; while it was
sawing us it couldn’t be near any other fellow’s
ear. There were no better dancers in the room
than the Misses Brown, from Newcastle, both in
dainty pink satin bodices, one puffed, the other
flounced, and the wavy hair of one of the fair
sisters was said, even by ladies, to be a picture of
prettiness. That’s about all we recollect; all the
other young ladles have got mixed up in our per-
turbed memory and we can’t specify them with
any degree of safety. Alter 3 o’clock, one has a
tendency to generalise beauty; and that was about
the time that a deputation, having discovered the
programme was going too quickly, waited on Mr.
Robert Fairweather for some “ extras, and that
distinguished athlete, with the amiability for which
he is so widely celebrated, consented to insert some
more waltzes, so as to bring 4 o’clock. Then we
left the Professor turning the gas off, and hummed
the G.R.C. polka all the way home.
♦ * *
A rather unique entertainment was given
last week by Mr. H. skinner, and Mrs. Marks of
Victoria Place, Darllnghurst. to about seventy
guests. First came a concert, in which a number
of amateur minstrels took part, and a farce,
“JohnBotts, from Queensland.” Part two, after
a musical interlude, was a comic act entitled
“ Waxination Gratis,” which produced great fun.
Miss 0. Cantor was accompanist all through, and
material assistance was given by Mr. F. Clarke
(of Clarke and Ryman lame). Then dancing
followed, interspersed with refreshments, till
nearly 3 in the morning. Among the guests, a
handsome married lady was noticeable in black
velvet, and black lace over blue silk; also a pretty
little Hebrew brunette In blue and white laoe
The two fair daughters of a musical lady of Rlley-
street looked well, the clever planiste In black, i
and her younger sister in white satin and pearls.
♦ * *
The Sydney Private Assembly were for-
tunate la having a lovely night tor their opening
ball of the season, which took place In Needs
Rooms last Friday, and, as usual with this Assem-
bly, there was a bright gathering of style ana
beauty among the lames, and a good sprinkling ot
naval officers in uniform. Around the doors a
crowd of gaping gamins, of course, assembled as
tne carriages drove up, to get a glimpse of the
dainty dames who tripped all white and soft and
sheeny across the pathway into the lighted corri-
dor ; but their satisfaction was of the most sha-
dowy kind. A rustle of satin, gleam of a jewel, and
the vision was gone. There’s a great gap between
the daughters of the people and the daughters
of ton. The Sydney Private Assembly is exclusive;
and if there is any creme to society, why, as Bun-
thorne says, “ this is the shop for it.” Many of the
supporters who frequented the balls of old are
seen no more this year. It’s a changeful world;
marriage and mortality are always altering the
face of things, and Cupid takes some, and we re
afraid Charon takes others, off the scene :
some marry, go to settle down, and com-
mence life anew, and some give life best and
go to settle up; and the young, new faces, come
in crowds to nil the gaps in the ranks—only to
follow, later on, in the steps of those that have
gone before. Many visitors were new to the
Assembly, and very charming were some of the
debutantes, in their tulle, and net, and cage-like
shirts, and ample waterfalls, swirling round the
floor like floating drifts of snow. The tasty
arrangement of the fernery and ball-rooms was in
keeping with the ladles’ brilliant costumes, which
were generally very distended, and dresses were
displayed of a fashion that would have done no
discredit to colonial style even in the most polished
assemblages of the older world. Music was pro-
vided by a fine string band, and the name of Bau-
mann, the caterer, is guarantee that everything
for man’s inner well-being was just as it should
have been. The assemblies are never kept up late,
and it terminated about one o’clock.
«> # •
To night (Thursday) the North Shore Row-
ing Club’s third annual ball will be held at Niths-
daie Rooms, where every convenience is provided,
and Mr. H. H. Robey, the hon. sec., hopes to afford
a pleasant evening to all. The Governor and naval
officers have given their patronage, and Hanlan
has been invited.
♦ • ♦
Monday evening saw another agreeable
Bachelors’ Assembly at the Glebe Town Hall.
About fifty present, floor in good order, and a
baud of three. At 10 o’clock there was an interval
for coffee and cake, and at times several songs
were given. Mrs. woods was in splendid voice
■with “ Waiting.” A lady from Harris-street gave
a finished song, and another was contributed by a
lady from the oldest suburb. Among the pretty
dancers, one from Potts’ Point, in black, and a
Macquarie-street resident in two browns, were
pre-eminent. A light-footed little blonde from
Botany-street, in pompadour, was also clever, and
a maiden in grey polonaise and brown velvet
fown. A fiancee in black,with a rose,was charming,
he owner of a cocoa-coloured dress plentifuUy
flounced was demureness itself: and the beUe for
charms was a peach-cheeked beauty from Woo 1-
lahra in brown velvet and brooches thereon. The
appearance of the ubiquitous fireman on the
scene during the evening suggested the idea that
they wanted to play their hose. But the fair
partners can generally play hose enough.
Next Monday, the banquet given by the
Mayor and Mayoress will taae place in the Town
Hall, at 7 p.m., and a very large number ot leading
ladies and gentlemen have accepted invitations.
(Jompagnoni spreads the tables, music will be pro
vlded, and the affair is expected to be a grand one
in all respects. It will be a fine opportunity to
inspect the newly completed Council Chambers.
* • •
The annual ball in aid of the funds of the
Orange Hospital was held on the 28th Instant, and
was fairly attended. There were the usual
requisites for making such a gathering a success,
namely, good music, good partners, good floor,
and last, but by no means least, good refreshments
(which were kindly given by the ladies of the
town). The usual programme of twenty-four
dances was gone through, and before the fair ones
had reached the end of their engagements their
steps were hardly fairy like. What tended in a
great measure towards harmony was the assem-
bling together in friendly dance of the members
of both local winter parties—the aristocratic
banker’s clerk at 40s. a week, and the shopman at
£4 per week. Of the ladles, all looked nice, but the
married ladies certainly outshone the spinsters in
grandeur and style, particularly Mrs. M’Laohlan,
whose maroon velvet and white satin excited the
admiration of all connoisseurs in the dressmaker s
art. The Mayoress’s stately figure set off a mixture
of pink, cream, and lace, and the costume of Mrs.
Coulson in white, Mrs. R. Keenan in a red silk,
and Mrs. Commins in a pale blue, were greatly ad-
mired ; as was the lady of Clifton Grove in old
gold. ‘‘Four o’clock Tea” was represented by a
lady in a costume certainly not in vogue in
Orange. A tall and graceful lady in a silver bodice
and white muslin skirt was belle in the eyes of
some; while others were as emphatic in their
opinions (and deservedly, so) that Miss Dalton was
entitled to the honour. Black was worn by some,
among whom were Miss Bennett from Molong, ana
Miss Burke in grenadine. A Sydney lady fromthe
“ Bridge” in Coburg, a brunette in Sydney Uni-
versity colours, and another in cream satin skirt
and black bodice, were somewhat Idolised, mfc
became three fair ones well. A Scotch lad and
lassie who looked brawly, two regimentals, and
Inspector Ford completed the fancy element.
Bunting was used to decorate, evergreens being
unprocurable. Messrs. Sullivan and Nelson were
efficient secretaries ; and at 4 o’clock the music
died out in the frosty air, and wraps and carnages
were brought around.
• • •
Botany was the resort for a pleasant out-
ing on the 22nd May, given by Mr. Hogben (of
Barrett and Co., cordial-makers, &c.) prior to his
leaving for Europe. A well-contested cricket
match, quoits, and foot-races were the order of the
dav : the catering, to which “ample justice was
done,” was attended to by Mr. F. Smith. We
might say these are the only occasions when ample
justice vt done in N.S.W., but some people might
think we were joking. Usual toasts were given
and responded to. Alderman Moore, of Newcastle,
spoke a few chosen words, and then the employes
made a presentation to Mr. Hogben, and proceed-
ings closed at sundown.
B * • *
Last month, a pleasing ceremony took
place in the usually quiet little township of Scone:
the marriage of Miss Hardcastle, eldest daughter
of Mr. John Hardcastle, an old and respected resi-
dent. with Mr. J. Frederick, surveyor, also known
and popular in the North. Mr. Thomas, incum-
bent, officiated, before a large circle of friends,
and Mr. W. Bramble kindly gave his services at
the organ and played the “ Wedding March.” The
bride looked exceedingly well in a dress composed
of ivory satin and cashmere, the long-pointed
bodice being entirely of the richer material, with
fine cascade of lace in front; the skirt with a regal
train was of bias folds of satin artistically ar-
ranged with a number of narrow flounces of
brussels lace; wreath and blossoms and long veil.
Four bridesmaids, aged from four to nine years,
sisters of the bride, looked pretty in white cash-
mere, trimmed with azure blue satin; gloves and
stockings to corresoond. Among the guests were
the wife of a well known business man, in a drees
of rich greoat cashmere, trimmed with velvet and
lace of the same tint, dcru bonnet of areophane
and beaded lace, long gloves to match. The de-
i jeuner went off merrily, the tables being bounti-
I iully spread, and beautifully decorated. The
1 usual toasts were given, that of the happy pair by
Mr. G. M. Bowman, of Grampian Hilla; and Mr.
and Mrs. Frederick loft for Sydney by the mail
| train.
(For continuation of Social, «oe next page.)


The depth of meanness can no further so.
borne fiend in human form has had the unblushing
audamty to travel round our principal towns out
west, In proper regal style, and not only use the
“ut the business cards also, of “R. A.
Evening News, and Town and
Country Journal. The latest scenes of his
triumphs were the agricultural shows, recently
held in Bathurst and Dubbo, and in each of these
places he was worshipped the same as if he were a
little god, an English “Book,” or even a Yankee
oarsman. When not actively engaged, presiding
at banquet board’, christening bridges, or whisper-
ing soft nothings in aristocratic maiden’s ears, this
pseudo Richard used to put in his time worrying
U P, f° r the Holy Roman Catholic Distress,
and it was noticed, that whenever he struck a
family of the O'Flahertys. O’Tooles, or O’Rourkes,
he spoke with a “ brogue,” as rich, and as thick as
the bog ot Allan. The way the fraud was dis-
covered was somewhat strange. First of all, the
landlady of one of the tip-top hotels, at which he
stayed, noticed that whenever there was steak and
onions for breakfast, Richard II. used to eat all the
steak and shovel the onions over his plate on to
the clean tablecloth. “Now,” as the cautious
hostess observed to her spouse, “ the Mr. Withers
who was here before never done a trick like that.
He used to always back his cart up for a second,
and sometimes even a third load. In fact, it
seemed as if we could never get enough onions for
that Mr. Withers.” The astonished landlord’s sus-
picions wore at once aroused, but when the cham-
bermaid reported next day that the noozepap
half-a-crown, and hugged h
man had given her UC ui-a-ui-uwii, wu uuggeu uer
on the stairs, as he roared, “Och I but id’s th’
dharlin’ little dlvil av’ a duck y’ are Soosin,” the
worst fears were confirmed, for certainly the Mr.
Withers who was there before, never carried on in
that style, So the bead office was “ wired,” and the
fraud exposed.
The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es
peclally true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B.,
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. B., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in a
way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “Hop” or
“ Hops ” in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are Imitations or
counterfeits. Beware of them. Touch none of
them. Use nothing but genuine American Hop
Bitters, with a bunch or cluster of green Hops on
the white label, and Dr. Soule's name blown in the
glass. Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chem-
ists are warned against dealing in imitations or
counterfeits.
John T. McInnbs and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
&c. No commission charged for buying. Agents
for the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-
bred Stock.*
THAT IT
Thoroughly satisfied
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Hay market, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—
1.cheerfully add my testimony to the Rood
effects deriveable from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated In my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife suffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in the legs, in which
case the result was equally beneficial. It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
co P my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CUR
;tin.
(This testimonial Is from a highly respected em-
ploye in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£100.—A Cash Reward of £100 will be paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representatives in various
parts of the world, to any portion producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Half-a-Crown a bottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
We know Hop Bitters are above and
beyond all as a nutritious tonic and curative.
Head thoroughly the
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
nag and floral decorations. 604 Hunter-street.
Sydney.*
Prudently break up your cold by the
timely use of Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant, an old
remedy for Sore Lungs and Throats, and a certain
curative for Coughs. To be had of all Druggists
and Store-keepers; and wholesale by Elliott
Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral wonderfully
increases the power and flexibility of the voice,
enabling public speakers to speak clearly and
without fatigue. If people who are troubled with
colds would take Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral before
going to church o r places of entertainment they
would avoid coughing, greatly to the comfort of
both hearers and speakers.
HORDERNS
ON THE
Sric3s±ielcL IZill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
Ladles residing
Qurtalns. I]
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railwav Station ~ , , T
you hke the pattern which is represented in this it our andlfin S, a f ct of + f jac ®
the same pattern, See future advertisemente ttJr other W U forward ex&ctly
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the entfravimr of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
ps'HiAA'iA’A
Price: 12s. 6d., 15s., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
| lace curtains | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL> ( lace curtains j
ia r " Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Continuation of Social from page 16.
The L.O.B. Society at Wagga generally
celebrated their anniversary by sports, but after
four successive wet meetings, the committee th;s
year decided to hold a ball Instead. So they did,
on the 36th May, In the Freemasons’ Hall, and it
was attended by over 100 visitors. The brethren
entered in regalia to a musical march, and the first
set was opened by Mr. and Mrs. M’Nickle and the
Mayor and his wife. Among the many charming
dresses worn by ladies was noticed a very pretty
black satin, trimmed with artificial flowers, worn
by the wife of one of the “ muff ” cricketers. A
quartette of sisters from Oura, one in black, two
in white, and the fourth in a becoming white tar-
latan skirt and green redlngote body, were particu-
larly charming. A tall Adelong lady wore a similar
dress. Mundarlo sent the belle, in cream satin.
Mrs. Roulston served supper at midnight to the
gay dancers of the L.O.B.8., but we can’t say if it
included the appropriate Zofts-couse, or even the
Indigestible Zobs-ter. Broadhurst and Lilly’s music,
and the company footed it till nearly 6 a,m.
• »
A week or two back, there was the grandest
ball yet hold in Gymple (Q.) It was at the Exhi-
bition, in connection with the Gymple Agricul-
tural, Mining, and Pastoral Society, and nearly 300
people were present. Snell’s Oddfellows’ Band
played for the dancers, most of whom exercised
their fancy as to dress, from the natty little
Ambulance Nurse to the “ Dirty Blackfellow.”
This interesting character showed a good deal of
taste—most of it deuced bad. There was the com-
prehensive character of “ Australia,” and a classic
“ Euterpe ” the very ideal of a Greek goddess, but
who would, no doubt, in a dim corner, he just like
any other girl. Then there was a “Christmas
Cards,” and a “Wasp” with a little waist, and a
girl who wont as “ Union Jack,” because, she said,
girls are glad of any union now-a-days. “ Night
and Morning ” was regarded as the most original
character at the ball. Here, the character is his-
torical, and as familiar to everyone as the story of
Buchanan’s brother’s billet.
• * »
There was a good concert in the Freemasons’
Hall at Wagga last week, to benefit the local
athletic clubs. Every item but one was doubled,
which is owing to the fact that Wagga people
don’t have to catch trams to get home. “ Taming
a Tiger ” was performed by members of the Cross
Club, and two songs, “Pretty Lips,” and “The
Mashers,” specially pleased the audience. Ac-
cording to the local paper, the only item on the
programme that was not encored was a piano
piece, and its performer is the only one of whom
the editor says “ we hope to hoar this young lady
again.” It seems to us that this is uncommonly
rough on the bursting geniuses who were encored !
• • •
The first of a series of winter dances has
just been given by the gentlemen of Tamworth,
at the Mechanics’ Institute. Dancing from 8 till
2 o’clock ; good music provided by the lady
Visitors, assisted by one of the gentlemen, and the
committee were assiduous. About 50 guests were
present, comfortably filling the room. Belle of
the evening was a young lady in a rather striking
dress of black laee relieved by a dash of blue. A
lady from a short distance out of town, who
danced gracefully, looked charming in cream
nun’s veiling. A young lady in a pretty costume |
Of cream skirt and pale pink polonaise, and another
In white cashmere and satin with her hair worn
high, were also excellent dancers.
• • •
It was not widely known that the Queen's
College Sports were to take place on the 28th May, 1
and we believe it was their first meeting, so the
attendance was moderate. It was chiefly can- i
posed of ladies and little boys. The young com-
petitors had ransacked the range of colours to
make themselves gay; and the most noticeable
thing about their performances was that directly
they were passed in a race, they at once stopped
running, and the course was often dotted all
round with vaudy but disheartened small boys,
from whom all hope had fled. It is only fair to say
that in some Instances the handicapping did not
suit them, and the big boys generally “ had a soft
thing.” The German Band diffused music.
* * *
In a metropolis, three wayward young
ladies bethought they would dress in man’s clothes,
and wend through the moonlight to the house of a
young married lady friend, for fun. A brother’s
wardrobe supplied the needfuls, and fully equipped
they sallied out. They didn’t know that the
brother, hearing someone in his room, had dis-
covered their intended fun. Arriving at the young
wife’s house they were shown into the parlour,
and immediately after the gas was turned up, and
who should enter but the husband and brother,
who calmly closed the door, remarking that Mrs.
Blank was not at home. Burning red, the poor
girls tried in vain to escape. One got behind a
couch, another coiled in the arm chair, and sought
the incomplete shelter of two antimacassers, while
every now and then one of the horrid men would
pull out one of the girls to see “what a capital
boy” she made. Eventually, the maidens were
escorted back to home ; but they have never
handled their brother’s garments since. The fun
wasn’t as good as they expected.
* * * *
Among recent balls at Melbourne were the
Annual Foresters’ Ball, one of theDeutscher Turn
Yerein, and a ball given to Mr. L. L. Smith, by the
committee of the Wine and Grain Exhibition—
Raymond Terrace youth are starting a gym-
nasium It was understood the ladles who car-
ried on the Forest Lodge Fayre would be given nn
evening’s dance, as a recognition of their month’s
Services. But the project hangs ...Mr. and Mrs.
Fisher, Mayor and Mayoress of Wellington, N.Z.,
were shown over the Town Hall by Mayor
Hardie last week... At Stockton (near New-
castle) a ball was recently held for the benefit
of the local band, who are now able to
play several tunes. Stockton ladies provided
eatables, and the dancing was kept up till morn....
On the 26th May, in the rising suburb of Camper-
down, the local cricket club hold the first of their
winter evenings’ socials (complimentary) at Croft’s
Rooms. About 30 couples danced to an excellent
band, and the sexes were equally divided. The
dresses of the fair ones were seasonable, and black
with cream, as .well as black with cardinal flowers
and pearls, looked well. A long program me being
exhausted early, extras were added, and a few
vocal members also came to the front. Of course,
Jack came home from sea, the Clouds rolled by,
and the Happy Moments passed, till the music
finally died away about 4 a.m., after a good night’s
amusement In our account of Balmain Assem-
bly last week, we called the fair cateress Mrs.
Holden. But as her supper and her civil celerity
were both much admired, we may as well spell her
name prooerly. It is Oldham On the 17th June,
tho pupils of Signora Fabris are to give a private
concert in the new Masonic Hal*, and the affair is
exciting a good deal of interest among their
friends ...On the 2nd July, the members of the
Sydney Lyceum intend holding a plain and fancy
dress dance in West’s rooms ...It was Mr. L. De
Groen who provided the music at Mr. G. Jamieson’s
Ash field ball lately, not Austin.... Tumut Odd-
fellows had a ball on 23rd May Bathurst
Buffaloes banqueted themselves last week....
Annual Masonic Ball at Dubbo on 27th May....
A grand fancy fayre in aid of the Orange School
of Arts is on the tapis. It is proposed to run it a
week, and wind up with a masquerade ball—Last
Monday, Italians commemorated the anniversary
of Garibaldi’s death, in the Club rooms, in a solemn
manner Hon. James Norton, P.M.G., gave a
banquet to a number of his political friends, at
Parliament House, on the 2nd instant....Mr. and
M rs. C. Hannell gave a large ball at Newcastle, to
mark their 25th wedding anniversary. I
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
North Shore R.C. Annual Ball (Nithsdale).. June 5.
Sydney Lledertafel Smoke Concerts June 5, 6.
Mayor’s Banquet (Town Hall) June 9.
Madame Charbonnet-Kellermann’s Annual
Audit; two recitals (Protestant Hail)...June 7,10.
Bywong Club’s Celebration (Botany) June 11.
Sydney Owl Club Annual Ball (Town Hail). .June 13.
Masonic Bail (Parramatta) June 13.
Petersham Social June 13.
Signora Pabris’ Concert June 17.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)...June 20.
Scandinavian Ball (Tattersall’s Hall) June 20.
Cyclists’ Union Sports June 21.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nithsdale) June 27.
Burwood Private Assembly June 27.
Mercantile R.C. Annual Ball (Exhibition).... July 3,
American Celebration July 4.
Balmain R. C. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms).! July 11.
Sydney, Wednesday-
Dearest Belle,— What a glorious day we had oa
Saturday for the Grammar School sports I And*,
oh I the dressesi It positively made my heart acl»a
with envy upon beholding them. And it was so
provoking, for I had fondly flattered myself that
my new costume of white flannel and garnet
plush would be as nice as any there; but it was
just my luck, for, when It came home on Friday,
it was such a misfit that it was impossible for me
to wear it. And that’s a lesson to me not to em-
ploy an unknown dressmaker again—though how a.
woman who spends her whole life in dressmaking
can avoid being perfect in her art is a mystery to
me. Well, now that 1 have had my grumble, I feel
ever so much better, and don’t mind telling you
what I saw at the sports. To begin with, then,
there were such numbers of shot silk sun-shades'
that it fairly dazzled the eyes to look at them,
They (sun-shado<=) are frequently made now to
match the costume; for instance, on Saturday
there was an electric blue dress of a mixed,
material of silk and wool with parasol of same. A
myrtle green cloth dress had a velvet waistcoat;
with jacket with loose fronts trimmed with broad,
erold braid d la mUitaire, small velvet jockey hat
with scarlet wing. A plain gathered skirt of old
sold and blaek striped ottoman cloth looked
stylish with a short tight black cloth jacket
handsomely braided with black tubular braid;,
black straw hat with gold wing. Another dark,,
but extremely stylish dress, was a plain blaek robe
with one side panel of crimson and black striped
satin, crimson kerchief, and black felt hat with rich,
crimson plumes. A particularly tasteful costume 1
was of grey velvet, perfectly plain, with just the
front width of some soft gathered material in.
, blush pink—Princess of Wales bonnet with one
pink blush rose. Now, wasn’t that charming ? The
dark serges and costume cloths, with gold or silver
braid trimming, are getting to be just the least bit
overdone. I don’t know how many we saw on
Saturday, but I certainly liked very much a ruby
costume cloth with ever so many rows of the gold
braid on the skirt and round the jacket. A Ions-
brown plush jacket was worn over a gold satin
skirt, and was much admired. I quite like the-
plain gathered skirts now, when they are weighed
down with either numerous tucks or bands of vel-
vet, but a great deal depends upon the shape of
the crinoline, which is indispensable with these
skirts. Some have just one row of steel which isi
truly horrible, and altogether too visible on a
windy day ; whereas, with three or four rowsi,
union, you know, dear, being strength, the wind is
set at defl <nce, and the graceful fall of the skirt is
hardly disturbed. Have you seen any of these
new corded velvets yet ? They are very rich, but,
as yet, I have only seen them in dark or plain
shades. A mouse-coloured one, made with long
pleated skirt and double breasted jacket, was one
of the most uncommon on the grounds on Satur-
day. A soft large trimmed felt nat of same colour,
brightened by numerous crimson pompons set
round the crown, completed the costume But,
there, I might fill my letter with the sports' dresses
and then not describe half of them, so I will leave
the rest to your imagination.
By this post I send you the “ Leura Waltz,” by
C. Huenerbein. Now, at first you may not care
for it, for—excuse me, dear—you are such a poor
reader that, until you have given it some practice,
you will fail to do the pretty waltz justice, out I
can tell you it is worth some work, for I have
heard it played by the composer, and it is alto-
gether charming. I arn sure you will agree with
me when you know it. They played it at the
Opera House on Saturday night, on the occasion
of Mr. Wilson's benefit, and in such a way that no
one could doubt but that it will become popular,
and it is not sufficiently trivial to be rendered by
any ordinary strummer.
I was in Peapes and Shaw’s showrooms yester-
day, and was just in time to see a lovely bridal
dress, which had been turned out by the firm for
Captain Broomfield’s daughter, who is to be mar-
ried on the 10th of this month, l believe. The
material is a rich Ivory and merveilleux
satin. The elegant court train Is ornamented
with delicious bouquets of orange blossom, and
sprays of the same are gracefully arranged at
the side of the skirt. Beautiful broad white
duchess lace, at three guineas a yard, flounces the
whole front of the skirt and trims the short bodice.
The high Elizabethan collar is edged with pearls,
and altogether the robe is one of the most beauti-
full have seen. Really, dear, Ishouldn’t half mind
getting married, if I could have such a dress.
I am quite sorry I have never been to Miss Lydia
Hastings’ elocution classes yet; but I do really
intend to go, and I will keep my promise and tell
you all about them. I am glad to hear that the
clever lady has had a nice acknowledgment of her
undoubted talents from the ladies of the Technical
College, in the shape of a beautiful folding station-
ery cabinet, with silver shield bearing the follow-
ing inscription: “To Miss Lydia Hastings, from
her pupils of the Technical College, May 1881.”
Nice of the ladies, wasn’t it? And it must be
highly gratifying to the recipient to know that her
exertions are not unappreciated.
I hear that there is in contemplation a concert in
aid of the Children’s Hospital. Poor little mites!
We don’t do half enough to make their sufferings
easier to them. Although the nurses are kindness
itself, still, how the little hearts must yearn some-
times for a “home” face and a familiar voice.
We ore selfish, dear, there is no doubt of that, or
why don’t we think more of these little sufferers ?
When first the Hospital was opened, I don’t know
what we were not going to do in the way of col-
lecting toys and books for the children; but we
were so soon disheartened by the faint response
we got from those around us, who were wealthier
and more able to contribute towards the fund
than most of us, that by degrees our ardour cooled,
and I am afraid to say now long it is since we gave
a thought to the institution. But now I am think-
ing we might make a fresh attempt, and you, dear,
might help us. Couldn’t you do with a few yards
less of lace on your new ball dress, and spend the
money on a few children’s books and toys ? And
you might also get some of your friends to do the
same; what say you 7 You can send them to me
•
and I will see that they are handed over to the
Hospital.
We have only a few more nights of Impulse,”
and I’m sorry, for it is hardly possible to have too
much of such a good thing, I wonder whose idea
it was to have the orchestra play “ Strangers Yet ”
ml through the piece? It is so appropriate, and
the way they whisper it every now and then is
enchanting. I often wonder how they can play so
very pianissimo. On Monday night the Metro-
politan Liedertafel gave a “smoke concert,” on
which occasion Herr Hugo Alpen was presented
wjth a handsome baton. Of course, he made one
of his funny speeches, which was duly appreciated.
Never was a man so much in earnest as mein Herr,
and so he well deserves all the success he gains.
It is rather foolish I fancy to crowd so many
epnoerts into one week, for the Sydney Liedertafel
give their two smoke nights on Thursday and
Friday ; but perhaps it was unavoidable. We are
not going to the North Shore Rowing Hub Ball
after all, but I believe there is to be a big crowd
there so we shan’t be missed. Good-bye dear.
Yours,
MAB.


Giticura
Disfiguring humors, Humiliating erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
uheum. Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with joss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
Internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches. Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Entemia, Pyasmia,Leucorrhoea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood*
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pur®
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co.. Sydney, Consignees.
m \ U liVy U IvH LHalOV/AJ T A, V. M —* -
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Curb (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh 1
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, Is
Indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o "easy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautlflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 36 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cutiguiia Resolvent, $1.00 per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.S.A.
AFTEH OEFORE MOUSTACHE and WSISZHBS. «F0R6 AFjj
Brrgd’e Beard Flixir did thin,and
) mil do it on either bald head or
bare face. force* heavy Move,
taehe in from 3 to 4 toeeks and never _
‘ fail., 20,000 young men already connrioMea
toear full bearde, having used 1 to Copyright
3 pkt I. No injury, .only applied, tertam in effect Packet* 1 . M.
each 3 for 3«. (id., poet paid, tent under cover, free from observance.
Add’rett, Frank Douglm, Sole Agent^oxTdO^O^O^Sydnei^I^^^^
Copyrighted,
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable inf erraa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 766 G.P.O., Sydney.
Dr. HOFF —“ The Skin fn
Health and Disease,”
3s. 6d., all booksellers.
L. BRUCK, Publisher, Sydney.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
OISG-iilTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
&T ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es
pecially true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B.,
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. B., with variously devised names in
which the word “Hop” or “Hops” were used in
a way to Induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. AH such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter w hat their style or name is,
and especially those with the word Hop or
“ Hops * in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or counter-
feits Beware of them. Touch none of them. Use
nothing but genuine American Hop Bitters, with
a bunch or cluster of green Heps on tbe whit®
label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the glass.
Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chemists are
warned against dealing In imitations or counter-
feits.
“Sir,” said Dr. Johnson, “let ns take a
walk down Fleet-street.” What Dr. Johnson s ob-
ject was in perpetually recommending the peram-
bulation of Fleet-street, we know not, neither do
we care, and our own geographical position forbids
us to follow his example; but the
times ” indicate the near approach of the Ball
Season,” and it behoves us to take a walk some-
where, so that when our wives and daughters com-
mence, as they surely will, the usuaF hints and
innuendos anent Evening Dresses and other female
tllag. ree, ic is better, for our own peace of mmd,, to
bo able to close the discussion early with a distinct
intimation of the best place to go to, and, possibly
with a decent cheque. These are the thoughts
that recur to our minds at this season of the year,
and prompted thereby, we have taken Dr. John-
son’s advice in the spirit, if not in, the letter, and
have walked through this fair City of
and are, at any moment, prepared to give sage
counsel on this engrossing topic. There are ball
dresses and ball dresses, and we have viewei thern
in every aspect in which ball dresses appear. There
are those of light aereal texture, impossible to
Dl mxvux
describe, yet beautilul to behold, imparting a
loveliness to our sitters forms; there is
fairy-like iuvouucoo ™
the costume of rich and gorgeous silk or velvet,
audiug grace and dignity to the wearer. There are
likewise many others, more or less charming, ami
all. more or less, calculated to gladden our hearts
and lighten our pockets. We saw mauy pr®tty
things in our rambles, but of all the indescribably
beautiful articles of feminine bali-room at-
tire that were placed before us, the most inconceiv-
ably lovely and charming were those at Anthony
Hordern’s *
Referring to Lord Chief Justice Coleridge s
attack upon personal and society Items in Journal-
ism, Vanity Fair comment* rather neatly.-
“ The Queen does not agree with him, for she daily
sends to the newspapers accounts of her move-
ments, of the dresses and decorations of her ladles
and gentlemen, and catalogues (columns long
sometimes) of her company; and positively keeps
a permanent ollicial, called the Court Newsman,
whose only business it is to pry into life of the
Court in the very manner so much deprecated by
the Lord Chief Justice. Moreover Her Majesty
has quite recently published a book which is made
up of nothing else than the private details which
the Lord Chief Justice says ought not to be pub-
lished that is to say, of breakfasts, dinners.
luncheons dreWand Brown’s excellent demeanour
In waiting at table. Will he condemn his Sove-
For a spicy, and yet delicate little simile
compounder, it is hard to beat the average Presby-
terian elder. During a recent discussion on the
interminable “ Strong ” case in Melbourne, Elder
Campbell attempted to make things niee and
smooth by observing, “ Mr. Strong would not con-
descend to disclose his faith to us, and how could
we give him a certificate upon it ? He placed him-
self on the same footing as a maid-servant that
anv of us might employ, who, though a sober, and
a good worker, mignt still bear a suspicion against
her otherwise, and while we could testify as to her
general good character, we could not specif;y °°
the latter point.” Mr. Strong will, no doubt, feel
highly flattered at finding his orthodoxy compared
to a parlour-doxy’s virtue, and this reminds us that
Ill-natured persons remark there are a few church
elders (in otber lands, of course,) who could specify
very decidedly on the ‘ latter point if they
chose to do so. , .
Sydney is a pretty genial climate, out it
hasn’t produced this kind of thing to any extent.
The “ baby masher,” w© mean. In Frisco, says a
writer “a number of men, some of them, holding
the highest places in Society, daily post themselves
where they can ‘mash’ the school-girl, as sh
home from her lessons. Look at
fhot naiaied hand waving a pocket handkerchief at
Hit fiff maiden of fourteen 1 Mark how a tem-
porary flame lights up those bleared eyes I and you
eaniraagine the arti tidal stimulant, the search for
which is the sole thought of the senile baby
masher ” These ancient mashers are usually well-
♦Ywinand snare no amount of money and presents
thetr objects Youth is foolish, and young
girls bora in a sunny clime, are often women be-
?np«'thev wear long dresses. They have all the
vanity and love of dress that older women have,
without that experience which protects more
maidens from harm. Brothers who have
She tru 6 interests of their sisters at heart should
have an eye to these old frauds.
The Turcoman tribes inhabiting the dis-
.iriniii around Herat, on the north-west frontier of
have tendered their complete sub-
mit to the Russian authorities, who recently
accomplished the annexation of Merv by similar
S Herat is situated 270 miles to the south of
Merv, and has always been regarded as the key to
India. —
Our Eastern Empire I For what length of years
Rhall England, weak of purpose, hold her sway
O’er those broad lands ? The mighty foe she tears
Creeps, all unchecked, along his stealthy way.
Soothed by a promise—broken soon as made
Lulled by fair words, old England is asleep;
While Muscovy’s far-reaching plans are laid
Subtle as sure, unchangeable as deep.
Little by little, day by day, the seed
Of India’s downfall (ay, and soon) sown.
Yet British rulers dream, and take no heed
Nor will until the Empire’s overthrown.
It is a noteworthy fact that the poor old
heated Rum has the power of imparting a
mild sort of lunacy to all those who have any
dealings with it. For example, here’s a clip from
“Personal ” column“ The owner of
tve Ravage dog that bit the lady on the Hersemel
locate Leichhardt, on May 6th, can have the same
Staying expenses on or before the 12s h of May, or
will be sold to defray expenses.” We must
wJneatlv confess this knots us up completely, and
« any of our readers have enough time to spare
25 this and the general judgment, they
might sit down in a cool spot and tie cold things
® i thr heads and work out the following
yound their heads, ana w QwEeri by paying .
Senses on or before tae 12s h of May, entitled to
expenses on o 3 th lady or (3) the
Kernel' ? Secondly, failing
■"iment of expenses on or before the 12s h of
ig it (1) the owner, or (8) the savage dog, or (3)
May. js w " ” h Hersemel Estate that will be
tlfdefray expenses ? During the whole course
Vmg and chequered career, we have never
met a more mixed-up ad. than that, and yet, as a
Sde, are remarkably early risers.
Talk about being behind the age. Why,
are some people down Port Albert way, who
fully 500 miles behind the days of Noah, dome
fhP«eathediluvian fossils have never seen arail-
Ind when a certain Wesleyan parson, who
passing along, happened to give a lecture one
was passing »d there wa8 a mac hine in Mel-
hrne through which persons a mile apart could
Bourne inru g f ree iy, one of the church elders
co V'Tio an3 as he bounced out of the hall, declared
was the worst lie he ever heard since he
that Wo this world of sweat, and sin, and sorrow.
H a an advanced-idea old lady down there
And * a told that the tram from Sale
* lBO n<Tlan(I her in Melbourne about 11 p clock at
would iana . “ Oh, bless my soul, sir, I could
«ight, u the wild bush as late
nttV *w ” And a coloured barber in that same
«s that. Ana Doan you tell me th
Bvely town decl es at_« at ag th - bottom o’ thet
worlds round, ir - ca8e tbar waz a gemmenm
"thar B P lt 5 b “ n ®’ ha t tolo me he onct walked right
w.
KU m going “to give £50 to the
money, and a Humane »o tir^e eom ebody was at
o egg ox f ederation, ii ce Q Qf Servlce a?d
perry’s a frantio efforts to keep the blind before tbe
Victorian electors, and the equally fatuous arti-
cles written In English periodicals 'by men who
have nothing better to do, the subject here is as
dry as the inside of an anvil. N. S. Wales cannot
afford to lag behind at this juncture. A timely
grant, now, to the Lumpers Association and the
Associated Guild of Hard-up Pressmen, and a
small subsidy to the Society for the Propagation
of Sound Views on Sewerage, would go a long wt y
toward setting on foot an agitation that woulu
never be set at rest until the presidents of those
societies were in a position to stand as presidents
of the Australian Dominion (with a big, big D.)
Yes. That’s all we want. Stuart, and Berry, and
Service, and Griffiths would resign office to-mor-
row, and each play second fiddle to the other, it
only Federation were proclaimed. They don t
care about office. What they want is a Unitea
Australia-with themselves in a humble position.
What are dignities and Ministerial salaries com-
pared to Federation ?
Wong Chin Foo is his name, and a pushing
advanced-idea sort of heathen Chinee he is. Wong
Chin’s latest fad is to form a Chinese dramatic com-
pany to produce Chinese plays only, and travel
round, and give this antiquated old world ofpurs
a treat never yet witnessed outside of China. Wong
also says it is a barbarian mistake to suppose that
a Chinese drama takes thirty and forty years to
play. “ On the contrary,” says Mr. Foo, ‘ we often
play a whole tragedy, a farce, and a four-act opera,
with gymnastic performanC38 thrown in during
the intermission, in course of a single night.
Here’s another of our cherished illusions gone
bung. Wong Chin also modestly states that the
Chinese Shakspeare (who wrote about fourteen
hundred centuries ago) was called Kung Ming, and
that he could sit down and rattle off a couple of
historical dramas and a side-splitting farce before
dinner. This, however, is explained by the fact
that Kung Ming used to dine late. His greatest
work is called “ Chowtsanwonghaifooloongoum-
satki, or the Bald-headed Beggar of Bagdad.
What we long for most, however, is to see a com-
pany of Chinese Minnie Hopes and Agnes Con-
suelos play “ Olivette ” or “ Tambour-Major.
Man loves novelties, and we’re just about full up
of sawdust calves and palpitating gutta-percha
buzzims. Therefore we welcome Wong Chin and
his new ideas.
He was a Scotchman in the first place, and
in the second he was the Mayor of an up-country
city, where the malr whisky a man can stand the
raair fully is he respected. A few nights ago His
Worship gave a big spread to his aldermanic pals
and divers other worthy citizens also, and knowing,
from past experience that his little friendly re-
unions generally ended up with an exciting, go-as-
you-please old whisky contest, the cautious
magnate asked the local chemist if he could put
him up to a wrinkle by which he could fortify
himself against the. assaults of the all-potent
Muster Jameson. Feeling that his reputation was
at stake, the man of physic declared that a small
piece of an oyster shell placed in the bottom of a
glass would ensure sobriety, even if the toper
emptied the great tun of Heidelberg. On the faith
of this, the worthy Mayor drank glass after glass
in a style that surprised even those who knew him
well, and of course the result was that His Worship
was found under the table with his head in a spit-
toon long before the fun had been fairly started.
Next day, some of his friends called round to con-
dole with him, and the meenlster of his kirk even
ventured to hope he would never again attempt to
finish four bottles of Glenllvet in half an hour.
“ Hoot, mon I exclaimed the exasperated Mayor,
“ it was nae th’ whisky at a’ that doobled me up sae
soon : th’ whisky was ger-rand stoof, but it was
that darn’d wee bit o’ an ister that done a th
trooble.”
It was Thursday, for the first time this
year in Sydney. The morn, in russet mantle clad,
was walking o’er the dew of yon high eastern
hills, and the slush-cart men were loading up with
defunct cats, tram-carr’d dingoes, and entenc-
fever-laden vegetables. A man sat on an up-
turned candle-boxigrinding '’screed’ for a “weakly
daily. He was gone in the knees, bald on the head,
wore a red nose and showed other signs of
weakness. Suddenly he dabbed his pen in the wall
and limping over to a clerical-looking party, who
was sampling a bottle of hair restorer, said, “ S cuse
me. sir, but I don’t feel up to the comic element
to-day; couldn’t I strike you for a horse-race pass
or something of the kind ? The mind req uires re-
laxation.” “ Got none,” growled the editor;
“ can’t have saddle-flapping flutters every day, can
you?” “Anything in the way of a matinee or a
land sale luncheon knocking round ?” enquired
the man with the ruby nose. “None whatever,
replied the boss: “but, look here, tell you what
you might do. There’s what they call a boat race
on the Nepean to-day. Take a few gross of Tri-
bune posters along, and go up there and paste
them all over the bridge and enjoy some innocent
recreation.” “ Oh, blarst the Nepean, snorted the
scribe; “I’mafraid to go there. The sight of so
much fresh water would gimme th jumps im-
mediately. Guess I’ll troop round an report on
the marked improvement in some of our bar
luncheons.”
No, You Don’t !
1 have travelled the State,
And the finger of Fate .
Seemed to beckon me up off and on,
I have sighed for a hand
That would lift me and land
Me a little bit nearer the sun;
And have prayed, “Ah, my friends,
He's a true one that lends
To the man with a will to repay 1
But they said, “ Here’s your health,
We will help, if you’ve wealth, „
But, if not, do. Jack, please, go away I
I have loved, and have gone
With my heart set upon .
A fair life crowned with generous dow r,
And I spoke, and I told
How the gold would uphold
Me inlflghting my way into pow r;
And I cried, “ Fear me not.
Name the hour, and our lot *
Shall shine bright like the dawn of the day I
But she said, “If vou’re rich,
I don’t mind if we hitch.
But, if not, do. Jack, please, go away I
And I so go away,
And, by night or by day, . .
When the finger of Fate corkscrews out,
And it twiddles its tip.
I but hang down my lip, . .
And go on with the thing I mabout,
For I know that to rise
To my place in the skies
I would want a lift lent for a day,
And that all who would know
That my pocket is low ,,,
Would cry, “ Oh, do, Jack, please, go away I


Itching and Burning 8
Itching and Burning I
Eczema, or Salt Rheum, with its agonizing itch-
ing and burning, instantly relieved by a warm
bath with Cuticoba Soap, and a single applica-
tion of Cuticuba, the great Skin Cure. This re-
Seatod daily, with two or three doses of Cutiouba
.esolvent, the New Blood Purifier, to keep the
blood cool, the perspiration pure and unirritating,
the bowels open, the liver and kidneys active, will
speedily cure Eczema, Tetter, Ringworm,
Psoriasis, Scald Head, Dandruff, and every species
of Itching, Scaly and Pimply Humors of the Scalp
and Skin, when the best physicians and all known
remedies fail.
Fair reader have you tried the great per-
fume ? If not, there is a real pleasure in store for
you. Supply yourself, and our word for it, you
will never alter wish to be without a bottle of the
Murray and hA^.man’s Flqrioa Water,
Mashebb.—The best and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Briofclleld Hill.
A Fact Worth Knowing.—Are you suffering
with Consumption, Coughs, Severe Colds settled
on the Breast, Pneumonia, or any disease of the
Throat and Lungs ? If so, go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of Boscheo’s German Syrup. The
people are going wild over its success, and Drug-
gists all over our country are writing us of its
wonderful cures among their customers. It has
by far the largest sale of any remedy, simply
because it is of so much value in all affections of
this kind. Chronic cases quickly yield to it.
Druggists recommend it and physicians prescribe
it. If you wish to try its superior virtue, get a
Sample Bottle for 6d. Large size bottle, 3a. 6d,
Three 4we§ wiU relieve any case. Try it,
POTTING PIGEONS.
They had the best possible weather for the
big pigoon match at Yass. No wind and no sun; a
aky of lead overhead, and smiling landscape
around. We didn’t notice this last peculiarity, but
the local press did, and when it twigs a thing it
tells the public straight. There’s no trying to
gloss over stern truths about the local press.
Not to put too fine a point on it, we didn't think
Yass, on the smile, worth a cuss. We went there in
anticipation of meeting some of the highest de-
velopments of sport. For in Kingsley's splendid
novel of “ Geoffrey Hamlyn ” we had come across
this passage: ‘ Sam got separated from his father
in Yass, and, looking b ick, saw a cloud of dust in
the road, and dimly descried Rover, fighting vali-
antly against fearful odds, with all the dogs in the
township upon him. He rode back, and prayed
for assistance from* he men lounging in front of
the public-house : who, pitying his distress, pulled
off the dogs, till there were only left Rover and a
great white bull-dog to do battle. The fight
seemed going against Sam’s dog ; for the bull-dog
held him by the neck, and held him firm, so that
he could do nothing. . . . ram was crying;
and the men round were saying ‘ Ota, take the bull-
dog off: the colley’s no good to him ’—when a man
suddenly appeared at Sam’s side, and called out
• i’ll back the colley for five pounds, and here’s my
money.’ Half-a-dozen five-pound notes wore
ready for him at once ; and he had barely got the
stakes posted before the event proved he was
right. In an evil time, for him, the bull-dog loosed
his hold, and, ere he had time to turn round,
Rover had seized him below the eye, and was
dragging Lira abeut the road, worrying him
as he would an opossum ; so the discom-
fited owner had to remove his bull - dog
to save his life.” Now, that was something
like; what could be better than to see a dog seize
another dog “below the eye,” and worry him like
a ’possum, we’d like to know ? But Kingsley wrote
in ’58, and things have degenerated a good deal
since then in Yass. The dogs have no proper
pride now, and take all sorts of insults from each
other without an attempt at hostilities. And it
they made any such attempt, and anyone put a
note or two on it, the police there are so utterly
lost to the sense of British fair play, so fallen and
emasculated from the good old days, that instead
of wagering gold stem-winders with each other on
the result, they would separate the dogs and sum-
mon the bettors. The chief cause of this deca-
dence is undoubtedly the two kangaroos on the
front of the Council Chambers. Two plaster kan-
garoos, life-size, and painted salmon colour, would
certainly depress any community; but the infinite
pathos of the conception is heightened by the
look of intense yearning with which these poor
marsupials watch the happier and higher mammals,
all day long, dodging into the Commercial Hotel
over the road, to see how the time goes, lor
years and years, through the chill sleet and snow
of winter-through the sharp long nights, and
glad golden days of spring—through the intoler-
able heats of summer, when the town lay stifled
under a low dome of fiery brass, and every man s
watch went wrong, and more than ever had to be
corrected by the Commercial clock—through the
sober, softjdays of autumn, when the poplar leaves
whirled about the streets, and settled in little out-
of-the-way corners, they have sate up there with
mute, appealing eyes, waiting for the invitation
to ‘‘come across and have a booze, which
never came. nd the sight of so much suffering
on the part of two helpless dumb animals has
gradually cast a gloom over the little town, and,
we fear, lowered its tone irreparably. One fact
which we noted speaks volumes. Hold your ear
down close—we don’t want this to get about—in
the billiard rooms they have to keep the chalk tied to
the tables! At first we thought this precaution
was taken solely on account of the presence in
town of several Albury people, but we were in-
formed that it is the only way by which you can
make a fair thing at billiard-room keeping. We
were also informed that the balls and cues are
kept in a vault with stone walls eleven feet thick,
the secret of opening which rests between the hotel-
keeper and the billiard-marker in all cases, and
that when a billiard-marker talks of leaving, he is
promptly ghot through the bead by the hotel-
keeper, in order that the secret may die with him,
and the jury return a verdict of death from
natural causes, and add a rider censuring the
corpse for bringing it on hissolf. We wore also
informed that the marbles, and wicker flxin’ con-
taining them, are handed over at eleven every
night to one of the bankers, who is bound under
enormous penalties to see them locked in the safe
in the strong room until again required; and that
the table itself is secured by bolts through the
legs, which go right down into the bed rock. But
we don't vouch for all this—people are such liars,
you know. But we saw the chalk tethered up
with our own eyes, and wc noticed that although
the string employed was strong, it wao cheap, in
case of a double loss. After hearing and seeing
these things, we went out to see the match, and,
on the whole, were disappointed. G. H. Terry,
who won the big money, was the only one who
killed all his birds, and he was favoured
by fortune in having good birds, which went away
from the trap, mostly at right angles, in a medita-
tive sort of way until he blocked ’em. But most
of the birds were tame and out of sorts and unfit
to die. For instance, in most cases, a wild-looking
blue-rock would be led out to the sacrifice, and the
public would say to the shooter, “ keep ycr eye on
him, he s a goer,” and the shooter would jam his
toe right up to the peg, to get the last possible
inch, and stretch forward into an almost horizon-
tal position, to get another yard, and burst his
brace buttons off, and finally, after having cor-
rectly “covered” the trap about forty times,
would have just enough energy left in his pale,
perspiring anatomy to whisper “ Pull.” And when
the trap fell, the blue-rock would sit there for a
minute or two considering, and then walk away
leisurely to hunt for grass seeds; then someone
would throw a brick on him, and he would work
out from under it again and start after more grass
seeds. T hen, when the whole air was dark with
flying missiles, and the shooter just about to faint,
the bird would suddenly rise, and, after being
wildly fired at, disappear over the hills, heading
for the Gippsland Lakes and looking fit. Then,
again, another would fly straight at the crowd in
search, like his ancestors of old, of “rest for the
sole of his foot,” generally selecting for this pur-
pose the head of a respectable ratepayer or an
intoxicated clergyman. Altogether, it waen t
much. The cleanest work was done in the shoot-
ing off tor second place between “Carver” and
“Chester,” who were in splendid form, and like
Captain Corcoran in “ Pinafore,” could apparently
hive “gone on like that for ever.” They ulti-
mately gave it up in despair and divided the spoils.
We decided not to wait for the second day. The
excitement was too great for us—the strain on our
nervous system too intense. Besides, we haven't
been brought up as we might have been, and Yass
has too many temptations for our frail nature.
We wore not morally strong enough to pass a night
alone in a town with all that chalk, and cbme out
of the fire unscathed. So we got the money to
return from a friend of ours, and gave him our
paper for it. We don't think much of Yass. It
isn’t the simple hearty place it was when Major
Buckley and Sam used to ride over to it from
Baroona forty years ago.
Now that the industrious burglar happens
to bo a-burgllng in our midst, the following talc
sounds nice and cheery :—Two burglars recently at-
tempted to burgle a house in ’Frisco, opposite to
where two excitable young men resided. The
names of the excited, were O. P. Olwell, and Jabez
Culver. The lady of the house in question, hear-
ing the knights of the crowbar and “Jimmy”
prowling round the pantry, did what every other
sensible woman would do under similar circum-
stances, viz , began to yell like mad, and raise a 40-
fog-horn-power alarm. Naturally enough, this
woke up O. P. Olwell and Jabez Culver. Both
heroes rushed out to the rescue, almost at the
same time, but Culver was the smartest on his feet,
and got a little ahead of Olwell. He was after-
wards sorry that there was so much Deerfoot
ability stowed away in his boots. The burglars
seeing that the pair of heroes were armed with
murderous weapons, rightly conjectured that the
new arrivals were not actuated by any friendship
towards them, and so they quietly slid away in the
darkness. In the excitement of the moment, Mr.
Olwell, catching sight of Mr. Culverdodging round
a door, mistook him for one of the burglars, and
in the twinkling of a bed - post, filled his
binjie up with buck-shot. Things have not been
exactly Olwell with Mr. Olwell since he fired
that hasty shot. Jabez died, and now they’re
trying O. P. to see why he shouldn’t step across to
the Golden Shoah, and keep bis old bed-mate com-
pany.
Minds of great men frequently run in the
same groove. There are times when, as snuffy cid
Dr. Johnson once observed, easy coincidences of
thought will happen to all master minds who con-
sider the same subjects. That’s what’s the matter
with us to-day. During the feverish excitement
of the last snalk-yarn season, we told the tale of a
postmaster, a bank manager, and a commissioner
of conditional purchases, who were “ kissing the
baby ” in a certain hotel up North one morn, and
chatting familiarly about things in general, and
the result of a recent election in particular, when
a strange event occurred. It appears that the
hotel in question was being painted at the time,
and the decorative artist had left his pots in an
outhouse on the previous night. Now, it so hap-
pened that a tiger saaik from the adjoining scrub
went nosing about for prey at sunrise, and acci-
dentally tumbled into a can of mixed vermilion.
Not liking his bath, however, he scrambled and
wriggled nis way into the hotel bar just as the
postmaster was telling the landlord that this fair
land of oura was being strangled with the fetid
breath of a hellish despotism, and that he d send
hia boy over with the 18d. after dinner, when the
painted snaik raised its cochineal-coloured head and
began to hiss. Then the three thirsty souls bounded
over the bar, and simultaneously yelled, “Groat
Heavens! I have got ’em again,” and then off they
scooted to rouse the local doctor. And, by the last
mail we find Thdth tells a story of the conversion
of an English canon to total abstinence. He was
sitting in a hotel smoking, when a sore-eared yaller
dawg came in and looked around. One of the
guests shuddered violently, and gave an agonising
cry. But the waiter coming up, reassured him
saying: “Don’t be afraid, sir, it’s all right. Thats
a reed dog." And wading still further along, we
find Dagonet Sims tolls the tale of a party of
young officers who were once quartered abroad,
and had been celebrating birthdays, and having a
high old time for several weeks. They were all
sitting in a quiet room, musing on the vast im-
mensity of the great infinitude (which means
tailor’s bills, and such like), when a measley,
mangy old scaled rat suddenly crept out of a hole
and ran across the room. Or the eight men pre-
sent, though all saw the sight, never a one spoke a
word. But there fell a great sadness on them all,
and with ashy lips, and trembling knees, they
sallied off to bed. The next morning, oneot them
looking about, came upon a rat-hole in the corner.
He looked at it a moment, and then exclaimed,
“ By Jawve; it was a rat after all.” And the other
seven when they saw the rat-hole rushed towards
the discoverer, fell upon his neck and wept, mid
with one accord exclaimed, “Thank God! Old
Johnson was right. Great minds do occasionally
strike on the same sentiments.
Let the enemies of Old England and of the
“ Empire ” croak themselves hoarse in their
traitorous vaticination?, While colonists like Mr.
Henmker Heaton are to the fore to risk captivity
and life in defence of the old Hag, there is little
fear of the loss of oven one link in the golden chain
binding the “ Mother of nations ” and her vigorous
offspring. “ What did Mr. Heaton do ?” Great
Jove I But we will be calm. Well, he left Sydney
some months ago in a French steamer, passed
through a cyclone that shifted the lee scuppers,
and touched at the “ He Bourbon ” where his fame
had preceded him, and where he was incontinently
pounced upon by the Governor to add lustre to an
official banquet. While there, he learnt from a
clerk at the British Consulate that, on the absurd
Elea of insufficient postage, the French authorities
ad declined to forward to Aden a mail-bag from
H.M.S. Tourmaline. The bag contained secret
drspatches of a compromising and dangerous
character. Mr. Heaton seized the situation. Then
he seized the sack, wrapped it in a torn “Union
Jack,” brought it on board his vessel, placed it in
his bunk, double-locked the door, grabbed a hand-
spike, and defied the Republic. The French officials
were beside themselves They would have given
a year’s pay to lay their hands on those despatches,
hut the plucky deed was done, and the papers
safely landed at Aden. This is what Mr. Heaton
did, and his action shows that the yeast that
leavened the men of Blenheim, Trafalgar, and
Waterloo, is working in their descendant}, or
at least this is a mild paraphrase of his
own published version of his feat. The
subjoined extract from the Mauritius Govern-
ment Gazette of the 26th April, 1884, contains an
official recognition of Mr. Henniker Heaton’s
presence of mind and pluck under trying cir-
cumstances The Mauritius Government
Gazhtte, No. 34. Published by authority. Satur-
day, April 36, 1834 Government Notices. No. 76
of 1884 Mails despatched from H.M.S. Tourma-
line, from Tam ,tavc. The following Utter from
Captain Rob. H. Boyle, R.N., Senior Officer, East
Coast of Africa, is published for general informa-
tion. By command of H's Excellency the Go-
vernor. H.N.D. Beyts Acting Colonial Secretary.
Colonial Secretary's Office, 31st April, 1884 :—
H.M.S. Tourmaline, at Mauritius. 19th April,
1884. Your Excellency,—My attention has been
directed to statements made in the local papers,
respecting mails despatched from H.M. Ship under
my command, from Tamatave vi4 Bourbon. I
should ill requite the courtesy of Admiral Qalibor,
if I permitted the remarks to pass unnoticed.
That gallant officer has done all in his power to
facilitate the mall service for us, and, on the occa-
sion referred to, the sole reason for the embarka-
tion of the malls in any other than the usual
mode, was that English postage stamps were
affixed, and they would not pass current through
the Bourbon Post-office. I, therefore, specially
requested our to do what he could to get
them sent. Prom him I heard that ho had had
some difficulty in forwarding them. This is the ex-
planation of the “secret despatches” —no other.
I should esteem it a favour if you would make
this generally known. I should regret extremely
if the French Admiral was credited with any
obstruction to our mail service—the contrary is
the case. I have the honor t" be, sir, your Excel-
lency’s most obedient servant, Eobt. H. Boyle,
Captain and Senior Officer, East Coast of Africa.
His Excellency Sir John Pope Hennesey, K.O.M.G.,
&o. &c. &c., Governor.”
A Fishing Yarn.
- Mr. Periwiggle, having obtained a
holiday, determines to go a-fishing.
He takes no provisions: only a frying-
pan.
Mr. Periwiggle makes a start, at ten bob a day
for the boat, which the proprietor has assured him
has been used by Hanlan. (What the proprietor
did not mention was that Hanlan used it to smoke
in, on the beaoh.)
Awful crisis. The Hanlan-approved boat
springs a leak. “ Lucky I brought my frying-
pan,” said Mr. Periwiggle.
Even at the worst, it come* in
handy as a signal of distress.
“ He went down somewheres ’ere about.”
I An interval of three davs is supposed to
I have elapsed. Monster of the deep stranded.
Interest of the natives.
1 Unexpected appearance of Mr. Periwipgle, who explains that he has had
a good time: and that, with a box of matches and a frying-pan, the Jonah
I business was no special hardship. Shark cutlets from the interior, he de-
1 dares, are delicious.


VANITY FAIR.
“Yea, you may come again next Sunday
evening, dear, but ” and sbe hesitated.
*’ What is It, darling ? Have I given you pain?"
hb asked, as sije remained silent. "You didn’t
mean to, I’m sure,” she responded, “ but next time
please don’t wear one of those collars with the
points outward-they scratch so.’’ Mrs. Oscar
Glide's bridal gown has been an object of attrac-
tion lately. It is saffron hued, the colour the
Greek maidens wore on their wedding day. It has
violet trimmings; these Hellenic brides would not
have tolerated th<?ra — but then the authority on
aesthetics is Oscar Wilde... “Why don’t you get
up as early as you used to a few mouths ago ? ”
angrily asked a wife of her lazy husband. "Be-
cause, my dear, it’s sleep yoa r ," he grinned, as ho
turned over for another snooze — "I wonder how
Mrs. P. manages to get so many ‘ lions ’ 10 come to
her parties?" “Perhaps,” answered her neigh-
bour, looking meaningly in the direction of some
ladies in very diioollotted dresses,"perhaps it is their
taste for human llesh that brings them."—“ You
are now one,” said the minister to the happy
pair he had Just tied together, with a knot
they could never undo. "Which one?’’ asked
the bride. " You will have to settle that
for yourselves," said the clergyman It
turns out that El Mahdl has eighteen wives. He
is the man whom General Gordon was going to
send homo by moi al suasion A London jeweder
has taken to making bracelets and a number of
similar ornaments of iron. The articles are said to
possess much beauty of b th design and execution,
but rich people will not nuy them, because they
fear they will become common, and poor people
stand shy of them because they are so dreadfully
cheap Is it wicked tor ladies to encourage the
slaughter of birds by using those animals as orna-
ments for their hats? This query, at present, is
agitating the breasts of some moral philosophers.
Would it so agitate them if only the featters of the
dead birds were so used ? And what is to bo said
of seal-skin dolmans, and leather rboes, and kid
gloves, and cat-gut fiddle-strings, and reporter’s
saveloys? Oh, talk of something else, do I —
There are no underskirts on Patti whe ; she ap-
pears dressed as the heroine in “ La Traviata." Her
costumes tit like a glove from the shoulders to the
hips, and are almost as cksc thence down to the
feet. She has quite enough filling all by herself,
and is a good deal more expressive than if bundled
In numerous skirts Forty per cent, of the cigar-
ettes smoked in the United States are used by
ladies. And why not?... At some of the balls re-
cently given, there has been an absence of pro-
grammes. Some of the ladies say that they con-
sider this arrangement saves them irom many a
bore, as they can easily i e engaged when they
cannot be shown up by a blank line on thtir pro-
gramme. Its a "white lie” to say you are en-
gaged when you are not Just so. So, when a
man comes, you had better say “ Vou can’t dance
well enough, and I won’t dance with you.” It will
soothe his feelings In Vienna, ladies have taken
to fencing, and given displays in select audiences,
wearing, of course, tight garments. In New York,
they have adopted the more primitive style 01
warfare. A speculator formed a troupe ot female
boxers. Two heavy weights, Miss Moore and Miss
Smith, fought a drawn contest. First round, one
lady made for the other’s back hair, and refused to
let go, although the victim repeatedly screamed,
“O, you mean thlngl" Then Miss Smith wanted
to take off her gloves to scratch Miss Moore, but
was prevented. Two feather weights next ap-
peared dressed as pages, and screamed, and pum-
melled one another, and sobbed by turns for over
half-an-hour. The boxing was witnessed by an
attendance of “young bloods” about town, who
derived much refined enjoyment from It
Mr. Weedon Grossmith has completed a portrait of
Miss Fortescue. The eyes are ot the deepest violet
blue, the hair blonde fade, and the young lady
is given in bail dress of white satin and
blonde silk lace, set off by a bouquet of pink
roses, her only ornament, save her beauty. ..
“ Leg ” has long been an interdicted word in de-
mure society: now you mustn't say "breast.” If
you want that portion of the fowl on the table,
you look modestly down and ask for " white meat.”
....Vaccination on the upper arm was probably
adopted in the primitive age when modest women
wore a covering to that portion of their person.
But since so many vaccination scars now disfigure
fair arms in every ball-room, Fltznoodie proposes
that ladies should bo vaccinated on the upper por-
tion of their "main supports,” where it has not
yet become fashionab e to discard clothing alto-
gether Mashers meeting on the Bloc : "Well.
Cbab: haow d’ye dah ?” " Plrs-clah. Going fah ?”
“No, not fah. ,v "How fah?" “ Only to th’tram-
cah.” "Oh, deah. Tah-tah.” The most emphatic
women show they possess any amount of bustle—
Mashers now wear watch ribbons of black watered
silk,94-inch wide; but, for full dress, white silk
ribbon is often worn... .Domino parties are fashion-
able in New York Paris dudes wear small dia-
mond studs at the sides of their collars now, to
hold the necktie in place Woman-duster is now
a definite profession. Rich people have their
rooms, like museums, so full of the costliest deli-
cate articles, that the lady of the house has more
than she can do herself to attend to them, and
dares not trust them to ordinary servants. So
women-dusters go round regularly to the rich
mansions. A duster must be sure and quick in her
movements; know how to handle every sort of
knick-knack and move it safely, and how to
arrange the things tastefully; must carry half-a-
dozen different kinds of brushes, and never be
careless A new thing under the sun at ’Frisco;
and, says Una, we have Just seen a specimen.
She was going along like a “pacer” up the home
stretch, and looked as if she wanted to go the
opposite way all the time. She was heading east,
and had a wild aspect. Her gown was rich ; it
clung to her, like a weeper to a funeral mute, and
went flipilap in the mud so as to form a dado to a
dress looking otherwise dejected for want of a
touraure. H er bang was long and fluffy. She was
articulated as to anatomy, and no one Jostled her,
for fear she would go to pieces in the street. She
is not a professlona 1 pedestrian, nor a crank; she
la Just a plain, fashionable girl who has been to
London, and come back with the Ellen Teiry walk.
...The hair Is gradually being worn higher, and
“ shingled bangs ” are the latest style. For these,
the front hair over the forehead is cut in three
different lengths regularly graded, and a bushy
effect Is produced by putting the hair up loosely
in curl papers India is the paradise of marriage-
able beiles. No matter how penniless a passable
young lady may bo, she has a crowd of admirers—
from grizzly old generals to soft young subalterns
and rich ague-shaken merchants, ready to snap up
every eligible new arrival. But tue belles don t
last long there. If materfamilias does not get her
daughters wooed and won after a Simla season, it
says little for the posiesjlon of even ordinary
charms of person. But timla society is not as good
as it might be Small dogs are the correct thing
now for the London woman. Fido is daintily
clothed, and carried by a footman when he gets
tired. Starving children cannot get crusts to eat,
but dear little Fido has the daintiest morsels of
game, and a doctor when he gets sick The darling
sits in his mistress’s silken lap, and gets such ear-
nest kisses. Next to a gilt-edired prayer-book and
the consolations of a fashionable curate, comes the
pet dog, undoubtedly.... Artificial flowers are now
scented with the odour of the ordinals Besides
which, it is interesting to know that ladies wear
scented bustles— What made her noticeable:—
“ The diamonds she wore wore of brilliancy rare.
And she dressed in fine laces and satin;
She spoke French and German with accent most
fair,
And wasn’t a novice in Latin.
Her wonderful wealth waa almost on a par
With her rare and c jrrect nomenclature
But her feet were regarded by all, near and far,
As grand and sublime freak* of Nature.”
....Twosingular, and pretty,names in English no-
bility are those of the Ladies Russell; onelsEla,
the other Ermyntrudo Some people profess to
be terribly shocked at tno leg shows seen on the
stage, but there are two ways of looking at every-
thing. a London ballet girl, who peeped into an
aristocratic bai'room, said, “ I was never so
ashamed in my life. The ladles looked as If they
had only half their drosses on.”—Human hair has
been found in the pyramids preserved for 4000
years. And the Egyptian women wore not so oare-
ful aa modern ladioa, either. They never took
their hair off at night and hung it over the back of
a bedroom chair to keen It from wearing out ..
Roller skating still holds its own in 'Frisco, and
a new club, the “Pacific Skaters,” has been very
successful this year In its ring meetings
The affection that lies hidden In the “dears " and
“darlings” of women is unspeakably deep, a
Sydney lady the other day, caught in a shower,
dropped in for shelter at a friend's house in the
suburbs, several gentlemen being there. “ My
feet are so wet, I'll have to ask you to lend me a
pair of slippers, dearest.” “Certainly, love, but
do you think mine will fit you ?” (Glance at the
company.) “ Oh, I think so darling ; I can put
cork soles in, you know, and paper in the toes.”
Christine Nilsson has coffee and roll for break-
fast ; a generohs dinner, but no other meal, and a
hot bath before retiring. It is rigorous, but Nilsson
makes a supreme point of keeping “ fit ” to keep
her engagements. She only failed to do once, and
then unavoidably The “Accordion" sfcirt is so
called because it is composed of close folds or I
pleats which lie in place without stitch or pin, and
when pulled out prove to be yards wide, and will
fall back in their places like a shut-up fan. It will i
be the rage, as Mary Anaerson has been wearing i
It....At an Imperial Ball in the Winter Palace, 8t.
Petersburg, 2500 were present, which is the usual
number. The Emperor and Empress of Russia
led off in a polonaise, and the English am- i
bassador danced the opening quadrille with
the Empress. These balls always end at two
o’clock. But they're liable to end earlier
any time the dynamite works well We
congratulated a friend on his marriage, re-
marking, cheerfully : “ If you get the right one,
there’s nothing on earth like it.” With a dubious
look, he replied : “ 4h ! and if you don't get the
right one, there's nothing on earth like it.” The
seven Sutherland sisters, in America, have wonder-
ful hair. Sarah's, the eldest, is black, and only
reaches to the waist; but Victoria’s is seven and a
half fept long, and trails on the ground when let
down. Isabella and Grace have both six feet
length of locks. Naomi’s, just touching the
ground, forms a solid bunch six inches in diameter.
Dora and May, too, have to be very careful when
scuffling with their young men, as it takes at least
ten minutes to fix it up once their hal- gets pulled
down .. Philadelphia takes credit for having more
dancing married women in its society than any
other city. Not much to boast of either.... Tennis
(not lawn, but court tennis) is as fashionable as
anything now in New York, and all the beauties
play it. The chief beauty of tennis is that it on-
ables girls to appear In symmetrical, closely %vrap-
ped, and altogether charming drossev, and gives
the men an opportunity to accurately indicate the
outlines of the calves of their legs... Loudon
crinolines are Increasing in size, and a different
snaps is considered essential lor every dress. A
lady can’t sit down in a walking crinoline any
more than she would ride or drive la her dancing
attachment. Some are made entirely of lace, and
are marvels of elegan* e. We really don’t see why
—but the reason is probably one of those things
that are bid from the wise and prudent
Digitated half-hose are now commonly sold for
men, as well as lor Mary Andersons. They are a
boon for those who grow corns and bunions,
woven without seams, but are expensive The
rage for the antique has produced, among other
curios, the Paleographic note-paper; the edge is
irregular, as if torn, «nd also blackened, as it
cnarred; the surface is stained and rusty-looking.
The envelopes bear artificial imitations of dirt
stains. Some might call the paper simply dirty,
others call it “artistic,” and pay 4d. a sheet for it.
Another paper is dull red, with gold dots on it; it
is a reduced copy of the paper covering the walls
in some old country churches, and is singularly
ugly. Then there arc th« hammered silver, and a
variety of other fashionable note-papers, with
“agitated” surfaces A novel fancy costume at
a ball, was a Carrier Pigeon, in grey nun’s cloth,
the full draperies caught up with pigeons, the
edges sewn with a fringe of sealed letters, the
bodice ornamented with tufts of grey feathers,
and a pigeon was arranged in the hair. Another
was a Masherette. The head looked over the top
of a five-inch collar, there was a tailed coat and
scanty skirt; and the costume was completed by a
broad expanse of shirt-front, satin cravat, straw-
berry kerchief, tasselled crutch stick, and eye-glass.
. .. It is estimated that 55,000 reproductions of the
Venus of Milo are sold in Europe every year, and
the London Figauo save that its photographs con-
stantly have a greater sale than those of the most
popular living beauties It was a masquerade
ball, and she said to him. “ Can you guess what
character I represent ?” “ Yes,” he replied “The
Greek Slave, isn’t it ?” She wears a high-neck
dress now, bat they never speak as they pass by...
Grace (whispering) : “ What lovely boots your
partner’s got, Mary I” Mary (ditto): “Yes; un-
fortunately ho shines at the wrong end.”.. .“Uncle,
when sis sings in the choir on Sunday nights, why
does she go behind the organ and taste the tenor’s
moustache ?” “ Ob, don t bother me, my boy, I
suppose they have to do it to find out if they’re in
tune.” If men knew all that women think they
would be twenty times more audacious. If women
knew what men think they would be twenty times
more coquettish.
“There’s something wrong abrewing ” in
re the Parramatta Industrial Exhibition, some-
body won’t give particulars about balance-sheets,
and other such absurdities, ami then there are
disputes about soda-water contracts, and Ban-
nister, and everybody throwing blnne upon every-
body, and, generally, money and the devil to pay.
Bannister seems to be out of it this time, and some
local patrons of the youth of Austi alia appear to
be tearing their hair. We humbly \ enture this
opinion about people who are dying to advai ce the
technical education of youth: John Russia and
Carlyle have said—[Let them go without saying.
Say it somewhere eise.—Ed. B.]
Tkuth declares this is really an extract
from letter by a British officer—an officer of the
gallant Black Watch, too. It seems as incredible
as Hewett and Graham’s offer of a reward for the
assassination of Osman Digna. Read: “All our
officers fought like devils, and how we only lost
one I can't tell. God is good, and must have put
his shield round our brave, gallant officers. I ti>ck
a splendid spiar, and killed a groat many wounded
men with it; It went right into their hearts like
lightning, and their blood flowed out on the sand.’
A Christian soldier, this. God is good, when be
shields officers, who are for the time like devils l
Inforentially God is bad when devilish officers are
killed. Faugh I
Lucky it came into their heads. Prospects
were very dull, indeed. The future, right awey
on to Christmas Day, looked stale and flat. Evi-
dently Major Smith was to die fizzling; not burst-
ing through the Cimmerian darkness of an unholy
coalition, and with his arms outstretched in antici-
pation of the plaudits of posterity. No; but just
fizzling. And Quick was to hurt himself with the
force with which he would sit down. And John
Duffy was to begin to teach catechism in Sunday-
school. And little Mirams was to give his whole
soul to getting those tidy villas off nis hands. He
would not only let the poor man have a palatial
residence ruinously cheap, but he would Jeua him
the money to pay the rent. This was how thinj 8
would wag till Christmas, and who could bear it {
Not the people of Melbourne, be sure. Still, what
could they stir? After several days’ weary think-
ing, it all at once came into their heads that a
celebration, a jubilee of some kind, would be the
thing. Then they seized the colonial records and
ran them back. Unfortunately, they couldn’t run
buck far. They wished they could. They wished
they could trace the colony back to the days of the
Normans. But this was Impossible. So they went
back to the little strip of space that lay between
them and blank nothing. Then they put a man
named Edward Henty there. And then they cried,
“We'll make a celebration, a jubilee over him.
He’s fifty years off. Hooray I W ish he was a hun-
dred I But we’ll call ft a semi-centenary, and will
make the Southern Hemisphere burn with our
grand exhibition.” And so Victoria is to make up
for the dulness of its coalition.
Even a man with the brilliant parts and
pure ambitions of T. S. Cook,the “dlvil-divil” of the
Melbourne bakers, does not find life all beer and
skittles. Some days that self-sacrificing philan-
thropist and protector of the poor makes £5, the
informer’s share of the fines, and his enemies forth-
with conjecture that if he be allowed to amass
wealth at that rate he will become a dangerous
power in the South Pacific. But the philanthropist
explained in court lately that there is a world of
difference between a five-pound day and five
pound a day. So there is, when you think of it.
And ho drew attention to what it costs him to
make a £5 day. He can’t now go into a baker's
shop and ask for a loaf of bread. Every baker
within forty miles knows his amiable phiz. He
has, therefore, to employ a naan or a boy, and
sometimes two or three. Then he must cut around
quickly, and, as a consequence, cab-fare becomes
an Important item. Sometimes these expenses
come to £5 Is. Hd.; and when they do, it is evident
that the tlouth Pacific is in no danger from Mr
Cook. But, hard as the fate is, Mr. Cook’s virtue
has helped him hitherto to bear up against it. He
recalled the many ounces of bread that, by his
instrumentality, reached the poor man’s stomach,
and wnich, but for the philanthropic ardour glow-
ing within him, would have remained In the greedy
baker’s flour-barrel. And to recall this consoled
him. But Bernard Smith, P.M., wants to make
him a martyr all at once. When Cook has worked
up a five-pound day, the P.M. says he won’t give
him tobacco. This is cruel. Cook is willing to die
by inches, but not to be murdered. Beho d T. S.
Cook, the pure philanthropist, weeping!
WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is It so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,
friends are generous and affectionate ; they aro
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others ; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A tew doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with Indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
I was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, I
used it myself, the result being that I was myself
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you aro at liberty to make
what use you please of this.
Yours,
JOHN KELLY.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney.
OLD LADY (who has been in the sun, to Parson): “HI, GOOD MAN, HELP ME WITH MY
BUNDLE."
PARSON: “ DEAR, DEAR I A WOMAN IN SUCH A CONDITION. DO YOU KNOW WHERE
ALL DRUNKARDS GO TO?"
0. L.: “AH SURE, THEY JUST GO WHERE A DROP OF GOOD DRINK IS TO BE GOT."
STAVE 1.
Brown he was a jolly toper.
Nose of him was like a plum ;
He could beat the Shkouo reporters—
Even them—at drinking rum.
He drank late, and he drank early—
Took with milk his morning tot.
Took it through the day with water,
In the evening took it hot.
“ 1 can drink,” said he, ‘‘by thunder,
Anything you like to ask—
Takes some drink to knock me under—
Dance, too, on the empty cask.
STAVE 2.
(A short one.)
“ Brown (his life was short and merry)
Thought that he could dauceine down
(’Tis the rum-cask that is speaking),
Now I dance on Mister Brown.”
STAVE 3.
(Moral.)
Never drink strong rum ; or, if you
Drink it, drink it from a flask—
Never be insulting; and, sirs,
Never jump upon a cask!


THE
IGNO
IPla/Xio.
v:;:
Isis
i ffiS
I
THE
nXigrnon
PliilTO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever In-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size iu Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
BSig , non
PIii2TO
Is Iron-framed, Doable Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Migrnon
Isi-A-KTO
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
Wilmer
PlillTO
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY I
PERFECTION 0F TOUCH 1
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF 1
THE
W ilmer
Z=>Z-^.ZTO
B?" Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
“WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
nigholsomT and go.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
MOULTON'S
™ COMPLAINT positively cured by MGCLTOX’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, ami
"■c can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
J EPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
I HE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
Known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it Is possible for a Pill to be.
Mold Everywhere, I»rl«e I«. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ncr.
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss oi
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By Its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 25s. a case.
Sold everywhere. Sole Proprietors MARSHALL
BROTHERS, M.P.S., Manufacturing Chemists,
104 and 104 Market-street, near Hyde Park,
Ryrtnov V R-AII Imitations Illegal. TAKE NO
SUBSTITUTE.
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may bo desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Brigher writes from Kirby, O..
.July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation 1 should have been
eutirely'bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
( Ohio) Enquirer, says : “AVer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sur-o cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procured!, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness —a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
lias continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now vise it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
, PREPARED BY >-'■
Dp.J C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
BLLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
s
fcKlSH BAlS
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pi
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair; It cc
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can n<
be also had in a golden colour, which is especia
suited for fair or golden-haired children and pi
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most ooi
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the fa*
hamds, and arms, and is perfectly free from a
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it dispen
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples. &c
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OP TYRE pi
duces immediately a perfect change in red or gr
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a g’ . ssy and pi
manent brown or black, whic'n colour neith
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlam
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avc
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Ketail Agents: Elliott Bros
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
rjlHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depdt
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
XI HARBOUR STREET.
BLEND
mark]
TRAD
Ji
2&/S TfcftfS
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY—Thin Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whlakieg, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Solo
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
(Ml
'C£LEBRff& : l
°^ScotdjW|W
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
sole'agent
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION^
tar MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
PAPERS AN GINQ S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSBRi PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES. AO.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS' & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Va
nishes. Brushes, Gold Leaf, &o.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
Eo
A
ft
«
S
■'-i
0i
*9
n
O
'M
INVALUABLE '4
tH ose (L^/
ion.ll IL**°s
ADAPTED FOR
Australian Colonies
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE,
15
S
A
■U
&
o
i
*
i
r
s
R
e
a
o
SI
CA
*
%
o
S
3
*
©
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLE
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
** 2s. per lb.
The TEAS sold
by this Associa-
tion have been
specially selected
and blended by an
Expert, to meet
the taste and re-
quirements of the
Australian pub-
lic.
TEA ASSOCIATION - .
JRADE
MARK.
[Registered.)
OFFICE and DEPOT:
114 Pitt-street, Sydney.
2s. Cd. per lb.
Our TEAS are
unequalled in the
Australian mar*
het and unex-
celled in the
world for quality,
flavor b strength |
the public may
confidently rely
upon always re*
ceiving a Tea of
uniform standard
and excellence.
J. Henochsberg ,
Manageb.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Load, Spelter, &c.
UST” Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksraithinsr
Plumbing, Gasfltting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM ” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &o.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney*
Full particulars and price on application.
TFT lll:nn.or o's Palace ZEaTotelZ
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 3), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
.— m —i
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License. Ia“now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the weh*
known Res tan rant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 3. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mall boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietors


WeakNervwMen
Whose debility, exhausted
. powers, prematura decoy
, and failure t® perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to i-obnst health
and vigorous manhood in
THE WIARSTON BOLUS.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
V DhysIcalDecayisumformly
enocessful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52Castleroagh St., Sydney
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-streetp
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
F
INEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ABE
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester. TJ.s.A.
MASON BROTHERS,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
EXHIBI
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA.
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
J. T. GAFKN’8
Schnapps and Geneva.
t A. MttJ-iV IN and SONS’
Edlnbmgn Pale 6te.
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
W* TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY^
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles. Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Obbornk ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY M0N0P0LE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
CO.
Robert butcher
(Late William Long),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, 8YDNB1 3
Country Orders receive orom-ut attention.
Printed and Published hr Thh Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited). Hi Pltt-st., Sydney. N.S.W.
Said John Hawkins in the D.T., concerning
baker’s hours:—“The men commence work at 10
p.m. and work all night with only 10 or 15 minutes
for meals,’’ and he puts it to another corres-
pondent, a Master Baker, whether It is not too
much for any man who has any regard for his life.
Also, “ they leave the bake-house at half-past six
a m.” We tot that up to be eight hours exactly,
because tho man of dough is not particular about
a few minutes when he pops outto Been man.
Isn’t this thing, something like the 3>£lb. four-
pound loaves, a bit overdone ? If a man has any
regard for his life ” he ought not to work at all.
For our part, we wish to do nothing, bat shine as
spectators. But, somehow, as no blundered into
being born of parents who tailed to leave us a few
paltry millions, wo have to work more than eight
hours a day and we don’t howl about it, either
The Bulletin is certainly the last paper In Aus-
tralia to back up the greed of wealthy employers
when they try to get the life’s blood out of
a working man. But it ia too often forgotten
that no man in any of the professions can hope to
come to the front who limits himself to eight
hours' work a day. Says Strauss, a Libera),
if one ever existed: “ Twelve, fourteen,
sixteen, hours are the penalty of the pro-
fessional man who wishes to go beyond
his fellows.” Anybody knows, of course, thtt
that strain is unnatural : but anyone may be
equally certain that the best legal men, literary
men, thinking men, actually take nearer sixteen
than eight hours a day out of their bodies. Their
advantage, of course, is that a successful profes-
sional man may take weeks and weeks of leisure
to recruit; whilst the tradesman can only look to
his few short hours. Which of the two gets most
pleasure out of life, however, or lives longer, may
be found on reference to the tables of any Life
Assurance Society. And there's this to be con-
sidered, that no man ever rose to eminence, or at-
tained mental -mltivation by punching dough
sixtt e i hours di ily.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
That Veteran.
“What! must the line stretch out to the crack of
doom?"
“ At the police court, on Saturday, William
Hutton, an old man over eighty years of age, was
brought up on suspicion of having, on the pre-
vious day, burnt down an outhouse. . . . It is
Stated that Hutton is an old soldier, having served
under Sir John Moore in the Peninsula, and the
Duke of Wellington at Waterloo, and received
wounds there; he otates, also, that he has been
fired at by bushrangers in the colonies.”— Godl-
bdrn Herald.
We know the type of this undying race, that
From out of this poor land will never cease;
We know the grimy, beer-besotted face that
Once more comes, Banqiio-like, upon our peace.
We've met him oft, and, when we haven’t met him.
We’ve read about him in the country press.
Whore, when we’ve almost managed to forget him,
He rises in his deathless hidcousness.
We met him shepherding on far-off stations
In salt-bush wastes, and stood him many quids
While marking in amaze his wild narrations
Of how ho battled at the Pyramids;
And, though within his eyes the tear-drop glis-
tened.
Or trickled down his ruby nose the while.
He told the tale, while any mortal listened,
With broken voice, of Nelson and the Nile.
We’ve seen the man, who, under Moore, had wona
Great name, at Hay interred; but many moons
Boiled by, and this same hero of Corunna
Was killed by falling down a shaft at Clunes.
He rose again, though—Death could not suppress
him —
And died of ague, on a Queensland rush,
For which we said with fervent heart, God bless
him;’’ , . , ,
’Twaa not to bo, though—he had too much push,
And bobbed up calmly; but a short time after,
From Stawell, there came news that seemed
divine.
And filled us with a keen internal laughter.
’Twas this; a “ cave ” had happened in a mine,
There came a sound that all the town thought
thunder, , ,
And, shortly after, it was widely known
That the last Corunna veteran lay under
Ton thousand cubic yards of earth and stone.
It didn’t meet the case, though; after all, he
Worked out of there, and soon our soul was filled
With a new Joy, half-tinged with melancholy,
To learn the tough old stager had been killed
By eating damper on a free selection
Where ne was ringbarking-but, as of yore,
He wouldn’t wait the general Resurrection,
Nor set his foot upon the Golden Shore.
But such laborious “ risings " seemed to rile him,
He thought they made his trouble too d—d
cheap;
So next, in the Benevolent Asylum,
He died, and wasn’t burled quite so deep.
To kick the mould off here was simply pastime.
And, as he strolled once more adown the street.
He mused unto himself, “It’s not the last time
They’ll plant the hero of Sir John’s retreat.”
Then he lay low for many months, and fairer
And sweeter seemed this life to us and ours;
The golden days fled by without a care or
A cloud, and all our ways grew clogged with
flowers. .. .
Of the last veteran never came a hint or
A sign that he would die, until one day
This story reached us, like a blast of winter,
And wrecked our hopes and left us to dismay:
•Twas In the Bddgkroo Free Press wo saw it,
And we’ll remember till our latest breath
The sudden shuddering of frigid awe it
Shot through us—this strange tale of eager
death;—
“ Last week, an aged warrior, whose story
Began with Wellington at Waterloo,
At which great field he won a lasting glory,
Passed in his cheques and slithered up the flue.
“ Ho had been hut-keeping at Narramakka
For Ryan’s shepherds, and ’twas noticed that
For several days he had eschewed tobacco,
And, Tuesday evening last, when Gummy Pat
Came round he found him hanging from a plum-
In thefold orchard that lies round about—
In one cold hand he clutched the Down and Gom-
TREB —
The cause of suicide is not found out /"
'Twas no great matter much, though, what the
cause was,
Th’ effect was trifling, for it seems the space
Just rather wide between Death’s yawning Jaws
So vet - ran slid with easy grace.
And lived a while in much distress at Nelson,
Now Zealand, where, from age and want, he
It didn’t suit, though—he had something else on,
And couldn’t rest in Heaven if he tried.
He tried another dodge, and gave up dying
Just for experiment, and sought instead,
By holding to « steadfast course of lying,
To win admireis erqo, beer and bread.
Another failure, for the population
Would listen to his deeds, but quite refuse
To let its patriotic admiration
Solidify into a single booze.
And then bo died again. At Carpentaria
The natives salted him for winter use:
When wo hoard this we cried, ‘Old man, well
swear you , , .
Are euchred now-this time they’ve cooked your
goose.”
’Tis vain such fond delusive hopes to cherish,
For here he is again-it must be he;
He was the last, such heroes cannot perish,
And we are faint, and know not where to flee I
Arrested on suspicion ? Aye! wc know him—
Another midnight merciless device
To drag him to the light again, and show him
To us, who turn away our aching eyes.
Shot at by bushrangers ? We smile I Their rifles
» As well might the intrenchant air impress,”
Such wounds as they can deal to him are trifles
To what he deals us through the country Press.
The Salvation Embrace.
Thus Labouchore, in Truth:— “What is
the ‘ Salvation Embrace ?’ I road in the Midland
Echo that David Withers, of Leamington, has run
away with Kate Key, a girl of seventeen. Withers
was the standard-bearer in’ the 94th corps of the
Salvation Army, and Kate was a private. No
familiarity had been noticed by the wife of
Withers beyond what is know as the Salvation
Embrace.’ ” To him, The Bulletin
Ask us something easy, Labby, t
We can only say Quien bane ?
For, ttll now, we’ve walked not in the Ways of
Grace;
But, In future, by means fair or
Foul, we’ll be a Standard-bearer,
And qualify ourselves for the Embrace.
Both your question, and what’s under
It, excites our special wonder;
Lot us look up the details ot this sad case
Though 'raong minnows you re a Triton,
Lab., your par. don’t throw much light OU
The peculiarities of the Embrace.
This is all we can arrive at:
Katie Key was a full private
In the corps that David led from place to place,
But, between them, David’s missus
Saw no sign of love or kissrs—
Nothing stronger than the average Embrace.
But the Standard-bearer, David,
Katie Key’s high charms enslaved,
And he katikeysed his heart, which, in this case,
The above shows a hat with full crown. The brim,
which is turned up about three-sixths of an inch becomes
narrower towards the hack, and is joined to the full grey
velvet crown, laid in a broad double going over the edge
of the brim pleat. A bias stripe of grey velvet trimmed
three times with steel braid, hides the place where the
crown and edge are joined, he Tedge of the hat is trim-
med with a cross-cut stripe of pleated grey velvet. A
steel agraffe holds two long shaded feathers.
Paid, “ Kv’n if you’re not forgiven,
You will have one Key of Heaven —
Such a chance as this ’tls wisest to Embrace.
So, before he was older,
He sought Katie out and told her
(So we guess, at least) how lovely was her face—
That, with her, he’d face Damnation
Rather than, without, Salvation—
Yet wound up with the Salvationist Embrace.
This robe with the short dra-
pery is made of ihe fashionable
apricot-coloured silk crape. A
particularly pretty effect is given
by the trimming, which is of
dark claret velvet and reddish
yellow lace. The skirt front is
hidden by two kilted flounces,
and the full front drapery is put
on a little to one side. Over the
hips the basque bodice, closed at
the side, is curved out grace-
fully. Lengths rf wire support
the standing collar made of
double velvet. Short sleeves and
bows of ribbon velvet.
So this Kate she ups and slithers
Witherstandard-bearer, Withers,
And, with hors. Withers’ soul recedes from Grace;
Withershe has gone’s not yet. known.
But (our scolhng way) we’ll b -t noou
Of the Ninety-Fourth now practice thj luubrace.
(Well, we’ll simply say, old Labby,
When we’ve joined, we’ll not turn shabby,
Or Conservative, as sometimes os the ease;
But, as soon as we are able,
We’ll send you all tips by cable
That are needful for this separate Embrace.
The long drapery shown in the second figure is
caught up with roses over a trained skirt, trimmed
with a triple box-pleat » uohe and blonde lace, fall-
ing over thi »-e small kiltings. The drapery is first
arranged vei v full over the plain tulle skirt, and
then covered l ightly with silver tulle—a new mater-
ial with silver threads knotted in to the foundation—
because in this manner the toilette has a more dia-
phanous appearance. Silver tulle gives also the
berthe trimming of the peaked satin bodice, laced
behind. Feather tips and flowers appear in the hair
and on the shoulders of the figure before us.
