

I1Q&4 &js.<3L ’WIIfcTTEE. ISS4=.
non hi * son,
■UUTVEESAXi X=KOTriI3EiX3S.
A T ■ A_CHE
l ONLY.
In every one of onr
THIBTT-SII2: ZDX33?.A.X3'T2v'£:E3iTTS
WE HAVE BEEN
FOB, THE AUTUMN AND WINTER TRADE.
!MIY HORDERN AND SONS
*Uce emporium, haymarket, only.
p
s
Hundred Cases of CHOICE and SEASONABLE GOODS.
a Nti
Bankets ! BLANKETS 1 BLANKETS I for which the Palace Emporium is justly celebrated.
Mantles MANTLES, MANTLES. The Latest Parisian Eashions, in Terv great variety.
„ DRESSES, DRESSES, DRESSES. New Patterns. New Materials. Styles.
CLOTHING, CLOTHING, CLOTHING. The Best Cut. The Best Made. Ihe Best Wear.
BOOTS, BOOTS, BOOTS. Acknowledged to he the Best and Cheapest in the colony.
ice nt Assortment of everything Hovel, Beautiful, and Useful, carefully collected from all the
markets of the world.
j markets oi me worm.
HORDERN AND SONS,
k Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
providers. universal providers.
The Bulletin New Series


SPLENDID DISPLAY OF BOOTS AND SHOES.
trSjs
Si
BO
ws
I F ■-
UL™&J
mw4
Miiif ■
mm.
CITY
I
U
PA LAC
HUNTER.
mmn
Branches:— Rundle-st., Adelaide, S.A.; Launceston, Tasmania; Hunter-st., Newcastle; Auburn-st., Gouiburn. Wholesale Stores: 57 York-sj- Sydney.
Man llfa
JBBS, BRIGHT & GO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
\ ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON—Head Office : HONGKONG
J. C. Goatling- and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsboroug-h—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines-,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &e.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M'Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &c.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meter?.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &e.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston-Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh-Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux-Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales. Scott and Mullaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hineks.
MP INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING- STREET, SYDNEY.
:
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramwav
Superior Accommodation for families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class WinesamiSmvna
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Manders and Co.’s telfgrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up. imegrnms
San Francisco Palace of Art,
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, careful! ’
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
IMPORTER OE WINES &
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that he has j ust cODIP
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle ® e P a I«
I A Sf^J
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines aC “ deß t)J' f
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore c 0” er ;t* sl
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to 111
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to h* ol '
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle.
S cl
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. ..66
Hennessy’s V.O. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) .... 66
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale .. " 5 a
Fine Old Pale, bottled by P. R. L. .. 5 6
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) 5 0
Martell’s Blue Label (*) .. .. "50
F la , s , k ® , •• 2s 3d and 2 6
Halt-flasks 16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per' impe-
rial quart .. .. .. .. 6s and 5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***)
Marteli’s Very Old ***
Martell’s Old
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart
Flasks
6s and
2s 6d and
6 6
6 6
4 0
6 0
2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good 2
Better 2
Still Better "3
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart 6s and 6
No. 2, „ 4
no. 3, „ ” .. 4
, No. 4, „ „ 3s and 3
Flasks Is 0d and 2
JAMAICA RUM.
PALE.
Yery Finest . 4 0
Red Heart .14 6
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart .. .50
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s6dand 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on hand.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy
Etbamogah, red ..
„ Muscat
„ Reisflng .
Fallon’s Shiraz ..
i „ „
quarts 2 6
~ 2 6
2 6
2 6
2 6
1 6
.. pints
40-year old, GilbeyS , .:
Celebrated Four Diamond o l al
Quality—No. 1 (very supe llu
No. ***** grape "
**** 9 t * *'
No! *** „ "
No.* ”
Draught Port Wine, per I mpel
drf)
40-year old, Gilbey’s
V ery Finest Amontillado
Pine Amontillado ••• A qjjei'”
Celebrated Four Diamond p
Common Sherry
Draught Sherry Wine, P er IISP
BRITI^
James Heddle’s Ginger
Orange Wine 'rcfC?'
IRISH
Jameson’s ***
4^
P,
Old Dublin Whisky (***)JP° tt
Kinahan’s unrivalled L \‘ r ",
Thorne’s Old Irish WbisW ■ _
Jameson’s ••• ",
DunviOe’s •••
Kinahan’s Draught, per
Jameson’s „
Flasks
SCOTCH
Walker’s 7-year old, in 1311
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland...
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet A' r j
Glenlivet Whisky, per I* 0 ?
Flasks
Blue BeH or Yellow Seal £.f
Celebrated Key Brand, (Jj
bottle containing m° r ,
Flasks Key Gin ...
Wedding and Picnic Partiesi supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best
allowed lor. Cases of 'v ines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, an®
Station or any wharf in the city, or any c'ountr7stati'onrFree J
P. R. LARKIN’S CASE OE ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS—On receiP*', -ra
g-enume articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a
% SKS & »nv 1 guart WHISKY,_ 1 Quart
2 Quarts PALE BRANDY,
The articles contained in P. R
given perfect
Orders payable
5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SU?’
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
contained in I. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of 1
satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, P 1 /
e at the Haymarket Post Office. JR
J
Kindly Note the A ddress—
P■ A LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit M
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket) “


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 52.—New Series
SATURDAY, MAY 10, 1884.
Prioe —6d.
Bastard Monroeism.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MAY 10, 1884.
The perfectly absurd way in which the
Government of Victoria—supported as well
by the Australasian sentiment of the baser
and more foolishly unthinking kind, as by
that so blatantly expressed by British jingo
journalism—is seeking to apply a sort o f
bastard Monroeism in Polynesia, would b e
amusing enough to watch were it not so
patently fraught with consequences of an
exceedingly mischievous and dangerous
character. We use the expression “bastard
MONROEisaf” for this reason: the doctrine
of James Monroe was a sensible, a sober, a
feasible doctrine. It was promulgated by
the head of a State that had succeeded in
consolidating its own possessions by the
purchase from France of the great tract of
Louisiana and acquisition (by cession from
Spain) of the peninsula of Florida, and was
rejoicing in the glorious spectacle of its
southern sister States throwing off the in.
tolerable yoke of Spanish despotism, and
introducing the garb of republican freedom.
At such a time, and under such condition g
as those connected with the establishment
of republicanism in American territories
that had been wrested from tyranny, there
was nothing inconsistent, nothing savouring
of “spread-eagle-ism,” in the President of
the elder American Republic promulgating,
as it were officially, the sentiment of
“ Americafor the Americans,” and publicly
advancing the reasonable doctrine that no
European power has any right whatsoever
to interfere in the affairs of continental
America, and that the introduction of the
old world political systems to any part
thereof would be dangerous to the welfare
of the United States. “ America for the
Americans,” as employed by Monroe, was a
sentiment in no way implying a jealous ex-
clusion of European immigration; it simply
was meant by him to affirm a deliberate
resolution to keep clear off the baneful influ.
ences and disastrous consequences of the
application of monarchical and aristocratic
principles, and, as so employed, was surely
the simple, honest expression of an intrinsi-
cally healthy and patriotic republicanism
beginning to be conscious and proud of its
power.
* 9 •
Australia for the Australians, as a poli-
tical expression is equally healthy and
patriotic, so long as it covers no more than
the idea, analogous to that of Monroe’s, that
in their own Continent Australians are in
duty bound to resent to their uttermost and
if need be to die to maintain the doctrine
that no foreign power possesses any right
whatsoever to interfere in their affairs, and
that the introduction into any part thereof
of any institution savoring of the old worlds
political systems, with their provisions for
privileged castes, would be dangerous to the
welfare of the Australian People. To say
this wculd not be to advocate and preach
anything resembling “spread-eagleism.”
But that sentiment which the insane jingos
of Australia, egged on by the still insaner
jingos of the mother country, are advocating
and preching ad nauseam, is “ spread-
eagleism” of a monstrous type. With all
the greediness and snappishness of the pro-
verbial dog in the manger, Australia (as
represented by the before mentioned insane
jingos) clamours for the wholesale annexa-
tion of the Polynesian Archipelago, in (her
interests, and makes that demand with work
undone lying to her hand to do. With
population and resources not yet adequate
to the task of properly subduing and set-
tling the lands on even the foreshores of he/-
own proper area, Australia (represented by
the Service stamp of politician) wildly shrieks
for more territory, in the interests of the
commercial missionary.
• • i
Let it be granted, as we do most freely,
that it would be most objectionable to have
this continent inundated with French recidi-
vists, and that Australian politicians are
perfectly in the right in strenuously en-
deavouring to prevent such rascality from
contaminating their country, yet what but
absolutely fatuous unreason can there be in
the method now being pursued by Service
and his following in the hope of con-
vincing a great Power like the French Re-
public that her Polynesian convict system
must be put down,; because they hold that it
is fraught with moral danger to Australasia;?
Had a different tone than that of insulting
Podsnappery been taken by the Service
crowd; had the economio mistake of convict
transportation been logically and courte-
ously pointed out to the French Govern-
ment—and Australian evidence as to trans-
portation being an economic mistake is very
convincing when properly stated—we firmly
believe that Franoe would have been dis_
posed to listen—to reason. But, no! either
a tone of ridiculous bluster, or one of im-
pertinent advice (such as Murray Smith’s
cool suggestion to shunt all the recidivists
off to Cayenne, and so save Australian, at
the expense of American and West Indian,
morals) has been adopted, leaving to France
scarce any option but to continue in her
course— a oourse, by the bye, she has a per-
feet right to adopt without consulting any-
body—if only to preserve her self-respect.
Ferry is undoubtedly correct in his asser-
fion that the recidivist question is one of
purely domestic policy, as in deprecating
unofficial discussion on the subject; he
is also to be commended for the calm and
equable spirit he has all along maintained*
in the face of the storm of yelping snarls
which British-cum-Australian Jingoism has
kicked up about the matter. If the boot
were on the other leg, now, and were Eng-
land about to despatch, or having des-
patched, a gang of convicts to Barbados, to
be insulted by the expression of a deter-
mination on the part of the United States
to maintain a cordon round that island lest
escapees of some of the British rascaldom
should contaminate Yankee morals, O ye
gods, what a hubbub would Jingoism then
raise about insult to the glorious flag that
had braved, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera ! O
how true, how very, very true, it is that—
Of all the sarse one can call to mind
England does make the most unpleasant kind:
It’s you’re the sinner oilers, she’s the saint;
Wat’s good’s all English, all that isn’t aint.
This most objectionable spirit, when dis-
played by the old country, is sometimes
only ridiculous; when, however, it is dis.
played by a young British colony, or a
group of young British colonies (vir-
tually independent) it is always mischievious
as well as ridiculous- These Australian
colonies need a blending of races in their
populations, in order to prevent a most Phi-
listinic puritanism from becoming rampant.
For them to quarrel with republican France
(with whom it would be well were their
relations exceeding intimate) is most un-
wise. Of course the British Conservatism,
that is mortally offended at the prodigious
prosperity of Republican France, jumps
with avidity at any pretext for a quarrel with
her. And in what the British Conservative
does he has, unfortunately, only too many
silly imitators in Australia—henoe the dis-
graceful way in which the recidivist question
is being discussed. It is obvious to any un-
prejudiced mind that the ohanoes of future
peace in the vast Pacific archipelago would
really be better were Great Britain not to
possess a preponderating influence. In the
island groups not as yet appropriated by aray
of the civilized Powers the establishment of
free colonies under international protection
would be by far the most advantageous ar-
arrangement. Any attempt by Great Britain
at wholesale Polynesian annexation must in-
evitably lead to trouble with France and
Germany, if not with the United States,
with Spain, and with the Netherlands as well.
The true pacific policy in the Paoiflo is an
international policy—the wise blending, not
the mad collision, of interests.
• ■ *
The Australasian politicians who are mak-
ing such a monstrous hubbub over the
recidivist question profess an exceeding
loyalty to England, yet are unable to see
that their aotion is direotly calculated, if not
absolutely to imperil, at least to seriously
prejudice the true interests of the empire.
But abject loyalty is invariably prejudicial
to its object. The task set to Australians is
to colonise Australia—a task of surpassing
magnitude and dignity, one, also, that de-
mands untiring exertion and exclusive
devotion. This work lies wholly at home
within the boundaries of the Australian Con-
tinent, not much more than the mere fringe
of which has as yet been settled. Austra-
lians have the means at their oontrol to
keep out of their Continent whom they do
not choose to have amongst them. That
power should suffice them —unless, indeed,
in their dealings with Franoe (as the owner
of a neighbour settlement) they can con-
vince that truly economio country that
transportation is not economio, as we be-
lieve could easily be done, since French
statesmen are eminently practical, while
Australian experience on the point is so
considerable.
* * *
Escaped recidivists do cause us some
trouble and expense: yet they hardly ever
succeed? in eluding our detection. They
are almost invariably promptly secured.
With regard, however, to British reddi/viste,
the Australian colonies that maintain immi-
gration services are not so particular. No
precautions, or next to none, are taken
against our ewn proper “ habitual criminal”
classes being recruited now and again from
the “old country.” Were a little of the
violent energy that is being devoted to a
trouble which beoause, when it does ocour,
is direct and palpable, and so easily grappled
with, expended upon the indireot and less
palpable, but still quite as serious, trouble
that lurks in our very oarelessly adminis-
tered immigration service, much good would
be the result. Whereas, from the devotion
of frenzied political bigotry to wickedly
essaying to make a casus belli- out of a diffi-
culty easily removable by the exercise of a
little savoir faire. a little oourtesy, and a
little mutual good will, harm must inevit-
ably be the oonsequence—unless by good
luck the influence of the democratic party
should prevail, to the relegation of the idiotic
advocates of misohievous “spread-eagleism
to a back seat—a consummation most de-
voutly to be wished.
Colonial Titles.
Crudely and ill-advisedly formulated, and
extravagantly and illogically maintained,
Mr. Buchanan’s resolutions condemnatory
of tUe practice of the English Govewinaeut


J3UBLIC NOTICE
l
i, a m
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severs
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Burners will find this brand
Australian con-
PURE, MELLOW, ana ’THOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Un great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for it*
quality. 18
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
vnmyjr N JiSSP - WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BORtJ WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRIANBORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO., Distillers. Belfast,
WHISKY 8 " * owners of BRIAN BORU
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & 00.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 35 Plinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfeli-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Coughs and Colds.
fTIHE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
_L and taken at bed-time.
W PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
«S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
G. W. ROBERTS’
Single Settle lijiikit,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
Sd.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
THA MOST WHOLESOME OF ATiTj Bkvhraghs.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
GLYNELIBH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, la. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
28. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
Ss. ftd. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street, Sydney.
of conferring titles upon any of the people
of this country, met at the hands of the
Legislative Assembly the fate that it richly
deserved. With that characteristic obliquity
of mental vision which mars all prospect of
his ever attaining to political usefulness,
Mr. Buchanan left wholly untouched the
one point in connection with the praotice
he assailed which can logically be regarded
jis vulnerable, so long as the oolony of New
South Wales (however democratic its social
and political institutions may be) remains a
dependency of monarchical Great Britain,
However true in the abstract may be the
bald proposition that the practice of con-
ferring aristocratio titles and distinctions,
peerages, baronetcies, knighthoods, com-
panionships of illustrious Orders and what
not, is a ridiculous custom, unworthy
of and dishonouring to real manliness
and essential worth, it is, so far at least as
Great Britain is concerned, an imperial
practice the abolition or reform of which is
not to be effected by the action of a single
dependency. So long as the colony of New
South Wales is part and parcel of the British
Empire, so long will the people of New
South Wales naturally and reasonably ex-
pect to be treated upon a perfect social and
political equality with the people of the
mother country. Even persons who them-
selves disdain titles, and regard with dis-
favour the practice of conferring them, will
yet hardly go the extreme length of urging
the immediate abrogation of its application
in New South Wales, lest by sc doing they
should seem to sanction the curtailment of
what is regarded as a sort of right common
to every British subject—the right of being
selected a recipient of the Sovereign’s special
favour. The vulnerable point in the prao-
tice of conferring titles, so far as New South
Wales colonists are concerned, lies in the
fact that, as administered, it is unconstitu-
tional. The essential element of responsi-
bility is wholly lacking. Titular distinctions
have been conferred upon New South Wales
colonists, as it were, behind the backs of the
Queen’s responsible Ministers in and for the
colony of New South Wales. Here, there-
fore, is the weak point of the prac'ice.
* * *
Sir George Grey, when Premier of New
Zealand, fully recognised that this was the
weak point of the practice in question : and
most ably he exposed it in a letter (dated
July, 1879) to Sir M. Hicks-Beach, the then
Secretary of State for the Colonies. In this
letter (written with special reference to the
circumstanoes under which Sir E. Stafford
and Sir W. Fox, leading members of the
Opposition, had obtained knighthoods) he
observes : “ The honour conferred on him
(Fox) —knighthood—is one known to the
Constitution. It emanated from the
proper source—the Crown, tne foun-
tain of Honour. But the recognised rule
is that such honours are only conferred
by the Crown upon proper, responsible ad-
vice. . . In the present case, no such re-
sponsible advice was really tendered. The
Crown has within New Zealand, under its
Constitution, recognised responsible ad-
visers. Their advice was never sought. . .
At the time, Sir W. Fox was in violent oppo-
sition, and making public communications
whichwere embarrassing to the Government,
with the native race. The action of the,
Crown, therefore, had the aspect of a party
movement of an embarrassing nature. . .
In the case of any colony where a represen-
tative Constitution exists, in reference to
services rendered in such colony in regard
to its internal management or its internal
political affairs, the Crown cannot (1 respect-
fully believe) constitutionally bestow such
honours without the advice of Ministers
who are responsible to the people of that
colony. The Secretary of State is not so in
any way whatever. Nor can (I believe)
any Minister of the Crown in England con-
stitutionally correspond with members of
the Opposition, or with any other person in
this colony, regarding rewards for political
services rendered to the colony and in rela-
tion to its internal government, otherwise
than through its responsible Ministers. If
such claims be maintained by the Secretary
of State, true responsible Government in the
colony becomes impossible.”
• m m
Yes, in the absence of the element of con-
stitutional responsibility, the essential ele-
ment of political liberty, lies the vulnerable
point of the practice in question. Attack
this point, or rather insist upon the reform
of the practice in this vital particular, and
then as the healthy democratic spirit de-
velopes itself in New South Wales more and
more, the abrogation of the obnoxious
oustomwill become assured by a consistent,
gradual process; since, go soon as the Queen’s
Ministers in and for New South Wales
represent a prevailiD g sentiment that titles
and distinctions are inconsistent with the
spirit of our demo<jratio institutions, no
recommendations to have them conferred
will be made to the Fountain of Honour.”
* * m
There is another; consideration, which
seems to have esc aped Sir George Grey’s
notice, just as it r'ud Mr. Buchanan’s. It is
this: while the pi.notice of conferring titles
and distinctions upon the colonists of New
South Wales can be conducted without
either the sanction or the knowledge of Her
Majesty’s respousiblo Migieteis in and lor
New South Wales, the British Government,
whose home interests are not unfrequently
diametrically antagonistic to the home
interests of this colony, has it in its power to
dangle stars and ribands and patents before
the eyes of our local politicians, in order to
seduce them by such glittering gewgaws
into betraying their country. How insidi-
ously effective such methods of seduction
can be, modern British history, unfortu-
nately for the honour and probity
of her statesmen, affords only too many
illustrations. The legislative union of
Great Britain and Ireland was notori-
ously carried by wholesale corruption
and fraud, and the worst form which
that monstrous corruption assumed was the
utterly shameless way in which honours (?)
were showered upon the utterly shameless
orew of Boyles, Handcocks, Hutchisons
and Loft dses, the traitorous “ undertakers ”
who bartered the liberties of their country
for peerages and place. It is not difficult to
imagine what would be the result if, as is
proposed by Sir Henry Parkes and other
turncoats from democratic principles, an
Australian Council were to sit in London.
The views of iuoh a Council would most
assuredly soon grow distinctly tainted with
what its members might be pleased to de-
nominate “ imperialistic impressions,” but
which, in truth, would be English impres-
sions—impressions more or less biassed by
hopes of winning a “distinction” from
a crafty Secretary of State, the actual Foun-
tain of Honour!
• • •
Or even in the colony, where the counter-
vailing effect of popular Liberal opinion
might be expected to exist, Downing-streeb
upon a day of crisis and decision, when the
political liberties of this community hung
trembling in the balance, might be able by
following in the footsteps of Castuereagh
and Pitt, to seduce from the patriot ranks
a sufficiency of traitors to turn the scale in
favour of some accursed jingoistic measure
hostile to the cause of Freedom the wide
world over.
• • •
What the earnest Liberals of New South
Wales should first aim at is tbe reform of
the practice of conferring titles upon
colonists, on the strictly constitutional lines
laid down by Sir George Grey. The pro-
posed reform is one in the agitation for
which both those who consider the jjraotice
wrong and mischievous in the abstract, and
those who do not regard it with absolute
disfavour, can co-operate. It is a practical
proposal, whereas that of Mr. Buchanan
was not, under existing conditions. To talk
as that gentleman did of the absurdity of
titles to an Assembly in which sit dozens of
members who are personally itching for a
C.M.G.-ship, and scores of members who
have been taught to regard a title as
a legitimate object of ambition, was a
still greater absurdity. Whereap, there
is no reason whatever to doubt that
a Legislative Assembly, professedly ex-
tremely zealous for the strictest observance
o', the Constitutional doctrine of Responsi-
bility, might, without much difficulty, be
induoed to resolve that, in their deliberate
opinion, no title or distinction ought to be
conferred by the Crown upon any of the
people of this country except upon the
recommendation of the responsible Minister
of the Sovereign in and for the colony of
New South Wales. Unless, indeed, the local
Legislature does adopt and firmly maintain
aresolution of that kind, responsible Govern-
ment in New South Wales will run a great
chance of degenerating into a farce.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Unemployed.
There are over two thousand men out of
work in Sydney at the present time. Their feel-
ings are naturally neither philosophically nor
religiously resigned. They are bitter against the
Government and the condition of things generally.
But the fault does not lie at the doors of the
Government. The depression is simply an ebb of
enterprise. There will be a full tide in due course.
We sympathise with the majority of these men.
There is a minority among them for which we
have no sympathy. You will understand what we
mean when we tell you that one day last week,
when there was a large meeting of the unemployed
at the Hyde Park gates, and whiie one of the
speakers was giving a very graphic, if rather
gruesome, description of starvation (which he
said was .staring his hearers in the face), a man
drove up in a buggy and offered as many
men as chose to take it work at five shillings
a day—which they unanimously refused. Now,
five shillings a day is not princely pay, but the
men who refused it must be fond either of starving
or of lying. And we don’t think they are fond of
starving. Among the unemployed there are a
great many new arrivals. These labour under a
hallucination which they will do well to get rid of
as soon as possible. It Is that they are entitled to
a certain rate of wages, and that those who offer
them less are trying to cheat them. Consequently
they hang on from day to day, and grumble in
groups, and grow seedier and seedier rather than
accept work at what they consider an unfair price.
Now, there is no denying that the pamphlets about
the colonies they have seen before coming out
give an account of the current rates of wages paid
for various kinds of labour. But it must be
remembered that these rates represent what
is paid to old hands—men who have lived
and worked for some time in the Colonies. A new
arrival anywhere never does, and never will, get
paid as much as the tried workman whose abilities
are known. It is necessary to settle down and
assimilate with the new order of things before
asking to be raised to the same level as men who
have paid for their experience. Men who are any
good to this country will look the situation in the
face and take what work they can get till better
times come, and they in their turn, instead of
asking for employment, can command it. But the
other kind of men, who will not work unless they
get the pay they want, are of no good to us unless
we could prevail on Bishop Barry to make par-
sons of them.
It is really extraordinary how the evil passions
roused by war blind people to disgraceful acts,
perpetrated in the name of their own nation —acts
which, if committed by the enemy, or in the name
of any foreign power, they would instantly de-
nounce with indignation as barbarous and de-
grading. In looking through our flies of the
principal London weeklies just received, we are
struck by the general absence of comment
on the proclamation, by General Gbaiiam and
Admiral Hewett, of a reward to anyone
who would assassinate Osman Digna. Vanity
Fair is the only weekly in which we have
found so much as a reference to the matter. It is
fair to say, however, that Vanity Faib seems to
appreciate the moral iniquity of the incident. Its
comments are of the briefest—thus: “The Gov-
ernment goes on from bad to worse. TheJMilitary
Commander in Egypt actually issued a proclama-
tion setting a price on the head of Osman Dignai
More than a year ago we had to comment on the
similarity between the Dublin Invincibles and
those of Alexandria. Had not the Government at
home compelled the withdrawal of the infamous
proclamation, the identity of the two would have
been complete, and the name of the good-
natured, but careless Lord Granville would
have been in the face of all Europe dis-
played as on a par with that of Joe Brady.”
It will be an evil day for Old England when its
journalists with one consent abstain from anim-
adverting on acts which tend to stain its annals
and lower the manliness of the national sentiment.
The thing was a bitter disgrace; and even here in
Australia there was scarcely one journal besides
our own which showed its preference for principle
over maudlin and unreasoning national vanity, by
commenting on the affair with downright em-
phasis. The Ec,HO deprecated the proclamation,
indeed, but only on the grounds that it might be
awkward were the Mahdi to retaliate by setting a
price on the head of General Gordon I And the
Echo is a serious and moral paper.
The Rates or Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 245.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advanoe.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony mi be sent, if more convenient.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume ccmnot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“A.J. S. ” (Albert Park, S. Melbourne):
Thanks. You are right. Some Bulletin men
have not only seen Chatham, but broke out of
Barracks there and up-ended the sentry many a
wild night ...“G.W.”: We can’t please everybody:
we couldn’t if we would, and we wouldn’t if we
could. There are people all the world over who
worship anything done by a Royal hand. These
are the .people who lie right across the pathway
offprogresß. They discover literary excellence in
the twaddle penned by those in high places. They
found out that the Duke of Edinburgh was a Paga-
nini and Leopold a philosopher... “ L.G.” (Albury):
May find space—won’t be sure. Flows evenly, but
rather long and scarcely pungent enough. Try
again, and condense....“J.D.A.”: Good. Take a
local subject, if possible, to assure us of originality.
“Madge ”: Intrinsically good, but not adapted
for The Bulletin. .. . “ R. 8.” (Wyong Creek): We
like to encourage you, because, although you are
ignorant (judging by your writing and syntax),
still you are not an ass. Your poetry has the true
ring, but it is entirely too rough and crude for
The Bulletin. Our advice is: study, and we may
iind room for you by-and-bye. . .“Democritus
Cornstalk”: Cannot use “Lance Lenton”:
Rhyme accepted Hell not adapted “Lord
Protector ”: Cannot use it. Daren’t. Among the
unemployed in Sydney just now, there are some
fellows who would stick at nothing, and if they
saw that last verse of yours—
“ And he’s thinking how he can attach
A button to his slop-made pants,
While he swears to himself that he’d take a wife
Could he get her minus cousins and aunts ”
among our “poetry.” they’d be down here with a
ton of dynamite, and shift us into the country...
“J. M’Maugh”: Paper did not come “Nilen-
spiegel” (Fiji): Cruel one. Why doubt the origi-
nality of one of our little jokes, and then supply
us with a “ funny, par.” that was hoary before
Moses wandered down the mountain side with the
tables of stone? Why, dear boy, that item of yours
was the first that was read off the Moabite stone.
“Onioni” (Sutton Forest) : Have just found
your MS. Will read it first chance... “Argoon”:
Thanks for item—“H.G.” (North Shore): You
forgot to give us particulars “Boaz” (N.C.):
Much obliged....“R. McL.”: You have been too
carefully vague altogether. To describe a party,
without saying where it was given and by whom,
would be ridiculous.
The stoppage of the Oriental Bank set the
city a-buzzing on Saturday and Monday. The
general feeling in Sydney seems to be thankful-
ness that the ease ■wasn’t worse. There is a general
hope that the creditors of the Bank will be paid in
full, and a decided expectation that they will
recover at least a large proportion of their claims.
In Sydney, the personal popularity of the manager,
Mr. Balfour, has helped to smooth matters, and, in
lieu of an angry crowd hammering at doors and
breaking windows, his trouble has been interrup-
tion to the rush of work which the catastrophe at
the Bank thrust upon its officers, by customers,
even including some who have heavy deposits,
calling to express their sympathy and good will,
quite as much as to satisfy their anxiety as to
prospects of recoupment.


FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
A new Commercial Bank started in Sydney
—the C. B. of Australia (whose headquarters are
in Victoria). We shan’t be in the least degree sur-
prised to hear of little swindles being perpetrated by
the spurious cheque gentry in the way of drawing
by accident (premeditated) on the new Commercial
Bank and then, when confronted wit i the ominous
words’* no account,” declaring that ’pon honour
it was the other Commercial Bank, you know, and
bo on Some days back the last train from Parra-
matta to Sydney, ran the distance between
Parramatta and Granville on the wrong line of
rails. Driver and firemen thereof dismissed.
Surely other officials must have been equally or
more to blame Executive of the Agri. Soc.
N.S.W. supplemented by election last week of
following eight men:—President, Sir J. Robertson ;
vice-presidents, J. Lackey, and Sir P. Jennings ;
members of the council, Yeo, A. Towd, Tom
Cadell, J. de V. Lamb, and James Hill The great
number of dogs employed in rabbiting likely to
Srove the very mischief to the lambs Nowra’s
ouncil Clerk suspended for neglect The “Vag-
Mr. Stuart has expressed his determination to reform the Permanent Porce. He should mako them
kick the bucket.
abond” calls the son of Lord Normanby, who is in
Australia “ Lord Phipps,” why ? we know not since
there’s no such person. Possibly he refers to that
(copy illegible here, E B.) Lord Henry Phipps.....
Says Carcoar Mary:— “When we are told that
30,000 sheep can be injured to the extent ot
£lO,OOO by dipping, we are aghast at what must
be the Jay Gouldian value of 30,000 uninjured
sheep.” Just so, dear Mary... .Gympie, firmly
convinced that hansom is as hansom does, yearns
for a cab. The Miner declares there is lots of
Work for one, and lashins of coin to pay for it—
Queen means to keep as a relic the telegram con-
veying to her the sympathy of the people of
Victoria re Leopold’s loss. That from Mayor
Hardie has gone to the waste paper basket.
Some lOOoz. of specimens found in the possession
of certain miners e iployed on the Wilmot mine,
One fellow committed. Says the local Miner:
“ That a considerable amount of nugget-stealing
goes on may be argued from the fact that some
llOOoz. of gold in excess of that contributed by the
claims find their way annually from Gympie to
the Mint.... Miss B. Whybrow, of Brighton, has no
fingers, but she pulled off a special certificate for
plain needlework at the late Melbourne Inter-
colonial Exhitstion ... Fine sample of bops grows
at Wolverton, near Pooncarie on the Darling....
Loch and Parkes sail for Australia at end of May.
Rosebery imputes to the Home Government
lack of sympathy with colonial requirements.
Home Secretary Harcourt says Rosebery romances.
Thus a Townsville scribe «nent the way that
lambing-down is carried on at Boulia (Q.): “One
man brought in a £3OO cheque from Warenda, and
his sole belongings in three weeks were a bottle of
brandy and an old blanket. Another contrived to
get through £5O in one night, and had only a head-
ache to show for it next morning. Judging from
appearances, 1t is better to be a publican in Boulia
than to be a shareholder in the Dav Dawn mine.”
Says Simon Slabbs, of Townsville: “A young
man who went over to Magnetic Island on the
occasion of the Town Band’s picnic on Easter
Monday, was up a tree fixing a rope for a ‘ swing,’
when the rope, or the tree, gave way. He came to
the ground precipitately, dislocating his collar-
bone and fracturing his arm. Coming back in the
Gympie, Capt. Clarke discovered him in the cabin
with his spare arm round a girl’s waist. Such is life ”
.. .The railway stockyards at Penrith cost £l5OO, and
were so ingeniously designed as to block the main
line, and, when cattle were being unloaded from
them, to prevent the approach of passsengers and
traffic to the staion. Little trifles of this kind do
not, however, affect the Goodchapian axiom that
our railway system is the best in the world. . At
Gundagai and Cootamundra, the Watsonian press-
men in new “shoots,” and lolly as grigs: set’em up
again, and damn the expense Knighthoods
spoken of for Service and Bray : the service
questionable, the bray unmistakable... The Visitor
of St. Paul’s College, Sydney (Primate Barry), ad-
dressed by warden and fellows Mutual admiration.
There is amine at Mount Hope, and a doctor
attached, towards whose screw monthly deductions
are made from the miners’ pay. Miner Spargo,
being a subscriber to the medical fund, declined
to pay the doctor, one Vanzetti, for drawing a
tooth. Vanzetti sued him, and recovered 7s. 6d.
The miners are now endeavouring to excogitate
where the advantage of stoppages for medical
attendance comes in An officer in the Customs,
in the receipt of £250 per annum, is assistant re-
gistrar of births, deaths, and marriages, and also
council clerk and valuator at Randwick. Whose
work is slummed ? that's the point — A memorial
to be put on the site of the Eureka Stockade, Bal-
larat The Victorian Shire Councils are trying to
get an Act passed prohibiting the importation of
any other matches than the “Safety" brand, with
a view to diminishing: bush fires. West Australia
passed such an Act, but it wouldn’t work, and was
repealed the following session M. M. Ryan, late
of St. Michael's School, Wagga, appointed assist-
ant prefect St. Aloysius's College, Riverview,
Sydney Dr. Gunson, of Adelaide, Knight of Bt.
Gregory, defunct.... Dr. Hughes, freethoughtist,
contemplates building a hall in Balmain A
storm-driven “ Mother Carey’s chicken ” landed in
the courtyard of a Newcastle hotel last week, in a
most precareyous condition. Unprecedented fact.
A new Oriental Bank proposed, to take over
the other’s liquid assets.
* v *
Parnell denounces the nationalisation of
land idea— A British force to attempt rescue of a
ship’s crew held to ransom by the chief of Acheen
(N W. Sumatra)—Oxford at last admits women to
the “ honour ” exams... Osman Digna threatens As-
souan— Graham owed his victory at Tamanieb
solely to the superiority of the British breech-
loaders. In physique, in morale, in the elements
of dashing soldiership, Tommy Atkins isn’t a
patch upon the Arab, neither are Tommy’s officers
so chivalrous as the Arab chiefs, who didn’t offer a
reward for their enemies’ heads Many of the
“ old ” regiments of the British Service are placing
their mess plate in the hands of trustees to prevent
its obsorption into (or spoliation by) the new terri-
torial system by which it is possible for a battalion
that, as an old “ numbered“ regiment, possessed a
handsome lot of plate, to And it “ whacked ” by
the other battalions of the territorial regiment of
which it is part, who had none, or next to none—
Khartoum completely isolated Osman Digna
getting blue-mouldy for want of another beating.
Childers won’t invite Australian colonies to nomi-
nate a delegate on Suez Canal Commission
Hayti rebels tortured to death.... Skipper Simp-
son, of Port Adelaide, who initiated running of
steam colliers between Newcastle and P. Adelaide,
died last week, aged 69 Abortive dynamite
explosioni n Dublin barracks on the 26th ult ...
There is no medical man on the Royal Commission
appointed to investigate the condition of the
dwellings of the London Poor Manitoba
threatens to secede from the Dominion if her
interests are not more studied Osman Digna
means another attack on Suakim. Granny calls
him the arch rebel. Why, Granny alone knows,
....Proclamations of the Mahdi to Indian Mahom-
medans seized in large quantities by Calcutta
policy. Cftpt&ia Conder, R.E-, io bis “Guide of
Islam” (Maddy means “guide”), says:—“The
Mahdi will not influence the Persian Moslems, and
it is extremely doubtful whether his pretensions
will excite any dangerous emotion among our
Indian Moslems. The Indian Moslems are more
keenly impressed with veneration for local deities
than with the apocalyptic expectations of the
Kohran literature. Their eyes are turned home-
wards rather than to the cradle of their faith, and
although so large a proportion of the Mecca pil-
frims are Indian, the Eastern Moslem is debarred
y difference of language, of custom, and of race
from any very intimate associations with the pil-
grims who come from Arab-speaking lands. The
fellah in Egypt and the Moslem sowar in our In-
dian army meet as strangers, with sentiments
respectively of fear ana of contempt, and
so do the various races who all profess
Islam meet together at Meooa At a
Baltimore sale of the effects of W. W. Clarke,
a hair from the head of Henry Olay brought 30
cents; a bit of the towel used in staunching the
blood from Abe Lincoln’s death-wound, 1 dol.
25 cents; and an autograph of Chief Justice John
Marshall, 55 cents—The State pipe of the Shah of
Persia cost £BO.OOO. The Persians may truly be said
to “paythe piper” onpublio “shivooß.”. ...Mrs.
Van Pelt, of New York, has had six pairs of twins
in succession. This is Pelting young Pelts at the
community, with a vengeance—Says Rev. R
Hibbs, M.A.: “ From personal observations
throughout Europe, I can affirm that there cannot
be found a nation whore honest poor people suffer
as they do in England?”... .Ireland is more than
half a million aores poorer in land under tillago,
and 1,000,000 head poorer in stock, than she was a
dozen years ago. This is poverty without the pro-
gress. ... All overhead telegraph wires are to be re-
moved from the streets of N.Y. When shall we
follow suit? English reporters have got into
some queer fixes while hunting up information of
late as to the terrible state of the London poor.
One caught the small-pox, another was garotted,
while a third was arrested undei the Vagrancy
Act for adopting the role of a beggarman. Such
are the sacrifices made by the enthusiastic
journalist.... Corner sites in Cheapside (London)
sell at rate of 2 millions sterling per acre. Cheap
side rather a misnomer The Queen has issued
an encyclical of thanks to those who have ex
pressed sympathy for her in her recent loss
Carl Bock, in his “ Temples and Elephants,” (a tour
through Upper Siam) tells us that one prince hq
j ipet bad bought 13301b5. of Holloways pills.


Personal
Items
Gayarre, the tenor, who, some predio'*
will be as famous as Mario, and who has taken the
musical ear of Paris, worked at the forge as a boy
and his fine voice attracted notice in the Parish
choir in a Spanish country town.
Robert Horniman, a much respected Sydney
pedagogue, presented last week with 365sovs. by
his old pupils. “It was Horniman who trained the
Dibbs to sum, and indoctrinated Sam Grilßth in
his propria quce maribus— which Sam, alas I occa-
sionally forgets.
A petition to the Queen, praying that Her
Majesty may be graciously pleased to restore
Baker Pasha to the British Army, has been
“lying” for signature at the office of the United
Service Gazette. Faugh I United Flunkies’
Gazette it should be named henceforth.
M‘Kinley, a smart lawyer, and brother of
“Punch” M‘Kinle.v, the Melbourne pressman,
made cock-sure of the Crown Proseeutorship,
vacated by the new Judge Casey, but the Attorney-
General, at the last moment, slipped in a son of
Johnstone, one of the proprietors of the Argus.
The press in Viotoria seems to drop in for all the
pudding.
The interesting lady whom, after swearing
to love, honour, and cleave to, Lord Euston is now
trying so hard to dishonour and get rid of, namely,
his wife, is a handsome blonde of about 40; always
well and expensively dressed, and fond of sport.
Only, since she knows of the Earl’s earnest desire
to shunt her, she is more careful of what kind of
sport than formerly.
6985 men and one woman are licensed to
carry pistols in New York. The license costs a
dollar, but is only granted on sufficient reason
being shown. Bankers, various mes-engers,
watchmen, telegraph operators, and firemen, are
the chief holders of licenses. The woman obtained
hers on showing that her house had been four
times raided by thieves.
“ I have not the gold of the D’Orleans. . .
lam poor, and I feel honoured to be poor.” Such
were the words of Prince Napoleon the other day
to a provincial delegation. A Royalist asks Plon-
Plon what he has done with the forty or fifty
millions that he received from the nation between
1853 and 1870; while Paul de Cassagnac intimates
that Prince Napoleon is ready to receive some of
the gold of the D’Orleans.
Miss Jennie Flood, daughter of the ’Frisco
millionaire, is engaged to a young English aristo
crat, Lord Beaumont. She Is 25, buxom, and has
£400,000 of her own. She loved a clerk in her
father’s bank, but he was packed off because ho
was poor. Then she was engaged to the son of
General Grant, but he, on the other hand, secedet
from her, as a prettier girl effected a change in his
plastic mind. So the wheel turns.
Henry John Tanored, Chancellor of the
University of New Zealand, died last week at
Christchurch, aged 68. He was one of the four
members of the first N.Z. Ministry (Bell-Sewell
under Responsible Government; subsequently he
was Secretary for Lands in the first Stafford Admi-
nistration, and a member without portfolio of the
Domett Cabinet. For the last twenty years he took
an active part in political affairs. He was a high-
Bpirited, warm-hearted, cultured gentleman.
A significant reminder of the “measure-
less march of time ” must surely have been given
to the fascinating Kate Vaughan when, a few
weoks back, her younger sister, Susie, “ made up’
as an old lady of sixty, at the new Novelty Theatre.
It isn’t nice for a “ possible ” duchess, like Kate, to
find that such a near relative has arrived at an
age when she can even play “ first old woman,”
with success. Kate ought to bring Colonel
'Wellesley up to the scratch before he fastens his
giddy affections to something younger.
“One of the Guards” writes to a London
paper “We are glad you oppose the return of
Valentine Baker. We do not want him. It is very
well for the Standard to say it has had hundreds
of letters from ladies (?) advocating his re-admis-
Bion into society; doubtless most of these ladies
only lament they were not in the train with him
when Miss Dickinson was, so as to be recipients of
the favours ho was so anxious to bestow.” This is
rough on the Prince of Wales’s friend. We don’t
catch any of the “under-current of a sob” in it
that Archie Forbes fancied he heard from the 10th
Hussars. And we may add, that the Standard
may have received hundreds of letters; but we
don’t think on? of them was from a lady.
Prince William, the eldest son of the
Crown Prince of Germany, appears to have some
of the amorous proclivities of bis grandfather, the
old Emperor—" his greatest fault,” says modern
society, after dilating upon his accomplishments
and natural abilities, “ is a pronounced suscepti-
bility to feminine blandishments.” But there’s
every excuse for the poor young Prince ; he's
only twenty-four, and (according to the same
estimable authority) “his wife is a person of too
much insignificance to exercise any restraint
upon his spirited nature ; even now she is neg-
lected by nim. Bhe is possessed of no charms
potent enough to attract or to retain him.” We
often reckon up our missus like that, till she closes
the discussion with a flat-iron.
The quarrel between Prince Frederick
Charles of Prussia and his wife has been patched
up; and the organs of the Throne are rejoiced that
this “ scandal ” has been “ removed.” The process
of removing the “soandal” is peculiar. The
coarse, brutalised, hard-drinking trooper, Fred-
erick Charles, is left at liberty to continue his
liaisons with the “ ladies ” of the Court on whose
acoount his Princess was driven from her home
and forced to go to her friends. The now palace
which the “happy couple” are to inhabit is to
have two staircases, one of which is to be for the
exclusive use of the rrincess, free from the in-
trusion of her husband or his mistresses. The
Princess is only to be required to submit to the
humiliation of dining with the Prince on official
occasions. Her horses, carriages, and servants are
to be free from the oontrol of the Prince or his
marshal.
We are charmed to observe in a copy of
the Court Journal, kindly marked for us and
Seated to us by Jack Heaton—we beg pardon, J.
[enniker Heaton. Esq.,—that Mrs. Ja—we mean
Mrs. J. Henniker Heaton, Esq.—attended the last
Drawing Room. A throb of pride will quiver
through the colonies on learning that they have
been thus honoured in the person of the wife of
one of the most noble and high-minded of their
fellows. The Court Journal says:—“Mrs. J.
Henniker Heaton (an Australian lady) was attired
in a becoming dress of black Lyons velvet, Spanish
lace, and natural roses, which was particularly
noticed for its elegance; she also wore a magnifi-
cent set of diamonds.” These will be the Heaton
family diamonds, we presume. Yet we can re-
member the time when Henniker used modestly
to content himself by wearing paste—the office
paste. He used to wear it all over the front of his
apron.
Old Mick Kennedy, of Parkes, has turned
up his toes to the groen. In the days of his prime,
Mick loved the teste of a shindy. Years ago, long
before Parkes was where it is now, the Bushman’s
dam was the only water for the diggers at the old
Currajong. One time, when the dam was getting
low, word came along that Forlonge had 15.000
sheep which he intended watering there. The
diggers marched down, Kennedy ahead, deter-
mined to defend the water at all hazards. The
15.0C0 sheep and the overseers, shepherds, 4c., were
marshalled along the. hill side, but the diggers,
dared them to water at the risk of a free fight.
After some time, Kennedy got impatient, “ Bedad,
boys,” cried he, “!we’ve been waitin’ here these
two hours and ne’er a drop of blood spilt yet 1”
Nothing came of his thirst for a melee, since the
shepherd force retired discreetly. We tell this lie
about the old fellow as the Parkes Chronicle
tells it.
The Marquis of Lome, it is now definitely
understood, will be appointed Viceroy of India, on
the resignation of Lord Ripon, which may shortly
be expected. The Queen has expressed a “wish”
on the subject, and, all things considered, there is
not much to be said against the little family ar-
rangement, for the glamour of royalty whioh failed
to impress the straightforward, plain spoken Can-
adians will be just to the taste of Anglo-Indian
“Society,” Louise will find the ladies quite con-
tent to exhibit a liberal amount of “necK”at re-
ceptions, thc-efore her royal notions of etiquette
will not be outraged as in Canada, where strong
objections were raised against the rigid enforce-
ment of “undress” with a thermometer below
zero. Possibly, too, Lome cherishes secret hopes
that climatioal influences may accomplish wonder-
ful things for the family, and that India will
succeed where Canada failed. Ayahs are wonder-
fully good with children, you know.
Some days ago, H. T. Donaldson and Dr.
Pierce, when driving from Nelligen to Milton had
an adventure. In going down a cutting, where the
road in places was only ten feet wide, the horses
swerved, and before Donaldson could bring them
to a stand, horses and buggy were over the cut-
ting. Pierce had jumped out a minute or so
previously, but Donaldson kept his seat till the
buggy was in the act of going over, when he also
jumped out, and, being a life assurance agent,
naturally escaped without the least shock to his
system. Horses, baggage and buggy lay in a con-
fused mass some thirty feet below entangled in
underbrush. After unsuccessfully endeavouring
to cut the horses loose, Donaldson started off for
assistance, and soon despatched a couple of men
with axes to the scene of the accident. He then
walked into Milton, and returned the following
morning with a fresh buggy, when he found that
the previous evening the horses had been cut
loose, but one had his neck broken.
At the Supreme Court, Dunedin, N.Z.,
Dr, Parry, of Kaitangata, was indicted on a charge
of manslaughter, found guilty, and provided with
furnished apartments, free of charge, ior four
months, at the expense of the colony. The doctor,
who was sent for at short notioe to introduce
a new immigrant, was so drunk that he
thought he had a Chinaman with a broken leg for
patient, and aoted accordingly. This treatment of
NOT LIKELY.
PRACTICAL MISTRESS (after giving a demonstration): “There now, Jane, that’s the
way to sweep. Do it like that.”
New Servant (by the last ship): “Whaat? And put a sehweat on me like that!
Not me.”
of the case, not being in accordance with the usual
practice of the profession, the victim of misplaced
confidence died from the injuries she received at
his hands. Before her death the doctor went to
sleep but was roused up again by an old lady who
propped him up on the sofa, washed his face,
combed his hair, and fixed him inside of a clean
white shirt. When the husband came home and
enquired for his wife the doctor took in hand to
break the sad news to him gently, and said “ H’m I
my boy 1 Shake hands and I’ll give you-hic—the
straight tip—She’s a dead wife to you, H’m—that’s
what she is—a regular goner, old man.”
Mr. F. A. Packer, of Hobart, writes us as
follows:— “I observe on page 17 of The Bulletin
of 19th April that one of your regular correspond-
ents, in referring to Charles Packer’s oratorio
The Grown of Thorns, says: * I have heard that
Mr. Stanley, of Stanmore, is responsible for not a
little of that beautiful work, but I cannot vouch
for the truth of it. Anyhow, if he is, he is very
modest about it.’ I beg you will allow me to state
that my late uncle, at my very urgent request,
very reiuotantly gave me, when in Melbourne, his
original score of the oratorio for the purpose of
having a copy made for myself. Every note of
the work was in his own handwriting, and it was
an exceedingly difficult thing for me to explain to
the copyist the numberless corrections, additions,
and emendations, evidently made by the author as
it progressed. That copy, in justice to the excep-
tionally gifted composer’s musical fame, is entirely
at the service of any musician who desires to com-
pare the MS. with the work as printed. I take it
for granted that Mr. Stanley will at once endorse
my statement.”
The quarrel betwixt Anglican parson Rosa
and ex-policeman O’Neill, both of Queanbeyan,
waxeth hot and hotter. In his latest epistolary
deliverance the parson thinks he clinches the fact
of his exceptionally high social and professional
status by the following delicious assertion : -
When I have served one of the best churches in
Australasia—a church attended by the Governor—
I have nothing to fear.” The late lamented Dr.
Dodd used to serve the Chapel Royal and yet—
parson Hoss can perhaps supply the vacuum. In
the same letter whence tne above quotation is
taken also occurs another clincher. “I can show
to any proper person that I have in my possession
| a dog from the kennel and strain of a British peer
of the realm,” There now, ye scorners! why, by
the blessed wig of the never to be sufficiently
venerated St. Louis Quatorze, it ought to be a
pleasure to be bitten by so aristocratic a cur—
to say nothing of the ecstacy to be derived from
being proached t" by a levite who has served in a
church attended by a Throw up the
sponge, O’Neill.
Cornelius Fuchs Corrigan, a native of Tas-
mania, was, until recently, an aristocratic bank
clerk in New Zealand. How it fell out we cannot
say, but a little while ago Cornelius and the bank
parted company, and since then, while the latter
has paid the usual dividends, Cornelius has not,
somehow, exhibited the same extent of spotless
shirt-front and snowy cuffs as before the deed of
separation took effect. Cornelius, in fact, has been
low down on his luck, but determined to improve
matters lately, he borrowed several blank cheques
and went to work. Atone establishment in Christ-
church he bought a plough and some other, agricul-
tural implements, paying for them with a cheque
he signed “ Watt &Co . Blenhoim.” With another
document he invested In a hhd. of beer, and with a
third he shouted for a friend, and an obliging
landlord gave him cash to the extent of £l loa in
change. Cornelius then took a little breathing
space—paused, as it were, for a reply from the
bank at Benheim—and then one day found himself
in the k>ek-up. Then came a day of reckoning
before Judge Johnston and a jury. Result, three
years.
A story of “Chinese” Gordon was told
recently by an old Artillery pensioner. The first
day on which fire was opened at Sebastopol from
the twenty-one gun battery, the sand-bags form-
ing one of the embrasures caught fire from the
flash of a too closely mounted gun. A corporal
and a sapper of the Engineers were told off to re-
pair the damage. The corporal ordered the sap-
per to mount the embrasure, and proposed to hand
up the fresh bags to him. They were under heavv
fire at the time, and the sapper, with some want of
discipline certainly, demurred to this arrange-
ment, and suggested that the corporal should get
up, and that he (the sapper) would go on with the
handing-up business. There was a bit of a wrangle
over it. Gordon, who was passing, inquired into
ma tter and quietly telling the corporal,
Never order a man to do what you are afraid
to do yourself,” got up on the pile of bags himself,
and said, Come up here, both of you,” and then
ordered the men who were working the gun to
hand the bags ud. The storm of bullets swept
over Gordon and the two men, but his charmed
life Reemed to protect the trio. He finished his
work, and came down as coolly as he had mounted,
but the lesson was never forgotten by those
around.
Mr. W. H. Nicholls, State schoolmaster of
Ballarat, has been appointed by the vote of the
teachers a classifier under the Victorian Education
Department. This board has been set going with
a view to settle the status of hundreds of teachers
who are most justly dissatisfied with the years of
departmental and political dodgery which have
there, as here, led to no end of corruption. Mr.
Nicholes is a scholar of the best style—he is not only
a successful teacherand trainer of teachers, having
trained privately nearly as many as the training
school, but a man of high scientific attainment (
and sound sense. It was through his exertions
that the system of instruction in the Ballarat
School of Mines was shown up, and a system of
real instruction substituted for a pretentious and
absurd travesty. He is a man of about forty, as
cultivated as Matthew Arnold, and with much
more practical common sense. It would not be
amiss if a few such men could be employed in
N S.W. to look into old abuses and try to rectify
some of the[|blunders of the old blunderers who
have spent our millions on what they call “ ad-
ministering’’the Education vote. When a majority
of the teachers are discontented, and yet three
quarters of a million are wanted yearly, it is high
time a few hundreds more were spent to find a
remedy.
The pioneer of Hay is dead. Dr. Thomas
Lang is—or rather was—the man we mean. Long
years ago he went out into what was then the
wilderness, nnd bought the rights of the explorer,
Benjamin Boyd, in that part of the country which
surrounds what is now the town of Hay. Dr. Lang
had several large runs, and was a rich man. The
rest we quote from the Riverine Grazier.
“When the drought and the fall in wool took
place that ruined Hugh Glass, Degraves, and other
enterprising men. Dr. Lang fared ill, and had to
fall under the pressure of the banks, losing all his
stations. Since then he has been living quietly on
his selection, living on its proceeds and his prac-
tice. He was 74 years of age, and leaves, we be-
lieve, three children, who have long since gone
forth into the world.” The lives of men like this
will make the early history of our country as
delightful to the coming generations as the pages
of Livy are to us, when the poor political pheno-
menons (we will use what kind of a plural we
please, thank you,) are altogether forgotten, or
remembered only by the student with a smile of
derision. Of couise, we do not allude to Andy
Lynch.
The miserable persecution of Richard
Belt, the sculptor, by an envious clique of stiff
necked Academicians, has come to a fitting termi-
nation. Charles Lawes, the defendant in the libel
case, has, after moving heaven and earth to pro-
cure a new trial, without success, played his last
card, and-filed a petition In bankruptcy. So
Belt, after coming triumphantly out of the ordeal
with a verdict for £5OOO damages, will, apparently,
be largely out of pocket over the transaction.
His own costs, it is stated, will exceed nine thousand
pounds; therefore, in the event of the'insolvent
paying as much as ten shillings in the pound, the
much maligned sculptor must make a loss nf two
thousand. Such a climax would be sufficiently
disgraceful, even if it were not known that Lawes
has been all along merely the instrument with
which the Royal Academicians (Sir Fred. Leighton
at their head) were endeavouring to crush Belt.
Large sums of money have been collected among
them for the purpose of providing Lawes with the
sinews of war, and it has, doubtless, been an
understood thhog that their adversary was to be
let in” in this shameful manner, provided their
case failed. Lawes is the only son of an exceed-
ingly rich man—Sir John Bennett Lawes—and the
old ’un ought not to have let the “boy” make
such a mean skunk of himself.
The restless spirit which landed Colonel
Burnaby in the thick of the war against the A rabs
took another officer of the Guards on a journey
not quite so perilous, but not less interesting. It
was Colonel Colville, of the Grenadier Guards, who
went over to Arabia to survey the site of the pro-
posed Jordan Valley Canal. Colville went right
across the desert from Egypt, riding on camels,
and following the old pilgrim tract. It was a long,
lonely journey, and full of interesting episodes.
At one time he came upon a vast camp of Arabs
on their way to Mecca. The way of getting about
in these parts is to pay blackmail to the chiefs who
hold sway over successive tracts of country. For
this money they provide camels and a safe con-
duct. The geographical limit of their territory,
though it does not appear on any maps, is clearly
marked. At a particular spot one chief’s territory
finishes and another begins, and there arises
necessity for more blackmail and a change cf
camels. Colonel Colville had with him one com-
panion, also an officer of an English regimei t.
“Where is he now?” was a question put to the
colonel. “Probably in a Russian prison,” he
answered. “He went off to sketch on the Russian
frontier, a pursuit of artistic desire with which
the Russian military officers deal very promptly.”
Colonel Colville has written an account of his
journey, which will shortly be published. He is at
present in Egypt.
At Christchurch (fr.Z.) Mr. David Howard
Moncrieff Ogilvy went up lately for three years
for forgery. David was too extensively baptised
in early life to come to any good end. We never
yet knew a fellow with a galaxy of illustrious
names in front of him who didn’t steal, embezzle,
or commit some other mean trick in revenge for
the injustice done him in the way of nomenclature.
David Howard &c., however, was no common
character. He possessed undoubted credentials
which proved him to be a man of considerable
ability. He is an accomplished linguist, and can
talk and correspond in six or seven European and
Asiatic languages. He was for many years foreign
correspondent for the London firm of James Mac-
andrew and Co. at their braneh house at Smyrna
in Asia Minor. When the Russo-Turkish war broke
out. the firm withdrew their business from Smyrna,
and Ogilvy got an engagement as interpreter under
Baker Pasha, and followed that warrior into many
a daring encounter, receiving on one occasion the
compliments of a Cossack in the shape of a sabre-
cut on the head. David emigrated to New Zealand
lately, and found his numerous languages of no
service to him in earning a livelihood. At Christ-
church he was reduced to beggary—sleeping in
out-houses and under trees, sometimes for days
without food. Eventually he forged a cheque,
drank the proceeds, was arrested, and found in
board and lodgings for three years.
James Logan, of Dunolly (Vic.), stands up
for his rights and privileges. Some time ago he
was elected a member of the local hospital com-
mittee. The other members didn’t like him. Why
they didn’t is beside the question. Perhaps he
didn’t us© his “ h’s ” properly, or perhaps his blood
is not blue enough (although his name is rather
against this conjecture), or perhaps he would not
stand treat freely enough for the leading men of
the town, who, as a matter of course, are hospital
committee men. Far out, any of these reasons
calls for strict ostracism. At all events, his brother
members tried to freeze James out. But it would
take a mighty hard frost to get through the epi-
dermis of James. Then they coughed him down
when he spoke. But James liked to hear himself
talking, and he took his little pleasure out just as
if millions listened. Then, when voting came, they
tried not to see his right hand. But he brandished
it, and made them see it. Then they plumply said
they wouldn’t count him, and his name was not let
appear for or against any question in the minute-
book. So James Logan has arisen. He has put his
case into the Equity Court, and has feed a strong
Melbourne bar. He has issued writs against each
member of the committee, so that the fun will be
all round. If be lose, James is down for a big
thing; but if he win, .each member will be per-
sonally responsible fOr the cost of the candle.
Divested of the atrooious nature of its
manifest truthfulness, the following story of a
snake ought to commend itself to the scientific
world in general. It happened to be at Chiltcrn
(Vic.) this time, and as the hoofiess monster was
enjoying the scenery of the Chiltern Park, a dog
by the name of Bo’sun smelt at the varmint and
set it going. Before Bo’sun had time to reflect on
the foolishness of his proceeding, he was carefully
bitten in the right jowl; and, being ina“recipro-
citous” mood that day, he grabbed the snake’s
tail in his mouth and began to chew it. This led
the snake to believe that Bo’sun was not actuated
by friendly feelings towards him, and he accord-
ingly began to travel. Speaking of this, the local
paper observes the representative of Eve’s seducer
“climbed up a telegraph post, (and then crossed
over to the island on one of the telegraph wires.
The distance from post to post is about 40 yards,
and the snake took 10 minutes to perform the
feat.” All of which is strictly true, but why
should the journal in question ignore the fact that
Bo’sun not only followed his snakeship, but
actually tapped the wires, read off a telegram to
the effect that Kong Meng shares had risen to £27
10s, and then dropped the snake chase, and re-
turned with the information to his owner, who
bought into the elaim and amassed a handsome
fortune. What’s the use of telling reptile yarns
at all if you do not confine yourself to stiict facts?
There aren’t many men of the name of
Mirls in Victoria. Yet the colony doesn’t show
signs of coming to an end on that account. As
long as the Smiths hold out, it can reckon on a
constantly increasing population. But the want
of a decent supply of Mirls is a disadvantage to
the lew who own that name. For instance, when
somebody says “Mlris said thi*,” or “Mirls said
that,” everybody goes home and tells his wile
that Mr. Mirls, the locomotive superintendent,
said this or that. The consequence is that Mr.
Mirls is put in some awkward predicaments. The
other day Mr. Speight, chairman of the railway
commissioners, ordered all trains to be at once
fitted with continuous brakes. Some Mirls said:
“The order is bosh; the brakes aren’t wanted.”
Thereupon, everyone told his wife that “Mr.
Mirls, the locomotive superintendent, had called
Speight’s order bosh.” And after the wives
had cried “Lawk a mussy,” Service jumped
up and ordered a board of inquiry to s't and
ascertain if such language had been used.
Of course the language was used. But by an-
other Mirls altogether. It may appear to some
that if there were more Mirls the disadvantage to
this Mirls would be still greater. But close in-
spection will reveal otherwise. Multitude shelters
individuality. To say Smith does so and so, does
not expose any particular Smith. To bring a par-
ticular Smith to the mind of a hearer you must
go through a long list of baptismal, geographical,
social, professional, and other items. E. g., “ L. L..
late the residence of his Excellency. At home off
and on. Look well into thy heart. Packets sealed
from observation.” Why don’t you call yourself
Smith, Mirls ? But perhaps you’d rather stand an
inquiry every day than do it. Perhaps. And it
shows your taste.
Perhaps a few words will be interesting
about the peppery painter who lately had such a
severe quarrel with Mr*. Mackay. His vanity and
irascibility are both sc sensitive that it is almost
impossible to talk with Meissonier without affront-
ing him, and it is no wonder, therefore, that such
a peculiar artist should have been frantic when
the portrait he painted for Mrs. Mackay met with
its melancholy and malodorous fate. He laid
himself open to it, because in portrait painting he
does not excel. In evervthing else he is certainly
the highest paid, if not the greatest, of the artists


E
MIL
frese’s
HAMBURG
TEA
THE GREAT GERMAN FAMILY MEDICINE.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to he a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Calds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney, and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c, caused by an impure state, or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Scrofula,
«utaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventive against con-
tagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and Con-
tagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood, cleanses
the Stomach and Bow els, and gives to the whole
system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the bowels
in a mild and eertain w ay. It works on the system
generally, causing little or no discomfort. It will
prevent almost any disease if used at least once a
month. It restores the appetite, it removes the
distress caused by eating hearty food or overload-
ing the stomach, and will be found effectual as a
Family Remedy where a simple purgative only is
needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT. Full
directioi'S in English, French, Spanish, and Ger-
man with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies at ONE SHILLING a packet. Whole-
sale Depot for New South Wales —ELLIOTT
BROTHERS. Bydney.
Ask for Hockiups’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Wells’
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
Eat and Live.— lf your stomach craves for
a pleasant bitter to sharpen the keen edge of
appetite, ask your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, the Great Nerve Tonic. Take no sub-
stitute. Wholesale at the principal patent medi-
cine warehouses, and the proprietors, Marshall
Brothers M.P.S., 104 and 106, Market-st., Sydney.
Mr. DeCoubct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert. Adviser and Mining Titles,
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Advt.
Avoid a costive habit of body not only
because of the attending discomfort but lest it en-
gender more serious consequences. Dr. Jayne’s
sanative Pills are either Laxative or Cathartic, ac-
cording to the dose, and may be depended upon
to produce healthy secretions of the Liver and
Stomach. To be had of all Druggists and Store-
keepers; and wholesale by Elliott Bros., Pitt-
street, Sydney.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents 26 O’Connell-
street, Sydney. P?” Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. Agents for
the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stock.*
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs. Whoopiug
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss or Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief:
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “ Arnold's ’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
offered.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Rags, Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy artiole, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d. per
package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
colours, &c., &c. by return poet.
of modern France; equal, they say, to any praiso
that pen can give him. Like Victor Hugo, in the
realm of literature, so Meissonier. now ,2 years of
passes his declining days amid the radiance of
’own past splendid works. He is personally
iinnopular, because he is so irritable and eccentric,
so Conceited, and so blunt in his criticism of others.
“r h at is the reason so few venture to visit his mag-
nificent residence and studio in Paris. It will not do
tr> nrefer one of his pictures to another, for m his
pvee they are all perfect, and each of surpassing
merit H is dangerous to ask if any picture is for
S,ip for he will not condescend to the details of
barter with any stranger who wishes to buy. A
Powerfully-built torso, on short legs, has Jean
fouis Ernest Meissonier, the artist, with a head
like one of the grandest creations of Michael
Angelo, superb in its profusion of gray hair, Wow-
ing" beard, and piercing eyes—a man to look at
.main—a figure of singular interest and history. It
fs’ over 50 years since Meissonier first commenced
Painting in Paris; and he does not like to speak of
that time. For years he nearly starved, endured
sufferings that required an iron frame to stand,
drew anything lor his daily bread. He copied
pictures in the Louvre galleries at the rate of four
shillings a square yard, decorated bonbon boxes*
fans and firescreens, with a minuteness that is
now’ wondered at. And yet, for years he was
neglected. But one day the “ Chess-player was
orhibited in the salon. It attracted notice from
critics. It was new style. The era of a splendid
technique dawned, and Meissoner was a famous
man.
Ballarat had a great day of it on the 27th.
After a widowhood of fifteen months, it cast aside
the sable weeds and donned the blossoms. The
most reverend head of the house, Dr. O’Connor,
had sliddered, and the falling of tears and wring-
ing of hands had gone on until, on the last Sunday
in April, Monßignor Moore jumped the vacant
slippers. The Monsignor is a big man genealogi-
cally, intellectually, and physically. When it is
stated that he hails from the Emerald Isle, the first
point must stand confessed. Only a benighted
foreigner could he unaware that the line goes
right back to a royal stock. But even this ignor-
ance, if it should exist, can be rifted by a brief
narrative. When Prince Leopold died, Monsignor
Moore, alone of all the Catholic dignitaries in Vic-
toria, waxed grievously distressed, and dribbled
irreasy blubber about the sanctuary. No reference
was made to the subject in the Catholic churches
of Melbourne or its suburbs. Remembering that
like feels for like, this incident rifts something.
D’ye see ? Intellectually, he is also big. He was a
student of Ali-Hallows College. That is an insti-
tution which stands immensely high as a theo-
logical educator. So immensely high, indeed, does
it stand, that the Church authorities at home
always send the men educated there away to the
outermost bounds of the earth, and seldom want
them back any more for ever. An All-Hallows
man can be counted on for understanding nearly
one-half of his Breviary. The other half he plods
through with the sure conviction that heaven
understands it, whatever it is. And Monsignor
Moore is also physically big. He is 6ft. 3in. in his
socks. So that the Church of Ballarat has got as
much of a man as it could expect. This is the
new Bishop, and the new Dad of the Poor. Arch-
bishop Goold consecrated him, and the whole
thing was gone through in a brilliant, dazzling
sort of a way. Several town-councillors, a lot of
mayors, and a long line of J.’sP. were there, And
John Duffy, the son of patriotic Gavan (who
escaped when better men went under), and the
Hon, N. Fitzgerald, and Dr. Brownless went up as
patrons. And Bishops Murphy, Reynolds, Lanigan,
and Torregiani, with a host of minor shovelhats,
were there. And they dressed Dr. Moore up in
bibs, cords, overalls, and spangles, until he looked
like one of Emelie Melville’s opera bouffers. There
they put him, sitting on a throne, clapped a mitre
on his head, gave him a crook, and with a sym-
bolical one. two, three, kicked him off. Now he is
the Dad of the Poor. And he began well. He
charged 53. and 2s. for admission to see him, and
suspended the free list. Then he took over a
carriage and a pair of greys valued at £lBO to help
him to go about. And then he invited the leading
people to a dinner at his palace. That’s how the
Dad of the Poor spent his first day. There s
nothing like beginning well.
Jerusalem stoned the prophets. In all
probability Jerusalem was justified in its emphatic
action because the aforesaid prophets tipped
Martini for the last Leger. But when it comes to
a case of starving the inspired seers, we respect-
fully send up a cry to Heaven for summary juris-
diction. D. Brown [Hold on is this .Hon©
Brown?”—Ed.B.], for instance, complains that he
has been for the past eleven weeks an Anglican
prophet of the Lord in a province called Nathalia;
and, so far as we can learn, the people of Nathalia
make a similar complaint. They were not anxiems
for prophets, and least of all were they longing
for prophets of the D. Brown calibre. D. Brown
didn’t seem to strike their lancies. As our Bible
scholars remember, Saul of Tarsus used to get into
gaol, and was even flogged to enlist the sympa-
thies of the multitude, but D. Brown of Nathalia
didn’t. Consequently, the apostle Brown was
carefully sot in the mud by the general public.
Therefore, Brown the Evangelist has been com-
pelled of late to keep himself and his wife and
child on per week. That’s where Saul ot
Tarsus held the bulge on Brown. Sauldidn t have
a wife and| child— or, at least, if he did, he kept
them dark. But D. Brown, he said they didn t
know everything down in Judea, and accordingly
he took to himself a wife and family, and started
off to preach the gospel and to plant the church.
Apparently, however, they didn’t pay, and accord-
ingly, the pulpit-puncher being seized with a Tom-
Slattery-on-to-Tom-Butler mania, wrote to the
local papers, and complained as follows: From
information laid against me I have been requested
to leave tho township. The complaints are as fol-
lows: (1) My inability to ride on horseback ; (2) My
sermons were useless; (3) Eating and drinking with
those my inferiors. As a recompense for my
labours, I have received from this and adjoining
parishes during eleven weeks the total sum of
£7 6s. lid., which will average 13s. 4|d. per week,
out of which I have had to pay 12s. per week rent,
and Is. each week for the use of the school
where I held service, thus leaving me 4>£d. per
week to keep my wife and child. Touching
item the first, wo remember that in the rouse-
about days of Bendigo, a former apostle
was requested to leave, and didn’t. Two days
alter the notice was served, however, a demnition
dead body was found dangling from a tree just
outside the township and causing much conster-
nation amongst the adventuresome crows ot the
surrounding districts. Catching on to the second
complaint, the people of Nathah would seem to
be over-sensitive. Apostle Brown cannot sit a
44 bucker,” as be frankly admits* but the Nathalians
should remember that Saul was once badly thrown
also. Charge the third is that Brother Brown s
sermons were useless. If he resigns in conse-
quence, and all other gospel expounders follow
suit, this land willlsoon be as free from clerics as
it is from Bengal tigers. With respect to the
eating and drinking business, Mr. Brown observes
that if he didn’t feed when opportunity offered
he’d have died from starvation before he had
Bpent his first week in Nathalia. All of which leads
us to infer that there is a better opening for a dog
and monkey show in Nathalia than there is tor a
second edition of Dr. Barry.
A remarkable man in many respeots is
Luke Gulson, the present Mayor of Albury. Re-
markable in the Border village as having read ana
partly understood ishakespeare ; remark ible as
naving the courage to have his hair out once a
month, in a land where short hair recalls sad
memories. A man “ dowered with the hate of
hate, the scorn of scorn, and the love” —of lect-
uring on Burns. Alas ! we are all grotesquely
human on some point, and that is where it catches
Luke wor6t. He is a Paladin in the vaD of any cause
which his caprice or judgment approves, and a lion
in the path of anything it doesn’t—which is lots. He
has been for years the E. W. o’Bullivan of the
“ worrukin man ” in Albury, and the flagellator,
with a whip of scorpions, of all sorts and condi-
tions of people. We remember when an obese and
sepulchrallv respectable Government official, witfl
a big screw, was about leaving Albury once, he
(the official) was presented with a purse of sover-
eigns collected by a few frantic adorers from a
dazzled public. Then it was that the border icmio-
clast arose in his towering sublimity. He bribed
a fallen tower of the wood-and-water-joey per-
suasion called “Tommy the Londoner,” to allow
himself to be made the object of a similar public
recognition, which duly came off, amid the
plaudits of a yelling populace. The present
Mayor boldly conducted the whole circus, and
read letters from the principal maintenance men
and leading Chinese gardeners apologising for
their absence, and bearing high testimony to the
honourable manner in which the poor old bum-
mer had discharged the duties of his position, and
again, we remember, when a jury had occasion to
censure the Government medical officer, and the
two local papers sailed into the jury ther.vfor,
the jury turned to Luke in the moment of their
direct need. He worked up a big indignation
meeting to which the two editors were invited,
and at which, after a world of Titantic slang-
whanging, the papers were burnt under their
respective noses. That’s the sort of hair-pin they
have for a Mayor in Albury. But with all this
splendour of achievement, he still harbours the
grisly delusion that he can talk Scotch. Once
once only, and no more—we went to hoar nun.
He was lecturing at the Mechanics on the Lite
and writings of Burns.” After the newspaper
episode he seemed to regard himself as a greater
authority than usual on “burns.” Alderman
Frew, who was innocently present, was seduced
into the chair and the Golgotha began to de-
velop. The Life was told in English and went off
without incident, but “some words that were
warnings of doom ” fell from him as he approached
the Writings. By way of breaking it gently, he
said “mafreens,” quite successfully, and although
we saw the chairman’s face blanch, the foolish,
fascinated people stayed in their seats. By and
by, he let fall the word “clishmaclaver,” and an
awful expectancy came upon the shuddering
audience. The next stage was “joctelegs, and
the horror deepened. Then he quoted— 1 ance
was abused i’ the kirk for touzlin’ a lass i my
daffin,” which may have been the Gospel truth, but
it had the effect of making the chairman openly
fly for his life, and escape from the room by a
subterranean passage, whence we are happy to say,
he reached his home still breathing, but very lowj
During the rendering of the “Address to a Haggis,
a brave and stalwart few (mostly Highlanders) made
a desperate rush for the door and escaped, but the
women and ohildren were left to their fate. It was
noted that the plaster in the ceiling of the Hall
turned blue next day, and the death-rate went up
33 9-100 that winter, Although the experience of
that awful night curtailed our life, we forgave
him on account of his redeeming qualities, ana ms
solemn promise as Mayor to try Scotch nae
mair.”
Baron Albert Grant, of Emma Mine no-
toriety, who presented the Leicester Square
Gardens to the Londoners, and whose stupendous
mansion at Hyde Park had to be pulled down
after his fortunes flickered, because no one could
be found willing to stand the expense of living in
it, is to the fore again in tremendous form. He
[ has projected and floated a monster company to
work certain gold mines in the South African
1 Transvaal, and the gigantic scope of his enterprise
is positively staggering. His prospectus is a
masterpiece of allurement. The area of the
“claim” is eighteen thousand acres, and when
one is through the prospectus the idea left °h the
I mind is that the whole surface of that tract
will pan out ever so many ounces to the ton
when put through treatment, while countless lodes
seam the strata, and are all richly impregnated
with gold. The Baron appears to have captured
all the great scientific authorities he could lay
hold of—men with magnificent status a,nd no prac-
tical acquaintance with the industry of gold min-
ing, and to have used them, without their being
aware of it, a a decoy ducks. Thus the report,
after inspection of the ground—conceive a man,
however scientific, pretending to say now the
reefs and alluvial in 18,000 acres will yield in the
aggregate—he puts most prominently
from a John M. Stuart, Esq., M. Soc. Arts, F.R.G.S,
and a big figure in the list of the statf is the
“ mineralogist, geologist, and aseayer, Professor
M. Forster-Heddle, M.D., F.R.S. Edm., President
of the Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and
Ireland, Past President of the Geological Society
of Edinburgh, and Professor of Chemistry in the
i University of St. Andrew’s,” a gentleman of
splendid abilities and attainments as a closet mine-
ralogist, field geologist, and lecture-room chemist,
but who has been rusting for a decade in St. Andrews
in a professor’s berth, which scarcely found him in
bread and butter, and who knows about as much
of gold-fields as did the late lamented Queen Anne,
as he has never been out of Europe, and scarcely
out of Scotland, in his life. We know all about
him, you see, because he happens to be oar
uncle. Well, here is the style in which John M.
Stuart, Eeq., M. Soc. Arts and F.R.G.S., reports;—
“ Mr. Stuart has supplied a very elaborate report,
with drawings and diagrams; he places the whole
vein-matter, ore and slate worked together, as oi
the average worth of £3l4s. per ton, a gross value
of over twenty-five millions sterling (!); he esti-
mates that the cost of working, mining, and mill-
ing, including maintenance of mills, would not
exceed 13s. a ton, and at this rate he reckons the
net profit would be upwards of ten millions ster-
ling. (11 ! 1) In reference to the annual profits, he
states that, looking to the abundance of water on
the Lisbon Estate, there should be a net profit ot
£l4OO per day (1), or £430,000 per year ( !) of three
hundred working days, adding that this is based
upon employing one-half the water power, and
that if the whole were used the revenue would be
double. (11!) This would be from hydraulic work-
ing on the alluvial soil alone. With reference to
quartz-crushing with46o (I) heads of stamps, he
says there would be a profit of £3840 a day, equal
to £853,000 per annum (I), allowing only 13dwts. of
gold to the ton of quartz and slate crushed to-
gether; the quartz alone running to many ounces
per ton. Mr. Stuart reports that be made a large
number of teste on the ground, the lowest
of which showed over 10 oz. to the ton. and
running up to about 1000 oz. per ton. (I II11 1)
The exclamation marks are our own. There is a
lot more palaver in the same splendid vein. In
fact, if the quartz-veins be anything like as
splendid, the thing will gee and no mistake. The
whole business is worked up no-end—a little bit of
bathos, rendered necessary by the pestilent curi-
osity of possible subscribers, being carried off in
beautiful style. Thus : “ The present workings
only cover an area of about 30 acres (whoop . 30
acres out of 18,000), “which will give some idea of
how little”—the promoters have in the way ot
facte to go upon? not at all — * how little the mines
have been fexhausted 1” This noble enterprize,
based on a 30-acre claim actually worked (for
that’s what it comes to), and the chances that
17980 acres around about will be as good, is placed
at £500,000, in £L shares, of which 300,000 are ap-
propriated by the promoters in part payment ot
the properties. And before a day’s work has been
done, officers are engaged for a term of years, at
salaries exceeding, insome cases, £lOOO per annum
per man, with a retiring pension, free passage, and
Lord only knows what. Baron Albert Grant is a
smart man, we rather think, and we feel anxious
about Nunky I
Within the last few weeks the case of
Valentine Baker has once more been thrust upon
the attention of an unwilling public. Yet another
agitation has been entered upon by a number of
those London journals, such as Punch, the World,
Vanity Fair, and the Whitehall Review,
which pander to the haw-haw element in society.
The latest idol which it has pleased them to raise is
Baker Pasha, whom they are seeking to pitchfork
bach into the position he lost some ten years ago
bv his own heinous fault. The nature and circum-
stances of that fault, or rather crime, need no
recapitulation—they are as well known as Baker
Pasha himself. Sulfice it to say that an impartial
iurv found him guilty of a dastardly outrage
against a defenceless young lady in a railway car-
riage. He was sentenced to a term of imprison-
ment, and to pay a fine of £so°, the mildness of the
sentence being explained by the fact that it was
an understood thing that he would bei dismissed
Her Majesty’s service. Had the culprit been an
ordinary individual, without friends at Court,
and had he not occupied social position and mili-
tary rank, there is no doubt but that he would
I have been condemned to penal servitude. As it
was, he was allowed to mitigate the just penalty
by payment of a fine, and to spend the short term
of his incarceration in the otium cum dignitate of
I a first-class misdemeanant, which, alas! for the
purity of modern English justice, has become the
tpecial privilege of aristocratic or moneyed
offenders. Now, this is the man for whom sym-
pathy is claimed, whose cruel fate is bemoaned by
Messrs. Burnand, Yates, Lawes, Bowles and Co.,
who declare that since he was cashiered and chased
from the pale of English society, Baker Pasha has
redeemed his reputation in the eyes of his country-
men and of the world. Let us see if this be so.
Having, as we have seen, escaped the just punish-
ment of his crime, Valentine Baker betook him-
self to the more congenial climate of Turkey,
where, thanks to the easy virtues of the Turk, and
strong recommendation from a great personage at
home, he obtained service. The unwholesome
notoriety which he had attained to did not in any
way miligate against his success and popularity
on the Bosphorous. A tall, well-made, handsome
man, as he is, he found no difficulty in obtaining
the entric to the best of Levantine society on the
Golden Horn. During his stay at Constantinople,
he was to be seen at all the balls, garden parties,
regattas, &c.—in fact, everywhere except at the
British Embassy, where, of course, he was not
admitted. He drew a handsome salary from the
impoverished Turks, like the other foreign officers
in the Turkish service, for doing nothing. He
kept up an elegant establishment at Prinkipo, one
of the most delightful situations on the Bos-
phorous; he maintained his yacht, and beguiled
the dolcefar niente of Turkish life by fishing, shoot-
ing, and riding. Those who saw him can testify
that the atmosphere and surroundings of the
Sultan’s Court and service suited him remarkably
well, and that in his daily life and bearing he be-
trayed none of those signs of deep humiliation
and mental suffering of which so much has been
said of late. He got command of a division in the
Russo-Turkish war, where he is said to have acted
the part of a hero, and te have all but turned the
tide of victory against the Russian arms; though
we are bound to confess that we have never yet
seen one tittle of evidence to prove that he did
more than the other foreign officers who then
fought with the Turks. When he returned to Con-
stantinople, it is true he was made a.Mushir, which
is the highest grade of a Pasha, and equal to the
rank of an English field-marshal. Decorations in
Turkey, however, prove nothing; money will buy
them, and the highest honour the Sultan has to
confer may be bought dirt cheap. When acrobats,
tumblers, and lion-tamers are decorated by tne
Sultan with orders which secretaries to Embassies
are proud to wear, the average value of Turkish
decorations may be easily guaged. The revolt of
Arabi and the bombardment of Alexandria seemed
to open up new scenes of ambition, and to point
the way by which he could re-enter the charmed
circle of English society. The astute Turks, how-
ever, raised objections to their English Pasha
taking part in what the Sublime Porte considered
an attack upon Islam. But, as we have seen,
Baker Pasha is not a person easy to be put off;
what he cannot get by consent he deigns to take
by force. He took French leave, or, in other words,
deserted the Turks, who had received and shel-
tered him in his hour of need, and placed his sword
at the service of the English Government and the
Khedive. Desperate efforts were made to get him
appointed to the command-in-chief of the army ot
occupation after the battle of Tel-el-Kebir, but
the British authorities dared not, even though they
had wished, appoint him. The Khedive was less
obdurate, and gave him the command of the
newly-organised gendarmerie force. He has lately
been before the public somewhat prominently as
in command of an Egyptian force in the Soudan,
with which he was destined to play, after the un-
fortunate Hicks Pasha, the most melancholy r6le
in the campaign, when the troops under him were
butchered almost to a man by the Arabs at El Teb.
This, in brief, may be said to be the Public career
of Baker Pasha since he was dismissed the British
service. We fail to discover anything very brilliant
in it— certainly nothing to occasion that gush of
public sympathy which, if we are to believe certain
journals, has taken place in favour of a man who,
while holding high rank in the British army and
wearing the Queen’s uniform, attempted to out-
rage the chastity of a lonely and unprotected
voung lady. WU repeat that, had he not belonged
to the “upper ten,” he would even now be expiat-
ing his crime in a convict prison. We can well
understand the kind of backstair influence by
which the gushes of maudlin sympathy in Punch
and kindred sheets has been evoked, and the un-
holy compact to reinstate a man who has been
justly chased from society, but it will not avail.
The British public will not allow a crime to be
made the stepping-stone to its sympathy. Indivi-
duals may forgive a personal offence, but law and
society are bound to see that the penalties pro\ ided
for such offences as Baker Pasha’s are enforced to
the uttermost. The pleas put forward bysuoh jour-
nals as PUNCH, VANITY Faib, and the World are
as offensive as they are false. The former journal
pleads that Baker Pasha has been wounded under
the eye with a sharpnel shell, and that there is a
danger of erysipelas supervening, and, therefore,
concludes that “there is only one medicine that
should at once cure him of his mental and physical
wounds, and that is a message from England to
the effect that he was to have the mercy we all
Drav for, and that after these many years he was
to be restored to some position of some sort
amongst his comrades in arms. As a pendant to
this impudent bathos, we cannot refrain from
quoting one or two specimens from the World.
Tf savs- “The indignant matrons of England have
resolved themselves into a kind of informal jury.
Nice people have been defined as people
of 'nasty notions, and the outraged wives and
mothers who have written to the various editors
are animated by motives which may be compared
not altogether favouraf ly with the instincts which
impel the shrieking sisterhood IQ to the ™jdst of
the C.D. Acts agitation. In addition to this
coarse and barefaced condonation of an offence
against female chastity, the same journal proceeds
to inform the public that the name of Valentine
Baker has been reinscribed on the roll of a London
club, and remarks: * The opinion of a London
c ub upon matters relating to social decency or
conduct is the highest, most trustworthy, and
most equitable expression of worldly judgment
and teste.” Cardinal Dubois explained his eleva-
tion to the Cardinalate'and to the direction of affairs
bv quoting his favourite maxim: “Pour clevenir
orand homme il faut itre grand sctUrat. This
infamous Minister, on being kicked five times by
the regent Orleans-once eaoh for the rogue, the
pimp, the priest, the minister, and the archbishop-
coolly remarked “I pardon you, because I await the
sixth as Cardinal”; and he was not disappointed.
Although Baker Pasha’s "chums” seem to think
the contrary, the day for the promotion of rascals
is past: it is the present fashion to give them more
kicks than half-pence. It might be otherwise
were the expressions 6f “worldly judgment and
taste” and the opinions on “social decency’
emanating from Lendon clubs allowed to guide us
fn our ideas of public morality and of the honour
and*'chastity of woman. Wo speak now not of
clubs in general, because there are many clubs
which are the resorts of honourable gentlemen.
But there is another class of clubs which have of
Inte vears become notorious as seminaries ot
debauchery and gambling, and of vice of every
kind They are known to be the haunts of a
snecies of genteel blackguardism, wnich is all the
more dangerous that it covers itself with a hlaokor a
red coat, and seeks refuge in Piccadilly or the Mall .
This is the class of establishment to which we
refer • and notwithstanding that they are numei-
ous, and can boast many very fashionable person-
ages amongst their members, they are not likely
?n becomef for the present, at least, the sources
f?om which either the officers of the British army
or the British public generally will consent to
draw either maxims of honour or codes of morals.
Archibald Forbes is said to be “agliner,”
both as far as his pocket and his health are con-
cerned. The gory battlefield floored the one, and
Yankee sharpness the other. Arohy, however, is
still just as egotistically vigorous at creating
archiDelagos of “I’s” in his seas of copy, and
slobbering at the feet of his darling “ uppan
suckles” .It would be interesting to know the
grounds on which Parkes wriggled toto the Com-
pany of authors,” unkss the name of the dub was
given on the lucus a non lucendo principle......
A cablegram, which we believe to be a cable-
cram, asserts that the Fortescue has ob-
tained a verdict against Garmoyle for ten thou....
There is a very pretty quarr jl between Dr. Eustace
Pratt, of Tam worth, and Dr. Creed, the editor of
the Australian Medical Gazette. Creed calls
Pratt a champion of irregular practice. Pratt
bluffly declines to conform to the creed of the A.
M. Gazette. Each thinks the other's “ prattle to
be tedious,” and as crude as that of “a pagan
suckled in a creed outworn.” Possibly both are in
the right on that score Mr. Garnett, a Victorian
Crown prosecutor, recently failed to show up at
the General Sessions. The court consequently had
10 be adjourned, and two men in blue found Mr.
Garnett snoring comfortably in bed quite oblivi-
ous of the fact that there was a squad of prisoners
anxiously waiting to be sent up by his eloquence.
Fitzpatrick’s tombstone in the Petersham
cemetery lias no inscription on it yet. Better left
so. He’s worth remembering George Ranken
is the very man to “do” the drought-stricken
districts for the Herald, he’s so exasperatingly
dry John Coldwell, of Goulburn, is dead. From
’6O to ’66 he was one of the representatives for
East Sydney. Made his sugar as a metropolitan
grocer W. D. Bear, engineer, and 3rd officer
London Metropolitan Fire Brigade (33 years old)
selected to be N.S.W. Superintendent of Fire
Brigades Old Dr. Tom Lang’s crossing of the
river took place last week at Hay, aged 74 The
first It. C. priest who arrived in Ballarat was Dr.
Dunne, now of Wugga. He celebrated mass in a
tent a few weeks after the discovery of that gold-
field, 33 years ago... Political trimmers always
land the prizes. Casey’s elevation to the Victorian
bench is but another verification of this axiom.
Casey all through his political career always sailed
with the prosperous breeze, so much so that it
became a standing joke that “ circumstances altar
Casey’s.” Henry J. Hart, one of Melbourne’s
oldest identities, hopped the perch last week....
One Garrick’s opinion of Archbishop Moran is that
he is a “ real hot member.” We yearn for Moran’s
opinion of Garrick. There are odds it is “ loqua-
cious ass.”
* * *
Hangman Binns has turned out a bibulous
bungler, and the sooner he is among the “has
Binns” the better Archibald Forbes made an
LL.D. of Aberdeen (Learned Light Dragoon)
Zebhr carrying on intrigues with El Mahdi's folks.
Just what we would suppose. Can the Ethiopian
change his skin or the Zebhr(a) his tricks?
William Archer has succeeded the late Dutton
Cook as dramatic critic for the London World... .
Viscount Falkland, last of the G.C.H.’s (Grand
Cross of the Hanoverian Guelphic Order) died in
March. He married for his first wife one of Mrs.
Jordan’s daughters, by Silly Billy, and for his
second, the Dowager Duchess of St. Alban’s....
Baptist Spurgeon has dropped in for a big legacy
from the late Joe Pool, oi Leicester—has, in n
word, scooped a pool Michael Costa died last
week; born at Naples 1810; settled in England 1828;
many years conductor Royal Italian Opera (Covent
Garden) and Sacred Harmonic Society; knighted
1869; produced “Eli” 1816, and“Naaman” 1864.
Besides these oratorios he also wrote the operas
“ Malvina ” and “ Don Carlos,” etc.... Beer to bier.
Bass, the Derby brewer baronet, joined the
majority last week. He's now ale fellow well met
with the cherubim. Sir Michael represented East
Staffordshire, and, oddly enough, for a parvenu,
was a Liberal.... The Baron de Worms (M.P. for
Greenwich) means to try to get wife-beaters com-
prised in the provisions of the Flogging Act. A
cynical London journalist wants to see how the
Duke of Marlborough will vote should the Bill get
to the Lords.


QPE R A H
Leasee
Sub-leasee and Manager
Stage Manager
OUSE.
W. J. 'Wilson.
J. B. Polk.
N. B. Jones.
FIFTH WEEK
POLK
POLK FIFTH WEEK.
FIFTH WEEK POLK
THIS AND EVERY EVENING.
MARVELLOUS SUCCESS
of the new grand Spectacular Military Comedy
Drama, EASTWARD HO I
alter weeks of elaborate preparation, and at an
enormous outlay.
EVERYTHING ENTIRELY NEW,
For particulars see bills and future advertisements.
Prices of Admission.—Dress circle, 55.; stalls, 3s.
PIT-ONLY ONE SHILLING.
Reserved Seats at Huenerbein’s. Tickets at
Roberts’, adjoining theatre.
S. GENESE, Business Manager.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Bub-lessee ... .. .. Mr. Wybert Reeve.
THE SQUIRE. 2nd WEEK. THE SQUIRE,
Success ! 2nd WEEK. WYBERT REEVE
THE SQUIRE This and Every THE SQUIRE
Crowded Houses I Evening, Powerful
THE SQUIRE! Still great COMPANY!
Delight I Enthusiasm! Brilliant
The Squire ! The delight and talk Dialogue !
of all!
THE SQUIRE!
“COOL AS A CUCUMBER !”
Mr. Wybert Reeve in both pieces.
Box Plan at Paling’s.—Tickets at Young’s Hotel,
next Theatre. Orchestra Chairs, 55.; Stalls, 35.;
Upper Circle, 25.;
GALLERY, ONLY ONE SHILLING.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musqrovs.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE SILVER KING
THE SILVER KING.
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 65.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 28.
North Shore Rowing Club.
Third annual ball,
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS,
will take place at
NEEDS’ ROOMS (NITHSDALE),
ON THURSDAY, JUNE 5,
Tickets: Ladies’, I2s. 6d.; Gentlemen’s, 215.;
Double, 305., may be had from F. W. B. Love, 99
Bathurst-street: J. S. Davis, 438 George-street ;
W. T. Robertson, 409 George-street; E. E. Brice,
Railway Department, any of the leading shops, or
from
HARRY H. ROBEY,
Honorary Secretary,
11 Bridge-street.
Mr. EDWARD HANLAN, Champion Sculler of
the World, has signified his intention of being
present.
rjp w a
HOURS
A T
H A M E.’
PROTESTANT HALL.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
POSITIVELY ENDING TUESDAY NEXT.
KENNEDY’S
Final Farewell.
THE LAST FOUR NIGHTS.
FRIDAY,
SATURDAY,
MONDAY,
and
TUESDAY.
THE LAS’) TIME FOR EVER IN NEW SOUTH
WALES !
flf” Mr. Kennedy and family return to Scotland
almost immediately.
Ticket holders are warned that the free list will
be entirely suspended on Monday and Tuesday.
Tickets—3s,, 2s , Is.—at Paling’s,
R. KENNEDY, Manager.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Home of Incessant Mirth and Music 1
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and SPECIALTY UNION,
together with the
MARVELLOUS and ASTOUNDING GIRARDS.
Every artiste encored. Whirlwinds of laughter
from beginning to end.
Every Evening at 8. Admission—4s., 35., 25,, and
ONE SHILLING.
Entire Change of Programme on Saturday Evng.
EW MASONIC HALL,
Castlereagh-street.
WORD PICTURES OF PRISON LIFE.
WORD PICTURES OF PRISON LIFE.
For Six Nights Only.
COMMENCING MONDAY, MAY 12th.
Dr. Walter Rodway
Will deliver, in the above Hall, a eoursj of Six
Lectures, entitled,
I.—How to Live on Nothing a Year.
ll.—Our Bastille by Day and Night.
111. Two Hours in the Condemned Cell.
IV. Cupidin Captivity.
V.—“ In the Queen’s Name I”
Vl.—Curiosities of Criminal Life.
Illustrated by a series of new songs, the words and
music of which were composed during
DR. RODWAY’S IMPRISONMENT,
Commencing Monday, May 12, and every evening
at 8 o’clock.
Prices of Admission, 35., 25., and Is.
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
Mr Glover’s Tour will commence immediately
on the conclusion of his engagement with Signor
Ma.ieroni, supported by one of the best companies
in the colonies. See future advertisements.
AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Miss Pauline Bensom
Miss Jessie Baily
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
* Trams leave Bridge-street at 2,2.20,2.40, 3,3.20,
3,40, 4.
The entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
' l ' " 'Nichols ' ~
foite from the establishment of;
Ison and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
Third Annual Owl Club Ball,
PLAIN AND FANCY DRESS,
WILL TAKE PLACE
at the
SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
THURSDAY, the I2th of JUNE.
T. L. CLARKE, Hon. Treas.
(care F. Lassettek and Co.)
MORRIS MENSER, Hon. Sec.,
384 George-street.
D
N
N
G
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
'lhursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
MATRIMONIAL. —Parents and those newly
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
I
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
OFFICES : 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers f °r MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
„ bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Maekay
every fortnight.
DTTWT«nm^rf LI!Kr OF STEAMSHIPS:
gSfrf 1 WABRA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtens, and beautifies the hair- it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes. *
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from anv
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples. &c
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and per-
manent brown or black, whicVi colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros , E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
UMBRELLAS
RE-COVERS
CJ TUDY ECONOMY;
£5 and
Have yourlTmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match oos-
tutnes, Renalm neatly atr.
onto!
ccr
9
1004=,
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTER” COMPANY
Capital, £lO,OOO in 20,000 Shares of 10s. each.
ABOUT 350 PRIZES: £5975 FOR STARS; AND £4025 FOR HORSES.
Plan of .Astronomical Distribution:
First Star ... ... ... ... ... £lOOO
Second Star ... ... i.. ... ... 500
Third Star ... ... ... ... ... 250
Starters (divide) £600; Non-starters (divide) £BOO.
16 Stars of £lOO each; 10 Stars of £5O each; 17 Stars of £25 each; 20 Stars of £2O each; 130 Towns of £lO each.
Astronomical and Township Prizes:
Beechworth
Beenas
Belfast
Bellarine
Belmont
Bel voir
Belleven
Benalla
Bendoc
Beremboke
Berbin
Berwick
Bet-Bet
Bethanga
Beveridge
Big Hill
Birregurra
Black Hill
Black Lead
Black Springs
Blackwood
Blakeville
Bobinavarrat
Boggy Creek
Bolac
Bolvarra
Boraang
Bonegilla
£lO
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
“ ADAMABTOR,” in thanking his subscribers for the liberal support that he lias received from them for the past four years, begs to bring before their notice his Programme
for the coming MELBOURNE CUP. At the suggestion of a number of his clients, he has been induced to lessen the number of prizes, consequently making them of more value,
the smallest being £lO, as against £3 heretofore. My Head Office, for the future, will be in Albury, New South Wales.
All parties are requested to forward drafts or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be added, and in all cases postage fees. Post Office orders and cheques payable to order
will be returned, A representative Committee will be appointed. Results sent to every shareholder. Application, by Registered Letter only, addressed—
“ Care of -A..
EDGCUMBE’S HOTEL, ALBURY N.S.W.


The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any ot its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &c. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing veiy lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
WHERE DO YOU PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
Why, fromthoOßlEN'l'Alv GOLD COMPANY
of course, where they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
from the sterling metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but an expert can detect the difference.
Pee our List, of Prices, as follows, and note that
ANY ARTICLE WILL RE SENT POST FRh-E,
AND AT OtJ« RI »K :
Gent's Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, Is. 6d ■
each
Gent’s richly-chased, engraved, and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d , 10s , and 12s. 6d
per sot
Same as above, only Half Suites. 35., 45., ss. per set
Very latest American patent-spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s. per tot
Cent s Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each
Gent's handsome Scarf Pins, 3s. 6d., 55., Bs., Is. 0d. t
8s , and 10s. each
Gent's elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. Bd., Bs., andlOs.
each
Gent s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs., 10s.
pnd 12s. M. each
Gent's very latest American 18-carat rolled Gold
Alberts (made specially to our order), 17s. 6d.,
20s . 255.. 275. «d , and 30s. each
Choice Brooch and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 355.
Richly-chased & engraved Bracelets, 12s. 6d. to 80s.
Elegant Brooches, beautiful patterns, ss. to 255.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. 6d.,
Bs. 6d , 10s.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides andtassells, 155., 205., and 255. each
Handsome jewelled Earrings, 65., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.,
and 10s. pair ; Ladies’ choice Necklets, from
J2s. 6d. to 305.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to
15s. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps,
15s. to 355.; Ladies' very best American 18 carat
rolled gold Chatalaines. 305.; Ladies’ choice
Lockets and Necklets, 20s. to 405.: Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d„ Bs. 6d., 10s., 155., and 20s.
No. 1.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, witn
Oriental Gold Albert £2 4 6
No. 2.
game as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless
No. 3. '
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tasseils
No. 4.
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless ...
jpgT" These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
No. 5.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert
No. 6.
Ditto Ditto, extra jewelled, and compen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Albert
No. 7.
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Leverr, .
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance .. £5 6 0
No. 9.
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert.. .. .. ..£3 3 0
No. 10.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15 o
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
No. 11.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5
No. 12.
Ditto, estra jewelled, of the highest
grade £5 6 6
* No. 13.
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
fnll jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our watches direet from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
In most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST. ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.—lf the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
j be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
| 474 George-st., Sydney, op. Market t
£2 10 0
£2 17 6
£3 2 6
£4 10 0
£5 5 0
£4 10 0
5 0
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre ROYAL-;* The Silver King” P* 8
oppka House—" Eastward Ho.
9 jtf.tY Theatre-" The Squire .... • • • • ;; • -ib*
Hall—" Twa Hours at Hame ...ib.
Xcapemv op music-Federal Minstrels ib.
“ Eastward Ho!” That is the name of the
that Mr. Folk put on last Saturday
at the Opera House. It is one of the best-
even -nlavs ever seen in Australia, and it is
? l ?| U ol fun. We have laughed before, but this is
f t ull fi At time we ever had to sit on the edge ot our
”edTnd sew on buttons of a Sunday
You can imagine that we had the
™n«pdle.’’ w e had the thread, also-that is, the
rhlpad of the play running through ou r head,
While the needle was running through our thumb.
JXds you would like to know something about
Fel thread of the play ? Well, in a nut-shell, or a
shuttle or something, it is simply as follows :-
There is a Colonel Delmar in England (Mr. B. N.
?l? n pa) who has a nephew, Lieutenant Leslie (Mr,
jemesi, d aSO n, Leon Delmar (Mr. Polk),
Ge vmm- country gentleman. The Colonel wants
musonto wed his niece, Blanche MTvor (Mrs.
K k) All this time the Lieutenant is desperately
v, love with Blanche. At length the soldiers
'“p 1 ordered away to the war in Arabia.
, sn ■far r 8 w 6 have read history,
np h ve^occurred. We suppose the reason that Mr.
unik <rot up a war between England and
because his last piece, An Arabian
vwht ’ was 1 lugh id at by the English “Arabs” who
thioageu the pit. Aftertho Colonel and the
TiPutenantgone, Leon joins a Highland regiment,
ernes away to the scene of action. By some
agency known onlvto dramatic authors,
nianebe and her aunt, Mrs. M’Shane (Mrs. Bryer) are
transported to Arabia, and thef un, and smoke, and
battle begin. * *
Mr Polk, as the Colonel of Highlanders,
looked like “poor Brown.” We turned an opera
odasson him, just to see if his legs had been chafed
glass oLi .j hadn’t. This is probably be-
plusehcbasn'thaaa "wet” lately His legs are
handsome, but w« don’t see any chance ot their
STanded down to posterity, u iless he joins
the Royal household, and takes a tramp through
gpotland in a rain-storm. And we didn t like to
BPehtm fan Blanche with his sporran, waen she
fainted. No wonder the poor girl was so long
coming to.
• • *
We want D’Orsay Ogden (the Sultan) to
whiten his eyebrows to correspond with his hair
and beard. On that throne he looked like a
Colorado beetle on a Giposland pumpkin. And he
talks entirely too much for an old man. He bears
a close personal resemblance to the man who
talked the hinges oh our landlady s hen-coop and
Mole all her chicken*. We haven t looked in a
mirror since. Edwin Lester had a small part to
Xv but his costume and make-up were the most
Arabic we have seen since wo were held for ransom
amongst the savage tribes of Woolloomooloo in
toe province of Myra.
After reaching Arabia, Blanche is taken
nrisoner, and becomes a part of the royal house-
hold The Sultan gets awfully goue on her, and
the way ho togged her out in short dresses and
iewels was simply magaifleent. b ut ..th e confine-
ment doesn’t suit either Blanche or Mrs. M Shane,
who is aLso a prisoner in the palace. So they take
t£ measles and break out This is the latest way
of getting out of gaol, and the easiest.
• • •
Another thing we want to know is, if all
the soldiers in that Arabian war were in the
habit of wearing patent leather shoes ? After all
the carnage and hard marching, the boots of the
entire outfit, Saturday night, were free from
stains of blood and dust, and their red uniforms
Showed none of the smudge of battle.
* * *
The interval between the second and third
acts was so long that we went home to put the
babv a*leep, and when we got back we saw double,
rvvhat baby ? Whose baby ? You wrote ot your
"bachelor tied ” just now. We insist on an ex-
planaticm.—Ed. B.] Hush-sh-sh 1 Don’t wake it
uni Confound the luck don’t you remember we
told you that our aunt lelt her <ad at borne. You
(inn’t suppose we’d take our auntand her kid both
t,? th« theatre do you? Now, don t interrupt
again-Dram. Report. [Rather thin, but, for
goodness sake, don’t use mch horrible abbrevia-
thms as " Dram. Reporter.’ People will think we
employ you to sample rum.— Ed. B ] Oh, no they
won’t They know us too welt to suppose that
we would want a salary for that. Besides, we find
that you nave drained the sideboard yourself
everytime we want a smell of anything good. We 11
use whatever abreviations we want.- Atic Porter.
Tf doesn’t take much to make us see double, in
fact we generally see double as much as anybody
Ice. no matter where we go. This is because our
lindlady wears glasses. 1 here is nothing like a
four-eved landlady to make a dramatic critic see
double! And this reminds us that we live m
Dmihipi Bav and occupy a doub e bed. LThis is too
Such ?Yhk does a bachelor want with a double
bed ? This mystery must be cleared up. We can
have no mysteries hanging about members ot our
staff -Ed. B.] I Too much what? Too much bed ?
There is no mystery hanging aooutit; it is only a
mosmiito-net. Besides, there is Dothiug mysteri-
es about the members of your staff. They are
nil in a very unravelled condition about the
sleeves and the lower end of their trouser-legs,
especially. Now that the bank has suspended, the
probabilities are that they will have to live on
peanut-shells until you got yourself together
We don’t like so much back talk. We
would rather have our back salary.—Dram—-we
mean. Theatrical Critic ] Moreover, we eame
from Dublin.
• • •
Mr. George Forbes has played the Parson
in “ The Strategist” so long that he cant play
anything e'se without being parson-iike. About
two vears ago, we are told, Mr. Forbes
gave a benefit to himself in which he played
Malar Wellington de Bools and wore shoes.
George intended going to England on the
proceeds of the benefit, but he has never
gone The expenses of the entertainment
tooted up £4O even, and the takings at the door
amounted to £4O Is. (id. Saturday night George
fookedas though be was wondering whether ne
would ever see that Is. 6d. again. How he ever
got as far as Arabia is another one of the mysteries
of the niece By the way, everybody who has
seen "Eastward Kol” wonders why Olf-an-Agan
(Harry Power) watches George so closely on the
stave We will explain. On a certain occasion
George got too "declamatory.’ lhis was when
playing the Parson, in “ The Strategist, to Harry s
Terrence O’Flam, Being near-sighted, and ha ving
forgotten his eye-glass, Geor^, whon k ‘; t ;, a k me vl to
the nlftce where he is supposed to knock Mr.
O Flam out of time, miscalculated the distance,
and actually biffed the Irishman in the eye. That
fs the reason Harry Power wore blue goggles
around town for a week, and that is also the reason
why to watches George very closely when the
eye-glass is out of his make-up.
• •
Mr. Russell is a nice sort of fellow, but as
Sergeant Simpson he needs coaching. It doesn t
look well for instance, when a sergeant is handed a
despatch tosceh i in return the salute by smacxing
the P despatch against his helmet as though it hurt
his head and he wanted revenge. And he should
learn to step otl with the left foot first.
Mr. Jones’s voice seemed thick and husky.
We suBDect the cause of this. Mr. Jones, you know,
19 staire manager at the Opera House, and the pro-
babilities are that he miscalculated the <Pjantity of
ijlup necessary to fit up the elaborate mounting" ot
the ne« oieceand had to swallow the remaining
portion of it to keep Sam Genese from growling
about extravagance. Oh, yes! and we had almost
forgotten to mention Signor Bartolomeotti.who
got up the costumes and uniforms. Not that we
care anything' about who did the tailoring, but we
want to tell you a yarn about the Signor. As you
have already found, his surname is a very hard
one to handle, unless you have learned to drink
beer in seven different languages. He can’t pro-
nounce it himself, and the constant trying to do so
when a boy caused him to have an impediment in
his speech, and he grew up a stutterer. One day
after the passing of the Move-on-and-don t-
obstruct-the-corner Act, the Signor was stand-
ing in front of a well-known Sydney hos-
telry talking with a couple of actors, when
a policeman come up and told him to move
on. The Signor didn’t move right away, and the
constable demanded his name. “ B-b-b-b-Bar-Bar-
Barto-toe-toe-Barto!-toe-toe-toe.” He could get
no further, and the “trap,” thinking that Barto-
lomeotti was having a lark with him, ran him in,
and the Signor barely escaped reprimanding.
* «
And now you want to know who wrote
the play. You thought we should have told
you that in the beginning. Well, to tell you the
truth, we couldn’t. As we went over the lines we
saw evidences of such a confusion of authors that
we have been cross-eyed ever since. But that
doesn't make any difference. “Eastward Ho!” is
a very fair play, but Mr. Polk will have to curtail
some of the long front scenes and soliloquies con-
siderably before it becomes a favourite with the
public. There is good material, but it is too long
drawn out. The scenery is of a high order of
merit, and was executed by Mr. Alfred Clint,
assisted by W. A. Wilson, junior, while the elabor-
ate mechanism is by Mr. Charles Lewis. The
mechanism of the last scene is particularly intri-
cate, and when the walls of the palace are fired
upon, the first cannon b ill knocked them all to
pieces, and the blocks of stone (?) totter and tumble
about in the wildest confusion. As we hinted
before, the only weak thing about this scene is
Mr. Polk’s bright uniform and spotless gaiters.
When he comes rushing in to take possession of
the palace, how much better he would look m
dingy uniform, head-gear missing, and hair flow-
ing wildly on the breeze. Then, too, his left-arm
should be blown off at the shoulder, and he should
rush in with the dismembered portion in his right-
hand, and bang the Sultan over the head with the
ragared end of it, just to make the scene look
truly war-like.
* * * #
The “Silver King 1 ’ is still at the Theatre
Royal. Why he should stay so long, is a mystery.
One would think he had money enough to retire
from business, but ho still seems to want more.
We will give him a week’s salary of our own hard
earning if he will kindly withdraw and give us a
chance to write about something else. We have
got some Oriental bank-notes in our possession
that we want to get rid of any way. The thing
that pleases us most is that we worked off a few
on the Silver King on Saturday night By the
way, this burst-up has nearly ruined us. We had
organised a Minstrel troupe, and were to have
started overland for Woolloomootoo last Monday.
It D needless to say that the thousands we lost
have left us sad and shillingless If we ever smile
again, it will be when somebody requests us to
“put a label on it.” We shall never ask anyone to
“ nominate his poison ” after this.
• * •
Maggie Moore is still sustaining the part of
Nolde Denver with surprising cleverness, where
she keeps all the pathos she throws into the differ-
ent scene in which sue appears is one of those
things which “nofellah can find out.” “Com-
parisons are oderous,” as Mrs. Partington says, and
wc are not going to lift the roof off a perfumerv-
factory by telling you why Maggie plays the role
better than But, therel We never open our
mouth without the risk of putting our foot in it.
That’s the disadvantage of having little feet and a
mouth like the fly-trap of a Queensland alligator.
And this reminds us of the Hist introduction we
ever had to an alligator. It was on the banks of
the Alabama River, years ago, when we were
young 1 and fond of travel. We had been out hunt-
ing, and stopped to cook some game for dinner.
Under what looked like a log lying in the sand we
scooped out a hole and started a lire with hemlock
sticks. Then we sat down on the log to wait for
the billy to boil Presently the log began to move
slightly, but we attributed this to the vioration of
the billy. Being fatigued, we were just dozing off
to when there was a fearful upheaval, and
with a roar that made the canebrakes quake,
the tail of that aroused alligator came sweeping
around and struck us just where it would do
the moff good, lifting us about thirty feet into the
boughs of a tree. We shall never forget how that
alligator hopped around that tree on three legs,
bellowing like a mad buffalo and scratching his
grilled side with the remaining foot. But we are
digressing, or lying, or something, and had better
return to the play.
* * *
We should like to be behind the scenes at
the Chequers Hotel when Parkyn (Mr. 11. Seaton)
is giving that long description of the iirst time he
saw the death sentence passed, for the entertain-
ment of Wilfred Denver. About the time ho got
along to when the candle went “ drip ! drip !
drip 1” we should throw a cat at him and burst up
the solilloquy. How he gets through it without
being teased into a laugh by the other members o
the troupe is more than we can guess-and we are
good at guessing. One time we guessed where our
mother hid the Christmas cake. Then we guessed
we would have some. Presently our mother
guessed who had been tampering with the pastry.
Then she organized a small company to play the
touching drama of “Mother and Sou.’ 'there
were only three actors in the cast —a woman, a boy
and a slipper. We played the part of the boy, and
our mother plied the slipper. You can guess how
the thermometer went up that day. But the
play—“ The play’s the thing wherein we’ll catch
the conscience of the * Silver King ’ if he has
any.
o . •
Harry Leston, as the tipsy passenger on
the way to “ Glas-ga,” continues to be a great
favourite. We are reminded just here that the
stage Irishman is always on a spree. Playwrights
seem to think that the only way to get any fun
out (-if Pat is to get him drunk. Pat, no doubt, is
sorry that the whole world are not playwrights;
and we, in turn, are sorry that we are not Irish.
If we only were, we should cultivate the acquaint-
ance of every aspiring playwright who came
along. Old Jaikes (Mr. Philip Day) is so hysteri-
cally funny that the audience are convulsed with
laughter at one moment, and ready to shed tears
the next. His acting is really the work of a master
whose cleverness was not acquired in a day. so
natural does he appear as an aged and warm-
hearted servant, that you wouldn’t know him if
you saw him in the street. We don’t know where
Messrs. Jones and Herman could have found the
original from which they created the likeness of
Jaikes. They must have imagined him, for we don t
believe that such a faithful old butler ever lived on
earth. The one we grew up to know and to fear
wasn’t a bit like Jaikes. You couldn’t have any
fun with our butler. If we bent a pin and put it
where he usually sat down, he would get up and
hunt for us. And ono night, when we put a
branch of hedge-thorn under the sheets of his bed,
he went howling about and got us licked. Ever
since that, when we see a butler, our malice begins
to assort itself, and we want to load him with gun-
powder and run a red-hot poker down his throat.
There are a lot of other people in the
“Silver King” that we could talk about if we
wanted to, but we are anxious to get as far away
from the “ Madding Crowd ” as possible, so we
will leave them to their fate. Oh, by the way, we
have been told that the “ Silver King ” is to be
withdrawn before long, and “Impulse put on
instead. This will probably result in a scattering
of the present cast, as there will be nothing for
many of them to do in the new piece. For this we
shall be sorry. Not that we care a fig about them,
but they have been here so long in the same piece,
that it is like parting with a dying relative, who
hasn’t a shilling to leave you, to see them go away
unhung. * * * *
And we went to the Kennedy’s, the other
night. You have noticed the portrait on this
page ? Well, that’s one of them. In fact, that is
the premier of the combination. We never saw
I such an audience in the Protestant Hall before.
Every last man of them looked as though he had
I been born with a mouthful of porridge, and had
spent his increasing years throwing the caber and
siniring psalma, «r blowing through the wrong
end of a bag-pipe. It is a popular opinion, that we
mean to crystalise into words, that Scotchmen are
brought up on oatmeal porridge and the Shorter
Catechism. or else cat-meal porridge and the oat-
echism. This maybe true to an extent, but we
knew a Scotchman over in America who was
brought up on a charge of murder. And this
reminds us of another man who was arrested over-
in Colorado for eating a sheep's head. It wasn t
his sheep, to be sure, but, asido from that, they
w“re arresting everybody over in Colorado that
year. You couldn’t even kill a man without being
annoyed by a summons. It got so bad, alter a
while, that you would have thought yourself in
Ireland, where they arrest me t on i U'picion—sus-
picion of being hungry.
• • "
We are not going to talk muoh about the
ladies in the audience, but we will say that they
would have been very good looking only for their
faces. And teeth ! Great Cfesar, don’t mention
it. Every other one of .them looked as though it
had been balancing chairs or travelling with a
circus. But you want to know something about
the singing? You have seen at once, perhaps,
that we are not a society reporter. Well, the
songs were all right, but you would have to learn
them before you could appreciate harmony. All
went very well until the old man undertook
to take high B flat. He oouldn’t do it. So Miss
"HAME CAM OOR GUDEMAK AT E'EN."
Helen rushed in to the rescue. She got the note
in a corner, and pounded the life out of it.
Then Thomas ru«hed in and pulled its tail. At
last Miss Marjory caught it by the hair and pulled
it behind the curtain and sat down on it. We
have long wondered at the gallant charge of the
Black Watch at Tel-el-Kebir. We now know all
about it. When the bagpipes got between the
Watch and the Guards, and struck high 8., the
Watch had to move somewhere. They couidnt
escape to the rear, for the Guards were behind
them and the bagpipes. So they made the best of
it, and rushed on the enemy, the pipes following
close in the rear, to drive them desperately on.
That’s how Tel-el-Kebir was won.
• • •
You have observed the portrait of which
we Bpoke. That was taken just as the old gentle-
man was trying to take B flat. You might think
he was calling sheep, or cooeying for a haggis.
Maybe you think he is weeping over the Ewie
wi’ the crookit horn.” He’s not. He s singing,
and if you don’t go to see him before the end of
this week, you’ll never again have an opportunity
of hearing him sing in Australia. And let us tell
you, his singing is a grand sight. You can hear
the young ladies best with an opera-glass.
*♦ * •
What about the Minstrels ? Well, we went
again, only last nigbt, and found another change
of programme. We don’t know exactly who is to
blame for this constant change at the Academy,
but we do know that the public like it. If it is
Smythe’s doing, we can’t help it, for Smythe is the
man who sends us a pass or two about fourteen
times a week; but, if it is Lou. Braham, theie 11 be
trouble, for we’ll blow him higher than some of
the notes he reaches in his solos. Oh, yes; and
Mr. Braham sang a new song last night, entitlea
“ Wake us at dawn.” It beats all what a mockery
life is, anyway. Now we know from personal
observation that Mr. Braham never gets up before
11 o’clock in the morning, and he wouldn t get up
then only his stage-managing duties compel him
to. Fancy him singing “ Wake us at dawn. It
anything but a cry of fire outside his door should
do that, there would be trouble in the house right
away. But, after all, we haven t much fault to
find with the changes at the Academy, only
they make us think of our.lu9k-
the funniest luck of anybody in the world.
For a long time we have real bad luck. Then
all at once a change will come, and it gets
worse than ever. Braham’s changes are alto-
gether different, and that is what makes us think
about our own affairs. The “ association of ideas
is so big in our head, that wo never see anything
that it doesn’t make us think of something else.
For continuation of “ Sundry Shows,” soe page 13.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Lieutenant-Colonel Brownrigg delivered
a lecture to the militia in the East Melbourne
orderly room, a week ago, and its tenor, together
with its effect on the minds of the men, was of
unique significance. Among the general public
who had been accorded permission to attend, there
were, disguised of course, a Zeititjsg special and a
Temps special, so that it is useless for Australians
now to think that the subject-matter of the lecture
can be kept dark. The Lieutenant-Colonel’s topic
was “Tactics.” No subject carries so many in-
sidious meanings as “Tactics,” but when taken in
connection with Brownrigg and the new militia,
the theme climbed to a tableland on which mys-
tery and wonder have their abodes. The look in
Brownrigg’s eyes was a sensational volume with
yellow covers and thirty full - pago wood-
engravings, while the look in the men’s eyes
was a whole library of Newgate entertainment-
The Lieutenant-Colanel asked “ What advantages
have artillery over infantry ?” He did not answer
presently. He gave time for the question to affix
Itself to the hoarding of the men’s intellects.
Never Goes Near a Table Without Getting Mixed Up With It.
Generally Leaves a Party with Several Yards of Trains
Clinging to Him.
The More Easy He Attempts to be the More Damage
He Does
A Nice Young Man for a Very Small Tea Party.
THE AWKWARD MAN AND HIS WAYS.
Meanwhile he wiped his mouth with a white hand-
kerchief. Then he said “ They can shoot farther.’’
That was a point. The Zeituncj man and the
Temps man were profoundly interested. Then he
asked “How many guns should the men have? ’
He paused again, and the interest was increased
when he answered “Depends entirely on the num-
ber of men.” Then he asked “ How far from the
enemy should the guns be posted?” The interest
culminated at this stage, and the nervous twitching
of the foreigners’ fingers as they held themselves
ready to dash down the momentous reply, showed
that France and Germany would soon be in posses-
sion of the invaluable Information. Brownrigg
drew himself up to his full height and, wiping his
mouth a second time, said “ That depends on their
calibre. If they can shoot only five yards, then,
that’s the distance; but if they can kill a thousand
miles off, then that’s the distance.” It is not easy
to over-rate the advantage to Australia of such
practical information as this. But should not the
audience be more carefully selected? Why should
foreigners be allowed to skim the cream off the
gallant Brownrigg’s brains and send it in sealed
jugs to people who may yet be o«r enemies. Why
should they?
Sad news, this. An English paper received
by the last mail states that Colonel Sir R. Caven*
dish Spencer Clifford, the Yeoman Usher of the
Black Rod, is dead. It is well for John Brown
that he is in glory, or he might have been much
vexed at this occurrence. Sir Cavendish should
have been proud to meet Death. Death and he
were both Ushers of the Black Rod. Ail we can
contribute to his memory is an epitaph :
On vulgar paths he did not plod;
He was no common, toiling clod,
Brought into life to hump a hod,
Or tramp the streets, with feet unshod,
And shake at a policeman’s nod.
In royal corridors he trod;
His body lies beneath the sod,
From which, just like a pea from pod.
His soul is shelled (how deuced odd!)—
Don’t judge it with the common squad,
But bear in mind he was, 0 God,
The Yeoman Usher of the Black Rodl
There; that is all we can do for him. If his friends
want more, they had better apply to Lord Tenny-
son. His muse is more expert at a “ melodious
moan” than ours. Ours, we regret to say, is apt
to degenerate from the elegiac into the hilarious,
under the iniluence of strong feeling—and other
things. This may be accounted for by the differ,
ence in the quality of the inspiration. Lord
Tennyson grieves on gin—we grieve on what we
can get: which is anything, from rum to hair-oil.
This variety of liquors may give versatility to our
verse, but is fatal to harmoniousness of effect.
For instance, we are hopeful on hair-oil, and rise
to a spiritual rapture on rum; but we grow de-
spondent and gloomy over diluted tobacco-juice.
As we are on this subject, we may state that there
is no truth in the rumour that Lord Tennyson has
raised the price of his poetry since he was made a
Peer. Cash customers are still supplied at the
same old figure. Elegies ready at a day’s notice.
No menial below the rank of footman immortal-
ised. Commissions to be accompanied with Post-
office orders or stamps, otherwise no notice taken.
This is the way to do it. But wait till you see us
when we go into the poetry business in earnest.
There will be no superfine fastidiousness about
us. Our muse will be ready to wrestle with any-
thing, from a tram-engine to a tarantula. We only
draw the line at snakes.
• • •
The new chum may read this paragraph
with some profit. A man went into the office of a
Sandhurst ironfounder the other day, and asked
whether he knew him. The ironfounder replied
in a prompt negative. The stranger then told him
that he was a man whom he (the ironfounder) had
met on the Newland bridge in Cornwall, and had
casually advised to go to Australia, where he
would find plenty to do. He came to return
thanks for the advice, “ for we quote the local
paper—“although hs has been only six months in
the colony, and arrived with only £5 in his pocket
he is now a partner in a firm dealing in produce’
the profits of which are £SOO per week.” How
much of a partner he did not say. Probably to
the extent of what in the vegetable line he could
reach with a boat-hook when the night was dark
and the yard-dog was asleep. But there is no tell-
ing. We knew a man who started in business with
six-penn’orth of rock-powder and an old flint-gun.
He was a partner in several firms—mostly at night,
too. He died worth a good deal of money. The
predecessor of Mr. Robert Howard was very fond
of him, and stood by him till the last. Pride, of
course, will have a fall. He had a fall of six feet f
or thereabouts. We trust this little anecdote will
convince those who doubt the capabilities of this
country that a little enterprise is all that is neces-
sary here to make a rapid fortune. If we have
made one young man turn his attention from
tract-reading and Sunday-schools to burglary and
horse-stealing, we shall be content. There will
always be a chance of his being hanged, and we
can manage to get a ticket for the show. It is
pleasant to have some amusement to look for-
ward to. W e intended this paragraph to be cheer-
ing to the new chum. We hope it is.
* * *
Attend to this. We hope the people who
talk of the want of culture in the colonies wilj
disguise themselves [in liquor when they read the
following. It is from a New Zealand paper. Now :
—“The principal business transacted at the last
fortnightly meeting of the Mangapai Mutual
Improvement Society was a dog-fight.” But this
is nothing. At a meeting of a Mutual Improve-
ment Society in one of our own suburbs the lead-
ing debater “ plugged ” the president for differing
from him in regard to the relative merits of Milton
and Dante. The other members of the society
took sides. After a brief exchange of pugilistic
repartee, the ringleaders of both parties adjourned
to the lock-up. It is pleasant to think that there
is so much enthusiasm among our young men
over literary matters, and that there is such ready
appreciation in guardians of the peace. Both the
Milton and Dante champions wore beef on their
eyes for a week afterwards. After this, we trust
that we shall hear no more about the rising
generation of the colonies lacking culture.
* • *
A gentleman dwelling at Winburndale—
wherever that may be—lately discovered a beau-
tiful specimen of petrified wood, fifteen feet
under the ground. He is going to forward it to the
Sydney Museum. Perhaps it is a portion of the
head of a prehistoric alderman. This is a varia-
tion of an old joke made by Sydney Smith. But
that is no matter—aldermen have not changed
S'nce his time. A certain percentage of citizens
in every generation seem to be specially con-
structed to fill Town Councils. And it is fair to
suppose that they were just the same in pre-
historic times. But nature is more generous with
the timber now-a-days.
• • •
When we come to remember what a
“frost" poor Moncure Conway proved, with his
third-hand philosophy, we must make a little
allowance for the disappointed sage when he sums
us up:—“After due allowance for the many indi-
vidual exceptions, it is to be feared that the two
A CURE FOR COMPETITION.
A CAPITAL IDEA.
Competition, in all ages—
E’en since labour first began—
Has been cutting down the wages
Of the worthy working man:
Then we ask you, plainly, whether
’Twouldn’t better this condition
If we pulled ourselves together
And suppressed all competition ?
’Gainst this fearful growing evil
Let us bravely take a stand,
Or ’twill play the very devil
With this fair Australian land;
“ Labour ” ought to be the master,
But it loses its position
When it moves a little faster
At command of Competition.
So our duty to our neighbour
As Luscombe plainly proves,
It consists in keeping labour
In the good, old-fashioned grooves;
Then ’twere wisest for the nation
To adopt our proposition—
Namely, keep down population,
For increase means Competition.


absorbing occupations of the average Englishman
(according to Matthew Arnold)—making money
and saving his soul—prevails to such an extent at
the antipodes, as to enfeebie the forces that tend
to build a high civilisation and a beautiful society.”
Even here, you see, our old friend had to draw
upon the intellect of another man (whose lectures,
by the bye, are just about as lively as Moncure’s)
In order to express his spite. Yet we fancy he
pretty nearly hit the mark, don’t you know.
A PHILOSOPHIC DOGGHEL.
There came a party called Moncure,
To lecture in Australia—
Wherein his lectures, to be sure,
Were somewhat of a failure;
So, now that he has gone away,
It scarcely is surprising
That poor Moncure should sadly say
We all want civilising.
But though, when here, Moncure did not
Call forth our admiration
(We even thought his lectures “rot”),
His recent observation
Is pretty clever, on the whole:
It’s venom we forgive—for
To save their money and their soul
Is all some people live for.
Frightful Apparition.
Popular Excitement.
From Information Received.
The Deuce and all.
A DEVIL OF AN AFFAIR.
Dry humourists, the South African
journalists. Most journalists are dry. But this
by the way. An explosion took place at Kimberly
the other day. The local paper, in speaking of it,
says: “ Three persons were killed and others were
missed.” There is an airy ease about this way of
dismissing the question which is particularly re-
freshing. If the explosion had taken place here,
the Evening News would have been full of lugu-
brious details about where the fragments were
found, and how many baskets they filled, with
other abattoir realism. But the South African
journalist simply says they were missed,” which,
when we come to think of it, may account for the
late increase of spots in the sun.
* * *
Thanks to Sir ’Enry, red sunsets, small-pox
scares, &c., Australia is slowly but surely becoming
tolerably well-known to the rest of the civilised
world in general. Only the other day, Barnum
engaged a troupe of Cooktown niggers to sling
sticks and otherwise educate the masses and diffuse
intelligence through the Hail Columbian land of
pop-corn and presidents, and here’s the style of
par. that is going the rounds of the U.S. in conse-
quence: “A party of native Australians, boome-
rang-throwers, arrived here last evening, and be-
fore morning one of them died. The American
climate proved too much for him. The party are |
members of a man-eating tribe of natives. It was !
reported that they tried to make a breakfast of
their dead companion. This is denied, however,
by the man having them in charge. He says they j
only attempted to lay him out according to the
custom of their tribe by shaving off the hair,
tying the arms across the breast, and the legs
under the body.” The only fault we have to find
with that par. is that, from the jump to the finish,
it happens to be a plain, undiluted lie. In all other
respects, it is perfectly trustworthy. Australian
blacks do not eat each other now. Chinamen are
far too plentiful.
* * *
Slightly psychological this time. Most
poets we have known have inherited the poetical
faculty from the maternal side. From the mother
comes tenderness and delicacy of sentiment. She
gives to the young genius everything but a voice.
We have an instance at our hand. An exchange—
the It.lawarra Mercury— contains a poem by
Melinda Kendall. This lady is the mother of our
dead singer. The poem is in memory of her son.
She says:—
“ He was born at the foot of the mountain,
He was taught his first letter in sand;
His companions-mimosas and gum-trees,
And the beautiful birds of our land.
“ To his ear the wild scream of the curlew
Was sweeter than sweetest of flutes;
And the silvery tinkling of bell-birds
More soothing than fair ladies’ lutes ”
This is not a very high class of poetry, but it is
interesting on account of its subject and on ao-
count of its authorship. Further on, the mother
says:—
“ But at last, he is quietly sleeping,
And the present will soon.be the past;
If this thought can bring comfort in sorrow,
All wrong will bo> righted at last.”
And concludes with:—
“ And from thence, like another Elijah,
His mantle on earth he may cast,
To be worn by a second Elisha,
Who will write his grand epic at last.”
We wonder who this will be ? But, of course —D -
B. W. Sladen.
• • •
Gentlemen, you will excuse us for a
moment if we indulge in a muffled laugh. Thanks.
The paroxysm is over—we can now tell you what
we were laughing at. But, read for yourselves—
it is a Melbourne telegram published in the dally
papers: —“ The recent allegations of blackmailing
against the members of the police have resulted in
the removal of some to positions beyond the possi-
bility of receiving bribes.” Now, what does this
mean ? As far as we can understand, it must mean
that certain members of the force have bem
secretly beheaded or removed to the cemetery.
We can hardly imagine any other place where they
would be “beyond the possibility of receiving a
bribe.” And then ? By thunder, of course. The
sound of a trumpet will never wake a dead police-
man. It wouldn't wake a living one, Gabriel
will just have to go around and jingle a half-crown
on the tombstone of every departed member of
the foorce, and the trumpeting will be superflu-
ous. And then we shall not be surprised if some
of them take a bribe to keep out of Hell. Wo
hope they will, anyhow.
There is a happy couple at present living
in the town of Wellington (N.Z.) whose connubial
eccentricities furnish a feast of enjoyment to their
delighted neighbours all the year round. They
own between them two nice little cottages, in one
of which they are frequently seen together luxu-
riating in the sweetest domestic bliss imaginable.
The other cottage they hold In reserve against
contingenoies: nothing in the shape of rent can
tempt them to part with it even for a week.
Although thiß couple have been married for many
years, they may be seen for a week or two at a
time, billing and cooing and making love to each
other, as if their honeymoon were only in the first
quarter. Suddenly, however, and without any dis-
coverable cause, comeß a change; and, all at once,
they begin to fight and make the feathers fly, like
a pair of young roosters struggling viciously for
supremacy. On these ocoasionsjthe language used
on;both sides, on reaching a climax, has been known
to startle a passing bullock-team into sudden and
disastrous activity. Whenthestorm hassomewhat
abated, the wife wrathfully packs up her belong-
ings and carries them into the other cottage, where
she proceeds to make herself comfortable, leaving
the old man to cook his dinner in the slop-bucket,
or go without. Occasionally the war is renewed
in a spasmodic way from their separate forts, and
old boots, dead rats, and other missiles may be seen
flying over the fence from the one cottage to the
other at irregular intervals all day between sun-
rise and evening. Then, for several days together,
there is a dead calm. The separation continues,
but hostilities are at an end—the window-blinds
are down in both cottages, and the neighbours
begin to wonder whether the combatants are still
alive, when all at once some fine morning they
behold the happy pair once more living together
in the enjoyment of the most exquisite domestic
bliss, recalling the lines of the poet Burns where
he sings—
“ Oh, happy life, where love like this is found 1
Oh, heartfelt raptures—bliss beyond compare!”
BRIEF MENTION.
A “smart thing.” A Bee-sting.
All the dryness of the recent drought con-
cencentrated in University Chancellor Manning's
commemoration address.
When the editor of a Watchman consents
to proclaim himself a go-between twixt a “ Zamiel”
coupon company and the public, he deserves
bou. /te-ing
There’s not much to pick after all be-
tween a locomotive and its tender. To be of any
use one must have its engineer, and the other its
engine-near.
Granny, in her description of aTecentrace
day at Randwick, after remarking inter-alia that
a Supreme Court judge was among the spectators
went cn to observe: —“ Blackguardism only was
represented.’!’ Contempt of Court, eh ?
For the last 15 or 16 years numbers of up
country newspapers have been advocating the es-
tablishment of a Government labour registration
office, yet the Rum gives the Premier the credit of
making the suggestion. A Bushman’s Home on
the lines of the Adelaide institution so named is
at o much needed in Sydney.
Simply this and nothing more. Friday’s
Melbourne Argus piteously asks: “Is it not about
time some preparations were made in this jolony
for the Colonial Exhibition to be held in London
the year after next.” This reminds us of the
Holy Howl’s connundrum, “ What aro we doing’
to prepare ourselves for the day of judgment?”
Adelaide! Punch begs to assure the Queen
of his sincere condolence, and so on, not because
he (Leopold) bore the honoured name of Guelph.
&c. Adelaide Punch should know that Leopold
did not boar the name of Guelph. He bore his
father’s name, which was “ Weitin.” Victoria
Guelph becameWettin by her marriage with Saxe-
Coburg’s Albert.
Monday was to have been “a day of hu-
miliation, fasting and prayer” in Melbourne, to
induce heaven to send rain. But the rain came on
Saturday, Did that bowl out the spiritual bombar-
diers? Not at all. They found another text—
‘‘Before thy call I will answer thee’’-and they
went about with their noses up, believing they had
saved the colony.
A contributor to the Suburban Times, in
the story of his experiences as a volunteer at the
recent Windsor encampment, tells us that one
lieutenant in addressing his company gave them
the very stimulating title of “dogs.” His com-
pany should have given the puppy the retort
curteous. If wo only knew the blackguard’s
name we’d publish it in caps.
There were showers of mud the other day
at Bendigo. Cestlemaine, Daylesford, and other
parts of Victoria. The mud was like finely
powdered brick, and it coloured things red. Men
went about with red beards and women with red
noses. Where did the brick dust come from ?
Science is not clear about the answer so far, but
may not the late prayers for rain have knocked a
gable out or thrown a chimney over ?


The English Society journals are in rap-
tures because the Duke of Connaught has stuck a
pig in India. Tney s-iould have seen Dan O’Connor
stick one.
Mrs. Partington can’t see why school
attendance officers are required, since she’s always
been unuer the i.upreosiou that the les absents in-
variably get toit!
The Gympie Times is about to come out
three times a week. This is better than a good
many other Queensland journals we know. It is
as much as most of them can do to come out once
a week; and then they have, generally, to be bailed
I out.
This is the latest jury dodge. Before you
j enter the box adjust a nit of blue ribbon con-
spicuously in your button-h de. it’s ten to one
I the accused isn’t a never-touch-it; and even if he
is, he will have such a true conception of the
breadth and charity of the sect that he’s certain
| to challenge you.
Anne Burke, a designing miscreant, was
i sent up recently by the loyal Dead) of Castlebar
| (Ireland) for three months, for trespass. She was
discovered by the constabulary in a cabin at
Breaffy plotting mischief against the Queen, her
realm and dignity—the cabin from which her
parents had been evicted, and in which the traitor-
wretch herself had been born three years pre-
viously.
The thanks of the community are due to
j the Rum lor giving such accurate information of
Lord Henry Phipps and his wife—we beg 10,00 U
i pardons—lady. Were it not for the Rum’s intelli-
gent flunkey’s special pars, on the subject, the
great majority of the public (who do not read the
shipping passenger lists) would be unaware of the
Phippses’ flittings to and fro -whioh would be a
thousand pities.
“ Month is a word,” said the editor wise,
“And the only one, sir, that l never could rhyme.”
“Ah! ha I you have tried,” the young poet re-
plies.
i “ Ye?, tried it, and tried ft, full many a time ;”
“ A hundred, perhaps ?” the young poet enquired,
j “ Oh. yes, full a hundred a mouth.
“Oh* then.” said the poet, already inspired,
“Just try it the 101 th.”
! The eucalyptus is a curious tree. It pushes
i its roots long distances under the ground to find
i water. The observant well-digger considers this
I very foolish conduct on the part of the eucalyptus.
■ It is in truth very green. Well-diggers never drink
I the water they dig for: that is, they never drink it
byitself. Some people call water a blessing. Well-
! digge r s do not care for an unmixed blessing. We
i have seen water several times: it is nearly the
! colour of gin.
Says Granny, anentthe N.S.W. Permanent
Force:—“lt would be a ttep backwards, not for-
wards, to attempt to govern it otherwise than upon
the strict lines of military discipline.” Quite so,
so long as the lines of military discipline are not
I those of the British service, than which nothing
I can be conceived more utterly unsuited for the
control of troops of a practically democratic com-
munity. The “lines” that should be followed are
those of Switzerland or France.
Story of Major Smith of Ballarat. “I
suppose,” said one member of the Assembly to
another, “now that the Major has opened the
I campaign he will bo followed by a lot of anserous
politicians.” “ Well,” replied the other, “ I hardly
think so. There is really not much to answer.”
The speaker was a Scotchman, and was, of course,
unconscious of his own joke. Ignorance is
frequently the mother of wit. It is a wonder
there is not more wit in our own Assembly.
An essayist writes an article in a New
Zealand paper on ‘Mis-spent Time.” As an
illustration of his theme, the article is a great
success. And by the time the reader has got
through it, he thoroughly understands what mis-
spent time means. In this respect the article is
very much like some of those that appear in our
own daily papers. There is only this difference—
the latter do not give fair warning before they
begin. Hence the growing increase in homicide.
We were very nearly being run over by a
tram the other day. If we had stayed on the line
this catastrophe would certainly have come off;
but we didn’t. One of our golden rules of life is
never to quarrel with a tram. The incident, how-
ever, made us think of sudden deaths. After a
good deal of thinking, we came to the conclusion
that the most ignominious of deaths is t.o be run
over by a hearse. Curious thing, death. A dead
man is looked upon with suspicion if he asks for a
drink.
No wonder the Japanese are so progressive.
A lady living in Hiogo gave birth to five children
the other day. All of them are said to be strong
and healthy. This is what we call enthusiasm.
The father went out and let off fireworks. Japan-
ese lathers are easily pleased. If an Australian
lady presented her husband with such a group of
tokens of esteem, he would be in gaol by this time:
and she would be in the tomb. This is another
example of the difference between Eastern and
Western ideas.
When the veteran veterinary M.L.C., John
Stewart, tells us that nobody is a bit the better
for the University lectures except the University
professors, we can’t help thinking that he ex-
aggerates the inability oi the University to keep
pace with modern requirements ; and when, on
the other hand, the gushing Dailey tells us that
the evidences of the culture of even a few of the
graduates of Sydney University may be seen in
our institutions—in our Courts and in our Parlia-
ments—in the universal dignity dnd refinement of
our publicUfe—vre can’t help teeling that he too is
an exaggerator, and of the two by far the grosser
and more dangerous.
Iu the published details of the inspectoral
investigation into the truth of an allegement that
teacher Gallagher of the Crown-street Public
School was in the habit of getting drunk and had
been arrested for drunkeness, occurs tho following
statement of the assistant teachers:—“ We hereby
certify that we have never seen Mr. Gallagher of
this school under the influence of liquor, nor, up
to the time of the inquiry relative to him, have we
heard that he has been so, that is while in connec-
tion with this school.—J. <>. Crosby, First Assis-
tant; T. N. Hall, Peter D. M'Cormick, James
Donohue.” We take it that there is something
maddeningly unkind in the “ that is while in con-
nection with this school.”
Premier Service wires to “ Beaconsfleld
Conservative Association,” re miniature fleet
offered to English Government when lately hard
up, “ I can assure you that nothing is more pleas-
ing to Australian colonists than the opportunity
such as that afforded by the occas on in question
of”&c. &c. Assuming that the English Govern-
ment had got into a difficulty, which was the only
raison d’etre of the oblation of naval vignettes,
the wire is suggestive of the Hibernian eutangle-
ment of sentiment, “It is with the greatest pleasure,
ma’am, I condole with ye in your sad bereave-
ment ” Service is not Hibernian, but perhaps
that is why his sentences only indifferently express
his meaning and only barely suggest a joke.
Pretty well everyone knows, of course,
that trades unions, even when legalised, are, put-
ting it mildly, “ stood up ” on a somewhat shady
basis, and, therefore, any of the legally-ordained
officers connected therewith may embezz—beg
pardon—we mean “temporarily appropriate ” the
moneys of such institutions with impunity. Just
here, nowover, we would call attention to the fact
[Arroo thair, O’Soolivin] that, under a certain Act
of Edward IV., each of the delegates for thus
sitting in Congress is liable to have his ears cut off
and be branded on the forehead with a red-hot
iron. Now, when we rake up laws as old as the
Pyramids to persecute guileless publicans, why
shouldn’t we give NeddyQuatre a show, and lop
off the auricular appendages of L'l’he rest of
this par. is perfectly illegible.—Ed. B.j
The only repulsive feature about this story
is that it happens to be strictly true and reliable.
It was at an important meeting of a certain civic
c mncil, and Alderman O’Ronnoek, holding up a
citizen’s note, observed: “ lnper-roosin’ thisdocu-
mint, Oi foind that the complainant obzurves,
these repairs must be done by the Corporatioi,
and thin he delibirtly insults the prisint assiinbly
by addin’ th’ Latin quotation, so well known to us
all, ‘Bon gri, malgre.’ “Hold on,” exclaimed
Skeen, “that’s not Latin at all, it’s French.”
“G’lang wid ye now, an‘don’t be exposhing ycr
nateral ignorance,” replied the first orator; “the
sintmee is Latin, as anyone can see, bekase its
underlined. Luk at yer daily papers an’ y’ll see
all Latin words are sit up in oitalyics.” Then
Alderman Skeen trod on the mayor’s favourite
core, and the Mayor winked accordingly.
Mr. Booth, who for some years had charge of
the ostriches at the Murray Dowds station, told the
subjoined yarn the other day to the Victorian
Acclimatisation Society Upon two occasions, I
observed an eaglehawk at an old nest, here there
were four or five eggs. One egg was broken, and
a limestone pebble the size of a pigeon's egg, was
lying beside it, besmeared with yolk. I removed
the ston* and broken egg, and watched the eagle.
He returned and broke another egg with another
stone, but whether he dropped it or used it in his
beak as a hammer I could not make out.” This
action of the eaglehawk with regard to the ostrich
eggs is somewhat analogous to that of A. G. Taylor,
with regard to the nice-laid schemes of Ministers.
He comes around with a pebble in his beak and
perpetrates a mischievous smash with his exceed-
ingly hawk ward tactics, as poor Reid is only too
painfully aware.
If avoirdupois weight goes for anything
in the matter of a “conversion,” then Major
Barker has secured a real prize in Mrs. Whay Fook,
from the Chinese camp at Maryborough. Mrs.
Fook, in fact, represents some twenty-two stone
of repentance, and a large number of Christians,
at sixpence a head, assembled at a Melbourne
“ barracks ” to hear this plump lady “ testify.”
Much to the disappointment, though, of an
audience that had paid their money and expected
some fun for it, poor Mrs. Whay Fook collapsed
under the ordeal, and was only able to “testify”
copious tears into her pocket-handkerchief. Pos-
sibly she was up3et at finding how the Harmy had
“ got at her,” and—remembering that the “ fat
lady ” at a country fair is merely expected to walk
round, and shake hands with visitors—resented the
idea of Ibeing called upon to make a speech re-
specting the state of her soul.
Mrs. Stephen Murphy eonceives her hus-
band has sustained a wrong at the hands of the
officials of the Supreme Court in its equity juris-
diction, and with a fine feminine persistency she is
constantly bearding the Primary Judge with the
foolish feminine concootion that there is some
occult relation betwixt Judges and justice, and
she won't be choked off. Said Primary Judge
Manning to her last week, “I advise you to be
careful, or you will find yourself in a lunatic
asylum ” Now, we take exception to these words,
straight out. A lunatic asylum isn’t a penal estab-
lishment, and oughtn t to be held out by a Judge
as it were in termrem over a woman with a griev-
ance. If she is guilty of wrong, threaten her with
punishment, if you like, Mr. Justice Manning, but
do not bounce her with reference to lunatic asy-
lums, since either she is sane and so deserving (if
guilty of contempt) of punishment for contempt,
or insane and so more fit to be a recipient of the
Supreme Court’s compassion than its brusqueness.
“Is this never to end? Is life to be all
misery, and the rosy hand of hope never to stretch
forth through the murk of destitution, and dole
out the bread and cheese of content ? Must I,
then, settle down to chill penury for ever and
watch the State importation of labour, when what
we want is not labour but repose ? Why should
the Gov’ment bring ’em in in ship-loads to crowd
a man ? What is a Domain made for, and how
long does the Gov’ment think we—the original
owners of the soil and the benches—are to sit here
and see the bread taken out of our mouths as it
were? How long —?” “Move on,” said a blue
man. “ Move on I” roared the Domainer, stuffing
a newspaper round the same old toe, and shoving
a piece of sausage in his hat; “yes, it s time to
* move on ’ when a country is got to such a state,”
and walked thoughtfully over and borrowed a
match from a man reading the Herald, and waR
shortly after seen to fall prostrate, and foam out
“ To trie morgue, to the morgue!” “ What is it ?”
gasped the stranger, lifting him up, and losing his
watch and knife. “Nothing, nothing,” he sobbed,
“ the Oriental—l lose all ’’—and vanished.
The old hats who have charge of the
Sabbath in the South are full of uneasiness and
anxiety. Satan has become unusually active.
Whether this is on account of Peter Campbell
hiving left the ministry, or on account of Mrs.
Whey Fook, weighing 316 lbs., having joined it
does not appear. But he’s kicking up, anyhow.
In one week he inspired the licensed victuallers to
go to Berry and plead for Sunday grog-selling; he
inspired Signor Coy and Mrs. Summers to start
Sunday amusemen.s in the Theatre Royal; he
inspired Signora Coy, Mrs. Cutter, and Miss Nellie
Veiteb, the innocent little mountain maid, to do
the same; and he travelled up Collins street and
button-holed each member of the Ministry and
whispered an inspiration about the vacant seats
on the Board of the Public Library. The old hats
knew him and slated him in the persons of the
licensed victuallers; knew him and slated him in the
persons of the operatic vocalists; and knew him,
but could not, alas, slate him, in the persons of the
members of the Government, and the Board of the
Public Library has now a majority of confessed
Sabbath-breakers. Anxious times, anxious times!
Thus “Zoilus” (of the Wagga Jones)
Junius-tically of Loughnan, M.P “What I
repreneud in you is this : that, conscious of your
incompetency, you sought at our hands a position
which you were powerless to adorn ; that, in your
failure to justify the choice of your constituents,
you compromised the status of their electorate.
To be guilty of the former is an oifence of much
gravity—the latter a crime.”
The Duke de Morny, notorious for his
shameful treatment of the beautiful young Rus-
sian Feyghine, and for his lascivious life in general,
is now engaced to Miss Rothsohild, the daughter
<*f Baron Alfred. She was engaged before, to
James Gordon Bennett, the millionaire proprietor
of tbo N.Y. Herald. The youDg Duke has just
been dreadfully shown up in a novel on the lines
of “ Sara Barn urn,” which moral work, by the way,
is now sold by several Sydney booksellers, but the
translation, although gross enough, is not a circum-
stance to the original. The Duke's father was
bastard son of the Comte de Flahaut and Queeu
Hortense, mother of Napoleon 111. The latter,
however, was born in wedlock, but was universal-
ly believed to have been not the son of his putative
father, Louis Bonaparte, King of Holland, but of
a Dutch General. So that in reality the Prince
Imperial, respecting whose death John Brown and
his cirole were so troubled, had in all probability
not a drop of Bonaparte blood in his veins, and
was a “cock-tail” of no recognisable breed or
strain. Hortense was a notable Faustina.
Oscar Wilde.
Oscar Wilde, whose portrait adorns our
first page, has just been getting married. We will
wager a drink or two that he won t have so much
hair on his head a twelvemonth hence. This re-
minds us of the first time we saw Oscar Wilde.
It was in Denver, Colorado. U. 8. A. while
we were round that way, Oscar was billed
by one of the local clubs to lecture in the Opera
House there for the benefit of that club. On the
day Oscar was to arrive, Eugene Field, the humour-
ist of the Denver Tribune, went down the road
as far as Pueblo to meet him. Oscar had missed
the train; so Mr. Field, being about the same size,
got a long curly wig and a fur-lined ulster, and
came back on the train, representing that aesthetic
celebrity. The committee met him at the station
with a carriage, and drove him about town to let
him see the place before taking him to his
hotel. Everybody stuck their heads out of the
windows, and said “ There he goes 1 That’s Oscar
Wilde I See how he lolls about the carriage !”
Finally, “ Oscar ” requested to be driven to the
office of the Denver Tribune, as he wanted to
speak with his friend Field. When the
carriage reached the office door, a crowd of six or
seven hundred people gathered in no time.
“ Oscar” got up, pulled off his hat and wig, bowed
to the committee men, threw a kiss to the crowd,
and leaped from the carriage. As we had to leave
town that evening, this was the only opportunity
we ever had of seeing Oscar Wilde
Political
Points
The Mttdgee Independent declares that
the premier constituency has set covetous eyes on
the Giraffe. Who could have inspired our contem-
porary with this notion ?
You were prudent, O, Renwick, to decline
coming out for Canterbury. Keep well under the
political extinguisher that discerning destiny
clapped over your wee self some sixteen moons
back, and there’s a chance of people forgetting
what a political duffer you are.
AGAINST TIME.
“ Against time,” very often, men ride, run and
walk.
And their feats some regard as sublime;
Then, wherefore, we ask, can’t a poor fellow
talk
As long as he likes—against Time ?
Sir Henry Brougham Loch, says the Bris-
bane Courier, is “ a man of commanding aspect,
and is connected by marriage with several noble
English families.” Now that ought to be good
enough for a young colony like Victoria ; the
“aspect” arid the “ready speech” don’t go for
much, but being “connected by marriage with
noble families ” ought to endow a man with every
qualification for the position of Governor. We
say it ought to.
The Whitehall Review remarks that
“ we all know how easy it is to construct a charge
of obstruction out of the most legitimate opposi-
tion. Even the public are beginning to see that,
‘obstruction’ is acquiring the meaning which, in
former times, used to attaoh to the word ‘ debate.’
Everything which tends to retard the progress of
a measure distasteful to any section of the House
is stigmatised as obstruction.” Members of our
own Assembly should commit this to memory.
The first Napoleon's theory, that Provi-
dence usually fought on the side of the biggest
battalions, is utterly scouted by the Melbourne
D.T. Speaking of General Gordon, the piety
paper remarks: “The part he is playing shows
that, even amongst the barbarous tribes of the
desert, moral forces are mightier than the forces
which are purely material. Gordon’s bare story
refutes decisively all materialistic theories of
human nature and human history.” Seeing that,
according to latest advioes, Gordon is still closely
besieged in Khartoum, we fail to perceive the
force of the D.T.’s argument, and must, for the
present, continue to stand Nap.
The Gundagai Bailey thus gushed in
behalf Tof Watson:—“Mr. Watson stands as far
above the petty crowd of detractors that assail
him, in probitv and political ability, as the moon
does above the noisy pack of curs that its refulg-
gence provokes into making night hideous with
their discordant cries. Not one of the cowardly,
mean aspersions cast upon him by his sneaking
adversaries can be proved, or ever will be proved.
He has succeeded, and that is the crime that lashes
the envy of his assailants into fury.” To a certain
extent we agree with this rapturous gush. Watson
“has succeeded ”—in proving himself a political
failure of the first magnitude. As for his probity,
we never sampled it.
Here is a little story of the way they
manage things in India that will delight the soul
of a bureaucratic Under Secretary (wo quote Sir
J. Caird’s “ India”)A vill ge which claimed to
pay not more than 1000 rupees as its fixed perma"-
e it assessment, on the ground of a sunnud of a
former ruler, was visited by the collector, who, on
inquiry, thought himself entitled to disregard the
alleged sunnud, and to put the assessment up to 4000
rupees. The village appealed to the courts, and
a decision was given in its favour, against which
the eollectbr appealed to a higher court, and was
again defeated. Upon this, Government, being
beaten in its contention, passed a resolution that
such cases in future should not be tried by the
judicial court, but by the revenue officer! ”
Amongst the correspondence in the excep-
tionally queer conditional perchase case of Mill-
gate v. Hon. John Smith appears the following
too, too suggestive note from Smith ( not the
alphabetical one) to the A.O.M. (alert old man) ol
the C. P. branch of the Lands Department:—“l
have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your
letter of the 6th instant, communicating the deci-
sion of the Honorable the Minister for Lands in
the long pending dispute between Mr. G. F. Miti-
gate and myself, and to tender my thanks for the
continuous attention this ense has received at
your hands.” The significance of this note lies in
the fact that the decision referred to was a mon-
strous one, disturbing in his holding, as it did, a
bona fide selector four years after he had fulfilled
the conditions required of him.
Apropos of the Frau co-Chinese difficulty,
Chinese troops have in the past shown a slow, but
most determined temper. They allowed the
Mahommedan Panthays to occupy a portion of the
South of their empire for years, when, unex-
pectedly, they swarmed upon them and literally
annihilated them. The Kashgar campaign, in the
North, against the Turkish adventurer, Yakoob
Bey, was one of the most remarkable on record.JThe
Ctnnese troops were for years slowly moving
against him. At each fertile spot they would
encamp, and, sowing the fields with grain, actually
“squat” there till the crop ripened, and supplied
them with stores. Year after year they pursued
these tactics, until at length they entered Kashgar
in myriads, and overthrew Yakoob Bey and the
independency which he thought he had securely
established.
Under the old feudal system, says the Bris-
bane Australian in a clever article on the Tories
and the British franchise, the landowners held their
lands from the Crown on the condition of military
service or its equivalent in money. In process of
time, while still holding the land, the expenses of
goverment—of which the chief are the cost of war
and police were taken from the landlords and
placed on the shoulders of the people. The National
Debthas been incuyred for war alone. The charge
on that debt for the year 1882-83 was £29,679,098. The
Army and Navy estimates for the same year were
£31,420,754. Adding these two items, wo find the
total war expenditure for the year was £61,099,852.
The total expenditure of the United Kingdom for
all purposes was £88,906,278. That is to say, govern-
ment expenditure of all kinds, other than naval and
military, for tbn year 1882-83 was only £27,806,426, or
less than a third of the whole expenditure. So the
people of the United Kingdom pay over Sixty Mil-
lions per annum which, in accordance with their
original feudal tenure, should be paid by the land-
lords alone.
At the battle of Trinikat, says the San
Francisco Chronicle, “A number of sheiks, who
advanced empty handed, to show that they bore
charmed live?, were stricken down with bayonet
thrusts.” Think of that and weep I Again, “a
splendid display of heroism was made by the
mounted rebels, who resolutely maintained their
? round against the shock of two cavalry charges,
n the third charge they were cut down, but not
before they had killed several men and wounded
Colonel Barrow with their spears.” So these daunt-
less soearsmen are “ rebels against the authority
of Egyptian curs, who—fully equipped and ably
I led—fell down and roared for mercy directly they
1 smelt powder; and by “ cutting them down” the
Grand Old Man la settling the Egyptian Question.
Why not discover that the miserable Egyptians
are rebelling against the Soudanese, and cut them
down ? It would do just as much towards settling
the difficulty, and—properly managed—needn’t
cost a single British life, nor an ounce of British
powder. The Highlanders might go round, and
after taking the rifles from the trembling hands of
Pharoah’s people, quietly proceed to blow off their
“ historic ” heads.
M. Henri Courmeaux says:—“l am in a
position to prove that a great deal of exaggera-
tion and alarmist nonsense has been spoken and
written on this (the recidivists) subject, especi-
ally in Victoria, the colony least threatened.”
All along the noble band of annexers and would-
be rulers of the Pacific Ocean have been kept in
mind that they were doing nothing more than
twisting ropes of sand. Indeed, it appears that
Australia should make haste to federate and con-
stitute a council for the management of a general
Eolicy, if for no other reason, to save the island
rom being misrepresented in Europe by tne con-
tortions of an unusually windy Premier in an
extremely windy little part of the extensive ter-
ritory. In other circumstances, federation might
be allowed to come at a natural pace; but if it is
to be a matter of frequent occurrence that a man
who happens to find himself Premier of one of the
colonies will have it in his power to cut such antics
in the face of Europe as the Victorian Premier
cuts, and to present all his inane drivel as the
voice of Australia, it is fitting that Australia
should hurry on events, so as to repress such
humiliating idiosyncrasies.
Spanish republicans are making desperate
efforts to get their wretched country free from
the toils of bastard monarchial constitutionalism—
or. as the conservative correspondents of the con-
servative Sydney dailies put it—“ Another anar-
chist plot discovered in Spain : vigorous measures
being taken to stamp out the movement ”;
etcetera end so o", just as though it were anar-
chical to protest against misrule, and to struggle
for liberty. The anarchists of Spain are those in
high place, who pander to the whims of a court
party, the sole aim of which is to live in luxury
at the expense of a down-trodden people.—
Harlots throng the Caesar's palace,
Bastards drain the realm of gold,
Panders drug the royal chalice,
Rank and place are bought and sold,
and the noble, and the honest, and the true, who
conspire to end the accursed state of things, are
branded by Granny and the Rum— such is the
awful grotesqueness of the irony of fate I—as
“anarchists.” Some issues back we gave Alphonso a
couple of years to run, but now, despite his being
backed by the bully of Berlin, we hardly think his
luck will last so long—the less long the better.
Professor Max Muller, lecturing the other
day at Birmingham, referred to what ne called the
eloquent speeches of Henry George on “ Progress
and Poverty.” “It was of little use,” he said, “to
grow angry about the question of nationalisation
of the land, or to bandy hard names. Let them
Study the question historically. Let them see how
the various kinds of tenure of land arose; let them
distinguish, in fact, between them. He had no
doubt that history would show that there were
tenures of land to which originally heavy condi-
tions, such as military service, were attached, and
that many of those conditions were no longer ful-
filled. Even in more recent times history mignt
show that common land was inclosed in defiance
of historical rights. Those, therefore, who had any
regard for the past and for historical rights—the
great conservative party—ought not to be so angry
with Henry George. What, however, he should
like to protest against was the outcry that
George's theories were ‘dangerous.’ He did not
believe it. They all held theories which might be
called dangerous, but which they never thought
of carrying out—such, for instance, as loving their
neighbours exactly like themselves. And yet that
theory was not considered very dangerous, even
though it led some of the early Christians to have
•all things in common.’ ” True for you, Max.
It is now “Horrible London,” “Loath-
some Liverpool,” “Beastly Birmingham,” “Abo-
minable Aberdeen,” “Gruesome Glasgow,” “Me-
phitic Manchester,” and “Effluvial Edinburgh.”
The Public Health Committee of Aberdeen re-
cently reported 30 persons found dwelling in a
single room, and 240 families in 49 small houses.
In the “old town” of “auld Reekie” the squalor
and poverty are said to be absolutely sickening.
At Glasgow, single-room houses are still in exis-
tence. Cooking, sleeping, and everything else
goes on in the same apartment, and overcrowding
is the rule John Bright, in delivering his rectorial
address before the students, startled the commu-
nity by a calculation showing the enormous num-
ber of single-room houses in Glasgow, and Ihe
average number of occupants. “Glasgow” (says
an English paper) “has looked askance at London,
Liverpool, and Birmingham with a kind of “see
what we have done” expression; but, apart from
many old evils which still exist, her efforts at
reform have created abuses of an almost hideous
nature ” How much wiser it would be for Great
Britain to try to put these matters straight with
some of these millions she squanders on the fads of
imperialism, than to be everlastingly cramming
what her blind guides call civilization down the
throats of Bechuanaa, Zulus, Arabs, and Polyne-
sians, who, in the essential decencies of life, are
infinitely ahead of the poor lost wretches who
continue to rot, not live, in her imperial slums.
Touching the Home Rule question in Ire-
land, Jeremy Bentham used to say, “ Only by
making the ruling few uneasy can the oppressed
many obtain relief.” Byron called England’s
union with Ireland, “the union of the shark with
its prey.” Edmund Burke, the Cicero of a century
back, declared, “ Ireland has learnt, at last, that
Justice is to be had from England, only when de-
manded at the sword's point.” The great Grattan
thundered: " When England asks what right have
the Irish to make laws for themselves? Ireland
will not answer, but demands, what right has
England to make laws for Ireland ? From nature
she has none. Nature has not given any one
nation a right over another. Has she that right
from covenant. Let her show the covenant. In
what history is it recorded ? There is no such
thing in legislation.” In 1866 John Bright said to
the people in Dublin: “Years ago, when I have
thought of the condition of irejand—of its sorrows
and wrongs—of the discredit that its condition has
brought upon the English name, 1 have thought
that if I could be in all other things the same, but
by birth an Irishman, there is not a town in this
island that I would not visit for the purpose of dis-
cussing the great Irish question, and of rousing
my countrymen to some great and united action.
And the Grand Old Man, himself, declared, “ Eng-
land never concedes anything to Ireland except
when moved to do so by fear.” After that lot let
us hear no more twaddle about Home Rule being
a question solely of the present day.
Mr. D. C. Maunsel, late private secretary
for Major Atkinson, Premier of N.Z., is a bos t
hand at keeping accounts. During the recent trip
of the Premier and Sir Frederick Whittaker to
Sydney and Melbourne, D. C. acted as treasurer
and paid all expenses, un his return to Welling-
ton, the Auditor-General wanted to know, you
know, whero all the money drawn for had gone,
but the treasurer said he was so ill during the trip
that he lost his reckoning. He did not keep any
bank or cash book, but stored the money loose in
his trousers pocket, and when the Major or Sir
Freddie wanted a bob or two to spend, he jus
forked them out and asked no questions. As thff
explanation did not satisfy Mr. Fitzgerald (the
Auditor-General), he laid an information for em-
bezzlement against the secretary. The “ demniticn
total” of deficiency was at first £4lO Os. Id., but
this was gradually reduced by the production of
vouchers, to about half that sum. Voucheis and
receipts for the trip were, in fact, turning up
daily while the case was being investigated at the
R.M. Court, Wellington, Some of these documents
were discovered in Sir Freddie's bell-topper, where
they had been plaoed to make the beaver fit the
knightly cranium, while others were found stuffed
in one of the Major’s boots, where they had
been put to stop a leak during the Melbourne
visit. As the deficiency was daily disappearing by
these and other lucky discoveries, the case
against the accused was dismissed, and he left the
Court and had a drink at the City Buffet without a
stain on his shirt-front worth noticing.


Don’t Die in the House.— “ Hough on Eats,’
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
flies, ant*, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co, Sydney, General Agents.
Just here we are reminded that we saw
Horace Bent last night. Horace was handling the
bones. We know that he prefers soup bones when
thpv are well-done, but he must have something
to rattle. By the way, Horace has got so used to
Tattling those bones, that his tongue has caught
the infection, and he rattles off soir e of the tallest
varns known to the posterity of the ancients. But
we were going to tell you a yarn about Horace.
Mr Bent is always suffering from one malady or
another. At least, he thinks he is. Every time he
takes a drink or two he imagines that he
has got the cold shivers. So he goes to bed
and orders 45 hot whiskys, while the troupe are
hnrrving through the night’s performance. When
,hev get home, at last, Horace is so bad-so
“ shivery,” as it were—that they cover him up
with their overcoats. One night they put the
whole seventeen overcoats on him, and they have
never seen any of them since. We don’t say that
Horace swallowed them. Not us. We know that
he didn’t, and, any way, he divided the proceeds
with us, and we’re not going back on a pal just as
winter’s coming on. We might want another
overcoat, don’t you see ?
Parkes’ Immigrants.
Alf. Moynham swallowed his foot last
night. He said that he had been bilious for some
time and wanted to tickle up his liver. Sam
Keenan came in, and, taking him for a wheel-
barrow, first fell over him and then wheeled him
off the stage. It is next door to delirium tremens
to see those Girards exercise themselves. Some of
their contortions are so up-side-down like, that
one wants to stand on his head to look at them.
* • •
We would say something about Carroll
the double-voiced vocalist, but we have already
made him so proud that he won’t speak
to us in the street. All that he wants is a
few feathers and a red top-knot to make
him the boss peacock of the whole barn-
yard. Now that it occurs to us, we are going to
tell you something that nobody knows but us.
Did you ever notice how funny a man gets when
he “blacks” up? A man may be as sober as a
gallon of vinegar when he is off the stage, but let
him black up with burnt cork, and jokes ooze out
of him like crabs when the tide goes out. You
wouldn’t believe it, perhaps, but we always black
up before we sit down to write. We discovered
that the more we had to do with tho cork the
funnier we got. One time we got so very funny
that our landlady hung us out on the clothes-line,
nd the wind blew us inside dut.
* * *
Fred. Hiscocks is still smiling away. Like
Bam Genese of the Opera House, he doesn’t care a
fig how many Banks break so that the people
crowd his house. We would give anything
for Hiscocks’ smile. It is so warm and
genial that we are sure it would make a good
overcoat. And this reminds us of the winter
we were in Wisconsin, when the thermometer went
down to 45° below zero, and we were without an
overcoat. But necessity is the mother of inven-
tion. (We’re going to call our mother Necessity).
That’s what made Hannibal fertile in exploit and
expedient in command; that’s what made Napo-
leon scale the Alps, and mingle the eagles of
France with the eagles of the crags; and that’s
what made us get an ulster. You see, Wisconsin
is a great butter-making State. The Germans
mostly make the butter over there, and they are
not so clean ahout it as they ought to be. So we
bought a few rolls and spread them out, about a
quarter of an inch thick, on a table, and Jet it dry.
In the morning, we had one of the finest blankets
ever seen in the States. It made a good ulster, and
we were happy. But there comes that confounded
“ devil ” yelling for copy, and we must ante-up, or
We’ll be too late for “ The Squire.”
• • •
You know “ The Squire ” is on at the
Gaiety. We told you last week who “The Squire ”
was. You have forgotten ? Well, we’ll repeat.
It is Maggie Knight who p'ays the Squire. Maggie,
you see, is the last of the race of Yaritys, a good
old English family, who were descended from
Adam. Some people are doubtful about their
ancestry, but Maggie is not. She can go back 4000
years and put her finger on the man who started
er family in the human race. Most of them have
been-tlat racers, but Maggie is a hurdle-jumper.
This is owing to the many lifts wo have given her
a id the “ rises " wo mean to take outof her as the
years roll on. Maggie gets into a lot of trouble
s the Squire, and she takes you along with
h'-r in such a realistic manner, that you want to
get right up and lift the roof off the meeting
houso. But away with Maggie and her misery.
We are bursting to tell you a story about James
Carden, who plays Gilbert Hythe. One time Mr.
Carden lived down in Melbourne, next door to a
man who had a great reverence for birth and
blood. The neighbour got to talking to James
over the Carden wall, as it were, and “Jim,” as
the “ pros.” call him, stuffed him full of lies. The
biggest one he told him was that he was the son of
Sir James Carden, of Ireland. This got into tbe
papers. It so happened that Sir James had several
sons, one of whom was in Australia at the time,
very hard up. He wrote to the professional
.Tames, calling him “dear brother,” and request-
ing a little aid. The poor fellow really supposed
that his younger brother had come out to Aus-
tralia just like we did, to see the country,
and have fun with the folks. But the actor
didn't answer. In the Arst place he didn’t know
what to say, and in the next he hadn’t anything at
hand to “part,” except his hair, and he couldn't
spare that It was spare enough already. Years
afterward the genuine Mr. Carden fell heir to an
estate of several thousand pounds. This also got
into the papers, and the actor called on him,
claiming relationship. The real Carden got right
up on the end of his vertebne and denounced
James as a pretender. You don’t see any fun in
this, perhaps, but If you heard Carden tell
about ft you would feel like taking a walk through
a cemetery to cheer you up.
* * *
You ought to see Mr. Coleman in the
scene. Whe he comes on, you dis-
cover at once that he has been drinking too much
ginger-beer, or something, and you involuntarily
want to rush up to support him. He is the funniest
man in the whole outfit; and those who know him
are only sorry because he isn’t drunk all the time.
Tho attendance at the Gaiety is not what it ought
to have been since “The Squire” was put on the
boards. It is a piece really deserving of liberal
patronage, or we wouldn’t say so. Am 1 , after all,
we don’t know that we have said so.
** * m
The Majeroni troupe arrived from Bris-
bane on Monday, and have gone on to Melbourne
to play their repertoire over again. We under-
stand that Mr. James Allison has served an injunc-
tion against Bignor Majeroni to keep him from
playing “ Fedora ” Mr. Allison claims to have
purchased the right of the play; and, from mem-
bers of the oompany, we hear that “he’s more
than half right.”
Sir Arthur Gordon has been playing a
heartless little game at Fiji. If all said about him
in Melbourne be correct, the British Government
should re'egate him to obscurity at once. It
appears impossible to get him to understand what
is genuine, commercial, and philanthropic enter-
prise; and when, by dint of persistent driving at
him, it is hoped he has focussed the point, he
turns on the commercial philanthropists, and with
official courtesy, dubs them swindlers. In the
good old days before annexation, a lot of Mel-
bourne men put their heads together and induced
King Thackambau to cede a large slice of hisierri-
tory to them for—of course, a,valuable considera-
tion. These men called themselves the Polynesia
Company, and on the directory were such irre-
proachable names as W. B. Jones, L. L. Smith, H.
Hoytt, B. Marks, and G. K. Johnston. Now
when Great Britain annexed Fiji, the newly*
born Government refused to know the e.
bourne Josephs—in« as far, at all events,
as the major part of this ceded territory
was concerned. And Sir Arthur Gordon not
alone spurned their claim, but passed a special
ukase du uig his autocratic reign precluding rhem
from br nging their claims before the Supreme
court >»t . jji And then he gav e valunblu oiocks
of land in Suva, “th) property of this company,”
over to Government officials. All this was rough
on the part of Sir Arthur, but what was worse
w .a that when the company appealed to the
Colonial Office the replies from that quarter were
mist unsatisfactory. What remained to be done;?
Well, Mr. W. B. Jones has been forwarded to
London to lay the matter before Earl Derby in
Serson, and the directors, who held a meeting in
[elbourne lately, are sanguine that when Eirl
Derbv lias listened to Jones for half an hour he
will discredit and disrate the unjust Sir Arthur
and will r ituy the compact made in the d ys of
darkness between the shrewd southern Smiths
and the child of Nature, Thackamban.


The Referee.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The Malone has challenged O’Brien to run
half a mile ior £5O.
Williams is on the war path again with an
attempt to walk 1500 miles in 1000 hours.
It is stated that J. Wineke, at Ipswich (Q.),
on St. Patrick’s day, cleared 37 ft. 6 in. in three
standing 1 jumps.
The Victorian Amateur Turf Club has
given forth that the nextlCaulfleld Cup will be a
handicap of 2000 sovs.
Forty shillings and removal froth the
grounds, the penalty for riding bike or trike in
Hyde, Phillip, or Cook Parks.
In Melbourne, a Tasmanian gentleman
named Mullins has challenged “ Micky ” Allbrook
to a glove fight for a £2O trophy.
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron has
received an addition to its ranks in the shape of
the Rita, owned by T. Henderson, junior, of Auck-
land.
Just after the Cham-
pion Race, a select
little knot of turfites
were disoussing things
in general, when a Mar-
tini-Henryorank offered
to lay £5OOO to £2500 that
the New Zealander beat
Le Grand in the Sydney
St. Leger. The Queens-
lander's owner booked
the bet, and subse-
quently there was joy in
the house of Wallace.
• Scots wha ha’ wi’ Wal-
lace bled” is now a
stale connundrum. It’s
Wallace that bleeds the
Scotchman. Fact. A son
of Scotia laid the above
wager.
They tell this tale
of the Sydney Cup in
the land of the alliga-
tors:—“Mr. H. Bracker
was dining at an hotel
in Toowoomba some
short time ago, when a
gentleman sitting op-
posite to him, asked
him which horse he
thought would win the
Sydney Cup, and he re •
plied, ‘ Favo,’ which
created a little merri-
ment, and the waitress,
Julia Power, who was
attending upon the
table, put the name
down, sent E E. Jones
£1 to back Favo for
her, and received in
return this week £3l
and a polite note, in-
timating that her letter
was the means of wak-
ing E. E. Jones up to
the doings of Favo,
which he quietly backed
to win him £7000.”
Polite Mr. Jones. Lucky
Julia. More power to
her symmetrical little
elbow.
The articles for the
Hanlan - Laycock race,
on the Nepean, for £5OO,
stipulate that the event
is to come off on the
Nepean course, from
near the Gorge to the
Bridge, on the after-
noon of Thursday, May
22, and the distance will
be 34 miles. The start
is to be by mutual con-
sent ; but if not made
within 15 minutes after
the men are at their
posts, the umpire will
start them by signal.
The race is to start at a
quarter to 3 o.’clock ;
and if only one competi-
tor comes to the start,
he will be entitled to the
stakes, no matter from
what cause the other
man may be absent.
In the event of the
river being unfitted by
reason of flood or
drought, the umpire,
Mr. J. P. Clark, has the
power to postpone the
race, but not the power
to choose another
course. Several other
races have sensibly
been added to the pro-
gramme, some of which
should prove more in-
teresting tthan the so-
called contest for the
championship. The
prizes are liberal, and as
the various events will
no doubt fill up well,
lovers of aquatics may
look forward to a good
day’s sport. A big mis-
take was made in the
first instance in not
framing the affair on
these lines, in place of
attempting to change
our champion course
from the Parramatta to
the Nepean.
The Victorian horse, The Agent, has rather
n history. Four months ago he was running in a
buggy, since when he has won 13 races out of 18
starts.
At the Newmarket (Eng.) Spring meeting,
the Two Thousand Guineas, run for on the 30th
April, resulted in a win for Scot Free, St. Medards
second, and Harvester third.
Terminus, of throat-cutting notoriety, is
still to th« fore. At the Hillston races, on the
second day he won the Rain Race and ran second
pi the Newmarket Handicap.
Beach, the sculler, recently played in a
cricket match at Dapto, but did not prove as big a
success with the willow as the sculls, as he was
caught off the first ball he received.
A cable states that a cricket match has been
arranged between the Australian Eleven and the
Birmingham team, to be played on the Birmingham
ground, commencing on the 26th instant.
The English old-time jockey, Sim Temple-
ton, is dead, at the age of 79 years. He won the
Derby on Bloomsbury in 1839, on Cossack in 1847,
and Surplice in 1848, and the Oaks and St. Leger
were among his victories.
The Yassites are making big preparations
for their pigeon matches on 23rd and 24th May.
The handicap sweepstakes of 8 sovs. each with 80
sovs. added will be shot for on the first day, and on
the seoond Mr. Owen Friend’s 25-gulnea cup will
be competed for.
At the Maffra (Vic.) raoes on Wednesday
week last, the Maiden Plate, one mile, was wrongly
started from the mile and a quarter post, and was
won by Ladybird, Scud second. The horses were
afterwards run over the proper course, when
Scud beat Ladybird easily.
un Saturday, the 19th March, Williamson’s
Opera Company, then at Wellington (N.Z.), played
a oricket match wi.h the local Amateur Dramatic
Club. The latter scored 35, while the former got
no less than 177 for three wickets, Fordo scormg
101 (not out) including an 8 and several 6’s.
In fair-play England, when Ross was de-
feating Bubear, a vast crowd lined the tow-path
from start to finish, but not a sound was heard,
not even a funeral note at the death of aquatics
in England. Had Bubear won, even with the dis-
grace of lOsec. start, the crowd would have bawled
themselves hoarse.
The following programme has been fixed
upon by the Jerilderie Jockey Club for their
annual meeting First day : Maiden, £2O ; Dis-
trict Purse, £2O ; Jerilderie Jockey Club Handicap,
£75; Flying Stakes, £l5; Bel!ing Stakes, £2O.
Second day : Railway Stakes, £2O ; Hurdles, £3O ;
Ladies’ Gold Bracelet, with £lO added; Selling
Race, £lO ; Forced Handicap, £2O.
Mr. Lee’s Woodlands Estate, near Bathurst,
must now be well stocked with deer, as no less
than forty or fifty have been seen in one flock.
THE LOTTERY QUESTION.—Whore the Police DO Interfere.
X 91: “It’s a misdemaynor ye’re afther committin’. Ye’ve raffled that flower for twinty
toimes its value.”
Mr. MASHER (for the defence): “Ah, but she kissed it first, and made it priceless.”
They suffer from poachers, who shoot them merely
for the antlers and head, and leave the carcases to
rot. It will no doubt be a “ deer” day’s work if
they are caught red-handed. We don’t claim this
goak. We resign it cheerfully to a Bathurst paper.
A couple of weeks ago, we stated that
the course over which tiie Yankee amateur
walker, F. P. Murray, did such alleged fast time
was a long way short. The referee has now ac-
knowledged that he allowed Murray to walk un-
fairly as ne “regarded the walk as a mere exhibi-
tion on his part, and tacitly consented to a viola-
tion of the rules, and that he was informed by the
secretary of the Boston A C. that Mr, Murray 's ex-
penses were to be paid and the handicap arranged
for him to win.” Queer amateurs in the States I
Says Donald Dinnie in a letter to the Mel-
bourne Spoktsman:— " Scotchmen do not need to
invent a style to suit themselves, as they have
always been able to beat Englishmen at ‘go-as-
you-please’ wrestling, or fighting, or general
athletics. ‘Deeds approve the man/” There was
no occasion for Donald to make a distinction be-
tween a Scotch fight and a go-as-you-please, for,
when a couple of " scuts ” start a fight, it is a go-
as-you-please with a vengeance, composed chiefly
of gouging and throttling, with the occasional loss
of a leg or a nasal organ.
In place of Lord Falmouth, Lord Gros-
venor, and Count Lagrange, the English turf has
no new comers to register. The Dowager Duchess
of Montrose is merely taking over in her own
name, or rather in that of “ Mr. Manton,” which
she has chosen as a transparent pseudonym, the
horses which laßt year ran in the name of Sir
Frederick Johnstone. Captain Machell has under-
taken the difficult task of “managing” them for
her, and if he succeeds in doing so to his own
satisfaction as well as to hers, he will assuredly be
the hero of the season 1884.
J. White, an Adelaide lad, has challenged
B. Murphy to walk from two to ten miles, for £25
a side, Murphy to receive £5 fGr expenses if he
goes to Adelaide. W. Hanlon has challenged
young Franks for a two or four mile walk for fifty
ora century aside, to come off in Ballarat. He js
two years older than Franks, and states he is
willing to concede 60 yards in two or 150 in four
miles. The Nooze made a huge goak out of this
challenge, but as the lad in question is named W.
Hanlon, and the sculler is Edward Ilaclan, we
don’t exactly see where it comes in.
But for the engineering skill of the mem-
bers of the Wilcannia Boating Club, they would
have been unable to hold their annual regatta this
year, on account of the scarcity of water in the
river. The difficulty was got over by picking a
likely spot and constructing a sand-bag dam, by
which means they succeeded in obtaining a rise of
17i inches, which backed the water up for some
three miles. The racing passed off satisfactorily,
and we think it is only fair to Mr. Waldron to
state there are probably few of our metropolitan
oarsmen who could beat him—in a crab-catching
match.
A Volunteer encampment was held in Wel-
lington (N.Z.) at Easter, and does not appear to
have proved a great success, according to the ideas
of the Wanganui men present. Wanganui has an
annual encampment, followed by a ball—Welling-
ton had no ball. As the steamer containing the
Wanganui men moved from the wharf, those on
board gave “three cheers for the encampment
ball,” " three cheers for the moat that was crawl-
ing,” “ three cheers for the tea we didn’t have.”
The emotion of the Wellington olhoers assembled
on the wharf (to quote Mark Twain) would have
brought tears to the eyes of a cast-iron dog.
At Herbert on, (Q.), District Court, a Mr.
Towner recovered £l6 13s. 4d. from the treasurer
of the Wild Kiver Jockey Club, amount advanced
by him to meet the liabilities of the annual race
meeting of 1883. It appears that at the settling at
the race meeting in question, the Club had a deficit
of funds, to meet which six members gave a pro-
missory note, which the Club promised to take up,
but which was dishonoured, and the signatories
had to ante-up. Towner’s share was £l6 13s. 4d.
for which he obtained a verdict. There was no
quorum at the original meeting in 1883, and the
verdict would probably have gone with the pre-
sent committe, if they had not given themselves
away by previously offering to pay Towner 10s. in
the pound.
“Like father like son,” is a truthful pro-
verb when racehorses are in question. Scott Free*
whose victory in the Two Thousand Guineas was
cabled last week, is a son of the great Macgregor,
who pulled off the same event in 1870, when making
his debut before the public. Macgregor’s was the
hollowest victory ever known, and as he followed
it up by winning the Bath Biennial in a “walk,”
the “ books ” took fright, and the bold Mac. se-
cured an undying notoriety by starting at five to
two on for the Epsom Derby. That he was a
broken-dewn horse, when he started and finished
“nowhere ” to Kingcraft, is a matter of history—
it remains to be seen whether Scott Free (a par-
ticularly well-named horse, being out of Celibacy),
can redeem his progenitor’s defeat. It is worthy of
note that Macgregor, and most of his stock, have
very upright pasterns, a peculiarity that ill adapts
them for coming down the steep hill at Epsom. It
is still more worthy of note that Lord Falmouth’s
horse, Harvester, came in third to Scot Free—the
same position that Kingcraft (also the property of
his lordship) occupied to Macgregor, previous to
turning the tables in the Derby. And, singularly
enough, Lord Falmouth’s other Derby winner,
Silvio, also secured third place in the Guineas.
His horses are never hurried in their preparations,
so there «re more unlikeiy things than Harvester
improving on his recent performance and securing
the Blue Riband of the Turf.
Showery weather
and small attendances
at both days of the
Glen Innes annual race
meeting. Butcher Boy
won the first race of the
meet, the Hurdles,
Chance coming to grief
at the first hurdle. Fair
Ellen won the Maiden
Plate in a canter from
Eileen and Clove, who
ran a dead heat. The
Willow won the Flying
Scurry; Chelsea carried
off the Gough Handi-
cap ; and The Infant
won the Ladies’ Souve-
nir. On the second day
Town Time won the
Trot; Shamrock had a
walk over for theLadies’
Mile ; thirteen horses
sported silk for the
Autumn Gold Cup, won
by Rajah from Mick,
Chelsea third; Jack of
Clubs annexed the Rail-
way Handicap ; and
Mick finished up the
meeting by winning the
Beaten Handicap.
After the Ross-
Bubear race on the
Thames, some interest
was aroused by a
double-sculling match
between D. Godwin
and G. Perkins, who
had accompanied Ross
in his practice, and C.
and T. Gibson, who had
performed a like duty
for Bubear, between
Ham m ersmith Bridge
and the Creek. The
first-named pair, who
conceded 6 sec., were
made favourites, and
the result was never in
doubt, as it was appar-
ent before they had
gone a quarter of a
mile that Ross’s atten-
dants had matters en-
tirely in their own
hands, as they quickly
drew up, and finally
naddled past the post a
length in front. The
winners have since
thrown out a challenge
to double-scull any two
men in the country for
£lOO a-side.
He made one of the
late Synney Interco-
lonial Eight, and while
in Melbourne the other
members of the crew
subscribed a bob each
for the purpose of his
taking a lesson in the
“ noble art ” from a
oertain Cabbage Garden
“Professor.” Now, the
gentleman we refer to
is about the smartest
amateur set-to it has
been our lot to see per-
form, notwithstanding
a bland and childlike
manner and appear-
ance. The Professor, as
per usual, at once ad-
vised his pupil not to
stand right hand in
front, as he left him-
self so completely open
that a man with any
science could kill him
were he so inclined. The
lesson proceeded quietly
for some time, when the
oarsman made play,and,
to the astonishment of
the “Professor,” belted
him most unmercifully
round the room. The
Professor was more
than satisfied, and at
the termination of the
bout said if he got hold
of many such pupils it
would be about time
to relinquish his “pro-
fession” or order his
coffin.
Donald Dinnie, the Scottish athlete, was
born at Aboyne, Aberdeenshire, Scotland, on the
10th of July, 1837. He stands 6 ft. 1 inch in bia
shoes, weighs when in fair condition 13 st. 13 lb.;
measures round the chest 48 inches ; biceps 16M
inches ; thigh, 26J4 inches ; calf, 17J4 inches. Next
week we shall give the oiroumferenee of his—big
toe and its other dimensions to a fraction; mean-
time the above particulars will be of great service
to a world hungering and thirsting after similar
information. Donald is a splendid specimen of
mature manhood. He takes the world very easily.
Nobody ever saw Donald in a hurry oi quarrelling.
He is, in fact, a decent, good-natured Scotchman,
with a tremendous lot of latent force stored up
ready for use when wanted. Dinnie first per-
formed at athletic gatherings when he was 16
years old. so that he has been upwards of 30 years
putting the stone and tossing the caber. He has
wod over 6000 money prizee in his time and has as
many champion medals as would plate a man of
war from stem to stern.
The Warrnambool (Vic.) races came off on
29th and 30th April and Ist May, with the following
reeult*: Birst day. Autumn Stakes: Stafforc,
Shepherdess, Tell Tale. Junior Steeplechase:
G lderoy, Benyenong, Compensation. Handicap
Hurdles : Sir Patrick, Fugitive, Wando. Flying
Stakes: Skipper, Ace, Little John. SelliLg
Hurdles: Devlin, Greyfish, Cleolite. Second day.
A.T.C. Plate, lMj mile : Douglas, After Dark,
Slander. Hurdle Race: The match between Fugi-
tive and Fairlight was won by the former. Brace-


SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to home this index potted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.!
RACING.
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14,15.
jj May 15,15.
South Australian J.C May 10,15,17.
Canterbury Park May 17.
Albert Goldfields May 21, 22.
Bourke May 22, 23, 24.
Sydney Turf Club May 24.
Newcastle J.C May 24.
Queensland Turf Club May 24, 26.
Richmond J.C May 29.
Liverpool May 31.
Mudjrotfß.C June 4,5.
Coolaft : June
Coonamble June 18,19.
Clarence River J.C July 9,10.
Rockhampton J.C July 10, 11.
Hawkesbury August 21,23.
AQUATIC.
Brett v. Wood May 10.
Mathieson v. Nichols May 10.
Guliford (301 b.) v. M’Clerken May 17.
Glebe R.C., Senior Pair Oars May 17.
Hanlan v. Laycock and others, on the
Nepean May 22.
ATHLETICS.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports May 17.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 24.
Royston College Sports May 21.
Casino £3O Handicap May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 26.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap, £3OO May 26.
Queen’s School Sports May 28,
Sydney Grammar School Sports.. ...a May 31.
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10.
N.S.W. Cyclists Union Association, Cricket
Ground May 24,
THE GUN.
Yass Pigeon Matches May 23, 24
Giticura
S'JTO;
020
v\-
as
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE GURE
FOB EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
-r"
Scrofula on neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
i<iieum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Ememia, Pyemia,Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Purl-
fler, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays ItchiDg and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh 1
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from CcTicuuA, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o -easy Skin.
Cutlcura Remedies, are absolutely pure, anu
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per bsx, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 35 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 ceDts; Cuticuua Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prr pared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.B.A.
THE GOMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
(LIMITED),
Caterers to the JL. J.C.
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOB BALL SUPPERS. HAMPERS FOR PICNICS, RACE, AND OTHER
PARTIES SUPPLIED. SPACIOUS BANQUETING HALL, UPSTAIRS.
PERSONAL SUPERINTENDENCE GUARANTEED. WELL-APP INTED BAR,
Luncheon and Smoking Lounge. All Goods are Guaranteed of the very best Quality and Description.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, General lYanager.
TTT’iilEQ.ore’s Palace Hotel,
(LATE v COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coifee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
MAKE
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST ROOFING KNOWN.
It is light, ornamental, cheap, and durable. Is used, and very
highly approved of, by the English Government Departments and
by the Royal Engineers.
References given to Sydney architects and builders by whom it has been already used
wtth unqualified approval and success.
AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION OF 1878.
Before using any other roofing material, call and inspect the above at
TOZER «Sc, CO.,
287 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt.street
JsgT’ The PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT is under the management of Seno
ALBERTO E. GELSMARDO, from Paris, decorated with the Gold Legion of Honor-
(Professional Glove Fitter to the hand). The Department is fitted out in the Continent al
style, and Ladies and Gentlemen can now have their Gloves fitted on at the counter as
done in Paris. This excellent plan of fitting Gloves is commanding a thorough appreciatio n.
THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
Prices guaranteed the Lowest in the City.
KID GLOVES of all descriptions in the latest style
KID GLOVES fitted to the hands without extra
charge
KID GLOVES from 2 to 30 Buttons
KID GLOVES, Mosquetaire style, 8 Buttons length,
4s. 6d.
KID GLOVES, Mosquetaire style, 10 Buttons
length, Suede, 4s. per pair
KID GLOVES, Sarah Bernhardt style, Suede, 4s. 6d.
best quality made, 6 Buttons, 6s.
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 0 Buttons, 4s. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 4 Buttons, 5s
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 4 Buttons, 3s. 6d
per
per pair
KID GLOVES, Josephines, 4 Buttons, 3s. 6d
pair
KID GLOVES for Gentlemen, walking, 4s. tld
per pair
KID GLOVES for Gentlemen eveninr, 4s. 6d. and
ss. per pair
KID GLOVES for Ladies, Kid Gauntlets, 3s. to 10s
per pair
KID GLOVES for Ladles, Gauntlets, velvet tops
KID GLOVES, fur tops, Gauntlets, lined P
KID GLOVES for Misses, in every variety.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 mT-STREET, SYDNEY,
et Stakes, IJ4 mil® : Stafford, Trent, Douglas.
Veteran Stakes: Argus Girl, Wanda, Gilderoy.
Visitors’ Trophy, 1 mile: Stafford, Denmark,
Barley Bree. Flying Stakes, 6 furlongs: Tell Tale,
Highlander, Thurza. Third day. Trial Stakes:
Insolvent, Jim Scandal, Little John. Handicap
Hurdles: Banker, After Dark, Sundowner. Han-
dicap Flat Hace: Skipper, Irralee, Trent. Warr-
nambool Handicap Steeplechase: All Serene,
Union, Governor. Selling Flat Race: Barley Bree,
Little Nell, My Lord. Selling Steeplechase: King
of Trumps cantered the last round alone.
At the Sydney Amateur Athletic Club’s
sports on Saturday last, the 100 yards’ Challenge
Cup was run in rather an unsatisfactory manner.
After any number of false starts, the pistol
snapped, and all dashed away, except P. James,
who was left on the post. Baylis oame in first, a
yard ahead of Grainger; but as the pistol had only
snapped it was decided to run the event over again.
Baylis and Grainger refused to start, and the second
race resulted in a win for P. James. The races were
run in the stated times of 10 3-10 sec. and 10 6-10 sec.
respectively. Shipway fairly threw the two
miles’ walk Challenge Cup away. Early in the
race he was cautioned, and, towards the finish,
when he certainly had the race in hand, he did a
“show” spurt, and was disqualified when only
fifty yards from home. Had he won the event on
Saturday, the Cup would have become his pro-
perty. Ferris did not run up to last year’s form in
the mile. He made his effort too soon, and
although he passed Middleton at the back of the
course in the last lap, he was unable to hold his
own, and Middleton passed him some fifty yards
from home. The heavy going suited Middleton,
and Ferris made a big mistake in making the run-
ning so soon.
Tbe race on Saturday last between Solo-
mon and Gulliford was another instance that a
race is never over till the judge’sjflag descends;
and that, no matter how bad a man feels in his
boat, he may rest assured that in nine cases out of
ten his opponent is in much the same strait, and
it is just a matter of who cracks first—that is, of
course, if the men are anything like equal in pace.
The men showed out in two equal boats built by
Donnelly and Sullivan, and started by mutual
consent. Solomon, being an old hand at the game,
got away with a slight advantage, which he in-
creased to 3 lengths by time Uhr’s Point was shot,
but Gullifo’-d, pulling in much the best style, com-
menced to overhaul nis leader, a»d at the mile had
a length to the good. At Tennyson, he had in-
creased his lead to four lengths and the race was
considored such a certainty for him that a Ring-
gtreet sporting publican offered to lay £2O to £2 on
him, but without response. A little further on,
Solomon spurted, and with such effect that he
rowed clean past his opponent, who was done to
such a turn that he was unable to make an effort
to keep pride of place. Solomon pulled a game
race, and showed he is possessed of more bottom
than he is generally credited with.
SPOUTING GLEANINGS.
The Australian jockey, Gerard, was to go
to England, from India, with the Arab horse
Kismet, who is engaged in the Arab Stakes at
Newmarket The Great Autumn Handicap, run
at Christchurch, on the 14th April, resulted as
follows .-—Vanguard. 1; Hippodamia, 2 ; Lady
Emma, 3 The interprovincial cricket match,
Wellington v. Canterbury, was drawn for want of
time. The scores were Wellington 71 and 204, and
Canterbury 185. The latter had thus to make
91 to win The football season is opened
in Wellington (N. Z) and the game is in
full swing. Last season Wellington succeeded
in beating all the other provinces Mr. W.
A. Long has bought the yearling sister to
Garfield and the brother to Lord Exeter, fer 500
and 115 guineas respectively — Mr. W. K. Bishop,
who arrived in Auckland (N.Z.) from Sydney, re-
cently, has been entrusted by Hanlan with the
making of negotiations for rowing exhibitions and
champion matches in New Zealand At Kiama.
C. Arthur conceded W. Cook five yards, and beat
him in a 100 yards’ spin —After the finish of the
Cobar Sheffield Handicap, won by Best, the usual
row occurred. Best got the best of the start, and
after the event the starter came in for more than
a fair share of abuse.
• • •
The National Cyole Company, of Coventry,
have invented a trike that will travel up stairs—
Mr. John Mitchell, for many years “Vigilant” in
the London BportsmAn, is dead—The sportsmen
of Toulouse have found a novel system of cours-
ing. M. An<s has founded anew sport at Toulouse,
and his success has been very great. All the grey-
hounds are drawn up in a line and M. An 6 mounts
his thoroughbred, taking a lead of fifty yards with
a “ hare attached to his saddle-bow. The
race depends on a turn of speed, and the hound
which first seizes the hare is adjudged the winner.
A Fact Worth Knowing.— Are you suffering
with Consumption, Coughs, Severe Colds settled
on the Breast, Pneumonia, or any disease of the
Throat and Lungs ? If so, go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of Boscheo’s German Syrup. The
people are going wild over its success, and Drug-
gists all over our country are writing us of its
wonderful cures among their customers. It has
by far the largest sale of any remedy, simply
because it is of so much value in all affections of
this kind. Chronic cases quickly yield to it.
Druggists recommend it and physicians prescribe
it. If you wish to try its superior virtue, get a
Sample Bottle for 6d. Large size bottle, 3s. 6d.
Three doses will relieve any case. Try it.
What lucky dogs those Melbourne press-
men are, to be sure. Some of them always dip-
ping into a good thing. Why, it is only a short year
ago lhat one of them managed to captivate the
handsome widow of a deceased miner, who, on step-
ping out for the Golden Shore, left her bullion and
real estate estimated at many thousands. And
now, instead of doing “the rounds” for David
Syme “on his uppers,” so to speak, he drives
through the c'ty behind a pair of high-stepping
horses, in a carriage fit for a Rajah or something,
in a style calculated to turn his less fortunate
brethren of the quill green with envy. That was
a win for the Age, so the evening paper scribes
determined that the next victory should score to
their account. And it did ; a World inkslinger
was the fortunate man. A couple of weeks ago a
conflagration took place in Sandridge, and this
euterprising youth was sent, to collate information
thereof for the Evening Mortimer. With char-
acteristic zeal, and a desire for supplying minute
details, he was poking about the ruins of the pre-
mises, when suddenly he disappeared, as though
the earth had swallowed him. But it hadn’t. He
had unwittingly walked on to some rotten boards
that formed the covering of an old tank, into
which he gracefully, if not rather precipitately
descended, without as much as saying "By yer
leave.” He had, indeed, literally dropped into a
good thing—was, in fact, “up to his neck in it”—
and had to be hauled out with a twenty-feet
derrick and a hoisting tackle. And then he had to
be hosed down by the firemen, deodorised and
disinfected, and his “copy ” subjected to the “hot
air” and sulphur fumigating process before it
could be received in Flinders Lane. Yes, even
though we lay ourselves open to the charge of
reiteration, wo repeat with increased vehemence
that those Melbourne pressmen are lucky dogs.
The new Postmaster-General of Victoria
has had his chance, and has jumped level with the
expectations formed of him. He pledged himself
to do his best to please everybody, and to swell
the revenues of his department. A crucial case
has turned up. A little township down there got
itself baptised into civilisation under the start-
lingly original style and title of “L.L. Vale.”
Antiquarian research might show how it came to
adopt such an eccentric designation; and when it
produces a five-legged calf, or a mare that will
fling a three-legged stool, it may be worth while
to go that way and dig into the research. In print
the name is suggestive of several origins. For
instance, Mr. Vam, the temperance orator, may
have been about there in the beginning of things,
and it is nearly certain that there was a little of
Dunville’s elixir about there also, and, not un-
naturally, the astute founders of the township
made friends with sin and grace. Or it may be
that the place reclaimed from barbarism was
merely a vale, and that the first reclaimers de-
rived such special advantages from the medical
skill of the illustrious Melbourne L.L. that in the
flush of recovered energies they determined to
advertise him gratis while their town existed. But
leaving the origin of the name to antiquarians, we
go on to show how the Postmaster-General has
soored a difficult triok. Some restless people
shifted from L.L. Vale, and going a few
miles down started another township called
Mitcham. Strangers came and built there, and a
couple of months ago Mitchan was as big as the
•ancient L.L. Vale. Now came the tug of war.
Which of them should have the Post Office ?
Mitcham rolled up its trousers and went down to
interview Mr. Campbell on the matter; and L.L.
rolled up its trousers also, and started on the same
mission. They found the Postmaster-General.
They mopped their foreheads and burst into elo-
quence, and to the remonstrance “ One at a time,
gentlemen, one at a time,” they were as deaf as
adders. “I’ll tell you what I will do,” said Mr.
Campbell, when the countrymen were talked out:
“I’ll open a window at L.L. Vale and a window at
Mitcham for receiving letters. D’ye mind me? I’ll
leave these windows open for nine months. D’ye
mind me ? At the end of the nine months. I’ll
count all the letters posted in L.L. and all the
letters posted in Mitcham. D’ye mind me ? And
whichever place posts the most letters, that’s the
place that’ll have the Post Office.” And L.L. Vale
and Mitcham are doing nothing but writing letters
and posting them, and the sale of stamps up there
is greater than throughout half Victoria. Does
not that show that the new Postmaster-General
can jump level with expectations ?
We always have had an opinion that the
Gladstonian polioy of “ peace at any price ” was at
best but a poor attempt at preserving the dignity
of the mighty Empire to which it is our proud
privilege to belong. And now that we find our
hands are being strengthened, as it were, by the
cognate views of the cultured editors who run the
country press, our cup of happiness is fairly
brimming over. In our humble and unassuming
way, we have repeatedly warned Mr. Gladstone
that his style of doing business dtd not meet with
our approval, and that it was calculated not only
to tarnish the otherwise bright escutcheon of
Britain’s fame, but that it would eventually slop
right over the whole shield. But, so far, our ad-
vice has been unheeded, and our warnings have
been void of effect, for we notice that Glad-
stone just ploughs along in his own furrow
(this striking simile for the farmers’ mind),
so to speak. The Grand Old Man will be
sorry for it some day. We are sometimes
sorry ourselves—when we get sober. All great
men are. [Tut-tut I—Ed. 8.l However, we have
discovered the reason why the G.O.M. “cooked a
deaf ’un” to our counsel. Our style was not
fetching enough for the English premier. Our
feeble efforts would not or could not, or some-
thing, rise to the exigencies of the situation, and
hence our waste of time and talent. But the
erudite leader-writer of the Nathalia Herald
(Vic.) has come to the rescue with his willing and
able pen, and, in language as clearly expressed, as
the sentiments are ennobling and lofty, deals
sledge-hammer blows at the vaecillatmg and
weak-kneed policy of the elderly gentleman who
guides the destinies of the British Empire. He
points out with characteristic lucidity and start-
ling accuracy that 30,000 lives have been sacrificed
in the Soudan, that the results of the campaign
have so far heen worse than useless, and that the
chances of General Gordon ever getting out of
his present difficulties with a whole skin are very
slim indeed. We feel, however, that in condensing
his leader, we are doing him an injustice;
and at the risk of over crowdiog our valuable
space wo have selected a chunk from the artiole
under notice, which we give pro bono publico.
Hear the gifted scribe “ Should such unfortu-
nately be the case, we expect the usual retribution
will take place, and a few more thousand Arabs
butchered, and all, as Mr. Gladstone says, that
peace may be. We are pleased to see that dissen-
tions (sic) are arising in the Cabinet, and Mr. Glad-
stone’s senseless policy is being strongly Arabs,
which will take centuries to appease. The defeat
of Toleba will be chronicled in their annals and its
distirred up hatred in the breast of asters told
from father to son, and opposed. By every right-
thinking taxpayer throughout England we think
it is abhorred, and justly so.” (s(c) So do we. And
somehow, we hardly know what to think. That
last drop of rum was rather strong. Yet, we fancy
that the Nathalia editor had been “where the
stream was gently flowing” before penning that
brilliant leader. Or perhaps he was down the
cellar for a spell. However, we hear the voice- of
the Missus calling for some chopped wood, and we
must give up speculating.
Why do Hop Bitters cure so much? Be-
cause they give good digestion, rich blood and
healthy action of all the organs. Read.
Durham, lowa, Maroh 2, 1882. Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla has cured me of the Inflammatory
Rheumatism after being troubled with the disease
for eight years.—W. M. Moore.
When Wolfe’s Schnapps was first intro-
duced here, the article was analysed by competent
chemists and pronounced pure and wholesome; it
is now and has been for many years a standard
professional remedy.
Other odorous waters undergo many varia-
tions r» ma as they fade into insipidity, but
Murray a nd Lanman s Florida Water passes
through no such gradations. As it is when
sprinkled upon the handkerchief or the garment,
go it remains—delicate, refreshing, and delightful
to the last.


ÜBNITUBB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, WFWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hatstands, and
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASEB, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINET* for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just reoeived. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
FURNITURE.-THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Gr>_at variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
TJIIGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES—The
ID Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.-Whatnots, from 20s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d: Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
3
OQ K PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWUU strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, Sss. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONA&TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
/“IHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O ’ Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
Drawing-room occasional chairs-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR]
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS aHd WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair. ,
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 6-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas. '
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
I Patented.
FTT
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. Mm above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or whorever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T7IRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
Ij TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery-
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, ana
LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell- S ;reet.
w
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMB.
f 1 ARDEN SEATS, 20s ; Verandah Chairs,
|JT INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Connell-street.
Bentwood furniture.-a very complete
Assortment; best make, lowest prices,
SOCIAL
The third of the Socials at Tattersall’s Hall,
on Friday last, was considered the best yet, as
there was a convenient number present, and the
company are fast getting to know and esteem one
another. At the same time, a small sprinkling of
visitors to whom tickets were issued helped to
freshen the assembly, and to gratify that desire
for new faces and love of change always so strong
in the bosom of the sex which is said to be fickle
as well as fair. The trio of musicians sat and
thrummed their instruments as the hall slowly
filled, but about 8 o’clock there was quite an acces-
sion of beauty and chivalry all at once, and the
programme once started, was reeled merrily off,
with a brief interval for refreshing. Messrs. Holt,
Pearce, and Marsden assisted on the floor, which was
in good order; and—as the ladies are not expected
to be en grande tenue at a “ small and early if any
toilets caught the eye it was mostly by their neat-
ness. For instance, if a young lady who happens
to be charmingly pretty decks a dress that is only
plain black, but indicative of personal symmetry,
with coral - red flowers—what more is wanted ?
If a petite dancer is aerial in pure white lawn,
-"ith a little golden ribbon here and there, and a
flish of gold in her fair brown hair-it would be
unreasonable to desire any further ornament.
Anyone who would load fair simplicity at sweet
seventeen with an elaborate toilet would be
philistine enough to paint a lily, or scent a violet,
with the precious idea of improving it. A slender,
tender maiden reminded us of one in Ingoldsby s
poems, for “ the Lady Jane was tall and slim, and
the Lady Jane was fair," and so was this lady, and
very graceful in her flowing black skirts, and
her fair hair done exactly the way it is
on a shilling we have in our pocket, and
which we shall try and keep in memory
of her. A darker damosel suited her style
in dark green satin, broad-pleated, and was
noticed because of her Recamier’d hair. This is
the French way of saying it was cut short and
curled, like unto the hair of the Ethiop. And we
would here observe that all the girls who have cut
their hair short are now in the fashion and most
of them have colds in consequence. A lady of
Majeroni kind of face and figure, from Surry
Hills, in black brochii tunic and cream skirt, ap-
peared happy, and the cause of her happiness was
never far off. An Ashfleld lady also wpre an
aspect of enjoyment, as well as a rich combination
of cardinal and black in satins. A stately brunette
from the Shore, in blue and ruby, was a beautiful
dancer; so was « tall lady from Stanmore in cream
madras. A tall valseuse and her roseate sister
both came in suitable white from Redfern. The
prettiestjdress, and in quietest taste, was a dainty,
deep-cream corded silk, worn by a dark young lady
from Moore Park ; and a white veiling, trimmed
with the now unusual peacock greens was nice.
Midnight saw the end of the Sooial.
The Queen’s first Drawing Room was fixed
for 13th March, but on its being discovered that
this was the anniversary of the day of the “re-
moval ” of Czar Alexander 11., the ceremony was
postponed a day. Then the High Church party
were offended because it was held in Lent. Bou-
quets were of enormous size. The Princess of
Wales, who received guests, wore rich gold Indian
embroidery, over a jupe of brown marabout and
draperies of Vandyke velvet; corset of velvet and
sleeves of marabout; train lined with gold satin
and bordered with marabout. Lady George
Nevill, sister-in-law of Lord William, whom Sir
Salmon consigned to Melbourne recently, was pre-
sented by the Marchioness of Abergavenny.
• • •
A Bachelor’s Ball was held at Argoon,
Riverina, on Thursday, 35th ult., which, though
the weather was threatening, was numerously
attended. A picnic, which was to initiate the pro-
ceedings, was stopped by the rain. About 130
responded to the ball invitations. Ladles-princi-
pally single ones, the bachelors’ joy—were in great
force, and the honours of belle wers divided by a
fairy in black velvet, from Gippsland, and one
from Argoon, dressed tastefully in black. Dancing
kept up all night, only interrupted by an exeel-
lent supper and several songs by volunteers. A
looal poet, Mr. Tranter, reaped great triumphs
with his song “The Bachelors’ Ball,” introducing
local affairs. Mr. James Blain as M.C. and the
musicians kept the floor full, and speeches were
very limited. The pleasant party broke up with
the dawn.
♦ * *
Girls often think men are brutes because
they don’t evince more disposition to marry; but,
after all, it is mostly the girls’ own faults. In the
first place, it is not every girl who is in a position
to support a husband comfortably without his
working. Girls are not careful enough to keep
sweet with their rich old grandpas and affluent
unoles. Now, instead of spending her money in
ribbons, and wire constructions and things, let the
good girl pop her savings into the bank, and don’t
forget to tell it; take her dear old grandpa out to
the sports, and walk him up and down: let every-
one know she visits her darling nunky at least
once a week, and makes him wool slippers every
winter. Another thing; girls don’t help matters
along enough. Many a fine young fellow ha« gone
down the narrow passage from the parlour, and
“ put the hall lamp out, Charlie,” and out through
the front gate into the silent night—a bachelor;
not because his lady-love won’t have him, but be-
cause she never adopted the peculiarly simple
plan of asking him. It’s a wonder that girls over-
look these very simple things.
* • •
It was at a recent bazaar—never mind
where. He had been pestered to buy things he
didn't want, and a relentless girl came up for the
tenth time with a doll that had goggly eyes and a
bustle (the doll had), and again she offered him a
share In the horrible thing (the doll, that is).
“ Really cleaned out,” he protested, “ and you’ve
got. me down for it before, and—and,” (with a
shudder) “ besides, I might get it!” She let him be
• • •
A very fair attendance was seen at the
Svdnoy Amateur Athletio Club snorts, last Satur-
day and there was the music of the German Band
and a good variety of events to please visitors.
The variable weather must have influenced the
show of fashion, which was less observable than
it has often been before, and, as promenading was
onlv practised by a few, there is little to be said of
the toilettes. The fair weare rs of the modern mar-
vellous works of art come out, like butterflies, at
their best only in the sun. Need we say, then, how
everyone regretted that there was not more sun ?
Time was, only a few years ago, when the Sydney
Amateur rates were the great half-yearly events
of the kind; but though they may be no less
interesting than of yore, the public patronage is
now clamoured for and divided by nearly a dozen
clubs of a kindred character. For two months to
come, there will be shows of muscular merit each
Saturday on the Association Ground.
** * *
Correy, of the well-known Tea Gardens,
Botany, expects to have his new pleasure grounds
and pavilion at Mortlake open in about two
months • - Mr. N. Greenwood, who has come to Bt.
Leonard’s Public School, had a hearty send-off
from the Mudgee people, who gave him a dinner
on the 39th ult... .This evening the “ Mercantiles
meet to start their annual ball arrangements. .. In
Melbourne, the bicycle clubs go in for balls. The
Carlton’s comes off next month... A southern
suburb lady was telling a friend last week what a
treasure her Chinee cook was, “so cheeriul, and
always at work. Come right down with me now,
and he is surejto be cleaning something.” So he
was- Ah Chow was washing his feet in tbeflsh-
kettle! Dr. Knaggs, of Newcastle, was enter-
tained’by hie medical confreres at dinner there last
week, as he is leaving to practise in Sydney —
A girl from the country surprised her mother by
asserting a monkey had spoken to her at the Zoo.
We could argue that point, and say a monkey
might speak as well as a donkey; but we freely
admit the girl made a mistake. A girl who cannot
positively tell a monkey from a masher ought
to study natural history A christening party
was given by Mr. A. Desmoynes, of Noumea, last
month. Fifty present, dancing till the small hours,
dresses fair to see, and the local ’bus to take them
home. Belle hard to decide: between Miss M.,
daughter of a German gentleman, and the second
youngest daughter of a prominent merchant
At Forbes, bazaar put £lOO into the church coffers;
and concert netted £3O for the hospital Governor
of Queensland’s summer residence fixed at South-
port on tho coast Dr. Kraul, German Consul,
arrived in the R.M.S. Shannon, last week. And on
Saturday, Captain J. S. Murray, of that steamer,
was married at St. Mark’s Church, Darling Point,
to Miss E. L. Murrav, superintendent of the Prince
Alfred Hospital. Harbour ships were decked with
bunting in honour of the event .. A few festivi-
ties occurred during the visit of the Governor to
Norfolk Island. One was theautumn flower show,
another the opening of a recreation room, and a
ball was also held which Lord Loftus and Mr.
Unwin attended. Next week the Balmain Amateur
Dramatic Club give an entertainment in aid of the
Balmain Rowing Club at the local School of Arts,
There will be a concert, too, and no doubt a plea-
sant evening altogether—A musical entertain-
ment was given in Tuttle’s last week, when a
choral composition of the South Sea Bard’s was
rendered by the Wesleyan choir of the Bourke-
street church; and recitations and dancing fol-
lowed A Dr. Fisher, of New Zealand, has been
married in London to Miss Arabella Buckley, a
clever young lady, who was for many years
private secretary to Sir Charles Lyell.
80CIAL FIXTURES.
Masonic Picnic (Botany) May 8.
Scandinavian Annual Ball (City Hall) May 9.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) May 9.
Suburban Bicycle Club Sports May 10.
Ashfield Assembly May 16.
Professor West’s Birthday party (at his
Rooms) May 19.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nithsdale)....May 23.
Randwick Races May 24.
Glebe R.C. Annual Ball (West’s R00m5).... May 30.
North Shore R.C. Annual Ball (Nithsdale).. June 5.
Sydney Owl Club Annual Ball (Town Hall). .June 12.
Balmain Rowing Flub Ball (Prof. West’s
Rooms, Leigh House) July 11.
Any young lady with but slight millinery
experience can make a pleated velvet Beret.
They are most becoming and coquettish little
hats. The stiff shape is trimmed with grey
prunelle and the crown covered with grey
velvet put on full, and slung in two ends at
the side, from which start two stiff grey
feathers.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belle,— Just fancy the Queen wearing
deep mourning robes at her granddaughter’s
wedding ! And how pleasant for the young bride
if she happen to be superstitiously inclined! I
remember once going to a wedding on a very cold
day, and during the ceremony one of the brides-
maids, Iwho was suffering from a severe cold,
began to cough, when a well meaning friend who
stood close by her, threw over her shoulders a
black fur tippet. This so horrified the mother of
the bride that she actually screamed out, when
it suddenly dawned on the officious friend what
she had done. However, a fleecy white cloud was
soon substituted for the offending black tippet,
but even to this day the old lady talks about, the
turn it gave her, and is still looking for the ill luck
which she declares must follow. But;it has never
come, and I hope it won’t, for they are among tfe
happiest couples I know. Some people glory In
these superstitious fancies. I have know girls
walk on the very edge of a kerbing rather than
pass under a ladder, and yet they will alight from
the wrong side of a tram-car without the slightest
hesitation-which proves, dear, that they respect
their superstition more than they do their lives.
But, at all events, it is to be hoped that a double
dose of rice and old shoes was showered after the
royal pair in order to help to avert any evil the
Queen’s black robes might have brought them.
Now, if I wore a man, I should be head over ears
in love with the Squire, It is the sweetest, pretti-
est, most fascinating Squire I ever saw. That
sounds funny, you will say; but when I tell you
the Squire is no other than Maggie Knight, it’s all
right, isn’t it? It is so nice having something
good to go and see at the Gaiety—bright, pretty
theatre that it is—and, judging by the attemdance
the other night, others are of the same way of
thinking. Some of the dresses were quite as bril-
liant as one usually sees at the Royal or at the
Opera House. Why it should be an exception to
see ladies in real full dress at the Gaiety, I am at a
loss to understand; but so it is. A lady from one
of the suburbs wore a dress which was rich and
uncommon. It was a black satin profusely
trimmed with fine crewel work of divers colours.
The neck was cut V shape, and fastened with an
enormous bunch of pink rose-buds. A pink veil-
ing jupe, pleated on to a black velvet sleeveless
body, was very quaint. The wearer wore her hair
in a peculiar style, which I didn’t quite under-
stand ; seemingly, it was cut close to the head, but,
for oil that, a thick coil was worn on the crown,
but how it came there was a mystery. I liked
immensely a white satin petticoat, over which
hung, gracefully draped, a ruby velvet polonaise.
Flowers in the hair for evening wear are now
almost unknown —nothing but jewelled pins,
buckles, or chenille ornaments are to be seen.
I went to little May’s birthday party the other
day, for I love to see the little ones enjoying them-
selves, and do you know, dear, I never noticed
before what a hard, unchildish look the present
fashion of cutting the hair quite close to the head
give to the little faces. It is quite a mistake to
imagine that by keeping the hair cut close while
young, it grows in more profusion in after years;
indeed, science has discovered that it is quite the
reverse. Certainly, it is a very recent discovery,
and will take, perhaps, half a century to make
people believe it, but I always suspected that such
was the case. Look at the Germans, for instance.
Their children have almost invariably beautiful
hair, the wealth of which does not seem to deteri-
orate in the least as they grow older. At any rate,
it has been proved that the constant cutting even-
tually impoverishes the roots of the hair, which
then becomes scanty and of crabbed growth.
And, besides. I don’t believe that nature ever
meant that little boys and girls should have their
heads disfigured by this hideous prison crop, and
why it is so popular l cannot make out.
Saturday was a dismal enough day for the
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club sports, but for all
that they were well patronised. There were slight
showers of rain at intervals, which accounted for
the Stand being so crowded. A few ladies, who
could not endure having their gorgeous costumes
hidden, ventured out to promenade between
the showers, and were sorry enough before the
day was out, I’ll warrant, as some ol the beautiful
Mary Anderson skirts, which were made just to
tip the ground (a mistake, I think), did not benefit
at all by their damp airing. Not any that I saw,
besides ourselves, wore the colours of their
favourite sportsmen, and we, not wishing to be
singular, were cowardly enough to tear our
badges off. We were not sorry afterwards that we
had done so, as our favourite was very much out
of form. I think he can’t have been strict enough
in his training diet of hard biscuits and dry toast.
Most of the dresses were velvets, sometimes com-
bined with satin, and not a few were of the Mary
Anderson style, which is as graceful as it is simple.
By the way, though, these long fine kilts cannot be
made properly without a certain machine which
is very expensive, so most of our warehouses have
imported the skirts ready kilted. I saw one of
brown cashmere at the sports worn by a petite fair
lady, with a straw bonnet of same hue, the only
other colour being a dash of the new light yellow
in the bonnet. Miss Ackman wore a garnet velvet
skirt, perfectly plain, and a short pointed jacket:
and a large bunch of camellias fastened
upon her right hip attracted much notice.
Mrs. Carrugatti looked well in a ruby violet and
satin dress and white princess bonnet with trim-
ming to blend with the dress. In her company,
and attired in what was thought by many to be
the dress on the lawn, was Miss Pooley. Her
choice was myrtle green velvet and satin, with
velvet hat and plumes to match. Miss Barton, in
cream and crushed strawberry, looked fresh and
rosy. Miss Macdonald’s hat, laden with green
grapes, attracted attention, and I daresay many
thought them sour, but the face underneath the
hat looked quite the reverse. An electric blue
satin was one of the brig htest dresses; but one
most suited to the day was a navy serge, trimmed
with numerous rows of narrow gold braid, navy
felt hat adorned with one gold wing. A gray cos-
tume, with velvet jockey cap and scarlet wing, was
worn by a Kandwick lady. I liked very much a
dress made wholly of seal brown velvet. I think
ir. is a mistake to trim velvet in any way; it can
hardly be more etfeoti/e than it is in its own hand-
some simplicity. A black dress, with Spanish
lace pelerine, was made to look uncommon by
reason of the latter being fastened over the left
shoulder by a large blue enamel butterfly with
filigree gold wings.
We have had some fairly good music during the
week, notably the Sacred Harmonic Society’s
Concert, and another Matinee. At the former,
Mr. William Stanley’s cantata “ David and the
Philistines” was performed, and although I was
not thei-e to hear it, I gather that it was very
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)


Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flatr and floral decorations. 60i Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
JJIINESTCI
GARETTES. FINEST CIGARETTES
ABE
VANITY FATR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CQ.,
Rochester. y. 5.4.
WeakNeivoisMen
Whose debility, exhausted
Powers, premature decay
and failure t® perform life’s
duties properly aro caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will hud a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
ilNeither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Aervoiis Debility and
, ■ I*hysle« 1 Decay isumformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52 Castlereagh St., Sydney
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT,
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1884,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ABSORTED
STOCK OF
IN THE COLONF,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
MAID, WIFE, AND MOTHER: a Medical
Book for Womankind. “ Worth its weight
in gold ” Post free, in secure cover, 1«. 6d . N.S. W.
stimps. To be bad only of the publisher, Mrs.
BEARCROFT, Box 740, G.P.0., Sydney.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS, &c :
From Thb Bulletin. Jan. 5,1884.
“Vaid, Wife, and Mother,” lately published in
Sydney, contains quite a number of sensible sug-
gestions and directions for the guidance of women
under various circumstances. These directions
are conveyei in a plain, chatty style, free from
the technicalities which render professional works
on the subject of little value to non-professional
readers.
From Once a Week, Jan. £6.
We have received from the publisher a work
entitled “Maid, Wife, and Mother,” a book for
womankind, containing much necessary i iforma-
tlon for the guidance of the sex in pregnancy, &c.
The book, which is issued at a price within the
reach of all, is well and plainly written—many of
the technical expressions and words in use by the
medical prolession being replaced by those more
readily understood by the general reader. It is
singularly free from the “ humbug ” and “ twad-
dle ” with which most unscientific works of the
kind abound, and seems, as far as we can judge,
to have been oompiled by a writer competent to
deal with the subject. It will n® doubt command
a ready sale.
From the Town and Country Journal, Feb. 9.
“Maid, Wife, and Mother,” is a compilation of
medical data concerning the gentle sex.
From Mrs. Doudney, Dipiommd Midwife.
I have looked carefully over the book “Maid,
Wife, and Mother,” and have no hesitation in
saying that it is an excellent guide for womankind
in the various stages of life.—Rebecca J.
Doudney.
Address-Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box G.P.O.,
Sydney.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 29th April, 1884.
TENDERS FOR REPAIRS & IMPROVEMENTS.
TENDERS are invited for Repairs and Improve-
ments at the Lane Cove Public School.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Repairs and
Improvements, Lane Cove Public School,” must be
lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o'clock
a.m., on Wednesday, the 21st May, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
JOSEPH P. ABBOTT.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 6th May, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at ©very Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 2nd May, 1884.
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILIDNG.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of a
Wooden Building for the Boys’ Department
at the Parramatta North Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney, and at the
Public School, Parramatta, on application to the
Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Wooden Build-
ing, Parramatta North Public School,” must
dg lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o clock a.na., on Wednesday, 28th May, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
i
v
7
*>
t>\N®
OUOUb
&
355
339&541 G€ORSg~Sli
* ><^»-SYJKEY^^e
N€A|^ropposiT€.BOST Office.
Ssjingc ov 195 ceopce stpkt
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
THE SOUTHERN
CROSS
TEA. ASSOCIATION.
** 2s. per lb.
The TEAS sold
by this Associa-
tion have been
specially selected
and blended by an
Expert, to meet
the taste and re-
quirements of the
Australian pub-
lic.
JRADE
MARK”.
{Registered.']
OFFICE and DEPOT:
114 Pitt-strcst, Sydney,
*** 2s. 6d. per lb.
Our TEAS are
unequalled in the
Australian mar-
ket and unex-
celled in the
world for quality,
flavor & strength;
the public may
confidently rely
upon always re-
ceiving a Tea of
uniform standard
and excellence.
J. Henochsberg ,
>IAWAQKU.
favourably received. The last matinee was cer-
t linly the best Madame Marius and Miss Thompson
have given us ; the names of Hallewell, Francik
and Tom=> hr ing quite enough to account for that.
Mr. Hallewell’s song from “ Populaire” was the
vocal gem; indeed, he succeeded in rousing the
usually apathetic audience to something like
enthusiasm. He seems to have made a sort of pet
child of this song, and enjoys singing it as
thoroughly as we do listening to it. Miss Thompson
and Mr. Toms played a duet for two pianos, and
besides that they each performed a solo. Herr
Francik is still improving in his violin playing,
and his solo on Wednesday was really very nice
A young lady who is, I think, a stranger in Sydney,
sang a song, but her enunciation was too imper-
fect for us to catch the words. Her voice was
powerful and fresh, but her style needs improving.
The Kennedy’s are again giving concerts at the
Protestant Hall, but I will tell you about them
next week. They are, I believe, drawing immense
houses, so the Scottish element must be pretty
Strong in Sydney. I wanted to tell you a heap
about “An Arabian Night,” and Mrs. Polk's beau-
tiful costumes, but that must also wait until next
time. lam glad you received the music safely,
also the book. Yours ever,
MAD.
[?]
Primate Barry opened St. Stephen’s
Church, N. Willoughby, and seized the opportunity
to orate about his “ call.”
The Hamilton (Yic.) Racing Club shocked
the “clargy” by holding their meet in “Holy
week. ’ The Rev. Zillman denounced the club
from the pulpit.
Granny speaks of Primate Barry adopt-
ing the astern position during the recital of the
Creed, a circumstance pointing to the commission
by his lordship of what the evangelicals regard as
a fundamental error.
“ Where is the Christian newness of life?
where is the Kingdom ? what is righteousness and
peace?” Thus asked Bishop Barry in a late
sermon, and about a thousand people >voke up and
said Dunno—wha’s about the time ? ”
Unitarian Church (Sydney) finances look-
ing up: revenue equal to expenditure. Tha new
minister has evidently entered on a vigorous
Cammpaiga against the listlessness and apathv
which prevailed so long in the local Unitarian
congregation.
Professor Stade, of the Giessen University,
in a recent lecture speaking of religion in Germany,
said: “Our German Church is at triis moment
powerless in strength and influence: she is in the
stadium of decadence of a crisis.” Pretty warm
this from the land of Luther 1
Quoth Primate Barry the other day,
with reference to that vexata qxumtio reli-
gious instruction in public schools:—“lf I
am not mistaken there is now growing in
the public opinion of Sydney a certain uneasiness
as to the prospects of the rising generation and the
Colony, unless religious instruction can be made
a substantial and a living reality.” He is mistaken
as regards public opinion, though no doubt there
is a narrow section of the community who are
waxing daily more and more uneasy at the gradual
growth of Secularism. As for public opinion,
viewed broadly and comprehensively it is one ot
contempt for the insolent demands of the Anglican
laziness that, like England, expects every man to
do its duty.
In ’BO the Anglican churchwardens of
the Young congregation, notified Parson Ware
that they could not guarantee his stipend after
March ’Bl. Ware wouldn't budge, but held on,
annexing the weekly offertory ooin as 'sist money.
Neither will he budge, till his flock ante up £B5O
old, the sum tottle of his little bill against them.
One would have thought that under episcopal rule
such strained relations between pastor and flock
couldn’t be possible, for what is the use of
authority if not to maintain discipline and prevent
scandal ? It is difficult to imagine a right down
earnest evangelist like old Paul of Tarsus scoop-
ing the plate money of the Ephesians, and telling
them that he wouldn’t vamose the ranche until
they had planked down his arrears of pay, but
then they didn’t know everything down in Judee
and the parts adjacent.
Bishop Moorhouse’s letter to Mr. Craw-
ford on that rain-fetching business is stirring the
orthodox mind The Bishop guarded himself very
fairly, as he did not want to give the enemy occa-
sion for laughter. But, all the same, a slip-rail was
left down. And just inside stood the Bishop’s con-
viction of the inexorably unchanging laws of
physical nature. Here is the argumentum ad
hominem hurled in by a Southern cleric: “If the
laws of physical nature be inexorably unchanging,
why docs the Bishop repeat the Lord’s Prayer ? ”
In that prayer occurs the petition “ Give us this
day our daily bread.” The question is pertinent,
and should drive the Bishop, if he does not fall
back upon rendering the petition in a spiritual
sense, either to go a little farther, or to turn a
little way back.
.rohn Firth died the other day in the Cook-
town Hospital. The undertaker duly notified the
the Anglican parson, A. C. Mosley, what time the
funeral procesh would set out—and the parson
didn’t attend. He says the undertaker didn’t defi-
nitely inform him that the deceased Firth was an
Anglican. But what else, reverend sir, could the
fact of the funeral notification, having been ad-
dressed to you, have meant ? That it wap a pauper
funeral, and that it was a very wet day. are col-
lateral circumstances which certainly don’t go to-
wards inducing a fellow to give your lame excuse
a help over the stile. Moreover, John Firth had
been some days in the hospital before he died—
whence the inference that the visitation of the
sick poor is a function not very enthusiastically
discharged by you, although it be one much dwelt
upon in “ The Ordering of Priests,” according to
the Anglican rule.
Some days ago, in the Anglican Church of
St. John, Tamwortb, Parson Piddington “ im-
prove! ” Albany’s death. Amongst other tedious
va-pid-ities, the holy man declared that Leopold’s
decease was a Providential Mystery, whatever h e
meant by that palpably contradictory phrase. (We
forgot, however; Mr. Piddington naturally em-
ployed both terms in the theologic sense, and, of
course, that makes a lot of difference, since your
theologian will dish you up a pldt of what he calls
“ sense ” constructed out or that which to the ordin-
ary rationalist is but sheer non-sense.) The funny
thing is, thousrh, that Mother Church can only
espy providential mysteries in matters affecting
Herself and very big people indeed. Were Dean
Cowper to suddenly leave us for Kingdom come, it
would be a providential mystery ; whereas if
widow Jones were to do ditto, devil a ha’porth of
providential mystery would ever a parson on the
svuodical roll discover in the circumstance.
Having performed the “mystery” trick, Parson
Piddingt'n asked bis congregation "emundri
“Was Friace Leopold's work fiLished?” .And
then, weakly owning his inability to supply „u
answer, he declared-somewhat too late—that all
one could do vas to bow one’s head to the Great
God, and say “We will not open our mouth a
resolution which (so far as orating from a pulpit is
concerned) Piddington should certainly have made
long ago.
• •
Bickersteth, Bishop of Ripon, died last
week, aged 68 ; appointed 1857, screw worth £4500.
K.1.P.-on. Barry hums the might-have-been
Monsignor Moore consecrated Bishop .of Ballarat
by Archbishop Goo'd. Bishops of Ho art, Mait-
and, Adelaide, Goulburn, and Armidale present.
The Bishop of Tasmaniasays, with striking
onginaljty: “The complex and mysterious char-
acter ot human life is in no respect more plainly
seen than in the allotment and proportion of joy
and sorrow which falls to each individual.” The
originality (above-mentioned) consists in aa edu-
cated man conceiving that such a gratuitous bit of
pathos would pass muster for an idea worth pre-
senting to a lot of men and women. If It had
been a Moore College man, now!
Williams, of the Intercolonial Trades
unions’ Congress, has been deputed to go to Eng-
land and France to make known to the working
classes in those countries,'especially in the latter,
how Australia feels upon the question of the
recidivistes. The idea Is a bold one, and not a few
down South claim the credit of having suggested
i? * Vi e Wo J,y n k men. Among those posing as
the fathers of |the notion, Woods seems to have the
strongest claim and Gaunson the loudest. Maybe
williams will do some good in someway. It le
doesn t do any in the way chalked out, only thoS'*
who claim to have originated the notion will e
surprised. But the mission may not be anutte-
nullity if it tend to make the working classes of
Australia known to those on the Continent, as
knowledge is sure to beget identity of aim that
the power of Labour will ever be able to exercise
ms proper influence on the world. It were well,
however, if Mr. Williams carried with him a better
title to be the representative of Australia than the
manner of his election conferred upon him. Un-
fortunately he may be called the Representative
by fluke. There were seven nominations, and the
Congress understood that the competing claims
would be determined by vote Just before the
ballot was taken, however, six of these refused
to act it elected. Consequently Mr. Williams had
a walk oyer. Now it is declared by a large number
°f members that, had those gentlemen who de-
clined to go to the ballot, only declined to assent
to nomination, others would have assented to both.
The blame, however, does not rest with Mr.
Williams.
When it suits Tories to represent the senti-
ments of the “ common people ” as according with
what they would like people to believe, they never
scruple to declare that contentment with exist-
ing institutions is almost universal. But some-
times their real knowledge or impressions slips out
in unguarded moments. Thus, discussing the
prospects should Mr. Gladstone’s Bill to extend the
hranchise i ecome law, the Court Journal, the
tuft-hunter among newspapers, and the one which
most frankly gives voice to the tone of Upper
Ten-dom, naively remarks that: “ The grave defect
of the Bill, which we have anxiously pointed out,
is the introduction of a majority of socialism and
republicanism. Let the constituencies have time
to ponder over that; let them think what a demo-
cracy will accomplish.SThe agitators are already at
work in expectation, and one of them proudly,
boldly, announces that, having addressed public
meetings all over the country (of men who will
shortly have votes), he finds them, to use his own
simple language, ‘ ripe for plunder.’ ” This is a
distinct confession that the Court Journal
knows, or believe?, that the mass of the British
people, at present denied the right to vote, hold
socialistic and republican sentiments. The con-
cluding reference is a courtly sort of lie. The
reference is to Henry George, who at Glasgow
said he had addressed vast audiences in all parts of
the kingdom, and found them everywhere sensible
of the importance of resumption of the land, and
ripe for ‘ plunder,’ as the landlord party term it;”
not employing the term on his own account, but
contemptuously quoting it.
The Princess Dolgorouky-.Jourrefsky, the
morganatic widow of the late Czar, accompanied
by her children and suite, lately arrived in Paris at
her residence, the Villa Balzac, in the Champs
“ Morganatic widow ” is Court Journal
for promoted strumpet. The! late Czar took the
Dolgorouky out of a school for the daughters of
the nobility, which served him as a sort of coop
for raising a succesion of nice young mistresses.
Ho had taken her elder sister from the coop some
years before, but got tired of her. Dolgorouky
the Second was really attached to her Imperial
keeper, and he had not tired of her when he was
killed, so he left her handsomely provided for.
About half a million sterling is said to have been
her price. Now, the Czar never produced a pound
in his whole life. He simply took what he wanted
from those who did produce it. A Russian
peasant produces by tillage or other in-
dustry about £2O a year on an average.
Of this product of the sweat of his brow,
he is permitted to use about £l2 per
annum for his own subsistence, and tho
sustenance of his wife and children, if he be un
lucky enough to have any. The other £8 is
impounded by taxation. Of that £8 about £4 is
absorbed in expenses of collection, salaries of
assessors, tax-gatherers, Treasury clerks, and
great officers of the Department. About £2 more
is embezzled by these gentry, and the remaining
£2 reaches the coffers of the state. Thus, to pro-
vide for his wench, the Czar appropriated the whole
year’s earnings, beyond what sufficed for the most
wretohed subsistence, of 120,000 of tho industrious
among his subjects ; and, in order that he might
have the half million sterling for that moral pur-
pose, the 120,000 poor wretches had to surrender
no less than £960,000. Or,|to put it another way,
the 120,000 men had to work four months in one
year, and give up the entire results of their labour
for that period, in order that this one among the
Czar's numerous mistresses might be provided
for. Don’t duck him in the horsepond!
* * *
There are a good many contingent notices
tabled of clauses and amendments to the Crown
Lands Bill to be moved in Committee of the Whole:
12stand in Copeland’s name: 17 in Levin’s 10 in
Lyne’s: 12 in Ross’s: 98 in Farnell’s and lin Day’s
The O’Sullivan says in his Democrat:-“Let us
ostracise from our public life the wind-bags, char-
latans, noodles, and slippery customers which
abound in it.” Supposing, now, that we did, we
wonder whither the O'S. would direct his way?
* * *
Says the Graaff-Reinet (S. Africa) Ad-
vertiser :—“The state of affairs in Zuiuland is a
disgrace to England. We hope the Cape Parlia-
ment will not vote a penny towards patching up
affairs in Bechuanaland in the interest of a mis-
sionary society.” —On the morning after his
victory, wharfinger Watson wired to the Bailey
of Gundagai :—“Many, many thanks for so
ably fighting the battle and gaining the vic-
tory. Gundagai has acted nobly.” Yum I ...
In “La Vie Publique cn A.ngleterre’’ Bradlaugh is
described as “le genie de la chicane, on chair et en
os, logd sous les muscles d’un tigre du Bengaleet
tapi dans la jungle de la legislation la plus embrou-
illee des deux mondes.” The projected visit by
the King of Italy to Berlin was abandoned in con-
sequence of private information obtained by the
Italian polioe. It was intended to “ disperse ”
him The heir apparent to the throne of Russia
will attain his sixteenth year on tho 18th of this
month, and will be declared of age on that day.
There will be grand rejoiciDgs in honour of the
event. In fact, the police have already instruct
tions to compel everybody to rejoice. Business
hours from 6 a.m. to 12 p.m “My dear,” said the
Czar of Russia to his wife tho other day, “will you
give orders to have the palace gates locked and
the streets for one mile in every direction cleared
of people ? ” “ Certainly,” replied the Czarina,
‘but what are you going to do?” “I want to
look out of the window and see wbat kind of a day
it is.” The people of India had to pay, in the
first year of Lord Ripon’s vice-royaly. as travelling
expenses for himself and members of Council,
£90,856. Yet everybody is pained and surprised at
the periodical recurrence of famines. We wonder
how large a flight of locusts would be required to
work devastation to the value of £90,856 ?


Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear 8 I I «{ 1 “ erfully add m y testimony to the good
oflocts deriveable from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife ttuffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and his since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in Hie legs, in which
case the result was equally beneficial- It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
vou for any household accident. I recommend it
confidently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “It Conquers Pain. ’
I re mata,yg»™to&l ETlN .
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
ploy 6 in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and boars the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£lOO.—A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Yogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
hind, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representatives in various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Half-a-Crown a bottle,
genuine. r ™£ LIOTT BROTHERS. Svdnev,
Wholesale Depot for N.S.W.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
MASHBRS.-The best and lightest qre made by
Offord, Hatter, 662 George-street, Briekfleld Hill.
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quiok complete cure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and UriiSry Diseases.
Dnurgists. Moses. Moss A Ce.. Genera. Aarenta.
Kidney complaint, one of the most com-
mon and yet most negleoted diseases of this
oountry, can be readily cured by the use or Hop
Bitters. Bee.
•SJojs* ISelist'ble S’O.g'g'les I
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING-, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
Jitst OPFfJRD t>er s s Valetta. 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, in ail the Latest Styles and Shades,
aLarfeConsig P ofLadk* and Ohlldwn’s HOSIERY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
Cashmere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS.
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A large stook to select from.
MTLLINERY—A new stook to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
MILLINERY—For the winter.
FLOWERS—Tn great variety.
FEATHERS—In all qualities.
STRAWS—In all new shapes.
jpar" Havintr ensraared a first-class French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
and London markets, we are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods Id the
above line. A large of FANCY GOODS, consisting of Sunshades, Fans, Purses, Morocoo, Russia,
and Seal Bigs, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &c.
Note Address—J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Street, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET. LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
rsr Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
NOTWITHSTANDING THE LATE DISASTROUS FIRE,
TOU <3O BIRTTCE
ARE ABLE
TO OPEN THEIR NEW MAGNIFICENT PREMISES,
197 PITT ST., (Opposite Compagnoni’s),
WITH A COMPLETE STOCK OF
fast Pistos, Smith Orgsas, and In Music.
Note the New Address—NEAß KING STREET.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
FOR 1884,
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OUFTbICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Rest Satisfaction, of
any machines made.
Oar Prices tr e Lowest.
Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion e yery Customer.
Write to us,
OB
Call on us.
JmsIUKAItTTN* com.
W ~ GKOHOK STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
We can’t help thinking that the two sub-
joined pars, clipped trom the Gundagai Bailey,
are extremely suggestive of the exact converse ol
that which their concocter meant to convey
“We understand that Mr. Wants candidature
will cost a large amount of money. Mn Watsons
expenses were a mere bagatelle. One ot the
most prominent supporters of Mr. Want, directly
the result of the poll was known, was heard to
exolaim-‘IC I had known we had any chance of
being licked I would have raised a few dead
’uns.’ ” If these pars, weren t designed to en-
deavour to throw people off the strong scent of
Dinga-Dinga tactics, James Watson deserves to
be called the honorable member for Gundagai.
Savs the “Vagabond” to the Wentworth
Advocate:— “l was once plaintiff in a case in
Sydney. There was an unfortunate adjournment
for lunch, and the £5OO damages which would have
cone to the hospital was reduced to a farthing.
My junior counsel, Mr. J. H Want, informed me
that a juryman was ‘squared at lunch-time, and
Jem Punch afterwards told me the exact amount
paid. The Judge allowed me costs, but I paid £lOO
besides to ray lawyers, and swore under any cir-
cumstances never again to appeal to a New boath
Wales jury.” If all that ‘ coffer be as true M
that part of it re the proposed disposition of the
£5OO damages, it may be safely set down as a
bloomiug statement of fact. The introduction
into the yarn of the name of the defunct Jem
Punch is exceedingly artful.
We spend nearly £1,000,000 on education,
and here are some of the results :—Martha Harper,
aged 16, the prosecutrix in an alleged rape case at
Cooma, the other day, told the judge that she
oouldn t read nor write, couldn t tell tho time of
day, and didn’t know the months of J th ®
when the new year commenced. Like the savages,
she counted time by moons and seasons, and in her
general condition was not a shade above them.
But a witness in the case, a young married shep-
herd named Robert Evans,quite took the cake from
Martha in the matter of solid ignorance. Robert,
in fact, was bogged np to his eyes in the mud of
stupidity. He didn’t know what month of the
year it was, in short, to use his own words, he had
nno business whatsomever to do with the month
of the year at all.” And, as for Christmas Eve. he
“ reckoned that was somewhere about mh of
September.” No wonder Holy Joe raised his
Jrmesoent gaze from the binch to the ceiling
in pious horror at this revelation, while barrister
Pilcher hurled anathemas at those who failed to
have that million “ properly and evenly distributed
throughout the more remote districts of the
country.”
The white spirit up Lismore way must be
awfully strong and more than ordinarily obnoxious
to literary lucidity when one finds this kind
of swill in the leading columns of the local
chronicle:—“The Star speaks of the ignorance of
the S.M. Herald. To whomsoever the term
ignorance may be applied we are inclined to urge
that charges on the score against such parties sho w
not the ignorance (sic) of the Herald, and the
Colonial Treasurer bue (sic) the wrong impressed
Isic) of the paper making such charge The fact
is the Herald, being an ultra-free trade paper
sees in the present state of the sugar regulations a
violation ofthose principles and therefore advo-
cates a change, although it war (ate) fortunate in
chosing (sic) 1 wheat as a possible stop to be pro-
duced In the event of sugar failing, still it served
to illustrate its principles. The Herald like any
sincere advocate for change of any theory, has a
tendency to become fanatical and to
bring every industry down to one hard and fast
line/but we surely give evidnece (sic) only of our
incapicity (sic) if we desert the ordinary lines of
argument and descend into scurrility having mis-
taken it for proof. Our line the (sic) argument
should be that our sugar industry is peculiarly
circumstaneed (sic) and that any alteration in tho
tariff would ruin us as individuals without any
corresponding benefit aoerning (sic) to the State.
J ames Service waxed grandly wrath and
threshed the air when talking to ten working men,
in their mimic parliament, about the horrible,
utterly abandoned recidivlstes. These are James s
bogies, much for the same reason as the wind in
the chimney is the bogy of the nursery. How
shall we deal with this evil,” cried the distraught
Premier, “ this evil which we may call a visitation
ofthe flovil, an infiltration into our midst of the
siftings of a people who we know are not very
particular in their morality?” This was Caledonia,
the wild, the wild, to la belle France with what
may be called a sooial vengeance! People who
are not very particular in their morality 1 J.abj
But Mr. M'lvor, one of the delegates, got up in a
little very innocently and said in Glasgow
45,000 families occupy singlerooms, andthedegrad-
imr fact is that out of this number 34 single
rooms have ten persons resident in eac A°t them,
123 nine persons, 401 eight, 1017 seven, and j-lOOsix.
Onlv for his name, it would be thought that Mr.
MTvor was a Frenchman and that he was throw-
ing at the Roderick Random of Victoria a junk
which would show that the people
who we know are not very particular in their
morality are a cut above tolerating such an essen-
tial of immorality as this. Only for his naDa ®
and only also that he said nothing about another
little frolic which shows that James s old national
hearthstone can give points to creation in the
matter of illicit additions to population.
The Salvation Army had high jinks at the
Temperance Hall, Melbourne, lately. Several
startfing "experiences” were disclosed, as (we
ouote from the Melbourne D T.) “illustrating the
saving power still streaming from Heaven in con-
tinuous flow.” This, somehow, seems to convey
the insinuation that the Harmy’s t aving-power
“supply ” is liable to be cut off at any minute—
which is feasible enough when you come to think
over it. However, at present it s turned o" in full
force for we find (still quoting from the D.T.) an
infidel °who had for forty-six years tried every-
th lmr but Jesus, and could find no rest or consola-
name to Him at last, and was now a happy,
reso’nedmanJ’ Now.as " coming to Him ” means
—according to this—coming to a Army
meeting it’s only fair to consider that the Army
hasn’t been started for so very many years, there-
this particular infidel must, ior the major
portionof life, have been “trying” different
filings without the slightest chance of being
“ rescued,” and is deserving of our best sympathy.
But the most beautiful incident of this Easter
meeting has yet to be mentioned: A pair that
W long been divided by sin’s unpropitious in-
efmnee g were re-united while kneeling at the
altar, and seemed glad.” Seemedglad, indee ®
should think they were glad—jolly glad, for, after
throwing plates and things at one another for
vears a truce must have been acceptable to both
Jmoa ’ Bv the bve, what quarrelsome couples these
SKt
worsethan regular church-goers 1
Men like John Jennings are sometimes
encountered in out of the way places. When you
meet a man who is willing to swear ‘‘yes or
“no ” just as he is bid, and without any-
thing to that he h»s a motive one way or
orwvthpr that’s the man John Jennings is like.
Outside courts are often blamed for curious deci-
sions and curious methods of conducting business,
y..,, while there are witnesses of the marvellous
dor there, John Jennings was called by the Crown.
John swore as follows in a straight line: I aa
rinver within a hundred yards of the person on the
evening referred to. He seemed a short man
I couldn’t say he was the height of the
orißoner The coat he wore was, I think,
barker than the prisoner's. The man wM
Hnrkfir than the prisoner, and had darker
whiskers. When the prisoner was pointed out to
mo I said I did not think I had ever seen him be-
fore ” Hereupon the irate Chairman twitted the
Crown Prosecutor on the absurdity of producing
such a witness on the side of the Crown. But the
Crown Prosecutor said “ Easy, and forthwith
ir«hn Tennings swore again in a straight line.
“The prisoner is tho same man I saw that evening.
Yes he is. I’m sure he is. He s the man. That s
him ” Police-magistrate Heron had to lie back
£S* ejaculate. But if Mr. Heron would
take a tour round our bush courts, he would,
while still unable to explain the genesis of the
phenomenon, come upon as many of the John
Jennings type as would use up his stock of irate
ejaculations, and leave him on the Bench a patient
and decorous hearer of incomprehensible per-
juries.
History repeats itself in a style which says
but little for its originality. For example. Old
man Herodotus tells the following truthful tale.
At this time Ninus ruled in Assyria, but Semira-
mide, his queen, practically bossed the Empire.
Attached to the Court was one Umbertius, who
was a Nubian nigger, and a condemned cheeky
cuss to boot. So much so, that Ninyas, the elder
born, and divers others of the royal household
used to say “ Damlm,” as much as seventy-seven
times seven and the one-seventh part of seven
times a day, in consequence thereof. Likewise,
also, did they amuse the Court by smearing hot
sealing-wax and glue along the dining-room chair
of Umbertius, for he went bare-legged always
(as was the custom of his country), and tho style of
his subsequent bucking did amuse the Court most |
“ goldemnibly.” Whioh is a Chaldean word signi-
fying, “Oh, oome, let us all be joyful. But
Ninus, happening to go to a special
shivoo, did partake too freely of the Ethiopian
fluid which is known as “ snaikjuice, and after-
wards died in fourteen acts, to a doleful, go-as-you-
please style of music. But Semiramide grieved
not, and it is said that as she gazed on the desic-
c ited mummy of her lord, she said “ Thankgor he s
off, for in life he wasn’t fit to plug up rat
holes.” Shortly after this however, Umbertius did
go out in his shirt at midnight’s silent hour, to pelt
bricks at sundry cats who were disturbing the
queen’s rest by their blarstid serenading, and he
caught a fatal cold and died from the painf
effects thereof. At which the whole court (save
the queen), did laugh most consumedly, and it is
also recorded that Ninyas, the elder born, did hire
a portable electric battery and galvanise the dead
Umbertius, just, as he did say to his friends, to
see the sanguinary beggar squirm a trifle. But
Semiramide, the queen, was inconsolable, and put-
ting on sackcloth and ashes she publicly mourned
for Umbertius and refused to eat more than eight
meals a day, or drink less than seven tots ot the
Nubian drink called “ Whuskee.” But Arbaces,
the High Priest of Belus, coming unto her said,
“ Why grievest thou so muchly for Umbertius, for
when thy husband Ninus lay dead thou didst hold
high revel in thy banquetting halls and say to thy
friends ‘Set-em up agin old cocks; here satyer.
And Semiramide making answer said, That sso ,
but then you must remember, Ninus was not an
affectionate, or even a healthy nigger. A husband
is one thing, but a faithful servant is quite a differ-
ent style of hairpin altogether.” Upon whioh Ar-
baces did feel constrained to go behind a pump
and kick himself with excessive laughter. (As a
classic story the above is good, but we fail to see
where it catches on to modern history.— Ed. B.)
Philippe D’Orleans, Comte de Paris, is now
45 years old. He was only four at his father s
death in ’43. He remembers his grandfather, Louis
Philippe, abdicating, and his mother taking him
and the f)uo de Chartres to the Chamber of Depu-
ties, only to escape therefrom at the peril of their
lives, his young brother being separated from
them in the confusion. In 1849 the Duchess came
to England to be near the King and Queen. The
King dying in 1850, the Comte went to Germany.
When in his twentieth year he lost his mother,
and the Due de Nemours was appointed his guar-
dian. After several years of European travel he
and his brother wont to America in 1861. volun-
teering on the Federal side, the two Princes were
attached to M’Clellan’s staff, both being Present at
the battles of Williamsburg, Fair Oaks, and Gaine s
Hill. The Mexican expedition compelled their
return to Europe, a rupture between America ana
France being feared. On his return to Eng-
land he married his cousin Isabella, and from
that time until a law authorised the return of the
Princes to France, the young pair lived quietly at
Twickenham. At the period of the Prussian in-
vasion, the Comte was refused permission to fight
for his country. The Duo de Chartres, however,
engaged as a volunteer under a false name, and, as
Koffile Port distinguished himself. Since the
death of the Comte de Chambord, the Comte de
Paris has been acknowledged by the whole of the
Monarchical party as rightful heir to the throne of
France ; for no importance is to be attached to a
schism whioh the Comte d’Anbigmi Js trying to
foment in favour of the Bourbons of Spain. By
his assumption of the name of Phiiippe. which
shows that he would reign as Philippe VII. and
not as Louis Philippe IL—as Roi de France,
and not as Roi des Francais the Comte
de Paris has gained over the Legitimists.
He has lately discarded the use of razors, and trims
his beard like Henry IV. which gives him a singular
likeness to the portraits of fho Roi Vert Galant.
Under the signature of Eugene Foroade, the
revue des Deux Mondes, of February, 1863, pub-
lished an article of his on the cotton crisis in Eng
land. He also published “ Les Associations
Ouvrieres en Angleterre” (Trades Unions). His
principal work is “ La Guerre Civile en AmjSrique
in eight volumes. The Comtesse de Paris is her
husband’s first cousin, being the daughter of the
Due de Montpensler and an Infanta of Spain, tall
and elegant, she possesses the marked features of
the Bourbons even in a stronger degree than her
husband. She is extremely domestic, an excellent
horsewoman, very fond of field sports, a good
shot, and excels in danoing. The children are four
in number. The eldest, Princesse AnnSlie, was
born at Twickenham, 1865. The next, a son, Louis
Philippe Robert, Duo d’Orl4ans, was also born at
Twickenham, 1869. Until the promulgation of the
Thibaudin decree turning the Princes of Orleans
out of the army (a decree which the Comte de
Paris forestal'ed by previously resigning his
colonelcy in the Armde Territoriale), the young
Prinoe was being educated at the College Stanislas.
Since that edict he has worked with a tutor. The
third child is a girl of twelve, named H4lfene. The
baby, two years old, is the only one of the children
born in France.


W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
/
,? *i <
T 1
mntßm
*S«Ms
Wr'l
c-illii?
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
FOR
ANY
INSTRUMENT.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
I/If Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
n, mm, ill mm Min,
397 GEORGE STREET,
66 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, BYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOP ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Eounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed..
PUMPS,
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Baw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
Joiners’ and Mortieing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Laud Rollers, Horse
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Com and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries. —Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes and
Masury's celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrugated
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists. ’
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 Georgs Street, Sydney.
BULL-DOG ALB.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand lirst in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
line, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
against traders who for the sake of an extra
prolit represent the common beers referred to
as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTKLL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents : WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
WRIGHT,HEATON&CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.;
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn
Yaas
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundrh
Junee
Waff fra Wagga
Hanging Kook
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
Western District, N.S.W.s
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymaoree
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Ur alia
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Central Lin*:
Rockhampton
Rogantungaii
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Kavenawootk Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH & CO., LIMITED.
VT Agencies in all parts of the world.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
GOULBURN GRAND ART UNIOM,
No. 1.
£16,875. £16,875.
16,875 Subscribers at £1 each.
ONE PUIZE FOR NEARLY EVERY 80 TICKETS.
lift Prize, .£1(000 ; 2nd, £3OCC ; 3rd, £2OOO ; 4th
£lB7O ; sth, £lOOO. 214 prizes from £5OO to £l2los.
For tickets, apply to
A. W. BULLEN,
P.O. Box 51, Goulburn, N.S.W.
N B.—Add exchange and stamp for reply. Full
particulars in “Town and Country Journal” of
12th April.
MASON BROTHERS,
22
14 and 16 Spring Street.
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for SALK
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA R E,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80RIN and CO.’S
Cognao.
J. T GAYISN’S
Sobmpps and Geneva.
A. MEJ.ViN and SONS’
Edinbmgn Pale 6ie.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA
STOUT.
m
%
'V<
it)
BABB PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINB'I
MERCHANTS.
Yirgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
MOULTON’S
FRUIT
KIUTIT TM?'^cF LA Jr NT PoSitivel y cured b r MOULTON'S
l KUil 1 ILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disap,».ntm e nte M O UL TON ’ s FRUIT PILLS also cur.
npTioT i j fOUSNLSS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
-1 EPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
in™ lg V T C^n, C 3 ot dis OKDERS of the STOMACH,
stnnuiate the LIVER, reguinte the BOWELS, and PURIFS?
IHE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicin.
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
Ihey are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sol.l Everywhere, Price 1«. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
2
Vj
DC
MA
BOAR’S HEAD STOtJT.-This favourite brana
of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the celebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
excelled. To be procured everywhere.
OATTRLL * CO„ Bole Agents.
Marshall’s
TONIC NERVINE
RFQIRTKHKD.
Am SAFE, CERTAIN. & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that Bpring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Toothnche. Nervousness. Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes ami gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case,
field everywhere Sole Proprietors. MARSHALL
BROTHERS, M.P.8., Manufacturing Chemiris,
104 and 100 Market-street, near Hyde Park.
Rvdnev. n n.— All lmitatloni Illegal. TAKE NO
SUBSTITUTE.


C 3
o,
O
4
~D
Vi
3]
3:
CO
#3
o
“n
co
K(S
o
□
=0
3:
3>
O
CO
rn
Prepared according to the directions ot Peoi.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENBED FOR
dyspepsia, headache, indigestion,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS
WEAKENED ENERGY, &0.
I3F” No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Tl _ . Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce It a very valuable addition. I find It use-
ful and beneficial In nervous dyspepsia, nervousp
depression following overwork and anxiety, as welli
as the gastric derangements. Where there is'
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
_ , , Boston, Mass., May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the >
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and ;
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880 j
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com’--
position, stands unrivalled, it is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£a,g-ic Oil,
THK BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
44 It Works like a Charm.”
It la not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, bu
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, B>heumatiiin r
Crick in the Neck or Baok.
As an internal remedy It tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyo-
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American'
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have*
gained throughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected andi
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Beoause the iron-work oonsists of the very test'
steel and Norway iron, severely tested beioie*
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the bert No. 1'
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their l;nish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under specie?
instructions to, and personal supervision or •
one of the leading carriage builders inAmerica,-
and specially constructed for the Australian-
climate
And because all who use them say thby a bi th#
bust.
American Carriage Emporium*
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON .MOXHAM A CO„
tala Agcntt
An Eye for the Beautiful.
RAMBLINO REFLECTIONS OF A NAUGHTY OLD MAN.
People may talk about the advantages of
having “an eye for the beautiful,” and ail that
sort of thing, but for my part I think there’s no
greater drawback to the happiness of a man well
advanced in years than the possession of that
description of optic. For, you must understand,
I’m getting on a bit now—not that I feel it, because
my heart's just as young as ever it was; but still
I am— there's no escaping from the melancholy
fact. Even if mirrors had never been invented,
and people made their toilets while standing over
a stream, like Narcissus, I believe I could distin-
guish quite enough of my reflection to realise that
ft was that cf an old ’un. It would have to be an
uncommonly muddy bit of water that made me
out anything else, you know. And, of course, the
same remarks hold good about Mary Anne, seeing
that we were both of an age when we married—
and that’s just where the trouble comes in. Having
an eye for the beautiful, you see, poor Mary Anne
doesn’t “fill” it in the manner she used to do; I
wish she did, for it’s awfully amusiDg for an old
fellow (not but what my heart’s as young as ever
it was) to find himself discontented with the missus
merely on account of his artistic sensibility, it
really is. An eye for the beautiful, somehow,
never seems to grow dim, at least mine doesn’t,
for although I’m getting uncommonly weak-
sighted in the matter of reading small print, I can
still see, beaming through the distance of some
fifty years, the bewitching face of Mary Anne on
her wedding day, so when I compare it with the
one opposite me at dinner, I get downright sad,
and feel a nasty gnawing pain at the heart, en-
tirely attributable to that organ being “as young
as,ever it was.” In fact I think it’s owing as much
to my youthful heart, as “the eye,” that I con-
tinue to take such a strange personal interest in a
pretty girl, at a period of life when I ought
(according to Mary Anne—not that I pay much
attention to what she says) to be thinking about
selecting a tombstone, we’re always quarrelling
on the subject, somehow. Perhaps, for in-
stance, we may be riding together in a “tram”
when a lovely girl will get in, too, (lovely
girls have a habit of go ting into trams, I always
think). Well, under such circumstances, it’s only
natural that an old fellow (with an eye for the
beautiful) should take a fatherly pleasure in start-
ing a conversation with such an interesting object;
or, perhaps, if the vehicle’s overcrowded, suggest
“ an old man's knee ” »s a safe and suitable resting
place. But you ought to see Mary Anne’s face on
these occasions, it’s less like what it was when I
married her than ever, and she won’t listen to
reason either. If I attempt to explain, after
wards, that the young and lovely bone of conten-
tion attracted my attention solely in consequence
of a striking resemblance to herself, at the same
age, Mary Anne merely calls me an “ old fool.” Or,
perhaps, she’ll say, “Stuff and nonsense, why, I
used to be as fair as a lily, and that little creature
was as brown as a gipsy.” There’s no pleasing
Mary Anne on such matters—women are so un-
reasonable. And that’s another thing, by the bye,
an old woman’s unreasonableness has nothing
“taking” about it. Now, I can remember that
when Mary Anne was first married there was
no prettier sight (to me, with my eye for
the beautiful) than M.A. in her “tantrumsit
was quite a different spectacle to tho old woman
when she's “ riled,” quite different, I can assure
you. My eye for the beautiful is getting a con-
stant source of irritation to me. in the domestic
circle; and though I do tho best I can for it by
insisting, positively insisting, upon the engage-
ment of go id-looking housemaids, still I’m allowed
very few opportunities of appreciating their
beauty. No matter how much tneir lips remind
me of Mary Anne’s (when we were first married),
she never appears to understand my natural senti-
ments. When she caught me trying to snatch just
one, she hurt my feelings dreadfully, ’pon my
word, by calling me a slippery old sinner; for,
although, as already remarked, I don’t pay much
attention to what Mary Anne says, it isn’t nice to
be called names like that.
The Gympie Miner in discussing “ Mr.
Griffith and the Courier” advances to the height
of itsgreatargumentin excruciatingly high falutin
fustian. “In this instance as in others, says the
G.M., “ he (Griffith) allowed his passions to outrun
his calmer reason (quite true), and has shattered
his high reputation into brilliant fragments upon
the altar of his antagonism.” Hurroo I
A Wesleyan parson at Pyramid Hill (Vie.),
has been presented with a cheque for £3O, to “enable
him to replace one of his horses that was acci-
dently killed a few weeks ago.” After that we
shall gratefully acknowledge any cheques that may
be sent along to enable us to “ replace ” our poets.
Every other week, on an average, there is one
“accidently killed” in this office—with a hammer.
A cheque for £3O will go a good long way in poets.
It strikes us as a pieeb of official stupidity
that a first class detective should be specially at-
tached to the General Post Office, and his salary
placed on the postal estimate, why could not a
detective or detectives be detailed from the Police
Force for postal service as occasionally required ?
In this way, there would be a possibility of the
needful police surveillance being performed with
a maximum of secrecy. The present arrange-
ment seems to have been devised to secure a
minimum of that article.
Thus a correspondent of the Daily News,
Writing from Trinkitat:—“ A spy was discovered
outside our camp lying on the sand. Although
only a boy of 15 years, he fought desperately when
surrounded. He was himself bayoneted, and Is
not expected to recover. His gallant behaviour
exoited the admiration of tho entire force. When
asked if he wanted anything, ho replied, ‘Let me
spear one Egyptian before I die.’ 'I his reminds us
of Sydney Smith, who when lying on his death-bed
in extreme prostration deolared that ho felt so
feeble that were any one to lend him a knife he
would scarcely be able to stick it into a dissenter.
We all know that “a bit of inusliu ” has
always been peculiarly attractive when located on
a section of the anatomy of the living, but a cute
Yankee has struck the notion of working it in, in
connection with the dead. He lines graves with
it, making them look as cheerful a 3 a damsel's
boudoir, and giving the corpse the idea that he’s
just rolling into a cosy bed. This is what we may
call mus-lin’ the very gloom of death—in fact,
quite taking the starch out of it; and proclaiming
at the very door of the sepulchre, “No mangling
done here to the tender hearts of relatives, or the
restbetic feelings of the corpse.” But enough—
though wo could write a grave yard of stuff over
this grave business.
This is how an indiscreet “ Capting ” of the
Salvation Harmy gave away his brethren in the
“ swingle ” the other day in one of our suburbs.
In the height of pious perspiration, he yelped:
“ Those who have gold will, I trust, be helped by
God to give it; those who have no gold, can give
silver; those who have no silver, can give copper;
and those who have nothing to give, can rise and
go.” Just so.—
If there’s gold within your purses,
And you would escape Hell's curses,
Plank it down;
Thus, though you in sin be hoary,
You can buy a pass to glory,
And Heaven’s crown.
If silver you only hold now,
And you’d slip into the fold now,
piank it down;
Gold is great, but silver still will
Save you from a fierce God’s ill-will,
And Christ’s frown.
If you’ve only heavy brass there,
Still there’s hone you’ll crib a pass there;
Plank it down;
Brass makes poor celestial fuel,
ttill, it may prevent you to Hell
Plunging down.
But if you hold naught of lucre
To give, with you it is euchre,
And your knell;
Hook it from our holy meeting,
And -not e’en the devil cheating—
Go to Hell!
Last week, at Cripps’s Inn, Parramatta,
some of the ceiling of the billiard-room fell on
one of the tables. This is how the local Fergy
treated the incident. After waddling around the
bare fact, he asserts (tf la Laurence Boythorn) that
* The fallen plaster discloses as shameful a piece of
scoundrelly workmanship as ever was perpetrated
by the most rascally contractor on a confiding
employer, consisting as it docs of 90 parts sand.
9 parts loam, 0*95 lime, and 0 05 hair. If there is any
law or justice can reach this latest example ot the
Australian working man, we sincerely Mr.
Cripps will be able to sheet it home to him.”
There’s no doubt about i’ergy (when primed with
Cripps’s sp iritus frumenti) being an admirable
judge of plaster, but why his comprehensive down
on the Australian working man ? One “scamping”
plasterer is n o more to be taken as a sample of the
Australian working man than one bar-haunting
ink-slinger is to be regarded as typical of the Aus
i ralian litterateur.
At Wellington (N.Z.), a young man em-
ployed as a clerk in a shipping office parted his
hair in the middle, borrowed a clean dickey and
popped the question to a beautiful young lady,
the daughter of an old, respected, and middling
QUITE A LITILE PROPERTY.
HE (after osculation, to small boy who suddenly appears from behind the tree):
“Here’s a shilling for you, my boy. I suppose you can hold your tongue”
SMALL BOY : “I won’t say nothink. Not likely. Why, she's been worth three ’arf-
crowns to me a’ready!”
wealthy citizen of that town. The lady was
willing, the parents consented, and a day was
ilxed for the splicing operation to be performed.
The clerk represented himself to be a man of
means, had £ll,OOO cash to his credit in England,
besides several estates in landed property lett him
by his father. It was necessary, he said, that he
should go to the old country immediately after the
marriage to get possession of the property, and he
proposed to take his bride with him. To enable
him to do this, he required his intended father-in-
law to endorse a bill for him for £4oo—just as a
matter of form, of course—but the old bird was
wary, and declined the snare. However, the
preparations for the marriage went on, the young
lady got all her boxes ready for the voyage, the
Jmung man himself put tickets on them, and then
eft her to take out their passages for London.
Next morning they were to be married, and he
was to show up at a certain hour, and bring a
clergyman with him. A splendid wedding break-
fast was prepared, but neither bridegroom nor
clergyman came. Enquiries were made, and it was
found that no tickets for England had been taken
out. The clerk had been dismissed from his em-
ployment for some time, and it was ascertained
that he had disappeared from Wellington and gone
AN OMINOUS OUTLOOK.
PETEST: "Don't you know that you should lay up your treasures in heaven, Mrs.
Quiun!"
MISERLY WIDDY: “Ocb, where I’d niver see thim agin!”
on board a ship which left the port on the evening
jreviousto his intended marriage. He is now work-
ng his passage to the old country as assistant cook.
The young lady, who has been lucky enough to
escape alliance with this contemptible scullion, is
to be congratulated. Let her cheer up. Shipping,
insurance, Government, and bank clerks are more
numerous in Wellington than in any other cit» in
the world with ten times the population. The
place actually swarms with them, but—here’s the
rub-it would take at least a baker’s dozen of them
to maintain one wife respectably. Consequently,
we would advise the young lady next time to look
out for a journalist or a commission agent. We are
a journalist ourselves, wo have been a commission
agent, and we are still single, notwithstanding the
Slural way in which we write. This is leapyeai.
eed we say more, except that our address is at
the Bulletin Office, Sydney, and we may add
that we just pine down to our boots for a father-
in-law whose name would be considered good in a
bill for £4OO.
“ Mr. Herbert Spencer has declined an in-
vitation to become a candidate for the representa-
tion of Leicester, on the ground that he could not
consent to become a mere delegate, and his politi-
cal views being divergent from those of all
existing political parties, he could satisfy none of
them.” Now, we had thought better of Herbert.
Here is a man turned of three score—a learned
man, a man who has had the unparalleled firmness
to steer clear of matrimony, and the intellect to
write a system of philosophy compared to which
the profoundest dissertations of Parkes or Mel-
ville are light reading—if they can be read -here,
we say, is a man of world-wide reputation,
staggered at an obstacle that would make Perry,
or Picton, or young Caulfield laugh themselves to
death to think of Mr Spencer cannot complain
of want of fair play in this paper, and we are sure
it is more in sorrow tha - > in aDger that we have to
plead with him. and when he remembsrs that it is
only a few weeks ago since we gave him a whole
leader to himself, he will, perhaps, refrain from
throwing things around and kicking the cat when
he sticks up this Bulletin in front of his coffee
cup, and roars to the cook to minimise the adum-
bration of that scrubbing brush, and c volve a silent
environment while he adapte l the external chop
to his internal relations, physically speak'ng, and
concentrated his perception on the toughest
journal of this age. He * cannot consent to be-
come a mere delegate.” Think of that. Ste-
vens, and Hammond, and A. G. the long,
of you, in short; and then see
whether you have lost anything by being
initiated with the notions of this much—lauded
old man s philosophy. That’s what comes of
delving and digging away into the history of
op mons and the methods of politics. While he
, fep ?S l t out from the social insti-
tutions ot all nations tho causes of the Droaress
declina, and fall of states and peoples, hf has
?hot'h 1 Q^ a on ’y *° arrlve at the conclusion
that he can t see his way clear to going into Par-
- Ih A mn ilotiWllot 1 o t i W 1 ii h hf ea / conBcience - while we, following
the plain light of common sense, are “in,” and
delving like wombats away for port-folios. And
{£?’«nm?Jh? OCen ? e of the poor old book-worm-
lt s enough to make a man split his sides—his poli-
tical views divergent from those of all political
parties—we can scarcely go on—why what has
got to do with the case ? Here the beauty of
the joke is, we don t get in on account of our
views agreeing with those of the voter-or with
“Ki J?ous avows change tout ceia-we
have no political views to chamre. We follow the
sentiment ot Tito in George Eliot’s “HomoTa"-
I erceiving the equal hollowness of both
parties, Tito adopted the only rational course
in making - them subservient to his own
ends.” Away with the dusty foibles of tbe
study, and c?me out into tho open air. How
is a man even to get into a place where he can
have a slap at his enemies under cover of privi-
leg"?, or get billet* for such of his sons as are crip-
pled or idiotic, or how is a man to get a bit of
land or do a tidy little thing in agencies by bounc-
ing out information in the Land’s Office—if he is
to be kept back by political opinions from taking
a seat ? No, Ist every man that loves his country,
whilst still retaining a sneaking regard for him-
self, get up in the Domain and spout temperance,
or turn alderman, then do a little bit of local
preaching, so as to have the electioneering going
on all the year round, and then let him listen to
the still small voice within, “Go to, thou art an
orator, thou canst saw the air with thy hand with
here and there a one—thou art profoundly igno-
rant of everything relating to Government, thou
hast no political opinions, and canst not even
understand the questions of tho day. Thy lungs
are tough, thy conscience (I that speak to thee)
tougher; a good, all-round liar, and—it will put
money in thy purse, stand, stand, stand.” “Dif-
ferent opinions I”—ha Iha I Herbert, much learn-
ing hath made thee mad.


THE
IGNO
I?ist,a3.o_
'T
MW***
m
THE
ipi^^to
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
pi^^to
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
migrnon
PIA2TO
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
■W ilmer
PliiUO
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY I
PERFECTION OF TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF I
THE
PIAITO
lllustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
“ WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
he had on application.
nighqlsonT and go.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
C. B. MODINI,
Cun Maker & Cutler.
W TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT Btock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angela Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will boob be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
M
ETROPOLITAN ART UNION.
To be digposod of by subscription on the Art
Union principle, by permission of the Hon. the
Attorney-General,
£5250 WORTH OP PICTURES, £5250
. . In 5000 Shares of £1 Is. each,
comprising Landscapes and Portraits by the best
European and Colonial Artists.
, , Committee:
Augustus Morris, Esq. I R. W. Robertson, Esq.
E. H. C. Bristowe, Esq. | W. T. Bennett, Esq.
J. A. Parker, Esq.
Ist £, r l ze > valued at £lOOO ; 2nd Prize, valued at
£750; 3rd Prize, valued at £500; 20 Prizes at £25
each, £500; 50 Prizes at £lO each, £500; 400
Prizes at £5 each, £2OOO-£5250.
The drawing-will take place on MONDAY, 26th
May, under the directions of a committee to bo
elected by the subscribers. Purchasers will be
found for all prizes over £lO, at a commission of
10 per cent., should the winner prefer selling.
Pictures will be exhibited for a fortnight before
the drawing, notice of which will be duly adver-
tised. Winning numbers will appear in all the
leading papers. Applications for tickets to be
“ade to the undersigned to Box 606, G.P.0.; or
105 Pitt-street, Sydney.
W. T. BENNETT,
J. A. PARKER, jTreasurers.
i Ingham’s jl
«l Euphorbia
tLIJLI f ERA f\
' 0 ' Ullf FNSI AND Cuflf
% Asthma. PnoNCHms
rnilr.ue
Jt
Y
*
// \‘\
hot Water 6aths
HAW nh'f ;SINC “V/ICMAKINL I SMBLISHMCNT
/ 15/139 4141 OXFORD \S T .
HAL F HOL /Of\ Y Fl/ASf Y THUFt SOA Y
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
v Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SURbEON DENTILS | O 6 MARKET ST E.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on hy the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anesthetics.
Black Swan Hotel.
GREEN WELL POINT.
A J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
IRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, Ashing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnitlcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TT ja. dertalrer,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
U 3T 3 Brass and Bell Pounding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies* Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Brigher writes from Kirby, 0..
July 3,1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time I became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
entirely'bald.”
J. W. Bowen-, proprietor of the McArthur
{Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within mv
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.” )
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “Fairbairn Family” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Jifass., Feb. C,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which fleeting
time procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness—a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
lias continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of it 3 value.
, PREPARED BY
Dr.J C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
R
OJBERT BUTCHER
(Late William Long),
&
C O.
vr WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
BLEND
[TRADfI
,-4i
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
Ditung fulness of body, with piq uancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
Hr 308 GEORGE STREET.
01 &8eoktiW!i«$
WHOLESALE
OHOCEB
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
BtJLTAN’B COFFEE.
AFTEFI OEFORE
K
Copyrighted .
IiOUSTACHE andWHIGEEES.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this,and
will do it on either bald head or
bare /ace. Forces heavy Mans .
tar he in from 2 to 4 weeks and never
/ails, 20,000 young vien already
- - - weur full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. No injury , easily applied, tertain in effect,
each, 3 for 3 s. 6 d.,post paid. sent under cover, free from observation .
jAddre.se, Frank Douglni, Sole Agent,Box 730, 0.8.0., W>
Copyrighted
Packet $ I*. 6a
Bavarian
Hop Bitters
B
Specially adapted for the
AUSTRALIAN CLIMATE.
THE BEST IN THE WORLD.
Use No Other.
A PERFECTLY PURE STIMULANT.
Cure For INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS,
And LIVER COMPLAINTS.
Read
Medical Testimony and
Analytical Reports.
THE ONLY
HOP BITTERS THE DOCTORS
RECOMMEND.
To Be Had of All CHEMISTS,
CROCERS, and
WINE MERCHANTS.
B H
B H
B
Bavarian
Hop Bitters
PAPERBANGING S!
with
DADOES. BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, AO.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead. Oils, Paints, Colours, Var*
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &o.
ALCOCK&CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
CHARLES WSSI ill CO.,
375 George-st., Sydney.
ET TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED.
m
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops Instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
Be rve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
rrv, » . i /• . . ....
_ vi. mi j.uwuv;xuc r duuun.
Caution.—To guard agaAmt fraudulent imitations,
Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
ee that each
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London.
DE
suiHONoyg 'Honoo'vwHisv
One of these Cigarettes gives Immediate relief In
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at nigh£
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them Invaluable, as they Instantly cheek th®
spasm, promote sleep, and allow th© patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
patient* e8 ’ children, and most delicato
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
sf* 2S**2<* box hears the name of “ Wilcox ana
Co., 389 Oxford-street, London


RUNNING SORE
I had the misfortune of having my leg broken,
In front of William Sterns's dry-goods storo, by a
case of goods being thrown on me. The bone was
set by a physician of this place. Upon removing
the splints, sores broke out from my knee to the
heel, and several physicians called it varicose veins,
and ordered me to wear rubber stockings. After
wearing out about $25, worth of different makes
without any signs of any cure, I bought the Cuti-
cuka Remedies for the purpose, as I expressed it
at the time, to bo humbugged again. Before half
had been used I was astonished to see the sores
heal up one by one, and now not one sore is to be
seen. I recommended the same to a neighbouring
lady who had been troubled for years with a sore
wrist. After using hundreds of remedies she is
completely cured.
Doveu.N.H, HENRY l4niv;kek.
HEAD IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buclm, Mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
* earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
1 Mon, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
* drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘ and no person or family should be
* without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
GRAHA
TiilLOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment
613, late 631, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice tho superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
ittt.t., Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces,
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wiH suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
lam, Sir
Yourobedient Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, &C.
PRICE.. .! " .. 2S. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, &C.
13 ERSKINE STREET.
7r>M Vr W TT nOTTT.. orw4 oil
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nunquam Dormio.
Years ago, I was a burly bobby In the Melbourne
force, . .
And I strictly did my duty. Through the prigging
And my catching of the covey, I was made a
bloomin’ “ D.,”
When my pride and pomp and swagger were mag-
nitieent to see.
I looked wiser than a judge could, guessed I knew
a thing or two; , ,
To each robbery and murder always had a secret
clue. ,
There’s a certain cricket ground that's in the
neighbourhood of town,
Where the gents, gets playin’ cricket to earn
money or renown.
They are dressed up all in flannel togs, and pads
tied on their legs,
And their coats and things they hang up in aroom,
on wooden pegs.
Some improper party took to prigging purses from
their ooats,
Watches, rings, and pins, and money—copper,
silver, gold, or notes.
As they couldn’t nab the feller, they requested
that a “JD.”
Should be sent to clear the thing up. The authori-
ties sent me. _ j j
So they showed me to a room that held —a row of
wooden pegs, „ 1
Washhand-stand, and brace of chairs with very
seedy-looking legs. , ,
“ Gentlemen, there ain’t no sofa; where the deuce
am Ito hide? ~ A 1
If you don’t get one at once, 1 11 sling the blessed
case,” I cried.
Bo they got one, and I crawled beneath it; for my
artful plan . . . . ,
Was, if any chap come prigging, to jump out and
nail the man. ,„ .
Then the players came and hung their coats and
other togs as well; _
One, the latest, from his pocket took a flask and
took a smell, .. _ , , ,
Took a sip, and took and put it in his pocket back
again;
Bulging out from his breast-pocket, I could twig
it very plain. _
Put I wasn t there for liquor—l was there to nab a
And, h if f l should take a drop of comfort, I might
come to grief. T
No one came; the day was sultry; I got dry and
awful baked,
And, from my confined position, all my precious
carcase ached.
go I crawled out just to stretch my limbs, and
then—l locked the door,
Took the flask and took a sip, and found I never
had before, , . ~
'Spite all my great experience, tackled such celes-
AndFdpofished off the whisky long before I’d had
Then 1 lUcreptI U crept back to my hiding-place, but first
unlocked the door,
Took the sofa cushion with me, and felt better
than before.
When I woke, I saw with wonder and alarm the
door was closed— .. . , T
oould swear that I had set it open wide before I
Tnen° I G gazed upon the pegs, and found no single
garment left — , „
und the players both of money and of raiment
were bereft.
, ishivered as a draught came thro the key-
hole of the door;
I glanced down on my person, and I greatly
fear I swore. j . . . , . . . . ~
Whilst I slopt, the thief had stripped me, kindly
leaving me my shirt;
For his kindness I was grateful, yet I did feel
And Soften think that if that whisky had not been
To the noble army of De-tectives I might yet
belong.
MofiAL.
If you, Bobby, on a nobby chanoe of whisky free
should stumble, . ,
Do not take enough to make yo prone beneath the
table tumble; , , . , . .
Just you wait and prot home straight, and no one
but your wife can grumble.
Selina.
[A LEGEND OF “THE DRAPERY.”]
Selina was a charming maid,
Her eyes they glistened brightly,
Selina’s gowns were nicely made,
Her boots, too, fitted tightly,
The curls they clustered round her face,
Without the aid of papers;
She used to serve behind the lace,
At Silk and Stuff's, the drapers.
’Twas natural that one so neat,
80 winsome, trim, and slender.
So nice about the hands and feet,
Bhould feel the passion tender;
Sheworshipped Kid (who “bought the gloves )
A cheerful kind of chappie—
Till fortune frowned upon their loves,
They used to be so. happy.
But fair Selina’s figure smart—
Those shining eyes, those tresses—
Played havoc,with the jealous heart
Of Jenkins (in the “dresses );
He liked Selina best, you know,
Of all the girl “ assistants,
Though, as she had another beau,
He loved but at a distance.
Yet, every day would Jenkins pray
(’Tis very sad, this story)
That he might find a speedy way
Of sending Kid to glory;
He lay in wait, one evening, late,
For Kid, and fairly naboed him,
Then—rendered mad by jealous hate—
Ho (with his scissors) stabbed him.
Yes, stabbed him through, and left no clue
Which could excite suspicion,
Nor ever felt—’twixt us and you—
One pang of real contrition;
Though, when Selina wept and sighed,
Around her ho would hover—
RomarkiDg (in a “ stage aside )
How much ho mourned her lover.
And many gentle sighs he’d drop—
His depth of woe revealing—
Till all the girls about the shop t>
Pronounced him full of fccuiw ,
He spoke of Kid with such concern
(While tears his vision blinded),
Selina's heart was bound to turn
To one so simple-minded.
When Kid was dead almost a year,
Selina’s smile was pleasant
If Jenkins whispered in her ear
Or bought a “ little preseut.
I For though, sometimes, her tears would start
At old, sad recollections,
He, somehow, healed her broken heart,
And won her young affections.
So, e’en upon the very day
That Kid had gone to glory,
Selina donned a garment gay
(We said ’twas sad— this story),
And went to church with faithful J ,
Which crowned their mutual blisses—
Oh! none so happy now, they say,
As Jenkins and his “missus.
(The moral ol' this is-“JJe sure your sin will find
you out.”)
Wanted, a Hellflrist.
“ The other day, the Edinburgh Parochial Board
dismissed the chaplain of Craiglockhart Poor-
house, because he refused to preach eternal
punishment to the inmates. The unfortunate man,
having a wife and family, and being dependent
upon nis own salary, formally recanted his ob-
noxious views, and ‘ solemnly promised to preach
and teach such simple Gospel truths as the manage-
ment may deem most suitable.’ He humbled him-
self in vain; he might have known that to forgive
a prostrate enemy is not in the nature of an austere
Presbyterian. He was sent about his business, in
spite of his fourteen years’ service. The salary
of the post is £l3O a year, with apartments, coal,
and gas. There are forty-eight applicants for it,
including ten ministers, twelve missionaries, nine
teachers, eight divinity students, one gardener,
four small merchants, and one retired Major of
Dragoons.” Exchange. Joolyeran 1 our con-
certina
They rise in righteous wrath, and from their door
“This faithless steward and his offspring spurneth,
Who will not preach to God’s afflicted poor
The wholesome prospect of the lake that burneth.
This recreant, hired to pour in pauper ears
A doctrine harsh of taste as salts and senna,
Who goes right back upon his trust, and cheers
Their hearts by saying there is no Gehenna.
This pastor, paid in Presbyterian gold
By stern-faced Scotchmen wearing black bell-
toppers,
So that the story may be strongly told
Of God’s sure vengeance upon palsied paupers;
This Shepherd of a starving flock, employed
To stand before Hope's door, a huge Goliath,
And tell them how His foes shall be destroyed,
And dwell upon the worm that never dieth;
This Chaplain, bribed with two-pound-ten a week
To teach sick vagrants duo respect to show to
The Board, then bid them turn the other cheek,
And tell them where they’re pretty sure to go to!
Who, understood to hold the views of Knox,
And fight Freethought in its minutest phases,
Turns round, and his employers’ feeling shocks
By having doubts about Eternal Blazes 1
This shuffler, found in house and gas and coal,
To be a stero, unpitying informant
Of mendicants, that the immortal soul,
Unsaved, is safe to feel immortal torment;
Who, daring to consider things himself,
Esteems the law of God’s own Book a bad law,
And puts His anger back upon the shelf,
And preaches sermons worthy Bright or Brad-
laugh]
INSENSIBILITY.
JUSTLY INCENSED PROPRIETRESS: “Ugh! ye provokin’ critters! I wonder ye’re not
ashamed to eat, and you not laying, with that placard staring you in the face all day.”
This humbug, bid to preach that paupers must
Win Heavenly bread by Faith—as earthly by
work —
Then tells, instead, of a Creator just,
Who doesn’t always go for “ hip and thigh
work;
This fraud, told off to paint the woe to come
To toothless beldames marshalled by the Beadle,
Who says the Saviour doesn’t make things “huin
For souls in Hell, when once He gets * the
needle!”
They rise as one, this deeply-injured Board,
And cry “ Depart! ye are no more a watchman
Of souls for us, who misconstrue the Lord
As differing at heart from any Scotchman.
Whereto replies the trembling Chaplain, “I
Was wrong, but for the future they shall smell
fire
And brimstone—l will threaten all who die
In sin, with towering incandescent Hell-fire.
“ I may have given them hope—if it be so,
I’ll turn on the despair, if you should will it,
And make the sparks fly up from down below;
But, oh I I pray you let me keep the billet!
For fourteen years I’ve been your Chaplain, and
Have but this work to bar off hunger s wolf. Ere
You answer, listen I You need but command.
And I will tip them something big in sulphur.”
In vain, they listen not. They advertise
For one to grind out Gospel for the poorhouse;
One not inclined to use his own two eyes,
Or speculate as far as Bishop Moorhouse.
Four dozen applicants! Above, you’ll see
What they were like, but we will make a wager
We’ll spot the winner, for you’ll all agree
Hell’s just the opening for an av’rage Major.
A Ballad of the Ballet.
Let us tell you in a hurry
That her name was Sarah Murray,
Though as Sally in this ballad she 11 be known,
And we hope she will excuse us,
For the freedom that we use is
Rather much for short acquaintance wo will own.
She was moving—we’ll not lure you
On until we reassure you
That this lay will burn and leave no moral ash,
(We are none of your John Bunyans)
In the sphere of steak and onions,
And the very highest circles of dry hash.
Yes, a waitress was our Sally,
Just a slave in the cook’s galley,
Much less redolent of roses than of stews :
True, she had romantic yearnings,
But it took most of her earnings
To keep her in striped stockings and in shoes.
Still, she had some small romances,
Made of giggles and of glances,
When the clerks sat down with weak pretence ot
phlegm,
While with ham-bones they did dally
They would ogle pretty Sally,
And pretty Sally she would ogle them.
And with each high-collared lisper
She would whisper still, and whisper,
While her curls across the butter-dish did droop :
Oh to hear their airy chaff then I
Oh to hear their lightsome laugh then I
As they spooned with her while spooning in the
soup.
With their watch-chains hung with nickels,
How they patronised the pickles,
And chewed with condescension the corned
beef 1
And their lips were wreathed with laughter,
Also cabbage, as they chaffed her
On the side they didn’t eat at—past belief!
How she did pass out and enter,
Undulating down the centre
Of the halls of dazzling hash, amid the talk,
With a smile that seemed eternal,
Just as in the London Journal
All the duchesses invariably walk.
But when she a poor reporter
Saw. who hadn’t time to court her,
Hiding furtively his shiilingsworth of beef,
She would crush him with proud glances,
Like the countess in romances
Smiling icy scorn upon the burglar-chief.
She made captive all affections
By awaking recollections
Of the past—the very dress that she had on,
The neat gown that did enrobe her,
Like the dame’s in Gustave Flaubert,
Was a chronicle of dinners dead and gone.
And to one with any feeling
There was that in her appealing
To the soul—for just to see her was a meal!
And, indeed, it was our duty
To say Sally was a beauty,
Though her charms too oft were seen behind a
veal.
But when the clerks had quitted.
The corned-beef brigade had llitted,
Leaving only wrecks of “tucker” in the halls,
She stood a lonely figure—
Not unlike Macauley's nigger
A-surveying of the ruins of St. Paul’s.
Then her own small dinner after,
With the others, and their laughter
At our Sally lor her aspirations high !
And some told their little passions,
Some were deep in plates of fashions,
And others deeper still in plates of pie.
But—oh hang it, this is weary !
(There are times ev’n tve are dreary)
Let us say she dreamt of ballerinas’ luck ;
And, the matter not to mince too,
She would wed a Russian prince too,
Just like them, to be her own muscovy duck.
Well, she went into the ballet,
Did our sentimental Sally,
And she got a pound a week, or thereabout—
But she found no one to court her,
Save an amorous light-porter,
But Sally had a preference for stout.
Have we heard aught of her since then ?
Did she wed a ltussian prince then ?
She did not—she wed a skittle-aliey sharp
Whose hands with rings were blazing
In a manner most amazing—
Hand us now the No. 7 woeful harp.
Oh, a curse upon the ballet,
And alas for silly Sally,
For her husband drew her cheque, which he did
smash
Ev’ry pay-night in strong liquor,
And would then come home and kick her—
Oh, romantic girls take warning—stfc/c to hash.


%C// WHISKEY!
premier whiskey is
At J 5041 AND CAMERON’S
Matured
QIIALIT * unsurpassed.
•* IY BROTHERS,
Pn * x T.S.W. and Queensland,
“i'sa^^OOTOHWmsHKS
e#r 9o Street, Sydney
%, «e Irish Whiskey
jo &CO.-S DUBLIN WHISKEY
DSPASSED -
l^ot’h^^nsumil 03 * Ex PGrt at the Distillery,
yP*®o in the W? &y I ! *‘ :ierefore » ro ly that ii
tel 0 * “Whiskey Doctors.”
B oie A^ aly Br ®thers,
** for and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Went for
W. & C. SCOTT & Soils’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by Andon workmen.
C. COWLES, to? GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
p EAPES and SHAW
HAVE JUST RECEIVED THE
-Largest, choicest, and cheapest
B Shipment of
and Gentlemen’s Gloves
®ver landed by one firm in the colony of New South Wales.
They consist of Novelties in Ladies’ Gloves as follows:
Liter w
GLOVE
with
VELVET
%eol otirs aflf „
ft, %ois e °J lo ws .-—Dahlia, Roan, Slate,
VCr,r vn ' , ™ rtie -
L %'S. SAC glove, patent
s
“WB!Ia fp ■’ an,J evening shades.
%i lBi ‘ SUEDE GLOVES, 6,8, and 10
w an tllc 1
Wlou*. ea<^ng shades and fashionable
15 d'? RESSED KID GLOVES -
J I°W shade^ 01126 ’ erra Gotta, and other
il] ( ' l, nv f^ T of ollr Celebrated “FLORA”
%r
*V v r six button
is 3s 9d per pair.
( is 4s 11 per pair.
mtoefl° f COlour ’ and every pair
LADIES ’ and CHILD-
LLIjjg j '““ sln every shade of colour.
V ev 6r y SILK MITS, 25 inches
GENTLEMEN’S GLOVES,
For the Encampment
for Volunteers.
( White Dogskin Gloves
•< White Buckskin Gloves
( White Doeskin Gloves.
DENT’S GLADSTONE GLOVES,
Assorted Fashionable Shades of Tans and
Browns, two clasps, price, 3s 6d. per pair.
The above are with either black self-braid
points, made expressly for PEAPES and
SHAW, and are unrivalled for quality,
fit, make, or style.
DENT’S CHEVRETTE GLOVES,
Two clasps, all the new colours.
GENT.’S WHITE, FRENCH GREY, and FANCY
TINTED GLOVES,
For Evening Dress Wear, half-a-erown per
pair.
TWO-BUTTON WHITE and FRENCH GREY
EVENING. GLOVES,
WHITE and FRENCH GREY EVENING
GLOVES,
With the new double clasps.
Gent.’s New Driving Gloves, and Warm Winter
Gloves.
and SHAW,
GE STREET.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
V; r °uaall Stationers Storekeepers throughout the colonies
fj \jtg
n premises, 107 pitt street,
iTo'w O^en.
HOTEL,
K Of king and OASTEEREAGH STREETS.
McCt.EERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
“ or-siAißfi
°oo\
fyG.,,;,.
ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
i Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
'W >KQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
of Cigars, aad all Tobaooenista’ Sundries.
TOBACCO fVQ.RKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY*
SOHO BAZAAR ,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort.;
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, Cbixxaware, &c.,
Tricycles, Erench and German
Model Bolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Figures,
and all varieties of
EANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solb.o Bazaar
352 Oeer-ge Street
P. R. HGLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
(TJP H E MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & fee Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS FU3BuE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, a?
free from city contaminations.
Buffer.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
QUONS TMY & GO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tea IrtUsSs bitltis,
88, 29, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plant itions by
®ur own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending purchasers should visit ou r Tea Rooms
and sample for themselves before buying*
The ladies of the city will find our new rooms in
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
comfortable, and commodious, with prompt
attendants.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteralio-
and possessing all the agreeable qualities
f PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation.
icturcd by w< NORRIE.
Manu-
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
TRY BURGHS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for sell-measurmg
forwarded to any part of the colony.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869. f
INCORPORATED by ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital .J 300,000
Reserve Fund .'*133,500
Directors i v
The Hon. Sir John Bay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.M.G.
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngran, and Bourke.
London Branch : 153 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. I\ Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This hank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
REMEDIES THAT STOOD THE TEST FOR
CENTURIES.
German mineral Wafers,
4s. 6d. FEB, DOZEN.
LITHI4-WATER, for Gout
POTASS-WATER, for Rheumatism
SELTZRB-WATER, for Asthma, Indigestion, &e
FRIEDRICHSHALLER BITTER - WATER anc
CARLSBAD,
most effective in removing habitual constipation
affections of the liver, diabetis, &c., &c.
ORDERED BY LEADING DOCTORS.
Obtainable at principal chemists throughout the
colonies.
Note the Address:
DALM & OERTEL,
37 BOUItKE STREET, RE DEE If N.
W- M. -A.ra.elX & Co.'s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & AttTELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a vat iery of 74 kiuds—Canterbury, Nor.
inanity, and Family Cakes, Blum Puddings.
Mincemeat. Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour.
Tm cle and Golden Syrup, in all'size tins
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b,
and 3COlb. bags.
DU,LON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assoited Con-
fectionery.
A. M. lIUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J 4, Yz, and lib. tins*
It. WHITTING HAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates. Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANG LO-SCAN DINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING SIIIEET, SYDNEY.
W'
ILCOX
AND
GIBBS
Aufc inatie
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle anl
y ringer, £4lO
Mangles
washing
MACH I ,'EB,
CHURiVS,
Corn shelters
TOJ3AV CO
CUTTERS,
vVadnu x
Wood,
&0. &o. &c.
II EBBLE WHITE & CO.,
416 GEORGE STREET.
REGINALD TOMS,
I’EAC'iIER OF THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
ar THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as followsSEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FI VE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. OUices, 4 Pijrk-st.
I. V. WAHEHAM, Manager.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
H tnvi
BRAI.fA
TR
EATMrNT'--'
DR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death ; premature old ago, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid or
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case. With each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 265., the purchaser will receive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists
Australia.


(REGISTERED.)
/
'*r
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
PM
J
LATEST FASHIONS.]
*
■WATCHES,
IgSig** Special Novelties, &c.
FROM 30s. E-A-C^-
Country Orders punctually attende
v - .ii..--
BOITD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
I® an<i the business carried on with the original staff of Artists speeially engaged by
Mr. B, All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.—BOYD (OYER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
-A- o-:es.^.xte>
J. J.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER*
A
Is OPENING nr> pverv dav a Large Stock of Choice and a ’ Q( j js
BDITS E: B-4PAOJT artl cie
WHITE and REGATTA SHIRTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIL- -•
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES. qfocK i° 1)0
Come early and inspect the
SYDN p E SCBI p#
t
. Both shops are thorougly chock full.
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in
seep the LARGEST STOCK, or wuiuvjjsw brY
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING O
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street,
/
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near
V i
ASK TOUR GRO OER FOR
FRY’S MALTED
X Su FRY iz SO3KTS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“ An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.—Lancet.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.;
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
wif h a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK BTREET. SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORGE STREET WEfIT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
m.
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
/ AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
resigns and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
block, Station, and General Com -
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can he recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
q TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
<Wfi George-street. Sydney.
dentistry unrivalled.
Medals Gamed against the World
V
HIP
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MB. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney.
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
yEther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
EIGGIFS
Prize M edal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OP PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Statianery.
Engligb Papers and Magazines received by
every Mail.
ROYAL ARCADE. 498 GEORGE BT.. BYDNEY.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
oto'
OHtt
iipßw’.
1
HL/iND
StUn/aJ
Tt is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should he carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will And a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
V/RGOE, SON7JND CHAPMAN
• AGENTS.
EURE
LKA A
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
0T THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age 1
DESTINED TO E.CLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The on y Tobacco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
{3T Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
’iTikg[!o.,li&
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENvJE STREETS,
And can be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO,
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
BLAKE’S
STEAM
H. P. BtE***’V
.7 PIT* »**'
STDN^X
ARE SOLE AGENTS
and have in StocK a
FIRE PUMPS J
BOILER-FEED PU^P 8 j, i
TANK OR LIGHT SB# J
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & 0111
CANNERY PUMPS
iUGAR-HOUSE PH^ 1 *
VACUUM PUMPS pL r>
3EEP-WELL-SINK llf
—' „ 1
SEND FOR PRICES
C AT ALOGU
TT W [A CO^
Late with
uthor of “Modern |, i[ . l oio£ iicr s
Queen’s Hospital, R ll
|§£T Patients treated
OILS.
Office; 330
STORES:
vr i*.b.
O'*
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of /Erated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at ft
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. tfTj
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Era ted and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueu^’
