

(TBIT lIKDBI & SMS,
3!?r ©Trid-ers. TT’rs.lTrersa,! Providers^
PALA.CE
ONLY,
GBANBEST SHOW '
SPRING GOODS
In the Australian Colonies.
PONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Mce emporium, haymarket, only.
j; ft . ■- --
Novelties! Spring Novelties! The Opening of the Spring Trade.
Steamer. The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season.
\h\ a ch&rniing variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything fresh in Laces, Ribbons?
V° \xi n ’ es » Collars, Flowers* Costumes, and Dress Materials, suitable for wear during the Spring months.
stock of Furniture of all kinds, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, Window Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
b re( fuisite and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and substantially,
and we are this season in a position to give BETTER YALUE THAN EVER I
|fl/w Our Only -A.ddress—
V r HONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only, \
providers. universal providers.
The Bulletin New Series


Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EV EN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
Hr*
1
ifsiMrJja;
9
tor M?
m,
m cq
&XL 3SUTUECOIUXS SIT.
wcsr
l.
nm
SHL L. SUMMERFIELD & GO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON, E.C.
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET,
STREET, DUBBO.
; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
WAG (LA; MACQUARIE
25F Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
J. Gr. Harborow,
4:70 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
EXTRAORDINARY SALE
. OF
WIN TER HOSIERY AND MILLINERY.
Mew Stock of Ladies’ Gloves, Laces, and Fichus.
The Choicest Stock of Fancy Goods in Sydney.
Parasols, Umbrellas, Bags.
Purses and Fancy Mare.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 105 Pitt-street.
ALL GOODS STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
RATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
priced, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by ourlargely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GLOVES, AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
tf-W Our introduction..of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great sueseas We have
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
W. W_ CATEE,
193 and 195 PITT STEEET.
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
miHS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
Sl. Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits.
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Mandersand Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up.
M. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner o£ Bond-sweet.)
i
From the Strand, London.
Champagne
Heldsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
' ( £
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co.-, London.
Sole Agents lor Heldsieck A Co., Reims,
c. b. m
Gun Maker
■ .Tu W 9 SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1379*80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERYI
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &e. All goods will b© faithful!v
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery justre-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
Agent for Australia of the celebrated
Sara issv, c s;&. 0 ‘* o, "‘ ; ***«*
BRISCOE; 2 DR YSO ALE & Cl»
is, urn, ui mm n 0
397 GEORGE STREET,
6® and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
and AT kjj
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, EN<J"
———
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND'
IMPORTERS OP Ajjl
Engineers* Tools, Founders’ Materials* Ship
Builders* Materials, General Ironmongery, and Ag^ c
Implements.
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed,
MACHINERY. and
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, sl ® tta 8
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
'WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines.
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-p
English and American Agricultural Implement*' j
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes I ' ’^ e r h '
hakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Cor si and Maize Crushers and Sheuer ,
ffj
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Buildeks’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furn.
Musury’s celebrated Coach Colours. , va nizel. v
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; oal
and Plaih Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies. . „ nd p** B *
Wool packs, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Looks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carp
Particulars and Price Lists may he had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND
397 6@orgg® Street, Sydney-
CO-
WHISHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED),
GERSERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.!
BRANCH OFFICES,
SOOTHIKW District, N.S.W.s
Houlbura
Yasa
downing
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Roek
Culeairn
Cowabee
Narande^
Hulong
Wi&tbbs District, N.S.W.
Caperfcee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northern District, N.8.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Sootshbun and Sobxh-Wbstekn Linb;
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooy*
Cknt-ral. List*:
Rockhampton
Bogantungaa
Emerald
Capeiia
Comet
Towmsvllle
Charters Towsrs
Nqrthbbn Lists :
Raven»woo6 Junotlon
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH & 00., LIMITED;
0
W* Agencies In ail parts of the world.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
The JBEBT ALB and
SOLD BY ALL ffiS^
Virgoe, Son,^^
UK
gT OV*
■ gbnt B -
-
$
tw THE NEW
INVESTMENT o''—
Allow Interest as
on fixed deposits for lfs” r
arid UPWARDS tor shgi* O,JP j
CENT, on sums from. & W.,s. . tl/P /
Branch, Payable on
I. V
55
RAOt
¥3 OAR’S HEAD S^'
$% of Stout t h«
rest of the brewing? Co „
Arthur fliiinness * n^ o *».
Arthur Guinness
cannot be excelled-.
UATTELL * CO..
,ot*
A


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 72 —New Series.
SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 27. 1884.
Price—fld.
A Question and un Answer.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1884.
the students of political economy there
is on© fact which they cannot reconcile with
ibe theories taught in the schools. It is
that, although a century has gohe by since
the appearance of Adam Smith’s great
worts-, and although teacher after teacher
has arisen to prove the soundness of Free-
'trad*\ the nations, with one exception,
Repudiate it. In connection with this sin-
gular fact, the following letter, recently to
hand from a Victorian Protectionist, will be
read with Interest:—
•’To the Editor of The Bulletin.
"Sta,— Having been a constant reader of the
•ohly 1 common svnBo paper ’ in Australia, for
home time viz., The Bulletin, I would like your
•opinion ot Protection v. Pre -trade, and alßo as to
the probability and desirability of the introduction
of the former Into New South Wales, as woll as
into the ot her Australian colonies.
‘■One thing In particular strikes me very forcibly:
It is the false impression which the words Fret-
trade and Protection convey. Tho idea con-
stantly associated in my mind with the word Free-
trade is Protcvtivn o u the abolition of duties ; by
Which those who have plenty of capital, plenty 9!
labour, both cheap, plenty of skill, a great start io :
Point of time, and shipping, often idle for want of |
employment, and only possess land and raw I
taatortal in limited quantities, can compel those
distance, who have none of these essential ad-
vantages but the two last, to continue mere pro-
ducers of the raw materials; a state which
checks population, and renders us dependent on dis-
tant markets, both for every article of com tort
and convenience —indeed, most of the neces-
saries of Jife —and for the disposal of our produce;
a state which must throw the balance of prosperity
Very much in favour of distant and densely popu-
lated countries. Protection is, in fact, to my
blind, Free-trade among ourselves. Such Protec-
tion will not, as is commonly supposed, render
articles of necessary uso, convenience, or luxury
dearer to the consumer; at any rat©, not in the
long run —because we have unlimited moans ot pro-
duction, and numbers of people eager _ at a
moment’s notice to enter on every imaginable
enterprise, on encouragement being given them
by the Btate, and so, in time, to bring produce to
the lowest possible paying price. This would be
the means of a considerable population, now livmg
at the expense of the N.S.W. community, be-
coming both profitable consumers and producers,
as is the case now in Victoria and America.
“ Yours, &c.,
“ Sept. 15th,'1884.”
The foregoing was received by us a few days
ago. It asks for an opinion on a question
which, since the publication of the “ Wealth
of Nations,” has been dealt with more ex-
haustively, contested more fiercely, than
any other with which we are acquainted.
By writers with the grasp of Buckle the
proof of the economio soundness of Free-
trade and the fallacy of Protection has been
received with tho same confidence as Eu-
clid’s d emonstration of pons eislnorum. \ et,
in the face of ai guments advanced by some
of the acutest intellects of the century, the
fact still stares us in the face that there is at
present no absolutely Free-trade country in
the world. England is the nearest approach
to one, but even she imposes duties on vari-
ous goods. “For revenue purposes,” say
the Free-traders. Be it so. We shall not
quarrel about words —but she has import
duties all the same. It would be well, theD,
if Free-traders would occasionally come
down from the lofty platform of “ obvious
truth,” on which they have established
themselves, recognise the fact that with one
exception all the great States of the world
cling to Protective duties; that some have,
at various times, made a start towards Free-
trade, but turned back long before they
reached their destination; and that the men
who guide the destinies of hundreds of mil-
lions, quite equal to the average Englishman
in ascertaining what is good for them, are
not altogether incapable of grappling with
the more abstruse questions of economy.
* * *
A and B are two countries, the former
small, densely-populated, possessing exten-
sive mineral deposits of coal and iron, and
immense sums of money invested in ma-
chinery for the working up of raw matt rial
lnto marketable merchandise. It also com-
mands abundance of cheap labour. Free-
trade is the obvious and common-sense
policy of a country so situated. “ Send me
your raw products,” it says to its neigh-
bours. “ I will make better articles at a
cheaper rate than you can possibly do if you
manufacture for yourselves. Send me your
hides, tallow, wool, and ores, and with the
superior and cheaper methods at my com-
mand, I will return to you leather, cloth,
candles, and metals at a less price, and of
superior manufacture, than you—owing to
the backwardness of your machinery and
your high price of labour—can make them
yourselves. Confine yourselves to the call-
ings for which your country, owing to its
position or extent, is adapted; but beware
how you attempt to coddle industries to
THE HON. PETER LALOR, SPEAKER OF THE VICTORIAN ASSEMBLY.
which your laud does not lend itself
naturally, or in which you can never hope
to compete successfully against us. Your
people raise wool and ore in abundance.
Good. By sending these to me, t shall re-
turn you cloth and machinery, which your
farmer, wool-grower, and miner can pur-
chase much cheaper than they could if you,
lacking our advantages, made them into
cloth End machinery at home. I would
benefit, so would you ; while between us we
would support a third .class—the sailors or
carriers who trade between us.” Stated in
this way, without troubling ourselves with
the dust of the schools, Free-trade appears
mere practical common sense.
* * *
But, let us examine the matter from B's
standpoint. B has an unlimited territory
with mineral deposits far exceeding in
extent and variety those of A. But, in two
things it is far behind—capital, and cheap
and skilled labour. It adheres to the Free-
trade policy; sends all its raw products to A
and receives manufactured articles in re-
turn. So things go on, till, population
increasing in geometrical progression, it is
found that the production of raw material
is not the only thing for which the country
is adapted, and that such production cannot
absorb all the labour. What is to be done
with the people? “Employ them in the
profitable and natural industries of the
country,” says A ; “ put them on the land,
on the station, and in the mine, but take
care how you meddle with natural laws, by
employing them in pursuits in which they
cannot compete with me. And, if they can-
not compete with me in certain things, no
further proof is wanting that those things
are better adapted for our people than for
yours. By endeavouring to prop up by arti-
ficial means callings which do not take
kindly to your soil, you throw the whole
economic machine out of gear.” The be-
wildered B looks round ; sees scattered pro-
digally through the land, above and below
ground, unlimited resources; sees the peo-
ple being forced into a few great industries,
and hears ringing in his ears, “without
diversity of employment you cannot have a
great nation.” At last he says, “ 1 will have
such diversity, even if I have to pay for it.”
“Take care,” whispers A; “your farmers
and miners will not give £1 for a bad coat
when they can get a good one for 155.”
“True,” answers B; “but their sons and
daughters who are not adapted for the farm
or the mine will have careers opened to
them which will remain closed so long as
freedom of barter exists. For this they are
willing to pay, in the hope that, as my
resources are greater than your’, the time
will come when—in my own market, at any
rate—l can meet and beat you. Under that
very Protection which you now llout, your
own industries grew strong and hardy.
When they were able to go alone, you took
off their swaddling-clothes, and then pro-
claimed to the world that it was wrong even
to put them in petticoats. I cannetbe far
wrong in following such an illustrious ex-
ample, until the time comes when I also
shall proclaim to the world that the millen-
nium of calico has arrived. ]
• * *
Expressed in homely terms, this was the
main line of argument that induoed America
and Victoria to turn to what the economise s
consider the “exploded fallacies ” of Pro-
tection. They saw the population increas-
ing, the warehouses packed with foreign
goods, and the people—or, at least, those of
them unable or unwilling to swell the ranks
of those employed in a few staple indus-
tries —idle. In the pages of the great wr i tert,
from Smith to Mill, they read that the
erection of artificial barriers to exchange
would end in discomfiture. “Protect, by
means of high tariffs, any particular indus-
try,” said the economists, “and watch the
result. Some of your citizens will engage
in such protected industries, and make for-
tunes. Their example will be followed by
others who see in such callings a sure path-
way to profit. Competition sets in, the
margin of profits decreases, wages follow
suit, until at last your workmen touch that
pauperism they were so anxious to av.oid.
Put a swinging duty on textile fabrics. For
awhile all goes merrily. The capitalist in-
creases his capital, and the workman enjoj s
high wages. But, byand bye, money which
should be employed in the staple industries
of the country is diverted to the manufac-
ture of cloth. Down comes the price of
home-made stuffs, with the rate of wages
close on its heels. No law will prevent com-
petition, and no law keep wages above the
point at which it will pay the capitalist to
employ it.” The Americans and Victoria: s
were quite aware of this and all the other
arguments advanced by the economists. It
is a mistake to suppose they legislated in tLe
dark. They saw that, however favourably
situated a young country was; however
adapted by nature for certain industries, it
was next to impossible for those industries
to have even a beginning unless a helping
hand was given them. No Protection, no
manufactures, was their cry; and who will
say they were wrong ?
• ■ •
Take a familiar instanoe of how laws which
carry conviction in their very statement
would work if carried out. There is no eco-
nomical law more axiomatic than that every
man has a right to carry himself and his
industry to the best market. It is the very
a b c of Free-trade. Let us suppose, then,
that a few millions of Chinese—they would
scarcely be missed from that populous em-
pire-having heard that operatives in Eng-
land earned Us. a day, while their earnings
amounted to as many pence, landed in
Great Britain to-morrow. According to the
Free-trade theory, they would be quite
within their rights in ousting the operatives
of Lancashire. They and their families
could live on G‘d. a day. and in a short tune
become as expert as any Lancashire work*
man. Judged by the Manchester school
they would be welcome. They would lower
the cost of production, and thus enable
Manchester to undersell all others in the
markets of the world. But how about the
I workmen they had displaced ? It has been
| found necessary in America andiu Australia


Thb Kates of Subscription to the Bulletin
are—For one year, 345.; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Bates are ss. per inch i
special positions in the paper 7s. od. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods- as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 30 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 63 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
There is a “Pickwick Club” established
in Maitland, the object being anti-shouting, and
that members shall have “three hours' rational
amusement two nights a week at the small weekly
cost of 6d.” A lot of the bank clerks are in it.
They probably think subscribing to the club the
sum named is far better thau lavishing that
amount on diamonds for prime donne.
TIE POPULAR BRAID
mum
BRIAN BORU
TVTOTE. —YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
Brian Boru
Whisky
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
lAN BORO WEI
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds,
THE Best Cure for the above Is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
tr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Dejartment,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET.'
where you can obtain for
e<SL.
A GLASS OP WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment In the world.
0. W. ROBERTS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open In
MARKET STREET.
BED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
THB MOST WHOLESOME Of ALL BEVERAGES.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
Is. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE.
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle*
C. W. ROBERTS
■ 4 j Market Street, Sydney .
to legislate against this threatened influx of
Chinese. England thinks it barbarous, for
the simple reason that England is safe from
such an invasion. In the same way, Eng-
land thinks it suicidal for Americans or
Australians to reject the Free-trade doc-
trine. “It has made us the richest nation
in the world,” it says, complacently. Pos-
sibly, but “ the bitter cry of outcast Lon-
don ”is still loud in our ears. Your money-
bags are overflowing, and your pauperism is
the by-word of nations.
* * *
Was there ever a great State that did not
offer a diversity of employment to its people ?
We know of none. The Free-traders rea-
soned as if the earth was a kitchen-garden—
one plot adapted for onions, another for
oranges, and a third for bananas. “Do not
endeavour to grow onions here or bananas
there,” they said; “stick to the products
the plot will best grow.” And so far they
were right. Where they were wrong was in
supposing that the end of life was in buying
in the cheapest market and selling in the
dearest—in flooding the world with goods
produced at a cost so nicely balanced
as to allow the workman just enough
to keep body and soul together. But
the earth is not a kitchen-garden, and
the people inhabiting it have various
ideas as to what constitutes national
greatness. According to economic axioms,
the people of New South Wales are in the
track and those of Victoria in the
wrong. Suppose war broke out to-morrow
—in the present state of European affairs it
is always on the cards—in which England
was involved. In any great imbroglio,
Great Britain with her interests touching
every sea, could not long afford to stand
aloof. Hostile cruisers are in all waters, a
few Australian trade-ships are captured, and
in a short time the manufactured goods that
New South Wales was in the habit of im-
porting from England or America would
have to be obtained from Victoria. This is
no fancy picture. Anyone who has remarked
the exhibits in recent exhibitions can readily
say on which side the manufacturing supe-
riority lies. In the great American rebellion,
the oollapse of the South was in no small
degree due to this very aosence of manufac-
turing resources. This is a phase of the
question whioh has not occurred to our
Free-trade friends. But long before the
dawn of the Twentieth Century the chances
are altogether in favour of England’s having
to engage in a great war, possibly to hold her
own, possibly for existence. Assuming that
she triumphed, it is certain that, in the very
teeth of the economists, she would have to
impose duties to clear her debts. We give
this for what it is worth. It is merely given
to show that, however positive may be the
dicta of men who, from their closets, look
out upon the world and lay down rules for
its guidance, the exigencies of national life
override all such rules. The closet philo-
sopher sees in the influx of Chinese nothing
to cause alarm—nothing but the natural de-
sire of man to bring his wares to the best
market. The statesman sees in it the going
down of a superior civilisation before an in-
ferior—the suryival, not of the fittest, but of
a low-type, half-fed mammal over a pro-
gressive, well-fed one—and acts accordingly
• • •
And now, for Free-trade and Protection.
Our opinion—given, be it said, with a due
knowledge and regard for the gieat authori-
ties arrayed against us—is that in the life of
a nation, as in that of an individual, there
are periods when a change of diet is neces-
sary. The aliment that supports the man
would be fatal to the child. Even Mill ad-
mits as much—grudgingly, it is true, but yet
he admits it. He hedges round his admission
with many safeguards. But the faot stands
out that, under certain circumstances, Pro-
tection may be the true policy. Most of his
English admirers, of the Cobden and Bright
school, part company with him there. They
say that the law of free exchange is as bind-
ing as that of gravitation. There we part
company with them. There may be great
manufacturing countries which did not pass
through an apprenticeship of Protection,
but—we cannot call them to mind. Some
ardent Free-trader may, perhaps, remember
them ; but, until he tells us of them, shows
how the law of untrammelled barter is im-
perative at all times and under all circum-
stances, and points out how the United
States aud Victoria have lost by having
flouted it, the opinion that N. S. Wales and
Australia might benefit by a protective
policy will remain unskaken.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australian Cricketers.
No one can be unconscious of the fact that there
have been growing troubles in respect to the
status of Australian cricketers claiming to be
amateurs while supporting themselves on the
money paid for admission to witness their per-
formances in England. Their claim to be regarded
and treated as gentlemen amateurs has been dis-
tinctly challenged, and in many quarters per-
emptorily disallowed by English censors. Thus
a large section of the English press withholds from
them the distinguishing title of “Mr.” as a prefix
when recording their exploits, and their stipula-
t ions with regard t® “ gate-money ” have been
adduced as disqualifying them from the status
of bund fide amateurs. It is probably vain to
argue that if the Colonials be disqualified for
this reason, Lord Harris and his associates
equally disqualified themselves while travelling in
Australia by the same practice. The plea is
cogent, but those who practically hold the power
of deciding—the Society people of England-are
indisposed to listen to it. The solid fact is that
there is a conflict of social systems. In England
the definition of what, strictly speaking, consti-
tutes a gentleman differs essentially from the defi-
nition accepted in the colonies. In the older
community, the aristocratic sentiment governs all
matters of social usage, and to be dependent on
one's personal exertions for a livelihood is, in the
severer circles, regarded as a disqualification to be
ranked as a gentleman. Trade, even on a grand
scale, is a disqualification. Even the vastest re-
sults in the form of wealth only gilds the fact, but
does not make the social status sterling. There
are a few professions which a man may engage in
and not lose caste. These are chiefly privileged
occupations, protected in a degree frorp common
intrusion. The service of the Sovereign, the pro-
fession of law in the higher branch, the service of
the State Church, and in a qualified degree the
profession of physic, and banking, are within the
limits of caste. But cricketing for a living has
never been included, and the pretensions of young
men from the colonies to be exempt from social
disqualifications which natives of England have
always assented to, are received with a certain im-
patience. The ideas of the two communities are,
in fact, radically opposed. And, we think, the
colonies have all the best of it. Here, honest in-
dustry in any avocation carries with it no social
degradation. We approach nearer ideal justice;
and the contemptible creature is the loafer—the
man who does not work and take his part in the
active enterprises of the community. With us, a
man who makes a living by doing anything well is
more regarded than the man who merely amuses
himself by doing the same thing either well or in-
differently. In England, the man who amuses
himself is more highly regarded than the men who
works in earnest. You may amuse yourself with
a lathe and remain a gentleman. But earn your
living as a wood-turner, and you lose caste. We
prefer the colonial ideal.
*
Diddled.
Sir Henry Park.es "speech, at the breakfast given
him by the Temperance and Local Option people*
was a very able one—a very able one, indeed. The
intention of the promotors of the breakfast had
plainly been to take advantage of the veteran
politician’s present forlorn condition in order to
strike a bargain with him. A Mr. Hutchinson
stated the nature of the proposed contract with
an entire absence of finesse. Sir Henry being in
a condition of political destitution—that is to say,
destitute.of a party or following—Mr. Hutchinson
explained that he had pitied the sorrows of a poor
old man, and that the Temperance organisations
would supply Sir Henry with a following—for a
consideration. The consideration suggested was
a surrender of independence by Sir Henry. He
was to take a pledge—not a temperance pledge—
but a pledge to be the servant of the Temperance
people, with a brevet commission as nominal
master. The wary old fellow saw the snare quite
easily, and as easily slipped the noose over the
necks of his would-be captors as he slipped his
own out of it. His adroitness was something ex-
quisite. He played with his hearers and tickled
them, and treated them to the adroitest sort of
raillery, without for a moment losing his grip.
They have constantly denounced moderate
drinkers as the worst antagonists and obstruc-
tionists whom Temperance reformers have to
wrestle with. Sir Henry alluded to his deter-
mination to continue a moderate drinker,
with a dexterous complaisance which seemed
to impress his hearers with the conviction
that a moderate drinker is the exact de-
scription of person who should be selected
by total abstainers as chief, guide, and model.
Sir Henry led his teetotal audiences, by their un-
blossoming noses, through the prohibition State of
lowa, and made all their mouths water—or rather
wine—with sympathetic thirst, as he artfully de-
scribed his unsatisfied longings for a “small bottle.”
In short, he fooled the sssembled zealots—worthy
men, but not over wise—to the top of their bent,
and, by the time he had done with them, ho left
them in a fevered state of exultation, and per-
fectly charmed and satisfied with him and with
themselves, under the rather singular conditions
that, while he had accepted the proffer of their
allegiance and support, he had most artistically
disclaimed any pledge or obligation whatever
which would prevent his accepting the leader-
ship of the Liquor interest next day without
breaking a single promise. The side-splitting re-
sult of the' demonstration islthat, while the Tem-
perance organisations have pledged themselves to
back up an unrepentant and almost satirical
moderate drinker in whatever he undertakes, ho
remains entirely unhampered by any equivalent
undertaking. Sir Henry simply laughed at his
hosts to their faces, in a quietly effective way,
which must have won him many friends among
the liquor people; and he accepted their vows,
while making none himself—unless a vow of fidelity
to the “small bottle ” can be regarded as sufficient
consideration for the support of the Total Ab-
stainers.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“J. Sherwood”: From your handwriting
and mode of expression, you would be adapted for
office work, but, unfortunately, the market to
which you would bring’ your wares is already over-
crowded “J. Nagle”: Scarcely in our line. In
applying at once to the Minister for Mines, you’ve
adopted the proper plan... “T. R. Woodland”:
Your letter covers a lot of ground. Concerning
“Imperial Federa ion,” however, you may rest
easy. Conferences of meddlers may meet in Lon-
don and carry resolutions by the yard, but, bless
you I these things are only done to satisfy a morbid
vanity. Only let them try to put their resolutions
into practice! There are natural laws at work
which make for ultimate separation, despite the
commonplace utterances of commonplace men.
“Vulcan”: There is a good deal of sound com-
mon sense worked into your poem “ Laguna.” We
seldom get poetry like yours—possessing a clearly
defined motif. For instance, the verse—
“ Although there is plenty of money granted
On the roads, we don’t get our share,
But they don’t forget to make us pay taxes,
The way we are treated is not fair,”—
is a really telling indictment against a notoriously
corrupt Administration. The expression “On the
roads’’ may suggest unpleasant remembrances to
some; and, indeed, we would have omitted it, but
for the manifest unfairness of garbling a suggestive
line. The verse—
“ Where the money goes to is a.question
It is not easy for to solve;
Everyone has their own suggestion,
But it is evident it don’t revolve,”—
expresses tersely a problem that has kept us awake
many a night. “It don’t revolve”—there’s no mis-
take about that. At least, if it does we are not in
the line of its orbit, and you appear to be in the
same fix.
“ Fer soon there maybe a change in Government,
Let our Member now take care,
For many that stood to him in the last Election,
The next time might be found wanting there.
“ For the residents of the Wollombi district
Are fully determined to have their rights,
No doubt they have been badly treated,
And we give them praise for their own who
fights.
“ The read up Wattagan Creek is fearful,
There is pienty of work should be done;
You can scarcely ride a saddle horse
From Laguna to Currenbong.”
This is serious. We’ve heard before that the Wol-
lombi people were not to be trifled with, and that
the Wattangan Creek men could strike home, but
we certainly didn’t know the road was so bad
between Laguna and Currenbong. But camels
can often travel over ground horses get bogged
in, as their feet are comprehensive enough to
cover a few dozen ruts at one go. Yes, Vulcan,
camels is your dart, and failing them, of course,
stilts. We may give you another turn next week,
Vulcan. By-bye for the present “ G.G. M‘A.”:
She was born in Jersey, one of the Channel
Islands—“ Quid”: Certainly not “Inquirer”:
Since the demise of Sydney Punch, it would
be hard to say which is the wittiest paper in Aus-
tralia. The Protestant Standard and the Ex-
press contain a good deal cf original humour. So
does the Entr’ Acte, although it cannot fairly be
set down as a newspaper. For “wholesome” and
continuous mirth, the choice would, perhaps, lie
between the S.M. Herald and the Bendigo In-
dependent... “John Bull”: “What does the
Prince of Wales do for his salary ?” What a
question! Why, he—well, he—er, he Oh, go
and ask the D.T. It is British to the back-bone,
and should know “Bogan”: It is doubt-
ful whether the ornithorhynchus will supplant
the common hen as an egg-producing bird.
It is really quite uncertain how it would
act under domestieation, or on what terms it
would stand with the house dog and the butcher’s
man. There are, of course, obvious objections to
the conduct of the domestic fowl when under ex-
citement or after laying, but it is, perhaps, as well
to put up with them lor the present “Ada”:
Sir Henry Parkes might be considered good-look-
ing— in Timbuctoo. We cannot say....“Dubbo”:
You cannot read your Bulletin through,
or you would hage learnt our opinion of
sweep conductors. Once more, we think them
ingenious people, who pay when it pays
them, and “slope” when it doesn’t... “X.Y.Z.”:
Variations for the flute are of various kinds,
but we don’t t ink that hitting a man over
the head with your instrument can fairly be in-
cluded in this description of composition
“Playgoer”: Where have you been for the last
fifty years? Don’t expose your ignorance like
that. Way back in the stone age, it might have
been thought the thing to keep quiet at the plays
of the time while the star was braining a “supe.”
But we have improved. The proper thing now is
to carry on a conversation with some one, three or
four seats away, while the leading lady is spouting
trash from Shakespeare or Goldsmith.
Says the Sydney correspondent of the
Tenterfield Star:— “The band, by some extra-
ordinary faux-pets, played two bars of the ‘ Dead
Maroh in Saul ’ (on Parkes rising at the banquet),
which can only be explained by the supposition
that the band was melancholy and elevated."
Perhaps they were thinking of the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth, on that
occasion ?
NO GOOD.
“I won’t re-enter public life,”
The great Sir Henry whined;
“ No more I’ll brave the wordy strife,”
He’s k' ot his pockets lined.
He knew, as he sat with a frown,
The other “ push ” had scooped the town.
A native of India was recently brought up
at Degra Dun, charged with killing and eating a
boy. He had the balance of the boy, after a square
meal, rolled up” in his waistband. When interro.
gated by the magistrate, he said that it was an
unfortunate affair, but what could he do ? He had
rendered his account faithfully for the last two
years, but he only got pine-cones and hardwood in
exchange for a paper that he had established to
supply a long felt want.
“Three times around an elephant’s front
hoof is said to be his exact height.” You can
sometimes find the height of a country member of
Parliament by going half round his front hoof.
Here is another bit of natural history: “During
their early locomotive stage, the young fry of the
oyster have a pair of distinct black eves to guide
them in choosing their future home; but, as soon
as they settle down fora lazy life on some ledge or
bank, the eyes die away, and the animal passes the
rest of its existence in complete and contented
blindness.” We wonder whether Piddington, John
Lucas, &c., find anything in tins which reminds
them of the N.B.W. Legislative Council?
“Throw physic to the dogs.” Certainly
we agree with Macbeth, of murderous memory,
that such an operation was a rightand proper one,
for the dose prescribed for the uneasy conscience
and disordered stomach of the homicidal monarch
would probably consist of about half a gallon of
some particularly nauseous compound, But novy,
“throw physic to the dogs,” oh, dear.no! We ab-
solutely rejoice at the idea of medicine, for it
means an absolute feast of little sweetnesses—
pillules, they call them—which, placed upon the
tongue, impart a pleasant flavour, and cure all
our ailments as they gently dissolve and spread
their healing influences through our possibly de-
bilitated carcases. Such is the comfort of Homoeo-
pathy and another comfort is that you can procure
these elegant remedies at Anthony Hordern and
Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*


Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
Suality. may be purchased from Hookings and
o, 143 Pitt-street.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
Hair and tioral decorations. 60i Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
What more cooling and refreshing than an
afternoon tea on the balcony of one of our
suburban retreats, in the shade of an honeysuckle
arbour,', the table decorated with a pretty set of
ornamented china ware from the establishment o£
Bray Bros., 403 and 10! George-street ?*
VANITY FAIR.
At- the great Health Exhibition in London,
the PriDcess of Wales was presented with a bou-
quet, which, even to one who had seen the re-
sources of luxury almost exhausted, was a novelty
and surprise. It was not only that the flowers
were of priceless beauty, hut they were lit with
tiny electric lights, making the flowers and blos-
soms all seem to have jewelled centres In
Vienna, a club has been started to provide poor
but deserving girls with rich husbands. No one
can join except wealthy men and each binds him-
self to marry a girl who has neither money nor
claims to aoy. If some rich beauty seduces him
to break his pledge, he forfeits £5OO, which goes to
help make some other gill happy.... Competition
“ While travelling in a sumptuous hotel-car. in America,
I was refused a bottle of wine because the train merely
happened to pass through the State of lowa, where the
local option law is in force."
And you call that a free country !
nnhi A V he time 1 W&s th « re was not a
pub he-ho use mmy native county, that I knew
“In the town of Pullmann, Illinois,
there are 8000 inhabitants, including one
policeman, and not a public-house in the
place ”
(However, extended travel had enlarged
Sir Henry's experience, ami he was pre-
pared for such a dire emergency.)
“ If there were any publjp-hQuses in War-
wickshire, at the time of my last visit. I was
unable to find any.” *
7 " Really pqw, Mr. 4 Booth, I never made :.V-pledge in-my life; if I did.'
I never kept it, HesideSj I don't see any.money,tq. be pigde. out^oldhi^,/
Devotion,
THE SELF-DENYING TEMPERANCE POLITICIAN.
jn neauty is so keen now-a-days, that a girl must
na very audacious if she wants to keep ahead. At
a recent flower-sale in England, one girl com-
pletely crushed all the otheis by drawing every
juntleman la the place t) her stall. She had a
neure famed for its beauty, and a marble purity
ot skin. Thi3 she not oniv snowed to its most fas-
oating extent to the young men who faced her
at the stall (all the others could do that), but be-
mud, herdress was so scooped away as to resemble
a sculptor’s nude model. But, you say, there was
P° one behind to look at her? of course not,
Pooby. But at the back of her stall was a huge
‘Hoking-glaga. It was this looking-glass that made
ait the other poor girls feel they had beea out-
l? aD i CPUVre d • ■ • A curious fashionable novelty in
migiand was the acting of a drama in the open air
a mixed company of professionals and araa-
“®Urß - “ As You Like It ” was the play, and in tho
grounds of Coombe House, near Wimbledon, a
glade of lime trees was found to admirably suit
for the scenery. A dense foliage formed the back-
ground, rough piles of wood marked the sides, and
a row of dwarf ferns served as footlights. Four
hundred fashionables witnessed the play, which
was for a charity, and the part of Orlando wai
taken by Lady Archibald Campbell. The last
thing wo recollect Lady Archibald taking was, to
the wearing of trousers For the gratification of
good young girls, wo may mention that the dress
in which Princess Louise of Wales was confirmed,
was of simple white India muslin of the finest tex-
ture, with a pleated flounce, tucked at the edge,
falling half w-'y down the skirt. The bodice was
pointed, and the tunic draped over the hips in soft
folds. A gathering of muslin round the neck
looked simple, girlish, and prettv. ..Miss Beatrix
du Maurier, daughter of the Sooiety artist of
London Punch, was married the other day. She
is as handsome as the girls her father draws. A
lot of artists were present at her wedding, and the
six bridesmaids all wore white sprigged muslin
The luxury of Parisian attire is nearly incredible.
An elegant Parisienne has to pay from £5O to £lOO
for an average ball-dress by one of les grand
faiscurs, or at least £lO for the most modest morn-
ing dress. Underlinen has become so sumptuous
that chemises have lately been made for Parisian
belles at £llO a piece. There has to be equal ele-
gance in bed-room attire, which is made of finest
fabrics, and ofttimes worked and shaped and
embroidered as finely as a spider’s web. As
it is intended “to catch," perhaps this is
quite right. Then there must bo a separate
dress for every “ function "—one for the break-
fast, the ride, the drive, tbc tennis or archery
meeting, the opera, ball, five o'clock tea, the races,
the parade, the seaside, and so on. And yet, some-
times, the fair Parisian has hardly anything 0u....
One of the last names coupled with the Lily’s is
Mr. HarrylOelrichs’, who has been called “Mrs.
Langtry’s cowboy.” It is true he is a ranoher
now. But a few years ago, Oelrichs was a well-
known fast society man of New York. He took
to stock-raising, and, beiDg successful, has now a
handsome ranche with all luxuries, and always
numbers of visitors to enjoy his French cook’s
dinners and splendid wines.
The “Homo Physician,” by Dr. C. W.
Beard, is a Cyclopaedia of Domestic Medicine,
which Messrs. M’Neil and Coffee, of Sydney, are in-
troducing. It is a thick volume—thicker, relatively,
than an alderman's head, or a politician s skin. It
contains more leaves than a popular actress takes
of a public which keeps on attending positively
last farewells. A good many positively last fare-
wells to life would possibly be averted If the
“Home Physician’’ tvere in more homes. The
work strikes us as being quite as good a one
as Ardill’s City Mission. Wo have looked
through it—the “ Home Physician ” we mean, not
Ardill s little scheme—very carefully, and it
strikes us as being the most valuable book of the
kind for family use we have ever seen. The in-
formation, &c., is modern and recent, wherever
we have been competent to judge it. The illus-
trations are copious and useful; while the text is
written in homely English, which every mother
can understand at once. The book can be left any-
where within reach of children and no harm
ensue. Honestly, we like the book, and believe it
to be a valuable domestic guide.
Thus reproachfully, recently, murmurs
Ma.ry:— “ We have not received our cony of the
Bulletin for the past three weeks. Oh, Bulle-
tin, Bulletin ! why hast thou forsaken us ? ” Oh,
divinest of thy sex, Mary, Queen of C-trcoar! wbafc
sweet pain fills our raptured soul on finding our-
selves so despairingly remembered in thy orisons,
and yet so gently chided by thee in thine own in-
comparable tly-poison paoer. By the high hev-
tngs, Miry ! it is a fearful thing to be as handsome
as we ourselves are, and yet so utterly unsb'e to
afford relief to the countless thousands of high-
born dames who are daily dying for od« of our all
too lovely, three star Aurora smiles. Half of our
time is spent in receiving the dj ing pirdons of the
slain, and the balance in ascertaining which of the
chosen people will advance the most on the
corpse’s underclothing. At the same time, how-
ever, sweet n-inph, the language in which you
clothe your chiding is by no nheaus original. Read
Matthew, chap. 27, v. 46. and you'll find it written:
“Eli, Eli, Uinma sabacthani.” And, finally, the
cause of ail your trouble is not because the Cap-
tain Kidds and Ned Kellys of the Post-oflice love
their Mary less, but because they love their Bulle-
tin more. Shake ’em up with your shoes, Mary, and
we may be happy yet.


Personal
Items
Mr. Dan. Cooper has rented Lord Breadal-
hane’s great forest of Blackmount, Argyllshire,
for the shooting season, for £3600.
The new Duke of Albany came into the
world a month before his time; and not only is he
a wonderfully small infant, but he is very delicate,
and “ will require an enormous amount of care.”
Sir Samuel Wilson, on dit, is one of the
chief shareholders in, or financial backers of, St.
Stephen’s Review, a newly-floated London ven-
ture, which, were it printed in Sydney instead of
in London, had, wo should imagine, been estab-
lished in the interests of “the wealthy lower
orders.”
No artist has ever yet been degraded to
the peerage. A knighthood is at present all that
has been attained in Great Britain by painter,
sculptor, or architect. Lord Tennyson may pos-
sibly live to welcome his buster as “Lord Wool-
ner” in the Upper House ; but by that time one
may expect Lord Salisbury to have become plain
“Mr. Cecil."
Some faint idea of the majesty of the
positions occupied by our colonial “ ambassadors ”
may be formed from the following fact. A little
while ago, Mr. Mennell. the Age representative
in London, was me", in Fleet-street, and was asked
“where he was off to?” “I am going,” replied
Mennell, “ to have a shave, and then I am going to
see the Agents-General!”
A new “Australian” paper, the Anglo-
New Zealander and Australian Times, has
been started in l>ondon by that well-known jour-
nalist, Mr. G. M. Reed, late editor of the Auckland
Star and several other Maoriland prints, and Mr.
Horton, of Wilson and Horton, proprietors of the
N.Z. Herald, which firm, it is understood, share a
venture that, judging from the first number, bids
fair to be an emphatic success.
An English paper learns that Mr. Kyrle
Bellew, the well-known actor, has become a yacht-
owner. ‘“Curly, l ” it remarks, “is no amateur,
but has learned seamanship practically in his
youth.” “ Curly ” did a bit of practical seamanship
in the days when (his name being then Harold
Dominic Bellew) he worked his passage home from
Melbourne, where he had been, among; other
things, a reporter on the local D.T.
It is discreditable that the King of Bweden
should, during his London visit, have had to stay
at an hotel, especially considering the splendid
welcome extended to the Prince of Wales in
Bweden, some years ago. Buckingham Palace is
practically empty, yet the King was not invited.
The English Court has obtained an unenviable
notoriety all over Europe for its miserably meagre
hospitalities. It isn’t that the Queen doesn't get
enough money.
> Queen Victoria is credited with having
once actually made a pun. But this was before
her accession. She had just been reading to the
Duchess of Northumberland the passage where
Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi, brought for-
ward her children, exclaiming, with maternal
pride, “ These are my jewels!” The little Princess
here laid down the book, and, looking up into the
face of theduchess, said, “Jewels! Now, I think
they must have been Cornelians!”
What glory! By permission of Sir Salmon
Wilson, the annual August Bank Holiday demon-
stration of the London and Westminster Working
Men’s Constitutional Association was held at
Hughenden, the seat of the late Earl of Beacons-
fleld. Sir Stafford Northcoto was the principal
speaker. Sir Salmon won’t get his baronetcy
even by the time silver threads appear among the
gold of his flame-coloured whiskers. The Conser-
vative cock won’t fight in England just now.
Dion Boucicault has written a play on the
story of Roberi Emmet, which he means to pro-
duce at New York in the winter ; but he has not
yet found au artist to represent the hero. Mrs.
Langtry forestalled him by engaging Mr. Coghlan.
He expects the piece will not be licensed for
England by the Lord Chamberlain, which. “of
course,” as he adds, “will add to its popularity
elsewhere.” The forbidden is always delicious.
Mr. Irving has a tragedy (or a melodrama) on the
same subject from the pen of Mr. Frank Marshall
in his desk.
Count Zamoiski, the mild-mannered young
gentleman who was in Sydney during the Inter-
national Exhibition, was one of a deputation re-
cently appointed in the name of the Poles to
proceed to St. Petersburg and entreat the Czar,
the “Little Father,” for Heaven’s sake not to
abandon his proposed visit to his affectionate chil-
dren at Warsaw. As if the Polish nation would
not rejoice did the news come that the very last
member of that race of murderers, the House of
Romanoff, with all his concubines, had been blown
from Moscow to the Ural Mountains!
Mrs. Weldon, thenotorious English litigant,
who always conducts her own cases, has got £lOOO
damages from one Dr. Semple, who in the opinion
of the jury, improperly and without due enquiry
certified to her insanity. She is now proceeding
against Dr. Forbon-Winslow, the eminent authority
on montal diseases, for damages on similar grounds.
Which reminds us that it would be just as well if
some member of Assembly looked up the pri-
vate lunatic asylum question in New South Wales.
Some queer stories have boon supplied to us from
time to time, but as there is a queer libel law
queerly administered in this colony, we are pre-
cluded from touching these matters.
Here is a nasty piece of high treason about
“ Albert the Good,” who was so deucedly well paid
to be good. A London p ressman says“ Speeches
on the franchise question are getting almost as
common as statues to Prince Albert were some
years back. I wonder what became of all those
statues? There wasn’t a town in England that
wasn’t going to have one. At one time there were
about three thousand on order, and the Prince of
Wales was driven nearly mad by applications from
mayors and town councillors and old ladies to come
and unveil them. Perhaps they were altered, like
the figures in Jarley’s waxworks, and now do duty
in various parts of the world for soldiers, states-
men, and public benefactors.”
M. llenan has been banqueted by his fel-
low Bretons of Paris. The Bretons, said the great
Frenchman, were an artless race, believing in the
true and the good, and as happy as kings, with a
little idealism, not adapted for making fortunes,
but adapted to obtain something better, viz., hap-
piness. His own mother, at 87, after a long and
painful malady, uttered pleasantries an hour be-
fore dying. M. IRenan concluded; by giving a re-
cipe for happiness, viz., the disinterested pursuit
of science, art, human welfare, or the country’s
service. He should face death without sadness,
for he had fully eDjoyed life; and should die con-
gratulating the young, for life was before them,
and lile was an excellent thing.
Mr. George Lansell, the Sandhurst “ quartz
king ” has met with a very severe buggy accident
in England, one of the effects of which will, it is
almost certain, be to deprive him of the use of an
arm Mere wealth doesn’t constitute happiness,
but Mr Lansell, to whom an heir has been born in
bis old age, appears to bea good deal happier than,
to make an Irish bull, “ many of the few men ” in
his fortunate financial position, for he says he has
so much money that he doesn’t care about taking
the trouble to speculate with a view of making
more Apropos, buggies, it is noticed, threaten to
make" their way in England. You see in the parks
tnreo hundred ponderous carriages to one buggy,
but still the latter vehicle is becoming more
popular.
j.arunann, the Nihilist, who, according to
a report, since contradicted, recently suicided
through sheer want, had for some time been
living upon the charity of sympathisers. In No-
vember, 1879, while engaged with the Russian
heroine, Sophia Perovsky (who was hanged with
Roussakoff), in digging the dynamite mine under
the railway, destined to blow up Alexander 11.,
the funds ran short. Hartmann, therefore, pledged
his watch for eight roubles, which amount enabled
him to complete his work. This circumstance
saved the life of the Emperor, as, without his
watch, Hartmann miscalculated his time, and
sprang the mine upon the first train, which carried
only the Imperial servants and luggage: the Czar
following in another train.
A good many people were glad when they
read that Mr. David Blair was going to deliver a
lecture id the Collins-street Baptist Church, Mel-
bourne one night recently. They remembered
that he had a week before auctioned out his fine
assortment of books, and they rejoiced that the
old man before he died was about to exhibit his
great mind in its native majesty. But they were
disappointed. The grand intellect kept behind
things still. Although the books were gone it still
squatted behind “A bundle of old letters. what
these people now yearn for is that the grand old
man ot the South should auction out his bundles ot
old letters also, and then come forward with a
speech. That would be worth publishing in the
Victorian Review after the weekly papers had
refused it insertion.
Tom Hughes, the author of “Tom Brown’s
Schooldays,” has been circulating a tale about
some “ bookies ’’—“said to hail from Australia
winning the superfluous cash of a few youths at
the gambling table of an Atlantic steamer. The
venerable Tom has been full up against gambling
ever since (so rumour says) he had a bad week
once, himself, in his younger days. He s quite as
much an apostle of anti-betting as Bootn is of
anti-beering, and never lets a Derby pass without
bewailing its wickedness in some magazine or
newspaper. All the same for that, we re sorry the
bold bad men “said to hail from Australia
cleaned out those guileless youths at the gambling
table (we suppose he means the smoking-room)
of the Atlantic steamer, and should have felt down-
right grieved if things had been the other way
about. “Advance Australia!”
Sir Samuel Wilson has given a written
denial to the stories about his “ squaring ’’certain
“ knocked out ” swells in England to use their in-
A BONA-FIDE “SETTLER.”
“OBJECT TO SMOKIN’, MUM?”
“DECIDEDLY. IT SICKENS ME.”
“THEN YE’D BETTER GET OUT; I’M GOING TO LIGHT UP.”
fluence towards tacking Bart, on to his name
I Wicked people have whispered that Sir Sam s
cheque for £5OOO had found its way to the pocket
of Mr. Van Baerle, late private secretary to John
Bright and Lord Carlingford. and this, presum-
ably, is the chief of the “offensive allegations
which the virtuous Victorian is now so indignantly
repudiating. Poor Samivel! He is trying. hard
for hereditary nobility, no doubt, but he’s not
quite such an amateur at “ squaring ” as to think
that a few cool thousands to “late ” secretaries
can do much in the matter. It’s big dinners to
the reigning powers “as does it.” Only get the
right public men at your table, and just the right
things inside their stomachs, and you can die a
Duke.
The Imperial Parliament voted £2725 for
the funeral expenses of the Duke of Albany, who
was consequently buried as a pauper, though he
had £25,000 a year from the nation, and left £46,000.
Asks a London paper Why cannot the estate or
a deceased Prince, like that of meaner mortals, be
charged with the expenses of his funeral ? It that
rule hold, then the friends of the Duke of Albany
might have spent, had they cared to do so, not
£3OOO only, but £30,000, and the public would have
han no right to complain. It is not uncharitable,
however, to assume that the cost of burial would
have been much nearer £3OO than £3OOO, if the
family of the deceased had been required to meet
the charge.” The payments to the Royal family,
in hard cash, total £886,973 per annum. When a
Prince is made a Duke, the nation has to pay,
when he gets “ the garter ” it has to pay; when he
crosses the channel it has to pay. But le jour
viendra!
The Directors of Convict Prisons have de-
cided that, on the Claimant leaving prison, he
may provide himself with plain clothes, in lieu ot
thB service suit of Tweed, almost as distinguish-
able as the convict’s uniform. “Sir Roger has
declined the offer of two suits from a Portsmouth
outfitter, but says he will purchase his outfit. Due
would almost imagine that Fat Arthur woulan t
care about entering a “new suit. And it is
stated that arrangements are being made by the
East Kent branch of the Temperance Union for
the Claimant, on his release from prison, next
October, to travel about the country lecturing in
favour of total abstinence, and relating experi-
ences of how he, during his incarceration, lias
lived without alcohol 1 This is making a virtue
of necessity with a vengeance. The Claimant will
be about the biggest of all the rogues who have
made a liviDg out of the temperance movement.
Fat Arthur’s god used to be the gastronomic
patron of his once extensive anatomy. A course
of gaol-diet has almost deprived him of his deity,
but perhaps he intends cultivating, to quote
Shakespeare, “a fair round belljywith good capon
lined,” as soon as he gets out of uurance.
Edward Wakefield, M.H.R. for Selwyn,
,N.Z.. and editor of the Timaru ’Erald, is cer-
tainly a smart man and a good public speaker, but
he ought to have known better than enter the
lists as a debater against an old war-horse like Sir
Julius Vogel. “A. consistent politician must be
either a fool or an inspired prophet,” quoted Ed-
ward. “ Nobody can say the honorable member
is inconsistent,” replied Julius, "but I am sorry
to hear him set himself down as a fool.” "The
honorable gentleman opposite, possibly owing to
his deafness, did not catch my meaning,” shouted
Edward, holding his open palm to his mouth to
send his voice direct into the Julian auricular
organ. “Whatl said was this, that a consistent
politician must be either a fool or an inspired
prophet.” “ Exactly so,” replied Sir Julius, "but
/ scarcely thought the honorable gentleman
would expect the House to believe him to be an
inspired prophet.” Then the House yelled, and
Edward subsided.
When the relief expedition reached the
camp of Lieutenant Greely, the Arotic explorer,
Greely was just able to support himself on his
hands and knees. Ho was dressed in fur, with a
red knitted hood, which added to his haggard ap-
pearance. His long hair and beard, his wasted
form and deep-sunken eyes, which shone through
his glasses with increased brilliancy, and his feeble
voice—which he strove to control, but which re-
vealed his overpowering feelings—brought mois-
ture to the eyes of the strongest of the relief
party. On either side of him lay one of his com-
panions. both in a dying condition—Corporal; Elli-
son, with both feet lrozen off, unable to raise his
head; and Private Maurice Connell, in a sleeping
bag, dying of starvation. Lieutenant Greely had
been reading the prayers of the dying when the
party arrived. The survivors of the party had
lived for some time on minute shrimps, sea-weed,
sassafras, rock lichens, and sealskin. They claim to
have got nearer the Pole than any previous expe-
dition.
A younger son of the Duke of Argyll
became engaged to Lady , and, as in duty
bound, asked his father’s approval. The Duke
answered: —" Since my eldest son, the Marquis of
Lorne, married the daughter of the Queen, our
I Sovereign, he has become the head of our house.
You must obtain his consent.” The Marquis,
when applied to, said he would have to consult
the Queen. The Monarch, when asked, replied
that " ever heaven deprived her ot her noble,
ever-lamented husband, she had made it an inflex-
ible rule to take no step in the affairs of her house
without first referring the matter to her brother-
in-law, the Duke of Coburg.” The Duke informed
the Queen that he would have to consult the
Emperor, who declined to take any step without
seeintr Bismarck. Bismarck’s answer was given
without hesitation: “Why should the matter re-
quire any decision of mino ? What have we to do
with the Duke of Argyll or with his son ? If the
voung fellow wishes to marry, let him do so, and
toe hanged to him.” This story appears in a Ger-
man paper, and is said to have been told to an
Austrian diplomatic official by the great Chan-
cellor himself. Who says the English aren t now
governed by the Germans ? The Queen and Royal
family were all born in England, and therefore
English; but not one of them has a drop of Eng-
lish blood in his or her veins.
Captain Pollard, of H.M.S. Defence, who
has been ordered to be dismissed the service for
negligent navigation, which brought about the
Defence and Valiant collision, was once,previously
dismissed a ship for imperilling her safety. In the
Defence case he thus closed his statement to the
court martial: —“I repeat that I was ordered to
execute an evolution under circumstances new,
dangerous, unrecognised, and unpro-
vided for. No rules were laid down for my
guidance, for no rules that were ever framed have
contemplated the execution of such a manoeuvre
in close order. Misled by a miscalculation tor
which I was not responsiDle, I acted in a manner
which no doubt brought my ship into a <lifhcuit
position. Finding her In that position, I say that I
turned the impending catastrophe ot an end-on
collision—which probably would have caused the
sinking of one or both the ships—into a collison
which left one ship unhurt and caused but small
damage to the other. Such is my defence. I urge
no personal considerations. I have served the
Queen for thirty-eight years. I am now close on
my flag rank. You have the power to blot out the
wnole of my professional past, and to destroy the
whole of my professional future. But I do not
appeal to sympathy, nor am la suitor for your in-
dulgence. I have stated my case, and in the hands
of my profession I leave it.” The evolution which
brought about the mishap was the same as that
whioh led to the sinking of the German ship
Grosser Kurfurst.
Thus a London writer“ It is not often
given to Londoners to see a real live King, with a
short pipe in his mouth, stop to have his boots
blacked at a street corner. I saw the sight last.
Saturday at the corner of Bloomsbury-street, and
the King was Tawhiao, Tawhiao has • cottoned ’
to our English ways wonderfully. He is devoted
to hansom cabs, and he has lately developed a taßte
for skittles. The cockneys have grown quite used
to the sight of his tattooed Majesty, and if he and
Major Te Wheoro were to go to Hampstead Heath
next Monday with yellow paper round their hats,
and play at kiss-in-the-ring, there isn’t a small boy
that would think of giving vent to even the sotto
voce ‘Crikey!’” And then there is this story:—
"The Maori King has suddenly expressed a deep
desire to join the Salvation Army. He would have
been enrolled and made a captain at once but for
one little difficulty. He makes it a distinct con-
dition that he shall be allowed to play the big
drum. The General has heard him play in private,
and has been reluctantly compelled to decline the
honour. He is afraid the services would be the
drum, the big drum, and nothing but the drum.
His Majesty, with that native independence which
is his distinguishing characteristic, bangs the in-
strument when and how he likes, and spurns the
idea of time. Another little difficulty was the pipe.
Tawhiao couldn’t be made to see that smoking was
inconsistent with beating a big drum during a
service of song.
The constituents of J. W. Thomson,
member for Clutha, N Z., decided to give him a
free funeral on the occasion of the demise of his
political principles. When the train reached
Clinton from Balclutha, one evening lately, a
crowd of people 'dressed in black, a brass band,
and a hearse were in attendance at the station. A
black coffin, which must have cost at least ten
bob, was taken from the guard’s van and placed
in the hearse, and the procession started for the
cemetery, the band playing the “ Dead March.”
At the cemetery gate a fierce individual, with a
fire helmet on his head, a lighted torch in one
I hand and an enormous meat-chopper in the other,
stood on guard, and in a voice of thunder de-
manded to know “ Whose carcase be that there,
inside the hearse?” “Thish,” replied the chief
mourner, solemnly, “thish is the mortial remain-
lngs of the late Mister Thomson, member for the
dishtrict.” “In that case,” yelled the guardian of
the dead, “he can’t be berried ’ere. This ceme-
tery is for honest Christian people as dies in
grease, and not for a false poulitician like Mister
Thomson. Take him down to the ( swamp, and
stick him in alongside my ould coo as died o’
pleurisy.” The procession accordingly started for
the swamp, where preparations had been made for
giving a fitting reception to the remains. On ar-
rival there, the coffin was broken open, the body
taken out and dipped in a cask of sheep-dip, and
then thrust head foremost, with the legs sticking
up, in a half-empty tar-barrel on the top of a pile
of firewood. Then there was a bonfire, and the
proceedings finished up with the usual big drunk.
Hitherto it has been the custom to open
English assize courts by reading an ancient pro-
clamation against vice and immorality; but, by a
recently-issued regulation, this very unnecessary
formality has been dispensed with. The other day,
however, Mr. Justice Watkin Williamß and Mr.
Justice Lopes went to open the Nottingham as-
sizes and insisted on delivering the venerable
jeremiad aforesaid—they did nor, they observed,
like to see the administration of justice robbed of
any of those forms which had hitherto helped to
impress the masses with feelings of awe and re-
verence. Well, next day Mr. Justice Williams died
suddenly—of rupture of an aortic aneurism; and
as he did not happen to be at his own hotel at the
time of his death, a fussy mischievous coroner in-
sisted—despite the advice of bis “ brother Judge,”
who stuck to him in true antipodean form—on
calling witnesses as to not only how and when, but
also where, deceased had met his death. Prior to
the enquiry a lot of fulsome gush was trumpeted
forth about as pure a man aDd as perfect a Chris-
tian as ever lived, and a parallel was drawn be-
tween the death of Judge Williams and that of
Mr. Justice Talfourd—which was a cruel libel, for
the latter died while doing his duty on the Bench;
while, now that the scandal has become public
property, for it comes out that Mr. Justice Wil-
liams died at a tempi 3 of Venus presided over by
one Nellie Banks, “lately of Sydney, New South
Wales.” The London papers kept the matter
quiet, but a Nottingham journal has very incon-
veniently let the cat completely out of the bag by
printing a two and a-half column report. This
case recalls two similar incidents in Australia a
few years ago—in one of which a well-known
barrister died at Sandhurst; in the other, the
victim was a very fashionable young Melbourne
solicitor.
John Peter Dowling, late respected resi-
dent of Pentridge prison (Melb.), was a man by
whom fortune—fickle fortune—dealt singularly
unkindly. Nature so evidently intended him for
an alderman, that it's positively distressing to hear
of his premature decease while yet only a con-
vict. "You will share our grief and grasp our
logical deductions when we mention that John P.
Dowling succumbed, in solitary confinement, to a
surfeit of hominy and bread. The same glorious
appetite, which would have been John’s greatest
blessing if he had but lived to attain civic digni-
ties, was his bitterest curse under the unfortunate
circumstances of a prison life. Turtle soup may
be disposed of in wholesale quantities, but hominy
(the never varying Pentridge m£nu) requires to be
dealt with sparingly, and not in the liberal spirit ot
our late lamented friend. Medical evidence dis-
closes the fact that “ his gullet was filled up to the
throat,” and his death was due to “the disturbed
state of the stomach.” A Corporation committee
should be appointed to collect funds for the pur-
pose of erecting a suitable memorial to John, we
shall be happy to subscribe a little something.
We’ll subscribe an epitaph:—
Poor Dowling with the aogels sings,
Far, far beyond the skies:
Meanwhile, his mournful story brings
The tear-drop to our eyes.
He died of eating prison fare
With hunger all too keen—
Ah I what a splendid sort of Mayor
Poor Johnny might have been I
The stomach w hich could find delights
In hominy and bread
Should surely, if it has its rights,
On nicer food be fed.
So now that John has passed away
To realms described as blest,
Let’s trust they give him, every day,
A dish he can digest. M
The “Marcus Clarke Memorial Volume
consists of four parts, viz., a dedication ot tn
work by Marcus’s widow to Lord Rosebery;, uo*
Rosebery’s acceptance of the said dedication,
biography of Marcus, by Hamilton Mackinnon,
and a selection from Marcus's writings. The aeu
cation is right enough—acid reflection
be upon the meanness of Victoria’s bucksterius
plutocracy that it should have been ne°dtui n
dedicate the volume to a “foreign ” swell, a me
casual visitor to the colony; and right enougu
the letter accepting the dedication, being man 3 .
courteous, and sincere. As for the biography,
is tolerably interesting; but every line ra,9 ‘L 8 fl ,. lc i
impression what a much better job Marcus wou
have made of a sketch of Mackinnon’s lite. i? ,
are here and there in it bits of snobbishness wn
we particularly resent. Mackinnon, forlnsiau ~
deprecates what he calls Clarke’s ‘disrespwjW’
albeit clever, reply to that noble Anglican Bism 1
(Dr. Moorhouse si article on ■ Civdisation witn
Delusion;”’ speaks of Clarke’s “reverental (
humility to Sir Redmond Barry;” and on otnt ”
casions jars one’s feelings with a display or si *
slobber. Again, the asterisked hiatus m tne
graphy are a mistake. These incissions we s? fl( ,r en
(we understand) at the bidding of those elm h
of Judah who have a hold on Marcus sinso «
estate, but to the general public, who may
be aware of the fact, they will suggest them®* h tbe
there were portions of Clarke’s lye on . a ra w
biographer has thought it best, discreetly, l « - g
a veil. Neither can we cry “ bravo to ™am d
selection from Clarke’s writings. He basaa “
several exceedingly weak and crude P ie ® t ~Y rw-
bly "The CaKi Panard,” “The Standard
land,” "The Vagabond’s Song,” etc. Then. „!_(or
the volume has been most carelessly an d
instance, why “Molierie,” and “Agustus,


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
JEM .sS”£s2sk
INDIA CHIPS IN.
“ Campbell Hospital, Sealdah, Calcutta, March 16,
1884:—Having heard of the healing and curative
powers of ST. JACOBS OIL in cases of sore
throats, pains, &c., and suffering while in this in-
stitution with a sore throat, I obtained the per-
mission of the medical officers, who attended me
for small-pox, to use it, and have much pleasure in
stating that a single application gave me much
relief, and in three days, using the oil twice daily,
I felt rid of the sore throat. I have no hesitation
in recommending the use of the same to others,
and feel sure they will find the oil give instan-
taneous relief. I would also here mention that
with the sore throat I had a severe pain in the
jaws, which was removed after only two applica-
tions of ST. JACOBSOIL.-(Siguod) E. A. Pekeiha,
Head Inspector of Post-offices.”
FURTHER POSITIVE PROOF.
Montague's Fancy Bazaar, 58 Princess-street,
Dunedin, ath May, 1884. Messrs Neill Bros., Dune-
din. Dear Sirs,—l have great pleasure in testify-
ing to the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil in a severe
case of neuralgia in the face. After trying manv
so-called remedies without obtaining relief
nothing did me so much good. After two or three
applications the pain entirely disappeared, and am
glad to state I have had no return of the trouble
since. I cheerfully recommend it to others suffer-
ing from the same painful ailment, l jemain
dear sirs, respectively yours, J ulia Montague. ’
HE SUFFERED ACUTELY.
D. Benjamin, Esq , the well-known wholesale
Jeweller and Importer, Dowling-street, Dunedin
writes cheerfully as follows Dowling-street
Dunlin, 2nd. May, 1884. Dear Sii- -Being a ffrm
non-believer in patent or proprietary medicines,
my testimony may be of some value to you Last
week I suffered acutely from severe contraction
of the nerves of the neck and shoulder. A friend
suggested St Jacobs Oil, and Unvested
in a bottle, rubbing it well in at night before re-
tiring. The feeling of warmth and counter-irrita-
tion I experienced almost immediately was verv
strong. And I am pleased to state that I awoke
next morning with hardly any trace of pain. A
second and less prolonged application cured me
completely. A bad chilblain on my ear was re-
moved with one rubbing. You may mention my
name as an authority on St. Jacobs Oil.) *
1 remain, dear Sir, faithfully yours.
D. Benjamin.
Eat and Lite.— Marshall’s Tonio Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system •
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Proprietors .--Marshall
Brothers, M.P.S., 104 and fO6 Market-street, and
5 litt-street, Circular-quay, Sydney.
“Reminiscenses,’, and “reverental,” and “pellite
cuvet*," and “ mere ,” and so on ? Apart, however,
lroni the blemishes which as honest critics we
have put our tinker on, the volume is a readable
one. It gives a tolerably fair portrait of Clarke,
though, perhaps, in dwelling too much on the un-
businesslike phase of his character it helps to
create the the impression that the man was a bit
of a Horace (which he wasn’t) ; and in
tne selection from his writings it provides the
means of taking a pretty accurate gauge of the
limits within which Clarke’s genius worked. We
hope the sale of the work (being as it is for the
benefit of Marcus’s widow and orphans) may be so
good as to necessitate the issue of a second edition,
with the errors which are in the first corrected.
Queen Christina, the hot-tempered consort
of the doubtfully-bred Spanish monarch, appears
to hold touchingly original ideas about the duties
of a second wife- So far from being .jealous of
Mercedes, her predecessor, the present Queen de-
lights to honour the memory of the first legalised
recipient of Alfonso’s warm attentions. On every
anniversary of the death of “ my sainted Mercedes ”
(as Alfonso called her during the brief period of
his sorrow), Queen Christina takes a drive to the
Escurial Palace and drops a wreath upon the tomb
of the “other,” and when Providence sent her a
princess, the dear little stranger received the name
of Mercedes from its broad-minded mother. The
reverence which Chriss. so constantly exhibits to-
wards her husband’s first wife is even extended to
bis first mother-in-law, for we learn that the
Duchess de Montpensier occupies the “ place of
honour in the Royal carriage and on all public
occasions.” Such wifely generos ty as this is truly
beautiful, and, under the circumstances, a little bit
artful. Christina’s pilgrimages to the Escurial, we
guess, are made with the Idea of tickling up hubby’s
conscience on the subject of marriage vows and
their sscredness. It’s pretty well understood that
Isabella’s son, litre a true chip of the dissipated old
block, plays the very Dickens with those said
vows: and, in addition to having forgotten ail
about number one “rib,” even goes so far as to
overlook the existence of “ number two ” on sun-
dry occasions. When he lets himself in with the
latch-key in the small hours, Christina murmurs
softly, “no wonder the other poor, dear thing
died 1” and displays her sympathy by buying one
more wreath.—
Hints to “ Seconds.”
The right thing to do in this commonplace life
(Or so men had hitherto reckoned)
Is all mention to drop of your first darling wife
Directly you tackle a second;
For the fair one herself,shrewd observers have said,
To number one’s name doesn’t “ cotton,”
But prefers to ignore the poor lady that’s dead,
And let her lie cold and forgotten.
But Christina, we think, a grand pattern has set,
Which in our esteem should exalt her,
By taking good care that her lord shan't forget
The wife he once led to the altar.
(By the bye, Ctrriss an eye to the future may turn,
And thinks that as Alf. has had one die,
She herself may give place to a third in her turn,
So does as she’d like to be done by.)
Dear girls who throw in with a widower’s lot,
Have thought for the wife that’s departed
(Who, like " Gunpowder-Treason,” should not be
“forgot”),
And be not unkind and cold-hearted;
For the same fickle Fortune that called her away
Has made you the happy successor—
Just reflect upon this at her tombstone, and say
“She gave me my hubby, God bless her I ”
Last week we gave a portrait of the Hon. John
Bryce. This, we give an outline of his public ser-
vices. The Hon. John Bryce, Native Minister of
the colony, taking one week with another all the
year round, is undoubtedly the best-abused man
in New Zealand. The people of the Southern half
of the twin colony—the citizens and settlers of
Dunedin, Christchurch, Invercargill, and sur-
rounding scenery growl at him continuously and
viciously for his large expenditure of public
money in keeping up an armed force for the sup-
pression of all possible disturbances in the Native
districts of the North island. The people of Auck-
land consider him altogether too lenient with the
Maoris. A war of conquest, and, if necessary, ex-
termination, would please them much better than
the present style of slow suppression and masterly
inactivity. The denizens of Napier, Gisborne, and
other settlements on the East Coast revile him
with great intensity of feeling for his action in
pardoning and shaking hands publicly with the
notorious Te Kooti the blood-stained mur-
derer of women and children in their districts.
The Natives themselves,notwithstanding his efforts
to protect them, regard him with mingled feelings
of aversion and fear. They submit to him, and
obey his commands, because he is John Bryce, and
they know he is not to be trifled with. The whole
locust host of Native Land agents, interpreters,
bush-lawyers, and Native Land Court hangers-on
and officials regard him with dread, as the instru-
ment destined to cut short their little games of
spoliation and robbery. Even large capitalists and
land-owners who support the G o vernment of which
he is a member, regard him distrustfully, as the
only one of the Ministry they are unable to bend
to their purposes when occasion, in the shape of a
big transaction in Native real estate, requires his
co-operation. In fact, to put the matter in plain
figures at the highest possible estimate, it just
comes to this: that John Bryce is a good deal too
honest and level-headed to meet the views of
some of the busy, clever, scheming, speculating,
money-grubbing, land-shan.ing colonists of New
Zealand. A man with more jaw and a back-bone
of a more pliant description would suit them much
better. Whatever may be the views of people
whose pockets are affected in a way displeasing: to
them, there can be only one opinion on the im-
portant fact that, since his acceptance of his pre-
sent office, Mr. Bryce has wrought a great and
much-needed reform In Native affairs. Formerly,
all was confusion, accompanied with much waste
of public money, and nothing to show for it but
ever-increasing distrust and disorganisation. Now,
all this is changed: Natives and settlers are alike
protected, the expenditure has been reduced, and
order evolved from chaos. The Maories have been
taught the wholesome lesson that they must obey
the law, and settlers in the vicinity of Native
settlements can now move about unmolested by
those who formerly interfered with their liberty,
they can now sow their fields with the certainty
that they will be allowed to reap their harvests in
peace. When they go to bed they are now no
longer under tho dread of a midnight surprise and
massacre. Bona fide settlers in the North Island—
who have nothing to gain, but everything to lose
by native troubles and rebellion—regard John
j Ce u a 8 the Btr °ng m an of the present Ministry,
and they would be heartily sorry to see his plaee
occupied by any less resolute and fearless suc-
cessor.
ket us see!—Shall we give you this in
Prose or rhyme ? In rhyme ? Good 1 —
iou remember what we wrote about patrician
Parson Ross,
'Vith his crosses and his flowers and his candles
in a row?
How he loved the High Church fashions; how he
, frowned upon the Low;
Ana his callous congregation, how they said it was
no loss—
”e'bg^generally gifted with the intellect of
tVhen be shook the dust from off his feet and forth
Wi i ro , n ? th u em did go,
Wlt “. his hunting-whips and horses, with his
pistols and his dogs ?
\v,!n P . a jt i J prose; too much rhyme is apt to clog.
onitJ * u neweB t thing about this cambric cleric is
trnstL, ckiara cteriBtic. After he had gone, the
thot „ 8 ’ or churchwardens, or elders, or whatever
ndrJ«? re ca %d, made a visit of inspection to the
stahnS 8 ® 6 * T hey discovered that the walls of the
siirno • we . re covered with crosses of various de-
ehaiv .l ux ta.p°6ition with calculations in red
Bilvo- CoBt °t a pair of blood horses, a set of
on rL moun ted harness with crest engraved there-
]jv ’„ open carriage, also a phaeton, and a suit of
of » r l! v L ery ? ear for a “ tiger.” These evidences
mirth and , lowi y spirit were the cause of much
to the beholders. But when they came
ttiohr .“'! ue c their mirth was suddenly stopped,
with a before th_- front door whs a little grave,
a a tombstone over it, on which was cut thj
simple but touching inscription “Tom.” The
churchwardens exchanged ;glances of furtive sub-
pieion, but on© of the party happening 1 to remem-
ber that Parson Koss had a favourite retriever of
that name, the temporary uneasiness passed away.
It seems that this gay churchman cherished,
among his other crotchets, a sort of sub-belief
that horses and dogs have souls—a theory held by
no less a person than John Wesley—and naturally
wanted to mark the spot where his dog was buried,
so as to be able to find him at the Resurrection!
The trustees were very indignant about this. But
why ? The—but, perhaps, it will go off better in
verse. Now—
The inference to us is plain;
We sec no fog 1
If Parson Ross will rise again,
Why not his dog ?
They dug the tombstone up, however, and threw
it over the fence. They have no sentiment,
those rustics of Queanbeyau. And, while we are on
this subject, we may as well give you another piece
of information about the Protestants of that pious
village. When the Reverend Ross "dusted” out
of the p ace no successor was forthcoming. Con-
sequently, the services had to be carried on by the
pastor of an adjoining parish. The Bishop of
Goulburn was applied to to fill the vacancy, but
« 8 ? u util they had paid up the stipend
of Mr. Ross. It seems there was some trouble
about the stipend. There always is. The trustees
refused to comply, and the Protestant religion, for
which so many martyrs bled in the pages of Mr.
I'ox, was very nearly being annihilated in Quean-
beyan at one fell swoop. One of the trustees—
backed, it is understood, by a large following in
the congregation-proposed that the church should
be turned into a hay and corn store. And this
proposal might have been actually carried out.
and tho aevil have taken possession of tho people
a little sooner, if the Reverend Kingsmill, of Gun-
ning, had not oome to tho resoue in the nick of
time (whatever the nick of time may be). So the
devil is at bay for the present, but ready to cut in
at any moment.
There is in England a man named Colonel
Gowen, who would have been useful had he been
m Sydney at the time of the Austral disaster. His
speciality is the raising* of sunken ships. In 1856,
other engineers having failed, the Russian Governl
ment sent for him to America, to see if he could
raise the seventy-six ships of war that had been
SUQ k Sebastopol Harbour, in sixty feet of water
and 36 feet of mud and clay. His chains broke 500
A SETTLEMENT.
LANDLORD: "IN ONE WORD ’ WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO PAY THE ARREARS?”
CEIVE THE MONEY WILL SATISFY YOUR DEMANDS AS SOON AS I RE-
CEIVE THE MONEY WHIGH THE PUBLISHER WILL PAY ME IF BY ACCEPTS THE
NOVE PUBLISHER WILL PAY ME IF HE ACCEPTS THE
ABOUT TO COMMENCE WHEN I HAVE FOUND A SUITABLE SUBJECT AND THE NRCES-
SARY POETIC INSPIRATION."
times, but eventually he raised the whole 76 ships
(the heaviest of which was the Vladimir, of 6000
V?'’ 8 displacement), and cleared the harbour. His
difficulties had been tremendous. Nothin* had
remained of Sebastopol. He had had to build his
own machine-shops and foundry to borrow
£30,000, to cut 3,000,000 feet of timber .‘5OOO miles up
J£^EiI y +£ nd it to the Crimea, and to
double the amount of his machinery owing to an
error in bis calculations. When the work was
came and knighted him. But
let the Colonel tell his own story:—“ He said the
Government would buy my machinery, and
ordered an impartial commission to value it, which
was done, the valuation being 455,000 roubles,
equivalent at that time to £75,833. Accordingly
t0 v. e , called upon the
Minister who had been instructed to pay me
vrfHu and -J? a ? de j- ■, him documents. The
Minister said he did not know how to pay my
claim, that he had made no provision for it in his
budget, and asked me how I would like to take
bonds covering ten years for the amount. I told
him I wanted money, as the Emperor had pro-
mised. Weil, he said, ‘you have been in the
country a long time; you go and travel abroad
tor a month and return here, and I will pay you.’
I went away for a month, and on my return the
Minister declined to pay me. ‘ You made a com-
plaint to the Minister ot Justice about an officer at
bepastopol, and it jeopardised my office. (He had
desired me to make this complaint.) Now I will
be j yo HF ene “y* 1 will never pay you a penny,
and will see that you are not paid.’ I went to the
Grand Duke Corstantine, and had an audience.
He received me kindly, saying he was sorry I had
to come a second time for my pay. I told him I
had not yet been paid. ‘The Minister says you
have, he said. *1 paid you,’ added the Minister,
who was present. I again protested that I had not
been paid; but Duke Constantine said he could
allow no altercation before him, and that the
Minister was a Minister of the Crown. I replied
that there was no reason why a Minister of the
Crown should try to deprive me of my property or
us equivalent. ‘ Whom shall I believe,’ ssid the
Grand Duke, at length; ‘a Minister of the Crown,
whom I have known ever since I was a boy, or you
a stranger, whom I have known for only six years?’’
It is unnecessary to believe either of us If I
have been paid, there is a receipt in the Treasury
for it. Send to the Treasury and see.’ The Grand
Duke looked at me. ‘Do you think I would doubt
the word of a Minister of the Crown ?’ he said
sternly. * This audience is at an end.’ And I have
never seen him since, nor got a penny. I have
spent five years and £5OOO in attempting to get
paid, but without success. The Minister who de-
frauded me is dead. I shall never get paid now.”
The Colonel s friends floated a company in 1864, to
raise galleons sunk in the Gulf of Vigo by the
British fleet in 1792, and supposed to have a freight
worth ten millions. Two of the galleons were
seized by the British during the War of Succes-
sion, and there was a million in them. The Colonel
got a concession from the Spanish Government,
but Napoleon interfered, and tbo enterprise was
spoiled. Ihe I’rince of Orange and Napoleon then
secured the concession, and asked him to take the
management, but he refused. They sent down a
hrench engineer, who raised two ingots of silver
weighing 751 b. The shares of their company then
went up 400 per cent. Orders were sent from
I aris for him to work on another vessel. Then
the Jranco-German W'ar broke out, and nothing
has been done since. Colonel Gowou says he could
get a commission from the Spanish Government
to-morrow by giving them 25 per cent, out of the
profits. The galleons lie in from four to ten
fathoms. They, are buried in the sand, but he
could reach them. It would cost about £2O 000-
and he is confident there are £5,000,000 in the gal-
leons.
* * *
R. S. O’Connor, Chief Magistrate of Singa-
pore, was erstwhile police constable in Victoria in
the Kchuca-riot day. Of course he was an “aw-
fleer. . . Mr. James Carmichael, of the Australian
Press, still plods his weary way in torrid Singa-
pore. Car. lately disported himself at Bangkok.
He is correspondent for the Queensiander, and
is growing decidedly fat. ..Some 3 American papers
give an account of a Victorian millionaire called
Lord Rupert,swood, who, they say, is worth 200
million dollars and has eight million acres of free-
hold. They mean W. J. Clarke, of course. As we
wish our N.S. Wales resources to be equally well
known to the American Press, we may state that
our Duke of Bundaberg has an estate of thirty-
eight million acres, freehold, city property to the
value of seventy-five millions, and shears nine
hundred million sheep annually. And we only
reckon him as just getting along, as it were....
Bragge Slack, who had been cutting his own
throat these 30 years, finished the process effec-
tually last week—George Milner Stephen has
been known to observe that there are only two
men in Australasia who completely understand
the arts of composition and punctuation—” One is
my brother, Sir Alfred Stephen, C. 8., G.C.M.G.,
and the other is, aw, myself.” This fact, perhaps,
accounts for Sir Alfred feeling it necessary to
stack to the table in order to watch the construe-
tion of clauses and occasionally suggest alterations
where he thinks them necessary, which is passim.
It is said that to Sir Alfred the world is indebted
for that no bie canon of construction: “When in
doubt as to which of several expressions to use,
hitch on to the most involved, and damn the ex-
pense!”
• • •
During tlie Revision, two have resigned
and ten have_died out of the twenty-seven mem-
bers of the Old Testament Company originally
appointed by Convocation The Duchess of
Hamilton, who has hitherto had no children, is
expecting an interesting event shortly. Should
the new-comer be an heir, it will considerably put
out of jpint the nose of a certain individual well-
known in Australia ...At one of his own parties
in Pins, the recently deceased Lord Cowley was
leaning against the mantel-piece, when an un-
known gentleman said to him, “ Do you mean to
Cowley’s parties are never livelier
than this ? ’ “Never.” “ Well,” said the stranger,
then I shall take myself off at once.” “You’re
a lucky man,” said Lord Cowley, with a sigh; "I’m
obliged to stop. ’ Madame Indie, during her
American tour, receives £3OO a night. Maior-
General Farrell Pennycuick, whose wife is an
Australian lady, has been awarded a distinguished
service pension of £lOO per annum James Thom-
son, of Stonehaven, a British soldier who accom-
panied Napoleou to Elba, and who stood sentry at
Ponte I*errajo over the fallen conqueror, has iust
died, aged 90... .The oldest clergyman of the Angli-
can Church is Rev. Richard Moore, vicar of Lund-
ln-the-fcylde, who is 94, and was ordained in 1815,
e /o r f e , Waterloo.. The Pope’s toe, which the
faithful have kissed with veneration, is now the
object of unusual interest. His Holiness is suffer-
ing from an ingrowing nail, which renders the
least pressure of the foot so intensely painful that,
literally putting his best foot forward, he now
presents the left at an audience instead of the
rißnt, winch has hitherto done duty upon such
occasions*
nnn,Ji e *? av * u £ arrived at the crave
fts earW ™ a , a ac countof Melbourne/from
?- s i OWII , t 0 tho Present time, is
wanf®?’- bas k . incsl y undertaken to “supply that
leetebln Pffn B ® rieS °k Saturda y articles, which de-
m^i»a!f,„ effu * 8 P DS : by the a,d of 80m e splendidly
pafnt on ICS ’i ar . e PPf tiD ? one more coat of
vnlmir Viifp already highly-coloured belief of
cnuirai oi/P 4 w nB 4 ln the , magnificence of their
hv P f J ty ‘ Tbe A »«PS, for instance, commences
P y forming- its readers that the “ City of Mel-
dSSTni 8 )fZ? tlmes as lan?,: as the city of Lon-
citv of Tm.al , ars ' e ?; Population than that of the
London by about 15,000 souls;” and piles
by ex P ,aini '“f that "Melbourne is
Kniland ~t cV t ho Bame extent, that London <is
*u h a P a P e r to cram stuff like this
nev(u- t hfft b t r hp i t9 V 1 a lot c f young- people who’ve
dfsTfnPtfrm be a ir ho “ e8 > 18 simply sickening. No
nnrmwi lotsl^ between London and the few
narrow streets which compose the old “ City,” nor
vi/ h exp J a A ni " B ' lbat population-
viz., tho TCiSidiCiits —of tho Citv ” aro (io(*rpfisinir
inflated* 5 vourfi “m* ts wealth increases. How is the
Melbournian to understand that
? a a v uy cf the parishes” of the city of London
hm seR f ,mf /l e , n t fh eXCept tbe caretakers of ware-
ph>VnflnlP d pl b t the poor-rates levied on the mer-
siS it,o “p me(l ln an annual Parochial feed,
tbere are no Poor to relieve ? How
readW th« . < ?? I P e l .? any conclusion, alter
111 , 6 -Auous blow, except that the aver-
n? f hol. < ? Cka reBide B in a place one-seventh part
Tn n, e ?L h s . unapproachable Melbourne ?
ia iniPvl.lV K Bt * at stlcs - comparing the two cities,
bl it’ somehow, nothing seems to go
down with the Melbourne public like this extrava-
£ a pt gush over themselves and their belongings,
Ban ? e article tells us “there is something
tVatnP People ot Melbourne which widely differen-
i * t rom the people of other large cities
in this Southern hemisphere.” Now, there’s an
Victorhin'fVet° f drawin * attentlpn to the size of
The laws of Victoria are something like
those of the aneient Medes and Persians, inasmuch
as they are unalterable. That is, they are rigidly
enforced so far as the plebeians are concerned, but
when the aristocrats of that favoured colony arc
interested then a loophole can be discevered with-
c«t tine aid of a microscope. The Victorian law
relating to the importation of dogs has hitherto
been stringently carried out, and all dogs, of what-
VoPP breed, size, age, religion, or nationality, have
been compelled to undergo a six months’ spell of
quarantine before being allowed to associate with
their colonial brethren. On the arrival of Sir H. B.
Boch, the new and popular Governor of tbe “ Cab-
bage Garden,” it was found that his suite
comprised a favourite Gordon setter, a valuable
and, we might add, a handsome dog—a dog of no
common origin, but one of aristocratic breed—in
tact, a near relation to the Rev. Ross’s “purp,” a
Queanbeyan poodle upon whose high-toned an-
cestry some of our best poets have poured out
their souls in pteons of merited praise. Just as
5, r Hf, nry as about to step lightly ashore at
Sandridge, after braving the perils of the deep and
enduring the blighting influence of a Melbourne
herald reporter, he was in the act of puckering
HP uw lips to whistle for his dawg\ when
the übiquitous Berry, who happened to be near,
grabbed the G overnor’s coat tail, and, drawing 1 him
to one side, informed him of the terrible pains and
penalties that he would incur by allowing the
animal to place one of its aristocratic paws on Vic-
torian soil. Here was a pretty fix I “Love me,
love my dog,” was an aphorism that Sir Henry be-
lieved in, and to go ashore without that poodle he
did not so much as dream of. The alternative of
quarantining such a noble auimal—in whose veins
coursed the blue blood of aristocratic canines—
with a lot or mangy curs that could, at best, only
trace their pedigrees a few years back, was even
worse. What was to be done ? Grand prepara-
tions had been made for Sir Henry’s reception—
officially, of course. The standing army of Vic-
toria had bean drilled into a fairly efficient system
of presenting arms, without running any great risk
of poking their bayonets into each others’ eyes, and
Commandant Sargood had the Victorian marines
out in their new uniforms, and all other arrange-
ments were fixed up in regard to spectacular effect.
But the Governor would not desert his dog. Then
it was that the mighty intellect of the only Berry
grappled with the question, and in hot haste he
started off his equerry-ln-waiting with an official
despatch to the Government printer conveying in-
structions for the immediate issue of a gazette
Extraordinary containing a Royal edict to the
effect that the back-yard of the Government
House had been proclaimed a special quarantine
ground for the sol© use of the vice-regal poodle.
Thus the people s Berry again became the saviour
of his adopted country for the Governor landed, the
procession moved on, and Lady Loch shook hands
with the statesmen of Victoria, including Hugh
M Coll. Nevertheless, Berry is not happy. H« is
now pestered with application from all parts of the
colony requesting that the back yards of the ap-
plicants should be proclaimed special quarantine
grounds. Wasn t it lucky that no stringent laws
were in force in re the importation of brahma-
pootras when our own Gussy entered our beauti-
ful harbour 1 For we have no Berry. PThank
heaven I—Ed. B.]


MADAME WOODYEAR’S ELECTRIC CIRCUS
AND great LONDON EQUESQUIRICULUM,
BELMORE PARK, Sydney.
Mirbtly drawing crowded audiences. The Beautiful Palace Marquee, (hat cost £5OO, elegantly fitted,
decorated and brilliantly lduminaicd. Under the ample I olds of winch visitors can enjoy a
recherche Entertainment with all Ihe comforts and ease obtainable in their o vn dr iwiru-rooms. A
Mracious Vtsitbule Pavilion is also provided as a lounge or Garde 1 Promenade in whicti gentlemen
nfav enioy their smoke The performances need no puff. It is everywhere admitted that the c< m-
pany of artists is the best, ever brought to Australia, and that the Stud ot Horses and Ponies it magni-
ficent. The natuiai result of so much excelloi ce is LHOWOED HOUSES.
MATINEE EVERY SATURDAY AT 2 O’CLOCCK.
DONALD DINNIE, (he world-renowned Scotch athlete, and Champion Wrestler of the world, will
continue to appear.
Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FKDERAL MINSTREL* arid Spe-
cialty Onion, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks' Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
W.
Sydney.
m HEA TKE ROY AL.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Continued Success of Williamson, (lamer, and
Musgrove’s Royal Comic Opera Company.
Thn old enthusiasm revived with the M iguiftcent
Production of Audran s world-famed Comic
Opera,
LA MASCOTTE LA MASCOTTE
LA MASCOTTE LA MASCO ITE.
THIS and TO-MORROW EVENING, only.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 27,
First production in Australia of Mr. Luscoinbe
Searelle s Opera, “ESTRELL A.”
PRICES: Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 3?.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
O
E R
H O
S E
Lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of
It IGN O L D and ALLISON.
Acting Manager Monty Browne.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, and FRIDAY,
MISS DE GREY,
supported by Mrs. Chippendale and Miss De Grey's
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY,
will produce, for two nights only, the beautiful
comedy,
LONDON ASSURANCE.
SATURDAY EVENING, the Comedy Drama,
MOTHS. MOTHS. MOTHS.
Business Manager { for Miss (Mr. A L Canard.
Stage Manager )De Grey (Mr. t. T. Lingham.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Huonerbein’s, 411
George-street.
Gr
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
LESSEE AND MANAGER :
MR. Wf BERT HEKVE.
Last Two Nights of Mr. Wybert Reeve and bis
powerful Company. Last Two Nights of MOTHS.
Saturday next, the powerfully sensational Tem-
perance Drama, A Bl' OF BLUE RIBBO*.
Re-appearance of Mr. and Mrs. Ogden and a great
Company. _ . _ , ,
Box Plan Nicholson’s. Tickets Loder 8 Hot-1.
Business Manager, G. A. COLEMAN.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
25th WEEK. 25th WEEK.
Unparalleled Success.
HISCOCKS' FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS.
Glorious Soccers of
PLUCKY YOUTH, OR LITES O’ SYD'EY.
Saturday Evening, an entire change ot programme.
Prices as usual. Box plan at P«ln.g’», where
Pianos for this entertainment are suppl ed.
MISS BLANCHE REIVES, haviDg played Lady
Teazle, Bheiah, Pauline, Laune lot Gobbo, Ist
Witch, Maritana, Corney.Uph-- lia. Duchess of Yortr,
nay Edwards Sam, Amina, Keener, Moya. Portia,
Nurse, Josephs, Lady Isabel, Ralph Raolrstraw,
Lady Oedlock, Fra biavolo, Honense, Whitting-
t >n, Diana Vernon, Area Jack. Osric, Anne Chute-
G ly, Defendant, Marie, Captain Littlepop, Gret-
,;.ien, Desdemoua—hut what more would you
hive? Disengaged. Any colony (never bom
sauth of Albiiry). Address-18, Napier-streec,
oydney.
-EXHIBITION BUILDING.
JHAE KE ALOHA IA VE O SYDNEY.
ANN IS MONTAGUE S
GRAND FAREWELL CONCERT.
THURSDAY’’. OCTOBER 2nd. 1834.
The following uisringu'shed jaitistes have gra-
ciously tendered their services:
Miss ALICE RERS (Madame Vogricb)
Herr MAX VOGRICH
Mons. LEON CARON
Mr. ANDREW FAIRFAX
Mr. CHARLES TURNER
and a host of others, whose names will shortly be
announced.
Box Plan now open at Paling's Music Warehouse.
FULL PROGRAMME Satutday’s Hkhalp aud
Daily Telegraph.
Reserved Chairs, 55.; second Seats, 35.: Third
Seats, 2s.
H. Ti'IEVORAH, Business Manager.
ANCI N G .
puOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, cooieet, most elegantly f mushed
in Australia, to Reut for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castiereagh street, near Bathurst-strcet. P. 6.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all he
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring floor, <Sc. No decorations required.
MY DRAPERS,
436 and 436 a GEORGE STREET.
'::i ■
NEW DEPARTMENT.
NEW DEPARTMENT.
NEW DEPARTMENT.
DRESSMAKING.
DRESSMAKING.
DRESSMAKING.
DAVIES and CO.
Having secured the services of a First-class
BNGLTSH DRESSMAKER,
we beg publicly to notify that on October the 6th
wo shall be prepared to take orders for
DRESSMAKING
in all its
BRANCHES.
WE GUARANTEE A PERFECT FIT.
WE GUARANTEE THE LATEST STYLES.
WE GUARANTEE THE BEST WORKMANSHIP.
WE GUARANTEE TO DO THE WHOLE THING
PROPERLY.
Our Charges will be as Low as it is Possible to
Make Them.
On OCTOBER the 6th, we shall begin, when our
STOCK of the LATEST PRO uUOTIONS in DRESS
FABRICS, PRINTS, SATEENS, and FANCY
GOODS will be complete.
We have just finished our now SHOW-ROOM
for PRINTS, SATEEN, and DRESS GOODS gene-
rally, where we have
A PERFECT LIGHT.
We OPEN our
DRESSMAKING DEPARTMENT.
On OCTOBER 6th.
DAVIES & CO.
“My Drapers,”
“ My Dressmakers,”
KIANDRA HOUSE
436 and 436 a GEORGE STREET,
(Between King and Market streets.)
LEAVE THE TRAM AT MARKET STREET.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney. 23rd September, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance w hen the tendors
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of thn Board huve terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Manufacture and Sup>>iy of
Main Line Pipes and Valves,
Sydney Water Supply
Additions to Police Barracks,
Wilcannia
Tank, Fencing', &c., Post and
Telefnaph Office, Cannonbar
Erection of Lockup, &e., Tum-
berumba
Erection of Brick Wall and an
additional Room, Musclebrook
Court house
Collection of Tolls at Saekville
and Portland Ferries
Tuesday,
301 h September,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Eeuciug, Stack-,
Stores, &c., Hay Post Office
Bridge over Macquarie River-
road, .Alteon Park, to Dapto
Bridge over Muttama Creek,
Sutton-street. Cootamundra
Supply of Railway arc! Tram-
way Small Stores, 1885
Tuesday,
7th October,
at 11 o'clock.
Additions, &c., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Playney
Erection of Wall, Watch-house,
AP erations to Clock Tower, Post
and Telegraph Office, Kiama
Erection ot Police Huildings
Tarcutta
Tuefdav,
14th October,
at 11 o'clock.
Pumping: Machinery,new Grav-
ing' Dock at Cockatoo Island
TutSday,
ICth December
at 11 o’clock
Manufacture aim supply ol
150,000 Tons of Steel Kails.
MD February,
1885,
at 11 o'clo k.
F. A. WEIGHT.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Officeb : 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of Kin;?-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYB.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNIN YONG
BARRABOOL
BUKWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
KONOOWARRA
LEURA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney
SPECIAL NOTICE.—ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming; Baths
(the -n)y pure pea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladles and Gentlemen lum
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 215.; Monthly Tickeie, 5s ; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 2ls.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 20th August.
1877. Six Lessons, 21s The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-oi-an-hour.
171 BLACKBURN, Wrestler, a letter f)r you
at this office.
WANTED an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
Englavlog Business. Premium required.
Apply at this Office.
EXTENSION OE PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
Messrs. 18, LLOYD & CO.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen.
A Mag'niflcemt NEW STOCK was selected by Mr.
Lloyd in London, Paris, and in Ireland.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF DRESSING GOAVNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF TE\ GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTHING.
An endless variety of Dressing Gowns, Tea Gowns, Morning Wraps, Cashmere Robes, Children s
Washing Pelisses and Ca-hmere Frocks. (The most complete stock ever shown.;
ERIN-GO-BRAGH!
IRISH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHING. I LONDON MACHINE-MADE UNDERCLOTHING.
LADIES’ DRAWERS, CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRESSES.
An array beggaring description. Moderate prices. Call and ask for illustrated Catalogue.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TUBF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT ITREET.
KJO
m
EJ
1
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE II
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAB&ROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies Imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
M EDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfsst and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, AgentTlisTl Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane and Adelaide:
BOUHEB,
I. the largest ami best-appointed Family Hotel in the Western Pbtrict. The Table and Ljquorf
cannot be surpassed, even in tfcc Metropo is. Private Suites for iamilies. First-claes btaol f?
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.


8S“ THIRTY SHILLINGS.
ggai
IS" THIiITY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
ORIENTAL gold
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist's art. It looks like
Sold, it is as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring.
one but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severest tests. Ornaments made
from this new composition arc equal in design and
general appearance to those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe of
the Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals *
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the storlinsr gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trad3 become, that jewellers through-
put the colonies are complaining of the dullness
in trade, and are constantly writing to-us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured—we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the articles not retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
N.B —We And that, through an error on the part
of the manufacturers, we are overstocked with
Brooches, and for the purpose of making a rapid
clearance of that line of Goods, we will send to
a, ssL? uB *'2P?, l ! (P oB * free, if at a distance) on receipt
Shillings (55.), a really exquisite Oriental
Gold Brooch, equal in design, finish, and appear-
ance to a Five Guinea Brooch of the sterling metal.
This offer holds good for a few weeks only, and is
made as much for the purpose of advertising our
Oriental Jewellery by sample as for any other
reason ; for the Brooches will keep, and they are
of the latest design. “To see is to want,” is a
saying so applicable to our goods, that it pays us,
in the long run, to forward to any person a sample
Brooch at eost price. Examine our catalogue, and
write to us or call on us for what you may desire.
Remember the Address :
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, 155., 205., and 265. each;
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 65., 65., 7s. 6d.,
Bs., Bs. 6d., 95., and 10s. a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. 6d. to 80s.; Ladies’ very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2los. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
78. to 158. a pair ; Ladies’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, 15s. to 305.; Ladies’very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaines, 30s. each ; Ladies’
choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. 6d., 205., 225.
6d., 255., 2<s. 6d., 305., 355., and 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 15s, 205., and 30s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Rings, from 2s. 6d. to Bs. 6d. each; Solid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Qent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £2 5 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 16 0
Bame as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 0 8
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert .. . . .£450
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 6 0
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance ..£660
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 3 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15 0
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph.
with Oriental Gold Albert .. .. £5 5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 6
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket .. ... 10 0
We import pur watches direet from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost loss than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 6s. 6d.,
S ,, iS d Vi 88 u 6< U and IJ°B‘ 1 J ° 8 ‘ each ! Gents’ Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby Rings, 7s. 6d.
aad 8 2' A d * each 5 Gent s Oriental Gold Rings,
plain half, round buckle, flat broad buckle, en-
graved, good luck rings, &c., &c., from 6s. to
8s- sa. each; Gent a richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 75., 7s. 6d., Bs.,
88. 6d., 95., 10s., and 12s. 6d. per set; Same as
above, only half sots, 35., 45., and ss. per set;
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s, per set; Gent’s elegant Seals, real
stones, 7s. 6d., Bs., 95., 10s., and 12s. 6d. each;
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs. t
10s., and 12s. 6d. each; Gents’ Oriental Gold Al-
berts. handsome patterns, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Al-
berts, made specially to our order, 17s. (id., 205.,
255., and 30s. each.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre ROTAii—“ La Mascotte ” p.B.
Opera House—“ London Assurance” ib.
Gaiety Theatre—” Moths ” ib.
Academy oe MusiC—Federal Minstrels ib.
Belmore Park— Woodyear’s Circus ib.
A trifle more than ordinary interest was
aroused in the small minds of the theatre habituis
by the production of “Moths” at the Gaiety,
partly because some sympathy is felt for Mr.
Reeve (he will act) who has been singularly unfor-
tunate, and partly because the adaptation of
Ouida’s libidinous legend was announced to
have been executed by Mr. Leopold Jordan, a
recent literary importation, who is partially con-
cealed in gloves and partially covered with glory.
We went to see “Moths” because we knew you
would want us to tell you something about it. AVe
knew this, because you weren’t out yourself to
any great extent—pr obably having learned by sad
experience that it is better to wait for our verdict
than to trust yourself in the hands of a local play-
wright. But you needn’t have stayed away from
the Gaiety on this account, for “ Moths ” is better
than a lot of dramas that have been brought all
the way out from home and had a successful run
in the colonies. We confess that we had our sus-
picions as to Mr. Jordan’s literary abilities, and
fully expected to have to recommend him to a
more rigid training with a wood-saw or a pick and
shovel, for he wrote a farce for the Minstrels not
long ago that came very near killing the business
and sending Hiscocks off on a provincial tour. But
he has agreeably surprised us, and we want to see
you out in full force to-night (Thursday) and to-
morrow night.
* • *
There are a lot of people who have never
read “Moths” in the original, and to them we
must say that it is the most powerful of Ouida’s
works. The plot, in brief, is that Lady Dolly, a
society moth, has succeeded in rearing a very
pretty daughter, Vera, in the country. At the age
of 16 the girl, who is high-principled and above all
ideas of hypocrisy, is introduced to Parisian
society, where an old Russian Prince falls in love
with her and wants to marry. Of course the giddy
head of Lady Dolly is turned by this, although her
daughter loathes the Prince and loves the Marquis
de Correze, a famous and wealthy opera singer.
Then the mother, the Prince, and a lot of auxilia-
ries conspire to secure Vere for the Prince. No-
thing moves the girl until her mother on bended
knees implores her daughter to save her, as
she has been a wicked, sinful woman and her
reputation is entirely at the mercy of the Prince.
And right here we want to tell Mr. Jordan
that the weakest point in his play is the fact
that he doesn’t bring his intriguing out with
sufficient distinctness to catch the sympathies of
the audience for his heroine. Vera should be posed
as a martyr, the victim of all sorts of cruelty and
deceit. Instead of that, after she marries the Prince
she goes about with black lines under her eyes and
never smiles except on somebody else than her hus-
band. All this time the Prince is trying to ‘make up’
to her. tryiDg to please her, and telling her of his
love. Finally, he gets tired of that kind of a wife,
and proceeds to rule the roost with an iron hand.
And the audience sympathise with him rather
than with her, for there isn't a man in Sydney
who wouldn’t hammer hades out of such a wife,
or else shoulder his swag and slope for good. But
this defect in the play may be easily reme-
died by the introduction of a few lines here
and there, and there is no telling to what
success the piece may attain. Mr. Jordan, with
pardonable weakness, has introduced a few little
jokes of his own; and we can conscientiously state
that there is nothing in these pleasantries of his
which would be calculated to bring up a blush to
the cheek of anyone—but the author. There was,
in the course of the play, the usual wrestling with
and throwing the unfortunate French language.
What principally puzzled the players, seemed to
be the word Monsieur: it was pleasantly varied as
“ Mushoo,” “ Moshoo,” “ Merceer,” “ Moon&eer,”
and not unfrequently “ Moosher.” In sentimental
passages, however, Miss Knight usually adopted
the form “ Mer-shoo”—a rendering which appeared
to perfectly satisfy an audience which was of an
essentially “friendly.” character.
* * *
The representation of the piece was of a
rather bizarre nature, but instructive, withal—since
during the unfolding of the fable, we were treated
to the delineation of numerous phases of character,
both native and foreign, which were new to us,
despite a somewhat careful study on our part of
the denizens of Great Britain and the Continent.
We tried hard, for instance, to fancy Mr. Edwin
Palmer, who played Prince Zouroff, a Russian
noble. We don’t know, of course, what mana-
gerial instructions Mr. Palmer received relative to
his make-up; but, as it was, he appeared the very
counterpart of Nick La Feuillade—a compliment
which, we trust, that distinguished musician will
not fail to duly appreciate. It is said-that when
the Allies’ foreign prisoners were in England their
British guards, by way of making themselves the
more easily understood, were wont to converse
with the unfortunate captives in broken English;
and, indeed, Mrs. Plornish, it will be remembered,
conversed with Cavalleto invariably in a dialect of
her own, chiefly composed of distorted Bleeding-
heart Yard phrases. Mr. Palmer is evidently a
disciple of Mrs. Plornish, and, though he adopt ; a
peculiar vernacular, it is but fair to state that he
appears to be frequently understood by the other
characters. As Mr. Palmer is labelled a Russian
i we cheerfully accept him as such; and are
glad to be able to state that his acting is away
ahead of his dialect.
* * *
With regard to Miss Maggie Knight’s
P® r l f, ori ' l mcs of Vera, it was, regarded in the
ngnt ot a study, eminently unsatisfactory. It was
Ht£ a iT ent from the first that Miss Knight did not
hf ? S er P ar t» and so concentrated her attention on
r „ dl ]? 88ea > one which was enriched by a dis-
P*/of crmolette that was awe-inspiring. Some-
the piece says of her, “ She stands like a
ii i Fancy a statue in a crinolette I Byway
„iV* v ®® ln g up the dialogue, we shall be happy to
ho nice young lady a wrinkle. This little
pit, now, would be sure to “take”:—
• Zouroff: I make you—l, Prince Zouroff—an
„ offer.
Vera: And I decline, Prince Zouroff, zour-
offer.
• • •
Th e Correze of Mr. Wybert Reeve was in-
onß ut ’ , w hen he entered, he always gave
ans th!L 1< L e , a he had just left his hairdresser,
Arp Ho hairdresser had dyed that morning,
of w„n rry eston could make nothing of the Duke
hp woo ’ exce pt what that nobleman was duke of—
bpinJ lB „ B, 3 rp ,. nBln £i y dull. And this came very near
cnmEiii teBt P art > only that stupidity rather than
in n 6™ Tu 8 wa nted. It is easy enough to be *unny
noBe and an eye in the middle of
raßnnfo <^ ellead ’ -hut it is quite a different thing
°f dittos^ riDfi: fua when arrayed only in a “ suit
\t- * * *
eushfn ars ton Leigh’s Fuschia Leach, a
stmn^ A, ?^ ican damsel, savoured just about as
cow 8 lL 01 floMon as Prince Zouroff did of Mos-
verr dresses were elegant, and she was a
“ Ynrv o 6 rnadame who had spent a fortnight in
turnpri c ook’s tourist party and had re-
end U p..? er friends (and her shrimps) at Graves-
Miss RblqF i, p ? the heat conception of the lot was
have S I aimer’s Lady Dolly; though we could
kaleidrJn!?- her dresses had not been quite so
the Prin^ 10, MlBB kflde Bryer looked—we adopt
the TiiiHuZ? vernacular for the nonce— sonnaze as
in reanpnt f of nam e, but was a little wild
Pect ot some of her entrances and exits.
rp. • • •
* a tiBfact^r°J ln th inS u° f the piece was hi S hl y
considpp?^ y 'though we consider that the Prince,
tain in,'?*? 18 rank and millions, exhibited a cer-
■ Parsimoniousness in only having
advertiairf F? , e gardens, which are extensively
ir U ip D at 48 l o d. The band executed several
a“d uttpni? 8 , w ithdue ferocity; and the politeness
praise UUoa ot fhe various ushers are beyond all
Before leaving the Gaiety, however, we
| must tell you that Mr. and Mrs. D’Orsay Ogden
open a four weeks' season there on Saturday night
in “ A Bit of Blue.” It is a temperance drama of
considerable reputation, and Mrs. Ogden ii said to
play the leading female role in a way that almost
dazzles the critics. We are going to see the piece,
for we are dying to be dazzled like we used to be
by Genevieve Ward and a few others who are not
dead, but ought to be.
** * *
It is a matter ot regret to us, who love
everything that is {esthetic and that is beautiful,
who have outlived our love for opera bouife
pages,” our passion for “ Pretty Blue Eyes,” and
burnt cork “ witticisms it is a matter of regret
to us, we say, that the condition of the Opera
House on Monday night goes some way to indicate
that, lovely as Miss de Grey is, classic as her reper-
toire is, nice, clean, and clover as her company are,
a grovelling and dastardly public appear to have
grown callous to the fact, that, at Mr. Wilson’s
theatre, for ss. or 3s. or 3s. or Is. they can be edu-
cated, elevated, and amused. Miss de Grey
started with a big boom, and it was con-
sidered by many that the dramatic reaction on the
part of the public being so strongly developed, it
would soon be incumbent upon the fair Marie to
show either in the Exhibition Building or in Wyn-
yard-square, in order to accommodate the crowds
which would flock to mentally feed on the old
English comedies. Btit,!no! All of a sudden, the
beef-eating grovellers hold back, and the loan of
Joe Browne’s ulster becomes a necessary ad-
junct to comfort in the dress-circle.
• • •
There are many reasons for accounting
for the sudden collapse of public patronage. It
might be because “ An Unequal Match ” is more of
an unequal comedy than an “old’’one; the non-
appearance of Beach in a private box might, per-
haps, account for the poverty of the attendance;
Mrs. Chippendale being out of the cast might
possibly have kept away a few admiring millions
of the “ legitimate ”; and we consider that, taking
into account the elevated class of the entertain-
ment, the managemement committed a grave error
in not having it announced as under the patronage
and in the presence of Mr. Dan. O’Connor. The
fact, however, remains that the push stayed away
with a “ unanimity ” that was “ remarkable.”
However, we went—partly as a representative of
the aristocracy, and partly to answer the call of
duty. And we had an entertainment, the perfume
of which is still upon us. It was calm, pleasant,
ABOUT HALF-WAY.-"FROM PAN TO PINAFORE.”
unexciting, and demure; and, as we used to say to
the hostess when our nurse came to fetch us away
from a juvenile party, we thank Miss do G. for “a
very pleasant evening.”
• • 9
“ An Unequal Match ” is by Tom Taylor,
who was art critic of the Times, editor of London
Punch (in which he used to print his own blood-
curdling In Memoriam verses), and the author of
about 150 plays, the origin of each one of which
can, as some polite critic delicately put it, “ be
traced to a foreign source.” The interest of this
play is centred in one Hester Grazebrook (Miss
de Grey), who (appropriately enough in this in-
stance)
Gives up her milk-walk and marries a swell,
Leaves for a mansion her sweet rustic dell,
Gets jealous, and wants to go back to her delf,
And triumphs by being a fine flirt herself.
And in connection with the milk-maid business,
we may suggest that the extreme brightness of
Miss De Grey's milk-pail is, to the eye or the artist,
less suggestive of the cow than the pump. Alfred,
in his paper, said that Miss de Grey’s impersona-
tion of Hester Grazebrook was a “ pleasing ” one;
upon which, of course, the fair artist at once
ordered a brick to be scented with patchouli, and
covered with satin, keeping it on a majolica pedes-
tal until an opportunity arrives to drop it. Hav-
ing the elegant missile in view, we don’t say Miss
Marie’s was a “pleasing” study of Hester, we pre-
fer rather to say that it was a perfumed one. It
was a charmiDg thing to see her pretending to be
a rustic, and then, ail of a sudden, flashing into a
tine lady; only the next instant to—presto!—meta-
morphose herself into the milk-maid again. It
was, if not strictly artistic, at least protean.
* * *
The thinness of the house, or something
they had had for dinner, evidently had a dispirit-
ing effect upon some of the subordinate members
of the company, though Miss Florence Cowell
made quite a hit as Mrs. Montressor, in the quarrel
scene in the second act. Mr. Morton Selten, a
particularly picturesque gentleman, was Harry
Arncliffe, and a very good Harry Arncliffe, too.
Mr. Selten is quite the antithesis of most jeunes
premiers, who, as Leon Gozlan says, sont toujour*
pales, whereas Mr. Selten is a stage “spoon”
of the robust order. The Blenkinsop of Mr.
Mark Kinghorne was inflniteiy entertaining ;
though it must be admitted that the comic fat
ladled out to him by the author was ivery con-
siderable. The Doctor Botcherby of Mr. J. P.
West (of London and Dubbo) was a performance
which simply amounted to a dramatic nightmare.
His get-up was such that he looked considerably
less like a medical man than a lightning calculator,
his hat, in the first act, being an agonizing castorial
reproach. Mr. J. A. Patterson (of the principal
West-end theatres and Jamberoo) was funny as
Tofts, the comic groom; and Mr. A. T. Hilton
exhibited, some genuine comedy power as the
Farmer Grazebrook. We don’t want to say any-
thing about the rest. And, as we don’t want to,
we shan’t.
* *
Little Blanche Murray, the “ Miss Melville”
of Mr. Hiscocks’ Girards, died last Thursday morn-
ing. Miss Blanche was a very clever, pretty, and
promising little girl, and adds another to the roll
of those who have succumbed to Minstrelsy. Her
funeral was not attended by the “ profession,” we
regret to say; most of the male members of that
distinguished calling having previous engagements
at “ wall-polishing,” “ heading-’em,” and religious
observances of similar tendencies. A few lines :
You’ve gone up where the sky is blue—
We almost wish, dear, we were you !
Up there, there are no frosts or snows,
No Minstrels, sweetest Blanche, or shows.
Up there, amidst the skies, there are
No concerts that are “popular.”
And, Blanche, above that sun-gilt roof,
There is—just think!—no op’ra bouffe.
Oh, little angel, yes, we do,
We really wish that we were you.
** * *
The revival of “The Mascotte” for a week
at the Theatre Royal was not unexpected, inas-
much as it was known that there had been a row
between the chorus and the management, the up-
shot being that quite a troupe of the weak-knee’d
and hollow-eyed sailed away to join Majeroni in
Melbourne. However, things are fixed up all right
now, and another week of “ The Mascotte.” what-
ever effect it may have upon the public, will
enable Mr. Searrelle the better to build up his
opera. The present re-revival of “La Mascotte ”
is chiefly remarkable for the gymnastic efforts of
Miss Nellie Stewart to compass the music allotted
to Bettina. This clever little woman has been
worked so hard that she is fairly fatigued, and it
would be a charitable action on the part of the
management to give Mies Nellie a rest, and let her
give the public one. Miss Fannie Liddiard (whom
we expect to see in grand opera soon) is also tired,
and we should be glad to hear of her taking a well-
earned rest, too—at Madagascar. Mr. Woodfleld
played his old part of the Prince the same as ever,
and Mr. Howard Vernon made a delightfully
lively Pippo. The Duke of Mr. John Wallace
would have been full of “gay conceits” if the
conceits had been gay—but they were not. As
a songster, Mr. Wallace is rather below the
calibre of those distinguished vocalists, Day
and Harwood, though the steam-file rasp of
his high C could hardly be compassed by either of
those gentlemen. The other of the lady performers
who appeared were the familiar Maggies, Aggies,
and Idas, and the gifted Grundy showed as Sassa-
fras in the old familiar style.
• • •
As a matter of fact, the only really artistic
representation in the opera was that of Rocco, by
Mr. Kelly, which is a pure eccentric comedy study,
brimming over with fun, and replete with artistic
by-play. But what is one Saul amongst so many
prophets ?
• • •
On Saturday, “Estrella,” -which we shall
spread ourselves out upon. Before we go, how-
ever, we would tearfully ask the management to
have the dress-circle gas-globes washed. They’d
be an eye-sore even to a critic with a sore eye. The
job, anyhow, would be a throw-in for the trage-
dians who appear to earn a living wearing out the
woodwork of Eastway’s public-house.
** * »
Ever since the time when Satan tumbled
out of heaven and got locked up for impertinence,
the human family have continued to take a lively
interest in gymnastic performances. We believe
that the devil is part human—at least we are sure
that humanity is part devil, so you can have it as
you like. Later on in history we find Adam turn-
ing handsprings out of the Garden of Eden; and,
still later, we read how Noah tumbled out of bed
in the ark. Of course, the old tub was rocking
about a good deal, and Noah had been celebrating
the successful launching of his bark in sundry
glasses of wine; but the impartial reader of
ancient history must be led to the suspi-
cion at once that Mrs. Noah had her back
to ithe wall, and her feet just a little below the
plane where Noah’s waistcoat buckled behind. As
we come further down, we read of Daniel, the
great lion-tamer, who tumble ! into a cave amongst
a lot of wild beasts. This was probably the most
successful tumbling in all history, and had there
been a daily critic on the ground, he would have
written“ The performance was more than even,
and needed only to be seen to be appreciated.”
Then there was Lot’s wife, who turned, and has
For continuation of" Sundry Shows,’’ seepage 17.


PEPPER AND SALT.
There is an advertisementrunning through
all the country papers, but, curiously enough,
through none of the town ones—which we exceed-
ingly admire. The advertisement in question an-
nounces the forthcoming appearance of a publica-
tion which is to be 13s. (“strictly in advance”), and
which is to be delivered, without the intermedia-
tion of agents, alike to “ the lonely shepherd,”
“the adventurous back-blocker ( sic ), and the en-
terprising (sic) squatter.” “It will be left alike,”
says the ad., “ on the threshold of a hut, and in
the entrance of a mansion.” For his 13s. (strictly
in advance), the “adventurous back-blocker” is
to be further endowed with “a Christmas Annual,”
which is to contain (mark this!) “amongst other
novelties (!) a thrilling (sic) story by the late
Mortuary Editor otthb Herald:
“ Well, sir, you may keep your late
mother-in-law’s memory green at the
rate ot' halt'-a-crown per year, if you
stick to prose. Poetry, of course,
runs into a lot of money.”
“ Id affectionate remem-
brance of Robert Snagle,
alias Scaly Bob, who died
suddenly in year 1814.
Gone, but not forgotten.”
The Herald's idea enlarged and im-
proved upon. ;
Mrs Buckles It strikes me, Mr Buckles,
that it is in rather bad taste to publish In
Memoriams ’ to your previous Mrs. Buckleses on
the verv day after taking a new one
Mr. Buckles: “Confound those blundering
printers I The fact is, my dear, I sent a notice to
the Herald of our marriage, and the blockheads
have gone and put in the usual thing, by mistake,
instead ! "
In loving remembrance of a dis-
tant relation of ours, who died some
time during the reign of Raineses 11.
from the effects of bathing in the
river Nile too soon after breakfast.
We can scarcely realize that he is
gone i
The “ Herald's " Mortuary Bard (in the agonies of composition);
" Plague take it! What rhymes to farewell. Let me see now—
sQ&Lhjuf 7%*z<
yf/iu, Jt.
'jfLf- ty*
Hang it all, it doesn't read smoothly.”
The “In Memoriam” Craze.
Charles Dickens, never before published in Austra-
lia!” 8o many of the late Charles Dickens s
tories (“thrilling” and otherwise) have been
published in Australia, that the lattter announce-
ment solved all doubts (if, indeed, any had really
existed in our minds) as to the genuineness of the
concern. Owing to the high prevailing price ot
jam, we are unable to invest thirteen shillings
ourselves; butassoonas these tempting publica-
tions shall have arrived in the hands of any one
richer (and more enterprising) than ourselves, we
shall be glad to peruse them in an interval of
greasing the machinery.
* ® *
“ A sudden death took place at Mrs. Tur-
ner’s Hotel, Narribri, last Wednesday. A man
named M’Guire was at dinner, and having at-
tempted to swallow a piece of meat which was
too large, was choked thereby, only living a few
minutes afterwai’ds.” This comes of promoting
one of Alfred’s bards to the editorship of the
Narrabri Northern Eylet. It was too much
glory for him, poor fellow! The bound, you know,
was too great—from the hazardous counter-lunch
to the full radiance of a bush table d'hote.
alas!
Alas, his was a sorry tale—
This hungry scribbling elf;
His lump of beef would not go down,
So he's gone down himself.
• • •
Under the heading “Another Impostor,”
the Evening News says:—“From our Mudgee
correspondence we learn that a big impostor has
I been palming himself off in Mudgee as a reporter
of the Evening News, and on the strength of this
people have gladly taken him in during the last
fortnight, and not only given him board, but
money. He has cleared out now that his impos-
ture has been discovered, and he is probably gull-
ing somebody else.” According to this, the
Mudgee people, if they can’t tell an Evening
News man when they see him, have, at any rate,
a tolerably clear idea of what the genuine man
would be likely to expect. Board and money!
Humph!
* * *
One “Moutrose” forwards us a poem on
‘ The Champion Contest.” It is an exciting pro-
duction, but, if anything, a trifle too classical for
our taste. He says:— , . . „
“ Each bravely strives with steady stroke and full
(sic ),
And how to bow the champion oarsmen pull.”
It occurs to us that “ Montrose ” has taken out
too much license here. Our experience is that
oarsmen don’t pull bow to bow at all. This is pro-
bably because if they did the length of time re-
quired for a sculling match would be excessive?
This is a fine burst, though;—
“ Uhdo's Point appears, and, verging slow ahead,
Ilanlan is seen to have by little led.”
We can also recommend the following with confi-
dence:—
“ A laboured breathing scarcely strikes the ear,'.
All silence honor, as from infelt fear.”
We should like to have another poem from Mon-
trose. We should, indeed. That is, if it does not
take him too long away from the dye-tub to make
’em. And when he brings the MS., he can take
back our last Summer's pants in the cart.
* * *
One of thegood, old-fashioned, rouseabout
weddings we often read about, but seldom see,
was successfully pulled off at Bealiba, Avoca dis-
trict, Victoria, on Wednesday week, the bride being
a giddy, gushing young thing of 65 summers, and
the bridegroom a son of La Belle France who had
successfully withstood the assaults of all female
charms for 54 years, only to yield up his sword at
last and retire from the conflict vanquished.
During the hitching ceremony, the frisky bride
was so tickled at something that she giggled
continually, and was only brought to a more
staid demeanour by the clergyman informing
her that if she didn’t hold her “ yap ” he
would pack up and go home, and leave her
neither a maid, wife, nor widow, but a half-married
nondescript, as it were, “ for the hand of scorn to
point his slow, unmoving Anger at.” At night,
the flour and poultry doings were calculated to
bring moisture to the lips of even a wooden god;
and, when the blissful hour of sweet repose came,
quite a classical tone was given to the shivoo by a
crowd of miscellaneous choristers armed with
kerosene-tins, bullock-bells, etc., ranging round
the bed-roorn window and enthusiastically yelling
the only song known about the Bealiba district,
viz., “ Old John Brown lies mouldering in his
grave.” It was a trifle rough on the ancient
groom inside, but it was the only epithalamium
his friends knew, and they gave him plenty of it.
Verily it taketh a Government department
to mes 3 things up most thoroughly. An edict has
just gone forth from the Minister of Works to the
effect that children, who are not in arms, travelling
on the trams will be charged for at half-rate for
the future. Lest this should seem too rough on
prolific parents, however, it has been thought ad-
visable that a month’s notice should be given of
the date when the new rule will be brought into
operation. Here’s where the laugh comes in, how-
ever. Printed instructions to enforce this charge
were issued to the ticket-collectors three months
ago; but as most of the married guards had young-
sters themselves (and the unmarried hoped to have
at some future date), good nature proved too
strong for discipline, and a seatful of tow-hcade ,
taffy-punishing urchins were passed along under
the sheltering icgis of mamma’s “ tuppenny
ticket.
* * *
The antediluvian style our telegraphic
authorities have of repairing breaks and stretch
ing new wires along our streets was we
nigh being the cause of what might have bee
a serious accident on Friday last, when a ca
horse was lassoed round the nose by a “ main fi ne ’
and compelled to soiff the electrio current un
his owner skipped down and “tied him loose
again. Had the venerable crow-roost hero of
incident been a high-mettled carting' s horse,


“ How is it there’s to be no performance
to-night?” enquired he of Jones, the eminent tra-
gedian, who stood disconsolately at the theatre
door. “ Because there’d be no one to see us,”
mournfully answered Jones. “Why, I thought
you were doing good business. You've had a full
nouse every night.” “ Yts, so we have,” answered
Jones; “but, unfortunately, to-night we haven’t
got money enough to buy paper to print the
orders on.”
one of our cerulean-blooded swells might have
toddled home with a cracked neck, and twelve
good men and true would have had to sit
on his head for half a day in order to fabri-
cate a verdict to the effect that the party
underneath came to his death from injuries acci-
dently received; no blame being attached to any-
one, of course. Apropos of this, some saw-dust-
brained Solomon on the Echo sapiently says: “Is
it not a reasonable suggestion that while the wires
are kept ’suspended in mid-air all alterations and
repairs should be effected between the midnight
and the dawn.” Of course it is. And, therefore,
when a break again occurs on the Sydney-Mel-
bourne line at 9 on a Friday morn, the officials will
do well to take the Echo messer’s advice, and let
the business rip until Saturday morning’s dawn.
All that Hunter-street madman wants i- a porce-
lain insulator stuck on his head and an expendi-
ture of £55,000 over his year’s receipts to be a
whole Telegraph Department In himself.
BRIEF MENTION.
A cover-t appeal: The new Distress.
Is Ash-Wednesday one of the Ember-days ?
If not, why not ?
What is the Latin equivalent for a hearse ?
Why, mors omnibus.
Our Senior Wranglers: The members of
the Legislative Council.
Appropriate notice outside the Horse
Guards next war time: “Estimates for general
repairs.
The Cooktown Independent, we observe,
has just completed its first quarter, and announces
its intention to give the Herald none -which is
oruel.
A Hupper Servant.
STABLE-BOY: “HERE’S THE MISSUS BEEN A INTERFERIN’ AGAIN. WANTED TO KNOW WHY I PUT A CURB ON THE NEAR ’OSS.”
JIMMY COACHMAN: “THE MISSUS BE BLOWED! ’ANG ’ER HIMPIDENCE, I SAYS. I WON’T ’AYE MY ’OSSES OR MY GROOMS INTERFERED WITH.”
“I am willing to be purged of my sin, and
live a good life,” said one who had been giddy to
the matron of a Sydney refuge. “ Can you wash ?”
was the immediate rejoinder.
“Oh, yes; they served us with a writ of
£lOOO for libel,” said the country editor; “but I
don’t know," he went on, cheering up, “ I don’t
know that it matters much. W e had to put on an
extra 350.”
We understand that, in great alarm, His
Exoellency has directed that the utmost precau-
tions be taken to prevent the introduction into
Government House of chicken pox. The other is
only a small affair.
We read in a home paper that a man and
wife appeared in Court " who had lived together
for 37 years very unhappily.” The only inference
to be drawn from this is that they must both have
worn list slippers, and stirred the copper fire with
a German sausage.
It is rumoured that at Randwiek, recently,
a gentleman offered a ticket for the Parkes ban-
quet, a photo, of Beaoh, a year’s subscription to
the bnROUD, and a press pass for the circus for a
free ticket in a five-bob sweep.
An ancient Cudgegonger writes that the
early settlers of the town of Mudgree were an
honest type of people. Without special revelation
one would never have guessed as much: such a
complete change has Time in his passage effected
The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals has made itself ridiculous by awarding
to a man a grant of half-a-crown for exemplary
kindness to his donkey. Why not, it is now sug-
gested, start an Order of Merit for Conspicuously
Good Treatment of Donkeys ?
From Alfred: —“Yesterday afternoon,
when crossing on a North Shore ferryboat, a
gentleman was so deeply engrossed in his Evening
News that he found himself carried back to his
starting point, Circular Quay.” Oh, yes; weknow
ail about that. Five, or .until the rising
“Naturalist subjects,” says Ale, “are
being developed in the Town and Country
Journal each week, in a manner never done
before in Australia.” This comes of neglecting
proper sanitary arrangements. Mercurial oint-
ment, and—but the office should be quarantined.
The Wollongong Argus announces its
need of a smart intelligent lad for the printing
business. The need is great, and tve sincerely
trust that the lad will be found. We shall be on
the look-out for the reforms that his engagement
will effect if the least scope be granted to his in- !
telligenee.
It seems that it is necessary to arrest all j
the free citizens of a Russian city when the Holy
Czar pays it a visit. One would think it would be {
a precious sight cheaper to arrest the Czar. It I
would kinder come queer to us if the police were
to run in all the sober folk lest they should cause
inconvenience to a drunk.
It is reported that when Archbishop
Moran saw the Distress in its new guise, be im-
mediately requested Mr. J. G. O’Connor to be
pointed out to him. His Grace then gazed on J.
G with much curiosity; and, turning to Quirk the
Placid, he said: "Let him stand a little further
away. He does not iook dangerous—but you never
know.”
We learn that “ the Queen has presented a
copy of her work. * More Leaves from the Journal
of our Life in the Highlands,’ to St. Mary’s hospital,
for the benefit of the patients.”—
’Twill close, we’re sure, this book galore
Full many a weary “ e’e ’’—and more;
And those who read it when in pain,
Won't want to clutch at life again!
Says the Auckland Observer “ Who
was the giver of the silk handkerchief? Suspi-
cious, Lena.”—
It was the groom, dull editor,
(Though we don’t wish to be a giber,)
"Who gave it to the kitchen-maid—
“ Another and esteemed subscriber.”
A party has been going about expecting
to acquire wealth by representing himself as Mr.
K. a. Withers, the gentleman who accepted a
cigar so gracefully on board the steamer, and sub-
sequently weDt round the world especially for
Alfred in 1883. All, however, the prisoner seems
to have got out of it at present is a land-sale
ticket, which was no good, and a Bible which he
sold (apparently) to a lady of doubtful ante-
cedents. Mr. O’Donnel has come to grief through
believing in the greatness of a name. If he’d
travelled on the Garden-Honey ticket, now, at
least his name would have been good, up the line,
for a basket of oranges.


Mb. DeCottbcy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining- Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, «sr Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that a Quarterly
Meeting ot the Metropolitan Licensing- Court
will be holden at the Central Police Office, York-
street, Sydney, on TUESDAY, the 14th day of
October next, at noon, for the purpose of consider-
ing applications for Publicans and Colonial Wine
Licenses, and for the transaction of any other
business that may be legally brought before the
said court.
C. DELOHERY, C.P.S.
Central Police Office,
Sydney, 22nd September, 1884.
C. COWLES,
GrUNMAKEH & IMPORTER
w.ft.eiSc.aTTi*
ZZlilZlLLt.
Bole Agent foT _ ,
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNB.
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
THIRD EDITION NOW READY.
Much Improved.
Maid, wife, and mother,
A Medical Book for Womankind. “ Worth
its weight in gold.” Post free, in secure cover, Is.
6d. N.S.W. stamps. To be had only of the Pub-
lisher, Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box 140, G.P.0., Sydney.
HOW TO LOOK YOUNG and HANDSOME,
and to Live One Hundred Years; applicable
to both Sexes. A really wonderful book. Post
Free, Is.; intercolonial, is. 2d. To be had only of
the Publisher, Mrs. BEARCROFT, Box 740, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
LADIES sending for Mrs. Bearcroft’s Books,
will receive free a Photo, of the Publisher.
DE
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stpps instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
turns, decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
rops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 339 Oxford-street, London."
ROXBOROM RILL,
THE PROPERTF OF
E. J. WEHLOW,
In consequence of his approaching departure for Europe, Mr. E.
J. Wehlow has decided to plaoe his magnificent estate at Baulkam
Hills, know as Roxborough Hall, in the market. It is now adver-
tised for sale by
W. A. BRODIE, AUCTIONEER, PARRAMATTA.
The property, which comprises an area of about 200 acres of the
richest soil, is one of the snuggest and most desirably situated in the
country, and is acknowledged to be admirably adapted to
ORANGE AND FRUIT GROWING.
It is located about four and a half miles from Parramatta, lias
frontages to both the Castle Hill and Baulkham Hills roads, and is
substantially enclosed. From the commanding eminences ol tne
Estate
CHARMING VIEWS
are te be obtained of the far-famed
BLUE MOUNTAINS,
The City, Suburbs, Parramatta, and surrounding districts. About
seventy acres are cropped with oranges, lemons, summer fruit, oats,
barley, lucerne, turnips, peas, beans, etc., all of which flourish most
luxuriantly in the fertile soil of the locality. The residence is a
handsome and commodious building, is very healthily situated, and
contains fifteen lofty and well-ventilated rooms. The out-buildings
are very complete, and include stables, coachhouse, conservatory,
aviary, fernery, labourers’ cottages, dairy, stock-yard, piggery,
fowl-nouses, and yard, etc. The laundry and other appliances are
ample for all requirements, an abundance of pure water is stored in
underground and other tanks, and, in addition to large tanks and
dams distributed throughout the estate, .-a never-failing creek runs
right through the property. The grounds .surrounding the proprie-
tor’s house are very prettily laid out witli plants, flowers, and evei-
greens of the choicest kinds, the drives being planted with hand-
some pine, oak, laurel, chestnut, Moreton Bay fig, and other trees.
The estate is one of the most desirable in the country, and the lucky
purchaser of it could live surrounded by ease and luxury, and, at
the same time, realise a handsome fortune from the produce of the
soil.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS, APPLY TO
W. A. BRODIE,
■A.ta.eta.oaa.eer,
PARRAMATTA.
-imt
■%
r.
m
!!
i
It
s
ns
KEY TO THE ORTON-CRESWELL PORTRAITS.
(See page 17.)
The committee appointed to inquire into
the iniquities of the London “City Livery Com-
panies ’* has disclosed the sickening fact that
£lOO,OOO a year is spent in “entertainments” by
these bloated Guilds, as they are called. A small
clique of gourmands (for the Liverymen chiefly
confine their hospitalities among their own pre-
cious selves) literally swallow up £350 every work-
ing day in banquets, within hearing of the “ Bitter
Cry of Outcast London:” and this, mind you, is
the surplus compound interest of mosey originally
bequeathed for charitable purposes and the ad-
vancement of trade. —
Poor starving wretches sink and die,
And Outcast London’s Bitter Cry
Throughout the world resounds.
Yet, year on year, these gluttons meet
In City Halls, to driDk and eat
One hundred thousand pounds.
At the very top of the huge building
known as the new General Post Office in St. Mar-
tin’s-le-Grand, is the,Central Telegraph Office of
London. It is worth a word or two. There are
636 sets of telegraph apparatus in that one room.
In one year 14% millions of telegrams passed
through it. The same year, 89 millions of words
were sent in “ press ” messages only. On the nights
of important parliamentary debates, it is not un-
usual for half a million of words to be sent,
sufficient to fill 250 newspaper columns. Such an
event as the University boat-race, or the Derby, is
known all over the United Kingdom three minutes
after the judge’s decision. The total staff of clerks
in the office is 1700; the most at work at one time
is about 1000; the fewest, about7o-thatis, between
3 a.m. and 7 a.m. Of machines, there are 190
duplex, 54 Wheatstone automatic, 12 quadruplex,
148 single needle, 244 single Morse, &c. All manu-
script messages from the House of Commons, three
miles are sent to the office through pneu-
matic tubes.
With a go-ahead spirit which stands out
gloriously by the side of our own dull, pottering,
five-thousand-years-behind-the-time policy, the
Victorian telegraph authorities have reduced
their charges to a penny a word, and foreigners
are allowed to correspond in their own language.
And as a sample of what a cheerful picnic the
lightning dodgers will have over there in future,
we may mention that the German word “ Staats-
schuldenzahlungscassebuchhalter ” consists of 37
letters, and means “Accountant of the bureau
where the State debts are paid,” and as German
etiquette demands that everyone should be ad-
dressed by his full title, we can easily imagine with
what 40 horse-power fervour the key-puncher will
bless the Teuton who hands in a six word “wire,”
containing 222 letters, and topped by anj address
(which goes free) consisting of 13 words of 48
letters each, and rounded off by a signature as
long as a bullock-driver’s whip, and a hundred
times more kinky. However, it is greatly to the
credit of the Victorian authorities, to find they
are willing to sacrifice their own comfort for the
convenience and benefit of the public.
A Melbourne gentleman and a Wesleyan
has been tearing his lank locks because the Wes-
leyan Church, Yarraville, was engaged by some-
one for the purpose of delivering an election
address—from the pulpit, presumably. Says this
good man: “ I hold that it is always unwise to let
buildings that have been dedicated to the service
of God for any secular purposes.” Exactly, and
that’s just the reason we object to some of the
giddy goings-on in the vestries—not that it’s any
use objecting, because parsons will have their
little larks the same as other people, if not more
so. And, alas, for the Wesleyan gentlemen! If no
building dedicated to the service of God were ever
attended for secular purposes, what poor houses
the parsons would have to play to—especially on
Sunday evenings.—
At many a church and at many a chapel
Much secular work goes on, don’t you know ?
The schoolboy drops in to dispose of an apple,
The maiden goes there to make eyes at her beaux;
The merchant reflects on his “lines” for the mor--
row,
As he piously sits in the family pew :
Yes, we oftentimes think, to our infinite sorrow,
That worshippers are most uncommonly few.
The latest thing in bicycles is called the
“Kangaroo Safety Bioycle.” The “Kangaroo,”
of which the following is an illustration, has
only a three-foot wheel, the head is open, and
a circular tube descends on each side of the wheel
from the handle bar to the bearings of the crank
and chain wheel. The short arms carrying the
bearings of the front wheel are strongly clamped
on to the tubular forks, which, from these points
downwafds, are double —one tube within another
—to give greater strength. Thus, while the axle
of the front wheel is some 2)4 inches in front of
the fork, the p< dais are kept fairly well under the
rider. On each side of the driving wheel is a
toothed flange—part of the hub, in fact—carrying
seven teeth. A chain passes over each of these
flanges, and also over the wheel attached to each
pedal crank, this wheel being furnished with twelve
teeth. These chains have, of course, no connec-
tion with each other, except through the drivipg
wheel, and the number of teeth on the lower chain
wheel compared with those on the hub give a
greatly accelerated movement to the driving
wheels relatively to the pedals; in the case of the
machine we have been trying the speeding up is
equal to a 63-inch wheel. The handle bar is 28
inches wide, and hollow, and the method of con-
nection with the bearings through the tubular
fork gives wonderful rigidity to the steering. The
rear wheel is 23 inches in diameter, and is covered
with a serviceable mud guard; a low step also de-
scends from the hind fork. The saddle is carried
on an Arab cradle spring, and a powerful spoon
brake, with a grip handle, is furnished to the front
wheel. A pair of comfortable foot-rests are also
provided, extending out in front of the axle on
either side of the wheel. The tread of the pedals is
no broader than in the ordinary bicycle, as the small
size of the wheel enables it to be built much nar-
rower than would be safe in a wheel of larger diame-
ter. The “ Kangaroo ” is a product of Messrs. Hill-
man, Herbert, and Cooper’s manufacturing works
at Coventry. Says a writer in the Field : *‘l have
ridden the * Kangaroo ’ about 300 miles, including
two rides of 104 and 100 miles, occupying 11% hours
and 11% hours respectively. I am confirmed in my
opinion that the machine is propelled as easily a
an ordinary bicycle, for, in spite of the high gear-
ing, favouring the attainment of great speed on
the level and down hill, I drove it up every hill
on the above-mentioned rides, which were, in one
case, from London to Birmingham by Dunstable
and Towcester, and, in the other, from Leicester
to London by Northampton, Bedford, and Hitchin,
and many of these hills are sufficiently severe to
claim serious attention from bicyclists, it is from
facts of this kind that I prefer to form an
opinion upon the merits or faults of bicycles
or tricycles. as J consider such facts to be the
only reliable means by which the qualities
and detects of these machines are discoverable.”
Th- objection to the small wheel hitherto has been
that the writer had to pedal painfully fast to ob-
tain an average speed, and that the rider’s legs
were too cram ued to exert their lull power. W ith
the “ Kangaroo,” however, these drawbacks are
reduced, as the treadles are lowered to give the
rider a straight leg in driving and are brought
back enough to allow of a fair vertical tread. The
safety ” consists in the small wheel, in order that
the rider be near the ground, and in the centre of
the s«ddle being ten or twelve inches behind a per-
pendicular line passed through the axle, so that in
the event of the machine striking an obstruction
there is very little danger of the rider shooting
forward.
WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,
friends are generous and affectionate ; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others ; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
I was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, I
used it myself, the result being that I was myself
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you are at liberty to make
w hat use you please of this.
Tours,
John Kelly.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney.


Bargains in Music.
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE.
Slightly Soiled and Surplus Music, which has
been separated from the seneral stock in order to
effect startling reductions.
FOR ONK MONTH ONLY.
Pieces from 2d. each. Orand opportunity for
laying in a stock of good music, at low piices.
Notice to the Public.—'! he newest aRd
choicest music received every mail. Orders sup-
plied to all parts of the colony on receipt of P.O.
orders or postage stamps. Postage 2d. extra each
piece. Choirs and Societies supplied with Anthems,
Glees, and every kind of part music. Brass, Reed,
and String Band Music always on hand.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEOEGE-STREET.
Huenerbein’s Warehouses,
411 George-st., and 178 Pftt-st.
Pianos Cost Price for 1 month only,
Prior to REMOVING TO NEW PREMISES.
HEeT* Cost Price! Cost Price! Cost Price.
RARE OPPORTUNITY JUST NOW !
Huenerbein’s Warehouses.
limiEL E3TIL
BRISBANE STREET,
Launceston.
THIS centrally-situated Hotel, having under-
gone considerable alterations nnd lmprove-
ment?, now offers every comfort and convenience
to visitors and commercial gentlemen.
The Hotel is now under the management of
HRS. PYLE,
late of the ORIENTAL HOTEL, Collins-street
East; REAOuNSFIELD HOT E L, St. Ki Ida ; and
Waverley House, Collins-place, Melbourne.
USE NOTHING BUT
STANDARD MIXED PAINT.
HAS NO DIRT NOR HARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory : CIWPES WHARP, »YD SET.
See Evening News advt.
W
Office.
Aa'J'E 1-APEU Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publianer, Bulletin
General Post Office,
Sydney, Ist September, 1884.
CONVEYANCE being required for the Post
Ollice Mails, either by COACH or on HORSE-
BACK, to and from the undermentioned places,
for one year (Ist January, 1885, to the 31st Decem-
ber, 1885). or for three years (Ist January, 1885, to
the 31st. December, 1887), (with the exception of
those lines for which a special term is named)—
persons willing to Contract for the same are in-
vited to transmit tenders in the approved form
before noon, on Tuesday, the 31st day of October
next.
Tenders must be addressed to ithe Secretary to
the Post Ollice, Sydney, and endorsed, “Tender
for Conveyance of Mails.”
For full particulars, see Government Gazette.
Western Roads.
1. Parramatta Railway Station and Post Offices*
Parramatta, Baulkham Hills, and Rouse
Hill, six times a week.
3. From Blacktown to Prospect and Prospect
Reservoir, via Boothtown, returning via
Veteran Hall, six times a week.
3. Wicdsor and Freeman’s Reach, six times a
week.
4. Wiseman’s Ferry and Mangrove Creek, once a
week.
5. Lower Hawkesbury and Gentleman’s Halt,
once a week.
0. Upper Colo, Putty, and Howe’s Valley, once a
week.
7. Penrith, Mulgoa, and Luddenham, via Main
Road, six times a week.
8. Hartley and Lowther, twice a week.
9. Ben BulleD, Railway Station, and Cullen Bullen,
twice a week.
10. Capertee Railway Station and Post Office, six
or more times a week.
11. Capertee, Glen Alice, and Rylstone, via Gal-
lagher’s, Coco, the Crown, and Bogie, twice
a week.
13. Ilford, Waverley Station, Crudine, and Sofala,
twice a week.
13. Rylstone and Bylong, twice a week.
14. Mudgee, Eurunderee, Home Rule, and Gul-
gong, seven times a week.
15. Home Rule and Canadian Lead, six times a
week.
16. Gulgong, Lahey's Creek, and Cobbora, via
Goodaman’s, twice a week.
17. Cobbora, Merrygoen, Mundoorah, and Gilgan-
dra, twiC9 a week.
18. Mundooran and Baradine, via Bundella, Yarra-
gren, Rearbong, Bidden, Youlbong, Tun-
derbrine, Gumin «umin, Tenandra, Panta,
AVindgadgen, and Goorianawa, twice a
week.
19. Oberon, Gingkin, add Shooter’s Hill, twice a
week.
20. Railway Station, Kelso, and Post Office, Kelso,
twelve or more times a week.
21. Bathurst, Peel, Wyagdon. Wattla Flat, and
Sofala, six times a week.
22. Bathurst and White Rock, six times a week.
33. Peel, Duramana, and Millamurra, twice a week.
21. Hill End and Tambaroora, six times a week.
25. Rockley. Swallow's Nest, and Burraga via
Sewell's and Warby’s Eagle Vale, three
times a week.
26. Railway Station, Newbridge, and Post Office,
Caloo'a, three times a week.
27. Blayney. Norton, Shaw, and Mount Macquarie,
via Five Islands, three times a week.
28. Carcoar, Mandurama, Lyndhurst Milburn
Creek, and Mount M'Donald, three times a
week.
29. Sheet of Bark and Canowindra, via “The
Islands,” three times a week.
30. Sheet of Bark. Wangoola (Wood’s Flat), Mil-
burn Creek, and Mount M'Donald, three
times a week.
31. Mount M'Donald and Darby’s Falls, twice a
week.
33. Millthorpe Railway Station and Post Offices,
Guyong and Byng, three times a week.
33. Railway Station and Post Office, Orange, twice
or oftener daily.
34. Orange and Lucknow, six times a week.
35. Orange, German’s Hill, Cave Creek, Cargo,
Canowindra. and Cowra, viaßelmore, three
times a week.
33. From Orange to Ophir, via Lewis Ponds, re-
turning by direct road, twice a week.
37. Orange, Springside, Cadia, and Carcoar, via
Burnt Yards, once a week.
38. Orange and March, twice a week.
39. Orange and Canoblas, twice a week.
40. Forbes, Bogan Gate, and Dandaloo, via Blow-
clear, Gunning Bland, The Troughs, Gobon-
dry, Burra Burra, Mumble Plains Block H.,
Woodlands Homestead, and Albert Water-
holes, once a week.
41. Condobolin, Cugong, and Eauabalong, along
the north side of the Lachlan River, twice
a week.
42. Eauabalong and Nymagee, via Welsh’s Dine
Dine, Eremeran, Nangribone, Conley’s
Overflows, Babinda, and Rosett’s, once a
week. (Tenderers to soecify a price for
the conveyance of an ehtra mail a week,
if required.)
43. Nymagee and Cobar, via Rock Hol°sand Lime-
kilns, once a week.
44. Molong, Boomey, and Warne, three times a
week. (Tenderers to specify a price for a
coach as well as for a horseback service.)
45. Molong and Cundumbul, twice a week.
46. Parkes and Bulgandramine, via Ginnaniguy
and Coradgery, twice a week.
47. Oblev, Ten-mile Reefs, Bulgandramine, and
Dandaloo, twice a week; mails to be con-
veyed once a week via Wanda Wondong,
and once a week via Graham’s, Dillederry.
48. Dandaloo, Nyngan, and Cannonbar, twice a
week.
49. Wellington, Ponto, Terra Bella, and Dubbo,
via Willandra Bridge, twice a week.
50. AVollington, Yeoval, Mount Aubery, and
Parkes, twice a week.
51. Lincoln and Alma (Woolaman), once a week.
52. Merrygoen, Binnaway, and CooDabarabran, via
Caigan, Sunnyside, Popagandra, and Rivers-
dale, twice a week.
53. Coonabarabran and Tambar Springs, via
Bradley's, at Baby Creek, Clay Holes, and
Saltwater Creek, once a week.
54. Railway Station and Post Office, Dubbo, twice
, or oftener daily.
65. Dubbo and Obley, via The Meadows, The
springs, and Wambangalang. twice a week.
56. Dubbo, Beni, Murruugundy, and Cobbora,
twice a week.
57. Gilgandra, and Collie, twice a week ; and
Collie, and Tenandra via Merrigal, Bundella,
and Wonbobbie, once a week.
58. Gilgandra and Collie, via Peter Smith’s, John
Marchant 8, E. Maher's, Henry Hall’s, A.
M’Kechnie’s, Jas. Markey’s, Bennington’s,
Roke’s, Myall Park, Bullagreen, and New
Merrigal, one'* a week.
59. Gulargambone, Quambone, and Carinda, via
M'Quade ana Flynn’s Stations, twice a
week.
*•0. Trangi and Dandaloo, twice a week,
el. WarreD, Tenandra, and Quambone, once a
week, for one year only.
52. Tenandra ahd Quambone, once a week, for one
year only.
50. Warren, Tenandra, and Coonamble, via Bour-
bah (DoDohoe’s), on the Merri, Mem, and
M’Mahoa’s, on the west bank of the Castle-
reagh River, once a week.
54. Railway Station, Nyngan, and Post Offices Nyn-
gan and Hermitage Plains, once a week;
and Hermitage Plains and Nymagee, three
times a week.
s>. AVanaarmg Post Office and Delalah Downs
Head Station, via Urisino, Rlsinora, and
Thurloo Downs, once a week.
Southern Roads.
1. Liverpool, Denham Court (on return by Kemp’s
0 Creek), and bringelly, six times a week.
“• Aarellan and Cobbitty, six times a week.
6. Camden and Browulow Hill, six times a week.
*■ Brownlow Hill and Werombi, three times a
. week. ✓
a un(l Clifton, six times a week.
5. Wollongong and Mount Keira, six times a
_ week.
“ Albion Park and Jamberoo, three times a week.
Oaks and Burragorang, three times a week.
*• Burragorang and Upper Burragorang, twice a
wees.
10. Railway Station and Post Office, Moss Vale,
fifteen times or oftener a week, including
the clearance of tbe letter receiver at the
Railway Station once a day.
11. Post Offices, Moss Vale and Berrima, twelve
times a week.
15. Moss Vale and Sutton Forest, seven times a
week; ana from Moss Vale to Sutton For-
est on arrival of the morning l train from
Sydney, six times a week.
13. Moss Val°, JBurrawang, Robertson, Jamberoo,
and Kiama, six times a week.
If. Moss Vale, Yurrunga, Barrengarry, Kangaroo
Va'ley, Cambewarra, and Nowra, six times
p. week.
15. Berrima and Joadja Creek, twice a week.
16. Nowra, Terara, and Numba, via Green Hills,
six times a weea.
17. Burner and Valwal, twice a week.
18. Mogo and Tomakin, once a week.
1!». Marulan and Bungonia, seven times a week.
50. Marulan, Long Reach, and Big Hill, three times
a week.
21. Bungonia and Windellama, twice a week.
22. Gonlbnrn, Mummell, Woore. Gulleu, and
Wheeo (including the conveyance of letters,
&c., to and from the Wheeo Post Office,
Selmes’ Receiving Office, and the Wesleyan
Chapel at Wheeo), three times a week. "(In
times of flood, Contractor to travel direct
between Mummell and Gullen and to convey
a branch mail to and from Corbet's, near
the new bridge over the Wollondilly, and
Woore, three rimes a week).
23. Goulburn and Currawang, three times a week.
24. Line withdrawn.
25. Goulburn or Currawang Railway Platform, as
required, and Inveralochy, six times a
week.
26. Taralga and Bannaby, twice a week.
27. Tarago, Bungendore and Queanbeyan, six times
a week.
38. Boro and Mulloon, three times a week.
29. Boro and Mayfield, twice a week.
30. Bungendore, and Foxlow, three
31. Williamsdale Receiving Office, and Mr. John
M'Pherson's Old Burra Station, twice a
week.
32. Cooma and Bobundarah, once a week; and to
and from Cooma aud Bobundarah, via My-
alia, once a week,
33. Gegedzerick and Jindabyne, twice a week.
34. Gegedzerick and Rocky Plain, once a week.
35. Bombala, Cathcart, Candelo, Wolumla, and
Merimbnla, once a week.
36. Bombala and Tombong, via Bombala Station,
Cambalong, and Quiiong, once a week.
37. Delegate and oorrowong, three times a week.
38. Candelo, MeriDglo, and Brown Maintain, via
Benbooka station, once a week.
39. Candelo, Tantawanglo, Mogilla, and Brown
Mountain, once a week.
40. Candelo and Mogilla, once week.
41. Candelo and Windham, via Myrtle Creek, once
a week
42. Adaminaby and Rosedale, twice a week.
43. Braid wood, tharleyong, Tomboy, Xserriga,
Sassafras, and Nowra, once a week.
44. Braidwood and Little Bombay, once a week.
45. Major’s Creek and Ballalaba, twice a week.
46. Moruya ana Kiora, twice a week.
47- Eurobodalla and Nerrigundah, twice a week.
48. Bega and Candelo, six times a week.
49. Bega and Tanja, once a week.
50. Merimbula W harf and Post Offices, Merimbula
and Pambula, once a week.
51. Meiimbula and Candelo, on arrival of steamer
at Merimbula.
52. Breadalbane and Gnrrundab, once a week.
63. Railway Station, Gunning, and Post Office,
Gunning, onco or cltener daily.
54. Gunning anu Wheeo, once a week; and to and
from Dalton and Wheeo, once a week.
55. Da'ton and Rye Park, once a week.
56. Rye Park and Burrowa, twice a week.
57. Yass and Good Hope, via Spring Creek, twice a
week.
58. Murrumbateman and Nanama, twice a week.
59. Burrowa and Frogmoor, twice a week : and to
and from Frogmoor and Reid s Flat, via
Hovell's Creek and Phil’s Creek, once a
week.
60. Railway Platform, Murrumburrah, and Post
Offices, Murrumburrah, Wombat, Young,
Weddin, and Grenfell, seven times a week
61. Murrumburrah and narwang, three times a
week.
62. Young, Thuddungra, MoraDgarell, and Mars-
den s, via Balabala, twice a week
63. Young, Grogan, West Temora (The Rock), and
Ternora, via Milong, three times a week.
61. Grenfell and Forbes, six times a week.
65. Grenfell and Brundah Greek, twice a week.
66. Marden’s and Wollongougu, via Tallebong
twice a week.
67. Morangarell and Barmedman, via Tarangalay
once a week.
68. Wallendbeen and Cullinga, twice a week.
69. Cootamundra, Kilrush, and Jugiong, via The
Grove, CuliiugaCreek, Grovcseud, Temple-
more, Oowong, KyroD, Rathren, Jereleam-
by, and Sandy Creek, once a week.
70. Cootamundra, Cowan’s, ana Temora, via Com-
oaning, seven times a week.
71. From Cootamundra to West Temora, via
Dacey’s, Geraldra, Grogan, Corumbie, and
Narraburra, Stations, returning to Coota-
munara, vix. North Gundibindyat, Woons-
town, Gundibindyal, and Stocainbingal,
twice a week.
72. Clarendon and Wagga Wagga, via Oura and
Eunonyoareenyha, twice a week.
73. Tumut, Blowering, and Kianura, once a week.
74. Toorna and Khaucoban, via Opossum Point,
once a week.
75. Wagga Wagga and Brucedale, twice a week.
76. Wagga Waggt and Mangopla, three times a
week.
77. Wagga Wagga, Yarragundry, aEd Collingullie,
tnree times a week.
78. Wagga Wagga and Pullitop Station, via Lake
.AiDert, Gregado, Big springs, aud Living-
stone, three times a week.
79. From Uley to Warri, Bygoo, Bolera, and Yal-
gogrin Stations, returning to Uley, once a
week.
80. Urana, Goonambil, Daysdale, Lowesdale, and
Corowa, twice a week; and to and from
Jereelderie and Daysdale, once a week.
81. Urana i.ud Mr. Guest’s Selection, 3 miles be-
yond Boree Creek, encea week.
82. Albury, Bight’s Forest, Burrumbuttock, Wal-
bundrie, and Mahonga, three times a week;
aL d to and from Mahonga and Urana, once
a week.
83. Howlong, Moorwatha, and Goombargona, via
the “ Brocklesby Hotel!” twice a week.
84. Old Junee and The Reefs, twice a week; and to
and from The Reefs and Sebastopol, via
Wholahan’s Creek and Erinvaie, once a
week.
85. Darlington Ha ! lway Sta'ion and Darlington
Point Post Office, near the river, seven
times a week.
88. Carrathool, Guubar, aud Hillston, once a week.
87. Deniliquin, Cochran Creek, and Noorong, via
Cobran and North W akool, once a week.
89. Wilcannia, Wanaaring, and Hungerford, once a
weak.
Northern Roads.
1. St. Leonard's and Buena Vista, once a day.
2. St. Leonard’s, Naremburn, aud North Willough-
by, six times a week; aud St. Leonard s and
North Willoughby, six times a week.
3. St. Leonard's, Gore Hill, Cnatswood, Gordon,
and Hornsby, six times a week.
4. Manly and Barreujoey, via Newport, twice a
5. Gosford, Davis Town (Cockle Creek), and Kin-
cumber, three times a week.
6. Gosford, Blue Gum Flat, Wyong Creek, and
Cooranbong, twice a week.
7. Wyong Creek Post Office and Yarramalong,
once a week.
8. C roranboDg and Wallsend, three times a week.
9 Wallsend aud Minmi, six times a week.
10. Htxham Railway Siatiou and Raymond Ter
race, seven times a and Ravmond
Terrace, Limeburuer s Creek, Booral,
Slr.jud, Telegh rry, cangwortny’s, Waul s
River, and Gloucester, tix times a week.
11. Raymond Terrace and Miller s Forest, six times
a week.
12. Limeburner’s Creek, Aliceton, Tea Garden's,
and Hawke s Nest, via Covey Creek, once
or twice a week. ’ i
13. Hawke’s Nest and Nelson’s Bay, twice a week.
14. Gloucester, Barrington, and Copeland North,
six times a week.
15. G loucester, Larry’s Flat, Tinonce, and Taree,
six times a week.
10. Gloucester, Nowendoc, Orundumbi, and Wal-
cha, once a week.
17. Manning River Steamers and Post Offices. Taree
and VVingnam, ana Taree and iinouee, as
required.
18. Tinonee and Kimbriki, via Martin's, Latimer’s,
Monk’s, Chapman’s, Moore's, Murray’s,
Weatherley s, Mossman’s, and fcmith's,
twice a week.
19. Wingham, KiUawarra, and Woodsido (Upper
Manning), three times a week.
20. Woodside, Knorrit Flat, and Nowendoc, via
Cooplacurripa, once a week.
21. Summer Island, Pelican Is and, and Rainbow
Reach, twice a week.
22. Nambucca and Bowraville, three times a week.
23. Boat Harbour and Never Never, once a week.
24. Last Maitland, Largs, and Paterson, travelling
via Belmore Bridge in limes of Hood; with
a branch mail to and from Largs and Wood-
vilie, seven times a week.
25. East Maitland, Buchanan, anil Mount Vincent,
three times a week.
26. Paterson, Vacy, Trevallyn, and Gresford, six
times a week.
27. Paterson, Wallarobba, and Dungog, three times
a week.
28. Creator d and Lostock, three times a week.
29. From Morpeth to Hinton, lourteen times a
week; and from Hinton to Morpeth, seven
times a week.
30. Seabam and Eagleton, three times a week.
31. Dungog, Bendolba, and Bandon Grove, three
times a week.
32. Bendolba and Underbank, three times a week.
33. Railway Station, High-street, and Post Office,
West Maitland, six or more tunes a day,;as
required.
34. West Maitland, Bishop's Bridge, Cessnock, Mill-
field, and Woliombi, witn a branch mail to
and from Cessnock and Rilalong - , three
times a week.
35. Whittingham, Vere, and Broke, six times a
36. Singleton, Scott’s Flat, Sedgefleld, Westbrook,
undGlendou Brook, twice a week.
37. Singleton, Briugeuian, and St. Ciair, twice a
week.
38. Singleton and Rlx’a Creek, twice a week.
39. Tne Bulga aud Howe’s Valley, once a week.
40. BridgemaD and Goorangoola, twice a week.
41. Giennie’s Creeir aud Camberwell, six or more
times a week, as rtquired. (contractor to
convey the mails ariiving by ttie evening
train when the steamer arriv es too late at
Newcastle for them io be forwarded by the
mail train.)
42. Muswelibrook and Wybong, twice a week.
43. Muswelibrook and uunbar’s Creek, twice a
week.
41. Denman, Baerami, and Kerrabee. via Rose-
mount, Richmond Grove, and Beiimont,
three times a week
45. Merriwa and Wohar, via Kellick, once a week.
46. Cassilis, Old Turee, Couiah, and Binnaway,
twice a week
47. Cassilis, Uarbry, and Denison Town, via Lamb’s
O'Malley’s, and Piper's Hotel, twice a week.
48. Denison Town, Bolaro, and Cobbora, twice a
week.
49. Railway Station and Post Office, Scone, includ-
ing the clearance of the letter receiver at
the Bail way Station, twice or oftener daily.
50. Scone and Bunuan, twice a week.
51. Blandford and Timor (Silver Mines), once a
week.
52. Railway Station and Post Office, Quirindi,
twelve or more limes a week.
53. Quirindi, Castle Mountain, and Wallabadah, via
Quirindi Station and Main Road, six times
a week.
54. Gunnedah and Boggabri, via Ballyragan,
Sanders’s, Burburgate, Lander's, Gulligal,
Lye’s, Turner s Bose’s, Milcheugowrie, and
Bradly’s, once a week.
55. Gunnedah, Mullaley, Rocky Glen, and Coona-
barabran. via tne new Government Road,
three times a week.
56. Coonabarabrau, Baradine, and Pilliga, via
Yar-agan, Goran, Kianbri, Merriwee, Erin-
bri, Merebene, Wangan, and Etoo, once a
week.
57. Railway Station and Post Office, Boggabri,
twelve or more times a week.
58. Narrabri, Millie, Bumble, and Moree, four or
six times a week
59. Narrabri aud Cryau, via Clay’s, Gundamaine,
Cobcroft’s, Barker’s, Hardy’s, Holland’s,
Wrightman’s, Shanahan Walls, Powers,
Wyatt, Bacon, Mitchell, Pallett, Toola-
dunnab, Boolearroll, .1. Clark s, The Wood-
lands, Belarbo, Nowley, Moore’s, Burren,
Old Burren, Gaiara, aud Uorian (Capel's),
twice a week
60. Shanahan’s (on the Narrabri and Cryan mail
line). Pian Creek, and Pilliga, via Now-
land’s, Holcombe’s, Thompson’s, Bo i 800,
Pine Grove, Knight’s, Russell's, Bennett’s,
Powell's, Dempsey’s, Murphy’s, and Buckle-
bone, once a week.
61. Walgettand Goodooga, once a week.
62. Walgett, Coilarenebri, Mogil MogU, and Mugin-
di, via Euria Eurie, Manilla (Mercadool
Homestead;, Broomfield's, Buudabaruna,
Braisen's, taidinurra, ana Wiit«, twice a
week, for one year only. (Contractor to
travel via Barriugton if required.)
63. Moree and Meroe, via Com badeilo, t wice a week •
and to and from Meroe, Burrendoon, and
Mogil Mogil, via MyaubJar and Collymon-
gle, once a week.
64. Tamworth, Dungowan, Bowling Alley Point,
and Nundlc, via Mills s, Wuoloomon, lour
times a week; and NundJe, Mount Pleas-
ant, and Hanging Rock, three times a
week.
ft">. Somerton and Keepit, twice a week.
66. Bingera and Upper Bingera, once a week.
67. Warialda, Wailangra, Yetman, Boggabilla, and
Gooudiwmdi iQu via Gournaisa
twice a week.
68. Walohußoad and Walcha, twelve limes a week
69. Railway Station, Mooubi, and Post Offices'
Moonbl and Bendemeer, three times a
70. Kentucky Rail way Platform and Carlisle Gully,
via Kentucky Station, twice a week.
71. Uralla, Salisbury Plains Station, and Salisbury
Plains Receiving Office, twice a week.
72. Bundarra and Barraba, once .•* week.
73. Tingha and Stannifer, three times a week.
74. Line withdrawn.—See Supplementary Notice.
75. Armidale and Puddledook, once a week
76. Glen Innes, Severn, Y Water, and Emmaville,
three times a week. (Contract to terminate
on the opening of the Railwuy to Deep-
water.)
77. Glen Innes and Red Range, twice a week.
(Contractor to travel by surveyed road if
required.)
78. Emmaville and Torington. once a week. (Con-
tract; to terminate on the opening of the
Railway to Deepwater.)
79. Borshaw, Sunnyside, and Tenterfleld, via Clif-
ton Station, Mole station, uud the south
side of the Severn ltiver, twice a week
80. Bonshaw, Texas (Queensland), and Yetman
once a week.
81. D'epwa*er anu Tent Hill, twice a week. (Con-
tract to terminate on the opening of the
Railway to Deepwater.)
82. Clarence River Steamers and Po3t Offices, Iluka
and CJarencn River Heads, as required, to
meet steamers that arrive aud depart, or
that pass up am down the river ; and
Post Offices, Huka aud Clarence River
Heads, twice a week.
83. Clarence River Steamers and Post Office, Har-
wood Island, as required, to meet steamers
that arrive and depart, or that pass up and
down ttie river.
84. Lawrence, Casino, and Lismore, twice a week.
85. Brush Grove and Xyndale, twice a week.
Bb. Grafton, South Graltou, Upper Kangaroo,
Creek, Bueoa liucca, Nana Creek, Wcol-
goolga, Coif s Harbour, and Feruinouut,
via Kar g iroo Creek Station, Mrs. Burns’
aud Uleureagh, twice a week.
87. Graiton and Southgate, twice a week.
88. South Grafton and Gerrymberryn, twice a
week.
S 9. Coraki, Codrington, Tatham, South Casino and
Casino, twice a week.
HO. Lismore, Dunoon, and Murwillumbab, once a
week.
91. Lismore and Tirrania, once a week, for one
year only.
9i. Lismore and Wollongbar, twice a week; and to
and from Wollongbar, Alstonvilie, and Bul-
Jina, once a week.
93. Murwillumbah and Tumbulgum, thieetimesa
„ week. s team launch, for two years oaly.
94. Ballina, Emigrant Creek, and Tintenbar, twice
a week; and to and from Tintenbar, Byron
Creek (Campbell's), and Brunswick, via
Hayter’s, Boyle’s, stock’s, Garvan's, Glia-
san’s, and Hutchinson's, once a week.
Jo. Ballina and Upper North Creek, once a week.
SUBURBAN Koads.
I 1. Circular Quay, Sydney, and Post Office, Wat-
son’s Bay, twelve times a week. (From
Sydney, hou;s of departure to suit Con-
tractor, but one or two return trips must
be made at hours fixed by the Postmaster-
General, who will also bo at liberty to tike
advantage of any additional trips made
from or to Watson’s Bay, if considered
necessary).
JAME3 NORTON.
General Post Office,
o , Sydney 18 .h .September, 18 5 4.
Supplement to General Advertisement, dated the
Ist September, 1884, calling for Tenders for
Mail Services, to commence on the Ist Janu-
ary, 1886.
TENDERS for the following Mail Service will
be received up to noon on Tuesday, the 21st
October next, viz:—
Southern Road.
89. Marulan and Bungonia, six times a week.
Northern Roads.
9(1. Railway Station and Post Office, Armidale,
twice or oftener daily, as required.
97. Millie, Now Oriel, and Mogil Mogil, via Bunna
Bunna. Munyga, Oriel, Btilcori, Colleytu-
dula, Merriwvnebone. Pockataroo, Colly-
mongle, and Werribiili, once a week, for
one year only; or
98. Millie, New Oriel, and Collarenebri, via Bunna
Bunna. Munyga, Oriel, Bulcorl, Colleytu-
dula, Merriwynebone, and Pockataroo, once
a week, for oDe year only.
99. Ulmarra and Upper Coldstream, twice a week.
The above services, Nos. 89, Southern Road,
and 96, Northern Road, are called for in
lieM of the servire No. 74, Northern Roads
advertised in the general advertisement dated
the Ist September, 1884, which has been with-
drawn.
The conditions will be the same as those pub-
lished in the Government Gazette in the general ’
advertisement, dated Ist September, 1884, and
Tenders will not be considered unites in accord-
ance therewith.
JAMES NORTON.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have thie index posted up bv
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general. 1
RACING.
Sydney Turf Club September 27.
Tamworth R.C Sept. 30, Oct. 2.
Camden and Campbelltown J.C Octobers.
Victoria Amateur T'.C October 11,18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,10.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C November 9.
Murrumburrah R.C November 10.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
Narandera T.C November 27, 28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 37,28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
Rosekill R.C December 27.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting. .' January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28, March 5, 7
AQUATIC.
N.S.R.C. Regatta September 27.
N.S.AF. Rowing Association Regatta.... Octooer 18.
Canvas Dingy Club Ist. class race October 18.
Matterson v. Kemp October 18.
Solomon v. Kemp October 18.
Double Bay Regatta November 1.
Hanlan v. Clifford Febuary 7.
Beach v. Clifford February 28.
ATHLETICS
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap.... September.
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
The further development of the Hanlan-
Beach imbroglio will be l'ound in another column.
In the first innings of the Canterbury matoh
Spofforth bowled eighteen overs, fifteen maidens,
three runs, and two wickets in an hour.
In a reoent college match, at Cambridge,
Mr. C. W. Hock, the Tasmanian, scored 203 out of
436, and took six wickets, in eight and a half overs,
for 0 runs.
J. Phizackerley rode well on Saturday last,
but the task set him in the Mile Maiden Handicap
was too great. May the gods forgive Phizackerley
senior, for propagating more of the name—for we
cannot.
A quoit match took place at Ned Punch’s
Captain Cook Hotel, Moore Park, on Saturday last,
between Baker and Pile, 61 up, clay ends, for a
'‘tenner” aside. Baker won by 61 to his oppo-
nent’s 49.
Efforts to bring about another set of
matches between George and Myers, the cham-
pion amateur runners of England and America
respectively, have failed, as each man only wants
to run at his own distance.
That was a fiendish statement made by
the Melbourne Sportsman— that Beach measured
18 and 16 inches respectively round the biceps and
forearm. We notice the New Zealand papers have
copied it in all seriousness.
Andy Dillon, our crack handball player,
slipped down stairs, the other day, and broke his
collar-bone. The accident happened most unop-
potunely, as Andy had in contemplation a trip to
Melbourne, to play in some big "matches.
England is all behind in trotting. In a
match at Manchester, for a trophy which virtually
carries with it the English championship, Nellie
Patchen trotted a mile and a half in 3min. 58sec.,
or at the rate of, say, 2min. 38J4sec. per mile.
.Tames W. Raby, the English champion,
offers to walk any man in the world from three
miles to twelve miles, for any sum up to ±-106 a
side. Now, then, Mr. Watson, the honour and glory
of Australia is at stake, and only a paltry hun-
dred this tlmel
During the three days of the match Eng-
land v. Australia at Lord’s in July, 35,501 passed
through the turnstiles. As each person paid bd.,
the takings at the gate amounted to £BB7 10s. bd.—
a very pleasant sum to console Billy aad “is merry
men for their defeat.
In England, the Philadelphian cricketers
played 18 matches (eight wins, five defeats, and
live draws). It was stated from the first that the
object of the trip was ‘‘purely educational.
When they want attnishin.g lesson they’ll probably
apply to Murdoch and Co.
Mr. Middleton is a bigger success on the
turf than on the briny. H<a completely swept the
board in the long-distance races on Saturday, and
by reason of his easy wins the races were robbed
of all interest. It seems strange the handieappers
were so poorly posted with the capabilities of the
men.
It is pretty well certain that W. G. George’s
11 miles 933 yards is the greatest well-authenticated
hour’s running feat. When Deerfoot did his al-
leged 11 miles 970 yards, each quarter-mile of the
running-track was shortened by some conspirators
to the extent of half-a-dozen yards- at least, so it
is stated.
What a pity the lolanthe was not large
enough to attempt the trip out with, and the
Mignonette small enough to pack away on a steam-
boat; or, to put it another way, that Mr. Want did
not purchaso the lolanthe, and Mr. Smith the
Mignonette. We uttor this wish in thoi interests ot
Port .Jackson yachting.
W. Raynor, of Salford, is stated 1 . to be the
coming English sprinter. At the Blaokiey Sports
he was credited with running 115)4 yards in 11)4
see., or half a yard better than evens. But out
here, whero allegod evens are as plentiful as
blackberries, the performance will no doubt be
considered nothing out of the common.
The Australasian is responsible for the
statement that the billiardlst. H. Evans, recently
ran together a break of 1989. We suppose this
break was made something on the sarae line as
our wonderful time trials ou the Parramatta. We
trust, for Weiss’ sake, he will not make mcwre than
a dozen of them duriikg the play for Alcoeki’s tour-
nament.
Small attendance and plenty of dust a t the
Liverpool races on Saturday last. Dr. Cortis’
Chesterton won the Hurdle; A. Smee’s I irate
carried off the Flying Handicap; Kelso’s Ba*own
Eagle won the two-year-old Selling Stakes; .Paul
cantered in the winner of the Selling Race; and J.
Cannon's Merlin defeated Ellington for the Liver-
pool Handicap.
“Him clever!” said Johnny Jacobs, .the
bookmaker, in tones of deep disgust. “ His clobl >er
may be all down the frog, and he may part 1 tis
Barnet In the I’ll ask you; butclever!” Andtlaen
old Abe, who was standing by, shrieked, whi n
corrected in his grammar by the sporting re-
porter: ‘‘What! me misuse Lindley Murray ?
Why, I tell you straight that I don’t even knot/
the fellow by sight.”
The English 20-miles professional cham-
pionship was won by Howell by a yard and
a half from Wood, Lees half a yard behind the
second man. Keen led for 18 miles, when he re-
tired. Time, 63m. 13 3-ssec. The international 25-
miles championship was won by H. Battensby, the
50-miles Champion, H. O. Duncan, ,of Bordeaux,
second. De Civry, the French Champion, was
fourth. The winner’s time, lhr. 17m. 3i)4-ssec., is
the fastest on record for the distance.
We never hear the name of Dormelly and
Sullivan In connection with the “bringing out”
of the “champion of the universe,” a Ithough, to
our personal knowledge, It was fro' n the well-
known Glebe Point shed, and in boa cs belonging
to Donnelly and Sullivan, that William Beach first
made his dihut on metropolitan waters. He re-
mained in their hands, and was boated by them for
many months; and it was only after the Punch
trophy race showed what he really could do, that
others took him up. And yet, through all the
speechifying, we have never heard their names
mentioned. Why is this thus ?
The Philadelphian cricketers have been
entertained at dinner on board Nelson’s ship Vic-
tory at Portsmouth, and also at a ball given by
Admiral Hornby. The King of Sweden was among
the guests. We don’t notice anything about the
Australians being on board the Victory, or twirl-
ing on the light fantastic at the Admiral’s. How-
ever, it’s no doubt much better in the long run to
have plenty of gate-money and a “ square ’’ dinner
at the Tavistock, unfettered by the restraints of
ultra-conventional society, than to simper among
raspberry ices and still colder maidens in the
charmed circle of a frigid aristocracy.
“ On Ist August, at Providence, thegelding
Jay-Eye-See trotted one mile in 2min. lOsec. Next
day, at Cleveland, Mr. Vanderbilt’s mare Maud ».
trotted the same distance in 2min. This is
the fastest time on record, and the interest in the
event has temporarily eclipsed all other topics.”
We must some day, we suppose, reach the limit
beyond which the speed of a norse or mare cannot
possibly go; but, until then, this constant repeti-
tion by Maud S. of “ fastest on records ” by a
quarter of a second or so will necessitate more
accurate subdivision of time. She might one day,
you know, do in it 2 minutes 9 and 47-hundredtns
of a second.
The three-mile bicycle handicap at the
Sydney Amateur Athletic Club sports was one of
the best-contested races we had seen for a long
time. Lambton’s machine went wrong during the
running, and he would have been out of it had
Phiz, not resigned his bike. The ground lost dur-
ing the exchange was sufficient to break an or-
dinary man's heart; but Lambton went at it like a
well-bred ’un, gradually overhauled and passed
his men, and eventually won a race to be proud of
from W. C. Chapman, 100 yards; J. Thurlow, 50
yards, third. G. H. J. Hardwick did some grand
walking for the two-miles’ challenge cup. He beat
record time for both the mile and two miles, doing
the distances in 7min. and 15min. 19sec. re-
spectively.
The Yankee troupe of athletic amateurs
are catching it from the English Press. On 26th
INCLUSIVE.
SERVANT: “PLEASE, SIR, THE CAT HAVE BEEN AND EAT THE FISH AND CHICKEN
AS I GOT IN FOR YOUR BREAKFAST. WHAT WILL YOU HAVE?”
MASTER: “I’LL HAVE THE FISH AND CHICKEN.”
SERVANT: “BUT THE CAT HAVE EAT ’EM, SIR.”
MASTER: “WELL, I WON’T BE DONE. COOK THE CONFOUNDED CAT!”
July they declined to compete at a meeting espe-
cially arranged for them at Liverpool, by the
South London Harriers, on account of the wet;
but, on the following Monday, the troupe put in
an appearance at Stourbridge, and entered with
spirit into the races with utter disregard of the
rain, which fell almost without cessation curing
the afternoon. Says it flu's Life: “This seems
rather rough ou the Harriers, unless, indeed, the
visitors have come to some arrangement whereby
they are now ‘on their own hook.’ ” From which
it Is apparent to the naked eye that Myers and Co.
are not running their show on the same lines as
those seraphs the Philadelphian cricketers.
In the first annual quarter-mile swimming
competition for the salt-water championship of the
world at Portsmouth, sixteen started for the race,
which was carried on in two heats and a final.
Sergeant, of Portsmouth, won the first heat in
6 min. 544 sec.; and Cairns, of Liverpool, the second
easily in 7 min. 54 sec. In the final, which was
watched by thousands of spectators, including
representatives of all the principal swimming clubs
of England, most of whom sent delegates to com-
pete, Cairns won by half a yard. Time, 6 min. 33 sec.
Through a deviation from the course Sergeant lost
quite a couple of yards. Where are all the crack
Australian swimmers—the M'lndoes, the Corbetts,
the Cavills, and other representatives of the Mel-
bourne and Sydney clubs ? We hope to see Aus-
tralia represented next year.
The veteran pug, Joe Goss, is still alive
though not kicking, as he is stated to be paralysed
in the lower limbs. He bosses a whisky mill in
Boston. Joseph aspired to the championship, but
never reached that exalted position, although
when he defeated Tom Allen in America, they
tried to make out the match was for the champion-
ship. In 1863 he fought Mace for a thou., but the
Gipsy was too much for him, and won in 1 hour 55
minutes. The pair met again, when they stood
looking at each other for over an hour without
striking a blow, and the affair was called a draw.
In 1866 they met a third time, in a 16-foot ring, and
after fighting something over half-an-hour, Goss
was compelled to cry peccavi. Joe, when in his
iprime, stood sft. BMin., and turned the scale a
.shade over ten stone and a half.
W. Read, of Glebe Point, has just finished
I timbering a fishing boat, built to the order of
I “Podge” Newton, an old identity in connection
Swf th open boats in Port Jackson. The boat under
mrtiice is 23 feet long, seven feet beam, and five
ri«f£‘aoross the tuck; has a carvel bottom, and is
intended for a working fishing boat, though, from
the look of her, we should say “ Podge ’’ will have
a good mortgage on races for working boats
during the coming season. So soon as she is out
of the shed, Read will start a 22-foot racer, to the
order of Mr. Longtield. It cannot be expected our
Donnellys, and Sullivans, and Ellises will last for
ever, and we ate glad to see any young uns
coming out likely to keep up the prestige ot Port
Jackson for open sailing coats —the style ot crait
eminently suited to our waters.
When we advocated, some time since, that
the Association Cricket Ground subscription would
not hurt for a slight raising, we did it with the idea
of compelling on-lookers to pay a little more for
their amusement, and not with the intention of
putting the “ screw ” on the already overtaxed
cricketers who provide the sport. Though two
guineas per annum may be none too much for the
outsiders who go in for the money’s worth ot
amusement, we certainly consider it too stiff tor,
at all events, the unfortunates who belong to clubs
which pay their £25 per ann. for a practice wicket.
However, we look forward to the good time when
the athletic clubs raise a ground of their own, and
when King Phil, and Co. will be glad to minister a
little more to the wishes of cricketers to whom the
Association Ground was dedicated.
The twenty-fifth meeting of the Sydney
Amateur Athletic Club eventuated on the Asso-
ciation Ground on Saturday last, in the presence
of a fair attendance. P. James won the 100 yards ;
E. Lupton won the quarter-mile maiden; W.
Howard won the mile walk from scratch; D. D.
Middleton ran away with the half-mile in 2tn.
7lsec., the three-quarter handicap from scratch
in 3m. 2645ec., and the mile handicap from scratch
in sm. lsee.; E. Lupton, P. James, and D. J. Lenane
ran a dead heat for the 150 yards handicap; J.
Palfreywan (150 yards} won the mile maiden
bicycle handicap; G. H. J. Hardwick won the two
miles walk challenge cup in 15m. 19sec; F. G. Rus-
sell won the 120 yards hurdles on the post from E.
M. Bowman; E. Lupton (6 yards) won the 300 yards
handicap; A. Hilliard, Sydney Grammar School,
won the schools’ half-mile; H. H. Lambton, from
scratch, carried off the three-miles bicycle handi-
cap in 10m. llsec.; and E. C. Addison (10 yards) ap-
propriated the quarter-mile hurdles.
The Beach-Hanlan negotiations are as
nothing compared to the efforts made by the Trea-
sury and Lands Departments to arrange a match
between their respective sculling champions. The
Lands came out first with an offer to back their
man for a trophy to the extent of a quid aside, but
the bong-tongers of Macquarie-street treated such
an offer with the scorn it deserved, and replied
that a sixty-guinea trophy, thirty a side, would be
the least at which their man would consent to
strip. And there the matter is supposed to stand;
but we have it from those who oughtto know, you
know, that the Lands men have decided to allow
the matter to stand over till the first of the month,
when the office is to be canvassed, and if a fiver
can be raised, an effort will be made to fix up a
match for that amount. Thirty pounds, forsooth!
quoth one Lands man, why the very sight of such
a fabulous sum would be sufficient to send me on
the randan for a month—provided I could nego-
tiate with “the Jews” for the wherewithal.
The pacers are knocking spots off the
trotters in America, so far as the records go. For
the benefit of those ignorant of the technical de-
tails, we may state with respect to the difference
between the two styles that whereas the trotter
moves near fore an i off hind —off fore and near
hind-together, the pacer goes in giraffe style, the
logs on each side aefing in unison. Difference in
time rates between trotting and pacing has until
now been small. At one period the pacing record
would be in front of that for trotting; then there
would be an upheaval the other way; then pacing
would get in front again; and so on and so on, the
rivalry being always fairly exciting. Maud S.
lifted the trotting record above that of pacing, but
in return Johnston beat the trotting record—by a-
quarter of a second only—and there the relative
merits of trotting and pacing rested until the day
when Westmont was harnessed in company with a
running mate to a wagon, July 10.1884, and re-
duced the record for pacing from 2mm. lOsec. to
2min. IMsec.
The Notts County committee refused to
let any of their first eleven off for the match be-
tween the Players of England and the Australians
at the Oval on July 31. Notts, it may be remem-
bered, on that day met Gloucestershire. The
World says ‘‘there, are too many Australian
matches,” ami this little par. is printed for the edi-
fication of aft “ Kangaroos ” by a London news-
paper:—“When the Philadelphians visit Ports-
mouth on the Ist and 2nd August to play the
United Service Club, they will be entertained in
barracks by the garrison regiments, and on board
Nelson’s old flagship the Victory by the naval offi-
cers of the nort. These cricketers were asked
what share of the gate-money they would like, and
replied at once, and decisively, none. The Aus-
tralians, on the contrary, do not visit Portsmouth
this season, on account, so it is said, of the Club
not being able to arrange financial matters to their
satisfaction.” When this was shown to Murdoch,
he said “decisively”: “The Yankees evidently
know exactly how much it’s worth to see them
play.”
The rowing men of England as at Henley-
assembled last month issued a. mean, pitiful, and
narrow-minded manifesto, unrivalled even in the
history of that paragon of shoddyism, the ama-
teur rowing-men definition. Among other items
of information, we again have the one thrust
upon us that “no person shall be considered an
amateur oarsman, sculler, or coxswain who is
or has been by trade or employment for wages a
mechanic, artisan, or labourer, or engaged in any
menial duty.” This is building up a barrier with a
vengeance, so as to avoid contamination. The
very man who becomes Lord Chancellor may find
barred to him the sacred portalslof amateur row-
ing. The late Charles Dickens was considered
good enough company for most men of rank and
talent; vet he, according to the story of his life as
told on his own authority, would, when at his best
and greatest, have been ineligible for membership
of an amateur rowing club. Not because the late
Charles ;Dickens was a mechanic, artisan, or
labourer—he never did anything as wicked as that
—but because he had at one time been, owing to
necessitous circumstances, and, as a small boy,
engaged in “menial duty.”
At the Madison Square Garden (U.S.), horse
show, the leaping competition appears to have
been a'wonderful performance, as “ Langtry ”-Geb-
hardt’s horse Leo jumped 6ft. 6in. Six horses en-
tered for the contest, and all got over 4ft. Bin.
save one that refused. At sft. Sin. another horse
was ruled out. The remaining four cleared sft. llin.
and 6ft. lin. was attempted. This height was cleared
by Leo and two others, and then the tremendous
height of 6ft Sin. was announced. Bets were
freely offered that none of the three horses left
would clear It. The Goat shied three times before
it, and dropped out of the contest. Then came
Leo’s turn, and he shied the first time. But the
second time he started at a canter, and rapidly in-
creasing his pace to a wild dash, he rose away into
the air and passed over the barrier, barely grazing
the top with his haunches, while the spectators
rose as of one accord, and cheered and cheered
again. Hempstead made three brave though un-
successful efforts to equal Leo’s feat, and fairly
earned the second prize. Leo was bred at Paris,
Ky., by Mr. James Frazer, who sold him to Mr.
Oliver Iselin, who in turn sold him about a year
ago to Mr. Gebhardt. The horse is six years old,
1 and stands 16 hands 2 inches. He has been trained
for the hunting field, and has had practice in it.
The Balmain Rowing Club may be con-
gratulated on the success of their afternoon’s
racing on Saturday last. The competitors were
attired in an out-of-the-way neat style, which
might well be copied by some of the other clubs,
and the arrangements were well carried out by
the executive, the only mistake being in having a
turn when Nature has been so lavish to them in the
way of a straightaway course. The race in Bkiffs
for the championship of the club was spoiled at
the turn, and although we believe the best man
won, the race was no test of it, as it was just as
likely for the worst, as the best man to get away
when they were all bunched up at the turning
point. J. and A. Fraser, J. Beadman, and J. H.
Read started. The four rowed all together for the
first half-mile, when Read drew out and reached
the turn first. J. Fraser and Beadman then came
up and a foul occurred, Read getting away
with a lead that enabled him to paddle over
the remainder of the oourse, an easy winner,
i A. Fraser, who was last to turn, passed Beadman
’ and his namesake while they were locked together,
and secured second place. A. Kinnamont, who
rowed in good style, won the race for members
under 10st.; T. R. Ainsworth, who is the makings
of a good sculler, won the contest for scullers
under list.; and the concluding race, for double
Bcullers, fell to Kinnamont and Peers.
Just listen to the voice of the charmer in
the London Daily Telegraph To Ulyett be-
longs the lion’s share of the credit, and his grand
performance in dismissing seven batsmen for an
average of a fraction over five runs per wicket
confirms the pretty generally accepted notion that
as a fast bowler he has few, if any, superiors. His
easy, faultless delivery enables him to attain a re-
markable degree of accuracy, whilst, from his
powerful physique, he can, and does occasionally,
put down perhaps a faster ball than any other
bowler. In addition to these valuable qualities,
Ulyett, like Spoffortb, is enabled to break the ball
considerably from the off, with this difference in
the YorkBhireman’s favour, that, with a speedier
delivery, he breaks to a greater extent. Ulyett's
difficulty is in regulating the length of pitch, of
which a distinct example was given in the preset t
match. In the first innings of the Australians, he
appeared unable to getaway from pitching a short
length, and, as a result, his efforts were altogether
futile, whereas, in the second innings, from the
good length attained, he was almost unplayable.
He was to some extent assisted by a defective
wicket, which bumped frequently and danger-
ously. Several of the Australian batsmen received
injuries of more or less severity, and Blackham so
much so that his services with the bat became un-
available shortly after making his appearance at
the wicket He himself was greatly to blame for
not using a batting glove upon his left hand.
Cool, isn't it ? Blackham says wrought-iron
armour of the Kelly pattern will soon be de
rigueur.
The facts of the “ground-rushing” affair
at the match between the Australians and the
Players on Ist August, were sinrply these:—The
seoond innings of the Players had concluded, and
the Australians had only to make 28 in order to
win. When 17 had been scored and one Australian
wicket was down, the luncheon-bell rang and the
teams proceeded to leave the field. Whereupon
the crowd, who strongly objected to wait through
the luncheon hour for the purpose of seeing
whether 11 runs could be scored by the nine re-
maining wickets, immediately conceived the idea
that the Australians didn’t want to finish the
match at once for afternoon gate-money consi-
derations, and started to root up the stumps. Just
as if an Australian ever thought of gate money 1
Just imagine Spoff. wanting gate money! Next
day it was announced that the multitude had
made a grave mistake, inasmuch as on the evening
of the first day of the match orders had been given
that no money should be taken at the gate after
mid-day of the morrow, The boys having thus
clearly proved an “ alibi,” we find them not
guilty,” with a strong recommendation to mercy.
At the same time, it’s impossible to overlook the
facts that, though the second innings of the Players
was over at twenty-three minutes past one, the
Australian innings, which according to law should
have started at 1.33, did not commence till I.4b—
and that it is openly alleged by a great many people
who “ profess to know,” that the arrangement as
to “ no gate money after luncheon ” was quite an
afterthought. The excuse given by Murdoch him-
self appears to be that as the wicket was drying
and rapidly getting fast, he thought more eclat
would attend finishing the match after lunch-
Besides, in the words of Dr. Johnson, Billy liked
to lunch.”
After a cessation of them for a year• or
more, the sixteenth quarterly sociable was held at
the Sydney Gymnasium on Thursday night, as it
was complimentary, the audience generously con-
sented to fill all the chairs, and stand up at the
back. The platform was also full, and an Italian
strinir band relieved the tedium of muscular
monotony. Sharp at 8, D'Harcourt came out, and
gave a really fine display of club-twisting, i nen
a dozen of his young men appeared, and practisea
on the horizontal bar. Some were pretty goo?,
but, on the whole, there was an uncertainty m
their movements which indicated that they wanted
to show off more than they could do; and even
what they could do was not done with that ease
and finish which ought to characterise a dis-
play in public. It is very evident that,
though all the young men are thirsting tor
evmnastie glory, few of them have given tnai
ceaseless, untiring diligence to their practice which
is necessary before they can achieve it. in ine
weight-lifting, aspiring and perspiring youths time
after time struggled to do what it was quite evi


Travers Vegetable Compound
COPYRIGHTED.
m
M
copyrighted.
“THOUSANDS OF LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs . Travers' Compound
does all that it claims to do' 9
C3»lts purpose is Solely for the legitimate healing of diseuse
and the relief of pain, it is prompt in action.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMEDY
For all those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female population.
Price, 10s. 6d. per Package.
Ladies, it will under ull circumstances, uct in harmony
with the laws that goverh your system.
Cjr*That feeling of bearing down, causing pain, weight, aud
backache, is always permanently cured by its use.
IT IS A GREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
C3*lti« a Blessing to overworked women, audits sales are
unprecedented. 11removes faintness, flatulency, all craving
for stimulants, and relieves weakness of the stomach. Periods
passed without pain.^o
Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
flyfflt revives the drooping snirits. invigorates ami har-
monizes the organic functions gives elasticity and firmness to
the step, restores the natural lustre to the eye. und plants on
the pale cheek o f woman the fresh roses of life’s spring und
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE.
the cure of Kidney Complain, cf either sex this
Compound i s unsurpassed.
Mrs. Travers’ 4 4 Guide to Health” will be mailed free to any
ladysendinar stamp. Letters ofinqubv confidentially answered.
Packets Mailed freo from observation on receipt ot price.
Address, P.O. Box, 907. Svdnev.
MILS. TRAVERS’ LIVER PILLS cure Constipation, Bil-
iousness, and Torpidity of the Liver. Price 2s. 6d.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper shouldgeta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnsss, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. KSP" CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Subatf*
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS*
Op
IN
es tored
meows
R
I ESSENCE
GP
le only infallible remedy for
jW-RyodsJjEßiLijYT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and ©very other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at Ills., or four quantities is one for
(565.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney, «
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
NOTICE OE REMOVAL,
coin m CUTLER,
[TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
£10,000.-91 EL BOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.]
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney,
desires to point out to the public generally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All "persons,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
the books of the Club. 2nd. Every opportunity is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
drawing, who choose to make application for
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number r>f our prizes, one is almost sure to win
one or other.
Plan of Distribution :
First horse ... £3OOO
Second „ ... 1000
Third „ .. 500
Starters divide .. 500
Non-starters .. 250
The above facts and flguresspeak for themselves,
and it will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £3OJO, by far the largest
offered in any consultation, is a fortune, which will
be secured by investing 10s.; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round sum; our third carries off £600;
and our prizes are far in advance of all competitors
for public support. Our drawing takes place on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it will take place before. Result of
drawing sent at once to evdfy subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do:
if gold be sent, register letter, bend addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Address—J. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Agent. Tattersall’s Buildings, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
P.S. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
of the winner of our first grano prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
great prizes in thin grand Consultation.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “MALABAR” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SERIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THE “Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thanks to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their wcll-acknowleaged
strict attention, coupled wl'h thorough integrity,
to make the “ Malabar ” Consn Rations by far the
most popular of any in the colonies.
£2OOO
At the request of a large number of our sub-
scribers we have arranged to make our Shares but
ss. each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand Pounds, i
We shall send also a single ticket to any address
on receipt of 55., which will entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus free on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed;
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Tickets sent by return post. Address, by letter
only,
G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
New south wales.-monster consul
TATION on Hawkesbury Handicap, Metro-
politan Stakes, and Melbourne Cup, 1884. Capital.
£5OOO, in 10,000 shares at 10s. each. About 225
prizes—£2soo for horses, and £2500 prize gifts.
Plan of Distribution First horse, winner in
each event, £1000: second horse, £500; third horse,
£250 : starters, £250; non-starters £500—£2500.
Fi st prize gift. £600; second prize gift, £300; third
pri-’e gift, £150; 10 at £5O, £500; 10 at £25, £250;
20 at £2O, £4OO ; 20 at £lO, £2OO ; 20 at £5, £lOO-
-
Application by letter only, addressed W. Burn-
bard, 110 Elizabeth-street; or Box 832, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Cheques payable to W. Burnhard or
bearer ; if cash, to register letters.
P.S.—Please state for which event. Prospectus
by application.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamedagamsi the World
H
« •
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George Sc Market Streets, Sydney
1 3BT Teeth painlessly extracted by Laugrhln? Gas,
ASther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
dent they were unable to do. And a performer
ought to know exactly what he can do, and what
he can’t, before he appears in public; otherwise he
may make a fool of himself. Cansdell’s perform-
ances were all well finished and clever, his magni-
ficent muscles enabling him to work his arms with
the force and precision of engine cranks. The
little German was quick and neat; but the cham-
pion Scotsman did less than usual. Young Dawes
is improving rapidly, and two or three others of
the youngsters—if their enthusiasm is directed
rightly—will make capital gymnasts. Illustrations
of wrestling and boxing were given, and a tug of
war concluded the evening. A large number of
ladies were present, looking prettily interested,
and awfully innocent about the whole proceed-
Woman Items
A Frenchwoman says : “ For a refined
woman, the most seductive love-declaration is the
embarrassment of a witty man.”
Mrs. Weldon, the notorious London liti-
gant, pleads her own cases in court during the day
and sings sentimental songs at a music hall in the
evening.
When a “new pose for a professional beauty
to be photographed in ” was enquired for. it was
suggested that she should be “ taken ” with her
husband.
Young ladies now carry in their hats small
clusters of leaves partially concealing two tiny
green velvet frogs, which signify that the wearers
are ready to jump at the first eligible offer.
A Liverpool (Eng.) woman is prosecuting
four doctors for having improperly certified her
insane. One of the grounds given in the certifi-
cate of lunacy is that she “ was determined to have
a husband.”
Little Johnny went in and told his mother,
Mrs. Crimsonbeak, that “ Bridget was in pa’s
arm .” When Johnny was brought to again, he
explained that “ Bridget was in the drawing-room
sitting in pa’s arm-chair.”
We know a young lady who broke off an
engagement with her best young man, simply be-
cause he wrote her a letter in red ink. The young
lady has auburn hair. People with that head-
covering never were the least bit sensitive about
it.
In a breach of promise case. Defendant’s
counsel to fair plaintiff: “Did defendant enter
into a positive agreement to marry you ?” “ Weil,
not exactly; but he courted me a good deal and
told my sister that he intended to marry into our
family.”
Sir James Paget has just expressed an
opinion that all games in whioh boys and men
engagod—except football—should be shared by
girls. Leap-frog, for instance, would be invalu-
able as giving girls a freedom of action aud ele-
gance of attitude unattainable by other means I
At Catford, Eng., a young fellow named
Avery shot himself dead, after writing, in a letter
to his brother; “Take my advice, and never have
anything to do with girls, or else you will lay
yourself open to have your heart broken like
mine, Fred.” Counsel of this description is wasted
on the average young man.
“ That is a beautiful young woman across
the way,” said a Parisian gentleman to his wife.
“ She is, indeed,” the lady assented, “ a remarkably
pretty woman.” “I wonder if the gentleman
whom she just now met is her husband?” “I
think he must be,” replied Madame; “I noticed
he didn’t lift his hat to her.”
There are only four Australiennes in Singa-
pore, and they are wed. Quite a flutter in the
“ Lions’ City ” when it was said that some buxom
Australians bar-maids were coming from Calcutta.
There are no bar-maids here, writes a correspon-
dent. We lavish our attentions on somebody
Oise’s wife or a daughter of the land, i.e., a dark
Malay.
“I am shocked, my dear,” said a husband
at a ball the other evening, “that you should
waltz with that stranger. The idea of allowing a
man you never saw to put his arm round your
waist.” “ I should not have done it, love, only I
found, after a few moments’ conversation, that I
formerly knew him.” “Indeed?” “Yes; he was
one of my early husbands.”
Another blow at matrimony has been dealt
by an alleged genius, who, in a fit of despondency
induced by despair, invented a machine for darn-
ing stockings. Statistics show that three-tenths of
all marriages result from the necessities of bache-
lors arising from holey hose, while the remaining
seven-tenths are caused by Cupid’s capers and the
innate love of domestic rule.
The baby show in Paris will be a “ big
boom.” Already 600 pi’oud mammas have entered
their bebis. The “exhibits” are to bo between
one and three years of age; the most beautiful
and most healthy is to receive 1000 f., while the
most robust only comes in for half that sum. But
every child shown is to have a medal, which is
expected to become an heirloom.
In England, a woman went to bed and
left some stale fish for her husband’s supper. He
compiained, and she got up and cooked him some
gruel, which she burnt. He growled again, and
asked for “ a stimulant,” whereupon she brought
him some rum in an unwashed hair-oil bottle.
Then he began to “ wallop his own nigger.” she
is now on crutches. He is in gaol.
Sardou and Alexandre Dumas will find
that the now law of divorce in France will very
materially interfere with their favourite situation
—an outraged hUsband waiting to break the sixth
commandment because madame has fractured the
seventh. On the day the law was promulgated,
three thousand demands for divorce were at once
made, several distinguished and noble families
being among the applicants.
A Parisian Don Juan was found the other
day by the husband making love to his fair young
wife in a cosy and shady boudoir. Don Juan, not
knowing he was the husband of madame, and be-
lieving he was simbly an inquisitive friend, whis-
pered in his ear, “ I beg of you 10 keep the secret.”
But, sir, the lady is my wife; and, by Jove I
Wlli ~—’ “Oh! well, then,” answered the dude,
coolly, I promise you I will keep the secret!”
Young wife: “My dear, you were the
stroke oar at college, weren’t you ?” Young hus-
oand: Yes, love.” “And a very prominent
member of the gymnastic class?” “I was the
leader. ( And quite a hand at all athletic exer-
cises ? Quite a hand. My gracious! 1 was the
?? a i™P ion walker, the best runner, the best man
at lilting heavy weights, and. as for carrying'
why, I could shoulder a bullock, and ” “ Well
hours j' I’m tired 8 ”’ CaiTy the baby a cou P le of
A young fellow had a sister whose name
eSBIc J • Bh ® was Pa ck ed off to a fashionable
school, and in a post or two her brother was a little
s n£Z lse ?J° flnd her signing herself “Jessica.”
oo he sat dowu and wrote her something like this •
Hear sister Jessica, Your welcome letter received'
Mammaica and papaica quite well. Aunt Maryiea
° cle Georgioa started for their trip yesterday 1
rJ a ™ a new horse; it is a beauty, it is
Samtoa >. a ™ lCa ’ et ?l . Your affectionate brother,
oamica. The next letter was signed “ J eesie.” I
A popular actress who, cholera notwith-
standing, has been spending her holiday at one of
those pretty but improper French watering-places,
tells how she visited a modiste’s there for the pur-
pose of purchasing, if possible, a ready-made bath-
ing costume. After examining several, she ex-
claimed, “ But none of the seams appear to he
seourely stitched.” “Ah, that is so,” quickly re-
plied the saleswoman, wiih a cunning “it is
on purpose; just one leetle accident, and madame
always gets an offer of marriage.” Just like those
naughty French.
A lady, fat, fair, and forty, stepped on to
the luggage soales at a railway station, and asked
the porter to adjust the weights. “ About two
hundred pounds, mum, I should say you be,” was
that worthy's remark by way of small-talk, as he
was adjusting the balances. He was right to a
pound. “Dear me,” she asked, “how did you
manage to make such a capital guess?” “Well,
mum, you see, mum,” was the half apologetic re-
joinder, “I’m used to the guessing of weights.
I’ve bin in the pork trade five years, and it was
my place to weigh the hoes!”
Thus a London writer: “ A well-known
nobleman, pious and peripatetic, in the course of
his daily rounds called at the house of a frail and
fashionable beauty, whom he considered as an
eligible bratd to be snatched from the burning.
Ushered to her boudoir by an indiscreet servant,
he found the lady standing, with her lover on sis
knees before her, in the act of making an offer.
Most men would have beaten a hasty retreat, but
Lord , feeling quite at home, dropped down
into the same attitude, and joining his bands to-
gether, said solemnly, * Let us pray!’ Tableau 1”
In England, the female evening or full
dress is, and always has been, de riyucur, dtcoUeU.
It is the established Court dress of the English
Court, and there never h is been a .Sovereign so
strict in the rules and regulations which enforce
its observance as is the Queen herself. Her
Majesty in her best days was never alarmingly
reluctant as to the extent of her own display of
those womanly charms with the possession of
which she is in no small degree endowed. Her
daughters, too, when in evening dress, are quite
lavish in an exhibition which leaves but little to
the imagination. Especially may this be said to be
the case with the Princess Louise.
People addicted to false teeth always say
they are more comfortable and vastly prelerable
to genuine teeth. This is also the line of argu-
ment adopted by the woman with the glass eye,
and the man with the wooden leg. But that false
teeth are not perfectly comfortable is shown by
the fact that when a man wearing false teeth is
secure from observation be invariably takes out
his teeth, especially in hot weather. All wearers of
false teeth will be interested to learn that an
American lady, who has had an entire set of upper
false teeth, and who neither conceals the fact, nor
pretends that they are preferable to real teeth,
now carries them suspended by a cord round her
neck, as it recently occurred to her that it would
be the part of common sense to use her teeth
only when she desired to talk or eat.
The unfair sex have always had men at
their mercy, but now that to their own craft and
wiles is added the genius of great inventors, we
don’t see any escape left, without stepping over
the edge of the world. The vague uncertainty as
to how much real woman, and how much art, he is
courting has always been a hau iting trouble on
the mind of the youthful lover, who is judiciously
kept at a distance. But even this precaution will
now be needless. His heart’s idol may even per-
mit her suitor to gratify his curiosity by a little
discreet fondling, and still not give herself away
enough to destroy his innocent ardour. What we
mean is simply this: A firm of rubber manufac-
turers in Paris advertise what they describe as
their “patent balloon contours, by which the
bosom of beauty can be made lifelike, both to
sight and touch.” The advertisement is not quite
clear. If the girl is satisfied that her patent ar-
rangement is life-like to look at, we don’t see
what she to touch it for.
In Heath’s “ Book of Beauty ” it is re-
corded that the famous Countess of Coventry (one
of the “ Beautiful Gunnings ”) had to be protected
in her walks by constables, so infatuated were the
people with her beauty in 1750. When Mathews
first took his wife to America, in 1838, she was
mobbed every time she appeared in the streets.
She was the famous Madame Vestris, famous as
having possessed the most perfect foot (and handle
to it) of any woman of her day. And now, in 1884,
Mrs. Langtry is crowded upon at every place, till
she can hardly venture out on foot. In
the most fashionable watoring place of Cali-
fornia, Monterey, where all the aristocracy
herds to its exclusive self, a “well-connected*
dude spied the Lily the first Sunday she ap-
peared. Bursting with the importance of his
knowledge, he and his companions gave chase,
and in a few moments Mrs. Langtry was sur-
rounded by hundreds of leering youths in galley-
pot collars and toothpick shoes. When, to escape,
she even took a short cut across some flower-beds,
they followed her, and eventually she had to take
a seat, and hide her face with her parasol, while
her maid returned to the hotel and procured an
escort and a vehicle. Then the mob of aristocratic
cads slunk away, and said “she wasn't much.”
Mr. Sarony, the famous New York photo-
grapher, has been giving his experiences of actors
and actresses before the camera. The ordinary
actress, he says, is the worst nuisance. She is never
satisfied, and always has ideas of her o»n which
are as a rule detestably inartistic. “Of all my
sitters, Bernhardt was the best. She was terrible
in one way. Always late for her appointments.
She would rush in three hours after time, but
apologise in such a pretty way that J had to for-
give her. Then she not only knew how to pose,
but when I got excited she felt the reflex of my
emotion, and so would gradually assume the ex-
pression I desired, and a grand pioture was the
result.” Mr. Irving was too busy to sit, much to
the gushing photographer’s sorrow. “ Suppose we
had such heads of Talma, Kean, Garrick in cha-
racter ! What a study they would be! As it is, we
have indifferent engravings from indifferent paint-
ings. Booth has not cared to sit much. He seems
bored always when the theatre is mentioned, and
does not care to be photographed at all.” Miss
Terry’s tantalizing ways tried the ecstatic Mr.
Barony’s patience sadly. “8h« is simply the best
subject I have ever had, but the most tantalizing.
I was in despair when she was in my studio; every
movement was a revelation of grace, every gesture
a picture, and every exoression a delight. I was
crazy with pleasure. ‘ There, there—do, for Hea-
ven’s sake, stay in that position for three seconds,’
I would cry, but the next instant she had moved,
and some other lovely pose was the result. Her
walk across the room was a succession of pictures,
but no sooner did I implore her to remain for one
moment in any of the positions she assumed than
it was gone.”
The host of lady litigants who are posing
ns lawyers in the conduct of their own cases
before the English courts, are “amoosin’ little
cusses.” For instance, when in the Court of Ap-
peal the other day, that great lawyer the Master
of the Rolls said to Mrs. Weldon, “The point of
law as to your right to sue upon the contract is
against you,” Mrs. W., with the air of a very
learned counsel, indeed, gravely replied, “ I think
so, too, my lord.” Whereupon Sir Balliol Brett
continued, “ Well, we think so, and you think so.”
Then there is the Dowager Countess de la Torre,
who is engaged in the benevolent task of rescuing
from a life of hardship all the houseless cats that
she can discover, and who does not confine herself
to those forsaken cats who have actually solicited
her attention to their wants. Seventy-seven for-
lorn grimalkins has the Countess placed in the way
of earning an honest living in the course of nine
months, and it would seem that in her own house
she has a sort of creche for kittens where their
mothers can leave them on bamboo chairs while
the benevolent founder of the institution is using
her influences on behalf of her charges. This lady
has been very successful in introducing to the
world several highly cultivated cats, who
have taken prizes in competitive examinations;
and yet, despite her good works, she appeared in
Court, with a big lump of brief paper in her la
Tisseur-like digits, to appeal against a magisterial
order, whereby she was ordered to discontinue
keepmg 33 cats aDd dogs and other animals. An
inspector stated that he had visited appellant’s
house, hut before fretting there he noticed a most
abominable stench. In the front kitchen were
three puppies, in the back kitchen six cats, on the
lirst floor 11 cats, some of them ophthalmic, one or
two on the stairs, and some fowls in a room at the
top of the house. The Countess said, in Court,
that “ her husband was a Minister at Rome.” She
was a great student of natural history, and could
pass an examination as a doctor, but her father
was opposed to it. She had taken an interest in
cats ail her life from feelings of humanity, and
because she was writing a book on natural history.
Her cats were always a subject of flevylng black-
mail by her landlords. Her object was to find
homes for cats. She had several very valuable
cats worth £lOO each, and had taken several prizes.
She had two Manx cats which were considered
perfect. Her appeal, we are sorry to state, was
dismissed with costs. Queer extremes meet in
lovely woman. A lady, charged with assaulting
her husband, had, it seemed, knocked about half
his teeth down his throat with a broom-haDdle,
which broke with the force of the blow. Yet,
when ordered to find a peace surety, she “was
carried out of Court in a faint.” The husband
said it was “all through his mother-in-law.”
A lady writes: “I have used Avar's Sar-
saparilla in my family for many years, and
could not keep house without it. For the relief
of the pains consequent upon female weakness
and irregularities, I consider it without an equal.”


I Have Been
Connected with the drug business for twenty
years, and have handled every blood purifier and
remedy of any consequence for the treatment of
Blood, Skin, and Scalp diseases, and unhesitatingly
say that no system of remedies ever devised or
compounded so completely and thoroughly eradi-
cates the diseases for which they are intended as
the Cuticura Remedies. Many remarkable eures
have come to my knowledge, and I feel safe in
warranting satisfaction if directions are followed.
CHAS. H. MORSE, Druggist,
Holliston, Mass.
That invalid wife, mother, sister or child
can be made the picture of health with Hop Bit-
ters. Observe.
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quick complete oure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
A dniggista. Moses Moss & Co.. Sydney, Agents.
F
ÜBNITURH SHOW BOOM
BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Bprlntr streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINET- for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
B 1
iEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
► and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-Found bedroom suiTES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft-, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRB,I6 guineas.
BRADLEF, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
3*
jOQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOtl strong’, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O'
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush
itly l
, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O ’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NBVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEV.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
T\RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JLf A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board. DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-street.
INING - TABLES,, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING lIAMMOC KC HA IL-
Patented.
D
8
This chair adjusts itself to any position, fro®
sitting to reclining and vice verm , at the will or
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in it*
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash— strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAM !3 (only). .
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
FRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
B
B
EDSTEAD§, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamp*
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
YV
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 2Sa. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chaffs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conneli-street.
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
B 1
Assortment; best make, lon est prices.
SOCIAL
It was sultry at the sports on Saturday
afternoon, and the large crowd preferred loung-
ing in the stand till a laie hour, before the general
parade began. Then, a good show of fashion was
seen, and Spring toilets were plentiful. Indeed,
the amount of spring in some of them was remark-
able. It would be impossible to describe all the
new materials which are daily making their ap-
pearance for Summer wear. Their variety is infi-
nite, and their charm indescribable. But still,
pure white heads the list of toilets; for, when
made with skill and worn with grace, there is
something essentially womanly in a pure white
dress. Two were conspicuous on Saturday.
That worn by a tall young lady who shines
in many a ball-room, was beautifully made,
with large pouf, and worn with small straw
bonnet and light yellow gauntlet gloves—a white
parasol to match was just the touch of taste that
made the whole toilet perfect. The wearer of the
other was an exceedingly handsome girl of Devon-
shire-stroet, whose gloves were bright yellow, and
sunflowers were set on the brim of her Henri
Deux. One of the new fabrics, like broche nun s
veiling, of deep cream colour, made a dress that
was much admired. It was distinguished by the
bold freedom of outline now so fashionable, and
clasped at the waist with a black velvet Swiss belt.
The cuff facings, collar, and gloves were also
black, and the whole arrangement tasteful and
effective. A tall young lady with an enviable com-
plexion wore a cream nun’s veiling, so crisp and
clean-looking, and generally pretty, that everyone
admired it. A tall young lady from Randwick
wore a pretty new costume; it was of fuHgus-
brown cashmere, with satin trimmings of cedar
colour, a handsome hat, elaborately trimmed, and
the gloves corresponded. A light heliotrope, fall-
ing in plain folds, with mauve zone and ribbons,
and a large sheltering hat, made a young lady look
cool and comfortable in such weather. And,
while on hats, one girl wore such an immense
article, lined with black velvet, that, if a strong
wind had started, she would certainly have had to
get a couple of other girls to help her home. No
single girl could ever have carried that hat in a
gale of wind. It was like “Hanlanshat” in the
George-street window. The daughter of a large
builder in Elizabeth-street wore a rich costume of
green check silk, with peacock-blue vest front
and skirt panel; a fair Paddington pianiste wore
a punch-blue cashmere, which suited her well;
two Surry Hills sisters were neat in white linen;
the wife of a liedmyre solicitor looked very charm-
ing in a black broche toilet; and the daughter of a
teetotal M.P., of Newtown, lively in a nice white
toilet copiously embroidered, with a yellow rose rt
the throat. There were numberless other costumes
interesting to look at: some good, some gaudy,
some models of unobtrusive neatness, but the
general air of taste that prevailed was very notice-
able, and most of the ladies could be best described
by the comprehensive (though not new) phrase
“ well-dressed.” Two sisters in black velvet looked
too warmly clothed for the close afternoon: but
their dresses were extremely pretty ones, and none
looked nicer. Two satins were prominent—one
a trained dress, was of the pallid hue peculiar to
the shrimp before he is boiled; and the other was
suggestive of the lurid coiour supposed to prevail
in another and a warmer world. The playing of
the Naval Artillery Band in their bright new uni-
forms was pleasing, and several times they sang as
well as played. As for the racing, it was first-class.
E. Lupton breasted the tape first no less than four
times in short races, and D. D. Middleton landed first
in the three long ones. When all was over, the
people poured out as usual into the midst of a
squadron of plunging cab-horses, and the gentle
drivers had their usual fun seeing how close they
could rush by timid people without actually run-
ning over them. The traffic arrangements at the
Association Ground are very creditable to the
transit authorities. Fortunately, there were no
trams. If there had been, the cabbies would have
been deprived of some of their fun.
• •
A good ball was held in the Masonic Hall,
Dubbo, on the 17th inst., in aid of the Convent
Building Fund. It was a success, being attended
by over sixty couples, and some pretty toilets
were worn. The most noticeable were two hand-
some trained white silks, worn by Mrs. Alexander,
from Warren, and Mrs. Philips, of Dubbo. 'Vliss
Butler had a host of admirers, and looked superb
in a soft white robe, relieved with cardinal flowers.
Her sister, Mrs. Ryan, looked well in a trained
pink nun’s veiling. Mrs. Caro wore a handsome
dress of cardinal broche, draped with a very pretty
net. Miss Tib bets, in pink, was very much ad-
mired, as was also Mrs. G. H. Taylor, in black silk
trimmed with pink. Mrs. Leeds, from a station
below Dubbo, looked charming in white satin.
Mrs. Gill's dress of blue and pink suited her well;
and Miss Oljorman wore white and blue with good
effect. Dancing was kept up till half-past four,
and po doubt all the guests were thoroughly
satisfied.
■ • m
On Tuesday evening, lGth inst., Mr. and
Mrs. Alex. Dean, of Elizabeth-street, gave a dance
to their friends, at Nithsdale. The rooms were
profusely decorated with flowers and flags, woven
Into many beautiful mottoes and figures. There
were about 170 present, and the two sons of the
host acted very courteously and efficiently as
M.’S C. Amid a fine display of beauty and dress,
the daughters of the hostess looked charming; the
elder in white satin broche body, the younger in
ruby velvet body; both with skirts of nun’s veil-
ing. The honours of belle were pretty equally dis-
tributed between two points (Potts’ and Milson’s).
The dresses which looked the most handsome or
unique were—maize satin and spangles, from Wat-
son’s Bay; heliotrope satin and cashmere; black
surah, artistically trimmed; white satin body and
muslin skirt; black gauze, and white grenadine.
A favourite at Nithsdale looked jolly in white
surah and pearls; a light blue cashmere, trimmed
with white lace, suited the tall, graceful figure of
a belle from a Northern suburb. Two sisters from
St. Leonards looked sweetly pretty in white; and
two sisters from Potts’ Point, in light blue, danced
with consummate ease and grace. The party
broke up at about 3. All seemed to have tho-
roughly enjoyed themselves.
* * *
A plain find fancy ball, in aid of the hos-
pital, was held in the Mechanics’ Institute, Coona-
barabran, on the 15th inst., which will be a red-
letter day in the social calendar of that town.
The hospital is the doctor’s big baby, and Dr.
Loughlan has been very energetic in working for
its welfare. The committee. Messrs. H. 11. Smith,
R. A Hawley, and T. Guerin, also worked well,
with some of the fair sex, and the baby will pro-
bably benefit over forty pounds. The ball-room
was nicely decorated with pines, mottoes, &c., and
a refreshment-room was erected outside. As
it was not large enough to hold all at
once, the Coonabara “bran-mashers” natur-
ally felt the deprivation of the ladies’ so-
ciety very keenly. The supper-room was
like a Garden of Eden with only Eves to
eat the fruit. A little flirting general ly takes place
at supper, and the local lovers pour sweet nothings
into the ears of the fair while they load sweet
somethings into her mouth; and it was disappoint-
ing to have the usual practice interfered with.
Besides, being kept at the same time from both
ladies and jam pastry was like being deprived of
all the sweet things at once. At 9 the music,
which was the weaaest part of the festivity, be-
gan; and soon after, the following fancy characters
could|beseen dodgingabout the floor:—Lord Dun-
dreary, a well got-up affair by S. F. Moore: Night,
a black dress with stars and wand, by Miss
Ewing, who was duplicated later on by Miss
M’Donald in a similar dress. But both had a
change, the former also appearing as Esmeralda,
and the latter as a Nurse of the Red Cross. The
sex is always changeable. Two Highland Lassies
were Misses M'Gregor and Church ; Daughter
of the Regiment. Miss M. Loughlan; Bride, Mrs.
Hyeronimus, looking very attractive; North Star,
by Miss M’Hugh in blue satin; Morning, Miss
Martin; Mabel (from "Pirates”) Mrs. Nicholson,
looking charming; Swiss Peasant, by Mrs. Tom-
kinson, one of the best dancers in the room; Retka,
Miss C. E. Ewing; Cherry Ripe, Miss J. Ewing;
Huntress, Miss Maggie Dean; Housemaid, Miss
Grace Dean; Red Cross Nurse, Miss Montgomery.
A pretty semi-blonde, from Baradine, looked
cnarming in white satin, with mauve bodice and
trimmings. Two married ladies from Cassilis-
street were prominent, one in old gold satin, with
black satin beaded underskirt, the other in cream
and cardinal. Dr. Loughlan was Hamlet; and Mr.
J. Dean was Count Delamere, in a good outfit.
Tago was Mr. C. E. Nicholson, and some thought
his the dress of the night. Claude Duval (J. Night,
jun.), Claude Melnotte (H. H. Smith), Italian Bri-
gand (W. Field), and Pirate King (8. Sowden) were
among the others, but most of them sadly wanted
substance in the calves. Sir Joseph Porter was
Mr. J. Pinoham; a Neapolitan Fisherman, Mr. w.
Blackman; and Sir Peter Teazle, Mr. G. Tomkin-
son, a very handsome dress. A Cavalier was Mr.
G. Neate; Officer Mr. R. A. Hawley; Robin Hood,
Mr. A. Dean: Tim Flaherty, Mr. If. Keney. It
was well on towards daylight when the hospital
ball came to an end. There is some talk of a brass
band being started in Coonabarabran.
* * *
This Friday the anniversary ball of the
Railway Department takes place in the new
Masonic Hall. Castlereagh-street; and Messrs,
r’earce and Daly, the secretaries, are working it
up carefully so as to ensure a night’s enjoyment.
Either plain or fancy dress may be worn, and the
Young Australian band is engaged. Dancing at
half-past 8.
* * *
One of the finest balls Ballarat has seen
was given lately by the Freemasons to welcome
R.W.D.G.M., Sir W. J. Clarke, and his wife. Nearly
500 were present, and the decorations, floral de-
vices. regalia, and dresses, were all very fine. His
Excellency the Governor and Lady Loch were also
present, and a number of toasts were given at the
supper. An orchestra contained twenty-five picked
musicians. Mrs. Morrison, the Mayoress of Bal-
larat, wore one of the handsomest toilets —a lemon
satin dress, trimmed with lace and white-frosted
roses, diamond jewellery according with the dress.
Lady Loch’s costume was an unassuming black
broche and black lace flowers, silver jewellery.
Lady Clarke wore an elegant amber silk dress of
great beauty, clouded with tulle of the same hue,
and-set off with diamonds.
Though the Londoners’ Club did not make
a pretentious start in Sydney, it has flourished;
and it’s tirst annual ball—which occurred in West’s
Rooms on Friday—may be taken as a presage of
many pleasant gatherings in future. Mr. T. A.
Smith was secretary and M.C., looking well after
his guests, and at 4 o’clock, when the ball ended,
he had the gratification of knowing it had been
quite a social success. About nine o’clock music
began, and the room was soon astir with lovely
ladies and Londoners floating round the floor.
They did not all float, some people’s well-meant,
efforts are more like “working their passage’
that floating; and one gentleman’s ideas of the terp-
sichorean art were so extremely original that he
encircled his partner with his left arm. A few
young ladies and gentlemen wore fancy dresses,
more gaudy than extensive. There is one ad-
vantage in limited skirts; if the owner’s face is
not magnetically attractive, the spectator’s eye
may perhaps rest with interest elsewhere. There
were many nice evenimr dresses. A beautiful one
was of pink satin, and figui-ed silk skirt, of a good
flt and stylish make. Equally nice was a white
satin dress with cherries on the corsage, and about;
a dozen complete birds affixed on the lower skirt;
and perhaps the consciousness of this excellent
toilet accounted for the pleasant look its owner
wore with it. Mauve moire and tarletan composed
the dress of a bouncing, bunchy sort of girl;,
and two brunette cousins from Chippendale wore
very handsome toilettes; they were alike, sleeve-
less bodices and paniers of rioh crimson figured,
silk, and underskirts of old gold satin, the smooth
surface relieved merely by a few plain tucks. Tlhe
three daughters of the secretary looked charming,
the eldest wearing pink veiling prettily set off
with maidenhair fern and white flowers, and the
younger sisters pink and white, respectively.
Another trio of “pretties” came from North
Shore; one wore pink satin and white la.ee,
and another cream striped satin, with la:rge
flowers on bust and skirt, and her hair very
elaborately arranged a la wild Zulu. Both these
young ladies were extremely fascinating. Num-
ber three, being much younger, cannot, of couxse,
expect to be as effective as her sisters just yet.
But she looked very promising in white. A mar-
ried lady from Woolloomooloo was remarked for
her fine statuesque figure, well set off by a sleeve-
less costume of black, with old gold satin skirt in
broad plaits. The chaste little programmes in
white and gold, contained twenty well-assorted
fiances, and bore on them the arms of the city of
London, a plain shield bearing a broad cross, and
in one quartering the dagger that killed Wat
Tyler. Above, perched a sparrow, emblem of the
Club. Over 130 persons were present altogether,
for whom T. Cripps provided refreshments in an
upper room. It was a bother having to go up-
stairs every time, but the catering was well done.
Another disadvantage of the constant stair-climb-
ing was that the stairs are rather narrow and steep;
and as the present fashion in ladies' dress is so
very peculiar, bashful men had to look at their
boots all the time.
* * *
The quietness which usually reigns over
MurrumDurrah was enlivened on Friday, the 19th
instant, by a ball given by the ladies. The Assem-
bly Hal! was richly decorated for the occasion,
and, with the accessories of good supper and
excellent music from Goulburn, dancing was
thoroughly enjoyed by all present. The ladies
were indefatigable in their attentions to visitors,
and the success of the affair was due to their
exertions. Some pretty costumes were noticeable.
Cream and blue seemed the prevailing and
favoured shades, and a few black ones were worn.
The honour of belie was divided between a local
young lady in a cardinal satin sleeveless bodice
and cream veiling skirt relieved with knots of
cardinal, and a young lady from Binalong in pink
satin and cream lace. The programme of twenty-
five dances was not finished till the day began to
dawn.
* * *
On Friday, the 19th instant, Mrs. Barry
gave her second “At Home” at Bishopscourt.
Unlike Government Hou e receptions, Mrs. Barry’s
were by special invitation only; an i great was the
glee, and woeful the gloom, of those who were,
and those who were not, invited. From 3 o’clock
the road to Bishopscourt was quite gay with car-
riages ; amongst which were a few antedilu-
vian four-wheelers, looking more than usually
forlorn, and several smart hansoms, whose
drivers had a spry and self-satisfied air. In-
side the grounds all was animation. Tables
were spread under the verandah with snowy
cloths, upon which dark-blue old china tea-cups,
cakes, and flowers were set. The Bishop had been
early pressed into the service,?and his manner of
waylaying the guests and landing them before
these well-spread tables, and then rushing off to
seize fresh arrivals, was another proof of the
earnest masterfulness of his character. There were
very few of the male sex present, and those were
mostly clergymen and elderly men. There was
seen but one young one—a regular masher—and
one felt sorry for him, for he looked as though he
were lost. He wandered about in the most lament-
able state, and once, when he thought himself
unobserved, he threw up his lavender-kidded
hands in a helpless way, and muttered, in a sort of
stave whisper, “ Where am I ?” Many would like
to know what has become of that young man. for
the settled gioom of his countenance was suicidal.
The ladies came out in great force, and some of
the costumes were beautiful. Mrs. Barry was in
black broche, with small black bonnet and
grey feathers. Miss Constable was entirely
in white—bonnet, veil, and gloves to match. Her
aunt, Mrs. Constable from Balmain, looked elegant
in dark brown plush with small cap-shaped bonnet
1 of real lace. The bride of a newly-appointed very
Righ official carried a parasol which attracted a
good deal of attention. It was composed of loops
of white satin ribbon over a foundation of net. m
the hand it looked awkward and untidy, but when
open the effect was pretty. There were several
light Summer costumes, which a month hence
would be charmir.g, but were too unseasonable tor
last Friday afternoon. The Bishop, with Mrs.
Barry and Miss Constable, will visit Bathurst this
week, and be absent for about ten days.
* * *
The Oxford, and Cambridge dinner oc-
curred at Baumann's caf<s on Monday night. Some
sixty gentlemen, whose educational career had
been under tb.e auspices of the dark or light blue
respectively, ijat down to a most elaborate repast.
The Primate, Bishop Barry, was present, and the
company wa a mostly of the learned professions.
Besides the formal toasts, the only one was that
of “TheUriversities of Oxford and Cambridge,
and the diDmer was not tediously long, all being
over before. 11 o’clock.
• • •
Wedmisday last week, an enjoyable even-
ing was 8’ pent at the Mechanics’ Institute, Narrabri.
it being t Sr.e annua 1 ball of the Oddfellows. Special
attention, was paid to a line supper, and the dancing
was very hearty. Belleship was disputed, so many
having claims; but most favoured a young lady
from M' tlbourne, in cream nun’s veiling, lace, ana
pearls. A maiden in black satin, trimmed with
pink bigds and pearl ornaments, had many ad-
mirers:, while an amber satin bodice, with satin
and tajrietan skirt, was really pretty. Near day-
break the company separated.
** * *
Mi? is P. Whitaker, youngest daughter of
Sir F rederick Whitaker (whose wife lately died)
was married a week or two back, at St. 1 aul s
Catb edral, Auckland, to Mr. C. A. Baker, a sur-
vey! jr. The bride was accompanied by four maids,
all in white—Misses Emily Whitaker, Augusta
MiDjnett, Eva Chamberlain, and Lilian Lawford.
Th( jre was a fashionable throng present, and Mr.
and [Mrs. Baker began (their honeymoon at Late
Taxapuna ...Wilcannia BoatiDg Club had their
annual ball in the West End Assembly Hall, and
dfmced till close on daylight. A large number
of’ pretty fancy costumes were worn, and Ken-
n edy spread a good supper—A very interesting
vredding lately occurred at Gunnedah; Mr. K. K.
Lawrenson, B.A , of the Roads and Bridges De-
partment, to Miss Christina Clara, youngest
daughter of Mrs- M’DoDald, of that town. The
bride wore a handsome white satin broche, «nd
the four bridesmaids were Misses Tomson, Elsie
Bridge, and M’Farlane (2). Three of the bride s
sisters were present. A large number of nice pre-
sents were given to her, and Mrs. Harold lilley
played the “Wedding March.” Owing to neavy
rain, the ceremony took place at the bride s resi-
dence, where a party of friends enjoyed a happy
breakfast afterwards, Mr. G. Cohen taking the
«ihair On Thursday night last, the citizens of
Brisbane entertained the Mayor at a return ball in
their Exhibition.... At the Parkes breakfast, last
Thursday, some interesting facts came out. At
an early period of his colonial career, Sir Henry
was sheep-washer for a i armer. At his birth-place,
Stoneleigh, in Warwickshire, there was (and is
still) no public-house, and he never saw a drunken
man in his childhood An Institute for Ladies
Needlework is established at 103 William-street,
with the idea of assisting ladies in reduced cir-
cumstances. Miss Allwood, hon. sec... On Fri-
day night, 26th. the annual entertainment of the
St. Stephen's Temperance Society occurs in the
Temperance Hal), Pitt-street... .The Freethinkers
Conference commencing on Sunday morning will
be enlivened by a banquet on Tuesday evening, in
the City Chambers, and a soiree and ball on Thurs-
day next, in the Masonic Hall—The Fernside
Cycling Club, Melbourne, holds its ball on Friday....
French Club in Melbourne is 400 strong; meets in
Apollo Hall Another pleasant social was held in
the Oddfellows’ Hall, Newtown, on the 17th in-
stant, when pretty girls and their devoted slaves
danced till midnight to good music. It Is intended
to close the season by a ball next month...
One of the leaders of Melbourne society, Mrs.
Donald Wallace, has been seriously ill, but is now
convalescent ...Sir Samuel Wilson lately enter-
tained a large party at Hughenden, to honour Sir
Stafford Northoote. The rasoally reporters gave
Sir Stafford’s speech in full, but, strange to say,
forgot to “lay it on with a trowel,” as usual,
about the “ wealthy and enterprising Australian.”
... On Friday, 10th Oct., the inaugural dance of
the Oxford Private Social Club occurs in the
Protestant Hall. The club is composed of over a
score of gentlemen engaged in the city, who pro-
pose to give periodical dances and concerts to the
extent of three of each a year. About 150 are
expected at the first event on the 10th proximo
The secretary of the Braid wood Rink has pre-
sented a trophy to be skated for by members the
last three nights of the rink Ladies of Tenter-
field have asked the Mayor to convene a public
meeting, re a hospital ball Wellington hospital
ball, November 10 ... Hanlan and Beach have been
made Buffaloes. We believe they are both inex-
pressibly delighted — On the Bth October, at the
Masonic Hall, Mrs. F. Warskitt will give a “Danc-
ing Lesson”—or, in other words, her pupils will
give, under her direction, a complete exposition
of the art of dancing in its various branches It
will be a most interesting sight; admission, of
course, being by complimentary invitation—So
as to have cool nights to perch with the ladies, the
Sydney Owls have decided to have their next
social hyginx rather early, namely, on Bth prox.
They have rented the new Masonic Hall for their
hoots and hyginxes for twelve months The
fancy fair at Orange was immensely successful,
and is expected to net over half a thou. It closed
with a ball on Thursday night last.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ A.D.S.”: It seems to be quite a personal matter.
We cannot decide “The Stranger ”; Thanks;
could not make it quite so long “A.C.”:
One used; we had rather not take up the other.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Ilechabite Dinner (Protestant Hall) ..September 25.
Annual Railway Ball (new Masonic
Hall) September 26.
Grand Bazaar opens (new Masonic
Hall) September 29
Midlothian Lodge Social (Masonic
Hall) September 30.
Freethinkers’ Soiree and Ball (Masonic
Hall October 2.
Socials’Ball (Nithsdale) October 3.
Owl Hygynx (new Masonic Hall) October 8.
Bachelors’Assembly (Nithsdale) —October 10.
Mayor’s Ball (Town Hall) October 10.
Oxford Private Social (Protestant Hall) October 10.
Newtown Socials’ Ball October 10.
Amazon Q. A. Picnic. October 14.
Produce Merchants’ Picnio (Botany)..,.October 16.
Eureka Plain and Fancy Ball (Tatter-
sail's Hall October 21.
Undertakers' Picnic (Botany)..., October 22.


old t Ifc ever since. Joseph
shs“s S?-i a well > Colonel Jeffries tumbled off
the cliff at Ooogeo, and now we are waiting l for Sir
wu.o ry Trf+h 68 aiui A. 1 Ta ylor to go and do like-
wise. in the meantime, we are going up to Bel-
mor'® £ ar *;’ to Madame Woodyear’s Electric Cir-
* % ue squinoulum to see what sort of
tumbling they are doing there.
* * *
As we draw near the.doorof the“markee,”
Mr. Woodyear meets us with a smile that is evi-
dently the reflection of the gold he is compelled to
oount after each performance, and conducts us to
his private box. Then Madame comes and sits
beside us, and tells us all about the actors, the
trick ponies, the monkey, and the trained dogs.
Presently she whispers something in Mr. Wood-
year s ear, ;and we are quite unaccountably in-
vited to step out into Itbe office. We go like a
lamb to the slaughter, for the pretty, graceful, and
wd ilP ro s < L r *' loned Ruby Scarsdale is right in the
middle of her clever trapeze act, and is throwing
kisses that only miss Madame Woody ear’s ear and
catch us just under the nose every quarter of a
minute. We imagine, of course, that Woodyear
wants to show us his receipts for the evening, and
beguile us into making a par. about “the wonder-
ful and unparalleled success,” &c. &c. But, no; it
is not gold coin that the showman wants to show
us. It is gold top,” if you please; and we look
at it so much through the bottom of a very thin
four-ounce glass, that when we go back to our seat
the whole circus is turning around like a whirly-
gig with a boy on each end. We saw
one Myra Kemble sitting in the dress-circle before
we went out, but aftei wards there were two, and
each was trying how much prettier she could look
than the; other. We knew that this was merely
a trick of distorted vision, and we shut one
eye, and behold, there was only one face
where we had seen two. Just at this point,
Madame Woodyear laughs over one of our
last week s jokes that she has only begun to
see through, and Myra turns to see what all the
tun s about. No sooner does her eyes rest on us
than a scowl comes over her pretty face that we
wouldn t have brought there for the world. We
weren t winking at her, of course, but she turned
on us so quickly that we couldn’t get that other
eye open in time to save our neck. From this date
forward we reckon our reputation for courtesy
and proper deportment in that quarter will
be at a discount of about 400 per cent. And, by
the way, if you haven’t seen her lately, you
would hardly believe how fresh and bright Miss
Kemble is looking just
now. We are informed
that she is coming back
to the stage ene of these
days; and, if she plays as
well as she looks, we’re
going to say something
pretty about her, if we
have to lay awake three
nights in succession to
think it up.
* * *
But we haven’t told
you much about the
circus, have we? We
know you don’t care for
that, however, for you
have long believed that
“circuses are all alike,”
and differ only in degrees
of excellence. We have
seen better circuses than
Woody ear’s, and a multi-
tude of worse ones. In
some things the Elec-
tric Circus excels. Cooma
Kitehi and his perform-
ance on the swinging-bar,
for instance, is probably
the only performance of
its kind in the world; and
it is a most interesting
novelty. Then the jug-
gling on horseback of
Lerarti Lee has never
been surpassed, if, poesi-
bly, equalled anywhere.
The two Japanese,Cooma
Kitehi and Itohie some-
body (Madame Woodyear
calls him “ Itchie Scrat-
chy,” to save trouble)
are wonderfully clever in
everything they under-
take. Cooma does some
ground-tumbling feats
that nobody else ever
tried and got well again.
Of course you know that
Donald Dinnie, the cele-
brated Scotch athlete, is
with the Circus this
week, and is exhibiting
himself in wrestling and
feats of strength. Pro-
fessor Sylvester's trained
dogs aren’t “up to
much,” and the trained
ponies will be worth
something after they’ve
had a little more intelli-
gent training. But now
we must leave the Circus,
for there’s other shows
on this week, and you’ll
want to hear someting of
the rest.
“Fret you the ventages thus, and it will
discourse most excellent music," exclaimed Ham-
let, who lived at a period when the flute, or “ pipe”
as he called it, must have been in a very embryotic
state of development, judging from the instru-
ment exhibited last Monday night by Mr. Radcliff,
as the Identical one which the melaacholy young
Danish party used to enforce; some rather caustic
remarks made to his would-be father-in-law, who,
it would appear, had mistaken him for a wind in-
strument-misled, no doubt, by his proneaess to
make long-winded soliloquies. “ You can't play
upon this pipe, governor, simple as it is; and you
can’t play your games upon me—l am too fly for
you, you seel” Radcliff, however, could and did
play upon this identical pipe; and there is not the
slightest doubt but he could, with equal ease,
have twisted Hamlet round his Anger, and have
doubled him up in one round—or. perhaps, as
one may more aptly say, at one blow. We
were not aware that “We won't go home till
morning” was a popular air among the earlier
Danes—although (it never struck us before this
instant) the Ghost may have varied his usual as-
surance to Hamlet to the effect that he (the Ghost)
must tear himself away when the cocks began to
crow, by quoting the first and only line of that
somewhat hackneyed poem. At any rate, “We
won’t go home till morning ” seemed to be the
only tune within the compass of the Hamletian
pipe, and Radcliff played it with such pathos that
something or other rose up in our critic's throat;
it may have been emotion—it may have been only
the remains of a cigar, which he came into the
hall absent-mindedly smoking, and suddenly re-
collecting the place and the occasion, had no other
alternative but to swallow and get rid of it.
* • t»
Passing briefly on to the numerous assort-
ment of pawn-broker’s goods which lay upon a
table, from a stuffed pig to a section of gas-pipe,
ail of which in due rotation, were described and
played upon by the greatest living blower (not
even excepting Henniker Heaton), who demon-
strated, to the satisfaction of every one present,
that, with a little practice, one can laarn to blow
upon a musical instrument and talk very learnedly
and entertainingly in the same breath. We come
to that part of the entertainment which pleased
us most. It is that in which the great flautist
gave his wife a chance to say a word. And she
said her say, in spite of the fact that he kept blow-
ing on his something-or-other-keyed flute the
whole time with an expresei m of countenance
that reminded one of a small boy sucking a piece
ot sugar-ca”o-utterly regardless of the fact that
she was mistaking his performance for the singing
ft lark, and was tellinpr him so in the most
JP I woo! ol mu m ?' 111 l e . r Inj-ftg'iaftble. And what a lark
1 u Was • i e 18 » the lark and the voice grot so
that you couldn’t tell, for
the life of you, which was the lark and which was
the voice, and you didn’t care. Our critic was so
carried away that he fell to writing incoherent
epigrams upon the lining of his hat—a fact which
speaks volumes for the bewitching nature of the
performance. We append one or two of the least
maudlin. By the way, if you pronounoe Rita as
you write it, you won’t be right:
Than oharming Rita
There’s not a sweetah
Or fairer creetur
At the present time in Upper Fort-street. Ah!
Where’er you meet her
You’re bound to greet her
With glad
Hang it! what rhym ?s with greet her ? However,
that 11 tell you how to pronounce her name, and
the man who can do that with the appropriate ex-
pression may consider himself an [Here the
handwiiting becomes hysterical in the extreme,
and we find the MSS. stained with a circular blot,
which is undoubtedly the fossil remaias of a tear.
—Ed. B. I By a superhuman effort, our critic mas-
tered his emotions and attempted to speak of the
performance by the cold light of calm criticism. It
was of no use ; for, barring Mr. Radcliff’s in-
structive and satisfactory remarks upon the his-
tory of the various crude forms out of which the
perfect instrument of to-day has been evolved, the
performance dulls the nib point of the critical
goose-quill, and taking the emotions captive, in-
sists upon being reoognised as the most perfect of
the kind ever enjoyed in Sydney.
" THE POOR PLAYER.”
Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.]
Houp-la! En route. Kiatna is rejoicing
in Thynne and W. South’s (not Jimmy) Gaiety and
Dramatic Company. They did Wollongong to
good biz.—but things in Kiama are shy. We for-
Y man V Thynnes there are in this company:
?u Ufc . T V> h H_ be<m a “prolific” man ... And it seems
that Brisbane is really gone on Grattan Riggs,
where he is giving them that excellent piece,
the Irish Detective.” It is whispered in the-
THE LUNATIC CRESWELL AND THE TWO ORTONS.
THE photograph from which these portralte are copied was taken from the three persons in one group, by Mr. Worrall of
Parramatta, or who has copyrighted the picture. Much turns on the question whether the alleged Creswell is really the person of
That name, or Arthur Orton, brother of the two Ortons here portrayed with him. Of course, if Creswell be Arthur Orton. it
follows that the Tichborne Ciaimant now serving the last few months of his fourteen years’ sentenoe, is not Orton—but some-
body else; and as he was sentenced on the strength of alleged proof that he is Arthur Orton, his imprisonment will have been
wrongful- if not he, but Creswell, be Orton, Riders should try to distinguish the two brothers from these three portraits be-
fore turning to the key to the identity of the individuals, which will be found on page 12. Any one wishin g to follow up the
comparison, should prooure a copy of the original photo, from Mr. Worrall .
atrical circles that “Shin Fane” will follow.
Ho better actor of Irish parts than Grattan
Riggs has visited the colonies since William
O’Neill, and that was ever so many years ago. ...
and how has Clara Hamilton got ’em, singiDg her
“ twa ’oors,’’ with Sir Thomas MTlwraitn in the
Chair. In her company, too, there is a Miss
Jardine, who is stated to be a rosebud. We wish
we had such a flower in our Jardine ...The Law-
ton-Minnie Hope “ push ” have joined Miss Marian
Willis at Newcastle. Alf. had a ben. the other
night, and Beach was present—an event sufficient
at once to stamp the thing as a success from an
artistic point of view 1.... Oh, and the Waoga Ad-
vertiser has made the novel discovery that
Tommy Hudson is “ a host in himself.”... It seems
Duncan Maccullum’s opera party didn’t do so well
in Inverell, but have taken Armidaie by storm'
Mr. Maccullum has in the company a bass singer of
terrific power, named Rocks. This must be awk-
ward for Tyrrell, the stage-manager; for, when-
ever he produces a new piece, he has to cast Rocus.
And how about the amateurs in Bathurst?
“Trial by Jury,” if you please, no less; and, talk-
ing of amateurs, Geraldton (Vic.) has its “Cham-
pion Minstrels ” —modest creatures!—and they get
a column notice out of the unfortunate editor.
The “ Champion Minstrels,” though, number
amongst them several nou-professional local
ladies. Perhaps that would account however 1
We see that M’Lean’s lot are at Townsville,
where the Standard christens that unfortunate
boy Parlarto—“ Mr. Partallo.” And from the far
interior of Africa, Zulu Thompson sends us the
Knobkerrie, a little penny illustrated paper
published in Capetown, and which sings William’s
praises. It is not necessary to give any gifts away
at the Cape; Zulu’s eloquence, apparently, being
enough to “catch on.” Oh, by Jove, yes.
“Twins,” a new comedy, has been produced at
the London Olympic. Mr. Derrick is only 25; so,
being so soon the author of “Twins” cannot be
said to be doing badly “Fun on the Bristol ’
has done a decent three weeks at Garner's
at Adelaide—Wybert Reeve is about to proceed
to Brisbane in a fortnight, though whether
he has got anything newer than “The Money-
Spinner,'’ “Imprudence,” etc., besides “Moths”
and “The Philanthropist,” is a secret locked,
at present in his youthful breast ... Oh, and fancy!
Just because Emilie Melville wanted to do Laza-
rillo in “ Maritana,” the other night, at the Bijou,
in Melbourne, they put Eva Davenport up in the
title role —And, of course, Tom Rainford has bro-
ken out again—and at Bathurst this time!-with
some Christy Minstrels he calls an “ African Opera
Troupe.” Not above twenty million of the paying
public parted their ochre on the first night. But
there are reporters, etc , iu Bathurst to till au
ordiimry hall, and the swells like to go the second
because there is always then a depreciation
v? , or( ; e of onions in the atmosphere. ..Yes:
the Balmain Royal Amateur Minstrels had their
flutter lately, too, and an amiable party sends us a
critique (engrossed) on the performance, which
rm evidently considered would go in entire.
Hear how caustic he is:-“We (sic) have
been friends together, and Mr. Oscar Akhurst,
who contributed ‘True to the last,’ but we
wish to inform Mr. Akhurst that the classi-
calpose of your (sic ) hands in your (sic) pockets is
not appreciated by the rudo audiences of the pre-
daJ* *^ hl , 8 ls -?. ne o£ thoBe intelligent “ crickets ”
who thinks it s so nice to go to the theatre
every night for nothing Dan. Barry, at
Corowa, has produced with great splendour Mr.
C S. Parnell s drama, “ The Shamrock Green ” —of
which it is to be presumed (and hoped) Dan has
secured the sole right ...Auckland people think
Miss Augusta Dargon very proud, and somebody
recently got up a concert at Gerringong. The ad.
says see programmes,” but the performers don’t
send any. Poor D’Arcy Read played to a £2-
house in Newcastle some time ago, and then had
to sue the theatre people for the money. The ex-
commander got a verdict, bless him !.. .And
they ye been aping it at Redfern, too: Rev. Mr.
Houston on Dickens, and a lady on the pianner;
also an L.O.L. concert— Fremlin presiding ...Yes,
and a Miss Louise Crawford has sprung up as a
star at Auckland, and appears in the Observer of
that ilk with a Billy Wilson mouth and a pair of
black eyes. She will be remembered by some as
Mane in the Marble Heart.” She also does
Murray in the Woman who Disliked the Public-
house,,but larved her Cheild.... The Turner-Mon-
tagu Opera Company are making la fresh start to
tour the country. Besides the liquid-voiced
Charles and the divine Annis, the company com-
prises a good working team-an experienced body
of choralists and a well-balanced orchestra. They
open at Bathurst, squeeze orange tdry, and pro-
ceed. Caron conducts the orchestra.
Picton opines that it would be just as sen-
sible to talk of a chimney-sweep competing with a
jeweller, as of a parson with Charles Bright. Well,
there s something in the idea, only we should have
hardly gone so far as to make a jeweller the
analogue of Bright. Chimney-sweep, however,
admirably suits the parson, black being the recog-
nised blazon of either. By the bye, this raises the
old question, why are churchmen black? Fon-
blanque once reasoned from the colour of a black
teapot to that of a bishop, and found that just as
the one did not make good tea because, instead of
retaining its heat for what is put into it, it parts
with it outwards, so does the cleric—instead of re-
taining his warmth for the charity and holiness
with which he is supposed to be charged, he
throws out the heat on external objects, and so
loses the internal temperature necessary to extract
the virtue of good-will to men with the le-sons of
which they are stored. An Anglican clergyman
(such as he who insinuated that the Secularists’
weapons were abuse, ribaldry, lecherous talk,
filthy innuendo, andjfalsehood shouted from plat-
forms with an eye to selfish and unlawful igain),
with the leavea of Scripture in him inculcating
charity, heating all around him with orthodox
wrath against views that don’t coincide with his
own dogmas, while his human charity gets cold
in the same proportion, is like the black teapot
radiating out the heat which it should keep within
to draw the goodness from its contents, and thus
failing to perform its functions.
As resonant a logomachy as one might
choose to assist at has arisen out of those lectures
which Bishop Moorhouse has been giving in Bt.
Paul’s Pro-Cathedral in Melbourne. The subject
is a serious and solemn one, and we let it stand
aside while noting the lines to which the theologi-
cal belligerants commit themselves. First, the
Bishop spreads himself suorrwre, and gyrates about
the central dogma of Christianity so as to earn the
encomiums ora large class of people. Ihe great
majority of this class, it may be well to point out,
cannot, for the life of them, tell, five minutes after
the Bishop has linished, what precisely his verbal
polka signifies. Their little craze is to be esteemed
wide-minded, broad-hearted men, whose religion
is a respectable profession, and does not involve
any extreme views. They distrust extreme views,
and the Bishop’s style of reasoning makes it ap-
pear that the Founder of Christianity was a per-
sonage of whom the people of Melbourne may wall
feel proud. And there is something about the
episcopal tone that implies that that is no small
compliment to the Founder of Christianity. Well, a
lately-arrived Hebrew gets into the ring just about
here. He wants it to be understood that the Jews
of old knew what they were up to, and were well
able to assess the character of the new Reformer;
and that actually the sort of respectability the
Bishop claims for his Master existed in the Jewish
Church since the early days. The trend of the
Hebrew’s argument is that, in as far as the Bishop
succeeded in making the Founder of the Christian
religion respectable, or like the good people of
modern Melbourne, he made Him a gentlemanly
Jew. Thereupon Father Slattery unsheathed his
free and Hashing sword, and vaulted over the rope.
Father Slattery argues the question as a church-
man amo"g clurohmeu. but docs not deeply inter-
Jilwi'l! 16 lays the Bishop across his knees and
B a U vP* K C^B kin* to the battery of slaps which the
Ang-lican mother church should have lon# aero ad-
ministered. He cites the oaths Dr. Mooiffiouse
subscribed at his consecration, and implies that
were Anglicanism wrapped around as solid a back-
bone of conviction as Presbyterianism, there
would be another little schism like the Charles
strong one, and a Bishop would be getting a purse
of sovereigns and making tracks homeward on
account of the splendid fashion in which he had
persistently ignored what he swore solemnly to
maintain. As it stands, however, it is a line logo-
machy. °
Though London policemen are constantly
being shot by burglars, the authorities don’t like
™ arm them with revolvers. It is proposed to
provide Policeman X with and train him in the
use of the lasso! And as it is also suggested that a
!E? c \ a i ° rd er of merit for valorous policemen
should be instituted, and that on special occasions
Her Majesty should pin the medal to Robert's
manly breast with her own fair hands, it is quite
plain that the apotheosis of the bobby is fast ap-
proaching, and that the day is not far distant when
io J vlll ’A e u nB ' ar “ ed with the traditional club and
J* 8 . 8 ° ? f noble redskin of Mayne Reid, be en-
titled to the respect of every small boy who reads
sixpenny novels, lives—so far as imagination goes
• a wl Fwam, and smokes sheep-wash or stolen
tea in a penny clay, under the impression that ho
is in a solemn and dignified manner puffing the
calumet of peace. As we have several good friends
who sometimes come home late, we hope that
some reMonaffie guarantee will be afforded, when
the official lasso reaches Australia, that Robert
w! forfu ß lasso “drunks,” but that he
will do all his practice on the bodies of convicted
burglars within the walls of Darlinghurst. We
trust, also, that some effectual steps will be taken
to prevent the burglar from making himself pro-
ficient in the use of the lasso, in order to avoid the
likely contingency of respectable people
having, at midnight, with green-hide ropes round
their necks, to answer fully and to the satisfaction
of the two masked gentiemen who hold the other
° nd °s‘ be n 9??e, a variety of leading questions as
to the key of the office safe, and the “ location ” of
your Misses jewellery.”
It was not expected that any definite ar-
rangement would be entered into at the meeting
of scullers held at the Oxford Hotel on Monday
night, so that a general fixing up came rather as a
pleasurable surprise. Various were the sutrires-
tions made by those concerned, and still more
numerous were suggestions from those who know
not one end of a boat from the other, but who
have bobbed up serenely
during the discussions
on this! momentous na-
tional affair, as the Jaynii
puts it. After a couple of
hours’ “ barney,” things
looked so unsettled that
Beach, who was booked
for Dapto that night,
picked up his “ masher”
and made a start for
home, but was called
back, and in a few
minutes the whole affair
was clinched, agreements
signed, and deposits put
down for the following
matches: Hanlan and
Beach on 28th March,
and Hanlan and Clifford
on 18th April; but the
latter event only on the
understanding that Clif-
ford beats Beach in their
match on the 28th Feb-
ruary. Hanlan wanted,
right or wrong, to pull
the winner of the Beach-
CJifford match ; but the
Clifford party would not
do that, and insisted on
a proviso that a match
should first be made
with Beach, win or lose.
Then tides cropped up,
each side being as well
posted as a nautical al-
manac ; and when some
Goth in the room pro-
posed the date should
be fixed by the spinning
of a coin, the worthy
chairman, Mr. M’Cartby,
of that ilk, was scanda-
lised to think such a
national affair should be
settled by the tossing of
a grey, and that the
rulers of the respective
destinies of Canada and
Australia should descend
to the level of a “gaff-
ing” school. However,
all’s well that ends well,
and such was the state
of affairs when Beach
slipped off to catch the
eleven o’clock steamer,
bound for Dapto, the
historic spot where the
Champion of the Uni-
verse dreamed away his
early years, toying list-
lessly with a 141 b. sledge
hammer. The Beach-
Hanlan-Clifford matches
now standHanlan ar d
Clifford on February 7th;
Beach and Clifford on February 28th; Beach
and Hanlan on March 28th; and Clifford and
Hanlan on 18th April, the latter contest only in
the event of Clifford beating Beach on the 28th
February.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins. Is.*
There has never been produced a tonic or
stimulant to equal Wolfe's Schnapps; it has
maintained its hold upon popular patronage and
stands alone like the one Alexander.
Thousands of wealthy sufferers surrounded
with every luxury, would gladly exchange con-
ditions with the robust sons and daughters of
labour who minister to their wants. Sweep away
the tormenting maladies, then, with Bkistol s
Sarsaparilla and Pills.
Prudently break up your cold by the
timely use of Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant, an old
remedy for Sore Lungs and Throats, and a certain
curative for Coughs. To be had of all druggists
and storekeepers, and wholesale by Elliott Bkos
Pitt-street, Sydney.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted and Durable. E&ch package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. Fou will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 2d. ►tamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &c., &c., by return post.*
The Test of Actual Tbial. This is
what proves the merit of a preparation. The pro-
prietor of Green’s August Flower, knowing its
valuable properties, meets this test boldly by pre-
paring sample bottles of this remedy, which are
sold at 6d. This enables doubters to try its virtues
at a trifling expense. August Flower is a panacea
lor iiyspepsm and all disorders of the Liver, in-
cluding Biliousness, Indigestion, Sica Headache,
ve ? eBB, & c> < Three doses will relieve any
of the above, and a faithful use will certainly cure.
JNo medicine in the world has ever given suen
proof of its merits. Druggists recommend it with
perfect confidence and physicians prescribe it
regularly. Price for full-sized bottles 3s. 6d. Sold
by all druggists.


An Evangelical says that the reason the
High Church people burn so many candles is that
they are in the dark.
There was frenzied fright in his bursting
eyes, trembling fear on his quivering lips, stray
straws in his soorohed-banana hair, and the aroma
of rum and onions in his kill-at-500-yards breath,
as the editor of a Northern journal clutched a
mimbir av th’ local foorce, and gasped out, “ Sar-
jint, foiler me; there’sh thievesaroun’, an’murder
ttoatsh iner mi’night air. I’ve bin watchin’ one
f’ler larst hour on my verandah. He’sh evid’ntlv
drunk, or wantsher rob my office.” The “ foorce
was soon on the battle-field, and the affrighted
editor, pointing, cried, “ That’sh him; that’sh er
scoundr’l up against er wall; arresh him at once
an’ I’ll proshecute.” “ Prosecute be jammed,” ex-
claimed the sergeant, as ne slid off in disgust;
“ why, that’s your own wind-and-weather black-
board. Sober up, or I'll have to arrest you.”
Selections from the Battle of Waterloo
were recently given with great eclat in an oyster
saloon in Swanston-street, Melbourne, where, it
appears, a frivolous party of Johnny Crapeaux
were having supper, and a eray-fish, which was
served, not pleasing them, they generously tossed
it over the partition into the next box, where a
couple of perfidious Albion’s sons were surround-
ing oyster stews. The fish took one of the English-
men a nasty welt over the jowl, and he promptly
retaliated by flinging a heavy bottle over the nar-
tition, whioh broke the nose of the original offen-
der. The Frenchmen then threw over a whole
cruet-stand, which struck one of the English party,
who jumped up on the seat and sent it flying baok
again. The Frenchmen then left their box to
pursue the fight; the Englishmen, outnumbered,
removed their supper to the seats and turned the
table up on the doorway, completely barricading
it. The Frenchmen hurled their plates, knives,
cruets, and fish over the table, and the Englishmen
retaliated by emptying their oyster stews over the
faces and dress clothes of their assailants. All this
time the language used was of the most high-flown
and ornamental character, and when the police
lent their mite to swell the storm, the saloon
looked, and felt, and smelt, like a drunken lunatic
asylum on fire; and now, as the papers naively
say, “everybody is to be prosecuted, of course,
but as they fire all ‘ highly respectable,’ a few
pounds will ‘ square ’ the whole matter.”
“ Oh! it’s yes, my Lord, and it’s no, my
Lord,” with Granny of late to such an extent that
the old harridan bids fair to soon become the
champion journalistic lickspittle outside of Lon-
don. Speaking of St. Vincent’s hop, a few days
ago, for instance, our servile Jeames observes—
“ His Excellency Lord Loftus and suite, were re-
ceived by Sir Patrick Jennings and the members
of the ball committee, and escorted to the seats
reserved. Lord Augustus, however, preferred
mingling with the company, saluting and chatting
pleasantly with the ladies with whom he was
acquainted, and bringing a rosy flush to more than
one youthful cheek by his kindly greeting and
inquiries as to the state of the programme, and
the number of dances to be secured. After some
time His Excellency was conducted to! a private
supper room, where refreshments were served, and
he soon afterwards left.” Lovely, lovely, is it not?
In fancy’s eye we seem to see the giddy oid masher
chassezing round ’mid the low-nesaed throng;
stopping now to exchange a word with Mrs. Fin-
yookin about a new cross he has made by associat-
ing |half a dozen long-eared Brahmapootra hens
with a Madagascar monkey: anon graciously en-
quiring how Lady Lobbyjob succeeded with her
clutch of ring-tailed Cochin China’s, and then sud-
denly bringing a rosy flush, like the first symptoms
of a goldarned “rash,” to the youthful cheek of
the beauteous Miss Marguerite Malowney, as he
taps her playfully under the gills, and gallantly
remarks she is the prettiest little pullet in the
whole nest. Granny must have her little
joke, however, and so, in her own sly
way, she draws attention to the fact that
the refreshments being served, His Excel-
lency soon afterwards left the building. Talk
about the rank being but the “ guinea stamp
Bahl Hunter-street would grovel to a sore-eyed
ourang-outang, providing he was togged out in a
Court suit and kept his mouth shut.
When worn down and ready to take your
bed, Hop Bitters is what you need to relieve you.
See.
The oultured folk of modern times im-
prove on the anoient Romans, who used goblets of
gold and cups of silver, by availing themselves of
the infinite variety of charming dining sets as
shown at Bray’s, 402 and 404 George-street. *
John T. Mclnnbs and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. S 3 - Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &c. No commission charged for
buying. Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Btook.*
T. L. Smith’s Latest Move.
OPENING NEW PREMISES, at
418 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the present establishment, 399 George-st.
CLEARANCE SALE of BOOKB, STATIONERY,
PICTURES, FANCY GOODS, CARDS FOR
ALL SEASONS, ETC.
Surprising Reduction of 4s. in t.ho £, to expedite
removal of his enormous stock.
The Sale now progressing is a gratifying
success.
T. L. SMITH, 399 George-st.,
Exactly opposite the Royal Hotel.
ALCOCK& CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES
SOLE AGENTS:
CM 1501 ui 0
375 George-st Sydney
■P
TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED
Political
Points
From the third annual report of the Land
Nationalisation Society of London wo learn that
“ two members of the society desire to have some
land that they hold devoted to promote the reali-
sation of the Land Nationalisation principle. One
of these members has bequeathed a freehold in-
terest to the society; and the fact is happily re-
corded that these, the first offerings of the kind to
the society, are both from members of the medical
profession.”
A lot of fat sinecures are, thanks to the
Radical party, being wiped out in England. Not
so very long ago a Duchess of Manchester got
£2928 annually from the tax-payers as titular
“sweeper of the Mall;” another lady of title was
“chief usher in the Court of Exchequer.” The
Beresford family held the posts of “ wine-tasters,
storekeepers, packers, and craners ” in Ireland. In
every conceivable manner the English nobility
fastened themselves on the pockets of the people.
How else could a large and luxurious nobility be
maintained ? Charles 11. created fifteen dukes, six
of them his own illegitimate offspring, and throe
of his mistresses countesses. These the profligate
monarch, whose exchequer was always at low
tide, provided for out ot the public purse. Their
descendants, the Dukes of Richmond, St. Albans,
and Grafton, are still burdens upon the people’s
pockets in this way.
In N.Z., the short-lived Stout-Vogel Cabi-
net known as the Comet Ministry was succeeded
by an Atkinson-Wakefleld combination, which,
however, was only sworn in, to be immediately
kicked out by the House. This Ministry got the
nickname of the “ Dog Tail Ministry,” in this
way. In his speech in the “no confidence ” debate,
Mr. Wakefield argued that the new combination
was a different article altogether from the “ Con-
tinuous Atkinson Ministry,” and its policy in the
future would be quite different from that of the
late Ministry—and for a better as a matter of
course. Sir Julius Vogel replied that the argu-
ment suggested the old conundrum of whether
the dog wagged the tail or the tail the dog. In
this case there would be no difficuly in deciding
which was the dog and which the tail, and he
thought the tail would have to follow the dog and
get wagged in the old way. The debate resulted
in a second Stout-Vogel Government being formed,
which is now likely to oontinue in power for the
session and ensuing year.
The other day the London Times said, in
regard to the rejection of the Franchise Bill, that
“ the Conservatives would now be confronted
with the primordial forces of society.” In reply
to a convenient correspondent, who wants an ex-
Elanation of the phrase, the Bt. James Gazette, a
igh-toned Tory organ, says:—“By ‘the primor-
dial forces of society ’ the instincts of barbarism
are meant. It is to restrain the primordial forces
of society that policemen, magistrates, and gaolers
are maintained. The persons who shot the two
constables at Hoxton were moved to do so by the
?rimordial forces of society. In our days these
orces are most conspicuously seen at work in
brigandage; but the primordial forces with which
the editor of the Times threatens us will probably
go no further than window-smashing at first, and
ouse-breaking and house-burning later on.”
This is the kind of thing the Argds used to write
about Berry when he started to tax the Victorian
squatters, and root out the lazy holders of fat sine-
cures. But the Akgus got whipped and so will
the Tories.
The possibility of a combination between
France and Germany has long been considered by
the Russians. “The magnificent harbour at Wil-
liamshaven (Yahde), constructed by Prussia in the
territory of Oldenburgh, has for many years been
pointed out in warning as directed against Great
Britain. It is remarkable that, though Ports-
mouth and Dover are fortified against the French,
no fortifications protect the Essex coast against
the Prussians; yet the English autumn manoeu-
vres are always directed against an invasion from
the Channel, never against one from the East
Coast, marching to surprise London, which, in the
month of August, when the Government and the
people are all engaged in holiday-making, might
be both a speedy and an easy task.” England had
better keep her eye on the “ Yarmans.” It should
never be forgotten that when old Blucher
visited London, after Waterloo, he exclaimed,
“Mein Gotti Vat a place to saok!” And
we find that Germany, where there is now
muoh bitterness against England owing to the
undoubted jealousy manifested by the British
Foreign Office in regard to the proposed German
colonies, is evidently very much in earnest in her
efforts to become a first-class naval Power. The
projected ship canal across Holstein, large enough
to allow monster ironclads to steam through direct
from the Baltic to the German Ocean, is at last to
be commenced in earnest. The canal will blot out
unfortunate Denmark from the map of Europe.
Instead of commanding the Baltic entrance she
will dwindle down to an unimportant peninsula
with paltry maritime interests. In maritime war-
fare the sole possession of this short cut to the
Baltic will almost seem to give the German fleet
the property of Sir Boyle Roche’s bird, to be in two
places at once. It has now just come to this—that
the great Teutonic people have got “cocky,” and
mean to master the world if they can. They have
now started to expel all foreign words from their
language—and, at the same time, to enrich their
melodious lingo by some of the clumsiest circum-
locutions that misapplied ingenuity has ever pro-
duced. In State documents "Urschrift has dis-
possessed “ original,” and “pension ’ still later has
had to make room for “ruhegehalt.”
Daly, the dynamitard, who at Warwick
(Eng.), was recently sentenced to life imprison-
ment, tried to oast his last “ speech and confession”
in the Emmetian mould. He said, amongst other
things, that " ho would far rather walk into a dun-
geon than forsake the opinions he held of his
country and abandon hope of their realisation. It
was, perhaps, unfortunate for him that he had not
followed the example of the wretches who put the
Crown in possession of information which might
drag other men into the same position in which he
himself thou was. Whilst he lay in his cell, his
mind and his soul would still be his own property.
His life would bo his own, and in the darkness of
the cell his mind would lly back to that country
for which he had pleaded, and striven to teach the
people not to be assassins or cut-throats, but to
obtain their freedom as magnanimous and righte-
ous people, and to use their liberty as such in the
face of heaven and the world. His mind would
take him back also across the Atlantic, where it
would recall many fond recollections. They might
gond him to prison, but they could not control
those sentiments. The past history of his country
was one terrible story of blood. Ever since the
English people had set foot on its soil it had simply
been one continuous battle of self-defence, or of
blood poured out to satisfy the machinations of
despotic rulers.” All this doesn’t, however, alter
the fact that it was truly or untruly alleged on
oath that bombs had been found in his possession.
Daly delivered himself of a bitterly contemptuous
tirade against the informer, “the animal Moran”
(the approver whose evidence was instrumental
in securing his conviction), which reminded
one a little of Curran’s celebrated invective:
“The stormy wave of the multitude reoedes at
the informer’s approach, and the heart of man
bows down before him in the undisguised homage
of deferential horror.” Moran, said Daly, “ carried
his own hell about with him. and would continue
so to carry it until that inevitable day of doom,
when, to the undying fires of the larger hell within
his cankered bosom and his red-hot brain, there
were added those smaller eternal flames which had
been lighted during ten billion ages to satiate the
veDgeance of an unsparing God.” Great precau-
tions were taken during the trial; the Court-house
was surrounded all the time by police and military
stationed at specially-erected barriers. It has sinoe
transpired that a most dramatic and desperate
plot for the instantaneous destruction of the
Court and all within its precincts had been formed
by the Invincibles. Their intention, happily frus-
trated, was that Daly should, in the dock, suddenly
lift up his voioe and formally pass sentenoe of
death upon the judge, jury, prosecutors*, and wit-
nesses; and that, at the same moment, an Invin-
cible, who, disguised in barristerial wig and gown,
had, a few moments previously, entered Court
with a couple of law-books in one hand and a
baize book-bag full of panclastile bombs in the
other, should hurl them in the air and let them
fall, “mixing up.” as one of the brotherhood put
it, “ the Judge’s brains with Daly's toes,”
Professor Thorold Rogers has, in the cur-
rent number of the Fortnightly Review, a
scorching article on the House of Peers. He re-
affirms the resolution adopted by the Commons in
1649, “ that the House or Peers in Parliament is
useless, dangerous, and ought to bo abolished.”
Professor Rogers remarks that “ ever since the
Whig Peers resisted the occasional Conformity
Bill promoted by Nottingham, they have done
nothing but countenance all oppression and resist
all justice. They never raised their voices against
the atrocious Penal Codes of the Eighteenth Cen-
tury, though most of these bloody laws were
passed at the instance of the Whigs and the traders,
i;he latter of whom they cordially detested. . .
They have never resisted one foolish Act of the
Commons. The most cherished privilege of the
Peerage, their incontestable right to a writ of
summons, the heritable character of a writ of
summons, the incapacity to surrender a peerage,
are self-assertions, unwarranted by any positive
law. and contradicted by numerous precedents.
As to antiquity, there are not half a dozen peer-
ages, other than Baronies revived by the discretion
of the House, which date before the Reformation;
and everyone knows the history of the Reforma-
tion and the Stuart peerages. What has Lord
Salisbury, who'is leading the Lords against Mr.
Gladstone and the people, to say to the following:
“The most distinguished is that of the younger
branch of the House of Cecil, a family which
became opulent in the first place by the plunder
of the Church—a plunder wnioh, when Burleigh
was gorged, he was induced to stop. The first
noble of the younger stock was the adviser of
arbitrary taxation in the reign of James, and gave
the earliest occasion for the quarrel which led t®
the overthrow of the monarchy and the execution
SHE: “GRACIOUS! IS THAT DOG MAD?”
HE: “WELL, PERHAPS, CONSIDERING THE CIRCUMSTANCES, HE MAY BE. BUT
POSSIBLY HE’S MERELY VEXED.”
of the King. His son became a Parliamentarian,
and, as far as a Peer could be, a Regioide, for he
sat in the Lords until the Commons extinguished it
on Feb. 6,1649. The fourth Earl became a Papist,
and was associated with the bigotry of James and
the crimes of Sunderland. Thenceforward the
family became obscure, was duly raised to the
Marquisate, and is now represented by the reputed
Leader of the Opposition, who has been educated
in the House of Commons and by the Saturday
Review, from the latter of which teachers he has
probably derived his incessant and startling in-
accuracy, his habitual recklessness, and his lofty
contempt for anybody but himself." Of His Grace
the Duke of Argyll, Mr. Rogers writes :—“ The
Duke is a very able man, very lucid in speech and
writing, very eloquent, didactic, convinced, and
forcible. But I never heard of any human being,
or any human opinion, with which the Duke was
ever in sympathy. A nation may be diiven by
oppression into passive rebellion, or open acts of
outrage; but the Duk» has no regard for anybody
but the oppressors, if they belong to his own
order, and to interests analogous to his. The
wrongs of the Irish peasant, the distress of the
Scotch crofter, the despairing discontent of the
British farmer, are met by him with an insistance
on the sacred rights of one kind of property.
Even when he undertook to expose the economic
fallacies of Mr. Henry George, he could not re-
frain from insulting him. Ido not wonder at this.
It is the insita mperha of a nobleman who instinc-
tively concludes that anyone who criticises him
or his order must be in the wrong.” And as to the
demand of the so-called “ Lords " to a plebiscite or
general election“ The demand is supremely
ridiculous. It is to the effect that the majority of
500 persons, casual beyond description, and incom-
petent to judge beyond parallel, should arrest all
legislation, remit the representatives of the people
to the people, and exorcise the prerogative which
Charles I. exercised till the nation was provoked
into the Long Parliament.”
In the words of an eminent English writer,
the men who rule Ireland from Dublin Castle are
“ a Hock of black sheep—a more foul and scabby
set of sheep never exercised sway in any land.”
Mr. Bolton, the Crown solicitor, is but a brown
sheep compared with the dingy hue of French,
Cornwall, and others. Yet, in 1876, an English
Judge regretted that he could not strike the name
of this solicitor off the rolls, and the worthy
man, instead of being struck off the rolls,
was retained in office. Bolton, who is on the same
side of polities as Cornwall and French, who,
thanks to the boldness of Mr. O’Brion, M.P., editor
of United Ireland, and the skill and pertinacity
of Meiklejohn (the same well-known individual
who, some years ago, was sent to gaol with Detec-
tive-Inspector Druscovitch and Mr. Froggatt, the
solicitor), now stand committed for trial for the
most odious of crimes, brought a libel action
against United Ireland, which, he alleged, had
hinted that he was mixed up in the horrible “ Dub-
lin scandal.” When the case came to trial before a
“ property-pioked ” jury “of the right sort’ in
the Orange town of Belfast, Bolton at first refused
to go into the witness-box—thereby emulating the
example of a certain other gentleman who on a
recent oocasion prudently adopted a similar line of
procedure, despite the fact that he had sworn,
when resisting defendant’s application for a change
of venue to Dublin, that he (Bolton) was a neces-
sary witness in the case! It came out that Bolton
owed £90,000 and received £3OOO salary, of which he
annually allowed his creditors £3OO. He had been
allowed by the venality of the Dublin authorities
to retain his position, out of which he should have
been long ago kicked for bankruptcy, if for no
other reason. It has also transpired that French,
who had to leave the police service on account of
the infamous aots attributed to him, had actually
been given a pension by the very men who profess
to rule Ireland with justice ! 1 When Bolton, after
being fairly hooted into the witness-box by the
remarks of members in the Commons, was ex-
amined and cross-examined, things went along
in this wise:— ‘‘ Mr. Monroe: You heard the state-
ment made by Dr. Boyd yesterday that you had
broken open the box containing your wife’s se-
curities, and stolen them?—Yes. Is there the
slightest truth in that statement?—Not the
slightest. Dr. Boyd : The act speaks for itself.
Cross-examined by Dr. Boyd.—Did you swear this
same story when the proceedings were brought in
England?—l did. Did Mrs. Bolton deny every
word of it?—Yes: she took a different view. Do
you know what age Mrs. Bolton was when she
died ?-I do not; she was about twenty years older
than myself. Might I ask Mr. Bolton, if it is not a
too impertinent question, what age you are?—l
was born in 1818. Then Mrs. Bolton must have
been born in 1798; tell me would you have married
her only for her £80,000? ‘Witness hesitated’ for
some time.—Dr. Boyd : Come sir, answer the ques-
tion ; was it her money you married ?-Witness
(slowly) : Well, it was a strong inducement
(laughter).—Mr. Munroe: Truly that is a legal an-
swer (laughter).—Dr. Boyd (to witness): You would
nothave married her unless you gotafirstlife inter-
est in her money ?—I would.—With remainder to any
children of the marriage?—That was mere matter
of form. Tell me, were you humbugging this
woman who was born in 1798 ?—I was not. The
witness was then cross-examined as to the pro-
ceedings before the English Court of Chancery,
and denied the allegation that he had broken open
the tin box containing the securities. It was not a
fact that Mrs. Bolton refused to give up the key of
the box. Did you break open this box as a matter
of fact ?—I got it opened by an ironmonger in
Dublin. Did you ever get a key for the box?—
Never. I took possession of the policy for insur-
ance, but gave it up to the trustees in 1879. Had
you any illicit connection with Ann Every during
your wife’s lifetime?—Yes, she had a child, and!
Said affiliation money for a short time. Who is
Irs. Smith, Abbey-road, Kilburn, London ?—The
same woman. The age of Every at the time of
the seduction was twenty years. Witness paid her
money from time to time.” In addressing the jury
for the defence, Dr. Boyd remarked that it was
pleasant to find a man of Bolton’s repute come
into Court and call God to witness that there was,
at all events, one crime of whioh he had not been
guilty. Of course, the Belfast jury found a big
verdict for Bolton; damages, £3ooo.
• • *
The Dutch in Singapore are clean mad, a
correspondent there informs us, at the idea of
Australian annexation of New Guinea being per-
mitted.
Next to real victory itself, the best thing
out is a good retreat. The truth of this was evi-
dently well understood by a recent candidate for
aldermanic honours out West, who, on being
beaten by 27 votes, thanked the ratepayers heartily
for the "‘unbounded confidence which they had
almost placed in him.” For a six-feet, double-
edged. barbed, and poisoned Parthian dart, how-
ever, it would be hard to beat the retort courteous
of a defeated London candidate, who, being asked
how he felt after his drubbing, replied, “ Well, I
suppose I feel pretty much the same as Lazarus
did.” “As Lazarus did!” exclaimed the other;
“ how was that ?’’ “ Why,” returned the rejected,
“ Lazarus was licked by dogs, and so was I. This
looks as if our M'Elhone was beginning to make
his iniluence felt at home already.
Eheu! Is life worth living ? We are rather
inclined to think it is not, for, having consulted
Dr. Drounbrowski as to the best means of staving
off any attacks of the 300 per diem Naples cholera,
he drives us to the brink of despair by replying
nothing can save us unless we attend to the fol-
lowing painful regime. Voila!— “Live well—that
is to say, on cutlets, turtle soup, poultry, game, or
whatever you fancy, provided it is not unripe
fruit. Drink the best claret, champagne, dry
sheri y, and old cognac that can be procured—in
fact, ‘keep yourself up.’ Avoid worry of every
description. Do not worry yourself or let others
worry you. Point out to you>- wife and children
the absoluts necessity of protecting the ‘ bread-
winner ’ from annoyance—unless the family is pre-
pared to lose its head. Indulge yourself in amuse-
ments so long as they do not fatigue you. Allow
yourself ‘horse exercise,’ but be careful not to
overdo it. Walk in moderation, and always take
a hansom when you feel anything approaching
weariness. Early hours are desirable so far as
going to bed is concerned; but early rising is not
to be recommended, inasmuch as it induces
fatigue. Avoid, as far as possible, political and
other discussions. Leave public questions alone,
and take no part in conversations of a controver-
sial character. Read only literature. Smoke, ac-
cording to inclination, so long as the epidemic
lasts; but only cigarettes or cigars of the best
quality. By regulating yourj habits according to
these simple directions, you will find a great im-
provement in your health, and be, at all events, in
a better condition to resist cholera if it attacks
you.” All we want is 77 years of the above, and
then bring on your champion cholera.


disfiguring humors
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
jhfoim Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itoh, Sore
Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
anmors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
nimoly. Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
f the Skin and Scalp, with of Hair, are
Positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
Paternally, and Cuticura and Cutioura Soap
externally, when all other methods fail.
BAD BLOOD, Scrofulous, Inherited and Con-
tagious Humors, Glandular Swellings,
Ulcerous Patches in the Throat and Mouth,
Abscesses, Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores,
Scurvy, Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary
Organs, Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enoemia, Pyaemia,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cutioora Remedies.
humiliating blotches
WILL MCDONALD, 2512 Dearborn-street, Chi]
eago, gratefully acknowledges a cure of
«alt Rheum on Head, Neck, Face, Arms, and Legs,
f 0 seventeen years ; not able to walk except on
Lnds and knees for one year ; not able to help
Self for eight years ; tried hundreds of reme-
-5 “ . doctors pronounced his case hopeless ; per-
manently cured by Cuticura Resolvent inter-
nally and Cuticura Soap externally.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are the greatest medi
cines on earth. Had the worst ease Salt Rheum
in thia country. My mother had it twenty years,
and in fact died from it. I believe Cuticura would
have saved her life. My arms, breast, and head
were covered for three years, which nothing re-
lieved or cured until 2 used the Cuticura Resol-
vent internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura
SoAr externally. J. W. Adams, Newark, O. ft
ITCHING TORTURES
CHARLES EAYRE HINKLE, Jersey City
C Heights, N.J., writes: “My son, a lad of
twolve yoars, was oompletely cured of a terrible
le of Eczema by the Cuticoua Remedies. From
the top of his head to the soles of h-s feet was one
mass of scabs.” Every other remedy and physi-
cians had been tried in vain.
Mr. and MRS. EVERETT STEBBINS, Belob'-i
town, Mass., write: “Our little boy was
terribly afflicted' with SGrofula, Salt Rheum and
Erysipelas ever since he was born, and nothing we
could give him helped him until we tried Cuticura
Remedies, which gradually cured him, until he is
now as fair as any child.”
CUTICURA REMEDIES
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
r. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautlfier
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from CuTicußA f
is indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Bab;
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G~sasy Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticura, 60 cents ; Soap, 25 cents ; Re-
solvent, #l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.B.A.
OR SALE, OR TO LEASE,
MENZIES’ HOTEL,
in the finest position in Melbourne.
Established upwards of 30 years.
Receipts exceed £20,000 per annum.
H. BYRON MOORE, & McLEOD,
Exchange, Melbourne.
COOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Gi-eorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
V. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).;
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
OZE3O-.A-liTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
'. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOF NEW SOUTH WALES.
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &c.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Lunoheoni
and all kinds of demonstrations.
The DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-stairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hun tin)? Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOs. each.
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Piit-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GARTON’S HOTEL,
BWANBTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
8. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346.
SINGER & CO.
:v
J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S.W.,
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
SENT POST FREE FOR la. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders. Chronie
Disease, Impediments to Marriage, &c. How
to chooso a partner for life, so as to live happy;
How t 6 regain and preserve your health, &e.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
FIRST-CLASS, LATEST,
BEST MAKES and STYLES
BALL BEARINGS AND PEDALS.
PRICES UNDER ENGLISH COST,
INSPECTION INVI TED, AT
TOZER <S& CO.,
229 CLARENCE STREET.
HUDSON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
12tr UNEQUALLED SAFETY. EXTREME SIMPLICITY. tW GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
...
Til
1
if
X
5
SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. »3£" FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Kedfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators,


Useful Tonic fur Digestive Organs.
93 Cou.tNS STRKKT East, Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—l have carefully examined the
samples of itavarlun Hop Hitters which yon
sent to me. They contain ■>ome useful tonics and
stimulants for the digestive organs, and appear to
be quite free from any deleterious ingredients.
Possessing these qualifications, and being palat-
able, with a line aroma, their use will doubtless be-
come universal. I have already recommended
them to several of nay patients. Wishing you the
success you deserve,—l remain yours truly,
GEO. LE FEVRE, M.D.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘ take eheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘ labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your every-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ or drinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ nation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“If you are In the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitter* is what you need.
“If you are J, and your blood thin
‘and impure ..else feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
‘ room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeakNervousMen
a
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood iu
THE MARSTON BOLUS.
.Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervon* Debility and
Physical Decay isumfortnly
Buccessful because based on perfect diagnosis,
uciv and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52 Castlereagh St., Sydney
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers, on the above contract. Long
job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents, the newly-married
and those about to marry, may obtain much
valuable information, which may prevent years of
suffering, by simply sending a stamped addressed
’ to C. C. W., Box 766, G.P.0.,
envelope for reply
Sydney.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
t.ho most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
W Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President—P.O. Box 673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11 53 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
JamesLawson&Sons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Comer of William and Boomerang-Streets.
NEW DESIGNS IN BEST WILTON PILE
AND BRUSSELS CARPETS.
BRUSSELS CARPETS at ss. PER YARD,
INCLUDING MAKING AND LAYING.
A Reduction of 20 per cent, present on
Stock,
INORDER TO MAKE ROOMFOR
NEW SHIPMENTS
NOW LANDING.
DR. SCOH’S ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSHES,
I
of Pure Bristles, not Hires, Elegantly
Carved, and Unbreakable.
Eaoh Hair Brash has the same elegant
'pi, and contains, the same electro*
magnetic power, the difference being
■nly in the size. Each (a handsomely boxed
accompanied bye, silver-plated compaßS,
by which its power can always be tested.
They have ’won their way to royal favor
in England, being cordially indorsed
by the Prince and 'Princess of Wales,
used by the'. King of Holland and
Prince Bismark, and written upon
by the Rt. Hon.W. Gladstone, and
are nowbrought tothe notice of the
Australian public. They cure
by natural means-will always do
good, never harm, and are a
remedy-lasting for many yearn
They should be used daily in
place ;ot the ordinaiy hair
sign
From
Rev. Dr. Bridgeman,
Brooklyn.
Gentlemen, I have
never before given a tes-
l tiunonial.but am willing
1 to eneourage the use of
Aan honest remedy. 1
a am so pleased with your
hair brush that I deem
3 it my duty to write you
9 recommending it most
£9 cordially. My hair,
tjjj about a year since,
Iwj commenced falling
/I out, and I was rapid-
dll ly becoming bald;
fin but, since using the
m brush, a thick growth
■ of hair has made, its
'ft appearance, quite
equal to that which I
'’W had previous to its
V falling out. I have
■ tried other remedies
V but without success.
I After this remarkable
f result I purchased one
I for my wife, who has
' been a great sufferer
from headache, and she
finds it a prompt and
infallible remedy,
A. C. Bridgeman, D.D.
Trom s
The Mayor
of Saratoga.
It always cures
my headache with
in a few minutes.
A beautiful hair n
brash, well worth the
price, aside from its
curative qualities. „
J. U. CHAPMAN. %
From the
Venerable President of the
N. Y. Life Ins. Co.
I suffered every morning for years from head-
aches • vour brush relieves them at once. I heartily recom-
mend it MORRIS FRANKLIN.
From the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Wife suffered for years from headaches; your brush cured them at _
once : it has also cured several friends. I use it to remove dandruff »
it works like a charm. My wife was getting bald ; it stopped the tail-
ing hair, and made a now growth.
GEO. THORNBURG, Little Rock, Ark.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
Nervous Headache in 6 minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the SealpJ
Promptly Arrests Premature Gr&ynes*. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe thi Weary Brain.
A BEAUTIFUL BRUSH! LASTING FOB TEARS!
Honey Returned if not as Represented.
We will send either size of these celebrated Brushes, post jpaid, to any part
of N, 8. W. or Queensland on receipt of price named, with Is. added. Re
mittaftee can be made in Cheques, Drafts, Post
y-t S ZD fmir.nonnp ifl PnplnanH V
Office Orders, Stamps, or
\
nr '
Currency, and if an extra four-pence is enclosed, we will guarantee safe de-
livery by registered post. Or request your nearest Chemist or Fancy Store-
keeper to obtain one for you, ana see that Dr. Scott’s name is on the Box.
Mo. 1 Hair Brush, 6b. (ML
Mo. 2 Hair Brush, 7s. 31,
Mo. 3 Hair Brush, 9s. 61
Mo. 4 Hair Brush, 11s. 63.
Mo. 5 Hair Brush, 13s, 63.
pall Mall ElßOiric ig^ociation,
64 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
F. 0-Box 221
'Cheques can Ist CrsaiedlUnion Bank of Australia.
I Send for Circular of Dr, Scott 1 8 Electric Mesh Brushes , Corsets , <k Belts for Ladies & Gentlerqen
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N B —BOTD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
ALERED WILLIAMS, Manager.
Visit J. J. Ryan’s
DRAPERY AND CLOTHING ARCADE,
FOR CHOICE
Drapery, Millinery, and Underclothing, Men’s, Boys’ and Youths’
Clothing, Hats, Ties, Shirts, &c.
8®- ALL FRESH, CHOICE, FASHIONABLE, AND CHEAP. COME AND SEE.
ADDRESS :
J. J. RYAN, Drapery and Clothing Arcade,
760 and 762 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET ONLY.
YANKEE DOODLE
• - * •••
rasi
°'*SONBc SO*
EJ<
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
,r ■ -
m?
:v
L COIiQUE foR „
—■ T o B * c c ° -—<£
YOX TOPULI !!! This mighty power has built the DIX SON’S great Tobacco Factory. How ? The
voice of the people declaring the YANKEE DOODLE and CONQUEROR Tobaccos their own,
demanded the supply— Dixson ard Sons responded—and hence a Tobacco Factory having no enuaJ in
the Southern Hemisphere, and consuming the bulk of all the Imported American Leaf lobacco.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Hyimn to Humbug.
VERSES UNTO VICE.
ORANGE MEMBERS AND ORANGEMEN.
’Tis said that, in Australia’s early days,
Some Scotchman noticed with admiring gaze
The waving grass of Bathurst’s rolling plain
Green with the influence of sun and rain:
Fair was the prospect—well might he content
Rest with the gifts a generous soil had sent—
Well might he thank St. Andrew that his lot
Was cast on such a highly favoured spot.
But, no: his so-called patriotic mind
Yearned for the thistle he had left behind
When leaving Scotland, so he sent for seed
And through his paddocks sowed the cursed weed.
Strongly it grew-such stature ne’er before
Had it attained on Scotia’s rugged shore.
Great was his pride to note the autumn gale
Rear its winged seeds -but soon, so goes the tale,
Dismal forobodings triumphed o’er his soul
To see his nursling grown beyond control.
Now from each district where the weed has spread
Continuous Imprecations seek the head
Of him, impelled by vain and selfish thought,
Who to this land lias such an evil brought.
Great was his folly; but, still, not so great
As their’s who, seeing Austral’s peaceful state
Torn by no difference on points of creed
(Tho’ worshin differed then, men’s faith agreed)—
Men aiding Churches, not for sake of strife,
But as a means to nobler, purer life —
First introduced to m ir the prosperous scene
Fierce faction's badge of orange and of green.
When Englishmen, in sixteen eighty-eight,
Forced James of York, their king, to abdicate,
Tho Orangemen were leagued to overthrow
The power of freedom’s most relentless loe;
And well they fought in the Usurper’s cause
To save their land, their liberties, and laws.
But in this new Britannia none need fear /
To lose the liberties which all hold dear;
Yet, still, the Orangemen live by pretence
Of guarding rights which are their own defence,
And strive that base religion to promote
Which prompts each man to clutch his neigh-
bour’s throat.
As children quake whon told that Bogie’s near,
So there are Orangemen who really tear
They may be forced to wear a Papal yoke—
So join the Lodge to foil a phantom stroke;
But there are many who, with viler aim,
Gain their own ends by trading on the name
Of loyalty, and this ingenious dodge
Prompts most of those that join an Orange Lodge:
And yet they count some good men—as a rule
One man fn fifty’s neither rogue nor fool.
And yet these men oft by their votes prevail
To turn a close election’s wavering scale;
The man who with their dictates most complies,
No matter what his creed, they patronize;
He who will sink each patriotic thought
To do their will, is sure of their support:
Their will may be condensed to one line’s scope,
“ Get billets for our sons, and, blank the Pope! ”
Would that I could in capitals denote
Those who have purchased thus the Orange vote:
Would that my verse could show whatgames are
played
By some of those who thrive by Orange aid!
But I must hold the censure in suspense
Till libel-laws count truth as good defence;
Must pass in silence all the past career
Of many “ things ” whom Orangemen revere;
And, as 1 may not write unless to laud,
Must pass unnoticed here the “Past Grand Fraud,”
And let the praise of Murray and M‘Coy
Send through their frames a thrill of holy joy 1
Nor may I speak of him, “ Pride of the South,”
Who in the Assembly sits with closed mouth,
And ne’er unveils to elevate mankind
The mighty workings of his mighty mind—
Reft of Ambition’s spur, his one desire
Is to obtain the berths his friends require;
To help his country he has no design,
But favours friends with billets on the line.
As oft in troubled sleep we writhe with fear
To see some dream-born danger drawing near,
And with an effort cast off slumber’s chain
And find ourselves in safety onoe again,
So did this country, for long time oppressed
By tho-e whom Orangemen esteemed the best,
Wake from her sleep and break tlmOranpe spell
When Henry Parkes and his supporters tell.
How are the mighty fallen! Where are they
Who once had power the listening crowds to sway?
Where is John Davies, who was once so well-
Beloved by every Sydney L.O.L. ?
With Humbug’s wings to height of fame once
soared,
But now he’s kicked from an Insurance Board—
(’Tis said his leisure hours he’s using well
By making “ hats ” and learning how to spell.)
Where's Dr. Renwick ? gone back to his pills ?
Let’s hope they ’re better than his Forest Bills.
Where’s Tombstone Roseby ? now no more sbaDl
roll
That lofty speech that showed the lofty soul.
Where’s he who heard the “Murmurs of the
Stream'? ”
Where’s Watson,with his Wool Taxation Scheme?
Ah! though Sir Henry still contrivos to gain
A complimentary Excursion train —
Though dismal Watson just contrived to beat
A better nuin for the last vacant seat—
Yet from them both the power they loved has fled,
And now they lie, politically, dead.
ISHMAEL.
Tom Short.
Tem Short was a cobbler, s j deft at his trade
That the shillings rolled on him in plenty;
And so brilliant a prospect in lito was displayed
That he married and settled at twenty-one.
His married life differed from most married lives.
For, before seven winters were over,
He’d successively married and planted five wives
Decorously under the clover-beds.
He married no more. Having buried his cares,
Ho was getting along like a cherub,
Till be fell, one fine day, from the top of the stairs*
And damaged his system—O, terribly 1
Of course he was tenderly carried to bed,
And they seDt for an eminent doctor;
Who said to the nurse, with a sh ke ot his head,
“He’s a gon'-r!’’—which fearfully shocked her
nerves.
When the cobbler heard this, he said, “ Since it laser,
I desire you the parson to bring, too;
For, when I go to glory, I’d ju&t like to know
Which, of all my late wives, I’m to cling to
there?”j
The parson was nuzzled, but not so the nurse;
For she said “I maintain hard and fast,
That, quote as you will from your chapter and
verse,
A cobbler should stick to his last.” See ?


THE
MIGNO||
IFlaos.©. n
'
1 i
fc
m
FAMOUS
Bligrnon
3?IL^-ILT©_
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
its introduction Our competitors have no doubt
dono their level best to rival us— blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies-in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its n?Ae is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
J^?^& Catalo ? ue * with full description
oi THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON" AND GO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE. 1
MOULTON’S
FRUIT
FRUIT positively cured by MOULTON'S
we can i i e mean cured, not merely relieved, and
‘lisarmninH° Ve . w ia t sa y« There are no failures and no
MOUETON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
PEP^ta.F SNI 1 S3 ’ P re vent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
heartv DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
TriE RT non LI YF’ regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
known mrii. ir The . and Best Family Medicine
They arf/al ?, 7 T eget^ble ( ' macse of the Extract of Fruit).
J re as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
801. l Everywhere, Price Is, 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshalls
tonic nervine
A Sinn REGISTERED.
™™F’« C F5 TAIN > & SPEEDY CUBE for Ner-
ihat snS General Debility, and all complaint!
TcfotWho fr iS m ack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
ApnetJSr w Indigestion. Loss of
Cornc]ainVfl F T ma 6 < >^ lsordftrs * Livfr Kidney
an^aoothinn^'tf 8 °/ Vit ? l Power ' R y tonic
for e *° cpl lt at once removes all craving
other nW 0 Py.|ts richness in phosphorous and
TONIS NBRV elements, MARSHALL'S
the whelJr nourishes and gives vigour to
RoiePronS ? yi, tern. 4s. 6d.. or 355. a case.
Manufac P tnH ore,M^ RBHAT - ,r ' BROTHERS, M.P.B.
10s and nonsuiting Chemists, 104 and
SPitt-strW*™ 4 ’ 1 " , near Wvde Par *- B y <*n«y, and
’vOTB Btr€Ct ’ Circu] ar-quay. TAKE NO BUBBTI-
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, witli the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Ilair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled ; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Bricher writes from Kirby, 0..
July 3,1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. 1
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation 1 should have been
entirely'bald.”
.T. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
1 speak of it from my own experience, its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sure cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Faiiibairn, leader of the
celebrated “ Fairbairn Family ” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which lieeting
time procureth, I have used AVer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
iu the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing frem 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of mv liair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and'l was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regular] y used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
, PREPARED BY
Dr.J C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell ; Mass.
Sole, by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS’ MACASSAR OIL pre
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair; it con
or ra, , r l eral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is esDecialh
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ XALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free fr©m am
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pro
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a glossy and per-
manent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros., E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
debility,
LOSS OF VIGOUR,
Nervous and Heart Diseases
EFFECTUALLY CURED.
Patients really desiring skilful curative treat,
meat, should consult
Doctor W. R. PARKER
whose wonderful skill in treating these complaints,
places him amongst the foremost speciallists of the
age; certainly first in Australia. The most coil-
fidential relations between the Doctor and his
put tents are observed.
CONSULTATION FREE.
69 HUNTER STREET,
Three doors from Macquarie Street
m
T S BOOT!
r
equalled
,/SYDNEY
J EITHER FOR
LPRICE or quality)
■LttORCESI
fcOLUf
BLEND
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.— Thin la a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
j.ining’ fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
ji taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
igents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
Scott
WHOLEBALB
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
BCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
W MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
J.
TURNER
ROBINSON & CO. S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ABSORTED
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTB to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect flit
The Federal Consultation Company
Herewith submit their new programme on the
MELBOURNE CUP of 1884
Run first week In November.
Capital.. £36,000, in 35,000 Shares of £1 each.
Promoters * J as. McLeod, Esq., Melbourne ;
Hy.Ford.Eeq ..Sydney • P. fnprara, Esq., Perth :
W J Erskine, Esq., Adelaide ; J. F. McElain, Esq..
Brisbane ; all genuine names, and men of good
d v nfr ‘ Pro “ oters guarantee to take up first
1000 shares, and have already subscribed £lOOO.
I3P 1000 PRIZES GUARANTEED.
Plan of distribution.
100 Prizes Of £50.. £5OOO
200
25..
5000
12..
800
5..
101 0
im
4..
400
Total
£25,000
P J n h m e l u S a . r . e respectfully requested to join the
Piomoters in the above enterprise, the bona Me
of which is unquestionable. Money promptly re*
turned should any subscriber wish to withdraw
before the drawing. Drawing held 80th October
next. Conducted publicly in presence of Share-
holders; representatives of Press admitted. Result
posted, and advertised in Town and Country
Journal. Send P. 0.0. Notes, Cheques, and™
extra for reply and result (registered if convenient.)
vy rite for Prospectus giving fuller particulars. En-
close self-addressed envelope. Address all Letters
and make all Orders payable to the Secretary as
under :-ROBERT RAMSAY, Commission A
405 George-street, Sydney.
ESTIMATES G-IVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
3
c
MM
O
n
r
MS
*5!
&
339&541..Ge
»j;(®s
r opposiT€i»osi f wice.
or'sgs eeopfie STJ*eei
IliiTe
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED
UTlxo XSeliaTble I
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMIHGr, Merchant & Importer.
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES. ETC.
CARDS,CHEMICALS. a Pn
W.JOHNSONfeSONS Ipa^
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD
1 STOCK
IMPORTERS ® '
%
E ■
Jt:
%
■ It
« »
uwiiiii; ;i!
B*™* i {v'H
a*.-** # »
111
_*V
BW
’4\V
™ er, *l S: ' S H O f


PEARL CEMENT,
The Greatest American Prize-winning Discovery of tlie
19th. century.
ARTICLES MENDED CANNOT SE SEPARATED-
AMEEICAH NOVELTY CO.* 203 Pitt St. (Only) Sydney,
H/VVETRIf D ALL
. KINDS
U.THIS IS THE REST®
Sf ,'JC7
'■im .-■rr
iff
ms
SAVE THE PIECES!
Use Pearl Conent, .the
greatest American
Discovery of the 19th
century—never known
to fail —for mending
China, Crockery Glass,
Wood, Ivory, Leather,
&c. Price Is. per bot-
tle. Sold everywhere.
Send to the American
Novelty Ci, 203 Pitt St.,
Sydney, for whatevei
you may require
whether the article is
in theCatalogue or no.
They deal in nearly
everything.
Toothache Tincture, the
best remedy known for
fiving instant relief-
'rice Is bottle; lsod
by ßend*2d. stamp for
272-pagcd Catalogue.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
203 Pit* Street. Sydney,
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EY
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
Printed and Published by TiMßoLUrri News
I paper Co. (Limited), 84 •Pitt-it. Sydney, N.B.W.
With a laudable desire to give his new
sonfrire, the distinguished impresario, Signor
M'Manus, a tashte of his powers as a dramatic
“cricket,” Thady O’Kane has just dropped on
M‘Lean’s Opera Company and the “ Woman of the
People” in a style calculated to make the crowd
long for an opportunity to saw Thady’s head off
with a broken bottle and throw it down a well.
First of all, the party who played Bairetrong, the
champion “ drunk, ,r excited feelings of the most
intense disaust in the minds of the Charters
Towers Slite by his milk and watery portrayal of
the character. Bairetrong, it appoars, oame on as
the genial, maudlin’, sholly-goo -f’ler boozer, and,
instead of dancing round the stage with a gory
razor in one hand and a Yankee axe in the other,
while he spat fire, and gibbered at the barber’s-
pole-coloured snakes that were squirming about
on the floor, he simply sat down in the Woman of
the People s lap and offered to “shinga csm c
shong ” if she went round the corner and got him
a gill of rum in a ginger-beer bottle. Naturally
enough, this made the experienced Towers people
feel sick, and, after crumpliag up the insipid dead-
beat in his own particularly peppery style, Thady
indignantly declares he " knows scores of citizens
who could give him points in a good old drunk
and then beat him hands down.” The giddy
** Woman ” herself, came off better, as we learn
she acted “with a natural ease and grace that
would make one almost behove she knew all
about it, or, as Ramee would say, she was aufatt ”
(sic). The rest of the performers were decidedly
too thin, however; for Thady winds up by observ-
ing: ” On the whole, the * Curse of Drink’ is not a
success!” (Brother Pioton, of the Never-Touoh-
Its, might make a note of that lot for the benefit
of those who consider the “Curse” to bo a big
boom.) “Seme parts are passable, and a great
many others are objectionable. We would not
advise its repetition here, though it may possibly
hit the taste of a one-horse bush town.” Gramni-
vorous Nebuchadnezzar I is this the contemptuous
way the alligator-fed heathens talk of that drama
in which the ger-rate ter-radgedian sent parsons
howling to their prayers, delicate females into fits,
and caused strong men to swoon away (to the
pubs, before eleven), and does the libelous wretch
still live who dares to designate Sydney, the Queen
of the South, as a “ one-horse bush town ?” After
that, let us have a suck-in edishin of the Deluge.
“ Demned hard work, this, Schneiss. Bad
air. stuffy room. Aw, make haste, let me out, aw.”
“ Vish, mein son, dat I had times as easy. Dis way,
mein son. Jemini, pull ’em up somefat higher.
Easy times, mein son.” “ Easy times—aw I At it
in office up till four. Now on it for two hours.
Easy ? Demned hard, I say. You’ll twist my neck
off. Schneiss! Demned but I’ll knock you down 1”
“ Soft, mein son, soft. Dis is a new rig. It must
strike the eye. Ef you gave me to place leetle
card but, no, mein son ” “ Decidedly no.
Not for your shop, Schneiss. Hurry, confound
you; I’m getting suffocated in here. Shove on
whatr you like, but hurry.” “It is new style, mein
son, and it must strike the eye to match the model
in the vindow. Put out dis arm. Jeminil It is
goot. Turn now. Ah, mein son, it is not yet as I
vouldvish. Let me put on dis coat. Jeminil I
tinks dis is right. Now, turn round; valkover
dere. Jeminil” “ Get me the hat, Schneiss.”
“Take time, mein son; plenty time. Be always
slow and sure. Dat is goot. Step over dere. Dat
does. Ef I mash moneys as easy, mein son, I’d be
a rich man dis day. Step over dere. It is goot.
Now, dis hat. Vait, vait, no hurry; don’t be in a
hurry, mein son. A leetle, just a leetle, over dat
side. Step over dere. Valk over here. Step over
dere. It is goot. How many friends you ex-
pects to meet dis day ? Mind, mein son, from
the Post Office to Swanston-street. Two hours,
up and down; slow, stately. Dis is the newest
style. Dat linger is filled veil in dat glove. Step
over dere. Step over here. Step——•” “Oh,
hang it, Schneiss, I ” “Jemini! Mein son.
don’t lift your arm dat vay. De garment don t
allow it. I charge for damages. I stops damages
out of five bob. Jemini, you fly in do face of for-
tune. You be poor man yet. mein son, ef you
don’t vatch. Step over dere. Step over here.
Valk over dere.” “ Will that do, Schneiss ? It
is goot. Two cigars 1 Jemini, it is waste, but it sets
off. Stretoh arm dis vay. Cane in left hand. Btep
over dere. Step over here. Dat is goot. Now
mein son, fen peoples say ‘Nice togs,’ you say
‘Schneiss,’ und so on. Five bobs fen you come
back. Five bobs in two hours by de clock. Jemmi I
fat a lot of moneys. Ach, mein son, you vill be a
rich man von day. Five bobsl Jemini! Dis vay
out. mein son. Five bobs! Joost tin k, O Jemini!
Now, what is all this? It is only an Australian
Childe Harold who works in a Melbourne banking
house for £9O a year, and who, as he is at present
honest, tries to make a trifle extra on Saturdays
by doing the block for two hours, at balf-a-orown
an hour, in the oapaoity of a tailor’s model. When
you see him so spotlessly perfect in his attire, and
leading the newest fashions, do not blame the
young man. His nose is in the air, but Schneiss
won’t pay him if he doesn’t carry it there. His lip
is curled, but Schneiss insists that it shall be so.
Altogether, he is the picture of a coxoomb, but,
kindly reader, remember what we have told you,
and bo humane. Childe Harold is trying to be
honest.
We have often thought to ourselves what
a capital joke it would be to give the whole of the
understrappers of the Civil Service carte blanche
and a free pardon, to print and publish a record of
all the grievances, real, and imaginary, which
they consider exist in their different departments.
How the talented, but friendless old deadbeats in
the “ Lands,” who have grown bald in the service
through so many younger but well-connected
noodles stepping over their heads, would revel in
the tales they would unfold, aud what a yell of
triumph and revenge would burst from the
throats of the Siberian slaves who have groaned
so long under the despotic sway of ex-Czar Wil-
kins. From time to time we are requested to
publish little growls from divers departments;
and it is gratifying to know that the most satis-
factory results have followed. Even as a mild
answer turneth away wrath, so also does a gentle
newspaper hint work more real reform than a 10-
volume report of a Select Committee. Apropos
of this, a party who signs himself “ A Grasser
writes to know why it is that the vouchers for
over-time, travelling expenses, &c., which are sent
in by the lower classes of Telegraph officials are
sometimes held over for three months, while those
of the upper ranks can, if necessary, be rushed
through in as many days. As a sample of the
inconvenience arising from this injustice, he cites
the case of an operator who, having travelled a
considerable distance to take charge of an out-of-
the-way station for a few months, wassubsequently
compelled to writ-* to his chief as follows: “Sir,
I returned from Cooreenyrangaeoomboobilah
Station, and sent in my vouchers for expenses
amounting to £37 14s. 6d. ten weeks ago, but have
not received a cent up to the present date. 1
therefore beg for a fortnight’s leave of absence to
enable me to place my family in the poor-house,
prior to my being incarcerated in the debtors
prison. Yours obediently,” &c. This trouble evi-
dently lies between the officials of the Telegraph
Department and the Treasury, and is wholly inex-
cusable. And this reminds us that it has now been
decided tiy the Cabbage Garden authorities to re-
duce the charge for telegrams there to Id. a word.
The Servioe Government does not pretend to say
that the business done justifies reduction—as a
matter of fact, the Post Office and Telegraph De-
partments are worked at a loss of £lOO,OOO a year
but they very properly look upon telegraphic com-
munication as a matter of great importance, and
one which should be so worked aB to come within
the moans of all. When the question was first
mooted, the Telegraphic officials loudly howled
that it would be impossible to do the extra work,
that the loss to the revenue would be simply ruin-
ous, and the whole world turned upside-down by
the disastrous innovation. Nevertheless, Mr. Ser-
vice sees his way clear to grant this great boon to
the general public, even though it may cause a
few of the said public’s servants to earn their
salaries; and, now, we fail to see any just cause or
impediment why Mr. Stuart should not follow in
the steps of Mr. Service.
One hundred millions of pounds of butter
are sold annually in New York city, and of this 50
per cent, is bogus. The “factitious” article is
either “ butterine ” (t.e. an admixture of lard and
good butter, half-and-half), “suine” (which eogaes
under the head of butterine, but contains more
lard), or “ oleomargarine ” (which is made of grease
of any and all kinds—tallow, lard, cotton-seed, pea-
nut; and other oils are sought for and obtained
from all souroesand from all countries). “These
fats are deodorised and neutralised by treatment
with nitric acid, mixed with milk, cream, or poor
butter, and churned. The aGid in this composition
is, of course, very deleterious, and in proportion
to its quantity is the resultant injury. Many of
these produots can searoely be told from genuine
butter, even by experts, and tests by microscope
and sulphuric acid are essential to determine their
true character.” But the most delightful revela-
tion contained in the offloial document, from which
we quote, is that “stakes are driven into the
sewers at London, from which stakes a fatty de-
posit, left by the current, is scraped every day,
and, after proper treatment, this fatty deposit be-
comes dairy butter." Ughl Ouf! Already has the
romance departed from our muffins: gone are the
voluptuous softness of our crumpets, and the ap-
petising odours whloh in days that are no more
announced the arrival of our genial midnight
friend, the Welsh rabbit. Never again shall the
oily yellow wavelets, which in days of yore gaily
shimmered on the sky-blue tide of our milkless
44 oyster ’’-soup, over the watery grave of the soli-
tary speeohless mussel in the spoon—recall fond
memories of the happy times wherein we wan-
dered with a round and ruddy Patience over grassy
slopes where mild-eyed kine chewed the cud among
the primroses. Ah, those were pleasant times!
After “proper treatment!” we see that Henry
Ward Beecher “ thinks that the idea of the resur-
rection of the body would present a lasting objec-
tion to the Pagan custom of burning the dead.”
But, as we likewise notice that an eminent New
York offloial states that 44 oleomargarine is made
of grease of any and all kinds,” we may, without
irreverence, be permitted to presume that very
soon there will be a general resurrection, anterior
to the final one, and that all who die and are
buried, especially adipose people, will bo rooted
up at midnight by the body-snatchers in the inter-
ests of practical science, as represented by Messrs.
Suine, Butterinp, Oleomargine, and Co., unlimited.
The outlook is cheerful. If we allow the poor day
of our departed mother-in-law to be committed to
earth with the idea that we shall “ see onoe more
In the lily’s pallor the cold white face of the dear
This pretty garden oqstume, with half shawl and sun-bonnet, is most bocoming.
The bonnet is composed of blue sateen, and has a f[?]m peak but soft crown. The lace
is arranged round the peak in rather large cascades, and is fulled round the ourtain.
Bows and strings of satin ribbon to correspond.
dead, and trace once more in the violet’s purple
the surging life-stream, which has ceased to run,”
we shall probably make a mistake, for some of the
good lady will chemically re-appear, not in the
daisies, or in the lilies, but in the butter-coo'er.
On the other hand, if we burn her, we ll get rid ef
her, once and for all, unless it should hereafter
become worth the family baker's while to adulter-
ate our morning roll with phosphate of lime from
the graveyard. The Yankee’s allegation as to the
conversion of sewer-grease has dispelled our life-
dream, which was to have our bread buttered on
both sides.
Here’s an item we’d like to get rid of be-
fore the heat of Summer comes upon us. The
shrieking sisters of the Cabbage Garden Maternity
Aid Society are just going it proper over there,
and war to the knife has been declared against all
their enemies. A few days ago, a deputation con-
sisting of five of the most able-bouied and glib-
tongued sisters on the Board (“shelf” seems the
better word) placed themselves under the protect-
ing wings of the Rev. Dr. Bromby and the ltcv.
Davy Jones [!] Hamer, and waited on that chaste
Susanna in pants, old Salvation Army Graham
Berry, in order to induce him to “ push the legis-
lation already promised, which deals with the
question of seduction, and make it a criminal
offence to seduce a girl under 18 years of age.” A
gentle, timid maid, Miss Sutherland by name,
opened the ball and fairly knocked Graham over
the ropes by declaring that, out of GOO cases dealt
with by the Maternity Hospital, not more than 200
of the mothers were married women, and in only
twe cases out of the whole of the charges of this
gallant six hundred had the putative father made
any monetary provision for his victim. This re-
dounds greatly to the credit of the noble pair of
pa’s in question, and we believe nothing but
the extreme modesty and retiring disposition of
tho thoughtful couple prevented the Maternity
matrons from presenting them with a silver cradle
each, accompanied by the usual illuminated ad-
dress and purse of sovereigns. Something had
evidently stirred old Berry’s coffee up tho
wrong way that morning, however, for ho at once
bluntly asked Miss Sutherland if the deputation
could say “ in how many cases deception had been
Sractised by the men, and how many cases were
ue to lust on both sides I” This was such a par-
ticularly peculiar query that it broke the Maternity
mongers up completely, and it was some time be-
fore they could find strength enough to reply,
“they couldn’t”; and, in fact, they had never
given such a horrid, hateful, monstrous, cruel, un-
feeling, libelous question a single thought. This
made the old man go on worse than ever, and he
then drew attention to the fact that, in the very
first case of seduction on record, the woman not
only sent a good man wrong but afterwards meanly
tried to shunt all the blame on to the head of a
darned old snake. Furthermore, he pointed out
it was a well-known truism that accidents hap-
pened even in the best-regulated families, and,
therefore, £reat allowance should be made in the
case of persons who had no legally-ordained
families Whatever, and, as “ women will wander
and men will stray,” no bill would be introduced
this session. That sent the prude Penelopes
off on their little pink ears immediately, and
now the Melbourne daily Press is chock full of let-
ters from indignant matrons and trembling maids,
proposing unheard-of punishments for people
who certainly would never dream of doing them
the least harm. One Mrs. Dugdale (Phoebus! what
a name 1) began the row with a delicate suggestion
that “the surgeon's knife ” should be used to pre-
vent such occurrences; and, after a long series of
similar proposals, “A Mother” writes to intimate
her opinion that these wicked men should be
branded oa cheek and forehead. The latter plan
was fairly tried by the Saxons, but, so great was
the gallantry of those old Don Juans, that, after a
six months’ reign of branding had elapsed, it was
found they had no more vacant spots on either
forehead or jowl, and so they kicked up their heels
defiantly, and shouted, 44 On with the dance —let
joy be unconfined,” as usual. Mrs. Dugdale’s sur-
gical little plan was strictly enforced by the
Ancient Egyptians, and yet, from Rameses the
king down to Rabahakeh the brickmaker, the
whole caboodle of them were steeped to their
snuff-coloured snouts in the fashionable vices of
the day. Perhaps the most efficacions remedy ever
thought of was that in use among the chosen
people of the rouseabout days of Moses. In those
days, the editor of Deuteronomy tells us, the
seducer was compelled to pay the injured lather
fifty sides of silver, and to marry the girl for life.
That invariably crumpled the gay deceiver all to
pieces In the first act, and the Melbourne Maternity
crowd would do well to rub the notion into old
Berry’s head at their next hallelujah meeting.
Late developments of journalism in Ade-
laide are somewhat startling. The S.A. Register
has now become a semi-religious paper, and, before
anything, the accredited organ of the Young Men s
Christian Association. He that is not holy must
depart from the staff. The only son of Belial
tolerated was the man who did the dramatic busi-
ness—an erratic heathen who had studied his sub-
ject. But, in future, no person will be allowed to
deal with the ungodly stage unless able to answer
dodging questions in the Catechism; to refute the
propositions of infidelity: and to repeat the Lord s
Prayer backward or forward, or each way endwise,
from the middle at any hour of the day or night.
The office is now entirely surrendered to the de-
vices of a young person who has attained the
degree of Canon in pietosity. On assembling in
the forenoon the reporters are gathered to the
library and the Canon offers up prayer. Then each
person is questioned by the Canon as to what be
has been doing through the night, and whether his
prescribed orisous have arisen to tne throne of
grace on awakening in the morning. The Canon
administers rebukes or delivers commendations as
occasions require, and deals unto every stenc-
grapher even that which the stenographer deserv"
eth. Then the appointment book is placed on
the table, and every man receiveth his allotted
portion. The conversation is carried on os much
as possible in Scriptural phrases and lines from the
Wesleyan and Congregational hymn-books. Tea,
prayer, and revival meetings are first marked by
reason of their greater importance. But even
these make way for all entertainments given by
the Young Men’s Christian Association. If the
Canon cannot himself attend, that reporter who
has best answered his spiritual adviser's questions,
and is generally reckoned to be leading a blame-
less life, receives this blessed privilege. Pious
interjaculations in the Canon’s script fill up the
pages in thabook, as thus: “Read Grindgod’s fare-
well, Bathurst— Selah. 4 The Lord bless and com-
fort thee and bo a Guide unto thv right hand
pencil 1’” “Y.MC.A. (Hallelujahl) committee
meeting, Boarhome — 4 The Lord is on my side, I
will not fear what man doeth unto me. . . I laid
me down and slept and rose up again, for the Lord
sustained me.’ Yea, even so, Lord. Even in this
graceless newspaper-office can thy servant hood-
wink the boss!” Then, near the end of the ap-
pointments: “Races. Old course. (‘ Why do the
heathen so furiously rage together ?')—Cook.
* Let him that thinketh the totalizator standeth
take heed lest it fail.’ ‘ Not unto us, O Lord; not
unto us, but unto Thy name be the glory.’ Cut it
down as much as possible.” “Theatre. The
smoke of the bottomless pit ascendeth for ever
and ever.’ —Egremont.” A son of Belial —[Memo,
to sub-editor: Cut this man’s copy down into com-
monplace, and erase his ribald jokes.] “Astranger
in our borders, 1 0 Lord, how long V We do not
cai*e to reproduce the extra fervid samples of the
Canon’s art. These usual entries will serve to
show the spirit of South Australian journalism at
present. Every person engaged in the Register
establishment Wears a 9-carat gold medal (bought
from a Christian at 18-carat price) bearing the
mystic legend “Y.M.C.A.” and, onpain of the in-
stant “bullet,” has the right hand tail of every
shirt and the left hand side of every collar also
marked with this heavenly sign. The Canon as
well furnishes all important correspondence under
various disguises, his latest nom de plume being
“A Layman.” Ada Campbell is shaking the
foundations of prim piousness and formal hypo-
crisy to their bases. Her lectures are attended by
crowded au fiences, composed of people who have
become weary of the Register’s gods. She lately
delivered a most admirable and interesting lecture
on the social evil. Quoth the Canon thereanGnt: —
“ Some of the remarks made by the lecturess on
this subject are unfit for publication, and the S.A.
Freethought Society, who sanctioned this exhibi-
tion of female immodesty, cannot be congratu-
lated either on its sense of decency or its regard
for the interests of public morality.’ But the
Hon. B. T. Finniss, a cultured gentleman, whose
mental equal exists not on the Adelaide Press,
thus deprecates these pitiable slanders and their
enlargement by “A Layman”:—“The Chairman,
Mr. Henry Taylor, has written in reply to certain
strictures in your paper, and I have much pleasure
in endorsing all that he has said in that letter, and
in adding that I think all right-minded people who
heard Miss Campbell on that occasion, and they
are very numerous, will approve the verdict he
has given in her favour. For my own part 1 can
safely and truthfully certify that the . lecture
which has drawn forth the animadversions of
your paper and the venomous effusions of a writer
styling himself ‘ A Layman,’ was an expression of
the soundest wisdom and morality, clothed ih
language eloquent and effective, I ever heard
in any church or public hall where ministers
of religion and professors of moral philosophy
are accustomed to deliver discourses for the in-
struction of their hearers; nor do I believe any
; professor could have delivered a more instructive
1 lecture on the subjects she elucidated. She clothed
a difficult subject in words of the highest educa-
tional refinement, and not one single syllable left
her lips which could possibly offend the chastest
ear. It wiil be seen at once that I deny the truth
of the malicious statements put forth by ‘ A Lay-
man.’ For they are not only absolutely false but
they betray a fanatical, malicious sentiment
which, if snared by any sect in South Australia
and openly proclaimed, would bring such a sect
into merited disgrace and contempt. If such a
sect really should exist, let South Australians
guard against the danger of admitting them to
get the upper hand in political power, or the fires
of Smithfield and the tortures of the Inquisition
will be repeated in this province, even in th6so
civilized days of civil and religious liberty and
boasted enlightenment. There is a certain ring
about some of the expressions in the letter of ‘A
Layman’ which shows that he is a dangerous
fanatie, and one to be shunned. Thus, he says—
• I will say that it would be better to dote on these
trifles, and ignore our unfortunate sisters, than to
preach the doctrine that they should be left alone
in their sin, to live lives of misery, and at last to
go down to hell.’ I leave these words to tell their
own tale, and to justify the judgment I have past
on the writer in styling him a dangerous
fanatic. He, too, has usod language in his letter
as applied to Miss Campbell which, I should
imagine, no Press editor would knowingly suffer
to appear in the columns of his paper—words of
an indecent character—never uttered by Miss
Campbell, or by any writer who has ventured to
address a South Australian public in print. They
are too outrageously immodest to be repeated. I
could say much more in condemnation of 4 A Lay-
man.’ But, I hate falsehood and oppression,
whether adopted under the garb of religion or
civil tyranny such as is exhibited in the effusions
of 4 A Layman.’ I trust, although I condescend
to address such a writer as 4 A Layman,’ 1 am not
placing myself on a level with such an one.” In
the issue which contained the lies concerning Ada
Campbell were three columns devoted to a de-
scription of the funeral of a Bible-Christian par-
son, who had never done anything good, bad or
indifferent, to deserve more than a half-crown
obituary advertisement. But this particular Bible-
Christian had, unfortunately, begot a political ac-
cident, which, in a "lucky” moment for other
people, was able to appoint itself Chief Justice
Ah, brethren, behotd I say unto you what a lovely
and noble institution is the “free and indepen-
dent” daily Press!
Decline of Man.—Nervous Weaknesst Dyspep-
sia. Impotence, Sexual <‘*>bllity, by “ Weils'
Health Renewer.” At druggists. Moses Moss and
Co., Sydney, Agents.


HRE COUNTRY milk.
[ * SUPPLIED by the
h^Food
£ Ice Co., Limited,
upon as being
LWAYS PURE .
tree ti-nm om the country districts,
otn city contaminations.
tk H Butter.
■ ■ cither
frnm a ?u tactured at their own denSt
6ru dairy distri(;ts t>ea t Gutter-makers in the
daily, Sundays excepted.
3i<Srt: ehv* g is made. Butter by
ut >, dsuJy . BuburbSt three time 4,
Food & /ce Co., Limited,
STREET.
lAS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
tlav e your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Paraeola re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
■ _ 641 George Street,
j Brickfield Sill, between
; Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
i Parasols made to match eos-
-1 tum©n Repairp Tiftntly exp
V,
■srm
T> ULL-DOG ALE.—IT is
r» nr condition alone in BULL-DOG AD£i
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion P Comm on bitter crude beers are made very
fine' but no other brand has the same mellow
venous character, the fullness on the paste
and the great keeping qualities of the BULI^
against traders ivho fo r a the tb K*e°of °mi *extra
Wflt reprint the common beers
s? sr 1
BROTHERS & CO, _ ___
PEAPES and SHAW
b Respectfully invite inspection of their
'tty SEASON’S GOODS,
k(//g s > , as follows
“ ancl Children’s Winter'lllsters, Dolmans , Mantles and Jackets,
comprising- a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows :
%
I, *">'l2B L M TAILOR-MAOS
'^-toisutneHa
ULSTERS.
Do£?! en ’ 8 u >Bters, from ss. 6<l. to 30s.
‘•lit,;" uolm«„ pL ~ l ™m os- 00. w»
i, Ulsters, New Cloths
b, Tin/ ’ • wßujrs, «ewuoi»n»
ACKe TS, in NEW FANCY MATE-
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. '
L WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTERS from J2s. «d. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jers - y Jackets
Brooatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
PEAPES and SHAW.
S and SHAW.
Standard Tweed Clothing.
have now oncn for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
Vl DKmw' ; READY-MADE CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
°f the various classes of sroods enumerated below.
Vv\W cut l ° ng >
l C « Tw iSa CLOTH, 255., 308.,
tevS LSTERs ’ lined wool ’ 3 ° 8 -’
&!> an? JSP C K-OVERCOATS, 635.
h m^ ton^°vercoats * suitable for
a m% eSB Suit, f2s , 505.. 555.
TWEkd SAC SUITS are
CTJ T> FIT, STYLE, and
‘be Surpassed lor Good Honest Value
-
**- 50s„ 635. the SUIT.
» c|Coat4n(i y est r)og>
° (West of England Broadcloth),
'i!lu 00d Black Doeskin, 255.,305.
Bhrunk and weU mad<? *
i° l fen ei; rro£ 21s. each
()v?ch CElAurv 8 ’F* 8, 6d.and 1 (is. 6d. per pair
° ™ wNl ® 2ss.
Pk,? jSSING GOWNS, in Felt,
Ut h 30s. to Scotch Kuicker, Quilted
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH COATS and CAPES. Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterpropf, Sown Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING _
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
ana All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 525. 6d.
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, 10a. Od ; the
Suffolk, 12s. 6d
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
BLACK' DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES. 7s. 6d , Bs. 6d.
95.6d,105. 6d.,115. 6d., 12s. 6d ;
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats and Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
S haDe
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
p a £s and SHAW,
C( ->HGfc street. 9
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
*2
Sz Son’s
He
Hdf
r °m all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Aie liTo'W Open.
Hi
c CLEERY’S hotel,
of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
V* T (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
* BAR UP-BTAIRS.
:■
o oor
Q U ~s\
: -
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
' ~"" W into N.S. therefore their Twist and
staild FIRST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
*^Tt£>J~ nqi)eror ' Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
and early BIRD hold a high position.
CO vA tnDort ® M ot Pinos Cia-nrs, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
; v H:F.itoR” tobacco wouks. hype tark. Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LBDIABD’S SHOHI HOttN BOURBON.-1
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the ottenei
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNO & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
TRACE
MAnK,
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS,
extracted from the bark and comb
of the fir tree, consisting of Pine
Wool Wadding, Oil, Extract for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
failing remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and all nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Solo Wholesale Agents,
S. HOFFNUNGr and CO., Sydney.
None genuine without trade mark and
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
v ~ Chargesstri oWy moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
all dental operations performed
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, -who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflcient s.s. lilawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TTan-d-ertaJser,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
SWANN’S PILLS
(the great world-famed Liver Remedy)
arc the best, and safest aperient
in the world.
They clear the complexion,
and remove all diseases dependent on a
deranged state
of the
Secretive and Assimilative Organs. •
SWANN’S PILLS
{i, , are a certain cu re for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Nervousness, Pimples,
Constipation, Depression of Spirits, Sleepless-
ness, Foul Breath, Headache,
and
Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
SWANN’S
sw \nN’s
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
suitable for both sexes ;
gentle, yet thorough in their
action.
Stigar-coatcd,
and
Easy to Take.
BUY NO OTHEK.
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
Price Is., 25., 4s. All chemists and patent medicine
vendors.
SWANN’S PILLS.
ray*- Head the following Certificate of Mr. Fred.
Wright, M.P.S., Professor of Chemistry, and the
well-known Lecturer to the Technical College
“ This is to certify that I have examined ‘ Swann’s
Pills ’ and find that they do not contain any poison-
ous or hurtful drug. They are free from mercury,
nnd are composed entirely of vegetable ingre-
dients. I consider them a most valuable aperient.
’‘Fjreo. Wright,
“ Sydney, June 19th, 1884.”
‘ Drug Analyst.
m
Sri
•.r.rrtrjrrt.'.r.r?.:
3jS3Sf W{i
T
lEY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
■ l’rom 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house lor
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 pItT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for s» remeasuring
forwarded to any part of the colony
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
%ar THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. ILvdla/tru-redL
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE.
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It Is bottled in bond for Ex*, r-rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule,
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
8
Sole Agent foi
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ C7LEBKATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality are no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREAR& 3 in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
tsr c. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. H. .Ariell & Co.^s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 601 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
}4, *4, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTING HAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, <Sc.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kant Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing- all the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
[NORRIE and MAYER.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 319. RENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSES. W. H. PALING & CO.
AFTER CEFORE
Copyrighted .
iIOUSTAGHJandWEISKEES.
Boyd’s Beard f'.lixirdid this, and J
| xoill do it on cither bald head or
bare fare, Jf'o'.ces henry Mous-
tache in fromS to 4 weeks and never t
fails 2* ,000 young wen already
wear full beards , having used 1 to
EEFOnH AFTER
s£l
Copyrighted
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect. Packets Is. Gd.
each, 3 for 3*. (id., post paid, sent under cover, free from obserr’ation.
Address, Frank Douglas, JSole Agent , Box 730, O.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE.
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind nil oK customers and the
public generally that he has a largre assortment of
Drawing:, Dining:, and Red Hoorn Furniture, also
Ollice Furniture, a)J of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
R
OBERT BUTCHER & CO.
(Late William Lour),
|3 w~ WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, BYDNET'
Oountry Orders receive prompt ati; ntion,


OolcL Jewellery^
(REGISTERED.)
I V
%
•WATCHES,
Special Novelties, &c.
30s.
Country Orders punctually attend^
TXTXX.&JT I!
ASK YOUR
Palace of Act, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Asr. B, Ail branches ol Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B.— BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
SALE EXTRAORDINARY, FOR
MEN’S, BOYS’, & YOUTHS’ CLOTS^
NOW ON AT BOTH
J a J. FBYAN’S CLOTHING
PRIOR TO ALTERATIONS TO THE HAY MARKET SHOP-
- . i — .ft* fJtW *
Come Early and Secure Good Fashions l»le Clothing »<* r J
J. J. RYAN, 760 George Street, Hayi" af
And 46(5 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Fruit Markets.
ASK YOUR. GROCER FOR
J. S. FRIT & SOM'S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of < ho active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or norter.— Lancet.
HONESTY iS THE BEST POLICY
liORK-p
OKW
iioRN-i:
'%*ie*£et4sS&
rUnZUJ
It in of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be .carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverave should com-
pare LOENE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will And a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LOKNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
Hiaaiars
Prize M edal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE UdE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition,
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
. 147 YORK STREET.
GILBEY’S silverstream schnapps.
Gilbey’e Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
Til (IKK It. & £Q,, Sole Agents,
ftW Gecrere-street, Sydney,
WALLACH BROS.'
3KTEW
FURHITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARO SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES "WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac,
J.T GAYEN’S
Sobrv’op'i And Geneva.
A. MLIV md SONS'
Edinlm.gfl Pale ■■ <
T. JONES and CO.,
65 MACQUARIE-STBEET SOUTH,
-
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
; MAKERS.
General
JOINERS,
BHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS^
Auctioneers,
A k ck. Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
IK and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYD-NET.
Agent;' for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
BLAKE’S
STEAM
H. P. GRE6O
17 PIT T sTB
sydNl^
ARE SOLE AGENTS f' o]i
, „„d to ai
and have in Stock
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMP 8 j, pfl
TANK OR LIGHT se# v
MINING PUMPS Tf
l CV^ A
COMBINED AIR & Olß c
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMP 9
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING 7 J
- J*
SEND FOR PRICES AND
CATALOGUES,
PAINTS.^
4
OILS.
P# 1
S'
O PAI
Office: 330 G 6 %T?°'‘
STORES: Ml^
*a r n’.r
p uttprv*
LATE ROWJ ANBS & LEWIS, " .
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Waters, f tartiials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
iff*
BALLARAT, M ELROURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTEiR STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/o Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also , another Gold Medal for Liqueurs,
Si
