

IWIY OOMEU k SORS,
PALACE
THE POPULAR DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENT.
1,0 only Universal Providers in the Southern Hemisphere.
ALL OUR goods, and give our customers the full benefit arising therefrom.
J
9
HORDERN AND SONS
EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY,
Have the LARGEST and BEST-ASSORTED STOCK of
O-00E>S
. in the Australian Colonies.
Haymarket, is celebrated for the Best and Cheapest Boots, Overcoats, Mantles,
V Flannels, Linens, Calicoes, Woollens, Merinos, and all kinds of Dress Goods.
I Ji - FURNITURE, CROCKERY, HOLLOWWARE, of the best English manufacture.
Avj; The very BEgT y ALI JE EOR THE LEAST POSSIBLE OUTLAY.
WHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Emporium, Haymarket, Onlf,
SkSAL PROYIBERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin
NEW SERIES


Gompßefn Ffisstcgraphic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
■mm
hsiii-s
IMPOR
%
xi
I
lip
..■
Mi- * y '~g."
W }-A
SB iV: ; oy
/' : r ?m
%
• \
I
‘
v :
H ■/ I
'■ ' ••• -V-.:
‘ * V?
vmk
MU
-SS
IPSPB
'• AMERA'3, 1 ...
A. ■ C /A R D K iCHE (VI IC A 1:3 :
n.imU tor ■ '"-muww.
>' ‘ W JOHNSON ,( Vii N f ‘. ' j
NIT R. SILVER AND CHLOf-UiOLO
H. L. SUMSMERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
EL L. STTMMEHFXELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
®* Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with. Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
J. C3r® JEiEsbjrlaoK^c^'mr^
470 fiEOEGS STBEST, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
EXTRAOKDINAEY SALE
OF
WINTER HOSIERY MNP MILLINERY.
Hew Stock off Ladies 9 OSewes, Laces, and Fichus.
The Choicosff Stuck of Fancy Soocls in Sydney.
Parasols, Usuiirellas, Bags.
Parses and Fancy Ware.
W. W. GATES, Smperter, 193 & 195 Pitt-sireet
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
WATER’S system of importing' all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
prioes, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS. LACES, GLOVES, AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
mm
<£W™ Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great suosess We have
row both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged. * *
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
AVHOLESALE PRICE*.
W- -W. CATEE,
3.93 and 195 PITT STS3ET.
XMtajrtlxi. Keesliaiij,
STAB AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
f fIHIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c,
ft Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits
The most Com!ortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Handers and Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up.
M. A. BmWM & 00.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
2(5 0 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-btreet.)
From the Strand, London,
Champagne
& Ocfs.
SiY
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDL & Co., Lcndoau
Jiole Agents for Reidsieek & Co., Reims,,
1®“ TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE .FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY*)
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Rt-eech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &e. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship. «■
N.8,-f ole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborns ; also Angelo Bor-
dom, gf f RreBQia t Italy.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & W;
11, MACED, ui HUDVIBR B®»
397 GEORGE STREET,
BS and US YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENG^ 1
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENBLAKB-
IMPORTERS OE
Engineers* Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship
, Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Ag^ iC
Implements.
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY. ir ao d B cr<f,flllf
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting-
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers-
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY. ga* 9 '
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines.
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-p
Enjtilslt and American Agricultural fmisle*!® eats ‘
a flO 1 *
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow .Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Hors© 'ThresW 09 '
hakes, lieapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shell©* >
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant* . , io gg, V& rois
COACH Builders’ Sundries.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnis
Galvan 1
z ad,
C©rr«<
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Car, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron
and Plain Iron ; Solid Moiled £ J oista.
Squatters’ Supplies. . , &n $ '
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Kaddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing
Machinery-
Builders’ Ironmongery. rters’^ 00 '
Locks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in C arp
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND
3897 Slrast, Sydea©#*
CO.
WRIGHT, HEATON ft GQ.
(LIMITED).
GEMEBAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom house
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.!
BRANCH OFFICES.
Socthkrn District, N.3.W.:
Goulburn
Yass
liowninfc
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rock
Culcairn
Cow&bee
Narander
Huiong
Carrathool
Hay
Wbsmrn District, N.S.W.S
Capertee
Bathurst
Blarney
Orange
Wellington
Bubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Northbrn District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth Brewarrina
Gunnedah Tamworth
Narrabri Uralla
Walgett
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and Sohth-Westkrn Linb:
Brisbane Veulba
Roma Cambooya
Dalby
Cbntbal Lins;
Rockhampton Capella
Bogantungan Comet
Emerald
Northern Limb:
Townsville Bavenswooe Junction
Charters Towers
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
Wl. MCULLOCH * CO., LIMITED.
%SST Agencies ip ail parts of the world.
GUINNESS'S EXTRA STOUT-
B
-4-
'.’.V
m
3§
: V
m
0 e
The B EST ALE and
SOLD BY ALL STOB
Vir
AGBNT2
fm
far* the; new south $$ (U
INVESTMENT COMPf *,
INVESTMENT
Capita l
Allow Interest, as
and UPWARDS for _
CENT, on sums from
rAl '’ a^/mWf
?? H iovt^fS o 0 6 fW,
, ill to olif 0 ® 9 ’ ..rtsr
VytUAI J_ . \J I I OH i - * ■ * ‘
Branch, Payable on Dera
aB# 1
I. v.
a'
Vj
TfcW f%t®4 V<*
it selected .’ th „ *
brewing’s D u
inef^L C w € oC ' 1
C CO?, 8o?e AS’ aai *‘


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 65.—New Series.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 9, 1884.
Prioe—6d.
Imperial Unity.
The Bulletin .
SATURDAY, AUGUST 9, 1884.
Once again, with the irritating persistence
of an importunate creditor, the question of
imperial federation turns’ up and solicits
consideration. This question was supposed
to be laid some years ago, when Englishmen
—some regretfully, with indifference others
—concluded that the project was a dream-
fascinating, it is true—but still a dream. But
someone has again rolled the stone from its
sepulchre, and once more the scheme is
brought forward to embarrass British
Jingoes and render colonial ones enthu-
siastic. Ever since the great war of ISTO-fl
altered the European map in Germany’s
favour, and taught the nations that their
safety rested on the military training of the
whole male population, the influence of
England—the only front-rank power which
has not aocspted the principle—in Conti-
nental politics has been steadily declining.
This was only to be expected, as, owing to
the incubus of militarism at present restiug
upon Europe, where the clank of the sabre
is hoard from Moscow to Madrid, the respect
of (ach nation for its neighbour is gauged
by the number of trained men that neigh-
bour can plac« in line. It is clear that the
State which declines to disturb the current
of its national prosperity by passing its sons
through the ranks cannot expect the same
deference from its perfectly - organised
neighbours as if it had some millious of
bayonets to give emphasis to its wishes—
cannot, in fact, have its loaf and eat it. The
contemptuous manner iu which Continental
military experts speak of the offensive and
defensive powers of the British Islands,
with their handful of troops—scarcely food
for one park of artillery—prevents any mis-
conception on this point.
* * *
This question of declining influence is at
the bottom of ail aspirations for Imperial
federation. It is not the only motive power ?
but it is the principal one. Englishmen look
across the narrow strip of sea separating
them from a continent in arms, and say>
“We will not imitate these people; but we
possess unlimited terxitories under various
skies—dependencies already well through
their infancy, daily growing in importance,
aud possessing the raw material for puissant
uatious. Let us strengthen the ties binding
us to these youug giants. Let us form a
confederation the like of which the world
has not seen.” Absentee colonials, dazzled
with the glamour of the conception, echo
the cry, and so the federation phantom once
more eiuergies from its tomb and glides
across the political stage
# • *
There is one consideration that British and
colonial advocates of the scheme conveni-
ently ignore. Admitting, for argument’s
sake, that federation would benefit the Eng-
land and Australasia of to-day, would it be
equally beneficial for the Australasia and
Britain of twenty-live, fifty, or a hundred
years hence ? These periods are but short in
the life of nations. Fortunately, a great
nation exists whose history enables us to
give a decisive answer to this question.
When the Vogels, Services, and Parkeses,
with the smaller fry who follow in their
Wake, dwe'l rhapsodieally on the advantages
of Imperial urnity—when one tells us that
would be better for English-speaking people
if America were still a province—another
that he hoped before dying to represent a
Victorian constituency in an Imperial Con-
gress sitting in London—and a third that his
desire to have the fragile thread binding the
mother and her offspring rendered adaman-
tine, is because of his love for Old England—
we are forced to one of two conclusions :
either they have not considered the subject
in its most important bearings, or, like the
Augurs of old, they are inwardly laughing
at the charlatanism they outwardly pro-
claim.
* * *
Federation means proportional represen-
tation in a contral Parliament with an elec-
tive upper house. Either this or nothing.
We may dismiss as idle the trumpery sug-
gestions of “advisory councils” having no
power to enforce their advice, and “ colonial
life-peerages ” whose possessors might be
useful as court mummers or at Lord Mayors’
shows, but could in no way influence public
policy. Colonial members would either enter
the House of Commons or an Imperial con-
gress superior to it. In the latter case, the
GERALD MASSEY, POET AND PHILOSOPHER
Commons would become a local assembly
with jurisdiction limited to the British
Islands. Upon the newly-constructed legis-
lature would devolve duties similar to those
of the American Senate and Congress—
questions of war and peace, foreign policy
taxation, etc. It is just here that colonial
politicians—their essays and speeches on the
matter deprive them of the right to be con-
sidered “ statesmen ’’—lose touch of their
subject. They deal in high-sounding gene-
ralities of “manifest destiny,” the “integrity
of the Empire,” and “trade follows the flag,’
out when they condescend to come to details
the fascinating project collapses like a child’s
house of cards. For it should always be
borne in mind that new and comparatively
unlimited countries increase in population
and resources far more rapidly than old
lands where numbers are already pressing
on the means of subsistence. The progress,
arithmetical in the latter, is geometrical in
the former. The “advisory councils” (Sir
Henry Parkes’s suggestion) which might
satisfy the ten millions of Canadian, Austral-
asian, and African Britons of to-day would
be derided by the twenty-live millions of the
next generation. Representation in propor-
tion to population is therefore the only
sound foundation on which this Imperial
edifice can be built. Let us see how it would
have worked with the Americans, if the
Union Jack still floated over New York.
* * *
Suppose, then, that America had not se-
ceded. It may be urged that in that case
there would not now be sixty millions of
people between the Atlantic and Pacific sea-
boards. This would be a dangerous suppo-
sition, for no further proof would be want-
ing to show that the country’s development
was retarded by her European connection.
This alone would demonstrate the necessity
for independence. But, granting that sixty
millions lived south of the great lakes, ac-
knowledged Queen Victoria as their sove-
reign, and sent representatives to London.
Of the 680 members now in the Houso of
Commons, about 4:19 would be American,
and 251 British. How long would the House
of Lords, or the Throne itself, last when
difficulties arose between them and a House
two-thirds of whose members sucked in
Democracy with their mothers’ milk? How
long would India be retained if its retention
was burdensome to the Americans, or local
Government for Ireland withheld? What
would the odds be in favour of Free-trade,
or against the battle of Dorking being fought
by troops from the Potomac instead of the
Spree, landad to compel Englishmen to re-
main in the Union ? Further, as the conve-
nience of the majority would undoubtedly
be consulted, how long,would St. Stephen’s
instead of Washington be the seat of Govern-
ment ? The polioy of the Empire would
certainly be dictated by American rather
than British wants. In some aspects, it is.
true, these changes might be beneficial.
They would, at all events, put an end to the
pernicious principle of hereditary Govern-
ment, aud stop for ever the shameful drain,
on the public purse to support supercilious
idlers, who find relief from the ennui of life
by running down and drowning plebeian
occupants of boats not quick enough to get,
out of the way of their steam yaehts. But
how would Englishmen like it ? This view
of the case—a reasonable view, wo submit—
never occurs to the Australian agitators who
clamour for “ closer ties.” These thoughtful
people want life-peerages and the entree of
Loudon drawing-rooms during their little
day, heedless of tho sleepers they are piling
across the political track of their children.
But English statesmen have weighed the
difficulties, and consider them —as they are—
insurmountable. Mr. Gladstone expresses,
the profoundcst doubt as to the stability of
political ties between countries separated
by long stretches of sea—especially when
those countries had, or thought they had,
divergent interests. All tho arguments—ex-
cept that of population—against the political
connection between England and her lost
colonies, will apply with tenfold force to
that between Britain and Australia within
the lifetime of people now living.
* * *
In an English magazine, an ingenious
writer, whose views on confederation coin-
cide with those of the Victorian Premier,
advanced one reason in favour of unity,
which for attractive simplicity could hold
its own in any company. He discovered
that Corsica sent representatives to Paris,
and failed to see why the British dependen-
cies could not follow suit. We know the
size of Corsica and of France. We know,
too, the area of England and of the colonies.
His argument was conclusive, with one ex-
ception. He forgot the converse—France
sending representatives to Corsica. Yet this
is precisely the position in which the colo-
nies will stand to England by and bye—the
position in which the United States in a
measure stand now. It may be that Service,
Parkes, Vogel, and Co. consider popula-
tion, extent, distance, and diversity of in-
terests as merely minor matters do not
care what country contributes the prepon-
derance of members, so long as the Empire
holds together. But Englishmen have to be
consulted. To think that they would give
up their historic traditions and tone down
their insular prejudices—as they would be
obliged to do in the near future should
federation take place on the only possible
lines—for the purpose of placing their de-
stinies in the hands of squatters from the
Darling, or raft-proprietors from the St.
Lawrence, is a supposition too wild to be
entertained. It is when we consider the
matter in this light that we understand the
truth and humour of the British statesman’s
retort: “You Australians are not content
with governing yourselves and having a con-
tinent to experiment upon; but, bless you
you want to come here and govern us.”
There is another consideratiou, too, whichi
does not deal with the future but with the pre-
sent. We have seen that as the Empire stands
to-day, no scheme of federation would be ac-
cepted, except one allowing proportional
representation to the colonies, and eliminat-
ing the hereditary principle. Suppose
Imperial unity established to-morrow on
ttmse lines, When tfie smoke q£ tUe guns


Tub Katks or Bubbchjptiou to Thb Bulletin
are— For ono year, 345.; half-year, 13a. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d. —In advance.
Thb Advertising Katks are ss. per inch i
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements orderGd for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
15 per cent.: For 53 consecutive insertions, 35 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
TIE PDPUIAR mm
BRIAN BORU
NOTE. —YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
Brian Boru
WHISKY
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, ami WHOLESOME.
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
0* PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6s. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
G. W. ROBERTS 1
Single Dottle Departnint,
MABXBT BTEBBT,
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
0. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
Sd..
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot he surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome or all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNBLISH WHIIiKI
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
la. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 6d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
JHarkct Street, Sydney.
proclaiming its birth cleared away, the
question of “ways and means” would he
found at the top of the programme. Eng-
land requires 250,000 white troops and sea-
men at present, and £80,000,000 a year tosup-
port them. The Empire would require at
least 300,000 in time of peace, and probably
double that number in war time. Austra-
lia’s subsidy would be about 20,000 men, to
be increased to 40,000 during hostilities, and
liable to be called away to defend any point
threatened. For the support of the army
and navy alone £2,000,(W0 a year would be
required from her at present, to be increased
indefinitely should war break out. And
what would she obtain in return? New
railroads through her huge territory; the
opening up of mineral lands scattered so
prodigally over her surface? By no means.
Her influence on the question of war or
peaoe would be inappreciable. But she
would enjoy the privilege of havinc her
towns theatened, and her young men drafted
away to keep the Russian out of Herat, the
German out of Holland, or the Frenchman
out of Belgium—to defend the passes of
Afghanistan, or meet “rebel” fanatics iu
the Nile valley. What is it to the people of
the United States who holds Constantinople,
or dictates terms of peace at Paris or Berlin ?
What to Australians, if their country were
strong enough, as it should be before the
century eloses, to hold its own against all-
comers? There is but one concession that
would be freely accorded her —a concession
dear to the Heatons who go home to mas-
querade as Conservatives. She would be
allowed the privilege of subsidising foreign
and indigenous paupers, of portioning their
legitimate off-shoots, and providing snug
places for their love-children. It is against
privileges of this kind that the drowsy giant
of English Radicalism is chafing to-day.
There would be no chafing if our conserva-
tive federalists had their way.
* * *
It is the opinion of most advanced thinkers
that, at eertain stages of development, it is
the fate of all great colonies to fall from the
mother tree like ripe fruit. The opinion is
reasonable. At present, the various Austral-
asian Cabinets are guided by men whose
hopes are centred in the lands of their birth
rather than in those of their adoption.
Within eertain bounds the aspiration is not
an ignoble one. The chief charge to be
brought against these men is that they do
not see far enough ahead—have not accu-
rately guaged the influences that are grow-
ing around them, and which they cannot
control. They would commit their adopted
country to a course directly antagonistic to
natural laws, obedience to which is yearly
becoming more imperative. They cannot»
or will not, peroeive the fact, so obvious to
others, that, if there is one considerable
portion of the earth's surface adapted by
Nature for the full development of a con-
geries of peaceful democracies knit together
under a central Government and uncon-
trolled in their political orbits by distant
communities, that portion is Australia.
A Great Logician.
The Rev. John Osborne is a broad-minded
man, and highly endowed with the logical
faculty. The standards of the Wesleyan
Church were too narrow for him, but the
standards of Freethougbt are too broad. He
does not believe in tbh Devil, and he re-
gards it as oppressive bigotry that people
who are orthodox in that article of faith
should refuse to endure his ministrations and
should seek to close his mouth. But he has no
patience with peoplo who go a step further,
and not only deny their Devil, but negative
the idea of a Hell. On Sunday last, Mr.
Osborne gave a sample of bis peculiar
mental constitution. He is reported by his
own organ, the Daily Telegraph, to have
said that "he had no complaint to make
against honest men who conducted astraight-
forward and honourable warfare against
Christianity. On the contrary, great ser-
vices had been rendered to pure religion by
the doubts and inquiries and keen criticism
of honest sceptics.” This is very elegant
and liberal. At least, it would be liberal if
it were spoked by (say) Dean Mahony, or
Bishop Barry, or Rev. Dr. Jeffebis. But its
liberality when enunciated by Mr. Osborne
is open to some qualification. As a matter
of notoriety, it is but the other day that Mr-
Osborne was striking a heroic attitude,
•with a flavour of martydom thrown in, as
an “honest sceptic,” who was conducting
“a straightforward and honourable warfare
against Christianity,” as defined by the seot
to which he belonged. “ But,” Mr. Osborne
is careful to explain, “decently-clothed
soepticism is one thing, and the sans culottc-
ism of Sydney Secularism is another thing.”
That is to say the scepticism of the Rev. Mr.
Osborne is decent, but the somewhat greater
scepticism of the Rev. Dr. Hughes is inde-
cent. Hext, Mr. Osborne urged his hearers,
to “respect all outspoken manly thought,
however much it might offend their preju-
dices or convictions, and to give free scope
to all honourable activity.” That is to say,
however Mr. Osborne may offend the
prejudices of (say) his late congregation
in York -street Wesleyan Church, it is a uni-
versal duty to listen to his outspoken,
wanly th ought and honouraljlu activity;
but when it comes to the opposition shop
over the way, where they profess to deal in
slightly higher flavoured scepticism than he
keeps on hand —why, down with them for
creating a nuisance and stinking in the nos-
trils of all who like orthodox savours. As
Mr. Osborne puts it: “As they valued their
country’s welfare, let them do all in their
power to crush out this system of Secularism
which had proved itself, by its tyranny, its
treachery, and its falsehood, to be undeserv-
ing of any other treatment than we gave to
desolating diseases.” In short, heterodoxy,
to the degree which approves itself to Mr.
Osborne, is manly, straightforward, and
honourable; but anything which goe s
an iota beyond that is tyrannous,
treacherous, and false. Mr. Osborne's
heterodoxy should be respeoted, and
even fostered, because he is an honest
sceptic and is doing “ great service to pure
religion ”by his doubts and inquiries. But
other people’s scepticism is to be “crushed”
because it is not (in Mr. Osborne’s opinion)
honestly held. Now, there is only one method
available for “crushing” heresy, and that
has never yet succeeded. Such as it is, how-
ever, we can learn all about it in Fox’s
“Book of Martyrs.” It consists in the ap-
plication of the Inquisition, the rack, the
thumb-screws, the dragonnades, and the
stake, or of such drastic substitutes as
modern society can be persuaded to resort
to, or tolerate. It means, anyhow, perse-
cution for religious opinion. This is what
Mr. Osborne dares, in the nineteenth cen-
tury, to advocate—always with the under-
standing that the York-street Wesleyans are
not to be allowed to persecute him for his
heresy. Certainly, Mr. Osborne is a great
logician, and his spirit is instinct with the
glorious principles of religious toleration.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Au Instructive Return.
Mr. C. H. Pearson (Melbourne) has, it would
appear, made a grand bid for celebrity. The
things he did these years past, piled one on
another, did not make a pedestal of many cubits
But great things are sometimes accomplished in
one night, and in a night, it would seem, Mr. Pear
son has gone very high up. We are made aware of
it by the bitter wit of one Melbourne paper and
the loud railing of another. On a recent night ir.
th 6 Assembly he asked that there should be laid on
the table a return showing the names of all public-
houses in Melbourne, together with the names of
their owners and lessees, and of all the persons
holding a bill of sale or a mortgage in connection
with them. The fate of the motion was that
Messrs. Mason and M'Lollan raised objections, and
the Speaker set the request aside for the present.
It is expected that Mr. Pearson will repeat his rt*
quest in another form; and it is because he tried to
get this return and because he will again try to get
it that he Is worried with wit and rifted with rhe-
toric. The rhetoric is better of its kind than the
wit, and, therefore, we attach a slice of it: “ Here
we find this learned er-professor,” the paper goes
on, “grandly proposing in the Assembly a motion
which, on the face of it, violates every principle of
that personal freedom which the Constitution we
live under was expro.sly framed to bestow and to
protect. Under the impulse of an unreasoning
fanaticism he wants to pervert the representative
Assembly into a Star Chamber, the Government
into a close committee of inquisitors, and the
whole body of the citizens into grovelling slaves.”
A man who has tried to do that, and who declares
that he will yet do it, must be about the most re-
markable personage south of the Equator. If, on
the other hand, what Mr. Pearson has tried, and is
again to try. to do is simply to acquire for the
public a piece of information very necessary to be
known at the present stage of public opinion, then
the wit and rhetorician referred to should take in
washing and get their wive 3 to do the writing for
the Press. And the motif of Mr. Pearson’s effort
shows that this is actually all he wants. . . •
There is not, of courses any objection to cer-
tain parts of the return asked for. The city
directory contains most of the items. What
makes the worms turn is that the public are to be
treated to the names, not of the nominal, but of
the real owners of public-houses (many of which
are known to be brothels), and to the names of
those who hold bills of sale or mortgages over
such bouses. It is believed largely in the com-
munity that many a loud-praying plate-cadger
through the pews on Sunday derives a substantial
part of his income from high rents, which the
tenants give for what are practically houses of ill-
fame. It is believed as largely that others, pro-
fessing equal whiteness of soul, are specially will-
ing to accommodate this kind of tenant because of
the freedom with which he bleeds high percent-
ages. It is believed that professional abstainers
often make a good thing out of being at the
bottom of a grogshop, and it is believed—and that,
too, on extremely good authority that the
revenues of one line church are annually aug-
mented by the rents it receives from a public-
house erected on part of the church premises. Mr.
Pearson’s motion, if assented to by the House,
goes directiy to achieve a good result. Trade
customs are secondary in importance to the puri-
fication of public opinion and the unmasking of
wide-spread hypocrisy. Either those general be-
liefs in the charlatanism of the professionally
righteous will be exploded, or the professionally
righteous who own or by mortgage or bill of sale
make profit out of the 70 houses that are known
to bebrotbels, or the 140 that are suspGcted to be
brothels, within the city of Melbourne, will have
to let this part of their earnings slide ; or, as an
alternative, will .be forced to drop the plates on
Sunday and give up leading the “ Haymens ” from
the corners of the pews.
The two leading Freethinkers in New Zea-
land— M* rsrs. Stout and ;Vallance—have been re-
turned to the House of Representatives bythump-
ioK majorities. Both gentlemen are almost sure
to he included in the u-w Government.
Gerald Massey.
Respecting the notable man P°J*lgen£in
nnnrs in our front page, and who is at present in
tbfs city on*a* visit to Australia, we have a few
words in other portions of this issue. But * P e t r *
haps, the Attest way we can adopt to convey to
our readers an adequate conception of the
of man who is come among us, is by the follow
intr which we quote from an appreciative n °tme
in an English magazine:-" The boy was at work
in a silk-mill or at straw-plaiting when he ought
to have been at school. The progress he made
when he had set to work to educate himself was
miraculous, and at an early age he showed the
stuff that was in him. Thrown amongst Ihe
Men of 'Forty-eight,’ he with voice and pen
espoused the cause of the down-trodden, ex-
hibiting a Aery courage which was approached
by no contemporary in the same h fj£p°
Ernest Jones probably excepted. It was Hep
worth Dixon who ’discovered to tne word
outside Massey’s sphere the existence ot the
new poet, One day Dixon, caught in a shower of
rain, took shelter in a newsvendor s doorway not
a hundred miles from Gray s } nn , h^ 0 f, d .; n
standing there he was attracted by the liont page
of apublication, the title-line ot which (designed
and engraved by W. J. Linton) was represented by
“an airantrement ot bayonets and daggers.
Upon there appeared a poem which
opened thus
‘Fling out the red Banner! its Aery front under,
Come, gather ye, gather ye, Champions of
And nolf round the world with the voice of God’s
we've to reckon, oppressions to
The rain ceased, and D'J 011 went his way with the
words of the' ‘ song of the Red Hep l* f ~
ing through his brain. Some time alterwai ds he
called at the Athenaium o(hce, and found
amongst other books that had been ascent JL. 1,1
in for review a volume of Poems by Gerald
Massey.” Turning over the leaves in a cursory
manner he came upon
‘ Fling out the red Banner !
and paused. He had met with that before; and in
due course the review of Massey’s poems in the
Athenasum, which ’made him appeared. Subse-
quently Massey joined the sta.t of the Athenasum,
and for ten years wrote a considerable number of
ihe reviews of poetry which appeared in that
journal. It was Gerald Massey who penned the
notice of Jean Ingeiow’S poems, which made her
favourably known to the readers of the Athe-
N/kum, and therefore, as a matter of fact, to the
reading public all over the English-speaking world.
The poetical genius of Gerald Massey met with
cordial recognition from all quarters, some most
distinguished. Amongst the friends and admirers
which ‘Babe Christabel’ and ‘ Craigcrook Castle
won for him were Thomas Aird, Walter Ravage
Landor, the late Lord Lytton. and Charles Kings-
ley Aird and Candor published their testimony
to his genius. Kingsley, there is no doubt, chose
him (with Thomas Cooper) as the model tor tho
hero of ‘Alton Locke.’ Kingsley and Massey
were brought into intimate contact in connec-
tion with a co-operative workman’s association
of which the poet was secretary. Some of
Gerald Massey's Anest verse is to be found
in the two imnortant volumes published subse-
quently to ‘ Craigcrook Castle. We allude to
‘Havelock’s March,’ and ‘A Tale of Eternity;
but the magniAcent lines which abound in A Taie
of Eternity ’ were passed over with contempt by
the reporter reviewers, because the motif ot the
poem was rpiritualistic. The ‘ Tale ’ unfolds a
page of the author’s awful personal experience of
the phenomena with whicn be declares he had
been brought face to face for many years. No
notice of Gerald Massey’s career would be com-
plete without a cordial recognition ot his splendid
explication ef the ‘ Sonnets of Shakespeare. The
germ of this great work Arst appeared in the
Quarterly Review, to which Massey contributed
for some years. Many so-called literary analysts
had attempted to solve the mystery oi the Sonnets
before he undertook the task, but without suc-
cess. It was he who found the key and let day-
light into tho dark chambers of Shakespeare s
complex secret, a fact which German and h ranch
critics have not been slow to acknowledge.
•A Book of the Beginnings’ (the second part ot
which is entitled ‘ Tne Natural Genesis ’) is simply
the most extraordinary wora that has appeared in
this country, or, for that matter, in any other,
during the century, It is a book to be answered,
not sneered down; and he who essays to reply to
it must dive to the depths which the author him-
self has fathomed. Let iaquirers atter tho truth,
no matter what their creed or religion, read A
Book of the Beginning’ (with its second part,
‘The Natural Genesis’) in the spirit which
abides the words —‘ Prove all thmg’s: hold fast that
which is good.’ ”
Mr. Charles Bright has returned to Sydney
from New Zealand, after a very pleasant lecturing
tour through the latter colony. Mr. Bright has
secured the use of the Theatre Royal, and will re-
commence lecturing as of yore on Sunday next—
the subject of his opening discourse to be Free-
trade in Religion.”
The Sydney Bicycle Club’s champion meet-
ing is attracting the attention of not ooly Sydney
and Melbourne, but of sporting circles throughout
Australasia, and, in this connection, it may be well
to note that Singer and Co. have just opened a
beautiful show of their world-renowned British
Challenge machines at their depot, 85 Market-
street, where their Coventry workmen are kept
busy on repairs of every description.*
One good point about the Cabbage Garden
is the wonderful brotherly love which seems to
animate its pressmen. Not long ago, a member
of the Sydney quill-driving fraternity paid a visit
to Melbourne for the first time, and as he was
1 lunging out of Garton’s, Jonathan of the Akgus
pounced on him, and exclaimed—” Hello, Muddle,
old man; glad to see you. Come and dine with me
to-night, and I’ll show you round the city after.”
“ Much obliged, indeed,” replied the Sydney mao;
“but, unfortunately, l have just met David of the
Age, and promisee to grub with him. Come and
do » bottle ot fizz, however, and I’ll be glad to
meet you to-morrow.” “Oh, dear no,” returned
the AKGUS scribbler, as he turned away in disgust;
“if the Age fellows are the set you've mixed ui>
with I’m off. Good day.” Later on, the age hero
turned up, and in a stage whisper observed: “I ve
just heard that Jonathan of the Argus was ireez-
iag on to you to-day. Keep your eyes skirn-d
when you're with him. He’s no good; take my up
for that lot.” Soon after this, Damon of the D.T.
called Muddle one side, and softly said: “ Look
here. Muddle, you’re a stranger here and don t
know; but I can assure you you are damaging
your reputation with the respectable portion of the
press by mixing up with those age and Argus
ruffians ” And just as Muddle escaped from tho
D T. Damon, Pythias of the World angrily oo-
served- “ Well, by gad, Muddle, I thought you Pad
a little more self-respect left than to be seen even
in a 40-acre paddock with any swab that belongs to
the Daily Telegraph.” And so the game went
on, until at last Muddle went mad, and applied to
the police for protection from tbe whole of the
I Victorian press department.


“ THE POOR PLAYER."
Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession. 1
We see that Mr. Duncan Macallum is again
agent for an opera company—tho “ Royal Comic
Opera Co.” it is called. We wish Duncan luck.
He wants it. We have known him to be agent for
countless things, and they have all gone “ bung.”
jf he were agent for a wombat, it’s ten to one
that that wombat would die and leave Duncan out
of his will. Mac. was formerly, on dit, in the ser-
vice; but we don’t know whether it was the Navy
or not, since we have not told it to the Marines
Another crusher. It seems now tnat Pollard’s
name is Sullivan. We shall hear next that Bill
green’s name’s Verdi.. .tCyril Scott signed as
comedian with Bertha Welby. He will probably
accompany her to Australia Ellen Terry is a
gripper, says a TT.S. paper. She never walks, if she
can help it—preferring to run or skip.... Mr. Teale
Lingham, agent for Lila Clay's troupe of Female
Minstrels, has arrived in Melbourne. He is, accord-
ing to last accounts, still alive, though his name is
Teale Lingham. We cannot weil explain this
George Rignold, when he revived “ Amos Clarke,”
offered to let the people in for nothing. It is re-
/keL„.
* < 'rt i '
-/jTyb;* /f/O* Yen
(ntf~ ’S'a.Tct' c/ay
'A £i n fed acAi s%.e^.
tr
/.»/
Some Sketches at the Bicycle Sports.
ported that nobody came but a sweep, and be was
drunk. [Doubtless this is a libel.—Ed. B] [On
the sweep.— Author.].. ..Says the Adelaide L.V.G.:
‘Charles Liuri, junior, is to play Jacky—an
Australian (sic) aboroginal (sic)--in M. Mayor’s
Proposed production of Charles Read's (sic) ‘ It is
never too late to mend,’ at the Porte Saint-Mar-
tin.” From the tenor of this par., we suspect it
was written by an “aboroginal,’ or, if not, pro-
bably by the man who tunes the gridiron. By the
way, the L.V.G. was burnt out the other day, and
nothing but the formes and the issue before us
was saved. This circumstance must have stricken
ffrief in the heart of many an honest publican. We
are not compelled by Act of Parliament to say
Whether we allude to the saving of the formes or
-■the fire. ..Sheridan, with his “ Fun on the Bris-
tol” party, have taken Newcastle by storm, and a
telegram which has just reached us states that
hundreds are turned away nightly. Of course,
those people down in the City of Coals have been
reading The Bulletin. That accounts for it. See?
• •..Zulu Thompson has been doing big biz. with his
diorama in the Mauritius. His agent is again Phil,
otuart. Phil's proper name, we may remark, is
Bastard; and his dad keeps the Corporation baths
jn Adelaide. Philip is a masher, if you like, and
*8 much famed for the length of his moustaches.
••••We see that Pollock, Marshall's old agent, who
has got the Adelaide Academy of Music, has en-
gaged the Pollard kids to open the new hall in
August. The Adelaide Witlers gives poor Frank
(Towers (who has been playing at Garner’s theatre)
‘mice.” That journal has cheerfully borrowed
from us many of our little expressions; but we
forgive them. We regard the attempt of the pro-
prietors to endeavour to make their paper
popular as highly laudable....We remark that
Julia Merton is (or was) at Maryborough, play-
ing with what the paper calls “ the famous
Holloway Company.” — VVilmott’s Dramatic Com-
pany (all strangers (o us) have been playing we
mean comedy, in Auckland, at the T.R. Sims’s
“ Crutch and Toothpick” being the piece de resist-
ance (which is always associated in Joes mind
with theteariDgof apoliceman’s uniform). A Mr.
R. W. Rede seems to be the George Titheradge of
the company. If that Rede is bent—but, no! Bent
is at the Hall of Hiscocks Yes; and at the
Opera House, Auckland, “ Rip ” has given way to
“ Boccaccio,” which seems to be a go. Knight-
Aston gets it layered on to him And the
Empsons last (so far as we know—or care)
snowed at Bingera; and D’Orsay Ogden has
knocked ’em in Grafton with the “ Woman of the
People;” and re the Itatcliff-Rita combination
the Riverine Star says:—"lt is impossible (sic)
for us to criticise the entertainment, but all who
patronized the performance were delighted with
the sweet tones produced by Mr. Radclilf from the
tiute, and also with the singing of Madame Pau-
line Rita. We very much regret that only one op-
portunity was given to the public to listen to the
flautist’3 music.” We are not surprised at that
critic finding it “impossible to criticise.” Yet,
when the wombat circus conms along, it will get
an artistic dissertation! The Empsons, Miss
Collins and a Mr. Thorne, are at Narrabri, and
Pollock, who was Freddy Marshall’s manager (and
who owns a dawg), has taken the Academy of
Music at Adelaide for three years; by which time,
we prophesy, he will be heartily sick of it!
Said the Melbourne Herald of forty years ago:
“Mr. Howard, as Roderigo, made an ass of himself
as usual. He ought to be smothered if ever he
attempts to appear on the stage again.” How
different this ferocious style of criticism from that
we have had the honour to introduce to the per-
fesh! When we see a bandy-legged supe with one
eye, and a voice something between that of a cow
and a boy singing through tissue-paper spread on
a comb, essaying the part of Roderigo or Macbeth,
we take that actor by the hand, and remem-
ber that he has his way to make in the world,
whilst the audience are well-fed and in comfort-
able circumstances. We never suggest that he
be smothered. We persuade a News critic
to praise him, and—he smothers himself
Our redoubtable friend, Jimmy M’Mahon. who is
under contract with Heury Irving to produce the
famous London spectacle of “Romeo and Juliet”
exactly as it was rendered in the great metropolis,
is now making every effort to secure the principal
theatre here, and hopes in the course of a few
weeks to present the piece for the first time in the
colonies in Sydney. Hisleadinglady is Miss Fannie
Reed, a well-known Engiish actress recently out
from home, and the remainder of the troupe will
be selected from amongst the colonial artistes
who follow the stage for moans of livelihood...
Chapman, who married Kate Thayer, and had such
shocking bad luck here, is now Gus. Frohman’s
“ adjutant” in London—Bartley Campbell, posi-
tively the worst playwright, perhaps, the world
has seen, has failed to score a success with “My
Partner” in London, yet he coins money in
America with utter trash: a conglomeration of
stolen dialogues and “ novelette ” plots. Listen to
how he talks:—“The ‘White Slave’ cleared $2300
more than its first season. ‘Siberia’ plays to
packed houves everywhere, arid in one week
cleared $3400.” And this will tell you! The N.Y.
Times dramatic critic got dismissed for two un-
favourable notices of Irving I Joseph Hatton
worked it. It will be remembered that it was he
who accompanied Irving on his tour, and who
wrote a book of taffy about it afterwards. Hatton
is stated to be a Jew, but, however that may be,
he has acquired a wide reputation as a writer
though by what moans exactly does not appear!
since his fugitive pieces are little known, and his
novels nave died the death. One, “Clytie”
aroused a storm of indignation when it appeared’
81 ?£ e .,£ he book (which was utter trash) dealt
with the wretched Lady Twiss expost. And this,
too, appeared in the Gentleman's Magazine !.
Here’s a little joke. What is the difference be-
tween Mary Anderson and Ellen Terry, who an-
nounce that they are both “ wedded to their art ?”
Simply because Miss Terry’s art is the more pro-
ductive. We laughed when we thought ot this so
much last night, that “next door” called to us
over the fence to turn that horse out of the kit-
chen.
Mr. Frank Hussey gave a burnt-cork en-
tertainment in Jerusalem, and the graves opened
and several old worthies attended and conducted
themselves riotously. It appears that Methusaleh
insisted on having a box set apart for him, on ac-
count of his age (949), and Hussey objected. He
argued that 949 was his age last time he attended,
but. that as he was only now born again, he coula
not be admitted except as a baby in arms. Solomon
argued that on account of his notorious wisdom
he was entitled to free passes for his household,
and stood outside the door with three hunded of
his wives and seven hundred concubines, all with
their lnir bang;ed and with opera shawls on their
arms. Lot's wife was allowed a position as a lay
figure at the back of the stage, and the applause
of the forty-two larrikins who ha{l been torn up
by the bears was deafening. Shaarack, Meshach,
and Abednego offered to appear in their great fire
scene, and Nebuchadnezzar proposed to come on
and eat a trrns of hay. The illustrious Jonah brought
around a small whale, and tried to run an opposition
show opposite, and to crawl down the whale’s throat
and out again without putting out his cigar; but
the authorities interfered after his first entry, and
the Mayor placed a padlock with the city seals on
its mouth, and locked him inside, His language
it was said, was awful, when they turned the
whale into the Jordan, and that animal on finding
it was too shallow, vomited him out in the old
style before he had secured some specimens from
the hangings of his old apartments. A stand-up
light took place between Sampson and Qoliah,
who, on being requested to leave, challenged the
house to a glorious “mill,” if Hussey and the other
corner man would only lend them a jaw each and
point out the Philistines. At this proposal, Hussey
opened his little mouth so wide, that Jonah, who
had got back, leaped on the stage, and before you
could say Jack Robertson is a teetotaller, shrieked
to his agent, “go around with the hat,” was down
burrowing about Hussey’s interior like a wombat.
He is there yet. That’s how Frank got that roll n
the chair that other minstrels envy.
It was announced by advertisement that a
lecture would be delivered ia the Russell-street
Temperance Hall (Melb.), on “Plagiarism Exposed.’ *
Two metropolitan leader-writers hid a pile of back
numbers of the Batuhday Review, and one said
other, “ How did it get out ? I was mum.”
The devil! ejaculated the other ;“I was mum,
too. I told you your last one was too barefaced.
*ou followed the Reviewer step by step.” “ But
I Australianised it.” “That’s what has given the
scent, and some beggar has followed it up, and got
the key to our last year's work.” “ I think you
were as barefaced as I was. Why. you transplanted
whole paragraphs.” “If I did, I left myself a re-
treat in case of detection. I began such pars, with
It may seem to some people,’ and then went on.
It was you.” “It was you.” And the brilliant
litterateurs quarrelled. But when thev found the
lecture was not about journalism or literature at
all, they went back to each other’s arms, and drew
out from its hiding-place the pile of old Saturday
Reviews.
MEDIC[?]L TE [?]TIMONY.
169 Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
I have tasted the Bavarian Hop Bitters;
they are palatable, and being 1 aware of their com-
ponents, I should say wholesome, and suitable for
those conditions of the liver and stomach that
require herbal stimulants.
J. H. WERB, M.R.C.S., Eng.


Personal
Items
So old Kit Dease has made tracks for
Kingdom come. He wasn't a had sort. Never,
possibly, did attorney live who knew less law; but
he had the gift of the gab, and of quoting lrom
the “ potes,” and that invariably told for the pro-
secution when he defended a prisoner. As a jour-
nalist. he was a highly ornate scribe in the bond
sesquipedalian style. As a brewer of whisky-
punch and a mimic of certain provincial peculiari-
ties of his countrymen, he was (ere he fell into the
sere and yellow and left such tun alone), if not un-
rivalled, in the very first line. We first met him
on the MTvor (Heathcote, Vic.) It was in court;
and he was pleading his own case against the driver
of one of Cobb's coaches for that h© (the said
driver) had, by delaying to deliver a parcel of fish,
considerably damnified him (the said Dease). Ihe
E leader was eloquent, jocose, pathetic; but ho lost
is case as well as his fish, and was known, in con-
sequence, for many years as “one smelt. An-
other time we met him, ’twas at Nagle Ryan s, and
the late Rev. Dr. John O’Connor (the big mission-
ary father, who weighed 20 stone it' he weighed an
ounce, and had a swallow in proportion) was there
too, and the result of a two days’ sederunt was
that the Burrowa market was run clean out ot
whisky and loaf-sugar. Kit and Father John bore
no malice, and took to the rum which was served
to supply the deficit with the most Christian re-
signation, though the latter forbore after his nine-
teenth tumbler, as he opined Jamaiky was bilious.
Kit, however, went on—with the extraordinary
result that the next morning he actually won a
case in the small debts’ court-and now he has
done w.th toddy for ever. How that thought
should nerve us who remain to make the most ot
cur toddy while we can.
Lily Langtree was in San Francisco when
the mail left, and had refused to be interviewed.
The celebrated Mr. St. Clair Jones—by the way
who in thunder is 'the celebrated Mr. St. Clair
Jones?-has sent us a marked copy ot the Alta,
which contaius a tolerably smart two-column ac-
count of how the Alta reporter couldn’t get 10
see Langtry, and also how he did, by special exer-
tion, manage to seo—through the keyhole, we m-
fer-the interior of the special car in which she
resides. Yes—resides. In San Francisco are the
best hotels in the world; yet Lily Langtry de-
liberatelv elects to live in her own special hired
railway car, which the Alta reporter says is
longer than a Pullman palace car, and contains a
drawing-room, panelled with Spanish mahogany
and profusely decorated with, &c.; and also a bed-
room for the Langtry, a dressing-room, room
for two maids, and, as the reporter puts
Mr. Heydon has all the talent for meta-
phor which belongs to men of his race. At the
meeting on the 29fch ult., to protest against the
Land Bill, he declared that when the provisions or
the measure came to be understood there would
be a howl of Indignation that would hurl the
Ministry from A howl that hurls things is
good.
Tbe residents of Bongongolong recently
broke into the school-house to hold a religious
service there. A correspondent in the Gundagai
Elworthy comments on the mysterious disap-
pearance of tho cloca from the school-room, and
as muoh as hints that someone has requisitioned
it to make a water-mill of. Talking of Gundagai,
both Bailey and Elworthy met in a Chinaman s
store there, each upon an ad. intent. It was a
terrible meeting. But neither of the rival journal-
ists got the ad. Bailey says that Elworthy was
once a tailor, and dubs him “the goose;" while
the old man broadly hints that Bailey has out-
grown the habit of telling the truth. “It is,” as
they Isay in the old play, “a pretty quarrel as it
stands.”
Grainger, who erstwhile had the Stab in
Adelaide, is now a member of Parliament. Aller-
dale (he was christened that) tried to give eight
papes for a penny, aod had Sawkins forsub-editor.
The Star had a big circulation, which, however,
was of little consequence to GraiDger, as the more
he sold the greater was tho loss. He turned stock-
broker when the paper went bung, and made a
few lucky hits, Grainger is very tall both m
stature and talk, is an excellent husband, and an
indifferent performer on the flute. Another Ade-
laide journalist, J. C. Johnson, has also got ’em!
He used to edit PuNcn there, and was the personi-
fication of chronic melancholy. After a while he
jrave up writing’, and a little man we knew did the
whole thing for “25 bob” weekly. Johuson is short,
with prominent features (rather like Punch, in-
deed), a bachelor, and a wierd manipulator of the
piauo. Biography: new style.
Gerald Massey, litterateur, lecturer, and
poet, has arrived. Massey i 9 a man of note. From
the slavery of a boyhood, when he drudged from
before dawn to after dark as a factory hand at
half-a-crown a week, he has raised and educated
himself to a recognised position among leaders of
thought. His poems, characterised more by the
passion of his early yesrs of hardship than by dis<-
creetness of utterance-by a gloomy fierceness
begotten of suffering, and a deep sense of the
world's injustices—arc yet as full of b°auty as
they are of fire. Of later years, Massey has given
himself to heavier work in the study of political
and social economy, and is the author of several
volumes on such topios. Ho is under engage-
ment to give a series of lectures in Melbourne,
hut before going thither will be able to give one
or two lectures in Sydney ion week nights), which,
from the man s history, must be of great interest.
Mr. Woods, the Victorian legislator, must
be regarded as the budding Bismarck of this
hemisphere. This ‘'blood and iron” 11 oods has
gravely given notice of a motion for putting a
rifle into the hands of every male adult not physi-
cally disabled, “ with the view of creating a reserve
force for use in time of war.” That’s a gr ind
■otaeme, if it can only be carried out thoroughly,
oepocially as “the reserve is to be maintained by
an annual poll-tax on adult males incapable rt
bearing: arms.” There’s a pleasant sound about
the word “ poll-tax ” which every lover of liberty
will appreciate, and aged fathers will be only too
willing to pay their share towards providing
grown-up offspring with the means of “settling
the old man.” Woods’ " nation of soldiers ” scheme
would require a little developing, of course; even
Bismarck’s military organisation wasn t appre-
ciated for some time. But if this ‘ policy ot pro-
tection ” became consolidated, foreign potentates
would tremble at the name of Woods, even as
Victorians tremble at the mention of his bono-
ahaking brake.
It is stated that Lord Euston means to
make a fresh effort to wrench away the bond of
matrimony which holds him to Lady Euston Kate
Cooke. " One Who Knows ” strongly asserts this
In the London Evening News, and is clearly a
partisan of her Ladyship, whom he declares to he
as much indisposed to-day .as she was two months
ago to “ settle matters.” Lord Euston s next
attack is to be, acoordiug to the authority quoted,
an application for divorce on an allegation of the
Countess’s adultery. Her Ladyship is thus de-
scribed Lady Euston is of medium height, very
fair, with aliaost golden hair, dresses well and in
good taste, and has agreeable manners. In fact, to
converse with her you would imagine she had j
been really born in the purple. Anyway, she is
more of an ornament to the Peerage than the in-
dividual who left no stone unturned to show his
wife up; and those who know her are strongly
prepossessed in her favour. At the head of a
dinner table she shines, and (if I may be allowed
to say it> is quite as ‘good form’ as a hundred
aristocrats whom I could name.” Evidently,
“One Who Knows” has been dining with the
Countess and admiring the elegance of her con-
versation.
When Peter Lalor came along with the
Ms.L.A. on a string, and presented the motley bat-
talion to Sir Henry Loob, the mouth of the veteran
Speaker never looked better. Sir Henry let it be
seen at once that be was profoundly impressed.
He had read some little about Peter, and knew
that he was once a rebel Irishman, and a mutinous
gold-digger, and an outlawed shepherd, but it was
evident that he was not prepared to find the old
man so hale and hearty as he now beheld him. A
short inspection, however, showed where Peter’s
prime advantage lay. As grand romances as any
told about New Zealand caves have been fitted
into speech about Peter’s mouth. When tightly
pressed in those old days, it is said he used to go in
there aod lie quiet till the enemy went by. And
it is sworn to, that on one occasion, just ad a host
of enemies had passed by, his Irish spirits suddenly
stirred him, and he began to dance a triumphal
breakdown The echoes of his heels were heard
by the enemies, t hey turned round. But Peter
shut his moutn, and their pursuit was vain. This
may be an allegory, but whatever it is, Sir Henry
Loch seemed to think it out when he gazed a
minute on the magnificent feature. He took
Peter’s hand, and smiled.
Gerald Massey, the English poet and lec-
turer, arrived from America in the Zealandia (s.s.)
last Friday. A representative of The Bulletin
called upon him ere ho left the boat, and l'ouud
the poet seated at a table in the saloon looking
over some old files of papers that had been proba-
bly handed down from the Ark. Mr. Massey does
not look a great deal like a uoet, and yet his coun-
tenance wears the thoughtful expression of a
student. He is a little, spare man, who looks
as though hard mental work had just about
worn him thoroughly out in mind and in body.
His eyes are dark grey, his noso Grecian, his hair
Silver grey, long and wavy, and he wears a
long dark beard that is now turning grey.
When our reoresentativ© encountered him he had
on a cheeked woollen shirt, a paper collar, and a
thin black cravat. His manner is easy, unassum-
ing, and agreeable, ann one cannot help wondering
when gazing at him, how in thunder such an in-
significant-looking man should have managed to
create anything- of a stir in tin worlds of thought
and letters. Tho poet lias been ill for several
months, having oul 71 eoovered from four months’
confinement to his bea at Rochester, U. 5!., before
starting for Australia. It is Mr. Massey’s intention
to lecture throughout f;be colonies on Shakespeare
and other topics that r aay or may not interest the
antipodean mind, accoi rding to their ’handling.
APPETIZING.
SMALL BOY (with his seventeenth wriggle): “WHAT’S THAT DOG LOOKING AT ML SO HARD
FOR?"
TONSORIAL ARTIST: “WELL, FACT IS, HE’S EXPECTIN’ A BIT OF TOUR EAR,
DIRECTLY HE SEES YOU CAN’T KEEP STILL, AND —.”
(Petrified imm[?] of small boy.)
it, a peg for the porter to hang him-
self on. It appears that the porter was
obdurate when tne re-porter tried to get in, and
wasnt even to be moved by the half-dollar test
ordinarily successful in such cases. Hence the peg.
The porter had taken the reporter down a peg,
and tho reporter would have liked to seethe porter
taken up a peg. The genial current of the repor-
torial soul seems, indeed, to have been consider-
ably frozen. He refers to the lace window-curtains
of the car as being “about thirty days overdue in
an engagement with a Chinese laundry, and also
refers to the beauty herself as a “ Petticoat auto-
crat, spoilt by Princes.” This is flagrantly unfair
The Lily was only spoilt by o.ie 1 nnce—God bless
him! Then the Alta man says that her be auty is
“ open to criticism.” We've heard wojsefhtngs
than that said of Langtry’s beauty. We ve heaid
that it was open to Freddy Gebhardt.
Professor Stuart, of the School of Ana-
tomy, is a cynic philosopher; Dr. Belgrave, the
Inspector of Anatomy—or, as we should say. the
ex-inspector of Anatomy—is an idealistic philoso-
pher: nence their coming into contact resulted in
a ruction. Belgrave listened to strange, weird
tales about deeds of darkness done in the tschool
of Anatomy, of mangy curs, battening
savoury "subjects” in the purlieus of the school,
of pieces of hall-casto flesh being grilled tor
ghoul-like purposes; and he sought to come at the
truth of them, for which—he being Inspector of
Anatomy at the time-we don’t so much blame
him, however wrong he was to attach importance
to the yarns until he had proved them to be true.
Stuart, the cynic, explained away all the foul story
about the dog; but Belgrave, the idealist, still
fancied he smelt a rat, and so the twain came to
speak, each of each, words of high disdain, and
then the acting Minister of Public Instruction,
Abbott to wit, appeared on the scene, and recom-
mended that the Inspectorship ot Anatomy should
be abolished—a singularly illogical conclusion,
since, though the c*se in point may have proved
that B f lgrave was not the man to 1111 he Inspector-
ship with that sobriety of judgment the position
demands, it certainly did not prove that the sur-
veillance over the operations in the school oi
Anatomy (which, in the public interests it most
assuredly is needful to maintain) should be en-
trusted to the Professor of Anatomy. A check
ought to be kept by some official outside of the
University staff on the Professor of Anatomy, his
assistants, ana pupils, to see that the provisions
made from time to time to enable the study to be
unobjectionably pursued are faithfully carried
out. There are Professors and Professors,
I and some day a less careful man than Anderson
Stuart may bring a dog to school and not send it
home—or may be tight—or a dozen things besides.
As a guard against chances of this kind—by no
means remote when the natural history of pro-
fessors is taken into consideration— there should
be an Inspector of Anatomy.
At the Oaks, almost a greater attraction
than the horses, was the exhibition given by His
Grace the bald-headed old Duke of Beaufort, who
immediately on the arrival of his new purchase
“ Miss” Connie Gilchrist in a swell carriage, placed
himself in attendance on the lovely fair. On the
arrival of the Duke at the side of the carriage, out
rushed twelve photographers with their twelve
cameras all in a row, and Connie and the Duke
THE DUKE OP BEAUFORT.
were seized, and their shadows will now be handed
down to posterity. The Duke paid a good sum to
destroy the negative: l,ut, of course, copies were
forthcoming for purchasers all the same. Besides
that trouble, the Duke was obviously uneasv and
bothered. Drummond, Miss ConDie’s last “pro-
tector,” whom she had thrown over to accept the
Duke’s more splendid offers, was present, and
there seemed still to subsist some sort of under-
standing between him and his former mistress. J-
The other day Thomas Williams climbed
up the steps into the dock (Melb.), and showed the
top of his head to Judge Higinbotham. The exer-
cise appeared to have distressed him. for he
breathed hard as he brought his hands together in
front and turned up his eyes. Spectators looked
at Thomas with some interest. No doubt most or
them were learning a lesson in respectful postur-
ing, which will serve them yet before the Court.
Thomas was the beau-ideal of a criminal. There s
an amateurish look about most of the ruffians,
that detracts largely from their value as specimens
of high art. Some of them lean against the rail,
and, with the tongue in their jaw, go asleep.
Others look at the jury, and, by working their
eyes, try to remind that respectable body or men
th it the only great difference between parties in
this life is that some are found out and some
aren’t. Others, again, scratch their heads and spit
at the policeman’s boots. But Thomas did none of
these things. An artist, looking for an accom-
plished criminal, would have been delighted.
There he stood, with the upward cast in his eyes
and his hands joined before him. You would take
him for a parson. And yet, strange to say, his
crime had nothing to do with the girls—the charge
against him was horse-stealing. And throughout
the trial Thomas maintained his respectful and
pious demeanour. He was a most notorious vaga-
bond, as the evidence showed, and most of the last
30 years he had spent in one gaol < r another.
What, then, was it that gave him such a saintly
demeanour? That was everybody's question,
until the information was tendered to the Court
that 35 years ago Thomas was a Wesleyan preacher,
and had laboured with spiritual zeal among the
denizens of Little Bourke-street. Who will say,
after that, that early training is of no avail? What
criminal, brought up on the highways of life,
could behave in the dock in such an irreproach-
able way ? Why, it was a pleasure to the Judge to
give him three years. Moral: Pious training is
never thrown away, It will bear fruit sometime,
and win the regard of men.
The reported marriage of Viscount Saver-
nake to one Dolly Tester, a chorus girl at the
Comedy Theatre, has naturally directed a good
deal of attention to the Tester lamily. It appears
that Dolly was a ballet-girl at the Brighton theatre
six or seven years ago, and has been in the “ per-
fesh ” ever since. She has a sister, Polly, who was
a barmaid in the refreshment room of the sa r.e
theatre, and who is said to be married or contracted
to a very wealthy man. The whole biz. seems to
run on the lines of “ Caste,” even to the name Polly
(Eccles). As for Savernake, ho is grandson and
heir to the present Marouis of Ailesbury, his
father being dead. That father was an officer of
Hussars, and such a dolt that he was known—to
distinguish him from the rest of the Brudenall-
Bruces-as “Duffer” Bruce. It was he and his
confederate, the late Mr. George Payne,who trained
the famous Bribery colt, afterwards named Saver-
nake, so highly for the Derby of 1866 that they
thought he could beat Lord Lyon, and backed tbeir
colt accordingly to win a fortune. There was a
tinge of superstition about these nsble sportsmen,
for they bought the cap and jacket in which
St. Alban’s had won the Metropolitan, the Chester
Cup, and the St. Leger, to Epsom “ for luck.”
As it happened, Tommy French, who had been
ordered to “ wait and come with one run, let go his
horse at the Bell, and after appearing to be win-
ning in a canter, just got beaten by a head on the
post by Lord Lyon. After this, “Duffer Bruce
went hopelessly to the bad. To escape his cre-
ditors he fled from England to Corsica, where
his wife fled from him. So, with money, wife,
and credit gone, he did, perhaps, the best thing he
could under the circumstances—that is, he died.
Viscount Savernake is just of age, and as the Car-
digan Earldom, of which Light-Brigade Cardigan,
of doubtful courage, was the last holder, has
merged into the Ailesbury Marquisate, he will, if
he survives, succeed to both titles, and Miss Doily
Tester will be the future Marchioness of Ailes-
bury and Counters of Cardigan. She was not
lightly won. She had admirers before Savernake
flung his prospective honours at her feet. She had
already diamonds and sapphires, a brougham,
victoria, a light cart, a charming house, and a
heavy settlement. She was, in tact, much better
off than a wooer not yet of age, and without ready
money, albeit be is a Viscount by courtesy and
heir to a Marquisate. In short, she was another
man’s kept woman. Possibly, in the near future,
she anditbe Countess of Euston (Kate Cooke) will
give a tone to aristocratic society, already well
leavened by such similar alliances as those of the
late Lord Kivers with Nelly Holmes, of Sir Henry
Meux with Val Reece, of the late Lord Stamford
with two successive “damozels, one of whom
now enjoys his immense property; and of the late
Lord Cardigan, whose widow has the great Car-
digan estates. The Brudenell-Bruces, by the way,
are a very ancient family. The member ol the
race who made the most distinct mark in history
was Anne Brudenall, the Countess of Shrewsbury,
who had a liaison with the Duke of Buckingham,
and who, when her husband called her lover out,
disguised herself as a page and held Buckingham s
horse while he fought and killed her husband.
General George A. Sheridan, who arrived
by the Zealandia from San Francisco the other
dav. and is now domiciled at Petty s Hotel, is a
well-known American politician and stump-orator.
At the breaking-out of the late civil war, he en-
listed in the 85th Illinois infantry, and rapidly rose
in rank until the battle of Chicamauga, where he
was dangerously wounded. At the conclusion of
hostilities between the North and South, and when
the great work of reconstruction Was begun by
the United States Government, Mr. Sheridan was
appointed Adjutant-General ot the State of Loui-
siana He took an aGtive part in the suppression
of tho Klu Klux Klan, a body of unreconstructed
rebels who made it their business to intimidate or
kill the Negroes who persisted in adhering- to
the Republican party and in voting its ticket.
It was owing to the doings of this or-
ganisation that the celebrated “Congressional
Committee” of 1876 threw out the vote ot
Louisiana as fraudulent, thusi securing the elec-
tion to the Presidency of Rutherford B. Hayes,
the Republican candidate, who gained for himself
during his administration the contempt of his own
party and the country at large, and who is now
always spoken of in print as “the meanest cuss on
God's green earth.” On. the face of the returns
Samuel J. Tilden, of New York, the Democratic
candidate, had a majority of the votes cast, but
the intimidation of the negroes had been so uni-
versal in some of the mo6t populous distiicts ot
Louisiana that the committee appointed by Con-
gress to investinate the election Irauds could do
nothing else than throw out the whole vote as
spurious. For twenty years General George
Sheridan has taken an active part in national
political affairs, and each campaign has found him
stumping the Southern and Western States in
favour of Republican principles and candidates. He
is a typical American politician, and knows every
prominent! man from Maine to Mexico, and lrom
New York to San Francisco. He is t ! K L roU g] l ]},
well-informed, too, on every issue that has been
before the American people tor years, andi he rises
to make a speech at any moment with the same
ready confidence that a Rum reporter sits down to
a champagne banquet,and tackles the tripe. Gene-
ral Sheridan is fifty years old In appearance he is
short of stature, and thick-set. His weight isi pro
bably fifteen stone, but there is a vigour about him
that betokens rugged health, a marvellons appe-
tite, and boundless energy. As a story-teller,
Sheridan has few superiors, and be is always a
favouiite at tho club and the after-dinner social.
He wears the typical slouch hat that has been
worn so extensively throughout the States since
the war,-, during which it grew to be so populai
from the face that Grant, Sherman, Phil.
Sheridan, and a whole host of other hs.
celebrated commanders won all their battles under
it. Mr. Sheridan says that he has come to Aus-
tralia to escape the excitement ot the present
political campaign which promises to be more
lively than any the States has known tor almost a
Quarter of a century. During Ins stay in the
colonies he will deliver a few lectures, it he sees
any opening.” on American topics. We dont
know whether there be any “ opening or not,
but we do know that Mr. Sheridan is a fluen•
sneaker and is fully competent to discuss anj
topic, either political or social, that pertains to the
American people. As he comes with letters of in
troduction from prominent American statesmen
toLord Loftue, Sir B. Loch, and other Australian
notabilia, it is quite probable that the people will
let him talk if he wants to.
It will be noticed by an observant reader
that the tone of some of the items in this paper l *'
gradually growing more religious. This is due to
a change in the opinions of the present writer,
who admits, with honest pride, that he was once a
desperate sinner, but his eyes have been opened to
the glorious truth that there, is more credit to be
got at the bakery by a religious man than by an
infidel. Here, then, is a relgious item , ino
Reverend Kingsmill has been appointed to the in-
cumbency of Christ Church, Queanbeyan.
may be remembered that this is the incum-
bency vacated by the warlike Parson Ross-
Of course, you have all heard of him. He wa
splendid representative of the church militant, n
you like, besides being a person with whom tne
crowned heads of Europe delighted to correspond.
They say that he would march in and break up »
meeting of churchwardens with as little ceremony
as Cromwell used in breaking up the Long
ment? If any objected, he would fix them witb
his glittering eye and bid them begone Ana
they would begone. Being a high-toned per
sou himself, he naturally believed that tn
Almighty was of the same opinion, aim
consequently, his manner of conducting tn
services was High-Cliurch in the extreme-so hign.
indeed, that but few of his parishioners could see
it. He began with banners and crosses. Iher
were murmurs in the congregation, but. they maa
no sign. Then he introduced variations in
reading of the services—to take the chill off rue
monotony, we suppose. The murmurs grew deeper,
but still the congregation mane no sign. Encou
aged by the success of these innovations, he too*
to wearing a cap during certain portions of tn
performance. There was gloom and bittei ness m
the hearts of his rtocu, but still they made no
sign. At last, one morning, the horrified congre
gation saw candles burning on the altar. tne
the storm burst. The infuriated parishioners ac
cused him ot Satanic perfidy. But he only smile •
They hinted darkly that he was a Jesuitwitn a
secret letter-of-marque from Beelzebub to cap
ture their souls and bring them in chains to ino
bottomless pit. As though they needed
be brought there in chains! So the pais
still remained serene. At last they ref used to
him his stipend. Then his mighty heart burst n
the soap-bubble blown from a pipe by ia child sn
ting still on a footbridge. [Notice to Editor. tn
is a simile in tho classic style, and will be charg
for accordingly.] The haughty soul wasstrimw
as the rampant tom-cat on the midnight Jpo
stricken by the flying blucher. [Further noTaoe i
Editor: This simile is given for nothing, being
the modern Sladen manner, which is usually
lor at that rate.l And the parson girded up “


trunk and Hed. He also took his revolver with
him It is now whispered hoarsely in the parish
that he used to have the congregation covered with
this revolver while the collectors were going round
with the plates. We suspect that this rumour
iA the outcome of malice. However, they do say
that during the latter portion of his incumbency
thfi congregation got even on him by subscribing
isrirelv in tin-tags. There is no believing what
vnu hear, though. We forgot to state that he also
took his dog with him. He had two dogs—one a
hull-dog, presented to him by the Archbishop of
Canterbury, on leaving England; the other, a
noodle (winner of several prizes), presented to him
hv the Grand Duke of Hopbitterstein, after a three
weeks’ visit to the palace of that potentate. These
dogs were the cause of almost as much bitterness
against him as his religious vagaries. They were
too aristocratic to associate with the low-bred,
homv-footed dogs ot the town. So. as we said be-
fore Parson Ross fled, and Christ Church, Quean-
beya’n, has resumed its holy and lowly nakedness
anil gloom.
A lot of good anecdotes about Henry Ward
Beecher are told by “ Granville,” in a capital bio-
graphical notice contributed to the Melbourne
Herald; and as “ Granville” is an honoured mem-
ber of our own staff, we needn’t scruple to repro-
duce them. “ Beecher is (says “ Granville”) one of
the easiest men to interview I ever met. His fund
of anecdote is probably greater than that of- any
other man in America, except, perhaps, Robert
Ingersoll,the celebrated barrister and Free-thought
lecturer; and it is worthy ol note that these two
men, despite the wide difference between their
opinions, entertain the warmest admiration for
HENRY WARD BEECHER.
one another. Here’s one of Beecher’s yarns
‘ One day I received a call from an old lady who
had been reared as a strict Presbyterian, in the
mountains of Vermont. She appeared to be in great
mental distress, and finally said, ‘Mr. Beecher, l hear
that your son Charlie’s got a fiddle, an instrument
of the devil to lure the souls of the young to per-
dition.’ I assured the good old soul that my son
had no fiddle, but that my nephew, who was stay-
ing with me, had a violin. The old lady didn’t
know the difference between a violin and a church
organ, and so I called to my nephew, who was in
the next room, to take up his violin and play ‘ Old
Hundred.’ He complied, and then followed with
‘Yankee Doodle’ and the ‘Devil’s Dream.’ By
this time the old lady’s feet and hands were un-
consciously keeping time with the music. When
at last she arose to go, she said, ‘ Oh, Mr. Beecher,
you don’t know how glad I am that your nephew
nasn’t got a soul-destroying fiddle but a God-
blessed violin.’ Beecher spent one of his summer
vacations in the Adirondack mountains. The first
Sunday he attended the little village church and
heard the pastor, a middle-aged man, preach one
of his own sermons that had been published some
years previously. After service, Mr. Beecher went
forward and shook hands with the mountain
preacher, telling him that he (Beecher) was also a
minister of the Gospel. Finally, Beecher said to
him: ‘Pardon me, but how long did it take you
to write that sermon ?’ ‘ Oh,’ was the reply,
‘I dashed it off in a couple of hours’ time.’
‘ Is that possible ?’ exclaimed Mr. Beecher. ‘ Why,
do you know, it took me nearly two months to
write that sermon.’ ‘What, sir? Are you the
Reverend Henry Ward Beecher?’ ‘That is my
name.’ ‘ Well,’ said the ruralist, with great self-
possession, ‘l’m not ashamed, Mr. Beecher, to
preach one of your sermons anywhere.’ It is a
practice of Beecher to furnish new surprises for
his congregation. One Sunday he took his text
from St. Paul, and read: ‘I can do all things—No
you can’t, Paul. Go a little slow, my dear sir. i’ll
bet you two dollars you can’t do ali things,’ and
Mr. Beecher produced a two-dollar greenback,
which he spread out on the Bible. Then he read
the sentence clear through: ‘I can do all things—
through the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ.’ * Ah,
Paul,’ said Mr. Beecher, picking up the two-dollar
bill, * that last clause puts a different construction
on the affair, and all bets are declared off. Any-
way, it wouldn’t be fair for a man of your reputa-
tion, Paul, to bet on a sure thing.’ ”
* * ©
The great war-correspondent babbleth to
his Granny of green fields and the silvery Thames,
■'lknow,” scribbled he, “most of the river well;
once lalmost lived near Goring.” Ah! if someone
else could only have written, “ He—the great w.c.
—actually died there,” what a regard we should
have for that “ quaint and somewhat prosaic vil-
nge.” —L. L. Smith, “Jate the residence of the
Governor,” is shocked at the bad feeling that
exists between New South Wales aud Victoria, and
offers his assistance to the removal of it. Federal-
ists can now count on success. Those sealed
packets were what N«w South Welshmen were
standing out for since the agitation began.
Thanks, L.L It is worth explaining. Mr. Berry
stands up for a duty on imported hops in order to
develop the industry of hop-growing in Victoria.
Mr. Berry also stands up and fights hard to lessen
the consumption of the product of hops. Explain
wherewe are landed. But, then, everything seems
to want explaining now-adays—only the headache
in the morning... Bill Ryan, who died at Dapto
the other day, aged (“ E.O.E. years, used to
yarn about a blacksmith’s shop he kept on Brick-
field Hill, Sydney, circa 1800, and aboutj Polly his
wife (nee Higgins), whom he was wont to asseverate
was the first white women born in N.S.W. Lord,
Lord, how this world is given to lying! Why, the
red right hand that indicts this par. nas chronicled
the names of it knows not how many women, each
of whom was the first white, &c. Decidedly, nay
Higgins! As the swan remarks somewhercs, “ Old
men forget,but some remembers with advantages.”
•• Little .Tackes, of the Armidale Free Press, has
been burnt out. He only had a four months’ run.
•’kckes was an American citizen—born in New
hngland. He was insured. He was also—we for-
get whether we said so before or not—an Ameri-
can citizen.. .Courtney, the future member for the
i yrrnout Bridge (and other places), is angry be-
cause we said that when we called on him the door
was opened by a goat. Hang it! we can’t be ex-
pected to know all his relations We see that
Mr. ‘Pickles” is in trouble again. Six months
tor potatoes; and as there are a lot more charges,
things, with Pickles, would seem to be getting
mixed ...The Herberton Advertiser says:—
The friends of Mr. Morgan C. Green will be glad
to hear that he is now the lessee of the Cooktown
Herald newspaper, and we congrriulate him
upon being again in press harness. We have not
received the Herald this week, which is ac-
counted lor by a notice in the Cooktown
loubier.” There 1 s something startling in the
simplicity of this par. We can guess all about it.
why will literary men take more—sardines—thaD
hre good for them We wonder what Henry
Harrie Cooke is going to do now. Of course, if
elected, he will bo a land agent When Joseph
heard that the rev. Zillman’s “ relations were
strained” at Ballarat with the bishop, he said he
sapposod they were in the hospital. “ Dan-
gerous practice,” he sagely remarked, “that
thi’owing about of orange-peel, ain’t it, now ?”
When old Allck Campbell was Postmaster-General,
an ancient dame, travelling by the railway, some-
how lost her ticket. She had namoney; but when
the guard came up a happy thought struck her.
“ Guard,” she said, “ I travel free. I’m the Post-
master-General.” “ All right,” replied the official,
passing on; “I always heard he was an old
woman.” “ Mr.Whittingdale Johnson presided,”
etc. “ Wbittingdale!” Who gave you that name?
Your godfathers and godmothers in your baptism?
Let s know who they are, old man, till we charge
with scrap iron our little musket Mr. Wright is
sick. The Armidale people are sick, too. Of Mr.
Wright Mr. Castieau, of Pentridge, has been
sent away for six months. He is a handsome little
man, with long black whiskers and short black
trousers. He was one of Marcus Clarke’s greatest
friends “I hereby caution the public not to
give my wife, Mrs. J. J. Porter, any credit, as I
will not be answerable for it. Mr. J. J. Porter,
Mitchell-street, Glebe. July 22.” If Mrs. P. has
“left her home,” it is to be presumed that she is at
present not badJy off for Porter Lus-
combe signs his letters “R. C. Luscombe,
M. L. A.” This is to put it on record. Fancy
the senior member for Birmingham sign-
ing in The Times p’John Bright, M. P.”
The numerous friends of Mr. E. B. Woodhouse, of
Mount Gilead, will be glad to hear that in June he
was still in London, and hearty Under the head-
ing of “Remarkable Occurrences,” the W.B. and
B, News (Q.) has the following:—“W. H. Buzacott,
Rockhampton Bulletin, died, 1880.”
If you’ve read his rag, why, then
You would have longed to clout it;
So we don’t see that there is much
“Remarkable ” about it.
It is reported that Mr. W. H. L. Bailey has sold
the Gundagai Herald to Messrs. F. Pinkstone
and Mooney. W. H. L. was also, it is rumoured,
asked to stand for Monaro Had he succeeded
Tooth, there would have been some fun. By the
way, not many months ago, we drew this Tooth.
Mr. T. is stated! to be very wealthy, and in con-
sequence lives “on prongs.” “ Well, Joseph,”
said a friend, to the future member for Wollombi,
“at any rate, Dan Smith seems to believe in the
Claimant.” “Seems?” cried Joe, contemptuously;
“that’s no ‘criterior.’”—Mr. T. P. Wills-Alien,
J.P. of Gunnedah, seems to be a good sort. He
took 600 children to St. Leon’s circus. It cost him
£32 10a., and will probably secure him a good place
when he has done with circuses on this terrestrial
sphere. The example Mr. Wills-Alien has set is
immense. Now, then, Mr. John Lucas! Plank
down the money for the dress circle at the Royal!
Stay, though. He would require the D.C. for him-
self. The stalls would accommodate the kids,
* » •
Li Hung Chang seems to he the name of
the ex-Prime Minister of China. This is a bit
ahead of Quong Tart. We expect when Quong
sees this, he will go back again to China and get. a
bit more tacked on to his cognomen. They do it
there by the yard. We don’t know how much a
yard. Perhaps a tael Madame de Beaubeir, a
Parisian actress, recently shot her husband in the
back while he was writing to a creature. The
jury acquitted the lady without leaving their
seats. They did not, however, offer her any re-
ward out of the poor-box —Prince Victor has
turned out a very giddy boy. It is rumoured
that, on attaining the age of 16, Prince Napoleon
told him to choose anything he liked and he would
get it. He said he would like a ballet....M.
Guichard, who murdered the bank runner at
Marseilles and robbed his receipts, is to come out
to New Cal idonia. We wonder which “army”
he’ll belong to ?
It is certainly a quite proper thing to pre-
vent constables, who undertake to give their
whole services to the State, from engaging in in-
dependent business or carrying on any form of
trade. Every citizen does right in contributing to
the preservation of this principle of public policy,
and when a gentleman comes forward to expose a
breach of it he deserves something for his pains.
Councillor Rawlins, the President of the Nuna-
wading (Vic.) shire, applied for a commission of
inquiry, the other day, saying that he was able to
prove that Constable Hayes had broken the above
principle, and was living in defiance of it. The
commission was granted. Mr. Rawlins claimed as
a preliminary that it should be couceded that
what a man’s wife did with his knowledge and
consent, the man himself did. con-
ceded. Thereupon Mr. Rawlins produced a long
file of witnesses who all swore on oath that Mrs.
Hayes sold eggs. The commission dismissed the
case. We say nothing one way or another upon
this, but adhere to our former opinion that a
gentleman who comes forward in this way de-
serves something for his pains. Different gentle-
men, of course, deserve different things, nut we
think Mr. Rawfins deserves some of those eggs—
not those promised to customers round about, out
those promised to customers who died long ago.
[The presentation might be made with a 10-ton
catapult.—Ed. B ]
Everything seems to he going wrong about
Pentridge. Prisoners feast, warders drink, gaolers
sleep, governors write letters to the papers, in-
spectors button-hole members of the Ministry,
and inspectors-general write home for their bap-
tismal lines to prove that they are 60 years of age.
Every one of tnese things is getting at the tax-
payer, and dealing him an indecent dig beneath
the belt. He stands out from the concern, and
now meditates what is best to do. If he begins at
the head, the prisoners will be so obese wben he
gets that far that he will want a windlass to lift
>hem; and if he begins at the foot, by the time he
has flattened out the prisoners the warders will
have become governors, the gaolers inspectors-
general; while the inspectors-general will be on
the Continent on half-pay, and the inspectors will
be getting ready to go there by the next boat. As
far as present statements guide, it would seem
that the cardinal evils are three—first, the high-up
officials are entitled to superannuation when t tey
reach 60; they, therefore, spend all their time
trying to reach it. Second, the low-down officials
don’t see why they should stand in their own light
by doing too much work. Tne evidence as to what
gains promotion is ample. And, third, the prisoners
cry “ To h with everything,” and collar all they
are able. Some people goad the taxpayer to begin
the reformation with this third party. We would
advise the noble animal to catch all who thus goad
him, and run them into Pentridge right away.
Then there would be some reason for beginning
with the prisoners.
Melbournites made a vigorous effort, the
other night, to prove to Sir Henry and Lady Loch
that, in leaving England, they had passed into an
area of artistic cultivation richer and more lovely
than the old one. It was felt that first impressions
go a long way to determine opinion. Therefore,
the Town Hall was lighted up, the Liedertafel was
pulled together, and the grace and dignity of the
capital made a cordon around the vice-regal party.
The music was from Mendelssolm, Benedict, arid
Listz. The Sophoclean Adipus went through his
sorrows, stumbling blindly through a world of
weird melodies »nd strong harmonics. Hoskins
was at his best, and the stage was a stage of artists.
“Vera goot!” said His Excellency. Then Mrs.
Armstrong came out and warbled divinely, and
soon Madame Elmblad appeared, and the rich clear
voice cut the air like a sunbeam, and ross and fell
and left the ears hungry for more. “Vera goot,
indeed!” said His Excelbncy. Then Mr. John
Ratcliff came out with his flute, and the light went
dancing around him as he blew music in its face,
and everyone was spellbound. “ Extremely goot,’
said His Excellency; “ equal to anything at home!”
And then Mr. J. J. Casey came on the stage and
said: “Hem, ahem, this lyre—ahem—l have been;
it is—ah—my pleasant duty to—ah, ahem—l havo
been deputed to—ah, ahem—present to Mr. Rad-
cliff—ahem, ah—this lyre of the Liedertafel—ah,
yes—as a token—ah, ahem—of its recognition-
yes, ah—its recognition of his—ahem, ah-great
genius.” His Honor’s beauty of face and elegance
of figure, with the bright lights on ail sides of him
added immensely to the effect of his eloquent
utterance, and, as he handed over the lyre and
bowed, His Excellency cried, and Melbourne, hear-
ing the cry, felt happy! “ Goot goot, petter than
anything as was ever so short a tune ago!”
WHAT IS BEAUTY?
THE “ LILY AND THE ROSE ” COM-
PLEXION, AND WHAT IT COSTS.
WHAT THE SKIN AND SCALP HAVE TO DO
WITH BEAUTY.
SKIN TORTURES AND DISFIGURATIONS,
AND POISONS AND POISONERS.
FACTS, FANCIES AND FALLACIES OF
PATIENTS, DOCTORS AND REMEDIEB.
Beauty—thou pretty plaything, dear deceit,
That steals so softly o’er the stripling’s heart.
Socrates called beauty a short-lived tyranny,
Plato a privilege of nattir.-, Theocritus a delight-
ful prejudice, Theophrastus a silent cheat, Car-
neades a solitary kingdom, Homer a glorious gilt
of nature, Ovid a favour of the gods. Aristotle
affirmed that beauty was better than all the letters
of recommendation in the world; aud yet none of
these distinguished authorities lias left us even a
hint of how beauty is to be perpetuated, or the
ravages of age and disease defied. Time soon
blends the lily and the rose into the pallor of age,
disease dots the fair face with cutaneous disfigura-
tions and crimsons the Roman nose with unsightly
flushes. Moth, if not rust, corrupts the glory of
eyes, teeth and lips, yet beautiful, by defacing the
complexion, and fills the sensitive soul with agony
unspeakable.
If such be the unhappy condition of one afflicted
with slight skin blemishes, what must be the feel-
ings of those in whom torturing humours have
for years run riot, covering the skin with scales
and sores and charging the blood with po’sonous
elements to become a part of the system until
death ? It. is vain to attempt to portray such
suffering. Death in many cases, which we have
witnessed, might be considered a blessing. The
blood and fluids seem to be impregnated with a
fiery element, which, when discharged through the
pores upon the surface of the body, inflames and
burns until, in his efforts for relief, the patient
tears the skin with his nails, and not until the
blood flows does sufficient relief come to cause
him to desist. Thus do complexional detects
merge into torturing disease, and piqued vanity
gives place to real suffering. A little wart on the
nose or cheek grows to tho all-devouring lupus, a
patch of tetter on the palm of the hand or on the
limbs suddenly envelopes tho body in its flery em-
brace, a bruise on the leg expands into a gnawing
ulcer, which reaches out its fangs to the sufferer s
heart, in every paroxysm of pain, a small kernel
in the neck multiplies into a dozen, which eat
away the vitality, great pearl-like scales grow
irom little rash-like inflammations in such abun-
dance as to pass credulity; and so on may we de-
pict the suffering to which poor human nature is
subject from cutaneous diseases, all ot which in-
volve great mental distress because of personal
disfigurations.
Every school girl or boy knows that if a pore in
the skin in his or her face becomes clogged a little
black head appears, aud surrounding it a little
pimple. If a dozen pores become clogged, there
are a dozen Dlack heads and pimples, fc>o it is with
acne. In salt rheum, or, as it is technically called,
eczema, the cause of the disease seems to be in the
blood, from the fact that the fiuids which pour out
through the tubes are charged with a poisonous
element that creates the most Intense itching and
violent inflammation, and rapidly destroys the
outer or scarf skin. This dreadful form of skin
disease attacks all ages, and may frequently be
seen lully developed in young infants at birth. In
such casts it is often called milk-crust, scald head,
&e , but there is no douqt of its real nature, ana
that it is an inherited humour. If there were not
another external disease known, salt rheum would
be a suificieut infliction on mankind, it pervades
all classes, and descends impartially through
venerations. While some are constantly en-
veloped in it, others have it confined to small
patches in the ears, on the scalp, on the breast, on
the palms of the hands, on the limbs, &0., but
everywhere its distinctive feature is a
small watery blister, which discharges an
acrid fluid, causing heat, inflammation,
tion, and intense itching. Ring-worm, tetter,
scald head, dandruff, belong to this scaly
and itchiog order ot diseases. Psoriasis, our
modern leprosy, with its mother-of-pearl scale,
situated on a reddened base, which bleeds upon
the removal of tne scale, is to be dreaded and
avoided, as of old. Lupus, the all-devouring
ulcer, impetigo, barber's iten, erysipelas, and a
score of minor disorders make up the catalogue
of external diseases of the skin. Thus far we have
made no allusion to those afflictions which are
manifestly impurities of the blood, viz.: swelling
of the glands of the throat, ulcers in the neck and
limbs, tumours, abscesses, and mercuriallpoisons,
because the whole list can he comprehended in the
one word—scrofula.
Scrofula, or king’s evil, is the most insidious,
mysterious, and formidable of all the affections
to which humanity is subject. It may lie unde-
veloped in the system, and pass over one, two, or
three generations without in the least interfering
with the health or causing any inconvenience from
eruptive outbreaks, and then reappear with the
utmost virulence in the fourth generation, every
muscle and tissue, the bony framework of the
system, and the blood corn sing through the veins
being irretrievably impregnated by the subtle
poison. This disease, ou annoying and disgusting
to the sensitive mind, may well be called the
plague of the social circle, fts tenacity equals its
virulence, and the only hope of its eradication lies
in an early appreciation of its dangers and its
power.
If scrofula is promptly treated in childhood, the
poison is much more speedily and effectually eradi-
cated than when it is allowed to permeate the
system for a series of years, the patient conse-
quently escaping the sad and harrowing experi-
ences of a youth and early manhood ana woman-
hood blighted by a c’onstant sickness, nervous
prostration, excruciating agony from a perverted
or morbid condition of mental and physical func-
tions, and, worse than all, a life embittered by
social isolation from disfigurements more annoying
and heartrending in their results than the plague
or the ancient leprosy.
The treatment of diseases of the skin and scalp has
been for centuries based upon a theory which has
entirely overlooked the important part, the tubes
and vessels of the skin play in the propagation
and maintenance of disease by pouring out upon
the surface of the body perspiratory fluids charged
with the virus or disease germs of scrofulous, can-
cering and contagious humours. We are notuDjust
to the profession when we say that its efforts in
tne permanent cure of skin, scalp, and blood di-
seases have been a failure. What with mistaken
theories, mineral poisons, and blind reverence for
dogmas and superstitions long since exploded, salt
rheum psoriasis, scald head, and scrofula, the
parent of all humours, flourish and increase upon
systems shattered by mercury, arsenic, zinc, and
lead. Nor have the senseless “sarsaparilla,”
“ dock," and dandelion blood purifiers (?) of quacks
and patent medicine vendors been any better or
much worse. ,
a few years ago, one of the ablest physicians,
surgeons, and scientists Boston has ever produced
turned bis attention to the treatment of cuta-
neous diseases, and by a series of microscopic and
chmnicai analyses of the perspiratory fluids and
the blood, botri in health ana disease, reaehed the
following remarkable conclusions: 1. That di-
seases ot the skin and scalp are caused by a de-
rangement ot the secretory and excretory tubes
and vessels of the true SRin; and 2, that such di-
seases or affections are aggravated and maintained
by poisonous fluids containing the virus of scro-
fula, malaria, or contagious disease, which are dis-
charged from ific bloud aud circulating tluics up-
on the skin through the sweat and fat glands.
He successfully maintained against all oppo-
sition that skin diseases cannot be cured si leiy
by internal remedies, nor solely by external
remedies, but by a judicious use of both.
These affections are not wholly caused by
impurities of the blood and circulating fluids,
nor are they due entirely to a diseased con-
dition of the sweat and fat glands, tubes, vessels,
and cells of the true skin, but to a peculiar and
inseparable condition of both. For if one be
treated to the neglect of the other, no permanent
progress is made; but, with attention to both at
the same time, a cure is possible in nearly every
case.
Having fully proven his theory, he engaged
Messrs. Weeks and Potter, chemists and druggists,
Boston, U.S.A. (who are permitted to refer to
Messrs. R. Towns and Co. and Messrs. Barron, Mox-
ham, and Co., Sydney), to put into practical form
tho remedies which experience had suggested to
him as most desirable. Hence the origin of the
Cuticura remedies. How these truly great cura-
tives have pret ailed over all opposition and be-
come the sole reliance of skin doctors, private
hospitals, public institutions, and the people gener-
ally in the treatment ot diseases of the skin, sea'p,
and scrolulous impurities of the blood, are matters
of history of which we do not propose to speak.
That Cutlcura (from cutis and cura, meaning a
skin cure) and Cutieura Soap prepared from it, ex-
ternally, and Cutieura Resolvent, the new blood
pit rider, internally, will clear the complexion,
cleanse the skin and scalp, and purify the blood ( f
every species of itching, scaly, pimply, scrofulous,
mercurial, and cancerous humours, sores, utceis,
swellings, tumors, abscesses, blood poisons,scurvj,
salt rheum, erysipelas, psoriasis, scald head, bar-
ber’s itch, and all other torturing distlgurations,
(kin blemishes, and humouis of childhood, when
pnysicians, hospitals, and all other means fail, wo
propose to prove in our next issue, by living wit-
nesses ns a duty toward those still in affliction.
Cutieura Resolvent acts with or ergy uprn tho
bowels, liver, kianeys, and pores of me akin,
neutralizing, absorbing, and expelling mortid,
impure, and contagious disease germs which boat
in the blood and other Hums of the system. Cuti-
cura, a medicinal jelly, clears off all external
evidence of blood, skin, and scalp humours, eats
aways dead skin and flesh, instantly allays itching
and irritations; softens, soothes, aiid heals. Cuti-
cura soap, fragrant with delicious ttower odours
and healiug baisams. contains in a modiued form
ali the virtues ot Cutieura, and is indispensable in
the treatment of skin and scalp diseases, and for
restoring, preserving, and beautifying the com.
plexton ana skin. Thus the blood and circulating
fluids are rendered pure by the Cutieura Resolvent,
and no longer irritate and inflame the pores, tubes,
and glands of tho skin, which, under the influence
of Cutieura and Cutieura Soap, are soothed,
cleansed, and healed, and a cure compl< t d by
remedies compounded aud administered in accord-
ance with scientific rtsearch and common sense
New York Herald.
At last! Yes! we have actually come upon
a local par. in the Gunnedah Advertiser. Fuctl
And, as you might have guessed, it's about a
brewery—about the Gunnedah Brewery, which
has just been taken by Wilkins and—name of
happy owner—Funnel!. W. and F. gave a lunch to
inaugurate their tirst brow, and the ’Tiber was
there. He had been told the affair would be but
an unpretentious one, and so was utterly unpre-
pared for the ilrst-class spread revealed to his gaze
—the cramcs and custard, and the beef and mus-
tard, with lobsters and poulthry, and other fallow
d*er—but suffice it to say he played a good knife
and fork, and a super-excellent mug. When the
speechifying was on, tne Funnel! proposed the
Press, and the Press was responded to by Mr.
Roberts Happy conjunction of monikers! May
the Gunnedah Brewery ne'er want a Fuunell, nor
the Gunnedah Press the necessary Roberts where-
with to defray the somewhat heavy expenses of
keeping its drouth allayed with the modest fre-
quent quencher!
Listen to this! Parson Pox, in a letter to
the Bum, saith: “The fact named by Mr. P:cton of
two young men, previously of good character,
after the first hearing of one of such lectures
(Secularist, to wit), going an 1 spending the night
in a disreputable house, is but a natural result."
This beats the traveller who reported that all
Frenchwomen had red hair, because the chamber-
maid at his inn ‘at Dieppe had carroty locks —beats
him and his logic all to pieces, because the premiss
(the foxy premiss) isn't a fact within the wrangler s
knowledge. It is only a Pictonian fact—with the
odus in favour of its being a stupid . But,
assuming that it was a fact, is it good strategy on
an Anglican parson's part to maintain that the
lecture was the direct cause of the giddiness (on
the post hoc propter hoc line of argument) ? Isn’t
it \ ery foolish strategy, since, for every enemy
bowled over, will it not knock down a dozen
friends? Our word! Why, your boss fornicators
are notoriously religious elders, sidesmen, pillars—
and even Secularists admit that those hypocrites
act in spite of their creed—a creed in its naked
simplicity inculcating purity. But if Fox is right,
and post hoc propter hoc is the right sort of argu-
ment in such caies, why, then, his Reverence's
Church is the mother of abominations, so proved
out of the actions of scores on scores of her pro-
minent sons! If we were Barry the Primate, we
should cry out, “ Come, whip me this foolish little
fox, who waltzeth around in the vineyard destroy-
ing things, and giving occasion to the enemy to
blaspheme!”
The promoters of the Federal Consultation
Company offer shares in their Melbourne Cup
Sweep at £l each. They guarantee to distribute
1000 cash prizes, the first being £2500. Prospectus,
giving full particulars, will be bent free, on appli-
cation to Robert Uamsay, Commission Agent, 405
George-street, Sydney.*
Mr. DbOouroy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,’’
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52Castle-
reagh-strect, Sydney, 63* Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The heatheu Chinee knows it, and so does
the cannie Scotchman, and the ’cute Yankee
“guesses” it’s tarnation prime. It is here, there,
and everywhere. Wherever you go, it turns up.
ltisiutbesnop windows, at the railway stations,
in the omnibuses, in the tram-cars, in the steam-
boats on the river, and in the steamboats on the
ocean. It appears upon the wharves and on the
quays. In the newspapers and in the magazines,
there it is. By the roadside and on the landing
stages it meets the gaze. Is is talked about in
London and Manchester warehouses, in Sheffield
and Birmingham workshops, among the looms of
Bradford and Leeds, in Lancashire cotton mills,
and away amoDg the Staffordshire potteries. In
elegant Paris, in manufacturing Lyons, and in the
toy factories of far-off Saxony, you hear of it
You can t get away from it; and if you are wise
you don’t want to, tor it is the name and fame of
Anthony Hordern and Sons, of The Palace Empo-
iium, Hayroarket.*
The People Want Proof. There is no
medicine prescribed by physicians or sold by
druggists that carries such evidence of its success
and superior virtue as Boschee’s German Syrup
for severe Coughs, Colds settled on the breast
Consumption, or any disease of the Throat and
Lungs. Any person afflicted, can get a Sample
Bottle for 6d. and try its superior effeqt before
buying the regular size at 3s. 6d. Its wonderful
cures are astonishing every one that uses it. Three
doses will relieve any case. If you have a Cough
or Cold that wi 1 not yield to other remedies try
German Syrup and you will be surprised at the
result. It has cured many cases of so-called Con-
sumption which doctors had given up. It is sold
by all Druggists in the Civilized World,


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS anil Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney.
i. moms gloves,
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
•• One of the most versatile artistes on thG stage.
NOW ON TOUR.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE, July 13th,
in his great production of the
“ CREOLE.”
gag*- New Zealand Tour Postponed pro trm.
All communications en route.
Theatre roy a l
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and MusOROVB.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Immense Reception and Grand Artistic Triumph
MISS ANNIS MONTAGUE
MR. CHARLES TURNER.
THIS and TO-MORROW EVENING,
THE PIRATES OF PENZANCE
SATURDAY EVENING, AUGUST 9th,
PATIE MCE.
In nrenaration, two new and original Operas,
P S-THE MERRY DUCHESS ;
Second —ESTRELLA.
PRICE 3 AS USUAL.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
L Boie Lessee and Manager, Signor E. Majeroni.
FAREWELL SEASON
of Miss ,
JENNIE LEE JENNIE LEE
and „
Mr. J. P. BURNETT.
To-night, Thursday, and To-morrow Night, Friday,
io nigni, i TVVO NIGHTS
CASTE. ° [ CASTE.
SATURDAY, AUGUST Oth..first time in Sydney.
DIVORCONti. DIVOROONS.
8-act Comedy, a great London and Parisian Success.
The Furniture from Alexander Moore and Co.’s
Private Boxes, £3 35.; Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 3s.
Parauette, 3s. Children in arms not admitted.
Day tickets at Roberts’, adjoining the Theatre.
Box plan at Huenerbein s, 411 Goorge-street.
LIDD Y— Business Manager for Miss Jenni 9 Lee.
N.
G
AIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
LESSEE AND MANAGER :
MR. WYBERT REtsVE.
Immense Success and Glorious Triumph of Mr.
Harry Stanley’s most celebrated
JUVENILE OPERA COMPANY.
Last Night but one of Offenbach’s Opera,
THE GRAND DUCHESS.
SATURDAY NEXT Gilbert and Sullivan’s most
popular Opera,
H.M.B. PINAFORE.
BoX plan at Nicholson’s. Day tiokets at Loder’s
Hotel (opposite Theatre). Agent for H. Stanley,
W. Farmer. Business Manager, G. A. Coleman.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager— Mr. F.E. Hiscocks.
18th WEEK. 18th WEEK.
Unabated Success.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAH-
R 1 VELLOUS GIRARDS.
Glorious Reception American Come ‘
dian, Mr. FRANK HUSSEY.
Saturday Evening, an entire change of programme.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Palings, where
Fianos for this entertainment are suppl ed.
S E Y,
Gerald mas
POET and LECTURER,
will deliver his first Lectures in this city at the
Masonic hall, york-screet, on
TUESDAY and THURSDAY NEXT,
the 13th and 14th instant, at 8 p.m.
Subjects t
the Man shakespearE, with something
NEW.
and
OLD ENGLAND’S SEA-KINGS.
AdmissSion, Is.; Front Seats, 35.; Reserved Seats
for both Lectures, 3s.
Dear Mr. Massey,—l rejoice in acknowledging
my own debt of gratitude to you for many an en-
couraging and nobb thought, and expression ot
thought, and my convictiou that your poems in
the mass have been a helpful and precious gift to
the working classes (I üße the term in its widest
and highest sense) of the country—that low
national services cin be greater than that which
you have rendered.—Believe me, gratefully yours,
JOJIM RUBKIN."
* 4 Hero is another poet, and one whose story and
position as a teacher and a preacher clothe him
with unusual interest.”— Athenaotm.
“ A man who has fought his way to the temple
gate of fame, sword in hand.”—The Times
“ He has made the most subtle and curious study
of the character of Shakespeare, as shown in his
writing , which has as yet been put forth.’ —New
York Tribune .
S
UNDAY AFTERNO
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
O N
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 3, 3.20,2.40,3,3.20,
entertainment will commence at 3 30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
Joi te from the establishment of Nicholsen and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany
I
N
G .
D
N
PkOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The P BU
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly tarnished
in Australia, to Kent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, -A
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-strcet. P.b.
The ball-room is much longer than V estlbuie
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can. all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
snring floor, &c. No decorations required.
Agricultural society of new uouth
WALES.
METROPOLITAN exhibition.
1884. AUGUST. 1«8U
To be held at
THE SOCIETY’S GROUNDS, MOORE PARK.
SHOWS OPENS ON J4'h AUGUST.
SPECIAL PRIZES. ,
Four-in-Hands, Jumping, Trotting, Single and
Pair Horses, Hackneys, Pomes, Acc , Arc.
Prize schedules can be obtained at the Society s
Oflico, No, 7, Tattersall’s buildings, Hunter-street.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
TO THEATRICAL MANAGERS AND OTHERS-
TENDERS are invited for the Leasing of the
Victoria Theatre, Parramatta, together with
Shop, Residence and Offices, for a term of .1 years.
All information can be obtained from the chair-
man of the Board, to whom tenders are to be ad-
dressed. Tenders will be received up to August
14tb, 7 o'clock,
’ W. .1. FERRIS,
Chairman of Directory,
Church-street,
Parramatta.
for the
CHAMPIONSHIP OF AUSTRALIA,
to take place
DURING THE CAULFIELD CUP WEEK-
If essrs. Alcock & Co.
will present one of their
MATCS BILLIARD TABLES,
Value One Hundred and Fifty Q u’neas, tobe com"
peted for under the following conditions, viz.:
1. The match to take place in Melbourne, be-
tween the 11th and 18th October, the game to be
1000 up. If ".ore than two players compete, each
game to be 1000 up. All competitors to start from
scratch.
2. Open to nil comers who have resided in the
Australian colonies, New Zealand, or Tasmania
for twelve months prior to the match.
3 Each player to stake £5O, and the winner to
take the stakes and Messrs. Alcock and Co.’s
trophy. If more than three compote, the runner-
up to save his stake.
4. Nominations (£10) to be paid on or before the
30th August next to the sporting editor of “The
Australasian.” Acceptances (£211) to be paid on or
before 9th of September. The balance (£2O) to be
paid on or before 9th October, or nomination and
acceptance fee to be forfeited and added to the
stake.
5. Proceeds of the hail (less expenses) to be de-
voted as follows, viz.:—One-third to the Melbourne
Hospital, and two-thirds to be equally divided
amoogst competitors.
SINGER & CO.
W. J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S.W.,
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “ MALABAR” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE SERIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THE “Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thanks to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their well-acknowledged
strict, attention, coupled wl h thorough integrity,
to make the "Malabar” Consultations by lar the
most popular of any in the colonics.
At the request r.f a Urge number of our sub-
scribers we have arranged to make our Shares but
ss. each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
them Four Chances for o:ie Pound of winning
One Thou:and Pi unds.
We shall send also a single ticket to any address
on receipt of 55., which will entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus free on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed;
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Tickets s~nt by return post. Address, by letter
only,
G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
T
HE LONDON CONSULTATION COMPANY
herewith submit thi ir Programme on the
MELBOURNE CUP.
to be run for NOVEMBER 4th, 1884.
Capital, £5OOO, in 5000 shares of £1 each,
to be distributed as follows:
First Horse ..
Second „
Third
Starters Divide
Non-Starters ..
£2003
JOOO
500
750
750
£5OOO
All prizes payable 24 hours after race. Hi suit
posted to all subscribers, and advertised in leaoing
weekly papers. Manager,
THOS. THORLAND.
Globe Hotel,
ALBURI’, N.S.W.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 23.
Redman’s Estate, Canterbury.
THE BRIDGEWATER ESTATE,
on the Main Canterbury-road.
Over 200 Choice Building Sites.
MILLS and PILE have been instructed by the
Trustee to sell by public auction, on the
ground. Canterbury, on SATURDAY, ALGCST
20, at 3.30 sharp,
Over 200 CHOICE BUILDING SITES, being
the subdivision of the well-known Bridge-
water Estate, each lot having 50 FEET
FRONTAGE, by DEPTHS OF 150 to 200
FEKT.
This portion of the Estate is
FIRST-CLASS,
fronting the important Road from Canterbury to
Belmore. The situation is beautiful, and the
lots have been marked out with great care.
The Terms of the Sale will be very liberal.
The Title is tirst-class.
Lithographs are now ready for issue.
Omnibuses will leave the Railway Station, Ash-
field, at 3 p m. on the day of Sale to convey in-
tending buyers to the Ground.
MILLS and PILE, Auctioneers.
£lO,OOO. —MELBOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.i
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney,
desires to point out to the public gem-rally
the advantages to be derived from holding shares
in their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All persons,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
in the above Club, are always at liberty to inspect
the books of the Club. 2nd. Every opportunity is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
drawing, who choose to make application lor
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, one is almost sure to win
one or othcr^
Distribution
First horse
Second „
Third „
Starters divide
Non-starters
The above facts and figures speak for themsel ves>
and it will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mel-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £3OOO, by far the large-t
offered in any consultation, is a fortune, which will
be secured by investing 10s.; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round sum; our third carries off £500;
and our prizes are far in advance of all competitors
for public support. Our drawing takes place on
the Ist November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it w’ll take place before. Result of
drawing sent at once to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do:
if gold be sent, register letter, r-end addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Address-rJ. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Agent, Tattersall’s Buildings, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.
P.S. We shall, on this occasion, publish the name
of the winner of our first grani prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
great prizes in this grand Consultation.
Wm. Howard Smith & Soni
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, Wl!T\
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS®
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris.
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsviilo every Tuesday
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackar
every fortnight. 1
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONO EDINA KONOOWARR*
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
£
i
m
%
m
on
v .NVALUABLE
f°
Loss
ion
Ne
Ss
M
Sen
ie
W
a
*gSPECIA LLt
ADAPTED FO
Australian Colonies
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
E BLACKBURN, Wrestler, a letter for you
• at ttiis office-
W ANTED an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
Engraving Business. Premium required.
Applyat this Office.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARO SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
SOLE IMPORTERS OP
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRA.MPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
ssi
m
SMITH OH.O*--fiL3ST -
CRAMPTON & BRACE,
197 PITT STREET
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
. rOU'
OF all Whiskies imported, ihese are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA. p
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. F ull contents guaran e
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasf 0 •
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney-
Melbourne. Brisbane and Adelaide:


THE DIAMOND DYE i,
FOR DOMESTIC AND FANCY DYEING.
Sufficient Dye of any colour is given to dye from
one to lour pounds of any goods, accord-
ing to shade wanted.
PRICE, SIX PENCE.
Dresses, Coats, Cloaks, Wrappers, and all
Garments, can be coloured over auy
colour desired.
Shaw s, Hoods, Scarfs, Yarn Stockings, and
all Woollen articles, are easily dyed any
colour wanted.
Dresses, Ribbons, Ties, Fringes, or anything
made of silk, take the various dyes so
quickly and beautifully it is a pleasure
to u«e them. All the fashionable colours
can be had.
To Colour Cottons most of the Dyes work
well, while the Special Cotton Colours,
Blue, Yellow, Scarlet and Cardinal, are
new and vastly superior to any others.
Carpet Rags. No other Dyes so good for
Carpet Rags as the Diamond. They are
Fast and Durable, and are the Simplest,
Cheapest and Best.
Rugs. Do you ever make Rugs ? If so, you
should colour your materials with Dia-
mond Dyes.
Ribbons. You can make your old Ribbons
look like new, and colour them to match
that new hat or dress.
Feathers. Don’t be afraid to colour over
your Feathers with Diamond Dyes. They
take the colours beautifully, 'try one.
Ink. A package of Dye makes apint of Ink.
Any colour wanted cau be made.
*i* “Test a man’s profession by his prac-
tice. Physician, heal thyself!” Physicians
not only heal themselves with Kidney-Wort,
but prescribe it for ot hers for the worst cases
of biliousness and constipation, as well as
for kidney complaints. If you feel out of
sorts and don’t know why, try a package of
Kidney-Wort and you will feel like a new
creature.
Millions of packages of the Diamond
Dyes have been sold without a single com-
plaint. Everywhere they aie the favourite
Dyes.
Wholesale by Elliot Bros., and E. Prosser
and Co. Samples of 3(5 different Colours
sent on receipt of twopenny stamps, by W.
H. H. Lane, Box 181, Sydney.
No matter what your feeling or ailment is,
Hop Bitters will do you good. Prove it and see.
As a purifier, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, acts
directly and promptly, A single bottle will prove
its merits. Many thousands of people are yearly
saved from dangerous fevers by the exercise of a
little timely ‘care in properly cleansing the system
by the use of this remedy.
To practise upon the credulity of the pub-
lic to the prejudice of its health, is the worst form
of charlatanry. This is again being attempted by
scampish vendors of baa liquor, flavoured with
some cheap drug, and asserted to be similar to or
the same as Wolfe's Schnapps.
tss^1 c 7 ktti 7r^~ 3 w «~<wt
> M-^r S FT'FFt ■ °^r* J -
A. X*~*~ Jj~tr-i*-
j)iAA»JLA fv-r-sju
$ju &wr &4Aa
/VUcCtXuA
JsQniJ4‘ 7#£k? /JhdL
C~£%* $
The Autophone!
nn H E ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
-L have been appoint 3d Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone Is a wonderful little Instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &o. It
is test adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
W NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
’’’heatre Royai.—“ Pirates of Penzance”—n. 8.
Opera House—” Caste”...., ib.
Gaiety Theatre—"The Grand Duchess ”.. ib.
Academy op Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
The Comic Opera Season has been in-
augurated, and for a number of weeks, now, the
lovers of blood and thunder representations will
retire within their shells and maintain a dignified
silence, while the gay and fashionable portion of
the populace (ourself included) will revel in ethe-
real symphonies, and bask in the wavy beams of
sunny song. We went to the Theatre Royal on
Saturday night, not because we loved music, but
because the managers sent around a particular
request that we should come and see how well
they could produce the “ Pirates of Penzance,”
after it has been laid away on the shelf for a couple
of years or longer. When managers do this we
make up our mind, as a rule, that there is some-
thing wrong about the performance that they
don’t want us to notice; but we know the Royal
management so well that wo never hesitate about
accepting any of their invitations, for we have
always found them up to the standard, and some-
times quite beyond it. They mean to compliment
us, and by accepting the invitation we compli-
ment them, so that you see the courtesies are at a
stand-off between us.
* * *
Now the truth is we are not much on
music, and don’t know a chromatic scale from a
,1 ug of pickled pigs’ feet with a green scum on top;
but we enjoy good singing just the same as the
man who eats any quantity of boarding-house
hash, without knowing anything whatever of its
constituency. Our ignorance of music is often
painfully embarrassing, for we find ourselves,
after what seems to us like some grand burst of
harmony, applauding the singer to the echo,
while all around is hushed and still, except the
sound of the voice of the idiot behind us who
says “His-s-s-h,” as though he thought some-
body was about to disturb the echo and cause him
to lose one or two of its sweet vibrations. Satur-
day night we sent up a request that Mr. Turner
should sing “Old Dan Tucker,” “The Girl I left
Behind Me,” “Old John Peel,” or something of the
sort—something homelike and soul-touching—but
he didn’t pay any attention to us, and went on
singing his reformed-pirate refrains in a way that
was truly exasperating. When the people ap-
plauded we were dumb, When we applauded the
people were dumfounded, and thus in merry
change of phase the evening passed away.
• • *
And now, you want to know who played
the Pirate King? Well, it was Ned Kelly. In
order to distinguish him from the defunct bush-
ranger of that name, perhaps we ought to say Ed-
win Kelly, Esquire, for he looked so much like the
ghost of a lost chance of some kind that nobody
was certain as to who he really was. “ Could he
sing?” That’s what you ask us. “Is there a hell ?”
That’s what we ask you. If you’ll answer our
question, wo’ll answer yours. But perhaps you’ll
see at once that we are only trying to remind you
that there is considerable diversity of opinion on
all matters that are left either to the taste or in-
clination of men. We once heard Gerald Massey,
the English poet, lecturing in America on “ Why
doesn’t God kill the Devil?” We didn’t answer
the conundrum, but we could have easily
enough. As a matter of course, the Lord
must have an overseer to ultimately “run in”
folks who ask impertinent questions about his
administration and who try to blow up the church
militant with bombs of infidel dynamite. We
couldn’t help substituting Mr. Kelly’s name for
that of his Satanic Majesty when we heard him
sing; but, then, we are great on substitutes. We
remember we paid $l3OO for one over in America
to escape the draft of 1803. We wouldn’t have
done this only on the way over to the Canadian
border we were overtaken by a lot of people from
home who were armed with muskets and insisted
on our going back to look after our family.
* * *
Life is too short almost to be of any uso to
us. We have so many things to tell and so snort a
time to do it in that we hardly know how we are
to get sufficiently unloaded to “mount to the
skies,” after the stuffed club of Fate has knocked
the breath out of us and we are called upon to soar
away to our reward. We would like to tell you,
for instance, about Mr. Wbiteworth, who played
the Pirate Lieutenant in a red wig and looked
like the spook we used to tell our little brother
about at night, when we wanted him to lie still and
stop kicking the covers off the bed. Many a time
from the inner chambers of our imagination have
we summoned forth an apparition that in every
outline seemed the concentrated horror that Mr.
Whiteworthffooks in that oriek-factory wig. The
chattering of our brother’s teer.h and the palpita-
tion of his heart, however, were nothing to the
spasm of terror that clawed its way up and down
the marrow of our spinal column when wo were
confronted face to face with a living personifica-
tion of the nightmare fiend with which we ;bad
often lulled him into gentle and undemonstrative
slumber. As we said, we should like to tell you
about Mr. Whiteworth, but it would take four-
teen years to go into aii the thoughts he suggests
when he stalks before the footlights and makes the
women scream like a baby cutting its fourth tooth.
• •
We haven’t told a lie for a week. This is
something new for us; but the truth is, we occa-
sionally like a change. Perhaps the same senti-
ment animated the breast of the Royal manage-
ment when it cast Fanny Liddiard for Ruth, a
piratical maid-of-all-work. If you remember
rightly, Ruth is an unprepossessing old girl of
some forty summers’ wear, who cooked for the
pirates, and ultimately fell in love witn Frederick
(*>r. Charles Turner), a young apprentice of 31,
who couldn’t remember to have ever seen a
woman before. Freddie “cottoned” to her at
first and might have married her, only he happened
to fall across a lot of pretty maids of tender years,
and the sense of the eternal fitness of things in-
herent within the human breast began to assert
itself. The prettiest one of the lot, Mabel (Miss
Annis Montague), took a fancy to him, and the
way she warbled taffy into his right ear was good
for sore eyes to look at.
* * *
Miss Montague has a voice like an angel,
and a figure like —well, never mind; there s a
good deal of it. That’s all; and there seems to be
life, contentment, and a good appetite in every
Dart of it. Annis has a rather pretty face, too;
but the skill with whica she handles her bird-like
notes is what took our eye when the head of the
man in front of us hid the pretty ankles from
view. Her singing reminds us of Emma Abbott,
but in appearance the two are no more alike than
a piccolo and a barrel-organ with an Italian turn-
ing the crank. When she opens her mouth and
begins to trill, it seems as if a hundred canary
birds fluttered out from between her ruby lips
and went carolling away towards the eaves of the
building. Sometimes she seems to smother her
voice, and then you can hear a skylark off in the
distance somewhere, warbling away as it mounts
towards the sun, with a weather eye out for moths
and grubs.
• * *
We often wonder where some of these
singers find room for all the melody they manage
to get out of themselves; but there were several
in the cast of “The Pirates” that we didn’t wonder
over at all. There was Miss Liddiard, for instance.
Tcere wasn’t enough melody in her to crowd her
system a bit; and Johnnie Forde, who played the
Sergeant of Police, was troubled the same way.
But what Mr. Forde lacked in vocal powers, he
made up in acting, and in the splendid Irish accent
he must have acquired from a not very far-distant
ancestor. As Frederick, Mr. Chailes Turner was
hardly up to the mark. He is too stout for
an apprentice of 21, and in the love scenes he
lacks a great deal of the fervour that would char-
acterise a younger man in the presence of the
beautiful and gushing Mabel. But we have had
our fill of symphonies and pirates and things, ami
now we’re goiiig to see “ Caste.”
You have seen “Caste” before, perhaps,
and that was the reason you were not at the Opera
House on last Monday night. We were there, and
we noticed how conspicuous you were by your
absence. This was hardly fair, for the evening
was delightful, and the play “ everything that
could be desired,” as the blanket-sheet critics say.
No, the play wasn’t quite everything that could be
desired; and yet it was very fairly rendered, and
ought to have drawn a bigger crowd. This all
comes from our telling you that we were going to
the Royal on Monday night. The people went
there instead, and, of course, came away disap-
pointed at not seeing us. We have seen “Caste”
before, too ; but it was a good many thousand
miles from’ here, and the acting was considerably
better. But, perhaps, you would like to know
comething about the cast of “Caste,” and who
played the different roles.
• • m
In the first place, then, James Carden
played the Hon. George D’Alroy, and fell in love
with a pretty ballet dancer named Esther Eccles
(Miss Blanche Lewis). Mr. Carden’s acting was
almost faultless, but ho didn’t look the character.
He is too old a man, and there are too many settled
lines—too much solid character, as it were—in his
face to act and look the enthusiastic young senti-
mentalist. He didn’t put the vigour into the busi-
ness that we should have done, for instance, had a
pretty little woman like Esther loved us and fainted
in our arms when we told her we were going
away to the war. And right here we want to tell
you how Blanche Lewis faints. She may not
always do it the same way, but, Monday night, she
brought Carden his sword and buckled it on him,
all the time crying “George! Ueorgel!! Don’t
leave me!J Don’t leave me, dear!! 1” Then she fell
forward until she was certain of Carden’s arm,
when she whirled suddenly over on her back. By
this time Carden’s arm was around her waist,
and her head fell back so prettily, while her
lips looked like a bunch of red cherries
just under her nose, and Carden didn’t steal
a-one of them. And she wasn’t looking either,
for her eyes were closed. How any man of flesh
and blood could hold a pretty girl that way and
not act up to the expectations of the audience,
was more than we could make out. We have an
idea we should;havejtaken just one, even if our in-
tended mother-in-law stood over us with a kettle
of hot water. In the language of May Living-
stone, “Oh Lord Ml” But Carden didn’t. He just
looked down in her face as though he would like
to eat her, only he daren’t for fear his wife might
be looking on. Blanche is the best stage faintess
we have seen for a long time, and the natural way
she went about it reminded us of a parlour scene—
but, never mind. If we were a young lady we
should not miss seeing Blanche in this act, for a
little practice will render one*perfcct it they have
the proper sort of tuition. And, by the way, we
might just state that we shall be disengaged from
two to six every afternoon, and would be only too
happy “to rear the tender thought and teach the
young idea how to shoot,” as it were. Satisfaction
guaranteed or money refunded. N.B.—Parties
from 16 to 20 years of age need not pay the lee un-
til after the course of lessons. R.G.—Special
arrangements can be made with a limited number
of pupils to impart the instruction at their respec-
tive homes. Applications from the North Shorn
and Darling Point will receive the earliest atten-
tion.
* * *
Jenny Lee played Polly Eccles, but we
have seen her do things we liked better. She puts
just a little too much of Sam Willoughby into the
role. Polly, you know, is a ballet-dancer like her
sister, and together they’ve been supporting their
drunken old father, who is the leader of the un-
employed. Polly has a lover, too, Sam Gerridge
(Oily Deering), a plumber and gas-fitter, who has
saved up a snug little sum of money and bought
out his employer’s business. Sam is just too funny
to talk about, and he plays so naturally—especially
in the jealousy scenes—that every man in the
house who had ever been in love looked out of a
corner of his eye to see if he could discover what
it was in his wife that once made him feel that
way. We like Mr. Deering in this role better tha n
in anything we have seen him do for months, and
he looked as though he liked it better himself.
Mr. Burnett’s Captain Hawtree and Sterling
Whyte's Eccles are both deserving of more than
a passing notice, but we can only give them a lick
and a promise this time, for we’ve other sprats to
fr.v and the pan’s red hot. Sterling Whyte was so
awfully tipsy at times that the other actors had to
talk to him througn a velephone. We could smelt
his breath clear into the dress circle, and when we
came in again at the beginning of the third act we
saw everything double, and had more fun th«n a
Salvation Army war dance. Next Saturday even-
ing “Divor?ons” will be put on at the Opera
House, with Jenny Lee as Madame de Prunelles.
*■ * * *
There was a good deal of space in the
Gaiety on Saturday night when the bell rang, and
Stanley’s infants got ready for a start. Although
emptiness is such an attentive “dead-head,” tne
“perfesh” would do anything to crowd him out.
Stanley’s “push” is a juvenile one. “The most
talented and perfect ever seen in Australia.” Their
success in Melbourne, Ballarat, and Sandhurst will
be remembered when Gaunson, Mirams, and
Colonel Smith are forgotten. Sandhurst, you
know, is the place where Charles Mathews played
to an apple-orange-and-lemonade man in the
Governor’s box, and a drunken sailor in the pit.
The mariner, a weather-beaten salt, who “bossed”
the windlass on a Yarra Yarra dredge, and daily
exposed his life in the dangerous sinuosities of the
Salt Water River, had wandered into old Crowley’s,
thinking there was a dog-fight on. Mathews in-
vited this dare-devil seaman to sup with him,
carried him Bernal-street way when the feed was
over, and chucked him into a Corporation cart at
the Town Hall. Coppin, too, made a great hit in
Bendigo. He had Aif. Joseph, the bookmaker, in
the stalls; “ Gentle Annie,” Hnghy M’Call, and the
wombat that writes “Mosquito,” in the circle;
with a fireman and a policeman in the grand tier.
The policeman had to leave early. He was re-
quired to occupy a strategical position benind a
wheel-barrow in which an excited female was
hiccupping satire against the unpaid magistracy.
“ Aif.,” too, had to go to book some bets against
a “ stiff ’un ” for the Cup.
• * «
But we must get back to the juveniles.
And here we may say at once that the pleasing
freshness of their young unfrayed voices recon-
ciled us to a good many shortcomings. Some of
the wee things were mere babies, but the way
tuey joined in the fun and seemed to enjoy it,
made white-headed old sinners in the audience-
hoary dodgers who were living in respectability
on the jobs they had “ put up ” in their prime-
piebald with envy. Oh, youth, youth! There
was one little chap behind who seemed to lead the
“brawls,” and banged himself about in a manner
that augurs well for his future as a corner-man.
This kid should be taken in hand at once, taught
all the gruesome conundrums that have swelled
the annual crop of suicides since the introduction
of nigger minstrelsy, and then obliged to take a
horrible oath that he’d never repeat them. This
is only fair to the child, for otherwise he will cer-
tainly drift into the cork line, bo filled with
“original” humour that was bald-headed oefore
Brian Boru, and then probably brained with a
quart-pot by some wrinkled bushman, who
dropped in to hear something fresh after a fifty
years’ attendance on Central Australian bullocks.
* * *
The Grand Duchess was the piece. There
were some girls in it—just stepping across the
border-line into womanhood—who would raise an
anchorite’s pulse a few beats to the minute, and
some who wouldn’t. Among the former was
Wanda (Miss Stanley.) Miss Hodge carrolled, as
Fritz, in a voice pleasant as a tiny brook when the
daisies on the margin tell it to attend to business,
as the Spring had again come round. Master
Lane's General Boom was what the reporters—
who devote their days to chronicling such events
as “to-day, at the intersection of George and
Market streets a horse attached to a spring-cart,
&c.,” and their nights to criticising the drama—
would call an “ even performance.” It was
“even” more than this. It was meritorious-hut
in a certain way. You iaussheo when >ou saw tins
inlaut decline a pinch of ordinary snuff, lire otf a
pistol as big as a howitzer, smell the smoke, and
say it was the only mixture he could stomach,
lou grieved at the perfunctory manner he ap-
peared to sieze some of the situations. But,
through the whole performance, the wonder
uppermost in your mind was, not that the children
had failed to reach a very high standard, but that
they had succeeded in reaching any. We have
left the Grand Duchess herself (Miss Childs) to the
last, and intend leaving her till we see more of her
during the week.
** * *
Professor and Mrs. Bali win continue to
hold down the boards at the new Masonic Hall,
Ca6tlereagh-Btreet. We dropped in the other
night again to see the new change of programme,
and got so deeply interested in the spirit business
that we forgot to go out between the aots to see a
man. A show has to be mighty good when it gets
a bold on us like that. The chnnpe is for the
better, because we had just about mastered the
elementary lessons in thought-reading, and could
do them almost as well as the Froretsor could
himsell. Tho other night, however, he told the
numbers on a lot of bank-notes in the pockets of
people amongst the audienco. Wo asked him to
try that on us. Ho did. He tried several times,
and then he told us that we hadn’t bad a bank-
note in our pocket for over three years. Then he
remarked that our own number used to be “77,”
and asked us how we managed to get away from
New Caledonia, and a lot of impertinent thiugs
like that. We should sue. him for libel, only we
know he’d plead that it was the spirits that
were talking and not he. After all wo feel
inclined to forgive the Professor, for the
poor fellow has a mighty hard time of it in
this world. We know that he is fond of
fun, and would like to get out amoDgst ’em
occasionally; but Mrs. Baldwin is so confoundedly
clairvoyant that she sees everything he does, and
sits up for him with a stuffed club. Even such a
subtle science as the Baldwins are now investi-
gating has its drawbacks, it seems, and unalloyed
happiness doesn’t appear to be vouchsafed to
mortal kind. Mr. Lacey’s ventriloquism was so
amusing that the audience nearly broke its ribs.
One fat old Irish lady who sat in front of us sang
out for him to “Sthopl st.hop till I get me second
wind !” She was evidently a sister of the Widow
O’Brien. It’s funny how mannerisms in speech
run in the same family, isn’t it ? The performance
ended with Mrs. Baldwin’s ghost stance, when the
committee each saw his mother-in-law, and that
broke up the meeting.
** * *
We have been to see the Minstrels again,
not because we have wanted anything to laugh at
particularly, but becauso we wanted to take Frank
Hussey’s measure as an artist. We had heard so
much about him, and the Colonel had advertised
him so thoroughly, that we began to think tho
bone-rattler must have improved wonderfully
since we saw him years ago. This is the first, time
we've been fooled in six months. It was the same
old Hussey, he’s brought along the same old jokes,
and he looks like the same old simpleton—on the
stage, of course. Fancy a man coming all the
way around the world to ding into the e»rs of a
Sydney public such old, dog-eared, moss-backed,
bald-headed, moth-eaten stuff as the story of
Tobias and Biancas? This was one of the first
things our grandmother sang after being born.
Listen:—
“ There was a man who had two sons,
And these two sons were brothers;
Tobias was the name of one,
Biancas was the other’s.”
Just to help the “ celebrated great ” out, we’ll give
him another stanza that he seems to have for-
gotten, or never heard, or something:—
And these two boys d d have a horse,
And this f id horse was blind;
Tobias, ho rode on before,
Biancas, on behind.
Johnny Cowan is just about the same as he u?ed
to be yeax-3 ago; but give us the old boys, Keenan
and Bent, after all. When they run out of jokes
and gags, they’ve got brains enough to get up
something new, and when they feel bad, or
haven’t time, they turn to old files of The Bulle-
tin and read up. Of course, the specialists. Car-
roll, the double-voiced warbler, and Moynham, the
Girard, evoke any amount of applause, and are
an attractive feature on the programme. And
then the singing, too, is worth going to hear,
while some of the farces can be laughed at, if
you’re in a good humour after dinner, and go out
occasionally between the acts.


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Revs. Yarrington and Stead, of M -
land, havo told ttao brethren that ‘ no Christian
could attend a theatre.”
The Milton paper, with its thirty-one
editors, has set its dismal face against cricket-
playing on a Sunday. The Wesleyan editor has his
Innings now. After him wo suppose tho Orange
editor will take his turn at the quill, and the paper
will revel in Kentish lire and gory imprecations
directed against the poor old Pope. But when the
publican editor-who, of course, has neither beliel
nor trust in anything—takes tho reins, there will
be such a wild stampede into the regions of bitu-
minous blasphemy and burning marl as will com-
pletely scatter toinflniteblar.es the effoots of the
previous pfety. The knowledge of this makes us
more lenient on the inspirod idiot who writes the
following:—
“ At Yatteyatab on that day
(Sunday is the day I mean),
Tho cricket club will have a play.
With bat and ball upon the green:
Should the day be not the thing,
(A little too damp for such fun)
They play the game of “ Put the Stone,”
Or do a little jump and run.
This is the way they pass the day,
Prom police surveiflance far away."
We meant to be severe upon him; but what ir the
use? “Who breaks a fly upon a wheel?” Who
smashes a cheese-mite with a sledge-hammer?
Therefore a few lines to let him down gently:—
We Know your sort; your seot is strong
In preachers full of gloomy glee,
Who raise the pious psalm, and song,
With outspread palms of blessing free—
Then stretch them out to clutch the fee;
How well we know them, with their long
Horse-faces of hypocrisy 1
But you, poor thing of gum and paste,
Are weak indeed-and just as well;
This is your safety—that no waste
Of war the fiends make for a shell;
Around your soul no fight shall swell—
The devil, if we know his taste,
Would hardly give it room in hell
* * *
All the people of Melbourne should get on
their hind legs and laugh now. This is the first
chance they have had this many a day, and before
the next arrives grass may be over all. “Timo-
theus,” who does the Parliamentary funny busi-
ness for Tuppence, has, in tue fulness of time,
cracked a joke. Ha, ha! Here it is. You know
there are two Maddens in the House .’ Well, jou
see, last week “Timotheus” was there, and he
was looking around the benches, and, as he was
looking, it all at once burst upon him that all the
members-ob, ha, ha! We can’t help it-lookod to
him like mad ones!— ha, ha, a-a-al If Victoria
doesn’t claim front place now for the superior
energy of its wit, the world will marvel.
• # *
Sometime ago we mentioned with wonder
a poundkoeper in Queanbeyan who had never seen
the railway or the sea, and was still happy. He
has seen the railway since, and is no happier. Says
that it is the broad road that leads to blazes-or
words to that effect. Believes that it is intimately
connected with weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Thinks there is too much damming and blasting
going on to be productive of a steady demand for
harps and crowns in the dim hereafter. And there
we several dams and a lot of dynamite on the
works. Since then, we hoar from a correspondent
that there is a stock inspector in Coonabarabran
who has passed the meridian of life without seeiDg
Sydney, Melbourne the Murrumbidgeo, the Mur-
ray, or the sea, ana . t retains his appetite. He
weighs over fourtoe ? ne, and can s«y the Lord’s
Prayer backwards, t , ! is not open to bet he can
say it the other way without going into training.
He is also a good judge of stock and a better judge
of whisky. Only wants to see M'Elhone, and
then to die. We think he had better die first. We
have seen M'Elhone, and live; but everybody has
not our iron constitution.
• * *
They have little respect for civic dignity
in Cooma. The Mayor of that hilarious hamlet
was present at the Bachelors’ Annual Ball, lately,
and, while [making a spirited speech, laid his hat
down, which one of the single gentlemen, with
ready humour, immediately sat upon and crushed,
and afterwards—to point the joke, as it were—put
his fist through. The wrath of the Mayor arose'
and then proceedings were about to terminate in
gore. Such a conclusion, however, was happily
avoided by the single gentleman who had com-
mitted tho sacrilege making a handsome apology
and explaining that he had forgotten what year it
was: thought it was last year, and that the hat
bolonged to the former Mayor. This explanation
was received with cheers, and the local undertaker
—who happened to drop in during the trouble-
retired in confusion.
* * *
They are going to start a Temperance
Advocate in Newcastle. If this converts any-
body, we trust that the promoters of the paper
will be spiritually benefltted. Tt’s funny, but tho
most drunken comp, we ever knew used to set up
a temperance paper. His hiccup was roaonant;
and when at his work, he was all tho time under
the impression that he was helping to set up The
Bulletin. He was humoured in this idea; and
when the truth began to dawn on him, they used
to load him up with a billyfull of rum. Unlike a
cannon, when not primed he would go off.
• • •
A Shroud stanza:
“ This is the baby's bedtime;
Dimplechin climbs on my knee,
With, ‘ Mamma, I's dest as s’eepy
An’ tired as I tan be; ’
So I take up the little darling,
And undress the weary feet
That have been making, since daylight,
A music busy and sweet.”
Let’s see; where is it. Oh, hanging up behind the
bombazine skirt we use as a dish-drier. If you
don’t mind, Angelina. Thanks!
Our notion you can’t over-ride
That this verso is most awful sick;
A bard who once sang like this died,
His fatal illness was-a brick.
* * *
The Scotch General Assembly has been
revelling in a good deal of pious indecency at some
of its recent sittings, and the unco guid, who
daren’t attend a Divorce Court except in disguise,
have had a grand time of it over the case of a cer-
tain Indian missionary, whoso “ conversion ” of
tho female natives is alleged to have been of too
tender a nature. The hearing of tho charges
brought against this giddy dispenser of the gospel
lasted two days, and everything went along
smoothly and delightfully until old Dr. Scott,
prosecuting on behalf of tho Missions’ Com-
mittee, came to some letters which he pro-
VACANCIES.
PITZSMITH AND O’BROWN CAN’T UNDERSTAND WHAT M’FINN SAW ABOUT THEM
THAT HE MADE THE MISSES GREEN GIGGLE SO CONSUMEDLY.
posed to merely place on tho table as they
were “too indecent to be even commented
upon.” Then a row began. The meenisters and
elders comprising the outside public didn’t feel
disposed to miss details so congenial to their godly
minds, and uttered one unanimous, imploring cry
of “Read!” while the feminine portion of tho
audience, headed by Lady Aberdeen, perceiving
that it wouldn’t exactly be the thing to listen to
unveiled filth, sorrowfully gathered together their
silks and sables in a hasty retreat. Next the
Moderator suggested that the public be excluded,
and then the already intlamed passions of the
white-chokored mob found free vent in howling
against the injustice of chousing them out
of a good spicy thing in order that the chosen
few might enjoy it in secret. The protests availed
not, however, for the Moderator carried his point,
although, as it appears, “many of the clergymen
had to be almost forced from the hall.” Whether
Dr. Scott then read out the spicy epistles to the
blushing “brethren,” making appropriate com-
ments thereon, or whether the “ brethren ” had a
scramble for them, or made a private circulating
library of them, is not exactly known. Anyway,
the dismissal of the missionary was carried by a
large majority, and he—quite as disgusted with the
Assembly as it with him—“announced his intention
of resigning all connection with the Church.”
Woe is upon the land—the Banaualand, we
mean. The new “ cullered ” labour law comes into
force on Ist September, on and after which date
the first families, who now give a tone to their
afternoon drives by perching blacking-bottle
Apollos in the stern of their “ kerridges,” wi’!
have to drop the luxury. Touching the planta-
tion trouble, the evidence given by the “ boys ” at
the recent inquiry, when thoroughly boiled down,
resolves itsen' into three grievances, viz.. “Too
littee ki-ki, too muebee work, an’ sposee Kanaka
no plentee work, boss come along and kick him
behind till make ’im nose bleeu.”
Just 80. ye holy men of God;
And while yoilr pious hearers nod.
As o’er your drowsy theme you throw
Tour drowsier drone, in ceaseless now,
And nourish souls with ancient rot
Of Balaam’s ass and Mrs. Lot,
And flout us all with reasons stale
For Jonah’s antics in the whale:
O, yes, within oUr cushioned pew.
By all means, let us list, to you
Learn all about the future state,
And plank our silver in the plate;
Away with Shakespeare’s feeble plays-
Give us instead Awmens and Yeas;
Let music flee, and glittering shows
Give way to psalms sung through the nose.
Let Yar ring tons and Steads increase.
And for grand opera give us geese;
Away, ye Hamlets, Juliets, all.
That Yarrlngton and Stead may bawl
How nine of every ten must go
From life to dwell in hopeless woe;
And let us learn, ere ’tis too late,
That stalls and pits are but hell's gate,
And when ye hear the prompter's bell.
Ah, learn, dear friende, it rings for hell.
Political
Points
In India it is reported that the Duke of
Connaught will return to England directly, with
the view of preparing to succeed Lord Ripon as
Governor-General. The Duke will have neen over
twelve months in India by that time, and will, of
course, he entirely competent to preside over the
destinies of the country. Yet a seven years’ ap-
prenticeship is requisite to learn brassfounding.
An aptitude for terrible quotations is not
the least among Honry George’s talents. The
motto he has adopted for his work, “ Social Pro-
blems,” illustrates this. It is simply “ Then shall
they also answer Him, saying ‘ Lord, when saw we
thee an hungered, or athirst, or a stranger, or
naked, or sick, or in prison?’ Then shall Ho an-
swer them, Raying ‘Verily I say unto you. Inas-
much as ye did it not to one of the least of these,
ye did it not to me.’ ”
Professor Newman calculates that, if Eng-
land were properly owned and properly cultivated,
it would support one hundred and lifty millions in
comfort. As matters stand, it has but thirty-five
millions of inhabitants, of whom it is estimated
iwenty millions have not, at the beginning of any
one week, one shilling more than will suffice to keep
them to the end of that week: while perhaps ten
millions never know one week that they may not
be starving the next; and over five millions do
halt starve all thoir lives.
The Duke of Cambridge, having compli-
mented the fouuder of the Corpi ot Commission-
aires— public message-runners, who are all old
soldiers a con do a exchange compliments the rat
old Duke by reminding him that if tin army were
relieved of popinjay soldiers such as his own left-
hand sons, the Fitzsreorges, there would be ample
means to provide pensions for veterans who have
seeu service, thus relieving them from the neces-
sity of exposing their old bones to all weathers
and trotting heavily about in their stiff-jointed old
age.
There is, in the London papers, further
reference to the preposterous historical picture
purporting to represent the battle of Tel-el-Kebir,
with Connaught fiercely leading a charge. One
remarks that “Of course, we all know that
from the safe position allotted to them that little
else but smoke and dust could be seen; such a
thing as an enemy was all but, if not quite, invisi-
ble. The present picture brings to mind the show-
man’s description of the picture of Waterloo to
the little boy. ‘ And there ye sees the Duky Vel-
lington a valking among the bullets and cannon
balls, and him not caring vone straw.’ ”
A London paper suggests that as Green-
wich and Chelsea pensioners, who have personally
done something to deserve their pensions, are
compelled to wear livery, and as the pensioners
of parishes, the old folks in the work-houses, and
the children in the charity schools are required to
wear a distinctive garb, it would be only even
justice to require the receivers of perpetual pen-
sions, who never did anything to deserve the
money, to wear uniforms also. The suggestion is
founded on a misconception. The badge would
not be regarded as one expressing the degradation
really submitted to by the wearers. It would im-
mediately be envied, and regarded as a token of
distinction, as signifying possession of money.
The Queen annually receives £619,379;
Prince of Wales, £120,183; Duke of Edinburgh,
£2#,596; Duke of Connaught, £26,500; Princess
(jhristiaD, £6000; Princess Jbouise, £6OOO ; Duchess
of Cambridge, £6OOO ; Princess Augusta, £3OBO ;
lhike of Cambridge, £22,203; Princess Teck, £soot;
Prince Edward of Saxe-Wei mar, £3357; Prince
Deimngen, £1460; Prince Victor of Hohenlobe,
£1260. The Duke of Albany received £25.350 per
annum. 'Total, £872,368. We don’t suppose the
Duke of Cambridge has any more military talent
than General M'Tver, whom he much resembled a
the same age in his fondness for barmaids. Genera’
MTver will fro and light anything for £lOOO per
annum, and will stop and see it out, which Cam-
bridge did not do at the Crimea. As to Connaught,
he may be worth it. But even in Australia, where
ability of any kind meets fair reward, we can get
a young man of fair average talents in any line for
from £2 per week up to £350 pet annum.
The true lesson of political economy is
being rapidly and widely taught. A penny paper,
published weekly in London and circulating
among the middle class chiefly, as distinguished
from the artizan class, remarks:— *’To put the
matter in plain terms, we have too many outdoor
paupers, and we have to keep these idlers and
their families. Then we have a vast horde of in-
door paupers. These are the superfluous Civil
Servants, whom we maintain by the thousand.
Next come the paupers in red and blue, our highly
paid military and naval ornaments, gentlemen of
the review and useless pleasure cruise order ; and
so we might go on ad infinitum, we as really pay
for the Monte Carlo spendthrifts, Loras Dashaway
and Fitznoodle, as we do for the support of the
poor in St. Pancras Workhouse. We as really pay
for the villa at St. John’s Wood, in which Lord
Steyne keeps a ballet girl, as we do for the increase
in the fortunes of a millionaire stockbroker. The
result is poverty of the deepest and mo«t doleful
kind. Never before in the history oi our great
country was there such an ostentatious display of
wealth among the wealthy, and n./e.' was there
before such a. groaning deep poverty io be seen in
the centres of all large towns, as at the present
moment.”
Freemasonry in England has degenerated
almost into a branch of snobbism. The art exer-
cised by the monarchist class in joining the Order
sealed its doom as a distinct organization indepen-
dent of the political or social organizations of any
country. The Prince of Wales is Grand Master, or
Past Grand Master, of English Freemasons, and
the State clergy have got a g rip of the Order as
chaplains and so .forth. The latest and clearest
evidence of the decadence of the Order from its
sometime independence is iurnished by the at-
tempt that is to be made to expel Mr. Bradlaugh
from its ranks. The reason not alleged, but inci-
dentally referred to, is that Brother Bradlaugh
has written to Brother Guelph (the Prince of
Wales) reminding him of his obligations as a
Mason and reproaching him with the disregard of
them which, as a matter of fact, his station in-
volves. The reason which is alleged is scarcely
less justifiable by the spirit and constitution of
Masonry. It is simply the spirit of religious perse-
cution. Mr. Bradlaugh’s expulsion is sought on
the plea that his ideas are at variance with what is
alleged to be a fundamental article of Free-
masonry, viz., the acknowledgment of the
Supreme Architect of the Universe. When the
mail left England, it was expected that at the next
meeting of the Grand Lodge the Earl of Carnarvon
would call attention to the subicct.
It is asserted in some quarters that, in
consequence of the death of that paltry “Mar-
malade,” as the Paris wits used to call the dissi-
pated son and heir of the King of Holland, Ger-
many will, on the death of that KiDg, be entitled
to claim the succession to the Crown for the
German duchv of Nassau. This would mean in-
corporation of Holland iu the German Empire,
and presumably all the Dutch colonies would then
become German also. The effect of such a union
would be, firstly, to confirm the superiority of
Germany over rranee to a point which only a war
of “ impossible ” luck on the French side could
remove. That is to say, that the addition of
Holland to Germany would make the numerical
and strategical superiority of Germany too great
for reasonable doubt that, in a war with France,
the deity who fights on the side of the biggest
battalions would be on the side of Germany. The
union would be significant even here in Australia.
In addition to transferring Java from a very quiet
and easy ration to a very active and pushing one,
it would invest in Germany the unquestionable
claim which Holland at present holds to the
Northern half of New Guinea. Even if the suc-
cession of Germany be prospective, it seems un-
likely that so keen a man as Bismarck will quietly
stand by and see any dealings with New Guinea
which may affect the future rights of Germany in
that region, without having a word or two to say.
“ The Chiel,” who writes the leading para-
graphs in Vanity Fair, is a pithy penmen. He is
a stroDg Tory, but in criticising the present Liberal
administration, frequently employs Radical argu-
ments, which he invariably puts in a telling way.
He remarks, for example, that “ the Times, in
recording the rumour that thirty thousand Gailas
are to march from Abyssinia into the Soudan, de-
scribes them as desiring to exterminate their Arab
neighbours, and justly compares this newest ex-
ploit of the Government to the employment of the
North American Indians against our revolted
Colonists. This Abyssinian invasion cannot but
sfi i pa ss in wicked ness everything that has preceded
it in the Egyptian burglary. . . When viewed m
the light of the Law of Nations, the bringing of
Abyssinians into the Seuth-eastern Soudan is
utterly monstrous. With whom are the Abys-
sinians to suppose themselves at war? The Soudan
does not belong to England. England has for-
bidden Egypt to recover it. England does not
recognise it as a part of Turkey. She has virtually
declared that it belongs to the inhabitants—
‘ a people rightly struggling to be free ’ [Mr. Glad-
stone’s own words.— Ed. B ] under the leadership
of the Mahdi. England has sent no Envoy to treat
for the retreat of the Egyptian garrisons, which
she has forbidden her Egyptian puppets to help
even to retire. If there is any connected move-
ment in the matter, it means that Abyssinia—a
Christian State—is to annex the Soudan, perhaps
accompanying the annexation, as the Times sug-
gests, by the extermination of the Mohammedan
inhabitants.”
The result of the case, Regina v. Brad-
laugh, in which it was sought to recover a penalty
from the member of Northampton for voting in
the House of Commons without having taken the
oath—which he had taken irregularly and would
have taken regularly had he not been denied an
opportunitv-has been published by cable. The
Court decided against Bradlaugh. The Lord Chief
Justice—the same that Sir Jimmy Martin thinks so
THE LORD C[?] JUSTICE.
little of—presided. It is interesting to note that
prior to the trial Sir H. D. vv olff, one of Lord Kan-
dolph Churchill's two followers, objected to toe
Lord Chief Justice presiding, because his Lordship
had in a letter written “ that it was an ill-fortune
to many men that the cause of true religion shouio
seem to be concerned with the legal success or
defeat of a particular person whose legal success
or defeat was really to the cause of true religion a
matter of supreme indifference.”
It is singular that Mr. Bradlaugh should
be a stout opponent of Henry George’s system of
political economy. The opinions of those who arc
generally understood to share Mr. Bradlaugh®
opinions in ali essential points, seem very closely
related to Mr. George’s opinions. It may be dis-
tinguished that they recognise the same evils anu
the same certainty that some reparative
must be undertaken, and if long aeferred is lik e *l
to be convulsive; wnile at the same time they oe
not assent to Mr. George’s proposals as to
nature of the remedy. Early in June last w


r'-tioe in the Rochester and Chatham journal, Mrs.
I'emnt lectured in Brompton on “Social Reform
t>.socialism” to a large audience of both sexes,
ard among those on the platform was Miss Brad-
jsugh. Mrs. Besant put forward that large mea-
Kun-s of reform were required in society, and
contended that in a countrv where such enormous
werlth existed et one end of society and such
extreme poverty at the other, they must either
have Hadical reform or revolution. The land
question was then gone into, and the lecturer
suggested that great reform was necessary here.
Mrs. IJpsant put three suggestions to her hearers,
which she considered should be carried out. First,
they should work for compulsory division of land
amongst members of a family at the death of the
head of that family, so that a man should not have
the power to make one child a millionaire and
The Rival Babies.
NOT MUCH DIFFERENCE AFTER ALL.
pauperise the others. The next point was the
compulsory cultivation of suitable land; and,
lastly, that a graduated land lax should be estab-
lished. In support of this point, Mrs. liesant said
that a land tax of 4s. in the £ was the result of an
assessment 200 years ago, but now many were
really only paying on the whole of their land about
three-farthings in the £, and in many cases only a,
halfpenny. If land owners now paid 4« m the£
on their estate, the Land Tax would realiz° fifty
million pounds.
The running-down episode, to which we
briefly referred last wee?’, is dealt with, in very
nearly the same spirit, in a London weekly just to
hand, which says:—“lt is seldom that, a more dis-
graceful case comes under our notice than that
which occurred in Plymouth Sound on Sunday
last weea. It is upon a par with the one which
happened when the Queen’s steamer, commanded
by that lubberly German, Prince Leiningen, ran
Into and sank a yacht in the Solent some years
ago. What makes the affair worse is the fact that
a scandalous attempt has been made to prove that
the occupants of the sailing-boat which was cut
down by the Vivid were to blame: but the facts
speak for themselves. On the Sunday afternoon
in questiou, the Port Admiral’s steam yacht, Vivid,
was engaged in conveying the Duke of Edinburgh
to make a private visit at Mount Wis-j. At the
same time, a party of seven persons were cruising
about the Sound in a sailing-boat. Everyone
knows that, according to the recognised rules of
seamanship, the steamer should have made way
for the boat; but, regardless of rule, the
Vivid kept on her course, and crushed the tiny
sailing-boat to splinters with her paddle-wheels.
Three of the occupants were fortunately rescued
by passing boats, one was baulq*! up on the Vivid
by a boat-hook, while another was caught in her
paddle-box. Unfortunately, the remaining two
were drowned, ami we shall watch with some
interest to se- the verdict of the jury in the ease.
In the ease of the Royal Yacht, under the com-
mand of the Queen’s relative, a jury, chiefly com-
posed of Government contractors, returned a
verdict out of all character with the evidence, and
it remains to be seen whether a Devonshire jury
areas open to official influence as a Hampshire one.
Possibly no pei sonal blame a taches to the Duke of
Edinburgh, but a severe lesson ougnt to be taught
to the sycophantic nincompoops who seem to sup-
pose that every rule of the sea is to be reversed
when the Duke of Edinburgh is going out to lunch
or the Queen is anxious to arrive at her destination
without loss of time.”
At the present time the theories of Henry
George are undergoing the ordeal which invari-
ably attends the first announcements of ideas
which are novel and striking. The time will come
when the name of George will carry with it the
samo weight which to-day attaches to those of
Adam Hmith, Ricardo, and Mill. For reasons which
Mr. George himself fully discusses in his great work.
Progress and Poverty,” his principles have had
to contend with opposition which did not in an
e 9 u ?; £?kree delay the acceptance of the views
ot Malthus and the other politico-economists
whom we have mentioned. The name of John
btuart Mill, for example, is warranty for the truth
ot almost any proposition which can be shown to
have been supported by that philosopher. And it
has sometimes been urged against George that he
goes a great deal further than Mill, writing on the
same topics, ever went. The latter, indeed, argued
that, with respect to private property in land, the
enhanced value derived, not from any exertion on
the part of the owner, but from the labours
of the general community, and to which he gave
the designation of “tne unearned increment,'’
should belong to the community at large. Even
this very modest theory was, when propounded,
vehemently assailed by the organs and advocates
of property. Still, as time has elapsed, the in-
fluence of Mill’s name has extended even to that
proposition, and few venture now to dispute i<s
cogency. It may surpr'se, and certainly will
stagger many who, while vehemently ridiculing
the arguments of a new prophet whose reputatiou
has yet to be consolidated, bow somewhat ser-
vilely before an established reputation such as
that of John Stuart Mill, that the central theory of
Henry George was not only not unknown to Mill,
but. had been definitely approved and endorsed by
him. As perpetually occurs atthe dawn of a great
discovery, be it in ethics, in economics, or in me-
chanics, the same idea has simultaneously occurred
to more than one thinker, in different parts of the
world, differently circumstanced, and without
communication. In the year 1868, when Henry
George, a journeyman compositor in San Fran-
cisco, was moved by the circumstances of
tne country in which he lived to re-
volve in his mind the problem of the
diminution of ease and wages for the working
man simultaneously with the increase of wealth
for the fortunate few, a young man working be-
tween the stilt® of the plough on his father’s farm
in Aberdeenshire, evoh ed from his surroundings
similar impressions, and following up the train of
reasoning set in motion, arrived at identically the
conclusion which Henry George discovered
as the u I ttmate goal ot his reflections. Mr. Mill beinu-
Ivlo hkhcet authority on all economic subjects
the younir Scotch ploughman was prompted to
address himself by letter to that gentleman, with
a lull statement of the conceptions which were
stirnny his mind. The following is a verbatim
copy of the letter addressed to John Stuart Mill:—
“ Oakbank, near Aberdeen, 17th March, 1808.
. “Sir,—Will you kindly excuse me, while T in
trudeon your notice, a ploughman s solution of
the land question. A verv (treat, deal has been
spoken auo written upon this subject, of late with
special reference to Ireland ; but it is to he re
gretted that few opinions have been offered bv
those so nearly interested in the class to which T
belong—the real tillers of the soil Philosopher*
and statesmen have propounded their pet schemes


OUR LITTLE BOY.
Mr. Editor,—We feel it our duty to write you
what the Cuticura remedies have ooae for our
little boy, who has been terribly aftlicteo with Sait
Kbeum, Scrofula, and Erysipelas ever since he was
born, and nothin# we could give him Helped him
until we tried Cuticura, which, after using - quite
a quanity, began to help him and gradually cured
him, uutil he is now as fair as any child. His body
was completely covered, and his face and hands
swelled very badly. We had no comfort with him:
it w..s so much work to take care of him, and he
suffered so. We began to treat him when he was
18 months old, giviDg him at first 10 drops of the
Cuticura Resolvent. at a time, bathing in warm
water and Cuticura soap, and applying Cuticura
carefully to the entire body. He is now % years
old, and is perfectly well. We have not written be-
fore because we thought it might appear again;
but it has not, and we are very thankful.
MR. and MRS. EVERETT STEBBIN i,
Belchertown, Mass
Remember Hop Bitters never does harm to
the smallest child but good, always and continually.
See and read.
It is te e Business of Everyone having
a Cold, to treat it promptly and properly until it is
got rid of—intelligent experience fortunately pre-
senting a curative in Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant,
taoroughly adapted to remove speedily all Goughs
aad Colds—allay any exciting inflammation of the
Throat or Lungs, and remove the distressing symp-
toms of Asthma or Pleurisy, To be hud of all
druggists and storekeepers, and wholesale by
El iott Ui 0,, Pit i-sti e i, yducj.
for solving the difficulty, but hitherto, so far as I
know, none have had the courage to lay the axe to
the real root of the malady which is consuming
us. Certainly, if I gather from the criticisms or
the press on your recent pamphlet on Ireland
anything like an accurate idea of what you pur-
pose doing with the soil of that country, I have no
hesitation in saying that the measures you propose,
instead of diminishing, would tend considerably to
aggravate the evil. And that speedily. An Irish
farmer having become proprietor of his holding,
and having expended all his capital, thereon dies.
To whom does the property go ? To one member
of the family? Such an arrangement would not
be consistent with equity, and a scheme built on
any otner foundation will not last. To all mem-
bers of the family equally? That would result in
a mischievous subdivision of holdings, and conse-
quent lamine in case of a failure'of crops. Is one
to get the soil and pay its value to his brothers and
sisters, less his own share ? To do so would take
all the time which a son usually survives a parent.
There would be little actual difference between
this and paying rent. Tho only advantage would
be fix!tv of tenure, and that can be secured by
making the exaction of rent, for an agricultural
sub ject, illegal except under a lease for a period of
years. It appears to me, tho great mistako arises
from regarding land as property, in the sense in
which that word is usually employed. I lay down
this principle, the foundation of all property is
labour. A watch or a chair is the product of man s
labom.and is, therefore, his property; but neither
the air which we breathe, nor the soil which we
till, is the product of man’s labour, and cannot be
his property. Mankind have a claim to a life in-
terest in the land under the general charter given
to tho creature by the Creator, but one man is not
entitled to claim any portion of the soil, to the ex-
clusion of his fellows. A people under a consti-
tutional Governme it, may veit the management
of the soil in that Governm rat, as trustees for be-
hoof of the nation, but to make a gift of, or sell
any portion thereof, is clearly beyond the com-
bined power of King, Lords and Commons; for a
future generation have an equal title to the land
with the present, as also the present with those
gone before it. A strong argument for the truth
of the hypothesis, from which I have been argu-
ing, may be found in this. Moral laws do not con-
flict. If a person claiming to be a landed pro-
prietor is entitled to say to hi» fellow-men, ‘You
shall not live on my property,’ clerrly all landed
proprietors must be allowed to do the si'me. A
principle is not changed by the number of its ad-
herents; but then what Is to Decome of the rest of
mankind. They cannot live on any land contrary
to the wishes ot its so-called owner. For if he has
the moral right to say ‘not here,’ no one can have
a moral right to gainsay him. What are they to
do ? To live in the world is immoral, and to put
themselves out of it is equally so. If, therefore,
1 inded property, so-called, has the rights usually
claimed for it, moral laws meet in contlict. But
this is an utter impossibility. It may be alleged
that the rights of property are restricted by the
rights of the public. Allowing the absolute jus-
tice of this, I do not see now it can be made out
that the vesting of tho whole soil of a country in
a few of its inhabitants, lor their own behoof, is
for the good of the whole. 1 opine it would be
more consistent with common sense to suppose
that it would be of a greater advantage to the
public that the whole rental of the country should
be applied for public purposes. And this Is the
simple scheme I would propose for Ireland. And
not for Ireland only. Instead of making the
farmers landowners, as you propose, I would, to
affirm the principle already suggested ‘ that labour
is the foundation of all property ’—that land is con-
sequently not property—that the people even are
not owners of the soil—that they are, however,
authorized under the greatest of all charters to
cultivate it in accordance with the rules of good
husbandry, leaving it to succeeding generations,
as far as may be. undoteriorated or unreduced, let
commissioners or trustees be appointed to manage
the land. They can avail themselves of what
machinery already exists in the persons of estate
agents and factors. And let the whole revenue
derivable from the land, after paying all expenses,
be applied for the benefit of the Irish people.”
And hereunder follows Mr. Mill’s reply, from
which it will be seen that those who have, like the
B.M. Herald writers, thus far scouted Mr. Henry
George’s ideas with superior scorn, as being the
fantastic fallacies of an impudent nobody, have
unconsciously been equally addressing their super-
cilious superficiality and shoddy satire at John
Stuart Mill :
“ March 21st, 1868.
“Dear Sir,—Your opinion, that the property in
the land of the country ought to have been re-
served by the State, and the rent devoted to the
public expenses In lieu of taxation, is an old
opinion of mine, and of my lather before me. Both
of us have indicated this opinion in our writings,
but it is useless advocating it. However, if nations
ever retract the alienation of this great source of
revenue, it can only be as a very distant result of
future improvement in their ideas. In default of
this, I have advocated for Ireland the settlement
of land ownership, whioh seems to me best suited
to the circumstances of that country, and best
adapted to produce a great and rapid improve-
ment of the people in industry, self-dependence,
and frugality. If fixity of tenure h s that effect
(which it has seldom failed to have in the countries
where it has been tried), the difficulties which you
anticipate will disappear almost of themselves.
Long leases can never be equal in their effect to a
perpetuity, and they generally lead to a purging
of the land, instead of improving it, when tbe
lease draws towards its close.
“ Yours, very faithfully,
“ A. Fernie, Esq.” “ J. S. Mill.
It only remains to be mentioned that the Scotch
ploughboy of 1868, A. Fernie, is now a respectable
business man in this city, and is no other than
Mr. Fernie, the well-known, energetic, and clear-
beaded manager of the Australian business of the
ginger Manufacturing Company.
* * *
In the Spanish Chamber of Deputies, two
members declared that, notwithstanding the Par-
liamentary Oath of Allegiance to the King, the
Republican party assertß its right to defend its
aspirations in the oountry The proposition that
England should advance £8,000,000 as a loan to
Egypt, is criticised on the ground that the money
would merely passthrough Egypt into the pockets
of the bond-holders. This seems true. There ap-
pears to be Rome incomprehensible influ-nee at
work to make Mr. Gladstone's Government the
more tool of the Egyptian bond-holders.
BRIEF MENTION.
Tne El Dorado of the Ruji staff: The
Sandwich Islands.
The Ecclesiastical motto par excellence :
Ad majorem L S.Dei gloriam!
Chris, is quite right to put his man into
livery. It prevents mistakes.
Joseph expects to bring his Tichborne-
Cresswell-Orton trial to a “ glorious consump-
tion.”
Which side of the ’Frisco boat did Miss E.
Pender favour the most? Why, the Lee side, to
be sure.
More policemen are wanted in Mudgee by
the local editors. To collect their accounts, wo
suppose.
King Tawliiao is to have an audience of
the Queen. Insect-powder is no longer a drug in
the market.
The Royal Opera Company here is to be,
on dit , Nobili managed. (It was bound to be made,
sooner or later).
The man who shot his wife in Melbourne
gave himself up on hearing that the doctors had
given up the missis.
The Modgee Independent man objects to
our French. And he ought to know—if not know-
ing English is a proof.
The Herald: “Dora, he is dying; can
you forgive him?” Never, if ho said her shoes
were like candle-boxes.
(jMedical men say that trichinosis can be
cured by doses of alcohol. Bring on your alcohol!
We will find the trichinosis.
The Wide Bat New-; has a “ Paris Corres-
pondent.” It is suspeoted by the cognoscenti to be
Leigh, of the D. D. Gazette.
The Herald’s “Stella” calls a dog-whip
an “implement of canine government.” We
wonder what she’d call a bustle.
The Queanbetan Times begins its leader,
“There is nothing of the nature of a surprise in
this article.” This comes of striking a new gram-
mar!
“William Brereton, of Kyneton, has made over to the Salvation Army his Maimsbury
farm, containing 150 acres, on which are two valuable quarries, through which an
ironstone lead is believed to pass. The farm is valued at £20 an acre.”
Is it too much to hope that the soldiers of the “Harmy” will now swap their brass
horns and bass drums for piety picks, sanctification shovels, and hallelujah wheel-
barrows—practice the rock-drill instead of the knee-drill—in short, direct their
energies to something useful?
Why in thunder doesn’t “Samuel” call
on “ Clara,” who seems (in the News) to want him
so badly ? His silence is hominy-oiis.
The Moruta Examiner announces its re-
moval to “commodious" premises. We suppose,
then, the pianoforte case is now to let.
The fact that a man has jumped some of
the Premier’s mineral selections along the Illa-
warra line is not surprising. Isn’t this leap-year?
The Cooma Express has a paragraph
headed, “Dreadful Result of Insanity.” We for-
get what the result was. Perhaps it was the Ex-
press.
The Newcastle Haniit calls “Ouida,”
whose name is Mdelle. de la Ramee, Miss de la
Rame Nice thing to call an authoress—an oar.
No italics.
No bill filed against that Bobby. Then
what horrid stories must have been told about the
poor man! Perhaps, however, after all, he will
get a stripe,
At a recent wedding the practice of shoe-
throwing was indulged in. Th< > bride's sister was
very much to the fore. She is now engaged in
nursing the postilion.
The one-eyed Frenchman who shot at
Annie Locke is committed for attempted murder.
At the trial the Key will be forthcoming to the
mystery of this Locke.
Barnum has trained one of his giraffes to
clean his windows wit h its tongue. It saves waves
and a step-ladder. Now, couldn’t our legislature
[Enough.—Ed. B]
The Shroud is great now on the “well-
connected” racket. Well, they are welcome to
anything after we have done with it. This remark
api lies p< intedly to our old shoes.
Said Heydon, “Two and two are four,
Who says it’s not’s an ass;
But still, I’ll say, it is a score
If that’s the view in Yass.”
There have been four suicides at Auck-
land (N Z ) during three weeks. If they had oc-
curred In any other town we might have been
surprised. As it is, we are not.
The Annandale constabulary had a hard
struggle to get a prisoner to the lockup the other
day. In tho wrestle, tho constabulary was thrown
several line s. Tne prisoner wa» a goat.
The Service Budget puts a duty of 300 per
cent, on rum. Be jabersl Another blow at the
existence of the country Press! And Service him-
self apart proprietor of an outside broad-sheet!
It is supposed that now the Pyrmont
Bridge is free, the Evuno2e will be able to go to
press earlier. It was a long walk round, and
timber-pipes were recently a drug in the market.
It is rumoured that the versatile and only
Jones has given up his Wagga paper, in order that
he may be able to devote the whole of his time to
the representation of —well, not the refreshment
room. A-tissuel
The North Australian Pearling Company
have Imported a lot of divers from Japan, i hey
should import a few dioas from Europe. If there
are any real good pearls about, these latter are
bound to have them.
Last week’s Mudgee Independent had
about balt'-a-dozon pars, about The Bulletin.
That paper’s gone through a good many vicissi-
tudes. Once it had a giraffe for an editor, and
now it is apparently conducted by a wombat.
London Figaro published, some time ago,
“ Busts of Celebrities.” If we went in for pub-
lishing busts of celebrities here, we should com-
mence with Mr. Tom Garrett Thrown off in a
leisure moment. “ Ce n'est pas plus difficile que >;a!”
An organist is wanted for a Memorial
Church in Melbourne, and candidates are re-
quested to send their applications to the “Aus-
tralasian Sawmills.” That’s good. Church music
and sawmill work arc at last recognising that they
are twins.
One of the marches played by the Milton
Brass Band is “ Brother’s Fainting at the Door.”
Callous, but correct. It is rumoured that several
dead persons have been seen in the streets of a
night since the band began to play. Thought they
were in hell.
“ According to several of the country cor-
respondents of the South Australian Register,
a large drove of camels has gone from Adelaide
to the North . . .” Taken in conjunction with
this, it is odd that a lot of S. A. papers are adver-
tising for editors.
Curious stories in some of the country
papers. There is a story that has been running
since the days of La Perouse. It is called “The
Secret of Her Death.” What was the secret?
What? Why, of course —she was the first sub-
scriber to that paper.
An exchange says : “ There has nearly al-
ways been a good wife behind every great man.”
Of course. We know it ourselves. There has
most always been a good wife behind us—with a
beetle—whenever we tried to be on affable terms
with the new servant.
Combination among journalists is not im-
possible (exclaims London Figaro), but absolute
union is out of the question. True for this city.
If you wanted “ absomte union,” one would have
to go about with a saveloy in one hand and a ham
sandwich in the other.
A woman named Eckle recently deserted
her eight months’ old kid, aud eloped along the road
with a tramp. The latter got six months “on the
vag,” while the former was discharged. She
explained that she never “took to” a child until
it was old enough to chop wood.
“The Australian cricketers were enter-
tained at the Empire Club on Friday last by a
member. They are an extremely presentable,
well-spoken, aud fine body of men.” And yet
there was a time—dinner-time principally—when
they used to ctil Alick ‘ tne J uggler.
Six months’ married life was enough, it
seems, for Mrs. Huff, of Melbourne. The husband
said she had been ‘carrying on her games. ’ She
got 7s. (id. a week awarded her, auu—but there are
draughts of this Huff biz. in Alfred’s paper. He
(H.i says he won’t take her back—gammon.
Under the heading of “The Humourist,”
the following appears in the Shroud:
“ Miss Seraphina Sarah Noggs
Is now leit solus (sic) wun her dogs.”
A man who could write like this could black-lead
a stove. Perhaps he does!
The Salvation Harmy appear to begetting
rather unpopular in Adelaide. On tho whole—and
after mature consideration—we are sorry for this.
For the only difference between the Harmy and
the Horthodox clergy is this: One tells you you
will go to hell with a brass band accompaniment;
and the other tells you you will go to hell without
ic.
Binns hung Mrs. Lefliey at Lincoln not
loug ago. She was in the habitof sweetening any-
one’s tei who annoyed her, with beotle-poisoa. It
t- earn that Mr. limns was drunk, and knocked
Mrs L. down in tho p nioniug-rooin. The papers
characterised his conduct as brutal. Mrs. Leftiey’g
sentiments respecting the matter have not yet
come to hand.
Says the Evening Alfred : “In a country
newsroom half a century ago, a notice was stuck
up— ‘ Gentlemen learning to spell are requested
to use yesterday’s paper.’ ” Gentlemen learning
to spell now-a-days would hardly refer to the
News. And why, do you think ? Because they
would probably be writing it.
Thank Heaven! The British Empire ig
still safe, in spite of Justice Williams. The Queen,
on a recent journey to Scotland, stopped at a
station fifty-five minutes to eat her breakfast.
Which shows that Her Gracious Majesty has still
what the Parramatta people call “a bit of a
relish,” notwithstanding all her bereavements.
At the luncheon to inaugurate the opening
of the Improved Dwellings and Lodging House
Co.’s Lodging House, Melbourne. Coppin, the pro-
moter, brought down the tenement by his refer-
ence to the bigot persecutors who had driven
Charles Strong out of Victoria—in a word, he fired
at those measly blacks, and fairly hit the white—
the milky white.
A Melbourne novelist, hearing that several
manuscripts of St. Hilary of Poitiers were dis-
covered recently at Arezzio, and were regarded as
of inestimable value, pointed to his own shoe-
trunk and said, “ Editors were always the same.
That shoe-trunk will be hereafter discovered,
and —. I wish I could anticipate a little of the
glory that will light on the top of it centuries
hence!”
The Richmond (Vic.) Town Council went
and got a stone-breaking machine, warranted to
break 72 cubic yards of stone per day; but before
they knew where they were, its jaws grew weak,
and now it caves in with about quarter of the
work. Seems that there is luck for everyone but
the poor Hansard man. There’s Taylor at it
since the House opened, and his jaws aren’t a bit
the worse!
The Narrabri Argus is thus addressed by
an admirer;—“To tho Editor of the N. N. Argus.
Sir, Allow me to convey to you the wide expressed
thanks of every right-thinking man in this district
for the sensible matter contained in your very
valuable leader of tho 4th,” etc. Immediately
above this we read the following:— ‘ We do not
identify ourselves with the opinions of our Cor-
respondents.”
A LESSON.
“ Matrimony.—Lady, 18, fairly educated,
with some means, desires to correspond with a
gentleman. Nil Desperandum.”—
You advertise in vain,
Tnis, Miss, we tell you true;
No gentleman you’ll get
To correspond with you!
A murderers’ club, consisting of fifty-nine
members, has been discovered in Sicily. How this
would have delighted De Quincey I It is a pleasing
proof that the principles of the co-operative
system are being more widely understood every
day. For, what are the standing armies of Europe
but organised murderers’ clubs ? It we must
murder, let us combine and murder in a manner
worthy the credit of this glorious century.
“It takes some time to cook an octopus
properly,” says a “ valued exchange,” “ as it is
naturally tough and stringy; but when well pre-
pared, it is one of the most delicate and luscious
of dishes.” This explains the mystery of that
“cricket” who is often bobbing up and down, at
Watson’s Bay, with a tin pot and a clothes-line. If
he were told that elephant was good tack, he would
wander round Lane Cove with a meal-sack and a
blunderbus to get one.
Two goats are advertised for in tlie News,
and yet David is not reported missing. Quel est ce
myst&ret Take a good look at David, and you will
“tumble.” We, of course, allude to the one that
Saul used to make a javelin target of, and who
No I we can’t well . Because Anyhow, it’s
pretty safe to libel the David who had giddy pro-
clivities. You remember about the captain’s wife
who . That came of looking out of window
while shaving. What we want to get at is—
[Very clumsy.—Ed. B.]
This is how the Cooktown Independent
man refers to his rivals:—” We feel that journal-
ism is indeed coming to a contemptible conclusion
at the instigation of venerable and Aldermanic
Hodel, who, by flaring the pennv dip of the
Herald before Aldermen’s eyes, thinks he can
increase the glare of the stink-pot Courier, fed
from the purlieus of Chinatown, and thus get up a
childish opposition to the Independent. ’ All
this is about ten shillings’ worth of municipal job-
printing. Journalism is indeed coming to a con-
temptible conclusion—in Cooktown.
“ Don’t your children go to the Public
school ?” was asked the other day, of a lady of An-
nandale. “No; I had to take them away,” was
the reply. “ Why ?” was the natural enquiry.
“Oh!” said she, “they’d hardly been there three
weeks, when Bobby (our eldest) pawned his
father’s spectacles, and Petruchio (the youngest)
swapped the box-iron for a ‘tip’ and a ’kitten’.”
The education of the family now, we understand,
is infused with a strong element of religion.
They’ve got a copper-stick in that house with a
pewter ferule.
The Sydney Owl Club don’t seem to be
geeing, B'>mehow, since the hon. sec. says in the
Herald that no member will have a ticket sent
to him for what is called (idiotieallj) the hyginx—
“ wholesome fun ’’—unless he ante’s up. Members
are generally requested to ante-up; and the
money is to be sent to “ Mr. Steers, of Permewan,
Wright, and Co.” The hon. secretary of this
“ literary and artistic club ” is Mr. Morris Menser,
a much respected gentleman who cultivates liter-
ary and artistic tasiesby “ walking” during the day
a very well-known slop-shop. And Mr. Steers a
clerk in well, did you heifer? After this, all
doubts will be dispelled, if any existed, as to the
Owls being literati and dilettanti (another Gallic
blast) par excellence.
The Sydney Newsboys’ Brigade are to have
club premites in Castiereagh-street, though who
is to be “ GrandJPrimo ” has not yet transpired.
Neither Garden Honey nor Alfred is eligible—
albeit the latter will, it ;s understood, deliver the
inaugural audresi. Tne opening liues—presumably
written by Alderman “ Nitoy-Nitey are, as far
as we can gather, as follow:
“Assemb ed boys, you know well I diffuse
Much joy and knowledge through the Evening
News:
If you'd have pleasure, too, that is eternal,
Glance o’er the cuts, lads, each week in the Jeu-
nle—
Th’ receipts remember, and t’will come to pass
You’ll all know how to cook your sparrow-
grass,”
Etc. Or more so.
We don’t know who the mad wag is who
docs the drawings, now, for the Shroud, but we
sternly suspect “Pyn,” who, however, does not
sign his name fer fear of vitiating his insurance
policy. We had fondly Poped that “ Pyn ” was
either dead or was glad be was saved, or something
—but it appears not. We likewise suspect “ Pyn ’
of perpetrating letter-press in the same journal.
No mighty brain but his could have evolved the
following:—
“ Then came the broker with private news re-
specting stocks,
Unless he took precautions he would soon be on
the rocks.”
We recommend the engraver, that reminds us, to
return the butcher his meat-axe. He might try a
boomerang with more fatal results.
Scene: The back parlour of a Newcastle
hotel. Time: Sunday afternoon. Dramatis persona:
Stout old gentleman and thin young man. scout
old gentleman rings the bell. Blushing barmaid
trips down from the upper regions. Stout old
gentleman orders drinks. Blushing barmaid (who
is new) informs him that she can’t serve on a
Sunday. Stout old gentleman remarks : “ God-
dammitohell girl, don’t you know I’m a Justice of
r. t’ertce. I ring in the drinks!” And she
brought them.


Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, la.*
Flies and bugs, beetles, insects, roach t s, an is
bed-bugs,rats, mice, gophers, jack-ivtbb:rs. coated
out by “Bough on Rats.” Moses, Moss Sc . 0,.
Sydney, General Agents.
“Rough on Rats.”— Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moss & Co.. Sydney. General Agents.
A half or whole bottle of Murray and
Lanman s Florida Water mixed with the water of
the bath is of great use to invalids and all delicate
or nervous persons, as it revives and braces up
the failing strength and soothes the most irritable
nervous system.
Eat and Live.—Marshall’s Tonie Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Wholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros., Prosser, Hoffnung, Feldheim, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 106
Market-street, Sydney.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. t3T" Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant. &c. No commission charged for
buying. Agents for the Bale or purchase) od
commission of Pure-bred atook.*
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
iNeither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
PhyslcalDecayisunirornily
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new nnd direct methods and absolute thor.
mizhncss, Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52 Cactleroagh St., Syduty
1
0
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, sth August, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies-tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
G. R. DIBBS.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
r rorr<si£*??Klerifc« who Qtoe neither name nor nnm-de-
*■'" plume cannot expect to have their ocm ■
municatione noticed.]
uj'\v.” {Newtown): You t'ay that of the
forty undergraduates who competed for Professor
Smith’s prize for “experimental physics,” Miss
jg - _ (why not give her full name—what is there
to be ashamed of ?) was the successful one. You
add further that “ the mental abilities of young
ladies are not to be despised.” Of course they are
no more to be despised than those of young men.
rjijjore is really no reason, physiological or pyseho-
logical, why women shouldn't equal men in any
study. You’ve heard of Madame de Stael, Harriet
Martineau, Mary Somerville, Charlotte Bronte',
George Eliot, and Mrs. J. Stuart Mill. To throw
obstacles in the way of a great mind because of
the physical or sexual peculiarities of the pos-
sessor, is a cruel revival of the time when women
were mere household drudges, or worse. ...
J.E.D.”: Some of the items may be used—others
are of no account “ W. 8.”: Your verse ia much
too original for our readers. It may be the poetry
of the future, but we hope to be in heaven cen-
turies before its day comes round ‘ P. P. Ag-
new”: Cannot find them. Send along some others,
and tWy 11 tlnd a place if adapted " A.H.” wants
a recipe for the little black; “face-worms”
that spoil the appearance of so many counte-
nances. Some of our correspondents may know a
means to dislodge them—something less primitive
than that adopted by us about the time of the
Crimean war. Our plan was to get a cold chisel
and a mallet but, enough. The question, at
any rate, deserves a couitaousanswer. [Weapolo-
gise to “ A.H.” His letter was given in mistake to
■our “ funny man,” who has more than once lost us
contributors by his ill-timed efforts to be witty.
This time bo reviewed the whole history of worms
and the best means for shifting them. It was only
when he got as far as an auger and a steam stump-
extractor that we took the matter out of his
hands. He had be3n drinking. Our correspon-
dent might apply to Dr. L. L. Smith, of Collins-
Melbourne (late residence of the Governor).
‘Since Darwin died, he is the best hand we know
r'or dealing with worms—Ed. B.] ...“ J.C.” wants
to know if he can detain the effects of a lodger
wlm won't pay. We decline to advise in the
matter until we know what the effects are, and
what the “board” was like. If ’twas like wbat
we got in Kent-street and Wynyard-square, we’d
suggest the lodger and his traps should be
“ bounced, ' and no questions asked “ 8.C.” was
going under a George-streot ladder, when a hod
fell on him and was smashed; and now the hodman
wants 10s. fid. for the damage. “8.C.” omits to
say whether it was full of bricks at the time, and
if they were broken, too. We cannot answer
without full particulars “New Chum”: Few
cultured people, who can avoid it, remain in
Australia. Sir Samuel Wilson, A. P. Martin,
Henniker—in fact, they all go home... •
“K.C.M.G.” (West Maitland): You should live on
a light diet and beware of excitement. Is it here-
ditary in your family, or was your insanity only
temporary when you wrote to us? Anyhow, we
think it would be wed for you to get your head
shaved on chance “C.P.H.”: Thanks; have
dealt with the item “Unlenspiegel” (Fiji):
Heaven bless you! But we have no wild ambition
to be famous—in Fiji —“ K.M” (Coonabarabran):
Will be attended to when the gentleman who
attends to that department sobers up. ..“Tim”
(Quirindi): Much obliged, but your item, if
printed, would be too much calculated to
make the devils laugh. It is too funny
for this world—as at present constituted
“C.E.S.”: Your verses, headed “Truth Dawns,”
are neither one thing nor the other. They are Dot
so good as to deserve being printed in letters of
gold upon a ground of purple, nor yet so bad as to
make it necessary that they should be hanged,
drawn, and quartered. Besides, there is no use
saying Avaunt” to bigots. They will not
avaunt. There will always be bigots as loDg as
one man thinks he is better than another. And
when you come to think of it, it is a comfort to
believe there is a hell—for our enemies. You
say :
“ Hail, brighter day, when man grasps hand of man
In friendship and true fellowship!
When all mankind, as conscience prompts them,
can
Praise God, or move the prayerful lip!
Hail, dawniDg-'day ! True sun shine brightly on,
1 ill falsehood and intolerance are gone!"
All very sweet and sanguine, but do you believe
such a day will ever dawn? We don't. Neither
does Zachary Barry,of the Protestant Standard.
But as you are good enough to ask our
opinion about your verses, we will give it to you.
We think they arc above the average. But as yet
you have not found the one essential of poetry-
music. Your metre is correct enough, but the
sentiment it conveys might just as well be written
in prose. Oliver W endell Holmes says somewhere
that a thought comes to the poet in a mesh of
singing words-or something to that effect. It
will not do to take an inventory of your thoughts
and then proceed to set them in rhyme, if you want
to write poetry. They must come to you in rhyme
—come to you singiDg. Otherwise you will find it
will give you labour enough to write them in lucid
prose. But as there is no doubt you will go on
writing verses, we advise you to write from obser-
vation, Write of the things around you—the farm,
the village, the little joys and sorrows of every-
day life. Describe ihe dawn and the dusk, the
sunlit plain, and the moonlit river, the wild flowers
of the bush, and the wonderful Australian sylva
which yet wait for description. Then write to us
again. ..“W. Jones”: We have submitted the
specimen of grass to Mr. Moore, ourator of the
Botanical Gardens, who writes: “In the absence
of seed, it is impossible to give the informatisn
sought. If this grass be sent in seed, Mr. Moore
will gladly determine the botanical name.” Send
us something seedy next time, Jones. If you had
been a poet, now, we wouldn't have needed to ask
this. They all do.
Says a London paper: “The most preco-
cious infant we ever beard of was that referred to
by implication in a contemporary last week, when
it wrote of ‘ Sir Greville Smythe and his bride (nde
Mrs. Edwards).’ A lady who has the good fortune
to be positively horn married must indeed be the
envy of her sex.” Yes, the lady who was nde Mrs.
Edwards licks Eve, and she, you know—the only
woman, by the bye, who ever died before she was
born—became a wife in the first hour of her life.
There’s ructions in the “foorce” to-day,
and, marvellous to relate, neither grog nor girls
have aught to do with the trouble. Jemima Ann
is clean out of the earthquake this time, and all
the misery is centred in a harmless looking cup of
cold “ korfee.” It appears that a certain boarding-
house on Church Hill is honoured by the patronage
pf a few of our bold gendarmes, and the thought-
ful proprietress has been for some time past in the
habit of placing a Dot of coffee by the fireside
every night, in order to liven her blue-coated
friends up before they sally out in the morning to
surround the early birds who happen to be “run-
ning the rule ” ov< r the slumbering, boozy worms.
Strange to say, however, the refreshing coffee-pot
has of late—to use one of the victims’ graphic re-
marks—" been found t’ be full av emptiness,” and
a subsequent investigation clearly proved that
three other guardians of the night were in the
habit of finding their way into the kitchen and
wrapping themselves round the fragrant Mocha.
A few nights after this, a tempting pot of coffee,
nicely seasoned with an ounce of Epsom salts and
a gill of jalap, was brewed, left in the old familiar
spot, and carefully stowed away as usual by the
feloniously-inclined prowling peelers. Next morn-
ing the landlady lodged a formal complaint with
the Sub-inspector of the district, and the whole of
his force was ordered to fall in for inspection; but
there was no necessity for the injured party to
point out the chicory-bean delinquents, for the
medicines had done their “dooty rt well, and the
word “guilty ” was stamped in job-type letters on
the woe-begone face of each “ bowld offinder.”
The highly-indignant Sub-inspector then read the
Riot Act aloud, quoted largely from St. Paul to
the Californians, and wound up by wondering
why the earth didn't gape and swallow the miser-
able miscreants who were base enough to “ scoff ”
abrother’s “korfee.”
Roxborough Hall, the Property of E. J. Wehlow.
ROXBOROUGH HALL, THE PROPERTY OF
E. J. WEHLOW.
In consequence of his approaching departure
for Europe, Mr. E. J. Web low has decided to place
his magnificent estate at Baulkham Hills, known
as Roxborough Hall, in the market. It is now ad-
vertised for sale, by tender, by W. A. Brodie, Auc-
tioneer, Parramatta. The property, which com-
prises an area of about 200 acres of the richest soil,
is one of the snuggest and most desirably situated
in the county, and is acknowledged to be admir-
ably adapted to orange and fruit growing. It is
located about four and a half miles from Parra-
matta, has frontages to both the Castle Hill and
Baulkham Hills roads, and is substantially en-
closed. From the commanding eminences of the
estate charming views are to be obtained of the
far-famed Blue Mountains, the city, suburbs,
Parramatta, and surrounding districts. About
SGventy acres are cropped with oranges, lemons,
summer fruit, oats, barley, lucerne, turnips, peas,
beans, etc., all of which flourish most luxuriantly
in the fertile soil of the locality. The residence is
a handsome and commodious building, is very
healthily situated, and contains fifteen lofty and
well-ventilated rooms. The out-buildings are
very complete, and include stables, coachhouse,
conservatory, aviary, fernery, labourers’ cottages,
dairy, stock-yard, piggery, fowl-houses and yard,
etc. The laundry and other appliances are ample
for all requirements, an abundance of pure water
is stored in underground and other tanks, and in
addition to large tanks and dams distributed
throughout the estate, a never-failing creek runs
right through the property. The grounds sur-
rounding the proprietor's house are v#ry prettily
laid out with plants, flowers, and evergreens of
the choicest kinds, the drives being planted with
handsome pine, oak, laurel, chestnut, Morcton Bay
flg and other trees. The estate is one of the most
desirable in the county, and the lucky purchaser
of it could live surrounded by ease and luxury,
and at the same time realise a handsome fortune
from the produce of the soil. Tenders close on the
11th August, and a detailed advertisement giving
full particulars is now appearing in the columns of
the Sydney Mobning Herali>. For lull particu-
lars apply W. A. BRODIE, Auctioneer, Parra-
matta.


The Referee.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
It is stated that Luke, the English jock.,
has accepted a good offer to ride in Australia.
T. A. Noud and T. Ellem, on Saturday
last, at Grafton, ran 150 yards for £oo a-side. Ellem
won by three yards, in 15 seconds—at least, so say
the provincial dockers. _
The Forrester stable was “in it ” on Satur-
day last at Liverpool, with four wins out of five
races. The stable put their little bit of stuff on,
an j there was joy in the camp accordingly.
The Clan Thompson appear to have given
the Cabbage Garden the go-by. Josephus and
Bernardo are doing the Continong, and John
has gone into the cigar business in King-street.
The Audit Department hold their first
annual athletic meeting on Saturday next, at the
Great Northern Grounds, North Willoughby, when
She first dawns upon us as a boarding-
school miss, with notions of life derived
from French text-books and Miss Brad-
don’s novels.
At this time, an infatuated heavy
tragedian took to singing love songs
beneath her window lattice, the bur-
then of which was, “ O, tlv with me. 1 '
Onconsenting to •* fly,” she found that the great tragedians ideas of
were based upon the exigencies of modern locomotion —in point o ac
carried her off in a prosaic omnibus.
Here you see her blossomed forth as
a great tragedienne, of whom her bus*
band (the tragedian) it justly proud.
A fiend, in the form of the low COUiedi&K
of the troupe, suddenly seized with a passion
for aerial navigation, implores her to fly with
him, “ I am another’s,” she said, but “flew”
native leas
“ Try to forget me," i#
b what &he wrote, in a biifif
note left upon the trage-
dian's table.
“ For-getl Eafl Earl
-Hart” he exclaimed, ®
three syllables.
6Jje next appears as a blooming souforette
(We use the wprd *♦ blooming ” in no pro*
lane sense)
But, having once taken to “ flying,"
there would seem to be no rest for the
ffoles of her feet. A very prosaic old
fiend, in human form, is the next to
“ fly ” with her.
The eminent comedian is overwhelmed
Vfth surprise. “ Who,” he cried, “ could
have thought it possible that she would
have thus abandoned one for whom she,
had abandoned another ? M
“ She is unworthy of us.’ 1
Her Career.
Bports of all classes, from a hop-step-and-a-leap to I
porridge-eating will be indulged in.
The ’Varsity galloped over the Redferns
on Saturday last, scoring six points to nil. And,
by the way, we have not yet heard of Jumbo’s
corpse having necessitated a coronial enquiry.
The Wallaroos also made an easy job of the
Balmains.
At Madison-square Garden, New York,
Fred. Gebbardt, ot Langtry fame, carried off the
prize for high jumping with his horse Leo, which
covered 6ft Gin. The horse is six year \ old, stands
16 hands 2 inches high, and has had plenty practice
in the hunting field.
The New York Police Gazette of 14th
June sports a portrait of Beach, our champion
sculler The likeness is not altogether bad; but
he is shown in walking costume, which does not
show him up to such advantage as some of his
portraits taken in rowing rig.
Thomas Stevens started from ’Frisco on a
bic7cle on 22nd April, rode across the Continent,
and arrived at Laramie, a distance of 1400 miles, on
Ist June. He intended going on to New York,
crossing over to Liverpool, and then riding through
England, Franco, Germany, Austria, and Turkey,
to Constantinople.
Still another aspirant for “best on re-
cord” fame has turned up in the States. Eugene
Green offers to wager he can shave two men twice
over quicker than any man in the world, we
should not care to be one of the subjects for the
tonsorial artist to operate upon.
M. Housset, president of the Veloce Club,
Bordelais, has succeeded in beating the twenty-
four-hours’ bicycling record for France, and, con-
sidering his age (49 years), he accomplished a really
good performance. M. Rousset rode from Bor-
deaux to Agen and back, a distance of 288 kilo-
metres, or about 179 miles.
The Cockneys have “eelipsed ” us by once
round and a distance. We have seen and heard a
little of the much-vaunted fair-play Britishers,
consequently the little affair on the Surrey Ground
has not quite knocked us off our perch with sur-
prise. But no doubt “ Pendragon ” will explain
everything satisfactorily in the Referee.
Pearce and Reynolds, on Saturday last,
raced over the champion course in light skitfs for
£3O a-side. The race was won by Pearce in 25min.
18sec. An offer was afterwards made to back
Reynolds against all comers in light skiffs, and was
at once taken up; so we may expect to see the
darkey flying at something big before long.
At the annual games of the Intercollegiate
Athletic Association at New York, no less than
three bests on record for American amateurs were
made:—Wendell Baker ran the 220 yards in 222-5
sec., beating Myers’ previous best of sec.; and
C. H. Atkinson covered sft.9Min. in the high jump,
beating all previous American amateur records.
We notice Beach contradicted the Nooze
report that he bad rowed the champion course in
18inin. 52sec. We are glad of this. When we heard
of the Australian’s wonderful trial we at once
came to the conclusion it was all U.P. with what
little show he had for the race. Whenever we
hear of a man having done a fast trial on the
water, we lay a trjfle on his opponent. We never
yet knew a man to do a fast trial and win a race.
The Mercantile Rowing Club regatta on
Saturday next promises to be the best regatta the
Parramatta River has yet seen. The entries for
the various events have filled up in first-rate stvle,
and tho ever energetic officers of the club have
spared no trouble to make their inaugural River
regatta a success. The fact that Hanlan, Beach,
and all our prominent professionals and amateurs
are likely to show out, will prove no small item of
attraction to the programme.
! Wallace Ross, the American sculler, is on
the war path, and appears anxious for a match.
The N.Y. Crj-PPUR says he has informally an-
nounced that he is willing to give E. C. Layoock
five seconds start in a race on the Thames, Eng.,
for £2OO a side. Teemer, the coming “ Hanlan, is
also out with a modest bit of blow. Hejchallenges
auv four oarsmen in Pittsburg or M keesport to
row him twelve miles, each man to row three
miles, a new man to take up the race every three
miles; the race to be for £lOO or £2OO.
The Charters Towers racecourse is no
longer to be the El Dorado of three-card-men and
thimble-riggers. The local club^ has ruled that ail
bookmakers must deposit £lOO in the secretary 8
hands before they can wager on the stand or
saddli-'g-paddock. This is a sensible arrangement.
All bookmakers who are worth anything can pay
the depo“it. Those who are not worth anything—
well, they are worth nothing. And that is about
the sum which those who wager with them and
win will receive. But it is hard on the under-and-
over gentlemen. What are they to do } We sup-
pose they will be driven to turn treasurers of
Widows’ and Orphans’ Funds.
The following are a couple of rather out-
of-the-common racing accidents:—While a party
were viewing’horse races from a captive balloon
at Lille, France, June 1, the car became detached
and fell forty metres, three of the occupants being
killed and the rest injured. . . At the Metro-
politan (Baldoyle) meeting, on June 3, S. Kelly, ,
when finishing third on Citron for the Suburban
Plate, seeminglv turned weak, which made him
swerve in the saddle, thereby bringing his head
into contact with the winning-post as he passed it.
He was knocked off the horse, and when picked
up life. was found to be extinct, his neck being
dislocated, besides which he receive! a fracture
of the skull.
Marcus Bibbers is going to try and get
through the Niagara rapids on scientific principles.
His first experiment will be with a coffin-shaped
box, which will be air-tight, and covered with wax
made as nearly as possible the consistency of
human flesh. If this wax be torn on its passage
through the whirlpool, the “ Professor will
assume that his flesh would have been in a similar
condition, and desist in the attempt. Bibbers s
Dext experiment will be with an india-rubber
“dummy” of his own size and weight, ia which
inflated bladders will be placed in lieu of lungs.
Should these bladders burst, he will see there is
danger of asphyxia, and abandon his project; but,
if not, his next experiment will be made in propria
persona.
Georgh Ellis lias obtained a lease of the
shed in Waterview Bay at which Charley Messenger
has been located for many months past. In the
old days, Andrew Reynolds turned out some of the
best boats—and boat-builders—of their day from
the old Waterview Bay shed; and Messenger was
no mean successor, as he completely revolutionized
the style of light skiffs in the harbour with the
clippers of his invention. Ellis will, no doubt,
“ carry on the same old game.” George takes the
cake: for small craft of the skimming-dish class,
and in genuine open boats ho ranks second only to
the redoubtable Joe Donnelly, of Carlotca and
Victor fame. Messenger has taken large pre-
mises at Double Bay, where he intends to carry on
his trade.
Dodd, of North Shore, has lost no time in
putting Matterson’s boat together, and the
Clarence River man expects to take delivery of
her about the end of this week. In shape, she is
something after the style of Hanlan’s boat, but a
shade rounder on the bottom. Beach has the
choice of two boats to row his Hanlan race with—
one built by Dodd, and the other by Joe JJonnelly,
so long known to fame as the premier colonial
builder of both rowing and sailing craft. Dodd’s
boat is as near as possible the shape ot' Hanlan’s
Rudduck, while Donnelly’s is much the same
shape as the “ Tommy Kelly a much flatter and
floatier boat than the American model. Beach
will, of - course, lose ho opportunity of testing the
speed of the two boats, and his decision will, no
doubt, have a big say in the style of boat used in
future by our professionals and amateurs. The
workmanship is much on a par in both boats, ana
it would certainly be a hard job to pick a fault in
either of them.
The prospectus of the new series of the
Rum stated that an aquatic contributor of great
experience had been secured, so that its million
readers could rely upon all the latest items in the
rowing and sailing world. For weeks past this
talented contributor’s works have been confined
to a single paragraph, inserted every alternate day
in the “• Brevities.” The par. runs something
after this style: “Hanlsn and Beach are doing
heavy work up the river. Both men are conn-
dent of success.” As the race approaches no
doubt he will chip in with one of his reliable tips,
but we’ll anticipate him this time. Beach has
done a wonderful trial, and will, most probably,
! be the first to catch the eye of the judge—after that
official takes his optic off Hanlan.
j Flemington racecourse was pretty lively
at the National meeting, and those who go to suca
places to see something stirring had really better
value for their trip on the 19th than on the big
day of the year. One race in particular appealea
to the interest of the most un-horsey spectator.
Off went ten horses for the Malden Steeplechase.


A PRETTY FACE.
"What is more to be desired by a young- lady than
a beautiful, clear complexion? She may have
wealth, education, and all the accomplishments
which will fit her to be an ornament to society
but if she have a sallow countenance, and her face
be covered with pimples, it will avail but little.
Let her remove the cause of all this disfigurement
by the use of Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and our
word for it she will soon find her beauty fully
restored.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
HAMBURG
TEA.
A young lady in one of our pro-
minent institutions of learning, who
was a great favourite, not only
among her classmates but with all
the faculty, was obliged to give up
her studies and return home seriously
ill. Chronic nervous sick headache,
accompanied by impaired digestion,
by which the circulation and nutri-
tion of the brain was impaired,
rendered her very miserable. A
physician was called, who, apparently
not understanding the nature of her
ailment, failed to afford relief A
friend who had been similarly afflic-
ted, and found immediate relief by
using Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea,
recommended the same to her. She
made trial of it, and, to her great
joy, found a decided improvement as
the result. After a few days’ use of
this popular remedy, she was fully
restored.
A marvel of the age. It is impos-
sible to say too much in praise of that
good old standard remedy, Emil
Frese’s Hamburg Tea, and no house-
hold should be without it. It pre-
vents, as well as cures, skin diseases,
gravel, affected liver, headache, nau-
sea bile, wind, indigestion, constipa-
tion, fevers, sleeplessness, lassitude,
foul breath, and every disease
brought on or aggravated by a dis-
ordered stomach. Once used it is al-
ways used. Try it.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Sold by all Storekeepers and Chemists
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
-ID£TS, Carpet Bag-s Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 39 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
wan anted last and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, Ac., Ac., by return post.*
The distance was a little over two miles, but mis-
haus came like bricks in a faction fight. Some-
thing' happened every horse. Two ran off the
bourse, three baulked, five fell. Robin Hood came
along towards home and left the rowdies out of
sight but, just as everyone had settled down to
the conviction that the race was over, Kingston
crept up behind, and, ascertaining that Robin
Hood had gone asleep, shoved his head in first at
the winning-post. If that race had been duly
advertised it would have fetched the town.
Courtney, the American sculler of boat-
sawing notoriety, has been mixed up in still
another lizzie. After two postponements, about
3000 persons assembled at Oak Point (N.F.), to
witness the race between Courtney and Ross. At
2 o’clock on the day of the proposed race, Courtney
went away from the boatshed with the intention,
so he stated, of having a shave, but he did not
show out again during the afternoon, and Ross
rowed over the course by himself, making the
three miles in 23min. 51isec. The National Police
Gazette states Courtney offered to give the purse
of £5OO to bis opponent if Ross would let him win;
but, as Ross decided to let the race stand on its
merits, he was too cow-hearted to stand the chance
of a beating. Anothor paper says, had the disap-
pointed spectators laid their hands an Courtney,
the shave he would have got would have been a
lathering with coal-tar and feathers and a scraping
with a bath brick.
VY. J. Peall's big break of 1919 must be
regarded with just a little suspicion, occurring as
it did in an exhibition game with Mitchell, because
several previous exhibitions between the same men
have been given on tables that favoured high scor-
ing. An extra eighth of an inch in the width of
the pockets and a “drop” make an immense differ-
ence to spot-stroke players like Peall and Mitchell,
and had probably a good deal to do with the for-
mer’s 518 spots in the recent break. One table that
the famous hazard strikers performed on some
two years ago was so indulgent in the matter of
pockets that there’s no knowing what runs might
have been made if the game had only lasted long
enough, and it was quite bewildering to see the
rapidity with which each man in turn disposed.of
the red. All the same for this, of course, Peall is
a splendid player under any circumstances, and
his show with John Roberts in their game of 10,000
up (though that was played only for “ gate,” and
on a somewhat “easy” table) makes him out to be
decidedly the second best man in the world at
English billiards.
The thousand-miles-in- a-thousand - half-
hours craze is beginning to spread at last. Profes-
sor Rooke, of Ontario, has unddrtaken to do the
“spot” stroke at billiards 5000 times in 5000 ha'f-
hours; the Hobart boating enthusiasts think they
could part with £250 to see Hanlan pull a thousand
miles in a thousand half-hours; Pete Williams, a
buck nigger of Ohio, has been matched to eat a
thousann pork pies in a thousand half-hours; and
there is some talk of backing Lewis Scott to make
a thousand villainous, blood-curdling puns in a
thousand half-hours also. Death will have no
terrors for us after that affair comes off: and,
talking of de th, by the way, reminds us that le
sport is commencing to animate our very ceme-
teries, for we notice one Jim Warner, of Sandy
Flat, Nevada, is open to back himself to dig a
grave quicker and neater than any man his weight
in the whole world. All we long for now is the
hangman who will undertake to pull off a thou-
sand executions in a thousand half-hours, begin-
ning with the mud-headed idiot who first began
the “thousand” racket.
Says the Home News:—“ From France,
comes the news that M. Ferry's Government
have at length decided to prohibit the immemorial
bull-fightsj in Nunes itself.” And talking of bull-
fights leads us to bull-baits, which were allowed
not so very long ago in the land of cricket-ground
rushers and John Bull, in the good old days, when
the P.R. was in its glory, there lived a gentleman
of the name of Bill Gibbons. Mr. Gibbons was the
owner of a bull, and a very knowing bull at that,
with which he used to “do the provinces;” and
after any little flutter in the “noble art ” line, Mr.
Gibbons was sure to be on the spot with the bull,
and a nice little thing he used to make out of him,
charging so much to bulldog owners for the
privilege of a bait, and offering a reward to tne
owner of any dog which nailed the bull. But a
gay chance any dog had of collaring him. As soon
as he was staked, the knowing old brute would
paw up a hole in the ground in which to stick his
nose, and then he held ’em at the whip. Old Bill
Gibbons and h’s bull were looked upon as institu-
tions by the fancy for a bit of sport after the
“Commissary-General” had packed up the ring
paraphernalia. Ah, me! another reminiscence of
our gentle childhood’s day gone by.
The return match between John L. Sulli-
van and Charley Mitchell, billed to come off on
June 30th, resulted in a fizzle. A fully £5OOO-house
waited on tip-toe of expectation for the contest-
ants to appear. Sullivan at last staggered on to
the stage, supported on each side, and stated his
inability to fight on account of illness, and Mitchell
did not smooth down the crowd Sullivan had
turned the wrong way when he also stated he was
too unwell to set-to. There was a big row, of
course, and it took the police all their time to keep
the hands of the crowd off suliivan. Sullivan may
have been drunk, but it was just as likely to have
been a put-up affair. A rather amusing incident
of how these things are worked occurred at
Toronto. Two men named Lange and Moriarty
were to fight four Queensberry rounds. During
the first two rounds the affair was very light,
Moriarty hitting his ; clumsy opponent when he
pleased, Lange getting in a few slaps with his left
and using his right sparingly and gingerly on the
chest, not hard enough to make it red. The last
two rounds consisted of Lange hugging the local
man—a new way of knocking out—and occasion-
ally throwing him. During the last round, Moriar-
ty made a poor attempt to imitate the actions of a
man played out, going down at last from a blow
that would not have hurt a child. However, the
best part of the joke was to come. A detective
and a posse of police marched upon the stage to
arrest the men, upon which Moriarty, who was
supposed to be in a fainting condition in the dress-
ing-room, dashed through the hall, half-dressed,
with the agility of a sprinter, and made his escape.
He had just enough exercise in his encounter with
Lange to limber him up.
In a match in America between Matsada
Sorakichi, the Japanese wrestler, Duncan C. Ross,
and James C. Daly, to see who could elevate a
1501 b. club above their head the most number of
times, the Jap carried off the cake with the
wonderful performance of fifteen times, Ross
came next with eleven times, and Daly managed
seven times. On June 2, Sorakichi and Duncan C.
Ross, who is stated to be the champion all round
athlete of the world, met for a purse in a wrestling
match, best three in five falls, two eatch-as-catch-
can, and two Japanese style Ros, who is a per-
fect giant, weighing over 15st, looked as if he
could eat the little Jap., who weighs about lOst.
The first bout was catch-as catch-can. Ross, rely-
ing on his great strength, caught the Jap. in his
arms like an infant and tried to lay him on his
back, but the darkie slipped out of his hold like an
eel, and took a sprawling position on the stage,
and, although Ross tried all he knew to turn him
over, he could not manage it. This sort of thing
went on for some time, when Ross permitted his
temper to overcome him, and, in a burst of rage,
threw his email though herculean opponent clean
off the stage, for which he was well hissed by the
spectators Ross a second time threw him off the
stage, and when they met again for about the
twentieth time, Ross got the little fellow down,
and, after a long and desperate struggle, managed
to turn him on his back, after 55 minutes of hard
wrestling. The next round was Japanese style,
when the Jap. threw Ross in half a minute. Ross
won the third bout, catch-as-catch can, after a
short though heavy struggle; and, in the fourth
bout, Ross jumped at his man, and, getting a
despi rate hold on him about the Joins, laid him
flat on his breast in Japanese fashion in 15 seconds.
We have often commented in our columns
on the extraordinary shortness of glove fights in
America, in comparison with encounters in the
“good old style,” and now we have a chance of
doing the same thing nearer home. Farnan
knocked a Hercules line Jackson all to pieces in
two Queensberry rounds and a little ’un thrown
jn, with soft gloves, approved of hy the authorities,
while, naked-handed, it took Larry Foley an hour
and twenty minutes to dispose of Abe Hicken;
Dave White took one hour and 25 minutes to beat
Johnny Sullivan, notwithstanding the latter’s
hands, during the greater part of the light, were
knocked up, and like two bladders; Georgo Hough
took upwards of an hour to dispose of Ned Chalker;
and in England it took such a bruiser as Nat Lang-
ham 63 minutes to defeat the Australian, Sparks,
after what was described as a fast and punishing
battle, and so on, with instances that would till a
page of The Bulletin. Can anyone say why this
is thus? And from the “gloves approved by the
authorities ” we notice the Victorian police coun-
tenance and lend their assistance to shows of this
kind, while the whole “bilin' ” at a knuckle-dust-
ing affair, spectators and all, are “run in ’’ Does
this not seem a contradiction. It would certainly
appear to one unsophisticated with the sport that
more punishment must be meted out with the
gloves than with nature’s weapous, if it takes only
ten or twelve minutes to knock a man senseless
with the former, as against an hour or two with
the latter; but we suppose the authorities know
btst, and will obligingly approve of the three-
round knockers-out to be used by Messrs. Farnan
and Jackson at their return meet, tixed to come
off in about four weeks time. In the recent on-
counter Jackson proved he has a "terrible left,”
and had he kept his head and countered Farnan
when the latter rushed in, he would have followed
up the lead he obtained in the first round, and the
"knocking out” would most likely have been on
the other foot. If Jackson is well seconded and
keeps his head in the coming bout, the odds should
be George-street to a C.M.G.ship on the darkey.
The Amateur Champion Intercolonial race
meeting, held at the Association Ground on Satur-
day, under the auspices of the Sydney Bicycle
Club, drew together a crowd that must have num-
bered at the least 15,000 people. The grand-stand
and lawn were packed close with youth and
beauty, and any amount of youth without beauty,
not to speak of the usual number of “old ewes
dressed lamb fashion ” which roll up on these
occasions. But we had better quit this style of
thing or we'll be having the social man visiting us
with a club. Lee disappointed his many admirers
in the one and ten-miles’ championships, but it is
only fair to the erstwhile mile champion to state
that he looked drawn about the face, and alto-
gether overtrained. Bennett proved himself a
flyer in the mile and a stayer in the ten miles; but
it was a pity he did not content himself with such
a grand performance without going for the tricycle
and three-mile bicycle handicap, as he came to
grief through sheer exhaustion after goiDg a short
THE DUDE AGAIN.
PRISCILLA: “OH, COUSIN JOHN! I AM SO GLAD TO MEET YOU. THERE’S A YOUNG
MAN BEEN FOLLOWING ME FOR BLOCKS!”
JOHN: “WHAT, THAT! WHY DIDN’T YOU HIT IT WITH YOUR HANDKERCHIEF AND
KILL IT?”
distance in tbe latter event. For the mile cham-
pionship, just before entering the straight, Stokes,
Lee, and Bennett were all in a bunch, but round-
ing the turn, Bennett drew clear, and Shackelford
coming with a rush passed Stokes and Lee and
drew upon Bennett at every revolution. But the
Victorian second string commenced his effort a
shade late, and Bennett won a grand race by about
a foot. The ten - mile championship was the
race of the day. After the culls had fallen
out, Shackelford took the lead, Bennett ly-
ing second, and Lee in his favourite position
at the rear, and tbe three remained in this
order till the fortieth lap, when Bennett and Lee
challenged the leader. But the Victorian was
equal to the occasion, and, rounding the turn, drew
away and won a race to be'remembered, by a few
yards from Bennett, Lee a couple of yards away,
third. The 100 yards' spin for the Sydney Amateur
Athletic Club Challenge Cup resulted in a rather
easy win for P. James, in 10 4-5 sec. The maiden
mile open handicap fell to A. W. Perdriau, 125
yards; C. E. Purser, 8 yards, won the 150 yards’
open foot-race, iu H. M. Evans carried off
the mile open bicycle handicap; H. C Bagot, Mel-
bourne 8.C., 75 yards, won the mile open tricycle
race; F. H. Shackelford, 75yards, won tbe three
miles open handicap; and.C. E. Purser, 15 yards,
won the open quarter-mile foot-race.
Now that the official reports of the recent
Souakim shivoo are made public, it is painfully
evident that a considerable portion of the glorious
British Army is composed of blind idiots who
don't know enough of the science of war to wad a
pop-/un. According to the latest accounts, the
rebels maBe a determined attack on Souakim at all
points, and crowded round like so many “ soiur ”
ants on top of a dead frog. Tbi forts at once re-
turned the tire, and were supported by the guns of
the fleet, and all available forces were landed to
support the garrison. Artillery and musketry fire
was poured in for three or four hours continu-
ously, when the enemy—feeling a trifle tired, we
presume-went home to tie cold coffee round his
head, and yell out to his affrighted wife to rush
round and find the arnica bottle and brew the re-
freshing mustard plasters. And after all the sick-
ening slaughter had cooled down, it was found
that, one small rebel only had been killed: and this
solitary victim, it is now believed, committed sui-
cide out of compassion for the foe, and to give the
local amateur brass band a chance to show off by
tooting the “ Dead March ” at a warrior’s funeral.
Even a professional war-correspondent would
blush to lie over such a “ glorious victory.”
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We iha& he glad to have this index potted up b\j
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
Tattersall’s Club August 9.
Goonbiwindi August 13,14.
Toowoomba J.C August 15.
l'hargomindah J C August 21, 22.
Hawkesbury R.C. (Spring) August 21, 23.
Victoria TrottiDg Club August 30.
A.J.C. Spring Aug. 30, Sep. 2.4.
Cloncurry J.C. • September 3, 4.
Canterbury Park R.C September 13.
Geranium R.C September 17,18.
Liverpool J.o September 20.
Sydney Turf Club September 26.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,16.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C. November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
Narandera T.C..., November 27,28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 37, 28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) Tanuary 1.
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.2B, March 5, 7
COURSING.
Victoria Club August 21, 22.
AQUATIC.
M. Annual Regatta, Parramatta R.... August 9.
Hanlan v. Beach, Parramatta River August 16.
Matterson v. Edwards August 23.
T. Duley v. J. Massey, Illawarra Lake.. August 27.
S. Regatta September 13.
ATHLETICS
T. M. Malone v. Frank Arnold, 175yds ...August 12.
P. Duffy v. H. Stanton, 100yds., Hammond’s
Flat August 19.
J. Mole v. W. Neddrie, 100yds., Muswell-
brook August 23.
J. Mould v. W. Weddive, 150yds August 24.
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap.... September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports Sept. 6.
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
CYCLING.
Sydney B.C Club events August 9.
N. W. Union Race Meeting August 30.
Since they struck it rich at Mount Morgan,
the more “ bong-tongy ” residents up there actu-
ally do get their boots polished occasionally. Not
often, we admit; but, still, they do, and it is a
double-barrelled libel on the aristocracy to say
they don't. In connection with this praiseworthy
circumstance, a tale is told of an old Rockhampton
*dentity who, whilst giving evidence in a recent
assault case, was asked how he earned his living.
To which he proudly replied, “ I’m a norker ov
horabges, yer washup, an’ I also, at times, picks up
a few bob in the boot hillumynatin’ bizness.” Like
“ mobled queen,” “ boot hillumynatin’ ” is good,
and the “norker of horanges ” is probably a first
cousin to the “ culchawed ” bull-puncher who de-
scribed himself a 3 an “ ox-encourager.”
Michael Angelo Raphael Titian Billy, who
runs the Parkes Grttnticle, is a wily cuss in his
own small way, and slyly remarks once every
week that he is “always open to publish any items
that may be contributed, especially those that
pertain to local matters.” When anyone does
wprry himself to send a par. along, however, Billy
critically examines every line to see that tnere is
not the slightest syllable that would in any way
ruffle the dignity of the local Hampdens, because he
knowsi full well that, if he did aught to offend these
illustrious heroes they would convene a public
meeting and determine (on six inches of Highland
bug-juice) to have himself and his rag wiped off
the face of the earth immediately. Parkes must
be quite a nice little spot—especially for the
Hampdens.
Mr. Hayter’s “Handbook of Victoria”
contains an item of intelligence whicn has set us
thinking. Under the heading of occupations of
the people, Mr. Hayter gives us twenty-three
prostitutes.” Now, we’ve a vague suspicion that
Mr. H. must have overlooked ©no or two odd
thousand when he was compiling that Handbook,
of course, we can’t say for certain, because
the Harmy has been “redeeming” so many
t sisters ” lately that it’s hard to tell who isn’t
saved.” However, in compiling future statistics,
Mr. Hayter would find it a good plan to consult
some of the M.LA.’s—they might know of more
than twenty-three giddy ones.—
Well, really, Mr. Hayter,
The number should be greater—
A state of thinps so good we can’t expect*
And we think investigation
Of your latest calculations
Would show that twenty-three Is not correct.
SUBURBAN TIP-CAT.
(Dated from our “ eligible” Villa Residence .)
Put this, if possible, amongst the society
items, and illustrate it at the greatest pesiblble ex-
pense. The sphere has revolved; Joshua has been
at it again; and tip-cat is once more in. We
have had experience of the hop-scotch cercle,
the marble association, the top club, the
kerosene - tin and pine - batten cricket con ■
fraternity, but for something gorgeous ia
the sporting line give us the tip-cat society. A
prominent branch of this alluring body meets
near our commodious suburban residence, which
unites, with a genteel exterior, many contingent
advantages, which may be aptly termed as ‘‘ex-
traordinary.” Not only is there—as was the case
with the residence of Mr. Sampson Brass-”ex-
ceedingly mild porter in the immediate vicinity,”
but the same remark may also apply to the
whisky. We were beguiled into taking this de-
lightful villa by the allurements of a house
agent. We hadn’t seen the place, but laying
his hand on his waist-coat, he said emphatically,
■I only recommend that which I believe in. I
have,” he continued, not without emotion, “ built
up a sufficiency to support me in my declining
days. My relations and my family are also pro-
vided for; and even a reputed nephew is to be
seen at every land-sale. I have, therefore, no
object in deceiving the public.” He then wept
silently, and after wiping his eyes copiously upon
the official jack-towel, he handed us the receipt
for the first week’s rent. We then chartered a
fiend, indifferently disguised as a vanman, and
proceeded to move. The contractor for our re-
moval first required “ 10 bob,” with an advance of
{hie) half-a-crowsh. He then made a wheel fast,
and proceeded in search of his “ mate ” to help
him. In about three-quarters of an hour, he ap-
peared with a ruffian, if possible, more intolerable
than himself, who was driving a horse and dray of
an abject and dissolute appearance. No one was
required to let them in. Their first hiccup blew
the door open! Then they went to work, and
breathed so hard while smashing our most
cherished goods that a mad wag next door threa-
tened over the fence to prosecute us for keeping a
distillery. We arrived at our suburban residence
in the gloaming, and were much edified to discover
fungus growing in the kitchen and three big rat-
holes gaping in the parlour-lloor, An extensive
assortment of cockroaches seemed annoyed at our
advent, and the key of the frontdoor was a hollow
mockery, since we, at once, discovered by an im-
provised “ wicket,” chalked in red upon the best
bed-room floor, that the juvenile populace of the
neighbourhood had been in the habit of indulging
in cricket “and other manly sports” there, en-
trance being gained through the kitchen portal,
which had no key at all. There was no handle to
the bath-room door, and someone had taken a
fancy to the roof of the wood-shed. The walls
were everywhere protusely illustrated with
maps of Norway and Sweden, and the pre-
sent aspect of Khartoum, of Nature’s making;
and a shoulder-of-mutton bone in a condition of
blue-mould (evidently left by the last tenant in his
flight to some other eligible suburban residence)
somewhat obtrusively ornamented the passage.
All this was somewhat hard to bear; but we could
have borne with it-if only for the sake of the
mushrooms in the kitchen. What crushed us, how-
ever, was the gathering of the Tipcat Club imme-
diately In front of our desirable residence. This
socicy received our arrival with much contumely,
and its members were not, to our consternation,
the least bit impressed either by the stained kit-
chen-safe (which we have always secretly admired
and occasionally got up in the night to look at) or
the time-payment Bord, into which, by the way,
the vanman had contrived to drop several volumes
of assorted literature and a mouse-trap. In a word,
the club,instead of confining itself to silent ridicule,
openly reviled us, and designated our superior villa
as “The Vault.” Wedon’tunderstandmuchabout
the intricacies of tipcat, but what counted “ one ”
seemed to be to knock the “ kitten ” over into our
front garden, and for the gleeful and hilarious
“ push ” to come whooping after it. Hailing the
constabulary who happened to be passing, we
requested him to dissolve the tip-cat society at his
earliest convenience. He said he’d see to it, and
departed—probably to call out the military; but
has not since returned. Complete darkness only
caused the club to disperse; the president (who
was the last to depart) borrowing sixpence, and
being obliging enough to inform us that “ the old
toucher that had the vault before used to grow
mustard-and-cress on his counterpane.” Under
these circumstances our readers will, perhaps, not
be surprised to hear that there is again an eligible
suburban residence to let. We’re not greedy. We
don't want it. What we principally require now is
blood. The blood of an agent.


F
H
URNITURB BIIOW ROOMS.
BRADLE7 WTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS, »'id
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT. ___
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest, fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINET* for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEOANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG ri Ain D-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
B" EDROOM SUITES complete in various wopds.
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest draw era, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable r.aily English
Designs).—WARDROBE, lit-, with silvered
plaie-glass door; WASHSTAND, witti marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEVT, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.- Pine Tables, from jus.
(id. ; Dining TaoPs. from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. od.; Washstands from J2s. od.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.: Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 80s ; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
o
HQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
ogOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fa"hion-
V-F able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Occasional tables, elegantly timshea m
1 Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &e.
oHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
V_y just received. Bradley, Newtou, and Lamb,
O’Conncll-street.
AS Y OCCASIONAL CHAUS, tor
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
T\RA WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CH AIRS
U a GREAT VARIETY of NEW STVLFB.
Price.., from 12s 6d. Bradley. Newton, Lamb.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, fori • ing'CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. V«rv handv and Inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb. O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
bo MID, DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O'Counell-street.
DINING patent extending
sorew, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-AD JUSTIN G HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of tne body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete. and occupying only four inches isi thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
Various
B
AGATELLK BOARDS, Portable
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and L AMB.
17IRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
} and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
I FRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
‘ TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brats;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, ana Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streel s
ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 25b. each
BRA D LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAIV LONG-AItM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.— A very complete
Assortment; best make, lowest prices,
B
B
W
B
SOCIAL
Seventy cyclists sat down in Baumann’s
&IHkbs3H ,^2^ < s^
fora* Mr James
bv the champions, Bennett and bhackeltora, ana
Messrs. F. J. Empson, BL S. Bale, A. W Crane, g.
M. Moore, A. Wood, J- Oortand, E. H. M Kae, G.
H Porrv U E. George, K. Shute, ana r/r. n. u.
Cortis ■ Messrs F. Bevil and A. Lee filling the yice-
chairs.’ The speeches were very numerous; the
two Unions, whose friendly amalgamation had
been celebrated by the great meeting of the day
on the Association Giound, were pirop *ed,md
Mr F M Bladen was humorous ou tne roast ot
“ Cycling Clubs,” to which all the captains present
Jnt Mm„ tn renlv This was chietly because
waDdered bo orratically^frora
which latter were immediately repressed by aU
right-thinking persons. Mr. Kinpson, on tne
•‘ N S W Cyclists' Union,” was glad to see great
ridere present, not only from among-tb*-opnujtaUg
of N.S.W., but banana boys from yueensmna
/Mnr«,a and Perry), a 'possum from Victoria
(Shackelford), a Maori representative (A. Lee), and
Messrs Bennett and Cortis, ao ‘ chips from the
British Lion.” Mr. F. Bevil, in replying, admitted
, ui. n«raonal experience ot the delights
of C yobng P had beln, P so far, limited to five
verv nrecariou-s minutes on a tricycle: when
an irreverent joker suggested that it must
have been a very risky experience for the tii-
sfasm said he outpaced*thatVv;
a^ssaywsrs&"Ssss®
Wj l «?tSwllistelv'eS l, h‘m'th2“Bl«ht. and be’hfd
try as tuey ““ ii*j racing than was witnessed that
day Sometimes, away in the West, the temptation
to io b“k to his old love, ‘‘cycling,” became
almost unbearable, but he i J^Ht e^BB2 P he took
That very day two years, Sad August, 1883, he took
leave of bicycle-racing on the occasion of his final
race With the Hon. Keith-Falconer, but among all
his memories none would be brighter than that of
2nd Amrust, 1884. Hounds of applause followed
as the “amateur chamdon bicyc ist of the world
SLnmed his seat Mr. James Martiu. Mr. H. H
Stokes and one or two others had to leave to catch
trains ’but the evening was kept meirily up tor
some time afterwards, and a great many speeches
made Songs were given by Messrs. J. Cop-
land, A Edwards, K. Shute, b.J. . «md
others to the accom pan mien > ot Mr. D. H. stewar ,
of Melbourne, who proved a champion at the piano.
It was announc d tnat the Governor had promised
to ODen the Cyclists’ ball on Monday, and that the
Cn°sS bid deSdod to rocogniße Mr. BjMr.gr nd.
ioodloellnb ahowo all sides, nod the only fault
of the Cyclists’ dinner was that some ot the speeches
were so spun out that there was not time for all
the rest. # .
Many an eye turned anxiously skyward
nn Saturday morning, for thousands had deter-
mined to go to the cyclists gathering at Moore
Park and tine weather is all-important for the
racing of the thin steel steeds Fine weather t
was and the result was such a gathering of enthu-
well-dressed, interested thousands as but
finldom contrree-ates anywhere. in© stana was
hung with flags and coats of arms along the rail-
ingsf and' 1 above them right up to the promenade
top was a surging soa bv three 7
two o’clock, the seats were neatly full, by tnree,
the stand was crammed, and‘‘therewa's hardly
stood upon the steps; by four, there was na^y
been as great aarowd before on the Association
"f h,there could not be a much greater
one than b the Sydney Bicycle Club had on Satur-
dav afternoon. That the sport was worthy of
such an attendance, everyone admitted, f irst,
there was the maiden mile, with so many entries
that it had to bo run in three beats, and then a
flniid run off Several foot-races were interspers'd.
2nd at a quarter to three, the grand one-mile
sS.mninS.Sin camo on, and was run amid tne
deencst° excitement. For three laps, th • wary
competitors went steadily watching one another
thousand’’ people" strained wltb bb
thev rounded the back of the course, tne rour
machines lapping each over the other; the buzz
grew into a roar Lee dropped back as they passed
thltennis ground; Bennet gained a yard as they
the pavilion, and the two Melbourne cham-
pions? locked together, chased him down the ha d
™»’J™ gt&rjT&A 8w tKwt
, m der a round of n;ad cheering—Bennett, Shake-
underarouuu J+ . parade of wheelmen tol-
fowWhelUbtrColJb being the largest, and
* j fnr their ridiiASf. Iu the three-mile
farx u SK"« 3 tbeuiM »bb
iiiol goo Tone; out it’ was in the ten-mile, chain-
KU’hut'lae!? 'y‘tSld:‘ , they started.
Imriv times- the half-hour had gone, then another
Me toot 6 pT'&tSl Round'S witTwilJ
the stand rose in its intensity ot reeling, and
says* wrtasasas ss ss
sine w worked to n n g ghakeltord> flr?t
h the post, accomplished the remarkable
of leading a champion ten-mile race
from start to finish. Lee, though third, was
oSmiv nnnlaudeci as he returned to the pavilion,
while both P Shackelford and Bennett were hoisted
nn the shoulders of admirers and carried in
triumph off the course. Altogether, there were
tnirvent" and puntuality was fairly observed.
fTnder their bandmaster, J. Devlin, the Nayai
Brigade Band performed a programme of twelve
SStionSbut the buzz of the solid, packed crowd
geiecuou * b, band to penetrate. His
Ereeflency Lord Augustus Loftus came on the
Kxeeuency three a nd was duly received. It
m«v Sot be generally known thac His Excellency
fcakesdi keen interest in cycling, though c.rcum-
itnnce2 preclude him from active indulgence in
♦he snort But his vice-regal eye looks approv-
r22iv P un it as a means of exercise and recreation.
Sed in the course of quite a lengthy interview
which he had with a celebrated cyclist, Lord
Augustus not only talked most graciously on the
but handed to the honoured cyclist a
paragraph scissored from a newspaper bythevice-
Sfigai hand only that very morning, about the
cvoflng camp at Alexandra Palace, London, and
that it would be most interesting to have
aTmilar camp in thS region of Moore Par s, Sydney.
Theeamp scheme included sleeping tents tor tho
ridersand cooking accommodation, a marquee to
Unid ‘*ooo visitors, social parties every night,
22d evolution” and contests in the daytime.
The cyclist bowed reverentially, and expressed
his belief that the vice-regal idea was a brxl-
ulfrtf nnf> Lord Augustus now warmed to
th'e * sub feet, and further proceeded to pre-
dict that the day was not far distant when
Relists would, with the aid of science, be enabled
to sit on a saddle under which would he concea
a small accumulator, with force sufficient to am
the machine, and thus save the exertion oJieK-
powor. which, His Excellency thought, miffht he
fatiguing sometimes, especially in 10-mile races.
The experienced cyclist hastened to assure Eora
Augustus that the riders in 10-mile races alwajs
enjoyed them—especially when generous people
presented them with cups Then there was a
pause, but His Excellency did not seem to perceive
any particular significance in the remark about
cups, and after expressions of mutual respect, tue
two notable men parted. The show ot toilettes
was simply indescribable, the crush was tar too
great to see more than a glimpse here ana tnere.
and many of the best ones never left the scana.
But as they came in and out, enough was seen to
show that all the fashions were there in all their
varied beauties of style. Rich broches and satins,
suitable to the winter, were the rule, in riefi oara
shades, with now and then a light ex ® e P* l ° 1 11
relief. On all hands were cashmeres slashed witn
velvet or braid, or tucked round f* l ® .9^
bordered witn narrow gold lines, or studded with
spiral medallions. All the shades ot £j[®®° s *9“
purples were plentiful, and several dresses were
seen a glaring mass of red. Neat bonnets, fit-
ting clo*e. were worn more than any other one
style, and looked exceedingly nice; while another
point no one could help noticing was the
great number of very young ? irls who were
over-dressed and promenading by themsen es.
The slerder form ot a clever pianiste was very
observable for its conspicuous dress: a bodice and
puffings of rich bright brocade, sorrel colours on
fawn at round, and bonnet to match, with light blu©
silk skirt. Very beautiful was a blonde s ruby
velvet and silk, with stone-coloured felt hat and
feather. A fair specimen of a prevailing favourite
costume was lichen green velvet body, and broad
band of same round the hem ot a cashmere skirt
matching in colour; trimming of the velvet round
a neat little modified poke bonnet and tying under
the chin. Most cashmere skirts were made bird-
cage style, some airy and graceful in outline,
otners so badly shaped, heavy and solid-looking,
as to be quite unpleasing in appearance. The little
square shoulder capes were numerous, and they
set off some figures very daintily. A pair of blue
India muslins were studded with small pink circles,
peculiarly, and worn with plush hats mother-o -
pearl colour. A rifie green and dark-red, worn by
young sisters, were each trimmed with light grey
fur effectively. Peaoock-blue was charming, em-
bellished with sunflowers and buttercups. Are-
markable yet neat dress was of stone-coloured
cloth with cerise panels and drapery; and a dove
cashmere trimmed with lines ot lake velvet was
also neat. But it is useless to try and tell a tenth
of what were there. Those who walked mostly,
did so because they could not get seats, and many
lovely toilettes were never displayed at all. It
was in all respects a grand gathering.
He * *
Mrs. John Hardie. Mayoress of Sydney, held
another ot her pleasant social receptions on rues-
day. The early showers had cleared off, and the
afternoon was brisrbt and cheery as the stream of
vehicles laden with freight, mostly of the rnost
precious and fragile nature, rolled up to the Town
HhII. Mrs. Hardie received inside the large vesti-
bule at one end, and as her guests passed through
the curtains, a suave old gentleman announced
each name in tones which blended a large amount
of vigour with a moderate amount of harmony.
The vestibule was soon filled with a fashionably-
drc«sed throng, of course, ladies immensely pre-
ponderating, an i quite radiant with rich-coloured
raiment and bewildering.things in the bonnet line.
Numbers of small tables were dispersed aroun rt ,
the chairs allowed of little coteries indulging
in friendly chats, or moving about in the prosecu-
tion of acquaintanceship, as they might feel in-
clined Waiters handed round the usual coffee and
ices and from the outside corridor came the dulcet
music of a soft string band. Mrs. Hardie was
kept busy all the time with her numerous friends,
making them cordially welcome, or staying now
and again in conversation with a few intimes;
while the Mavor took particular charge of stray
gentlemen, and made them at home. Nearly
three hundred guests must have been present;
and only for the fact that the pi inter is now
grinding his teeth as he waits for “ copy,” we
would tell of some of the many beautiful toil3tto3
that were seea, There has seldom been so tine a
gatnering, and, moreover, seldom so good an op-
portunity to see the dresses, lor most of the
visitors, after duly payiDg their respects, passed
up the grand staircase and strolled about the new
offices and council chamber, which have ;only
lately l)f>en available. In the Mayors room, the
v,siting b ok was the centre of an anxious group,
who, teas in hand, double and treble banked its
rages in their determination to get their names
inscribed, or get crushed out of fashionable sym-
metry in the effort However, at length all slowly
moved off, and by 5 o’clock the Mayoress, having
seen most of her guests off the premises, was free
to congratulate herself on the conclusion of
another of her formal, and yet most pleasant
society duties.
• * •
Cyclists have been enjoying a round of
pleasure, in honour of the Victorian and Queens-
land visitors. On Monday night, the dydney
Bicycle Club gave a ball, which was opened by His
Excellency the Governor punctually at 9 o’clock,
there being about 140 people present. No fancy
dresses were worn by the ladies, though they dis-
played both rich and handsome ones, but gentle-
men had the option of cycling uniform, which
many adopted, and nearly all wore their silver
club badges on the coat-fiap. The cycling uni-
forms looked neat, and were eminently suitable
for dancing. After the Governor had opened a
quadrille with Mrs. Wood, he walked round and
was introduced to a number of ladies and gentle-
men, and while watching some couples, ho ob-
served : “ Ah, the waltz was different in my days.
The ladies didn’t rest their head on the young
men’s shoulder then.” This remark is one
that a number of young ladies might think over
with advantage. His Excellency specially asked
to be introduced to Messrs. Bennett and Shakel-
f ird (the one and ten mile champions), and also to
Mr. Edwards. Among others present at the ball
were Lieut. Nathan, Col. Halkott, Mr. Unwin;
office-bearers of the S.B.C. and Cyclists’ Union;
the leading representatives of fne various clubs
(Crane of Sydney, Shute of Suburban, Rugg of
Redl'ern, Peers of Balmain, Lambton of Burwood.
Reynolds of Oriental, &c.); Morse and Perry of
Queensland, and Empscn, Stokes, Bloomfield,
Lewis, Bagot, Stewart, and others, from Mel-
bourne. Mr. A. Lee also attended, though he did
not dance; Shakelford ani Bennett d d a fair
share; but Stokes proved the best stayer,
for, right up to the end, he was constantly on
the floor. Mersc, however, was the dancer. Music
was splendid, by Shapter and Herman s
band, and the programme of twenty-four
dances was enlarged by several extras, which
brought the ball to a close soon after three. Cal-
laghan catered for refreshments, which began to
get scarce as the morning wore on, and a plentiful
supplyof cabs awaited the revellers in the clear
moonlight outside. Messrs. C. E. George and E.
H. M’Rae worked hard and cheerfully to make all
their guests pleased, and the result was a grand
success for the first cyclists’ ball held in Sydney.
It should be mentioned that in each corner of the
room was a bright new bicycle by way of orna-
ment, but the ladies didn’t seem to manifest such
au interest in the machines when quiescent as
they do on the Association Ground when “ the
wheels go round.”
e • •
The Oddfellows held their thirteenth an-
niversary ball, and various nice seventeenth an-
niversary girls gat lered last Friday in the School
of Arts, Corowa. About seventy couples blest the
committee, the decorators, and the caterer. Miss
Graham wore pale pink and nun’s veiling, with
pink broche lace and cardinal flowers, and looked
very pretty. Miss Layton from Albury was much
admiied in white cashmere, with lace and silver
ornaments. A pretty little thing in white “ shower i
hail” muslin, with satin bodice, trimmed in lace
and silver flowers, was hailed with showers of ap-
plause, and divided the honours with the two
ladies above-mentioned. A nice girl from Brown’s
Plains, dressed in pink cashmere; Miss Shields,
from Melbourne, was neat in electric blue. Miss
Wilding wore pale pink with cardinal bodice, and
coiffure Ala Cbloe. Wahgunyah sent two sisters in
cream satin and cardinal moire. Miss Nixon was
prettilyjarrayed in pale blue broetae sateen trimmed
with cream and silver tlowers. White sateen
trimmed with satin {fold braid and tlowers, was
another nice dress, and Miss Wellington wore it.
Miss ffurnes looked fresh and pretty in pale pM
grenadine, as did Miss Clayton in pale pink. All
went merry as marriage bells, and in some cases
the comparison may be soon tested.
* * *
The Newtown “ Socials ” spread them-
selves out to the extent of a ball last Friday; and
very good it was, one of the cheeriest affairs that
have occurred this winter in the local Oddfellows
Hall. As the dainty girls tripped into their dress-
ing-room to unmuflle, it was soon seen there would
be no lack of the fairer element, and the bachelors
smiled inwardly as they thought of the good time
they were going to have- It is such a reliet to a
backward young man when, instead of beseeching
for a dance, he has only got to look calmly round
and select someone on whom to bestow nimseir.
When ladies are few, this particular kind of young
man has no chance; for everyone knows that it is
“ the brave ” who always get * the fair whethei
they deserve them or not. In other words, where-
ever lovely woman is concerned, the man who
doesn’t haste to the front gets badly lett. So the
only chance the timid young man has to trad®
himself off is when there is a full market. Well,
at Newtown, on Friday night, there was what we
might call a full market. Somehow, the baud, com-
prising four men specially selected for their genius,
was late in coming, and, in the meantime, a gentle-
man and a lady obliged with the opening dances
on a piano. Such kindness always renders persoi s
popular, but the sprightly little lady is already an
popular as ever she can be. When the musicians
appeared, the programme was regularly attacked,
and, as the tioor wae well prepared, dancing was
carried on with spirit till four M* the morning.
There were numbers of pretty dresses, and the
finest appeared to be a pale primrose silk with a
train, beautifully hand-painted lowers, and a
garland of flowers catching up the back drapery ,
front tablier of ruby satin quilted with pearls. A
favourite concert singer wore ruby and blue; and
from Balmain came a handsome girl, tall and lair,
in ruby and white lace, with her companion whose
darker style was suited by a shapely black velvet
robe. A heartbreaking kind of girl wore a sleeve-
less pink with longjstreamers, which, we remember
a small girl telling us in our boyish day s, indicate
that sweethearts may follow and catch it they
can. But the streamers, lE they do mean that, were
quite unnecessary in this instance. Iwo sisters
from the city were charmingly dressed in ruby
velvet, edged with pink chenille drops, and pink
pleated skirts; pearl-strung hair. From Cooks
River way was a little blonde in grey silk draped
with pink net; a tall, fair girl in blue veiling was
an excellent dancer; and an attraction from Pad-
dington wore a striped silk of pretty _ apple-green,
heavily trimmed with white lace. Finally, there
came from the Globe, a slim, sweet girl, in a gay
sateen of sky blue-and butter colour-so, just to
round off this inuoeent paragraph,
We'll take some words and plav on them,
As she played on our tender feeling;
Our heart is like her dress’s hem.
Round both alike there’s something steeling.
We’ll tell how Cupid pierced it through,
In one of our grim little ditties;
Once having seen that bodice blue.
We now feel far more blue that it is.
A nice affair she’s made of it—
Our heart we mean, she is its ruler
It’s now so soft it’s only fit
To be put in a butter-cooler.
This sma’l and sweet suburban flirt
Has worked our desolation utter;
Once having seen that “ butter skirt
We turn from any other but ’ er.
* * *
St. Nicholas’s Church, North Goulburn.
was the scene of a brilliant affair on the evening
of the 29th ult. The high contracting parties (it
was a wedding, dear readers) were Mr. H. L. Davis,
a blushing young Bowralite, and Miss Lliza Jane
Oram, second daughter of Mr. W. H. Oram, of the
Southern Argus, and grand High Priest of the
Goulburn Good Templars. The bride, a beautiful
and accomplished young lady, was led to tht altar
by her father, and attended by six bridesmaids,
five of whom were younger sisters. The best man
was Mr Barnett, of Bowral; Rev. Darcy-Irvire of-
ficiated, and the church was packed with spectators
and well-wishers. The Good Templars, of course,
turned out in full strength. The bride was dressed
in a delicious dove coloured silx, with the usual
wreath of orange blossoms. The bridesmaids ap-
peared in cream-coloured nuns’ veiling, trimmed
with hrochtS satin, and cardinal wreaths, and bear-
ing white camellias A gorgeous supper (fur-
nished by Adcock) was partaken ot at the bride s
father’s residence, at which some fifty guests sat
down. The bridal pair took the midnight train
for the metropolis and the honeymoon.
• • *
Next Tuesday will see the most fashion-
able public ball of the season, that held for the
charitable purpose of aiding the School of Indus-
try at Darlinghurst. The list of patrons is a most
distinguished one, including our Governor, Com-
modore, Commandant, and Mayor, and we do hope
they will all try to go, because patronage has but
au empT meaning when it does not include pre-
sence. Last year the hall was well supported, and
this year the committee trust to add a yet larger
gain to the fundi of the institution.
•* * *
On Wednesday, 13th instant, the first
Hyginx of the Sydney Owls for this season will
take place. Instead of the Protestant Hall, the
locale this time is fixed at the New Masonic, and
there is every prospect of its being as good as the
hvginxes always have been. Mr. L. De Groen will
conduct, as musical director, and promises a really
good concert, after which dancing will go on lor
several hours, and refreshments will circulate....
A large private ball is on the tapis at North Shore.
To-morrow (Friday), another of the pleasant
socials will be held in Tattersall s Hall, and then
two more will bring the members to their final
soirte at the end of tne season, which it is intended
to make a first-class affair. Mr. W. Dickson is the
new secretary.... At the railway officers picnic,
27th, a fine programme of sports is drawn up lor
the aotive young men, with good prizes; and danc-
ing will be for those who like a gentler dalliance
with pleasure, to the Young Australian band. A
Frank Smith luncheon at 2.... Lady Loch s first
reception of ladies at Government House, Me -
bourne; was attended by 1200 ladies, and she shook
hands with them all. This was fatiguing, but
politic. Herr Flock's band played, and light refresh-
mftntfi wore provided tor tbe fair visitois . ..Ibe
Mayor of Melbourne gave a grand ball on Tuesday.
Next week there is ;to be an elocution contest in
Maitland School of Arts. The pieces are Henry s
address to his soldiers before Harfleur and The
Bachelor's tale.”....Architects ot Sydney had a
grand dinner at Baumann’s the other night. .Young
Men’s Mutual Improvement Society to be
on Church Hill; non-sectarian....Gunnedah Good
Templars had an anniversary tea and entertain-
ment, consisting ol a nmea breach P™mwe wise,
and then wound up with a ball. The breach ot
promise cases generally come after the ba11....
Calico ball at Cootamundra on 4th Sept., for hos-
pital. ...Corowa is going to be very gay soon, the
annual show is on 13th Aug., the squatters annual
ball on the night before, and bazaars and thea-
tricals will f0110w... On Friday, a complimentary
hall was given in the Campbelltown Town Hall, to
Mr. Charles Bull, two years Mayor, and a large
number of people attended. Compagnoni catered,
and the music was also supplied from Sydney ...
Father Sheridan was the fortunate receiver of
over 200 so vs. and an illuminated address last week
Ht Camden Mr. Beveridge (ot S. Griffith Lo.)
e-ives a ball in Protestant Hall, Friday, Bth Aug.
Sn the b 2Bth inst * the Victoria Yacht Club give
their ball in the Melbourne Athenaeum ....The
young gentlemen attached to Government House,
Sydney, have been, ere now, conspicuous for both
white and scarlet lappels to their dress coats; but
the attaches to Sir Henry Loch s suite appear with
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)


Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. 60s Hunter-street,
Sydney.* ’
coat flap ?of sky-blue. Gay boys.... Last Thurs-
day, Mr. H. T. Webster, for some time manager of
A-j-S. Bank, Pairamatta, was presented by the
Mayor, on behalf of residents, with some jewellery,
on his leaving for the head office... At the cyclists'
banquet, Saturday, Mr. F. J. Empson said that
when Edwards reached Melbourne on his bicycle,
the cyclists 6tood “with eyes, ears, and mouth
azhast at his marvellous feat!''' Ears aghastl
Picture it, think of it, dissolute man Master
Bikers had their annual ball, at Melbourne, on
33rd July Bachelors ball at Ryde on Friday
night was a successful affair On 34th July, the
Excelsior Quadrille ->ssembly held their annual
ball in the Temperance Hall, Balmain. Plain and
fancy dresses mixed, the most conspicuous being
Columbine, Night, and a Greek Maiden. The hall
was decorated, and Liddiard Brothers catered.
Dancing ended 4.30a.m The concert in Flood's
hall, Narandera, last week, in aid of the family of
the late Austen King, netted oyer £35. Singing
was fair, Mr. S. Robins rendered his favourite,
“ Wait till the clouds roll by, Jennie,” so as to get
an encore; and Mr. Abbott, from Hay, was good in
his locally-adapted “Are you there, Moriarty ?”
Last week a pleasing presentation was made at
the Opthalmic Hospital, Miller’s Point; no less
than a fllty-guinea piano, to the institution
Misses Coveney and Skinner had collected the
funds; and St. Mark’s choir assisted on the occa-
sion with music. Paling had lent a piano during
the previous year—At a social meeting of the
Lodge of Australia, 390 E.C., on Monday, to cele-
brate the birthday of W.M. Rro. Booth, it was
decided to hold an anniversary picnic shortly
On 30th ult., a farewell soiree was given at
M’Mahon’s Hall, Narandera, to Mr. and Mrs. Tre-
velein, old residents, on their departure for Jeril-
derie. About. 30 couple present, dancing com-
menced at 9 o’clock, and at 13 a fine supper was
attacked, and the “Guests” were warmly toasted.
Songs and dancing then continued till 4 a.m.. con-
cluding a most pnjoyable evening in the “ city of
sand.” -
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“J.D.G.”: Received another, and yours is too
wordy . ..“J.G.B ”: Crowded out this time
“H.M.”: Far too old “J.P.8.": Thanks;
but just a trifle too “ dressy.”
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Emulation Lodge, E.C. (Town Hall) August 7.
Surrey United C.U. Annual Dinner (Town
Hall, RBdfern) ......August 7.
Masonic Ball (Richmond) August 8.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nit-hsdale) August 8.
Burwood Private Assembly August 8.
Comp. Bicycle Sports August 9.
Randwick Races August 9.
School of Industry Ball (West’s Rooms).August 13.
Oar) Hyginx (New Masonic Hall) August 13.
Banquet to Mr. Correy August 14.
Duke of Edinburgh Highlanders’ An-
nual Dinner (Protestant Hall) August 14.
Sydney Liedertafel, ladies’ night (Exhibi-
tion) :... August 14.
Opening of Agricultural Show ...August 14.
Victoria House Ball (Nithsdale) August 15.
Petersham Social : .... August 15.
Newtown Social August 33.
Balmain Collingwood C.C. Ball (School
of Arts, Balmain) August 33.
Woollahra rrivate assembly (Nithsdale)August33.
Railway Officers’ Annual Picnic
(Botany) August 37.
St. Vincent’s Ball (Exhibition) September 3.
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle, —The Western Suburbs gave
another of their concerts last Wednesday night at
the Burwood School of A rtf'. There is something
so fanny about this musical society. They never
seem to have any regular practices, but, when a
concert is due, they luss about and get together
as many people as they can to assist from all parts
of the city; and, after perhaps one rehearsal—at
which about a third of the members attend—they
give such a work as “Marathon.” You may judge
ol the effect of the overture when, in one part, the
strings played four crotchets to the bar, the winds :
two, and the piano sometimes one and sometimes'
the other. It would have been amusing had it not
teen so distressing to the ear, for they all looked
so nappy and pleased w ith themselves. But they
Rot through it somehow, and actually finished
together, but how they managed it was more than
i could tell. The soprano part of this nice little
el?- * MarathoD,” was agreeably sung by Miss
Lhizlett, and the tenor by Mr. Harry Ross. In the
pretty duet these two voices blended wonderfully
wen, and, indeed, I may say it was the gem of the
whole work—the tenor especially was remarkably
sweet. Mr. Booth's bass was another great assist-
ance, and, later in the evening, he succeeded in
rousing the undeniably apathetic audience to
something like enthusiasm by his singing of
King’s Champion.” Mr. Ross chose “ Ever
lmne for his solo, and we could not help
wondering why he had not taken as promi-
nent a place at these concerts before, for he
w r a , really nj ce sympathetic voice. Mr.
*1 beans pretty song “Who snail be winner?”
°Pera “Populaire,” was sung by
Miss Chizlett with liute obligato, but I have my
cia prejudice against songs with three verses, for
w, matter , how Pretty they may be, it's none the
w l J?? r slble to have to o much of them. I think if
m Lean were wise he would cut “ Who shall
” downtj a two-verse song. And tho
s?,K UKht has j ust struck me that the Western
ouDui tjs concerts without Miss Cpizlett would be
to T Mam let ” without Hamlet. The Metropoli-
wn Liedertafel gave two or three of their best
trmo which helped greatly to give some
H* 6 concert; but it is a pitiful thing that a
society like the Western Suburbs was, is compelled
io seek so much help from.other sources before a
concert can be given. And it is not fair to Mr.
Lean, the conductor, that there is not better
management about practices, &c>; indeed, if he
wei @ not the Bweetest tempered of.men, he would
son! do w i th tbem - But surely the
it was Wlli PUII together a g ain soon, and be as
you in W!, nt of some new easy music? If so,
bv CL?o- 0 mmcnd to you two new Dublications
Bnng™lielmo Lardeili, the “ Narina Waltz ” and a
aad g tnn^- d . Be , slde the Sea -” The wBltz is fresh
th« Q tanef .ni< and I am certain you will like it; and
k n ®°?* is within such nice easy compass tnat I
tiv ", " 11 suit Y°u exacts. It is rather plain-
An?i 7* • tbat * 1 know, is no fault in your eyes.
donUvM? 4 reminds me that I beard the “Sar-
th„ t o]Ra ’ the same composer, plaved by
n i £h* ICl ri Btra at the Academy of Music the other
Mona" w, l 'u as , arranged tor the instruments by
bright * A U i! ll + a , de ’ and 80u n d cd quite lively and
the “’ ,et mo k “°"' “ d 1
„ btinßy make out whether the Queensland
folk like their new Governor or not. I have beard
It whispered that he Is very exacting, and that the
poor aide-de-camp is nearly worked to death. But
they are rather hard to please up there, I fancy;
for I remember when poor Sir Arthur Kennedy
nrst went there, although his genial manner and
kind words won their hearts, they were dreadfully
off ended because at the annual Government House
ball the refreshments consisted of little more than
biscuits and lemonade—as if the host’s hearty good
humour was not worth all the turkeys, jellies, and
champagne in the world 1 And another point
about this Governor was that he went nearly
everywhere he was invited. You can hardly be-
lieve that, can you ? I remember onoe when we had
gone to that sunny land on a visit, we were invited
to a matinee—a very amateurish performance,
but fashionable, notwithstanding—and His Excel-
lency was there. Two young ladies were strug-
gling through a duet, when one of them turned
two leave at once, which caused them to break
down entirely. To the utter confusion of every-
body bir Arthur began to applaud furiously; and
it was ever so long before his A.D.C. could make
him understand that the duet was not finished,
and that if he would permit them the young ladies
would continue it. Was it, I wonder, that he had
no knowledge of music, or that he hoped they
would take a hint and spare him a repetition of the
performance, that made him affect to misunder-
stand ? Now, this sort of thing must be little short
of purgatory,to a man, and one can’t help admiring
one who goes through it as good-humouredly as
did poor Sir Arthur Kennedy. I’ve often thought
what a dreadful nuisance to a man a musioal
wife must be—that is if his tastes lie in another
direction. One poor fellow once told me in an
aggrieved voice, that although he did not know a
single tune from another, he was expected to go
to every concert and sit them out with his wife,
which, he declared, was worse than going to have
a tooth drawn. “There is,” he said, “only one
tune in the world that I can recognise, and to me
it is the best of music.” “And, what is it?” I
asked. Why, the National Anthem, to be sure;
and I only know that by seeing the people rise
OUR GALLANT DEFENDERS.
(A FACT.)
MRS. MAJOR SNOBLEY (to the Major): “GOOD GRACIOUS, GEORG-, LOOK OUT OF THE
WINDOW, THERE’S THAT CAPTAIN JONES AT IT AGAIN; POSITIVELY INDECENT,
I CALL IT!”
THE MAJOR: “CONFOUND THE FELLOW, I’LL HAVE HIM CASHIERED. WHAT IS IT
l HIS TIME.” ( Tries to look, but its too shortsighted. Is popularly believed to have been appointed
because lie can’t see three yards, and is consequently eminently fitted to direct artillery opera-
tions at three miles’ range.) “WHAT OUTRAGE IS HE COMMITTING NOW, MARIA?”
MRS - MAJOR SNOBLEY: “HE’S (sob), HE’S TALKING TO A NONCOMMISSIONED
OFFICER.” (Is overcome by her feelings.)
and then I know that the agony is over.” Of
fourse, this is rather an exaggerated case; though
just listen and I will tell you what actually oc-
curred in Sydney, and not long ago, either. Regi-
nald Toms p ;ayed Weber’s “Rondo” at,a recital,
which was given in Paling’s rooms once, and as he
happened to be at his best it was emphatically en-
cored; but, before he had a chance of responding
to the encore, a well-known University gentle-
man stood up and commenced to make a
speech—about music, I believe. Now, this
looked uncommonly as if he intended to slight
Mr. Toms, though he convinced us afterwards that
nothing was further from his thoughts; for as the
applause continued, he could not make himself
heard, and it suddenly seemed to strike him that
something was wrong. Now, I must confess to
you, dear, that we thought dreadfully hard things
about the Pro the gentleman, for a few
minutes, but when he humbly apologized for his
apparent rudeness, and declared that he took the
last solo for God save the Queen,” why, we
were melted at once and felt quite sorry for mis-
judging him. But from that time, Weber’s
Rondo is just as well known to us by the title of
Orod save the Queen.”
B lo , ck has been quite gay during the past
wkat do you think they say of us now ?
2; “ft„ i at caQ 1 alk Properly, w hat next, I
wonder I Alter walking around two or three
times one day, a Melbourne gentleman remarked.
I see it s quite true what they say of you Sydney
girls down in Melbourne.” “And what’s that?”
we asked, breathlessly. “ Well, they say that
although you know how to dress quite as well as
they do, you spoil the effect altogether by your
shambhng, careless carriage. Now, look at that
pretty maiden, h»t continued, “in the grev velvet
costume, with just a sensation of cardinal here
and there. It s about the most tasteful thing »’ve
en to-day; but a man forgets how nice it is when
the wearer walks, or, rather, waddles as she does.”
We were rather crestfallen, I can tell you: but as
we were curious to know what this severe critic
meant by graceful walking, we begged him to tell
us as soon as we came across his ideal. And whom
do you think he pointed out? None but our own
■^ a J ero P l - And then we were convince?
that he was right. Tiny bouquets of natural
flowers fastened onto muffs are very pretty; but
I have seen them worn so large that they look
and loud. These cheap fashions are so apt
to be exaggerated by those who aim more at con-
f ood , taste. I saw a brunette in a
t'h ca ®hmere dress, and ihe peculiar
thlaj? & b°ut it was that it did not look a bit
nut) e , in fact, it was very beooming—and the
hat waa white straw trimmed with bands
of cardinal velvet. A brown ottoman cord
trimmed with brown embroiderv had the short
jacket opening from a cream plush waistcoat
cream plush hat and brown plumes That was*
f®ally uncommon. The most fashionable mode of
trimming the loose wide skirts now is by having a
very broad band of velvet round the hem and
graduated tucks half-way up the skirt; and jacket
SSKKa. ,h “““‘'' <=“ -“"W •»
We went to see the Montague-Turners in “The
Pirates of Penzance’ on Saturday night, and,
although we may have bad more sylph-like Mabels,
never has one looked nicer nor sung the part
more charmingly than Miss Annis Montague on
this occasion. Her white satin skirt with pink
tunic and large white hat with pink and blue
plumes, became her wonderfully well. Mr Turner
made a substantial Frederick, and I don’t think
ho was in his very best voice; but, considering
that it was an opening night, things wont verv well
indeed, and we all felt justified in prophesying a
brilliant season. There were many handsome
dresses in the circle, but I have no time to describe
any this week. Thanks for the lovely pressed
ferns you sent me. They are quite a boon, when
flowers are scarce, lor table decorations, &c. I
just mix with them a few red berries or sunflowers
and the effect is as sweetly pretty as the curls at
the ends of Gordons moustache-Gordon, the
singer, I mean. u ’ me
Ever yours,
MAR.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Shareholders in the Pyrmont Bridge Co.
will get the full nominal value of each share with
a bonus thereon of £3 10s. At the Board’s last
lunch, they gaily drank to tne bridge that had
carried them so nicely over, coupling with the
toast the name of that arch oracle-worker, Sir
Wigram.-...N0 inscription yet upon Michael Fitz-
patrick’s tombstone. Well, that’s better than
a lot of lies Cruden, town clerk of Towns-
adle, has been dismissed. Lack of agree-
v ent with truth said to be evidenced by
municipal accounts. From a Cruden more eon-
mrdance was expected.... Solicitor Levien is said
co have said that the law reports of the St. Leonards
toECORDER are the best he has ever read, which
Ri counts for the worth Shore-y flavour of Levien’s
law—A wail went up one late Sabbath night from
the parsons of Parramatta that the gas supplied by
the local company burned low and feeble. Surely
a “dim religious light” is in exact harmony with
their mode of thought, and should have suited ’em
all to pieces! The Port Lincoln (S.A.) bench has
sent up an aboriginal for six months for stealing
oysters from a bed of the sea—a shocking crusher
for the principle of the Natives for the Natives...
The Northern Territory folk have a right to be
mad. The South Australian Government charges
them the same rate for telegrams to China or
EuropG as people in Adelaide, no consideration
being made for the fact that a message from Port
Darwin to Hongkong or London hasn’t got to pass
over the overland line Rumour says that all re-
muneration to clerks of Petty Sessions will soon
be abolished. Considering that the “ perks ” fre-
quently run as high as live “ centuries ” per
annum, this change will scarcely give “ universal
satisfaction.”— i he Townsville Standard says
that the late De Hogton, pressman, used to say
that only the life of one very old and stubborn
man stood between him and a peerage. Hum I
There’s a lot of that sort about; scarce a boarding-
house but what could furnish one of the kind—
and (without prejudice to the lateDe H.) a blanked
seedy lot they are....J. S. Calvert dead, ageds9.
Arrived m N.S.W. in 40, coming out in same ship
as Leichhardt In ’44 joined latter’s first expedi-
tion; was wounded in the attack made upon the
camp by the darkies, what time Gilbert, naturalist
to the party, was killed. Thereafter traded on the
Kudos he acquired on that trip. Married Louisa
Atkinson, plant collector and insipid scribbler of
the Australie” type.... The fuss which is made
about small-pox in these colonies seems very ridi-
culous in view of the fact that there is always
Bra ?v:*P ox London just as there are measles
and broken legs. In the four weeks of May last,
fatal small- dox cases alone were 30,17, 36, 40...
Alter all it is the spoon that makes the greatest
stir in the world A good editor should always
be cl 2*hed and in his write mind.... O’Kane is mad.
ine Charters Towers Anglican* are on for vet an-
other bazaar with the same old relics There is
truth in what Thadeus says:—“The Anglican con-
gregation here ought to put their hands in their
pockets and build their churches and their bishops’
palaces, without stuffing their old relics down
peoples throats. This is the third or fourth
bazaar now played off with these old duds.’’... Who
shall decide when doctors disagree? Says Dr.
Nooze: • Sir George Grey—the Bayard of colonial
politics (yes, Hogue, the old dog can bay ’ard) —
practically counts for nothing in the coming con-
test. And Dr. Rum says: “Sir Ge rge Grey ap-
pears to bo master of the situation.”
• • •
A Bill just passed reducing factory hands’
working hours to 11 daily, is expected to paralyse
Austrian manutacturies—At Portsmouth, the
unco guid have got a snub. The General com-
manding has refused to stop the military band
Sunday performances in the parks.... The Rev. Mr.
Mackenzie, Episcopalian, officiated, in June last,
m St. Giles s Edinburgh. This was the lirst time an
Episcopalian clergyman officiated therein since the
historic day in 1637 when Jenny Geddes threw her
stool at the head of the minister in indignant pro-
test against the use of Papistical forms.... The
proceeds of Spurgeon’s jubilee birthday chivoo,
xu lt \. ll ?, J V ond o n last month, are to be devoted to
the building of a tabernacle at Auckland, N.Z., for
his son, Tom Thomas Barber Wright, ot the
Midland Counties Herald, is alloged to be the
originator of the hospital Sunday movement.. ..
Massowah, on the Red Sea, wrecked by an earth-
quake—which, however, is better lor the natives
than a bombardment dla Alexandria... .The Bos-
ton Transchipt asks: “Does the redundancy of
doctors in the United States account for the small
proportion of the population ?” Well, abortion
pays....At a political London Club, a lucky
member drew the lirst, the second, and the
third horse in this year’s Derby sweep
I ourpenny-bit necklaces are the thing in England,
hence those coins are becoming scarce. Good
samples aro worth 8d each Uniform of the
Royal Hungarian Guard, the “ Ungarische Krone-
wache,” each private a Magyar noble: Scarlet, so
thickly braided with silver - that it shows in equal
proportions; pantaloons, skin-litting, yellow
boots, sable-skin calpac, with bullion aigrette, and
plume of white heron, in lieu of the dolman, a
leopard’s skin fastened on the breast with a silver
brooch, chased with the arms of the kingdom.
Mount this Guard on a white thoroughbred, add
housings of green and silver, and embroideries of
the arms of Hungary and multiply this by fifty,
and you have the Royal Hungarian Guard. This
the escort of the Kiag of Hungary, now that of
the Emperor ot Austria, the Archer Lifeguards,
Archers no longer, in their uniform of scarlet, with
Hoggings of gold bullion, gold helmets, white
plumes, black horses, and trumpeters in gold cloth
tabards on grey steeds-flfty-four all told.... The
mainsail of Mr. Jameson’s new 85-ton yacht
Irex, is larger than that of any craft of her size
foreign showmen, acrobats, and itinerant pro-
fessionals, by a new law require two licenses when
doing trance, viz., one (a permit to enter French
territory) to be delivered by the Prefect of the
frontier department, and the second from the
Mayor of the Commune in which they intend
exercising their peculiar line of entertainment.
The issuing of the latier is optional on the part of
the Mayor. . By making the British Militia the
nursery of the Line the efficiency of the former
service has been seriously threatened, a yearly
increasing difficulty being found in keeping up the
strength of the commissioned ranks.... During ’B3
out of .160 actions brought in English county courts
by men against their employers, under the Em-
ployers Liability Act, in only 05 were damages
actually recovered... Baroness Burdett-Coutts and
hubby took a leading part in organising the dis-
patch of messengers laden with newspaper cuttings
to Khartoum. Some 500 articles, letters, paragraphs
reports of public meetings, etc., cut from London
and provincial papers, and in triplicate, have been
sent by three distinct agencits to Gordon, who when
he gets ’em should oertainly cry “ o scissors' ”
Litehary Chuhchman says that
Max O Rell is a I rench master in a very large
Lopdon school and is the son ol a French Professor
at Oxford. If that be so, H. Bu<£, French master.
Merchant Taylors School, and son of Jules Bue
Teacher of French, Oxford (there is no Professor
ot Trench there) is Max O’Rell, to whose elbow
more power!. ..Sir J. L. A. Simmons, G.C.8., a
sapper,” senior General on the active list, has re-
lieved General Sir A. Borton, G C.M.G., as Gover-
nor of Malta (screw, £5000.) Lieut. Gt noral Lord
Chelmsford, G.C.8., who in another month would
have had to go on the retired list (where be ought
to have been ever since Isandhlwana), succeeds
Lieut. General Maitland as Lieutenant of the
lower (old Sir Richard Dacres is the Constable)
The officer of the Royal Household, whose duty it
is to collate for Her Majesty’s book of extracts
newspaper articles and pars bearing on her acts
and those of her family, might not inaccu-
rately be called the Royal al-bum-bailiff
Belgian emigrants contemplate a national settle-
ment in New Zealand, settlements of the kind
always fail. Nothing like blending good strains
•• • The Cape Colony intends the annexation of
Bechuana. The Boers will probably have some-
thing to say about the proposal .. In 1883, P. and O
boats (tonnage, 170,000) did 2,226,783 miles of travel"
and eonsumed 400,000 tons of coal (£500,000); wages
and victualling took £480,000; Canal dues, £2OO OUO-
- and pilot charges, £llO,OOO. .. Private Gallant’
of the Bth Middlesex Vol., the winner of the 24th
Wimbledon Meeting's Queen’s Prize. The gallant
private thereby touches for £250 and the N R A
gold medal.... Skipper Custance, of H.M.S. Fla-
mingo, has ordered the arrest in Jamaica of the
commander of a Spanish gunboat, for having iired
upon ajßritish sloop of war—so, at least, says a
cablegram, which we don’t believe, seeing that
such a proceeding would te highly irregular and
quite contrary to precedent... “ Buckshot ” Forster
to preside at the Federation Conference. If it had
been a Disintegration I our-parler, now, he would
have been the right man in the right place. As it
is, he’s a most angular peg in a round hole No
autumn campaign in the Soudan, says Harting-
ton. It seems that Gordon doesn’t want to be
rescued, and, if rescued, won’t come home. As
the Grand Old Man thinks over that an-
pointment, he sadly murmurs, “ Sorry I spoke ”
The rector of Dunbolme, Lincolnshire, has nub
lished a simple catechism, from which we quote a
question and answer :—“ls it, then, a sin to neg-
lect thine own minister and thine own parish
church?” Answer—“ Undoubtedly. Because it
is an open defiance of God's commandment
‘Honour thy lather and thy mother;’ thy Father
in God, thy mother the Church.” Parsons dun
home!....Aurdlien Scholl thus word-paints the
world of the Parisian speculator:—” Func-
tionaries, judges, and agents have no interest
whatever in the morality of the nation. With
them the sole concern is to enrich their family and
their mistresses by making the most of their op-
portunities. The end of all things wiil shortly be
either fortune or suicide—not the fortune which
is the reward of sustained effort, but the rapid, the
sudden rise to fortune—a big prize in a lottery or
a gros coup—gold mines where no gold exists, gas
companies in the middle of Africa, South Pole
railway schemes, Madagascar tramways, gutta-
percha sugar companies, &c. Some day-it is not
r mf _t , he , t) , oiler win burst. Big financial houses
will break like overcharge d balloons, and Paris
will be Ischia after the earthquake.


The Liberal has dug the following pre-
cious morceau from out the mawkish goody-
goodyism of the hoys’ Own Paper, a magazine
f'Ublishad by the holy men of the Leisure Hour.
t is a description of a young trout:—“What a
wonderful little feliow it is! This is the iish that
shall hereafter make the blood thrill with an ex-
quisite pleasure as it bounds and flies up, down,
and across the stream, scarcely hooked by the deit
hand of piscator. How glorious are the works cf
the Creator.” This is as good as the pious Isaak’s
advice to ail that are lovers of virtue: “Be quiet,
go a-angling, and thus use your frog—put you.-
hook thougn liis mouth and out at his gills, etc,,
and in so doing use him as though you loved him. ’
His mind was more attuned, though, to a humane'
regard for animals, who wrote:—
“ Enjoy thy stream, O, harmless fish,
And when an angler for his dish,
Through gluttony’s vile sin.
Attempts, a wretch, to pull thee out,
God give thee strength, O, gentle trout.
To puli the raskall in!”
If necessity is the mother of invention,
the fathe;.- of it is a certain bagman who was
travelling down South, a few days ago, and who.
wishing tc have the pleasure of his own compan y
only, during his journey secured a train-car all to
himself by hanging a shingle outside on the doer,
with the following notice chalked thereon;—
i “KEEP BACK. :
: Case op Typhoid Fever.” :
There was a most decided rush on the cars that
day, but no one would face the fever ward com-
partment—ln fact many preferred to stand in the
truck that was farthest from it. By and bye, at a
roadside statiOD, a guard came along, and spotting
the ingerdous legend shouted to the lightning
dodger on duty, “Hey, Jim; send a telegram to
Goulburn, for th‘ police to be at the station with
the hospital cart and disinfectants; bad case of
typhoid here t* be quarantined.” Then he winked
profusely, spat in a Mongolian hawker’s eye, and
went on his way rejoicing. Long before the train
reached Goulburn, the shingle was unhitctied and
slung into a blind lagoon, but the way that car
was paokod for the rest of the journey, was a
caution to tinned sardines.
Go ahead with the music once a Lain, and
let the fun be uncontrolled as usual. Madame de
Kolomine and the Lord’s announted of Hesse (as
he Is sometimes facetiously called) have come to a
peaceable understanding at last, and in this model
Madame is now pensioned off on £lOOO a year for
life, besides a nice little present of £25,000 cash
down—as “a token of esteem,” &c.—and the very
appropriate title of Countess von Romrod, which
comes from the Grand Duke’s Jadg-Schloss, near
Jugenheim. In consideration for all these
thoughtful little trifles, old woman Romrod, on
her part, promises not to reside either in Germany
or England, and, although not stipulated in the
bond, we believe she also promises not to show the
giddy old Dook up in the streets, or give him a
turn at the opera, or go for his new wife’s wool
whenever she meets her on what Andy Lynch
would call the “fray Parisian Boolyards.” The
Hessian Landtag has kindly prorogued, sine die, in
order to escape being pestered with awkward
questions put by ridiculous Landtaggers of the
A. G. Taylor pattern, who might want to know
why the State should be burdened with the keep
of a dodgasted fancy—[Ah! would you 'i —Ed. B.]
well, putting it mildly, of the Duke of Hesse’s
Kolomine. All this time we never hear a single
word about old man de Kolomine at ail. He ap-
pears to have boon clean knocked out in the first
round, and, while Madame is away philandering
with the Landtaggers, her patient old ass of a
legally ordained spouse is down in the cellar peel-
ing spuds, or amusing the dirty-shirted little
Kolomines by singing “Cry babby buntin’ your
mammy’s gone a huntin’,” as he accompanies him-
self on a Jew's-harp that he borrowed from the
baker. All this is simply lovely, and makes us
feel inclined to revile our parents beyond redemp-
tion for not briuging us up to the business of
either a Grand “ Dock ’ or a still grander Kolo-
raine. Just here we’ll pause, and ioolc up the date
fixed for the exeeuti'u of tae next Germua
Socialist.
HILAIRE .
“ Combien I Ha, now, sweet one, it is to me one
singular thing how profoundly I am touched with
dear love! Bz, sz, I frizzle, I try, Honora I blaze
like fat in one red Are. In ze beautiful language
of ze Eagleesh, I’m tip-top. I love ze Engleesh
since I met thee, Honora Nice language, nice
peoples, nice land, nioe everytings! ”
“Hear Hilaire! ”
“Ah, mon Dieu, Honora, thy request makes my
soul to squirm. How shall I myself nerve thy
ardent petition to at present grant? I have
honour, ambition, and wtiat is here called le sang.
1 have esprit, Honora, and soon it shall come to
thy ears that I shall be known throughout the
land as one very distinguished wag.”
“ Consent, dear Hilaire. You see we have no
money now, but, if you agree to what I ask you,
we arc bound to have plenty in a couple of years.
Old Bloggs can’t live longer than that, and I’ll
make him settle as much on me as will afterwards
keep both of us happy.”
“O’est impossible, Honora. I am one very
exalted man in the faculty called la virility. Thou
wilt soon be my bride. I will wait not. Gentille
Honora, make me not grumpy.”
"But. dear Hilaire, think of the consequences.”
“del! Think not of the dark; think of the
bright, when to me will come the recognition pub-
lique that lam one grand wag! Ha, Honora!
Then will come plenty of ze moneys. What if I
am plus pauvre now? In Melbourne there is one
great KeView that to genius for the wag gives
large moneys. I will just go down there, and sell
one long paper shining with idees, pensties, juge-
ment, and l’esprit, or what is expressed beauti-
fully in ze Engleesh as ze waggery. Then we’ll
have beaucoup of moneys.”
“Is it the Colonial Coffin you are thinking
about ? ”
“ Oui, Honora; that name is it.”
“ Now, do have sense, Hilaire. You provoke me
by showing that you know so little about these
things. In fact, unless I can make money for you,
I see you will miss your way altogether. Ask
some of the writers to the Colonial Coffin how
much they get. A few that want to keep their
names in face of the public spend half a week over
an article and send it in. In addition to losing the
half-week, they buy a dozen copies apieoe, and
post them about to their friends. That’s how the
thing lives. But you'd never gee a penny from it,
Hilaire.”
“Ze titil!”
“ I had a sweetheart before you, Hilaire, and I
know all about it. He sent in several articles, and
when he saw them printed he bought a copy every
month and presented it to me. He also took me to
the theatre and hired a yacht. He said it would
all come out of the Colonial Coffin. But he
never got anything.”
"Ze tifll!”
" He went down and asked for the editor one
morning, but the editor showed him the soles of
his boots and said, ‘That’s how I ami’ So you
must give me my way, Hilaire. Let me wed
Bloggs. You manage to get on as best you can.
Bloggs is now 75. He’ll drop off any day. He’s
willing to make a good settlement on me. Then
you and I can have a fine wedding and start hap-
pily.”
“ Ah, Honora, la Constance, ze poesie of love, it
does not alMw. Je suis un homme of one mind
noble and heroic. I am of ancient stock, or what
8e Engleesh elegantly call breed; one frank,
chivalrous, grand man every way. I not stand
that. I rise up, shake my hands, become roux,
swear godam; le diab .”
“Easy now, Hilaire. This is the way to look at it:
lam what you call a young lady now. I like you
and you like me. If we marry now, what is there
before us? Hunger, poverty, squalor. Let us
wait two years, and, perhaps, not more than two
Months. lam then a widow. We marry soon
after. What then? Kiches, comfort, abundance
or everything.”
“Divine Honora! Rosbif, beer, lesatours, on our
part. Dat is it. Hat is one grand picture to look
up at. But then thou art une veuve. Now, then.
La pauvrete, la faim, no vivres I Dat is black-eyed
melancholy, Honora. Now me tinks of it, oollar
Bloggs.”
“ I knew you had sense, Hilaire."
“And resprit, divine Honora!”
Twelve months pas 3. Hilaire speaks:
“Ah, ha! Ha, ha! natter and fatter. Lesobseques
Sont far off, avay far off, far off. Ah, na! Ha, ha!
Rosbif, beer, un chateau when he dies. But he
dies not. Instead, latter and fatter. Ab, ha! Ha,
ha! No room here for genie, for l'esprit, for ze
wag. Vive, la belle Eranco! One ieetle plan is in
mine head. Out it comes, and then once more Igo
to the land of my ancetres. Ze little plan will lpy
epousailles with divine Honora consummate. Ah,
ha! Ha, ha! Rosbif, beer! Ah, ha, les vivres!”
Hilaire has heard that the steamship Smeller is
at the Heads, and that the Melbourne Board of
Health has ordered her to be placed in quarantine,
owing to a rumour that variola is on board. He
rubs some mud on his face, scratches the skin off
the side of his nose, forces a toe through one of
his uppers, and rushes straight to the doctor in
charge.
“Ze sick patient,” said he, “I wants to see,
doctor.”
“ Be off," cried the doctor; “ how dare you come
about here ? It’s small-pox.”
“Ah. ha!” said Hilaire; “ I am ze representative
of ze Blue Nose newspapier.”
The doctor fell back in his chair He knew his
commands were explicit to prevent all approaches
to the patient. But he also knew that if he
offended that paper his reputation would not be
safe day or nignt. He would be watched, dogged
about, pimped alter. Whereas, if he let on he es-
teemed its opinion and did something to please it,
it would advertise him if he only whispered a joke.
So ho winked, and Hilaire knew how to act.
Behold Hilaire. He is running. What has he
in that piece of paper ? It is the top of a stocking.
He holds a piece of camphor to h»s nose and runs.
Ha, ha, who is that fat old man he meets? He
toddles along, rosy as a baby. It is Bloggs. Look,
Hilaire walks behind him ; puts something
into the pocket of the old man’s coat: turns about
and walks up the street.
Next day Bloggs is unwell, and several others
are unwoll. In four days after some say small-
pox has broken out in town, and some siy it isn't
small-pox but chicken-pox. Those who say it isn’t
small-pox, ask, triumphantly, how it could get into
town. Hilaire hears it all, and, looking up at
Bloggs’ housesays, "Ah, ha! Ha, ha! Rosbif,beer,
un chateau! Vive, la belle France I”
And one morning a fortnight after, a coffin was
carrie-1 out of Bloggs’ door. Hilaire was on the
other side of the street and heard the talk. The peo-
ple were saying that the doctors didn’t know well
what the sickness in Bloggs’ was. It differed
greatly from the other oases in town. The other
eases were sent to the sanatorium, as being sus-
pected small-pox, but the medical men found that
the colour of the tip of the great toe in the disease
in Bloggs’ was yellow, whereas, in the other cases,
it was brown. Therefore, it couldn't bo small pox
that had struck the house of Bloggs, and fflled tho
coffin. Hilaire puts the camphor to his nose and
mutters, “Ah, ha! Ha, ha! Rosbif, beer, Überte,
victoire. Bloggs est mort. Vive la veuve!”
The hearse rolled off, and Hilaire betook himsolf
to a barber to get trimmed. In the afternoon he
walked up to the house of mourning, muttering
to himself, “Vive la veuve! Vive la veuve! Ze
divide Honora will be my marine. Rosbif, beer,
liberte, victoire! Ah, ha! Ha, Ha!”
Ho knocked at the door.
A fat old man opened it.
It was Bloggs!
“Ciell”
“What?”
“ Madame!”
“ Buried this morning.”
“Le diablel”
“What?”
Next day’s Blue Nosb had a paragraph stating
that Mr. Hilaire de Saint Fou, whose dead body
had been found on the evening before under u
restaurant table, was of very high extraction,
being a member of a lamily that had contributed
Kings to the thrones of Europe. He was, the
paper added, one of its most valued employes, but
not the only one, of a similarly distinguished
ancestral roll.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Seen [?]
A Bush Vision.
It is Winter again, and the sm9ll of the night and
the look of the trees,
As the breeze
Stirs the brancheSj awaken within me a mem’ry
the years do not kill,
And whenever it rises I kneel, for before me the
river, the eyes,
And tho faces of terror 1 witness'd of old at the
fall of the hill
Group around like a frame, and within like a
picture, her dead body lies.
There was talk of the wonder long after. How
was it I, chained to my bed,
With my head
In the. swirl of a fover, could know she was
drowned ? I had sprung down the plain
To the edge of the river, they said, with my
shroud of a fever-dress blown
By the wind, and my lips crying “ Alice,” and
found her, and upwards again
To the bank had swum with her, and staring, had
called her dead body my own.
Radiant Alice! Her life with the lustre of woman-
hood rising was lit,
And, as flit
To and fro in the sunshine, tho birds with the
wings that make tlowerless trees
Look bedeckod by an artist, she moved, and the
air, as it tremblingly broke
To admit her lithe figure,grew supple and glowed
and the plain’s, like the sea’s
Open face when the clouds rift, or sky's when
the sun breaks, to brightness awoke.
She had spoken in bitterness to me. Ho, man, have
you felt how the speed
Of your steed
Will unconsciously quicken, with west wind in
front, and the leaves of the gum
“Hilaire walks close behind him; puts something into the pocket of the old man’s coat."
Underfoot, and the point of a spinifex blade
now and then, as you spring
And touch ground, pricking smartly? Sol west-
ward you go, and the hum
And the whirr and the are above, and you
reck not a womanish thing!
But you sometimes forget. Or, a thing that’s as
bad, with the heit underneath,
And the breath
Of the hors •' in your mstrils, you feel you are one,
and that he, as he jumps,
Is as full a 3 yourself of disdain for the risk of
the raco and the leap;
Swift along the Ldge of the chasm, right across the
hole girt with jagg’d stumps,
And around to the bank ot the river, and over
the Hood with a sweep!
It was thus that I thought. You can scarce call it
thinking at all, as you know;
For you go
By a kind of wild instinct at such times. So, on
by the ridge, with my face
Looking full in the west, and my hat dying back
and held on with a string,
I and Hector wont, length and length, length and
length, right enough, right enough, space
There to plant his hoofs, hold his hoofs, length
and length, right enough. Shi this last
spring!
I suppose you can guess I went under. The bank
of the river, they say,
Broke away;
It was rotten. It must have been. Ten nights
thereafter I opened my eyes,
It was just as if, some hours before, I had fall’n j
in a doze on the grast;
I sat up, looked around. But away, as if down in
my infancy, cries
Were raised to me, and faces looked at me,
though dimly as if through a glass.
And my head! But at that very instant the door
was moved gently apart,
And my heart
Leap’d with sudden remembrance and joy, for a
form and a face that I knew,
But tear-wet and white-garmented, Alice, a
Spirit, broke on me, the room, J
Filled with light, whirl’d around, there were ear-
fuls of musical callings, that flew
To the brain, and I stretched out my arms, and
up, like to a ghost from the tomb.
I arose and rushed to her, she shrinking and hold-
ing apart, and we two
For a few
Narrow seconds strove wildly, not touching in
body, but wrestling in mind,
Ito seize, sho to fly, and while forwards I presse d
she shrank backwards till air
Of the open, like wind arm’d with ioe, struck my
forehead, and leaving behind
The siok room, where the fever had chained me,
I followed with passionate pray’r.
Then the Vision of Alice spoke to me, and said*
with a sob, “ I have come
From my home,
From my home, O, my Lover, where ever, while
mornings awake and nights fall,
Until all the bright splendour of life has gone
from thee, alone, all alone,
I must wait for thy touch, from my home I have
come, O, my Lover, to oall
For thy pardon! I sinned by my words; may my
words, now, Sweet Lover, atone 1 ”
And I followed, and lit by the Spirit, I found her.
Around me were cries,
And the skies
Overhead, for I looked there, were bright with
white light, and among it the trees,
As it flowed to the earth like another, kept shak-
ing their branches, and keen,
As if born on an iceberg and nursed there, swept
through them the midwinter breeze,
But I held her, though dead and drown’d, held
her, my Alice, my Alice, my Queen!
It was just suoh a night as the present, O, Spirit of
Alice, my Love,
Up above,
Where, alone, all alone in thy home thou awaitest
my coming, behold,
Thou canst see that I see thee again as a picture,
and round-thee a frame
Made of turbulent waters, and cries, and white
light, and canst see that I fold
Thy dear body again in my arms, and kneel down
while I call on thy name!
J. O’B., Melbourne.
A Tale of the Borders.
Old Brown was a farmer, who came to Australia
To try to get rich, for at home ’twas a failure;
He planked down his money, and took up a block.
Built a hut, sunk a well, and went in to breed
stock.
Well, time rolled along, and friend Brown took a
wife,
From England she came out to share his bush life,
And, ere she had been in Australia a year,
Came a “ pledge of affection ” his fond heart to
cheer:
He was happy enough, in his own tin-pot way,
Had a little put by for a showery day,
And thought to bve long in this land of the free,
As gay and contented as mortal could be.
But at length came a day when his heart was made
sad,
For the prospect was gloomy, the outlook was
bad; ,
The borders were settled, the lines had been set,
He was in a fix such as he’d ne’er been in yet—
For his block, by admeasurement, turned out to
be
Right plump gu the coniines of colonies three:
Each one had its land laws, and Brown under-
stood
The division was n- io r the colonies’ good;
But he often re-noneed, as the years passed away:
“ I don’t think a pile of their laws, anyway.”
But the main of his trouble was right in his home,
For children, with marked regularity, come,
And each little image of sin, at its birth
Caused Brown most unseemly expressions of
mirth,
For he laughed when they told him the sex of
each child,
And muttered, and chuckled, and finally smiled;
With a hearty “ho, ho,” he would walk round and
say:
“ What colony’s this one belonging to, eh I
Is he Vic. or Queenslander, or claims him S.A.?
I guess, when they grow, there’ll be Satan to pay;
This border-line business has busted me up,
I think I shall try to find peace in the cup—
Not a child have I got, save the first one, who
knows
To what part of the country his birthplaoe he
owes.
However, it matters but little to me,
For the land is Australia from ocean to sea;
And I daresay they’ll settle on some sort of line—
If not, I don’t think it’s much business of mine.”
The time passed away, and the youngsters grew
up,
And the old man found mirth in the dregs of Life’s
cup,
For ofton he heard from the boys’ room at night—
“ You cussed ’crow-eater’ come out here and
fight,”
The cornstalk in whoso boyish heart was no grace
Would whip the gumsucker all over the place,
While the Queenslander oftentimes cut in, and
said
“ Who speaks ’gainst my country I’ll stand on his
head.”
And so it was, moruug and evening and night,
They’d tails of thair birth-placo, then go out and
light;
And the oil •v'' v. id look on, and odmkie, and
say
“If it war’a; Ici the border, ’twere aul; up
way.”
When tho oli mac grew feeble, and slow in hit
gait,
He sent forhu <torr ad said, “ boys, Federate—
The old man i? uwi u ad to see you at war,
For, after all, ctTddrO - Australians you are.
So sink ail the trcncF and ioin hand in hand
For thi great com oa weal of your beautiful
laud:
’T was fun in yo qr )mg days to quarrel and fight,
You’re growina to boys, now, the thing isn’t
right;
United you’ll stand,. ds, divi: 1 you’ll fall,
For the weakest mli ver be pushed to the wall;
That’s all, boys,»t -,-iink over what I have said,”
A gasp, and a sob, arid the old man was dead.
Disgraced.
“ Ah, now, comfort thee, woman, with eyes in
tears, and grey locks streaming down,
It was better thy son should have lived to see thy
hearth in his native town;
It is better than if, in the lands of the South,
where these thirty years have passed,
He had fallen a victim to death, and lay where
the bones of strangers are cast;
Ab, now, comfort thee, woman, he’ll be at peace
in the village graveyard’s breast,
Where his father and brothers lie to-night, and
his sisters are at rest! ”
“ Alas, comforted I cannot be, for the speech he
spoke to me ere he died
Bings aloud in my ears, rings aloud in my ears,
like au ever-returning tide.”
“ But your son made a name and a fame in the
South, and is still remembered there,
For he climbed to the highest storey of things,
up the spiral colonial stair;
And about him, as if the clouds had been gold,
and virtue had rifted them through,
Fell the glittering rain that gave him the power
to do what he liked to do;
Ah, now, comfort thee, woman, ’tis better he
came home to his village to die,
And to lie where the bones of his father lie, and
where your bones soon will lie! ”
‘ Alas, comforted I cannot be, for the speech he
spoke to me ore he died
Rings aloud in my ears, rings aloud in my ears,
like au over-rot urning tide.”
“ Well, the speech that he spoke, why, woman of
dreams, what thing did he say or avow,
That you scruple to give to his bones a spot in
the village graveyard now ?
When a mother scruples to let the bones of her
son rest in the tomb
Where his father’s lie, where her own will lie,
• there is something dark as doom
In the work of his life. Now he told it t® you.
Do say what his crime has been—
Did he say that the thing unsaid was said, or the
thing unseen was seen ? ”
“ Ah, he called himself by a name that makes me
tremble and bow my head.”
“ Do, then, tell us tho name.” “No I will not tell.
But oh, it was something dread;
For he muttered, while death was in his throat,
that in Ills Australian home
By the same fell name a: the rascals were
known ' “ But, woman, dnteU up. come."
“ No, I will 'it. ,: “ Come, now, ao ten us, mother.”
“ Then will you promise, like me,
To conceal it and sorrow for ever ? ” “We will,"
"Well, hediedaC.M.G!”
There was wailing a while, and then they took
the great colonial round,
And they buried his body behind a hedge i a a
piece of barren ground.


im*
S^sjCT
Eczema on Face & Scalp
k POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
itneurn. Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff', Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Direases
of the Skin and Scalp, with ioss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enoemia, Pymmia,Lcucorrhoea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and mobt Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
ave cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri
fler, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Irnouritic s and Poisonou®
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cutlcura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external uue), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp cf Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh 1
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cutlcura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura,
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o -easy Skin.
Cutlcura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and «6kin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemirts and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 35 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.S.A.
Palace !£=Eot;@l,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDN^
THE Pronrietor of tbe above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
nrenared to carry on the business of a FIPsT-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for country
Visitors 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
m
=====
&
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
AMEEICAIT
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
IST ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKOP NEW SOUTH WALES.
Compagnoni Catering Company (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c„ Stc.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations.
The DINING and KEERESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-stairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND isMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
E. D. TOLLEMA.CHE, Licensee and General Manager,
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
m
mRmRm
re
IKSOTeiGopUFEi
i3ST *. '^'/Ay v ; >
■[lie only infallible remedy for
//er/oi/sJiebiLijy?
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other ex-
haustive derangemont of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In casesat 125., or four quantities is onelor
385.; if by coach. 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and » 0., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from (Jeorge-atreet South.
KIBBY AND CO.,
96 King-street.
Min’: Mercers, at.
Ktbby’s Shirts at 4s. 6d„ seldom equalled ! Never
excelled in Fit, quality or finish.
Underwear lor Winter, large variety, lowest
prices.
Neckwear, new and stylish shapes.
Collars, Cults, Nightshirts, Handkerchiefs, &e.
KIBBY Sl CO.j 90 King-street.
SENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders. Chronic
Disease, Impediments to Marriage, &c. How
to choose a partner lor life, so as to live happy;
How to regain and preserve your health, &c.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the peculiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT:
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
UNEQUALLED SAFETY. CS" EXTREME SIMPLICITY. iW" GREAT ECON3MY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
REDFERN
(LIMITED),
WORKS, SYDNEY.
SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. &T SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Repeat-street, Redfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.


SCHENK AND CO.
“ With twenty mortal murders on their crowns
The same sort of paroxysm of horror as
thrilled London in 1805, when the Haokney mon-
ster was tried ; and again in 1829, when Priest
Reinbauer’s crimes were revealed : or Sydney,
when, some twelve years ago, the Nichols and
Lester murders were discovered, recently shocked
the Austrian capital (though to a far greater ex-
tent) when the trial of Hugo Schenk and his con-
federates brought to light a series of horrible
deeds unparalleled in the history of crime. The
lines upon which these horrid acts were planned
bear in some respects a striking resemblance to
those on which the Hen and Chickens Bay murder
was worked; for that reason, as well as to acquaint
our readers with the salient points of the most
celebrated criminal trial of recent days, we lay
before them a synopsis of its revelations, append-
ing thereto authentic likenesses of the chief actors
and victims, together with views of some of the
localities of thc-heliish drama. The head and front
of the murderous band was Hugo Sohenk, son of
HUGO SCHENK.
an official in the Austrian Law Courts, a Moravian
by birth, aged a 5, and of such prepossessing ap-
pearance and fascinating manners as to be a per-
fect masher (readers of criminal history will re-
member that Mr. Williams alias MHrphy, of
Batcliffe Highway fame, was likewise distinguished
by his refined, smooth, and insinuating manners).
At the military school which he attended from
1868 to 1866, Hugo bore the character of a cruel
little devil, who took a delight in the torture cf
animals. His correspondence with his viotims
proves him to be a man of some intellectual at-
tainments. He occasionally dropped into poetry,
and some of his verses are much above the usual
standard of amatory puppy-rel. He first got into
trouble in 1871, when he was sent up for five years’
hard labour on a charge of false pretences in the
matrimonial advertisement line, an aggravation of
the offence being deemed the fact that he had
assumed the title and costume of Prince Wielo-
powski. These five years were commuted to two.
In 1879 he married. He then alleged that he was
manager of a paper-mill. This billet, if he ever
held it, he gave up in 1880, when he opened a coal
depot at Prague. In a little while he got sick of
this, and left for Vienna, telling his wife he was
going to look for something more suitable. He
then started again the matrimonial advertising
game, his first effort therein being unsuccessful.
He had advertised for a wife, representing himself
as a public officer with 1800 florins (£9O) fixed in-
come, and had caught one Theresa Berger, out of
whom he swindled her hard-earned savings; but
he was nabbed, and had to do two more “stretch.”
It was then his real wife discovered his true
character and mode of life. Only once did she see
him again; that was after his discharge from gaol,
when she gave him 300 florins—her earnings as a
governess in the family of a Prague hop-dealer—
for a fresh start. They corresponded, however, up
to his arrest in January, 1884, and, poor fool, she
loves the miscreant’s memory still! In his matri-
monial negotiations, Schenk dubbed himself, ac-
cording to fancy, “ Dr. Joseph Schenk,” “ Hermann
Siegel,” “ Marquis do Sene,” &c. During the cam-
paign in Bosnia he passed himself off as the Marquis
de Sene, spont money lavishly, and was considered
the best marksman in the camp. Challenged by an
Austrian officer for cheating at cards, he cleared
out, leaving a note behind in which he said it
would have been an easy matter for so crack a
shot as he was to kill his adversary, but that, being
engaged upon a higher mission, his life belonged
to a Higher Being. It was during his trial for the
Berger fraud that Hugo Schenk made the ac-
quaiitanceof Karl Schlossarek, then up for a
KARL SCHLOSSAREK.
larceny for which he got 18 months. In prison they
struck up a palship, and formulated plans for
their future partnership in the “butcher” biz.
Schlossarek 126 years of age at the time of his trial)
was a repulsive-looking scoundrel; a locksmith by
trade. He had been in the army, but his military
last wolfish trio is
a are ochenk (Hugo s brother), a messenger in the
[?] [?]ENK.
Austrian liailway Department, highly consumn-
tiye, and completely under his brother's thumb.
Both Karl Schenk and Karl Schlossarek were
married. Through one of his matrimonial adver-
tisements, Hugo Schenk became acquainted with
Bmilie Hoecbsmann, his mistress. On their second
interview, Hugo wanted to take liberties, Emilie
him n a«i? eG K aad left her, threatening to poison
himself. A few days afterwards she received a
letter, signed Dr. Joseph Schenk,” stating that
the writer s brother had taken poison, and had
been at the point of death, but was getting round
and besought an interview. Emilio consented to
see him. By representing he had been appointed
engineer in the Arlberg Tunnel Works, he suc-
ceeded in seducing htr. She pressed him to ma-rv
her, but he pretended he was a Nihilist; that he
was Prince Wielopowski; that he would be de-
livered up to the police if he gave his real name at
the marriage; and that he would never marry her
under an assumed one. He told her he expected
money from a rich uncle who was in America, and
obtained from her some 200 Worms for a trip to
London, where, he said, 5000 dollars had been
placed to his credit by his relative. After his re-
turn from an alleged visit to London, he handed
her back the 200 florins, and besides gave her a
£°° d “oney iprobably proceeds of the
Josephine Timal affair); but
he said that he had not been able to get the 5000
dollars, as he could not prove his identity with
Prince Wielopowski to the banker's satisfaction.
Hugo and Emilie travelled together to Zurich,
where they asserted they got married. For Emilie,
EMILIE [?]MANN.
Schenk seems to have had a sincere attachment-
he not only checked his lust for blond so far as
not to attempt her life, but regularly supported
her up to the day of his arrest. The first .ioint at-
tempt of Hugo Schenk and Schlossarek, owing to
the former’s cowardice, was a failure. A working
miller by the name of Podpera, advertise 1 that ho
was looking for a situation as a salesman, and
could give security. Schenk and Schlossarek at
once communicated with him, offering him a
billet in the provinces, with 50 florins a month and
found, provided he could give 500 florins security
It was arranged to meet at the Northern
Railway Station. Schlossarek and Podpera travel-
led together in the same railway carriage, Schenk
going in another compartment. Upon alighting
they had to pass through a lonely wood. Scmenck
followed, unknown to Podpera. Suddenly the
latter felt a cold touch on the back of his neck
Turning round he saw a revolver in his com-
panion’s hand. He seized the wretch’s wrist, and
the shot missed its aim. In the life and death
struggle that then ensued. Podpera, though twice
shot, came off best, Schlossarek running away
streaming with blood. Schenk, who must have
been close at hand, never mustered enough courage
to assist his mate. He joined him, however, in his
retreat; and they got away safe to Vienna, where
Schenk extracted the bullet from Schlossarek’s
wound, both being afraid lest a surgeon should
give them away. This fiasco had come off on the
3rd of April. 1883. On the lfith of the same month
they took to the field again. To an advertisement
tor a town traveller who could give good security
Franz Bauer, a coachman out of employment, made
answer. He was promised the billet, if he suited
the principal who Jived in a suburban villa. He
was instructed to be at the failway station at a
certain time with the necessary security, etc
Schenk supplied Schlossarek with two bottles of
brandy—one doctored, the other square; and, for
emergency, a phial containing prussic; acid. Bauer
and Schlossarek started together l'or Weidlingau
Schonck following them clandestinely. Scbios-
sarek treated Bauer and those in the same carriage
with them to the square grog, which was pro-
nounced Al. On arriving at Weidlingau the way
lay through a copse. As they wended along.
Schlossarek proposed a nip. Bauer didn’t mind
This time it was the doctored brandy that was
used. Bauer drank, and fell unconscious. The
pair took 170 florins from his pocket-book, leaving
however, in their haste, behind them about the
same amount in another compartment of the book
Bauer regained consciousness, dragged himself
home, and informed the police, who failed to get
the perpetrators of the crime. “ This don’t pav
expenses,” was Schenk’s remark to Schlossarek as
they discussed the affair; they, therefore, deter-
mined to confine themselves exclusively to work-
ing the “ matrimonial ” oracle. Their first victim
was Josephine Timai,. In May, 1883, Hugo Schenk,
under the alias of Hermann Siegel, made the
acquaintance of this woman, then a housemaid
He persuaded her to quit her employer. Her trunks"
were brought to the house of Karl Schenk. Hugo
and Schlossarek (the latter acting as the former’s
servant), having made sure that Josephine had
about 500 florins, enticed her to Weisskirchen in
*h re^thc^ . h^ d Previously selected a
pond called the Gevatterloch (Godfatbor’s-hole) as
the grave of their victim. So confiding was the
Pe,°r kirl that she gave her Savings’ Bank book for
~ob florins and a gold watch into Hugo Schenk’s i
keeping during the trip. When near the fatal
spot, they persuaded her to drink some wine.
JOSEPHINE TIMAL.
She drank and became unconscious. Schlossarek
tied a st one to the body, and then the two heaved
the dreary burden into the Gevatterloch, where it
was found some weeks afterwards. The band’s next
m ? rk . was Katharina Timal, Josephine’s aunt
of h< eoin ed a sh« U k™ eiS (^°^P mia) and was possessed
§T. e kn ® w of the proposed union of
ffjjenk her m. ece < a nd the murderers, fearing
she might raise the "hue and cry” upon the dis-
appearance of her relative, and hoping to get her
SSESfc resolved upon .putting her away. Hugo
Schenk sent her an invitation to come to Vienna
He had married Josephine atCracovia, hesaid° and
had come to Vienna to take possession of a dro
perty at Pochlam, near the city, which he bacMust
come into by inheritance, offering her the man
agement of it upon advantageous terms. Katharina
came. On her arrival, Schlossarek went with Karl
Schenk to Pochlam the same afternoon. Katha-
rina and Hugo followed in the evening train •, he
“ 6t < i n the r T oad betwe en Pochlam and
Krummnussbaum. It was midnight. Upon a
8 ? Da i trom Hugo, his brother and Schlossarek
seized Katharina, threw her down,, holding her
hands and f<#et, while Hugo cut her throat to the
EATHAHINA TEMAL.
backbone. The corpse, weighted with a stone, was
thrown into the Danube. By this affair the three
netted 1200 florins, of which Karl Schenk only got
ICO florins. Between the two murders just related
Hugo and Schlossarek had sought to keep their
hands in with the robbery of the Pochlam and
Ardstetten postmaD. To make this “job ” worth
their while, they addressed fictitious parcels
through the Vienna Post-office to Ardstetten, upon
which considerable amounts were insured as “ con-
tents.” Had their exploit succeeded, the postal
authorities would have had to pay the amounts to
the senders. Luckily for the messenger, he hap-
pened to be accompanied on his lonely route by a
peasant. Disconcerted, the scoundrels proposed to
fob the Post-office at Ardstetten the same night
while the parcels were deposited there, but, upon
reconnoitring, they found that the locality would
not admit of it, and they had to give it best. The
proceeds of the murder of Katharina Timal were
hardly used up when Hugo Schenk conceived a
new venture. This time he resolved upon play-
ing a “lone hand.” The victim in view w«s
Theresa Ketterl, cook in Baron Baumann’s
service. After the usual introductory steps,
Hugo proposed a trip to the Reisalpe. The-
resas master was away with his family on a
summer tour, so the proposal just suited her.
THERESA KETTERL.
As the Baron’s house would be left unguarded,
she resolved to take her valuables with her. This
suited Hugo. They set out August 4th. Theresa
taking with her a trunk containing inter alia
jewellery, bonds, and Savings’ Bank book. On
August sth they started a-foot from St. Pociten to
Lilienfeld across the Rebalpe. i hat he murdered
her at the Sternbeiten chasm there cannot be a
doubt, though her body has not yet been dis-
covered. He said in his confession that she acci-
dentally shot herself with his revolver. The haul
he made this time was a tidy one—ll 77 florins, her
savings, and 1400 florins' worth of bonds. Some of
the jewellery he gave his Etnilie, with whom after
the murder, he made a pleasure trip to Stettin.
Some of the money he gave to a brother of
Emilies, who started a florist’s shop with it.
binding on his return to Vienna that the missing
woman s jewellery was accurately described in
police advertisements, he took what he had given
Emilie away from her, and got the stones re-set.
He explained to her that the Nihilists knew he
naa the jewellery, and that thev might recog-
nise it on her. Whether Emilie tumbled or
not to tho truth is (some say! an open ques-
tion. Once Hugo asked her: “ Who do you
take me for?” “To tell the truth,” she re-
plied, ‘fora Rosa Sandor” (a celebrated Hun-
garian robber). In October, 1883, Hugo Schenk
got acquainted with Josephine Eder, chamhe.
maid in service near Vienna. He got her so com
JOSEPHINE EDER.
pletely under his thumb that she robbed her mu
tress of some 300 florins’ worth of jewellervi«
procure him means to start a factory, on the ODen
ing of which he was to marry her. Luckilv fnr
her, she was arrested for the theft and got thre»
years. The assassination of Rosa Ferenczy mm!
off on the 29th December, 1883. Hugo had had «
Vaison with Rosa for some time previously hut
her taking-off had been postponed till a duplicate
of her Savings’ Bank book, which she had lost had
been sent to her. He had arranged that their
marriage should come off at Presburg. Rosa a
rather homely person, didn’t mind where it mm«
off so long as it actually did. It may be here ™
marked that Hugo preferred for victims elderlv
spinsters of unprepossessing appearance. Thev
had more money saved and greater dread of never
getting married than younger and prettier girls
ROSA FERENCZY.
It was with reference to this philosophical prin-
fHPle of selection that he remarked when arrested.
What do people want? They ought to be
grateful to me for ridding the world of such
a crowd of old maids.” This, by the way. From
Fresburg the victim and her murderers walked
to wolfsthal. On their return in the gloam-
ing, Rosa was struck down with a hoe and
chucked into the Danube. The profits on this job
were 387 florins. Karl Schenk, who wasn’t in it as
a . Pripcipa!. received Rosa’s box of clothes. Be-
sides the affairs already related, Hugo Schenk had
on his conscience other dark deeds done in Hun-
gary, Styria, &c. For instance, a woman’s body was
found in 1879, in the Payerbach Creek near Vienna,
with marks on it of most foul murder. It has
been proved that at that time Hugo Schenk had
ft Prague for Vienna. The body was never
identified. It is also proved that Magdalena Wirm-
ner, a girl with whom he was intimate, disap-
peared suddenly, and never turned up. It is also
a fact that he had enticed a young man named
bkala, under the “ security ” dodge, to ride with
him, and an accomplice named Zacherl (since
dead) to Trebitsch. They halted at a lonely spot
tor a spell. Skala fell asleep, but awoke suddenly,
and saw one of the two handling a revolver. Al-
though he got off with his life, the two robbers
succeeded in getting 70fiorins from him. (Amongst
the papers found with Schenk, there were letters
from eight different girls, with whom he corres-
ponded “ with a view to matrimony.”) The atten-
tion of the police was first directed to Hugo by the
disappearance of the Timal woman. Amongst the
papers found in Josephine Timal’s room were Mr.
Schenk s letters to her, his dear betrothed. These
gave tho first clue. They then set watch for him.
On January 10th, 1884, in the wee sma’ hours, he
was seen, by detectives, to enter Schlossarek’s
house. Knowing he was armed, the police gave
him time to undress and get to bed. They then
forced an entry and arrested both scoundrels.
Karl Schenk was secured two hours later. In
prison, Hugo asked for pen and paper to write bis
memoirs. The request was granted, but subse-
cancelled, lest he should take advantage
of it to correspond with outside. The world bas,
therefore, lost a thrilling record of
“Lonely folks cut off unseen.
And hid in sudden graves;
Of horrid stabs in groves forlorn
And murders done in caves.” *
He attempted to get a note smuggled to his Emilie,
praying her for some poison wherewith to cheat
the gallows. It may here be mentioned that at the
trial, after Emilie had given her evidence, she
sought to go near the prisoner to press his hand,
but was prevented lest she might pass poison to
him. V ben his lawful wife heard of his arresi,
and the circumstances connected with it, sbe
handed the police a gold necklace he had sent her
from Linz—which, notwithstanding the fact that
he was a damned villain, was mean on her part. The
trial of the three commenced March 13th, 1884,
before the Aosnahme-Gerioht. (Exceptional Courc
—trial by jury being suspended in Vienna). Von
Pelser prosecuted for the Crown; while Swoboda,
Lichtenstein, and Steger appeared for Hugo,
Schlossarek and Karl Schenk, respectively.
*■chlossarek gazes wildly around him. Hugo, care-
fully got up to kill, his fair moustache and whis-
kers done to a turn, looks about him smilingly,
taking stock of the public with bold, cynical
glance. Karl Schenk stands listless, a very picture
of despair. Schlossarek owns up to his share of
the bloody deeds laid to iheir charge. Hugo seeks
to show that it is Schlossarek wbo is the blood-
guiltiest. rchlossarek's statements, corroborated
by the evidence, are accepted by the Court and
the generai public. Karl Schenk denies com-
plicity in the plot, and declares that his participa-
tion in the deeds was under his brother’s aire
compulsion. Moreover, he pleads his poor pay as
an excuse for taking a share of the booty. His
counsel vainly urges that he was not a free agent,
and that his brother held over this shadow of a
man, broken down in body and mind, a sort of
demoniac sway. Tho counsel for the other two
prisoners have, in reality, nothing to urge.
‘Guilty of Murder” is the verdict on ail three.
They are then sentenced to be hanged; to make
reparation in money of the amounts of their rob-
beries; and to pay the costs of their trial. They
are to be executed in the following order- 1, Karl
Schenk ; 2, Schlossarek ; 3, Hugo Schenk- The
Court specially holds, in regard to Karl Schenk,
that as it was proved he participated in locating
the places of the crimes, and that he “ held the
hands of Josephine Timal while Hugo Schenk was
cutting her throat, he was equally guilty with the
(Continued on page 33.)


THE
IGNO
HWV'.'-
I’lllirli”' I ''
THE
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Lbomsed Case, or Gold Engraved.
the
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydnev
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY I
PERFECTION OF TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF I
THE
X=X^.^T©
NIGHOLSON AND GO.,
325 George-street
THE FIRST H 0^ J SE FOR PIANOS
MOULTON’S PAIN PAIN
CURES ALL PAIN.
tf np e . A kno ! v ' n remedy for RHEUMATISM
■»-_URAL6IA s HEADACHE, TOOTHAC fp
Rains, bruises, hurns. scalp 3, 4° an
»Ken internally cures DIARRHOEA,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other sterns ache
*na pains,
Price, 2/ - Sold Everywhere
C. E. MOULTON, sole PROPriroR.
MELBOURNE AND o .DNEY,
. 7
TONIC NERVINE
A...„ „ REGISTERED.
BAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for N.,r-
Tone and General Debility, and all complaints
fr £ m lack of “ervefcrce. aa Nouffi
iiSr'lSP* 1 ®!, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
P?'j a c P la 'nta, General Prostration, &e. By its tonic
'or d e n 6C - t / !t onee removes all craving
V richness in phosphorous and
TONlCSelements, MARSHALL’S
tho Ik NERVINE nourishes and Rives vigour to
■ w hole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 25s a case
BROTHERS I ’*!?',- a 8 '!? MARSHALL
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes:
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable tome, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing I could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and I always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Va., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
, J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17, 1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta , Qa., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected tho costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
Whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dp. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass,
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
ilitic taint,
by its use.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
may be made healthy and strong
Sold by all Druggists; §l, six bottles for $6.
BLLIOTT BROS., 8. HOPFNCTNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
ROWLANDS ODONTO is the best, nur-
e?t,and most fragrant preparation for the teeth
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washes
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and P white
as a pure and non-gritty tooth powder; such Row!
bas always proved itself to be
ROWLANDS’ EUXONIA is a beautifully
P pr f' l ellcatc > fragrant toilet powder, and has
lately been much improved. Each box has inside
Ph D d FP s l Cat liS P u t r i ty fr ° m Dr - Redwood,
Ld cream ’ ° W m thrGe tIDS : white - r( se -
MACASSAR OIL can now
bea lso had in a golden colour, which is especialiv
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes. per
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations . om
P^SB°i!Hand a Co. K s e ydney gent8 ’ ELLIOTT BkOS " E -
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
9
A H £
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
Teeth painlessly extracted by Lautrhintr r,«s
either Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform. ’
jEAFNESS !—Descriptive pamphlets of th«
rr — positively infallible remedies prescribed hv
those eminent aurists, the Senior Surireons bf+h«
TWO London Royal Ear InlirmaHe B “iorward e d ton
receipt of stamps tor reply) by T li H»nn»fnW?
Auckland, New Zealand. * y • Hannaford,
D 1
W
Ulhce.
4?TE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
fates tor oale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
BLEND
JMAR&)
TRADE
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
uiuing fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
tST 308 GEORGE STREET.
Sg
vjtfb. Jljp lots
n ''^fSRATEff-
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
Of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
tr MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALT,,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect lit
f?uatantecd.
X
m
/iIW
HOT WATER BATHS
HAIR DRtSSINQ&WIGMAKING ESTABLISHMENT
137, 139 & I4jl OXFORD S T . x
MAL F HOC /DA Y FI'S/? Y T/YUF! SOA Y
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyno.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnsss, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
' Cental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS!.
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents and those newlv
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering bv
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESSNTATIONPLiLTE^
a
&
$
$
cd
|*~v CD
£
o
o
Co
C£s
(A
W
u>
3
O
E-
«*?
<k>
\
sc.
a.
as
tTi
<35
K
&
r
o
is
o
ft
~zr
O
i
SI
(u
v
%
*
KtV,
O
(6
G)
CRESTS^COATS^OF^ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
ISoXiLq*Tolo 2BuLg^gpi©3 1
_ ______ _ PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED articles only kept in stock.
FLEMIITGr, Merchant & Importer,
AA & Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of *
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS
.Hydrants, Skip and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLCSH-OUT,” " “ TAOBOM - WATER-WASTE
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent A,r Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cow/s, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACGORO WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Pgpce, Sydney*
FulJ particulars snd price on applieatiou. ~


Williams’ Yeast .Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Skinny Men —“Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia
Impotence, Debility Moses. Most & Co., Sydney,
General Agents,
READ IT A LI..
It may Save yeur Life.
hop bitters
ABB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, Handrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
‘ Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘ irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘ these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘without intoxicating.”
“No matter what your feelings or
‘ symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘ dreds have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or lot your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘ drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.,
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S.
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1871
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,0 X)
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John Bay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggio, Esq.
Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq l
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector AlleD.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambonp.
Go3ford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 153 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
hr Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
DE
COMFORTABLE TEETH
Tu<_ hoc ut tbis valuable mouth wash insures
mtire freedom from toothache and decay of the
■ceth. There are three kinds, distinguished by a
fellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
die bottles. Tnat with the Fellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
lrops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never suffer again, but will pre-
terve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Red is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each Label bears the name, “ Wilcox and
On.. 339 Oxford-street, London.”
DE
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Shortness of Breath. Persons who suffer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, And
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co., 239 Oxford-street. London.”
other?.” Hugo Schenk listened to the sentence
without moving a muscle. Schlonsarek looKe
broken down, and liis brutal face became deadly
pale. Karl Schenk was quiet, but the red spots
upon his cheeks showed out moro than ever.
Karl Schenk’s sentence was commuted by tne
Emperor to life imprisonment: but the otner two
were executed April 23nd, 1884. At o a.rri . on _
date, a Mass was said for their souls in the prison
chapel, when the two men met for the first tune
since their trial. Neither noticed the presence of
the other. Each received the sacrament. (Like
Mr. Burke, of Burke and Hare f ame, trouble had
brought them back to religion.) Schenk woum
not touch the breakfast provided, beyond nibbling
a corner oil a roll. Schlossarek made a hearty
meah Since daybreak he had been anxiously
waiting a visit from his wife and sister. They
not come. Six o’clock: a cool Spring
No life in the streets, save in front of the grey
Landgerichts Building, within whose precincts the
two are about to expiate their deeds. A quarter
to seven: Monsieur de Vienna and his aids (one a
son and one a nephew) arrive. The court-yard ot
the prison forms a triangle. In its acute angle the
gallows (or blocks) are erected—two posts each 6ft.
9in high by 10ft. diameter. Into the upper surface
a spike Jin. thick and lft. long is driven, the head
of the nail being in the form of a hook .ike a P.
Against both posts there leans a small ladder of
throe steps. The posts are about lwft. apart.
A double file of gem-d'armea separates the
gallows and the officials from the public. There
arc about two hundred people present: no
ladies—mostly gentlemen of the best Vienna
society: amongst others, Prince Solms, Baron
Twickeil, several actors. Colonel Primrose (our
own Kosebery’s kinsman), British military attache,
and others —the M’Fuzees, Lieutenant. Tregooses,
and Sir Carnaby Jenkses of the Austrian Blueses.
Primrose sketches the scene. Seven of the clock,
and there enters the “Commission of Justification,
the executive officials ot the court, the priest, and
Schlossarek, who holds in his hand a bunch of may-
liowors and roses, which his wife had sent him, and
who seems calm. When trussed, the doomed man
called out “ Forgive me, loving Christians
“Courage, my son,” says the priest. Just as the
noose is round his neck, the poor wretch sings out,
“ Is there nono among you who curses me t Lie
in peace,” responds the priest. Then, just as he
has shouted out, “ Lord, pardon my frightful sinsu
I am cursed on earth! Lord, protect my wife!
Schlossarek is turned off into kingdom-come. Two
minutes elapse, and then Hugo Schenk appears
beneath the gallows. As he enters the yard, be
does not notice Schiossirek’s body: but as he is
being pinioned, his snasey eye catches a glimpse
of the corpse—he makes no sign, however. He us
perfectly collected. “Pray, greet my wife, he
begs of the priest, who nods assent. So, arrived at
the nubbling chit, arfd tucked up so neat and so
pretty, the ruinbler jugged off from his feet, and he
died with his face to the city-his shrieking spirit
flitting along with Schiossirek’s to tbo internal
shades, whither, surely, never journeyed blacker,
fouler ghosts to fright the departed, and make
even
“The damned themselves start wide and shun
those twain „ , .. „
As far more black and more forlorn than they.
The Queanbevan Gale is risiug fast to
storm-pitch—the raison il etrc being the infernal
impudence of the men of Bungendore, who sug-
gest that “the Court of Quarter Sessions, District
Court, Land Office, District Registry Office, public
gaol, head-quarters of police, &o. Sic. &c., should
be removed to the thriving town of Bungendore,
to which Qucanbeyan should play second fiddle,
and that Bungendore be proclaimed the capital of
the district.” Gale plainly tells these frogs of
Bungendore, who would fain puff themselves out
to the full-blown dimensions of Queanbeyan oxen,
that it would be almost as en&y to transf- r the
capital of England from London to Liverpool or
Bristol ‘as to transfer the capital of this police
district from Queanbeyan to Bungendore. 1 here,
new! For all that, Bungendore means to try—
hence, as can easily be understood, there is Woore
to the knife betwixt the villages.
The Melbourne Herald recounted an al-
most unparalleled case of meanness the other day.
It occurred in this way. Professor Sample s agent,
Mr. Cunningham, lost a pocket-book containing
documents and £ll in notes, ot which one was an
Oriental. After advertising his loss, Mr. Cunning-
ham got back his pocket-book and documents by
post, but the conscience of the sender didn’t run
to the notes. That ten of the notes should have
beeD retained for incidental expenses was not so
very surprising considering the debased times in
which we live, but it's disgusting to think that, as
the Herald remarks, “the mean Under or thief
even kept the Oriental note.” Now, surely the
depths of meanness can no further go than thts.
The only supposition upon which we can account,
for this deed of the black-hearted miscreant is that
he has decided to put the "Oriental” safely be-
tween ihe leaves of his family bible until the
liquidation is completed or else to take a price
right out from some speculative Aaron. But
there’s no telliDg what these despicable creatures
will do.
Cheer up, poor husband! At the end of
many years the Eist grows red with cemlort.
Sitting on the doorstep after midnight it must
often have occurred to you. while your head was
chokeful of wile, that a day would come when her
red lips would be sealed and her supple musical
tongue go silent lor ever. At such times the
haudkerchief was in great request, and vou need
not tell us how moist it grew with your tears. Not
because the redness fled and the music erased.
No, no; but because this sealing of the lips and
this—yes, this sdence— denoted that wifey must, be
put into a hearse and cirried to the grave. Now
you needn’t do any s»ch thing with her. She will
be silent and you can have he- still. Brown, the
monumental mason of Carlton (Vic.), has invented
a way of helping you His plans are in the patent
office now, but t-trs is how you arc to go t,n work:
You get your wile in a coffin. There may be a
little difficulty in getting her in, but Brown starts
with her in. Now, there is a glass lid on this coffin,
and it is screwed down tight. Now you attach ip
valve to the head and another to the footol the
coffin. Next yoii put a flexible tube in»o each
valve. Then vou lire up the end of eaca pipe
Through one tube the air enters and is dried;
whil 3 through the other the foul air escapes and is
burned. Now, Brown says you can get up off the
stops and come in and sit down alongside wifpy
and enjoy yourself. A great man is Brown, and he
seems to have spent long hours meditating how to
make husbands happy.
According to Truth, the inhabitants of
Berlin are preparing a petition to Government,
with the hope of nutting acurb on the pianc-play-
ing nuisance. “The plan is to obtain a decree
stating the hours during which the pianists will be
forbidden to annoy their neighbours.” Even such
a music-loving ppople as the Germans, you see,
are getting full up against "early practice” and
tive-tinger exercises before cock-crow, and we can
understand their teeiings. having once lodged
with a musical family. If the Berliners only suc-
ceed in their good work, wo may, in the fulness of
time, expect, a Bill lor the Suppression of Unsea-
sonable Music in Sydney, and then ; but, ob!
band us the lyre—
Inhabitants of Berlin,
The thought of this decree
Set« every hair a-curling,
And (ills our hearts with glee.
“ Heaven’s blessings on your labours!”
Must surely be the cry
Of all who have for neighbours
Folks fond of harmony.
Inhabitants of Berlin,
All men who love their rest
See merit, sound and sterling,
In what you now suggest:
And if your brave endeavour
This strumming to restrain
Succeeds,- oh! then, lor ever,
Vour debtors we’ll remain.
Herbert Spencer has been writing a trea-
tise to prove that the tendency of modern Liberal
.eglslation in England is to interfere with the
liberty of the subject, and, ultimately, to reduce
the people to the condition of slaves. And Her-
bert isn’t so far wrong, either. There is now a Bill
before the English Parliament the very thought ot
which makes one’s blood run icy cold. It s a BUI
to compel young men to insure their lives. Well,
if that becomes law, we shall just feel for the
young man of England. There’ll be no escape;
the irrepressible agent will give him the alterna-
tive between a warrant or a “ proposal, and if he
doesn’t sign the latter himself, the former will be
This illustration shows aguave jacket with lace sleeves and waistcoat. The fronts are
finished with a rich frilling of lace, and under the long lace waistcoat is a loose rib-
bon knot.
signed for him. When the Act has been working
for a month or two, though, there won’t he so
very many young men left to insure—the agents
will kill all but the hardiest. Now, it’s one of the
advantages of living in Australia that a young
man can always kill an insurance agent with tbe
certainty that no jury would convict. Tbe bones
of scores of ’em are whitening on our office floor.
Despots in the East (wrote one who knew
his way about) put out the eyes of men whose
rivalry they dread. The bigot party in the churches
would hold all those who dissent from them in
darkness. A prince in the Orient deprives people
obnoxious to him of a sense; British clerics would
Two pretty costumes for little girls are given above. The freek with blouse is com-
posed of ruby cashmere—the cuffs and waiatband of plush of the same colour. A
band of the same material also edges the underskirt. The second is made entirely
of velvet pleated from the neck to the edge of the skirt. A narrow ribbon is tied
loosely below the waist, and broad eollcr and cuffs of rich Roman embroidery com-
plete the costume.
deny the objects of their jealousy instruction in
the best uses of tbeir reasoning faculties. Make a
satrap in the East of a Bishop U.. and he puts out
the eyes of foUs unpleasant to him with a red-hot
iron; metamorphose the satrap into a prominent
cleric, clothe him in saciel black, and enfold his
neck with a white choker, and instead of poking
an iron into people’s eyes he is content, with re-
fusing them the lights for the right guidance and
improvement ot their powers of perception and
reflection. In the costume of the Epi°copal
Church, types of remarkable directness and signi-
ficance may be conceived, when it is in one of its
paroxysms of jealous rage; and one of not the
least curious is that the heads of dignitaries in
that “body” (it is only a “body in N.S.W.) are
crowned with the shovel-hat, whose application
seems to be to heap coals on tires which burn, noi
to illumine, but to inilame, to exasperate, and
generally to mike it hot for those who refuse to
be led by the nose by the holy men who sport
them.
The Congregationalists of Victoria believe
there is still money in the market, and, with
religious ardour, they have girt up their loins and
sallied forth with lamps in their hands to collar it.
They’re notgoiDgtobe satisfied with thousands;
it is tens of thousands they are after. In fact they
have already raked in promises amounting to
£32,000, and cash totalling £0000; hut greed, like
whisky, is an insidious thing, and the sight ©f this
respectable bank balance only whets the holy
men's appetites. They propose to hold a great
jubilee in 1888, and to have such a fund built up by
that time as will free all their churches from debt.
Notwithstanding that times are pretty bad in Mel-
bourne just now, notwithstanding that there are
a good many men out of work, and that the public
prints' authenticate the existence of starvation in
certain quarters, we would leave the holy fathers
of Congregationalism to wallow in their golden
orgie without comment, were it not that they im-
port into their last address a little sentence that is f
from a beggar’s stand-point, a genuine gem. in
order that no perrons, however humble, may con-
sider themselves debarred from contributing their
mite, it is notitled that we shall send a collector
into every fireside.” The use there of that word
“debarred” indicates the accomplished beggar
better than a paragraph of description


fllßs
f '<ihFood
COUMTRY MILK.
SUPPLIED by the
& Ice Co., Limited,
Tr-ir» e^e<l u P° n as being
fvJtaJf* 8 PURE -
freg “pm the country districts, as
um Clt y contaminations.
J either
ntaajy irotn +w"w l,ulcu at their own dep6t
adai ryZtrtctB beSt buttor - makers “ the
dail y, Sundays excepted,
city jielivcry is made. Butter by
• daily; suburbs, three times
ksh
Food & Ice Co., Limited,
® A 8ll(!UR street.
Ir-
R-.r
Study economy
and
aaveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
_ .541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sta.
t arasoia made to match cos-
tumes. Renal r« neatly axe
OUUa
4
$>
o
c
Or
o
MARK
vRADE
CO
Or
>+*
m
a
s>
*/
OJNCS g||*
BULL-DOG ALE.-IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALL
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. P Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine but no other brand has the same mellow
vfnoua character, the fullness on the palate,
nnH thp e*reat keeping 1 qualities of tne
DOG ALE Consumers are therefore captioned
oirpinst traders who for the sake of an extra
S” roprient th» common beers iMI to
Sf Wf 1 MS y N«wSue'
BROTHERS & CO, ___
CAPES and SHAW
Respectfully invite inspection of their
SEASON’S GOODS
as follows
nd Children’s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows :
, %CC'X-
-128. 6d TAI LOK-MAD S ULSTERS,
CNchu , uineaa
Ulsters - from ss. fid. to 130 s.
->l’ Ulsters, New Cloths
L« KLTS, in NEW FANCY MATE.
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. 6d
LADIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTERS from 12s. 6d. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
Brocatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
and SHAW.
PEAPES and SHAW.
Standard Tweed Clothing.
have now n for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
°tion of + u®ADY-MADE CLOTHING IN TUB CITY, and would specially recommend
1 T Qe various classes of goods enumerated below.
rv
itat?9? ats > 'CUT long,
iALIAN CLOTH, 255., 505.,
‘^|lT^|s-, r) so^. :LSTE RS. LINED WOOL, 505.,'
'’tfeSj anP jggCK-OVERCOATS, 635.
L.S'ffis£ a r over n n n overooats ’ suitable for
ir Suit, 425.. 505.. 555.
U AI ! ‘ 'PO) f(n , J WEKI) iBAC SUITS are
> %ot . ’ CUT, FIT, STYLE. «nd
f °r Good Honest Value
AS FO LLOWS :
^ ,63s,theSUIT -
ck Vest, 50s.
■'Ninety ' Bfc of England Broadcloth),
tvofl 00 ? Black Uoeskin, 255., 30s.
J BB -6d. 1 shru nk and well made,
O^'Seri 8 ’^ 8 - each
S " k ’*ig’S»fe l !! G G°™s, In Kelt.
to ’ Scotch Knieker, Quilted
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH GOATS and CAPES, Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING.
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. (id. to 525. (id.
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, KB. (id ; the
Suffolk, 12s. 6d ,
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Kmel.ers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 218. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
BLACK 1 DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES, 7s. (id., Bs. 6<L
9s. (id., 10s: (id., Us. (id., 12s. (id.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, TenniS, and Travelling
Hats and Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
Fitted* Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
&^ G1 anta SHAW,
STREET.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
'W'olff Sz Son’s
'vS^esn-cxx-s.
r all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
J^-SLTraxAJsrar.
" PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
iTo'W Oipeaa—
U ‘ .
c pLEERY’S HOTEL,
er ot King and castlereagh streets.
%« «■ WcCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
R lIP -SXA IRS.
■
ft
°oo\
CL°>
SI
ass
t He ONLY GENUINE TINTAGa
TOBACCO
L
w
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
i) - into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
first in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
r „ Ueror > Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
S —CONonw»<-\n a»ri n rt.Y BIRD hold a hich position.
? \ uutvn. «- ” >
, -ONQUBROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
' f^\Tg,vf r ’' ot PiDea Ciirars, and all Tobacconist*’ Sundries.
ROR» TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
T EDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
JLi drink of the army, navy, the clubs, ana the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leaning
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the ottener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sy&aey,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
TRADTC
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS,
extracted from the bark and comb
of the fir tree, consisting of Pine
Wool Wadding, Oil, Extract for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
failing remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and all; nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Sole Wholesale Agents,
S» HOFFNUNGr and CO., Sydney.
None gennine without trade mark and signature,
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
v Chargesstrictly /wo£>£/?a te
MARSHALL BROTHERS
L surgeon dent' STS 106market$t e.
A T.Ti DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hofei,
GBEENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stablibg. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnitlcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIBBT,
From the late Mr. James Cur Tis,
TJndeitaker,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (18) years; also,
Manager for over ten GO) years.
SW ANN’S PILLS
(the great world-famed Liver Remedy) _
are the best and safest aperient
in the world.
They clear (he complexion,
and remove all diseases dependent on a
deranged state
of the
Secretive and Assimilative Organs.
SWANN’S PILLS
are a certain cure for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Nervousness, Pimples,
Constipation, Depression of Spirits, Sleepless-
ness, Foul Breath, Headache,
and
Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
suitable for both sexes ;
gentle, yet thorough in their
action.
Sugar-coated,
and
Easy to Take.
BUY NO OTHER.
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
.
Price Is., 35., Is. All chemists and patent medicine
vendors.
SWANN’S PILLS.
JEHF” Read the following Certificate of Mr. Fred.
Wright, M.P.S., Professor of Chemistry, and the
well-known Lecturer to the Technical College
“ This is to certify that I have examined ‘ Swann’s
Pills,’ aud find that they do not contain any poison-
ous or hurtful drug. They are free from mercury,
and are composed entirely of vegetable ingre-
dients, I consider them a most valuable aperient.
“Fred. Wright,
“Drug Analyst.
“ Sydney, June 19th, 1884.”
m
Ml
nn R BURGIS
l/Ul TAILOR.;
CRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
loroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sidney. Samples and diagrams for s?i'-measdnpg
awarded tv any pat! of the colony
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
tsr THE PREMIES WHISKEY 18
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. lv£atia.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
PALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
SOS iaeergge Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Exycrt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ v 'hiskey Doctors."
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trad© mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule,
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
t£T c. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. H. .Ariell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J 4, y>, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTING HAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 ami 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PAPEIIE ANGI N GS !
■ with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwtck
381 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Va
niahea, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &o.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OF THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
AFTEB OEFORE
Copvriahtni.
MOUSTACHE and WHI3EEB3.
Boyd’s Beard Elixir did this, and
I will do it on cither bald head or
bare face. Forces heavy Mous •
tache in fronts to 4 weeks and never
fails , 20,()00 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 plcts. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect,
each, 3 for 3a. 6d.,post paid, sent under cover, free from observation.
Address, Frank Douglas, Solo Agent. Box I'M. a.P.0., Sydney,N.S.W
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor td W. Alexander,
■wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining', and lied Room lmrniture, also
Oilico Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English paprs and Majf»*!««» received bp
every Mall.
ftOTAI! ARCADE. GEORGE ST., 4*3 BFDNBF


O-old. Te-well® 1 ? -
(REGISTERED.)
si
9 SYDNEY AECADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE
T.ATFST TTAKFrrONF.
■WATCHES, EEOH 3Qs. H-A-CTT.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attende
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS MOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches ol Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N B BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
, oi ooa unoA msv|
SI
SALE EXTRAORDINARY, FOR
OF
» /I
MEN’S, BOYS’, & YOUTHS
NOW ON AT BOTH 8 tftP
J. J. RYUIFS CLOTHING SM
PRIOR TO ALTERATIONS TO THE HAYMAR£ bT ,pne>'
Conte Early and Secure Good FasliioualHc clot,li
J. J. RYAK, 780 George Street, »
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Eratip*, .
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
ALTS
COCOA
S. FRY & SON’S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter. Lancet.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing aIL the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
NORRIE and MAYERS.
Factory and Warehouse,
317 & 319. KENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
T. JONES and CO.,
65 MACQUARIE-STREET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS,
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
buck, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 346.
Ist- best English levers.
T
HE LIVERPOOL & LONDON
Watch Company
l,a vo H EMOVED to those most,
extensive premises at Corner of
Koyal Arcade,
296 Pitt-si. Entrance .
PATENT ENGLISH LEVER WATCHES
Reduced to £') 10*.
Sent to all parts of the colony tree of Charge.
Each watch warranted for live years, and Kept
in repair free of charge.
C. SIMMAT,
PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
Note the above Address.
MASON BROTHEKS,
EXHIBIT
LIMITED,
11 and 13 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA RE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edinburg n Pale ie.
R
OBERT BUTCHER
(Late William Long),
&
0 O.
*sr- WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
534 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prom-ot attention.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
i,oair£
AND
Wt&niuJ
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
higs-ghets
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GILBEY’S SILYERSTREAM schnapps.
Gilbey’a Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
S?« George-street. Sydney.
it* sTB !
SOXiE
17 P
1 rtW«r
- f
and have in stoC
E PUMPS
C OB LIGHTS *
NG PUMPS c OtA^ 1
nNEDAI^f* 0
INEJJ -»■*■*■**
ery pumps
chouse PU^ F
mousE p
JM PU^ rS rIKO P^ P
WELL-SINK^
, B PRICES ,!
- AftP e
logues eoes>^,
ir
p #1
'pa#
fO
jO ljrv .
»p
PAINTS'
OILS.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS, -
ianuiacturer of ail kinds of Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor o
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/o Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liq ll
