

ISS4=_ 3^-©TT'BBT B S. ISS-4.
nn iouEßii sms,
the largest drapery warehouses
AND
e Most Spacious Show Rooms
IN
TUB SOXJTnEEN HEIII3PHESE.
THE LATEST FASHIONS FBOS PARIS AN® LONDON BY EVERY HAIL STEAMER.
*AINO ‘I3MUVIJIVH ‘nniII(MH3 3::irjw
‘snos onv nmm anoh^
wmk
4 'f, OTCIAtt
JL SIKTGLE CHAIH AT WHOLE SALB PRICE.
Speclano-ean-s cf ous TTsefu-l .C!b.aixs,
ONE HUNDRED DIFFERENT STYLES AND PATTERNS.
;pgr* THESE CHAIRS ARE EXCELLENT VALUE, AND VERY STRONG AND DURABLE.
We are now opening Large Shipments of Goods purchased specially for the wants
of the present season. Ladies will find a most beautiful show of NEW MANTLES,
New COSTUMES, and NEW DRESSES. A Magnificent Display of NOVELTIES
in every department, at prices lower than any other house in Sydney.
We are the only UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS in the Australian colonies.
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET (ONLY.)
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
fl
as
BENT TOP, WOOD SEiiT, 3s.
The Bulletin


SHOES.
m
rj - >
> ■-
*■ F
riiiunnmTm
*w
! i.'.vj4fc. 'f'.** \;fes &E?
fSim
A -
S^wi®si
77
‘iipya TH:;a;rr:ia|?i
SSjy&hiiM.: v?;i:M® «i.«
:v. -!:
Sg
Sol
ir;
j i
w^3
*n *•«% >l'.-»i
(Rr^
m
gHg
SJK*:
>•*
i^l
. r
Mi
'mm
mm?
0
r>~*
: m
tut/
SwJSjy
‘
:'’ ■ *'|\ *7 ' •• " 7 V ’ l r
Sw
i^.
’<*:
msm
I
Vjjnjrfu*
■
SH?S
slissi
to
WM
U3I
■
•• i • * , ,'!" i
Ilf
PS
ISI
'■*.
I
■iS Mi
ft tag
S
1 ■
iiil
.a
Wi
gM
.Si
r
ijhßii:
rs
■
aft
,f v ,
m
T»
fl
t!P*
•sgCi
W%
m
,a
T»J
m
=§ \ r a
is
SB
m
-
i^s’i
w>s
m
A-.'
m
m
m
m
?
1
>v-
>rs
S=W(fi ?
m
gs ! iq^^
m
IMS
m
@5
' : M$
ms
m
r^ai
.ISjfSi®.'
r/
D .:;;■ !
lift
■■■—ii;>jj7'' f/x
• ■■•7 in' ?: ■ ;f ?'!.
11‘ f 7 V li i
wn
m
jfi: $9
m
wm
:
ftClgsO
'sxaaaxs xasavn pw aoaoas jo asmoo
hies:— Rundle-st., Adelaide, S.A.; Launceston, Tasmania; Hunter-st., Newcastle; Auburn-st., Goulburn. Wholesale Stores: 57 York-st., Sydney.
SBBS, BSiIBUT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO„ LI VERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG
J. C. Gostling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &e.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M‘Lachlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., &e.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendel and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co., Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port Wine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sautemes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South WAuss.-Scott and Mullaly, T. Alisop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.— James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
South Australia.— w. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received tor shipment to London, under liberal advances.
STAR AND DARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Ilotelis centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramwav &c
Superior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits'
The most Comfortable and Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Manders and Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up. ® M
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
BOYD.
the patrons Of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OP ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
the same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
©
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPl#
Begs to announce to his town and country friends, that ho has just comP
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle sin(j^
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stoek of the Best Brands of Wines
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. Ho can therefore con gpn
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to m
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to hi®*
POUT
\VINB»
40-year old, Gilbey’s .. •*
Celebrated Four Diamond • •
Quality—No. .1 (very superior
No. ***** g ra pe
No.**** „ "
No. *** „ •“
No. ** „
No. * •"
Draught Port Wine, per ln>P° r * fl
40-year old, Gilboy’s ... "' v
Very Finest Amontillado (y° y ...
Fine Amontillado ••• .
Celebrated Four Diamond b n
Common Sherry...
Draught Sherry Wine, per 3 taP e
BRITISH 'WIN^
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine |( ,
Orange Wine
IRISH WHI^ y
Jameson’s *** - n lt\ed &
Old Dublin Whisky (***) botti _
Kinahan’s unrivalled L u
Thorne’s Old Irish Wlusky •••
Jameson’s ” ,ipr t
Dunville’s ... . - r„.V,nri» iq
Dunville T ’ P r
Kinahan’s Draught, per lmP u
Jameson’s „ ”
Flasks
SCOTCH WlU s (
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend •"
Royal Biend
Lome,Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivot ...
Glenlivet Whisk
Flasks
... "rial
per imP cr
gin
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal
Celebrated Key Brand, vc*
bottle containing moie
Flasks Key Gin ...
■fij
lar«
than 11 ,W
11^
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best
aliowod lor. Cases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, ana
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge.
1 Quart SUl’k
2 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 6 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM,
TOTAL-15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay# v
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Oiliee.
Kindly Note the Address—
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit
Mercha^
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, W
0f *os
0
(,li
bcs*
3


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 48.—New Series
SATURDAY, APRIL 12, 1884’
Frioe—Gd.
Bathos!
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, APRIL 12, 1884.
Two events, which were specially calculated
to evoke a remarkably grotesque display of
highly-conventionalised human nature,have
recently taken place:—the death of H.R.H.
the Duke of Albany, and the arrival in Aus-
tralia of the Lord Bishop of Sydney, the
Anglioan Primate. Were one who was a
stranger to the peculiar form of our civilisa-
tion to have brought under his notice the
manner and fashion in which these events
have been usually treated by a large number
of the adult population of this great and
important British colony, he would be forced
to conclusions in no way complimentary
to either their good sense or their good taste.
He would most assuredly have borne in
upon him the conviction that a considerable
per centage of the well-to-do people in
New South Wales entertained utterly false
conceptions as to what constituted true
greatness or a CHRiST-like religion. He
would indubitably come to realise that that
which sought most assiduously and ostenta-
tiously to pass muster as intense loyalty and
deep sympathy with royal sorrow was, with
scarce an exception, the outcome of the
selfishness, the self-consciousness, the merest
lip-service of snobbery: as also, that that
whtoh sought to pass muster as service in
the cause of religion was little else than
pandering to clerical assumption and hier-
archical display.
* * *
The Death of the Duke of Albany has
doubtless caused sorrow in his family circle.
Tenders of real sympathy by personal
friends to his widow, no one but an unfeel-
ing brute would sneer at. With
however, to the perfectly preposterous
offloial conventionalisms deemed essentially
necessary in the case of a demise of a prince
of the blood royal of England—the ridicu-
lous tom-toming with expensive minute
guns (the price of each bang of which would
pay for a meal for some poor wretch, one
of the millions of the Empire’s outcast poor),
the enforced mourning, the paraphernalia of
a simulated woe —what sensible man or
woman can avoid shrugging his or her
shoulders and vowing the wind’s very much
from the east, as he or she contemplates
each extravagant nonsense? What can a
fellow do but laugh in his sleeve consumedly
when a statesman, who enjoys the reputa-
tion of being an orator and a wit, gets up in
his place in one of the halls of our Legisla-
ture and, with reference to the death of a
young man who never displayed any pecu-
liar abilities, or in the field of action ever
did a single hand’s turn for his fatherland,
gushes ore roUindo “ It may have been,
had he been spared, that these Australian
oolonies might one day have enjoyed the
example of hie sacrifice and the fruits of his
intellectual labours. His loss to the country
is a great national sorrow.” Or, when
another statesman of more prosaic stamp,
forgetting that a false “ encomium doubly
ridicules,” speaks of the same young
Prince's “ career of greatness having been
out short;” or when a Governor on receipt
of addresses containing such strained senti-
ments, declares that “it is on occasions like
these that the deep-rooted loyalty of Her
Majesty’s subjects is evinced.” Could more
fulsome expressions have possibly been em-
ployed had the Duke of Albany been a hero-
prince who had sacrificed health and life
and means in the service of his country, who
had wrought for it and fought for it with
the courage and the devotion of an Alfred
or a Peter or an Aurelius ? To load with
heaped-up praise the memory of a life that
wgp only not an ijpoblp one, what is it but
to act analogously to crushing a butterfly
on a wheel or employing a Nasmyth ham-
mi r to drive a tack ?
# • •
As might have been expected, the spirit of
formal false conventionality that was potent
enough to impel ordinarily sensible officials
like Dalley and Stuart to pronounce
absurdly hyperbolical eulogy on the memory
of a commonplace enough young man,
simply because he happened to have blood
royal flowing in his veins, had a prodigious
effect alike upon social flunkeydom and the
journalism that panders to it. Thus one
found it inducing the Evening News, in a
paro.vyism of prostration to speak of the
late Prinoo with all unconcious irony, as
“the student and thinker of his family,” a
remark intensely, though quite uninten-
DR. F. N. MANNING, INSPECTOR-GENERAL OF LUNATIC ASYLUMS.
tionally, rough on the family; and, in an-
other instance, inspiring a puling poet to
tell the world (per favour of the Echo) that
“ The hearts
Of fair Australia’s children sadly beat
A funeral march for him thus snatched away.”
not to forget the striking instance in which
it instigated the members of the N.S. Wales
Commission for the Calcutta Exhibition to
adjourn their last business meeting out of—
well, we hardly know what—and to author-
ise their president and secretary to draw up
a vote of condolence and sympathy with
the Queen in her affliction—a quite mon-
strous piece of impertinence on the part of
the members of the said Commission, since
there was not the faintest shadow of an
excuse for their seeking to intermeddle with
the Queen in her purely domestio grief,
But when snobbery is on the rampage, its
offensive effusiveness defies control!
• • •
With the arrival of the Anglican
Bishop of Sydney, it was perfectly reason-
able and proper on the part of his flock, to
extend to him a cordial welcome, more
especially as Dr. Barby is admittedly an
eminently distinguished man, alike as a
scholar, an educationalist, and a theologian
of the High-cum-Broad school. Not content,
however, with an honest estimate of Dr.
Harry’s abilities and virtues, several enthu-
siastic lickspittles have trumpeted forth his
praises as though he were a saintly martyr
to duty, as though his consenting to come to
Sydney was au act of almost superhuman
self-sacrifice, as though one of the most
self-assertive and worldly-wise of the Angli-
can clergy was clothed with the spirit of
self-denial as with a garment. It is to the
form of the welcome extended to him, and
of the accompanying ceremonial, that we
call attention, since to a great extent it evi-
dences the false conceptions entertained by
a considerable number of professing Pro-
tessant Christians as to what constitutes
Christ-like religion. In the arrival of a
lordly prelate with quite a retinue of ser-
vants ; in the more or less abject tone of the
phraseology of the majority of the addresses
presented to him; in the receptions accorded
him in which none but the well-to-do can
participate; in an elaborate enthronement
from which ceremony the poor of his flock
are “unavoidably” excluded, there being
no more room for the like of them in the
Cathedral than there was for Mary and her
little one in the inn—in these days it is diffi-
cult to imagine how any unprejudiced per-
son can possibly espy any one solitary symp-
tom of a CHRisT-like character—any one
single thing in accord with the simplicity
and the humility which over and over again
were declared by the Carpenter of Nazareth
to be the distinguishing essentials of his
doctrine. As Lsssing truly said: “A con-
test lies between the Christian religion and
the religion of Jesus Christ; the religion
of which Jesus is the object, and that of
which Christ is th» subject.” In that con-
test, Bishop Barry will continue to take the
part of his Church—against£the Nazarenc!
• • •
Were Christ to say—
“ I will go and sea
How the men, my brethren, believe In me,”
and were he to chance to pay the capital of
the mother colony of the Australias a visit
on the occasion of Dr. Barry’s episcopal
enthronement, we eannot avoid thinking
that despite much use of his cross as a sym-
bol, some little referenoe to his work, and
many genuflections at the sound of his
name, he would indignantly declare that all
he saw and heard was but an impudent tra-
vestie of his religion, in which whosoever
will be chief must consent to be as a servant,
in which hierarchical pomp and aught
savouring of ostentation are condemned, in
which no man is to be called Lord (a title
reserved for God alone), and the main object
of which is the preaohing of the Gospel of
Democracy—good tidings to the poor—of a
better time coming for them in this world I
* * *
This is a free country—and if foolish people
like to indulge in absurd fancies and the
luxury of ridiculous ceremonies, they are at
perfect liberty so to do. If it be their choice
to gush over the angel virtues of the de-
ceased Leopold, or to cherish the hopeful
notion that the work of Bishop Barry is
likely in some marvellous manner to make
for the prosperity and progress of the colony,
they can gush or cherish away to their heart’s
content. From pulpit or tribune or plat-
form or newspaper press, it is theirs to say
the thing they will. Those individuals, how-
ever, who will insist upon maintaining that
loyalty and patriotism consist in reverence
for institutions because those ( institutions
happen to exist, and for illustrious person-
ages who chanoe to have been born in the
purple (on its right side, of course), and who
will have it that true Christian religion and
charity permeate a Churoh system in which
Christ’s democratic teachings are categori-
cally denied, must not be a little surprised
if their narrow, narrowing views are met
with jeers and inextinguishable derision by
those matter-of-faot sort of folks who have
learned—not always in the schools and
under professors—to call humbug humbug,
and to judge men and women by their
works, not their titles, and systems, whether
political or ecclesiastical ones, by their
iruits, not the professions of their hierarchs.
Civil Service Reform.
A large and varied assortment of eases in
connection with Civil Service administra-
tion, go to show that the members of the
present Ministry, have, whether taken col-
lectively or individually, like all their prede-
cessors with scarce an exception, got into the
rut of dealing with the Civil Service from
the Civil Service stand-point. The stand-
point may be thus delined. The Civil
Service is to be maintained for the special
behoof of the Civil servant, who possesses a
vested interest, in it, and, by reason of ap-
pointment to it, has upon the State a claim
which nothing short of felony can annul;
the Public having nothing whatever to do
with the matter, save to supply the where-
withal to defray the salaries, and bear with
patience the bureaucratio yoke. It is only
the other day that the electric telegraph-


Thh Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 245.; half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Kates are ss. per Inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 oonsecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony ma be sent, if more convenient.
Mr. Adrnson has decided that the wages
of cival servants cannot be attached by a garnishee
order. More righteous privileges for the “ well-
connected.”
p
ÜBL I C
NOTICE
m, ei, a co.’s
BRIAN BORU
WMMSK.
IS MANUFACTURED PROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORIT WHISKY is bonded for severs,
years before being bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY. Australian con-
sumers will find this brand
PURE, MELLOW, ana WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, in great demand
for this old Irish brand in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold by leading mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY comes direct from
distillers.
-BRIAN BORU WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KING, and CO., “as a firm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is unequalled in this
market fpr age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING St CO., Distillers. Belfast,
Ireland, sole owners of BRIAN BORU
WHISKY.
JAMES YOUNG, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOIJNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure foi; the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
far PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
«S. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Settle Department,
market street.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
OQ TO
0. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
e<a._
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of Bush a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
ether establishment in the world.
0. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d, per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Ths most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 8 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. fld. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Street, Sydney.
authorities, in the interests of their parti-
cular staff, and in direct antagonism to
those of the general public, persuaded the
Postmaster-General into issuing a most
absurd order with regard to press messages:
an order speedily followed by one even
more absurd, with reference to the sorting
of letters for the private boxes, the promul-
gation of which had evidently been pressed
upon the Minister by the permanent heads
of the Post Offlco, out of their sympathy
with their subordinates, and without the
slightest consideration for the purchased
rights of the customers of the department.
Or, take two cases that quite recently have
oocurred in the Department of Public In-
struction—the case of the young Lovelace,
who, having been found guilty of seducing
a pupil teacher, was told not to do it again,
and, his indiscretion being deemed “ only
a little one,” removed to another dis-
trict, where he was not known, the
Minister not being desirous to blight
the immoral young dog’s career, though
apparently utterly careless as to what
might be the result of another lapse
on the indiscreet one's part in the unsus-
pecting locality to which he directed him to
be shifted; and the case of Mr. teacher
Brettell, who being found guilty of fre-
quent drunkenness and disgraceful beha-
viour, was likewise told not to do it again
mid retained in the position of guide, philo-
sopher and friend to the youth of Cessnock,
who are at least fortunate in having for
pedagogue one in whom teacher and shock-
ing example are strikingly combined. Or
take the case of the suddenly-discovered in-
capacity of the head-quarters staff of the
Stock Inspection Branch, met by the Mini-
ster with that worst sort of determination*
the determination to investigate into the
matter by deputy, retaining the while in
their respective positions the officials who
are obviously the delinquents.
• * *
Again, take that very typical case in the
Department of Works, that of the clashing
Of the dignities of the Commissioner and the
Engineer-in-Chief, and the way in which it
has all along been treated, or rather left to
treat itself. Had any resolute Minister ever
tackled this case in the sort of way in which
any similar kind of ca«e would be treated if
occurring in a large business firm—treated
it, that is to say, from the employers’ stand-
point—the serious trouble it has already
involved, and is still involving, would have
been speedily quashed. But, no ! It has
been all along regarded by successive Mini-
sters from the standpoint of the Civil Service
—as to how it affects Civil Service ideas ol
status, or is affected by Civil Service prece-
dents, and so on. Henee, a sort of deadlock
extremely prejudicial to the State railways
management,
* * *
It is the duty of portfolloed Ministers to
see that their respective departments are run
in the public interests. It is their duty to
resist the tendencies of bureauoraoy towards
the formation of an official caste. They hold
ofrioe that they may leaven the permanent
Civil Service with an abiding sense of respon-
sibility to the People for whose benefit and
at whose charges it is maintained. Here we
would interpose an apologue. Once upon a
time, a Scythian philosopher stepped into a
temple at Memphis, where
“ He saw a brisk bluebottle liy on an altar
Made muob of and worshipped as something
divine,
While a large handsome bullock led there by a
halter
Before it lay stabbed at the foot of the shrine,
Surprised at such doings, ho whispered. his
teacher,
‘ If ’tisn’t impertinent, may I ask why
Should a bullock, that useful and powerful
creature,
Be thus offered up to a bluebottle fly ?’ M
Whereupon his teacher (who was in the
Egyptian Civil Service) made answer:—
“No wonder, good sir, that at this you're aghast,
But we as the sign of our Interests view it:
That fly on the lino is Officialdom’s caste,
And that bullock the People that’s sacrificed
to it-*'
Things haven't gone quite so far as this with
the New South Wales Civil Service, but it is
the duty of the Government to see, each one
for his own department, that the Bullock is
hot sacrificed to the Fly.
• • •
Probably in no way are ministers more
guilty of unduly “cottoning” to the Civil
Service than when complaints are preferred
by individual members of the general pub-
lic against one or other of the public
departments. When such an oocurrenoe
takes place, the almost invariable result is
that the Minister, who has referred it for
comment to the authorities of the impugned
branch, aocepts that oomment as gospel,
though, as a matter of course, it goes to
show that no similar branch of any public
service in any country on God’s earth is, or
possibly can be, more satisfactorily worked.
The French proverb autaht vaut Men battre
que mal battre (which may be rendered “as
well be satisfactorily as unsatisfactorily
cudgelled”) here holds good, since a long-
suffering public have already learned by
experience that the difference between the
departmentally alleged brilliancy and the
actual stnipid bungling of bureaucratic
Baisnaanpgement is in reality nil.
With regard to the question how far com-
passion should be showrTto delinquent Civil
servants, it ought to be obvious to the
meanest capacity that in the public service
failure of any kind cannot be treated with
the same amount of leniency that it is possi-
ble and perfectly proper to extend to failure
in private service. In a private firm, by the
exercise of a little extra surveillance, it may
be practicable to overlook even a serious
laches, and to continue employment to its
perpetrator without jeopardising any im-
portant interest. In the public service, any
such surveillance is out of the question,
since the Minister who may be willing to
exercise the charity cannot possibly exercise
any surveillance over the person to whom
he has extended it, and he can hardly ex-
pect anybody else to do so. Better than the
present weak practice of continuing em-
ployment to notorious failures would be the
establishment of a fund out of which to
purchase the vested interests of penitent
delinquents—if, indeed, such fellows possess
any! Better still (to speak seriously) would
be the exercise of firmness and common-
sens j on the part of responsible administra-
tors. It may seem not to be of a piece with
the singularly unwise practice which ob-
tains of giving seducers and drunkards a
second and third and fourth “show,” that
indulgence is rarely ever shown to a Civil
servant who offends against Civil Service
precedents; and yet, strictly speaking, both
customs can be traced to the same idea, and
that is the baneful idea that the public ex-
ists for the Civil Service, not the Civil Service
for the public. So long as a Civil servant
offends (however heinously, short of felony)
against the public, only, let him be repri-
manded and retained at his post; but if he
fails in respect of any formula dear to some
routine-loving Titb Barnacle, let him go
and be cursed to him. Captain Armstrong,
for instance, owed his dismissal to the fact
that he wouldn’t kootoo sufficiently to cer-
tain departmental big wigs, and not to any
reasonable belief on any responsible Minis-
ter’s part that he had in any way jeopardised
the public interests.
■ • •
When individual members of Parliament
make an effort to call attention to anything
wrong in the Civil Service they expose
themselves to rebuffs from a quarter whence
they ought to be able to expect aid. The
bulk of the dead weight of influence of the
daily metropolitan press is against them.
When they speak on the subject they are
told that they are wasting the time of the
House “in desultory and purposeless de-
bate.” And Ministers are quite ready to
echo tho cry of “purposeless debate.”
Several exceedingly bad cases of gross abuse
of patronage by the predecessors of the
present Ministry require investigation, bnt
were any member of the Assembly to
attempt to have them inquired into, he
would be met with the charge that he was
attacking men who couldn’t defend them-
selves ! One ease is a very bad one: the im-
proper promotion of an incapable official
over his seniors’ heads: the “ consideration”
received by the responsible promotor being
notoriously the “favours” of the promp-
tce's Wife.
* * *
The Civil Service must be reformed. It
contains an abundance of good material.
The best men in it are quite as anxious for
its reform as tho most earnest Liberals out
Of it. There can be no difficulty in laying
down the broad lines on which its reform
should be conducted. The public Interest
must be made paramount. Just allowance
must be made on both sides for venial
failure. The maxims of its administration
must be “ a fair day’s pay for a fair day’s
work”: “no government stroke”: “no
mere cats than will catch mice.” Such are
the lines, such the way to do it—all that is
wanted is the will on the part of the repre-
sentatives of the peopla
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lomax and Climax.
Mr. Lomax’s claim for compensation for labour
destroyed property, and consequential loss sus-
tained by him in connection with the recent out-
break of scab is a most interesting- document, and
we should not be in the least bit surprised to hear
that Lucas and Garrett had a hand in construct-
ing it, so redolent is it of Lucasian vigour of
imagination, and Garrettian comprehensiveness
of view. For labour of men and horses, &c., Mr
Lomax wants £lO2B 65.; for destruction of
property, £2430; and for consequential loss,
£21,103 Os. It is in the latter item that he
breaks out into grandeur of conception. For
instance, he asks for £2OOO for loss on pur-
chase and resale of 10,000 wethers at 4s. per
head; for £3OOO on sale of stud ewes, 1500 at 13s. per
head; for £5OOO for loss on being unable to sell
store sheep and breeding ewes, 10,000 at 10s. per
head; and £lO,OOO for general depreciation in
value of station and stock, knocking about of
sheep, more especially ewes heavy in lamb, and
including 3000 stud ewes, and being unable to show
sheep at any of the forthcoming exhibitions, de-
preciation in value of dip of 30,000 sheep through
dipping! When Abbott got this little ornitho-
rynchus, he turned down a corner and minuted
thereon these words “ I shall not entertain
this claim of Mr. Lomax, and he must enforce
the same in the usual way.” If Abbott be
wrong and Lomax right, then sheep-farming
of all oooupations must be the most profitable; eo
the other hand, if Lomax be wrong and Abbott
right, then . Well, let us assixtoe that Lomax
is right, and that his claim is just, and then why
not raise the rent of runs some 1000 per cent, all
round, since (on the hypothesis that Lomax’s
figures are correct—that from henceforth compul-
sory dipping, which does not destroy or per-
manently injure a flock, is “compensated” on his
terms, and that where dipping is not necessary,
the profits are such as his claim implies) run-
holders could well afford to pay it ? Even if Mr.
Lomax’s claim be not excessive, it proves too
much, for the squatter, when a Land Bill is under
discussion.
Futilities.
In its grotesque grapplings with Georg®, the S,
M. Herald has probably done the cause of Land
Nationalism some service. Its readers can hardly
have failed to be properly impressed by the solemn
manner in which it has been shaking its venerable
head over the heresies of the great champion of
the emancipation of the soil; but it would seem
that the Herald is not content to trust its case
entirely to its own futile fumbling. The sore
straits to which it has been reduced are painfully
apparent when it clutches eagerly at the waifs and
straws of journalism thrown out by such loyal and
influential papers as the Irishman, and “an English
paper,” whose name the Herald prudently with-
holds. Cut it must be confessed that if the anti-
dote has been presented to the Herald’s reader,
in its own leading columns, and in the extracts
made from sources it has not deigned to specify*
as well as sources that it would have done well not
to specify, the bane has also, to some extent, been
presented to them, in the articles of Bilroy in
the “ Open Column,” and in the notice
“Social Problems” that appeared as a re-
view. For our own part, we are grateful to
the S.M. Herald for the glimpse it has
given us of certain aspects of the land ques-
tion as Radically conceived, and cannot say that
the effect the articles we have referred to has pro-
duced on our own mind has been seriously injured
by the efforts either of tho editorial pen or of the
sub-editorial scissors. It is clear that the intelli-
gence of the community will require to be much
further enlightened, and the moral sentiment
quickened and elevated, before the Herald— the
organ of wealth and monopoly—is likely to be
brought to recognise and acknowledge that the lapd
is the inalienable and indispensible gift of God to
all the living human beings on its surface, and no
more a just and legitimate subject of private pro-
perty than the atmosphere that envelops it. To
look to the Herald for anything that could be
called “light or leading” on a matter that so
deeply and vitally concerns the mass of mankind
as the relation in which they stand, and ought to
stand, towards their Mother Earth, from whose
besom alone can they draw tho necessary means
of life and comfort, would plainly be preposterous.
The Herald will follow, doubtless, in its own
slow and heavy way, when once it wakens to
oonsoiousness that its interests may be injured if
it lag too far behind its constituents on a question
so momentous as that of the land.
In several instances the barristers appointed to
act as Crown Prosecutors at the ensuing Circuit
Courts are quite inexperienced youngsters, not
"called” a couple of years. It is quite possible
that some of these callow advocates are far better
up in their business than many older hands on the
horse-hair roll. Yet, other things being equal, the
Crown should surely be represented at the Criminal
Assizes by experience rather than extreme ver-
dancy I Mr. Attorney-General is certainly at fault
in the matter of some of these appointments;
though, perhaps, his error leans to generous confi-
dence. Still, it is an error. Better a youth, he may
urge, in whom talent only lacks opportunity to
evidence itself, than a semi-incapable of long
standing. Notwithstanding such an argument, it
appears to us essential that in the Assize Courts to
which cases of gravest issue may at the last
moment be sent, and in which the prisoner will in
all probability be defended by counsel of emi-
nence, an absolute “freshman” should not appear
for the Country. To trust to a " freshman ” is to
run a big risk. It is to enter upon a speculation
the precise converse of making an experiment in
corpore vili.
Fred. B. Gipps speaks the words of truth and
soberness when he says:—“The rainfall of the
colony, even in the driest districts, has been
proved to average far beyond that of the irrigated
regions of America; the question, therefore, of
future prevention of water famine, and of provi-
sion of irrigation, mainly resolves jitself into the
storage capacity afforded by the physical features
of the country.” Had only a tithe of the time,
money and trouble that has been expended upon
bungling the land question been devoted to devis-
ing and initiating a comprehensive scheme of
water supply ifor the “ settled ” districts of the
colony, things would look a precious sight
brighter than they do to-day. Mem.: There are
not a few men with thundering big political influ-
ence who object to water conservation schemes—
droughts, don’t you see, having a tendency to run
properties into the market at a low figure. There’s
more than one Darling-pointer who owes his pile
to “wrecking” after a drought.


Dr. F. N. Manning 1 .
Frederick North Manning, Esq, M.D., In-
fnoctor-General of Lunacy in New South Wales,
whose portrait will be found in our front page,
was born in 18-59, at Rothersthorpe, a small village
in Northamptonshire. He was educated at St.
George’s Hospital, London, and became a member
nf the Colifge of Surgeons in 1880, graduating as
Doetor of Medicine at St. Andrews, in 1831. For
nVarlv two years he acted as Resident 'edical
Officer at the York County Hospital and Dispen-
sary this being his first public appointment; and
for about four years more he served as a surgeon
in the navy, having charge during a few months
{the Infectious Diseases Wards, in the Royal
Naval Hospital, at Haslam, near Portsmouth. As
surgeon on H.M.S. Bsk, Dr. Manning first
visited Australasia, in 1864, remaining on the Aus-
tralian station till 1867, and during those three
years he bad great experience in the New Zealand
war, both in the Waikato district and in the Gate
Pah, where so many officers of the 43rd and 08th
regiments, and of the navy, together with a large
number of men, lost their lives. In 1867 Sir Henry
Parkos.thon Colonial Secretary, gave lir.Manninga
commission from theN.S.W.Government to inquire
into the treatment of the insane in Great Britain and
on the continent of Europe. He went home in the
Esk, and, having obtained leave of absence,
visited the lunatic asylums In England, Scotland,
Franco, Germany, Holland, Belgium, and the
United States. On his return to Sydney, in 1868, he
presented his report on the asylums he had in-
spected during his tour; and, in accordance with
an arrangement entered into with Sir H. Parkes
previous to his departure, he took charge of the
Gladesville Asylum iu October of that year. In 1
1875 Dr. Manning obtained leave of absence for
nine months, and went home again, when he took
the opportunity of visiting the lunatic asylums of
Ireland, Italy, and also those in England which had
been overlooked in his previous tour of inspec-
tion; and, on his way back through America, he
examined the asylums of California. While in
Great Britain, Dr. Manning attended the meetings
of the Medical Psychological Society which were
held in Dublin that year. When the new Lunacy
Act of 1878 or ’79 was passed and created the office
of Inspector-General of the insane, as a matter of
course, Dr. Manning received that appointment,
which he has held ever since. Besides the large
lunatic asylums at Gladesville and Parramatta,
the Lunacv Department includes a hospital at
Callan Park; a hospital for idiots and imbeciles
at Newcastle; a temporary hospital at Cooma; and
a reception house for the insane at Darlinghurst.
In addition to these institutions, the Inspector
General of the Insane has also to supervise what is
called “the observation ward” in Darlinghurst
gaol, and the private asylum at Cook’s River.
Of the pre-eminent professional qualifications of
Dr. Manning for the high and important post he
fills, it is not necessary to speak; he is facile prin-
ceps, and, indeed, has no second among the medical
men in Australasia who have specially devoted
themselves to the study and treatment of mental
disease. The success which he has attained as
official head of the lunatic establishments of the
colony has been even more marked than the suc-
cess that attended him throughout the ten years
during which he was the Medical Superin-
tendent of Gladsville, for as an administrator
he has increased, instead of reduced, the loy-
alty he has uniformly evoked from all his
subordinates, and won the high esteem and
respect of everyone who has made himself ac-
quainted with the humane, and, in every respect,
efficient, manner in which our Hospitals for the
lasane are conducted. In the high-toned, eultl-
vated gentleman who is now Inspector-General of
the Insane, New South Wales has an official of
whom she is deservedly proud, and who, seeing he
is only in his forty-fifth year and full of energy
and capaoity, will doubtless yet do her still more
service in the important position he holds.
The early advent of the N.Z team is caus-
ing some stir in foot ball circles. A combined team
from the North and South Islands is due here on
the 17th May, to play crack matches on the first
three Saturdays in June. The Redfern Club, the
winners of the Gardiner Challenge Cup last season,
held a meeting on Monday night, at which the
prospects of the club were generally discussed.
The splendid combination play which so marked
this dub’s play last year will be its special featuae
this. It is intended to introduce during the season
smoke concerts, a great attraction in the old coun-
try among footballers. A modest ball, to take
place while our visitors are among us, is also
talked of. We know how popular the leather-
hunters are among the ladies.
Bishop Barry would appear to have no
sooner stepped on Australian soil than he put his
foot in it. In the B.M. Hbr.ald of Friday there is
the advertised record of a marriage in at. Paul’s
pro-Cathedral, Melbourne, on All-Fools’ Day, “by
the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of Sydney, Primate
of Australia, assisted by the Rev. Dr. Bromby,
D.D., and the Rev. R. E. Kelton.” Now, the ques-
tlon arises: Was Dr. Barry duly registered as
authorised to marry people In the colony of Vic-
toria ? If he was, he must have been smart about
It. If not, His Lordship rendered himself liable
to be prosecuted for an illegal act, and can
be remanded to Melbourne to answer for
his offence. Dr. Murray, the Roman Catholic
Bishop of Maitland was not so long ago fined £3O
for performing a marriage, not being at the time
registered, and Dr. Quinn, the late R.C. Bishop of
Brisbane, was summoned to the police-court there
and fined £5, for another breach of the same law.
It would be a painful thing had we to turn out the
Permanent Artillery to beat off the Victorian iron-
clad, Cerberus, on her approach to enforce a
demand for the surrender of Dr. Barry, alive or
dead, to a Victorian dungeon.
Reminiscences off the Water-Famine.
Having a arge and commodious bath-room, Mr. Buckswasher, on hearing
Mr. Jones’ edict respecting an intermittent supply, simply stops up all the
cracks, and turns on the tap. By this means, and with the aid of a fiotitious
skark, he is enabled to give his family a perfect swimming bath.
“ Henry, you will have to empty that
cask as Tommy has drowned the kitten
in it!”
Waiter: “SOUP I! groat heavens! You oan't ex-
pect SOUP and the water turned off for a whole
day!! ”
How the water-famine was anticipated. We select at random the method adopted by one small family of providing against the turning off of the water. Every thing hollow
about the house was filled.
The Editor of The Bul-
letin prudently brought
a billy of water from his
home in the suburbs to get
up steam with for running
the press. Unfortunately
the billy sprung a leak
And the press had to be run by hand. We set
the office bore at it. He has frequently offered
to show us “how to get out a paper,” so we gave
him the opportunity.
The boarding-house bowl of water in its
various stages of use by the lodgers.
When the recent rains set in he felt quite jus-
tified in doing it. The neighbours all thought him
rash; but he did db it.—Changed his shirt!


Personal
Items
Mr. W. Willis, Q.C., who lately moved the
rejected motion excluding Bishops from the house
of Peers in England, is a brother of Mr. Arthur
Willis, station-master at Albur.v. A similar
motion was laid before the Long Parliament on
March 30,1641.
Miss Jane Foss Russell, lady undergra-
duate, Sydney University, made the best all-round
record for the first year. Her brother, Harry Am-
brose Russell, soooped in all the scholarships at
matriculation Like wooden legs, educational
nli.'itles evidently run in some families.
Huron Bernstein —Prussian Jew, publicist,
savut. Liberal—dead. In his youth, often in
troubn wPh the authorities on account of his in-
veterate radicalism. A different sort of fellow
from the Bernstein whom i’rix Esmond married,
and who, according to the author of “ The Vir-
ginians,” was a spy and a rogue and a pimp.
Baron Tennyson has not yet taken his
seat as a peer of the realm. His coronet and robes
were prepared in due course, made up in a brown
paper parcel for transmission to the Parliament
Houses, but n»vor reached there. The polioe are
endeavouring to find them, while Alfred warbles
sadly to his home circle—
But 01 for the touch of that coronet gone,
Aud a fold in the gown that is ptigg’d.
Th.iis really too bad. “Some time since
(says i o Tumut Times), wo published the fact
that No* South Waled and Victoria were going to
payajol lannuity. to old Tom Boyd, in recogni-
tion of t e services rendered by him as one of
Hume and Hovell’s exploring party. Not one
copper of the amount promised has the aged
veteran (now nearly blind) received.” 'Tis a con-
founded shame that poor Tom should be buoyed
tip with false hopes.
J. H. Palmer, shorthand reporter to the
Legislative Assembly, on sick leave. Granny
speaks of his “forty years’ continuous service as
shorthand writer to the Assembly ” in forgetful-
ness of the fact that the Assembly is an institution
only twenty-eight years old. Tho first Assembly
opened in ’66, and Palmer was not appointed to his
present position in connection therewith till '5B
(though the date of his first appointment under
the Government is January 1, 1884).
Poor, rusticated Duke of Teck, seems to
have raised too wind sufficiently to get away from
his continen al retreat, to enjoy a brief holiday in
his dear old London, for wo hear of him attending
the Vaudeville theatre, in company with “Wales,”
a few weeks back. A number of the “ profession”
—the softer sox-cherished kindly feelings to-
wards Teck, and must have been glad to see his
handsome phi/, once more—they weren’t among
his creditors, you see. By the way, the Duohess
wasn't there.
“ Orion ” Horne was a wit in his way. In
the infant days of Melbourne a well - known
dramatist complained indignantly of the fact that
while the more reliable Arous critic had given him
any amount of “Jam” the plebian man
had dared to “ damn him with faint praise.” “ But,
don’t you see,” said “Orion,” one is a penny and
the other a threepenny paper.” The Herald
man, of course, only worked up to Ms penny, while
the Arous man went two-pence more, and “ up
went the donkey.”
And so Charles Btuart Calverly (late Fel-
low of Christ’s College, Cambridge), a clever
ftarodist, singer of delightful vers de society and
ngenious translator, his hopped the twig. He
was a kind of combinati m of Mackworth Pried and
Father Prout. When more pretentious work by
more pretentious men is forgotten his quaint
“Ode to Tobacco,” his “Sooracto” (and other
charming translations from Horace), and his
wonderfully witty parodies wifi sparklo in collec-
tions of the Jews d'esprit of the third quarter of
the 19th century.
“The funniest stories,” says Truth, “are
current about Miss Fortescue's behaviour in the
bosom of the Calms household. They say that
she would insist on addressing the ex-Lord Chan-
cellor as ‘old chappie’; that she opened her
eyes with surprise when Lady Cairns presented
her with a Bible, a« though she were a heathen;
that <■ he broke forth into the words of a music-
hall song when a curate was playing a hymn tune
on the piano; that she came down to breakfast
with her hair down, and in a pinafore; and that
she generally opera boutfed the serious family into
which she was introduced.
Those exemplarly hereditary legislators
Aylesford and Marlborough are adding to their
reputation, the former by running a saloon at Big
Springs, Texas, the latter by tearing up subpoenas
and treating the Court of Queen's Bench with
contempt. In the suit of Fearon (trustee) v. Earl
of Aylesford to recover money alleged to be owing
to Lady Aylesford under a deed of separation,
Marlborough was subptenaed to corroborate the
allegation that the kid whom the lady will persist
In stvling Lord Guernsey (Aylesford’s second title),
Is a Churchill bastard. Tho noble duke, on being
duly served with the writ, tore it up, and betook
himself to Cannes. What Mr. Justice Day will do
In tho matter remains to be seen.
It’s highly satisfactory to And that Sir
Henry Brougham Loch is “well spoken of” by
certain Victorians. There’s Lieutenant-Colonel
Bargood, for instance, he's a groat warrior and a
shining light in the soft-goods trade. Well, the
gallant colonel states that “ when he was at home
ho made the acquaintance of Sir Henry Brougham
Loch, and was impressed with his abilities, and his
capacity for the exercise of public functions.”
There’s no doubt that it must take a right down
good man to “impress” a Victorian colonel, but
we are curious to know whether It was as Governor
of the Isle of Man, or Commissioner of Woods and
Forests, that Sir H.B.Loch gave him such striking
Illustrations of “his abilities and his capacity for
the exercise of public functions.” The latter posi-
tion is not usually regarded as a particularly try-
ing one.
Archibald Forbes, in a most pathetio
M par.,” tells of the meet'ng of Valentine Baker
Pasha with his old regiment, tho 10th Hussars, at
Souakim, a story neaty enough idealisod, yet in
no way touching to those who remember the
character of the crime on account of which ho was
dismissed the British service. Had it been a duel,
now, or other criminal act compatible with manli-
ness, for which he suffered, one could understand
a lellow “seemintr to catch the undertone of a sob
i a the cheer that rose above the strains of ‘Auld
Lang Syne.’ ” In view of what his offence actually
was, “ Auld Lang Syne ” was certainly suggestive,
but suggestive of a day when an officer and a gen-
tleman was guilty of a base outrage on a defence-
less woman. There’s been too much gush about
Baker altogether. Men who commit, in N. S.
Wales, the blackguard crime of which Baker was
guilty are flogged.
In February last Lady Eliott-Drake un-
veiled at Plymouth a statue to Sir Francis Drake.
Truth, pokiug fun at the Devonshire papers which
describe the lady as a descendant of the great
Admiral, says: "Nothing can be more absurd, for
Sir Francis left no issue. Lady Drake’s husband
has only a remote connection with Drake through
Thomas (Sir Franois’ brother), who was known in
his day as * a man not over wise.’ ” This puts us
tmind of the fellow who begged assistance of
her Sala or Hannay, on the ground of being
eally descended from Addison. Replied Sala
■ Hannay): “I will merely remark that when
Addison died he left an only daughter, aud she was
911 idiot, and therefore, so far, there would seem
to be some colour for the truth of your assertion;
but, seeing that this idiot daughter died in child-
hood, I am bound to say you are an infernal liar.”
It was Governor Loch’s father (if we mis-
take not) who was the only Bast India Company’s
diiector, who, in the period ’27 to ’29, when Wag-
horn was trying to knock into the heads of the
crass imperial postal authorities the advantages of
steam communication between England and ihe
East, stood by the impulsive and enthusiastic
young lieutenant. Governor Loch himself served
as a youngster on Gough’s staff throughout the
Sutlej campaign—probably the bloodiest time ever
soldier served through, lie was at Chillianwallah
When the’Giniral’s Irish blood was up,
And the battle cry was “faugh-a-ballagh;”
and at the “ crowning mercy ” of Guzerat, in
which the sway of Shore Singh passed away, what
time
By the Jhelum’s side their might Gough tried,
And taxed the pride of the Khalsa gunners ;
For he laid them flat at Guzerat
With his English-Irish dose of stunners.
Paul Siraudin wrote the libretto of
“ Madame Angot.” He combined the professions
of confectioner and play-wright, and died the
other day aged 72. He was well known in Paris as
one of " infinite jest, of most excellent fancy.”
Once Nestor Koqueplan, manager of the Theatre
des Varieties, was so plagued with budding
authors, that he denied himself to all persons with
a roll of manuscript in their pockets and a look
whether intellectual or hungry on their faces.
Siraudin had been more than onco in danger from
the concierge's bull dog. One day he noiiced some
bricklayers at work at the house, and a long ladder
right up to Roqueplan’s window. He at once ex-
changed clothes with a hodman, and mounted the
ladder with his manuscript in the hod. Even then
Koqueplan wouldn’t receive him, so Paul sat on
the top of the ladder and read his manuscript
through a broken pane. It was “ La Vendetta,”
and a most successful piece of tomfoolery, which
Roquoplan acc»pted before the reading was half
over.
It is not generally known— but it’s just as
true as if it wore—that the present year holds quite
a monopoly of centennial anniversaries which are
well worthy of mention. First of all, here’s fun
for the Liedertafel. Two hundred years ago the
mighty musician (and equally mighty eater, too),
George Frederick Handel, was born at Halle, and
Auber and Spontini honoured this world by their
first appearance just 100 years back. Handel and
Bpontini had decent, respectable send-offs when
they stepped out, but the composer of “ Fra Diavo-
lo,” “Domino Noir,' ’&c., died during the roustabout
days of the last French and his corpse
was ignominiously kicked into a Parisian gutter
where it lay for three days before it was planted.
Now, Herr Vogrioh, we’re waiting for the “Mes-
siah/’ “ Masaniello.” and “La Vestale.” Jerome
Bonaparte, King of Westphalia, was born, and
Diderot, the great French “encyclopedist,” died
100 years ago. Samuel Johnson’s death centennial
is due on September 13 Lord Henry John Palmer-
ston was born on the2oth October. 1784; and exactly
three centuries ago, on July 10, William of Orange,
the Liberator of the Protestant Netherlands, was
assassinated. Surely some of these deserve a
“ banket,” or at the very least a picnic down the
’arbour.
At Echuoa a recent double wedding has
plunged society in bewilderment, and in all the
bar-parlours there is dire disputation, while
stringy-bark flows in a perpetual stream. A father
and son have married a daughter and her mother.
That is to say, the father has married the daughter
and the son has married the mother. Now, the
problem which people are trying to solve by soak-
ing their brains, is primarily what relation the
fiarties now bear to one another. At the Travel-
ers Rost the ayes have it that the father has be-
come his sou's son-in-law, and is, consequently, his
own grandfather-ln-law. But at the Coach and
Horses it has been decided by a majority that the
father, having married his son’s wife’s daughter,
is his (the father’s) son’s step-son, and that his wife
is his son’s step-daughter. So that he is his own
son’s grand-step-son-in-law. The subject is to be
argued out, by the local debating class, but the bar-
pariours have not whited, and are now two casks
of rum and a generation ahead. They are engaged
at presont, in elucidating the relationship which
the children of each marriage will bear to each
other, and have got so far as to be undecided
whether the son’s sons will be the father's great-
Srand-step-fathers-ln-law, or his (the father’s) sons,
is first son’s grand-fathers, step-brothers, uncles-
in-law, or—ohl give us something to drink, some-
body 1
Clemenceau, who holds views of the Brad-
laugh colour, has been lately on a visit to England,
whore he was received as a distinguished visitor
by men who regard the member for Northampton
with horror. Strange, ain’t they, man’s little in-
consistencies ? Clemenceau is a doctor, but doesn’t
practice. He is the son of a doctor who also for-
sook mediolne for Radical politics. La
Lepeaux, colleague of Barras in the Directory,
was his great uncle. Clemenceau was reared in
Le Bocage. His mother, a freethinker, prepared
him for the classes he attended at Nantes. In the
holiday times of his youth he bicame one of the
best shots in France; indeod, he loved Hport more
than study, and only got his “ baccalaureat ” by a
severe struggle with his dislike for work. Clemen-
ceau conspired against the third Nap., and son ed
a sentence in Mazas gaol. On regaining his liberty,
he went to the United States, where in a “ mixed ”
college in Connecticut he held for a while the pro-
fessorship of French Literature, and where also
ho got an exquisitely pretty little woman for a
wife. On his return to France he soon became an
authority among advanced democrats. At the
close of the siege of Paris he had, as a Belleville
“red” suspected of communism, several narrow
squeaks for his life. A friend of Gambetta (whom,
by the way, he “assisted” in his duel with De
Fourton), he gavo a general support to his policy,
though his own views were more extreme. Gam-
betta developed into an opportunist: Clemeneeau
remained the uncompromising democrat. As the
leader of the Parisian democracy, and the inspirer
of La Justice, George Clemenceau is a power in
French politics.
The Earl of Grosvenor, we learned some
time ago, had departed hence for. doubtless, the
usual wrangle with St. Peter. Well, his heir is,
comparatively speaking, a baby, and anent his
prospects the Welkly Dispatch thus dilates:—
“Wo cannot contemplate the prospective wealth
of this child without something like a feeling of
dismay. Unless a comprehensive measure of land
reform is carried before he reaches manhood, the
very existence of a subject possessed of such
fabulous and ever-increasing wealth will become a
social danger.” There is a lot of “grissle” in
this; and it reminds us. for obvious reasons, of
this story of the Shah. When in London, ho was
invited to a magnificent entertainment at the
Duke of Sutherland’s mansion in Picadilly. Meet-
ing the Prince of Wales there, he said, “Is our
host very rioh ?” “A great deal richer than I am,
vour majesty,” replied the Prince, laughing.
“ And Is ho powerful ?’’ enquired the Shah. “ Im-
mensely,” said Albert Edward. The Shah con-
sidered a minute, then drawing the heir apparent
into the embrasure of a window, he said, briefly.
“ Cut off his head.” And there is another little
anecdote about Esser-er-din which is equally
characteristic. He was being shown over a picture
gallery, when he became much struck by the
picture of a donkey, and expressed a wish to pur-
chase it. “ How much ?” enquired the Snah.
“One thousand guineas your majesty,” replied
the Cicerone. “Whatl Allthatl Why, if he was
alive he would not cost near that sum,” said the
Shah. “ But remember,” remarked Prince Arthur,
“that this donkey costs nothing for his keep.”
The picture was immediately purchased.
Mr. Francis Ormond, M.L.C., who was so
recently at loggerheads with the working men of
Victoria over the naming of his “ Leopold ” Work-
ing Men’s College, callod a special meeting of the
Council to arrange for the despatch of their own
particular message of condolence to the Queen
and the Duchess of Albany. There was a certain
appropriateness about this that was more than
touching. Mr. Ormond, it would seem, was quite
an old and dear friend of the Prince, for he stated
at the meeting that “ perhaps few in this colony
have had a better opportunity of knowing how
great an interest the late Prince Leopold took in
the welfare, the educational improvement, and
social advancement of the working classes. It
was my privilege, during a recent visit to the old
country, to hear him address artizans and wage-
earners; and just before leaving Britain in 1880, I
had the honour of being present at the Guild Hall
when he, surrounded by a distinguished company
of ladies and gentlemen, distributed the Queen’s
prizes to the students of the Metropolitan Art and
Science Schools. He, on that occasion, spoke so
kindlv, so encouragingly, to students and teachers,
that I felt his sympathies were entirely with the
working classes.” Fancy enjoying the “ privilege ”
of hearing the Prince “ address artizans no
wonder the college was named “ Leopold,” for an
incident like that deserves commemorating. But
we don’t quite follow Mr. Ormond when he argues
that the fact of a Prince “ speaking kindly ” to
art-students proves his sympathies to have been
‘‘entirely with the working classes.” Yet, pos-
sibly, the spectacle of a royal Duke, “ surrounded
by a distinguished company of ladies and gentle-
men,” gives one a deeper insight into these
matters.
Speaking of fast women reminds us of a
lady who, though she is fortunately dead, left an
uncertain number of her choico descendants as a
legacy to the British taxpayer. Elizabeth Chud-
leigh was a gushing child of nature who stirred up
things generally during last century. She was a
celebrated beauty, who gained both the attentions
and the purse of an aristocratic protector at an
early girlish age. The Earl of Bath found Miss
Chudleigli such an amiable girl that he got her
appointed a Maid of Honour at Court. No sooner
this, than the lady gave the;noble Earl the mitten,
and the Duke of Hamilton became her “ practical
admirer.” In a moment of pique, however, she
married a lieutenant whom she hated—refusing
the very next morning to live with him, and he
went to sea in despair. Partially free, the lovely
grass widow, under various protectorships, then
fluttered from Court to Court on the Continent.
It was impossible she could live on her salary as
Maid of Honour, and, as the historian delicately
puts it, “many names were associated with hers.”
She appeared at balls; so nearly nude that Walpole
observed. “You would take her for Andromeda.”
One day she said to Lord Chesterfield, “ My lord,
have you heard the rumour that I have had twins?”
“Madame, I only believe half of what I hear.”
replied the Earl neatlv. The Duke of Kingston
became infatuated with this choice, chic lady, and
she became Duchess of Kingston, brlblDg her
lieutenant husband to silence. In flve years, the
Duke died, leaving her his whole fortune, upon
which she started a starring tour, dazzling the
great capitals with her splendour. She was
splendidly received by that wonderful Empress,
whom, as Byron says, “glory still adores as great-
est of sovereigns, and worst of’’—something or
other. We forget. Miss Chudleigh’s style just
suited Catherine. She purchased a house in Eng-
land for £35,000, but left it to be inhabited by a
builder, whose good looks she fancied. Then in
Paris, she bought another for £55,000, over which
there was a law-suit, and on hearing the decision
given against her, she burst a blood vessel and
died. It will easily be seen how difficult it would
be to determine exactly to what extent a lady of
this kind varied the census returns in her day; but
as the results of most of her efforts were highly
aristocratic, and even semi-royal, of course they
were not left to buffet a rough world by them-
selves. The British tax-payer assists many of
them still, and they, in return, call the British tax-
payers cads, and say these low people must be kept
down.
Of all the ninnies who undertake to write
for the press, school-teachers, as a rule, are the
most obtuse. Because a man has his head full of
book learning, and can teach the young idea how
to shoot, it doesn’t follow that he is capable of
either instructing or edifying the public at large.
The best newspaper writers the world over have
grown up in the business—worked at the “ case,”
and got their education in that great university
of learning, the printing office. Few of our best
press writers have been college graduates, and the
reason is that when a young man comes out of
college he knows so confounded much that he isn’t
a bit of use around a newspaper office. In the
course of four or flve years, with patient coaching,
he may develop into a good journalist, but you
may depend upon it the first three years will have
to be spent in drilling into his head the fact that
he doesn’t know anything. After that is accom-
plished he will begin to learn something, but the
training requires more time and patience and
labour than an editor is willing to devote to a col-
lege graduate when he can send up stairs and call
down any one of half a dozen compositors, gradu-
ates from the “case,” who can report anything
from a dog-flght to a royal wedding, or write any-
thing from a critique on the latest work in meta-
physics, down to a fairy tale or a poem in seventy-
two cantos. As a sample of college-bred news-
paper work, we quote from the Manning River
Times the following paragraph from the letter of
a Sydney school teacher who undertook to des-
cribe a trip up country for the benefit of
the public in general: “At about 4 p.m., we
arrived at the beautiful city of G rn, which may
be regarded as the capital of a very important
district. It is beautifully situated on the edge of
some open downs called the G ——rn Plains; it is a
thriving place, with a population of between 5000
or 6000. Seeing a policeman on the platform, and
thinking he could direct me best, I enquired the
way to a Mrs. SI er’s, Cl rt-street, where I
intended staying for the night, so he kindly
showed me. I told him my name, and he imme-
diately asked if; I wore any relation to M——c (as he
called him) who was in G rn some time ago, and
being answered in the affirmative, he enquired
after J k's welfare, &c., and promised to come
to my place after six o’clock and escort me
through the city, which he did. We went first to a
Mr. Mo d’s, the mailman from G rn to
Cr—-11.” Now, we dare say that correspondent
is a very good school teacher, but, from a jour-
nalistic point of view, he doesn’t know enough to
pound sand into a rat-hole.
There are two sides to every question, and
respecting Mr. Caulfield, the boy-politician of Mel-
bourne, additional particulars, somewhat at vari-
ance with those already published, have become
available. Writes a correspondent:—“ Mr. Caul-
field is referred to as ‘a sort of hotel-broker with-
out much nous, but amply supplied with brazen
audacity.’ Let us see how far this is true. Caul-
field is undoubtedly the smartest hotel-broker in
Melbourne, and, as to his being without much
nous, I can only say that his bitterest enemies have
never even denied the fact that he is a most astute,
sagacious, and naturally talented young fellow.
Again, as to his being a ‘ windbag,’ I can only say
that he is far and away the best platform speaker
of his age in this colony. Your paragraphist says
Dr. Simms handled Caulfield's ‘empty skull.’ If
Mr. Caulfield has an empty skull, I am at a
loss to know where to look for a full one.
Let me relate a few incidents in Caulfield’s
career. The * Boy Politician ’ left home and went
out upon the world to seek his own fortune when
only thirteen years of age. At the age of fourteen
he was manager of a country post and telegraph
office. At the age of fifteen he settled down in
Melbourne and followed various occupations. He
then got into the hotel-broking business, for which
he seemed to have a special aptitude, and which
pursuit he ha 9 followed ever since, his yearly
income being estimated at about £lOOO. Some
few years ago he wrote some excellent letters
to the newspapers, and delivered capital
speeches on public questions. And yet this young
man has not quite yet attained his majority, being
still under the age of 31. He is thoroughly radi-
cal in his political proclivities, which makes him a
little unpopular with the ‘ wealthy lower orders.’
He is often taken to task by the Herald, and is
hated by the Age, because he sympathises with
the Irisn Land League, and supports all ultra-
liberal movements and organisations. On the
whole, he has had to fight, single-handed, a tough,
up-hill battle, and he deserves every credit for the
Eluck, energy, and the indomitable perseverance
e has displayed. He has made but two serious
mistakes. When the agitation was set on foot to
obtain a reprieve of the death-sentence passed on
Ned Keliy, Caulfield joined the movement. About
two years ago he became inflamed with a mania for
horse-racing and poker-playing, which caused him
to file his schedule. He reluctantly beoame in-
solvent, although be could have evaded payment
of his debts by pleading infancy-in-law, but he
was too manly to shirk his responsibilities in such
a fashion. Since his insolvency he has been carry,
ing out a resolution he made to pay his creditors
30s. in the £.”
“Sargint” Dalton is one of the best known
mimbers of the Victorian Police “Foorce,” and
during his career in Melbourne, which has ex-
tended over twenty years, he has been a terror to
the larrikin fraternity, many of whom have had
good occasion to know that “ ’tis he has the heavy
hand.” To the sargint’s rich gutteral brogue-a
brogue redolent of “ Cork’s own town an’ God’s
own people’’-the colonial litterateurs are in.
debted for the word “larrikin,” for in giving evi.
dence one day against some sportive youths in the
city police court, Dalton said, “ When I axed thitn
what they wor doin’ there, they tould me they wor
only larrkin’.” Hence the word “larrikin.” His
herculean build, his rugged features a complete
and comprehensive map of Ireland and his
"aigle-eye,” ever seemingly on the look-out for
bad “ karackthers,” make him at once a notable
object amongst the noble army of peelers who
grace the city court every morning with their
presence. And not only on “the iiure ov the
court ” does the sargint show his “shupariority,”
but when he gets into the witness-box the origin-
ality in his style of giving evidence rarely fails to
provoke unbounded mirth amongst the habitues
of that sweet spot and causes the austere police
magistrate to unbend, the Hebrew contingent of
beaks to momentarily forget the prevailing rate
per shent, and even the classic-featured Noonan
and the ceremonious and dignified O’Grady to re-
lax into smiles that would do credit to a corner-
man at a nigger-minstrel show. Perhaps the
evidence of the sargint sometimes may ap-
pear rather mixed to the average hearer, but
if he doesn’t hit the mark with the first
“offer” he generally goes within “the pelt ov
a wattle ov it,” to use his native diction. Well, at
the time when the railways to the Northern
suburbs were in the course of construction, the
navvies;used to hoist in a skinful of beer occa-
sionally, and, consequently, would sometimes
bring themselves under the professional notice of
the “ sargint ’’—who, by the way, was then only a
constable. One morning he appeared with one of
those festive revellers at the City Court, and, after
“kissing the book” with a smack that reverber-
ated through the cells in the adjacent building, he
proceeded thus with his evidence: “ Yer Wortchup,
as I was walkin’ along my regular bate lasht night
about two o’clock in the mornin’, I saw the navi-
gathor in the dock forninst you within about
thirteen perches ov the Eleezabeth-street markets,
where he was lyin’ on the broad of his back in the
gutther in a flghtin’ attidude, drunk an’ speech-
less, an’ shtatin’ the word b in a loud tone ov
voice. Sez Ito him, ‘ Get up out o’ that, will you,’
sez I. ‘I will not,’ sez he; an’ he would not. ‘Get
up out o’ that, or I’ll knock you down,’ sez I a
second time, when he merely repated his answer.
Wid that, yer Wortchups, 1 surrounded him, an’
wid the gratest difookulty I brought him to
Swanstown-street lock-up, an’ here he is before
yer Wortchups this mornin’.” The prisoner was
sent up for seven days.
Thomas Alva Edison, the great electrician
who gave to the world the telephone and the
electric light, was kicked out of the telegraph
olfice in Baltimore when a mere lad at work for
fiddling with the wires, and his plea that he was
working out an idea didn’t save him. From his
earliest years he seemed to have a nose for dis-
covery and his mother said of him that he could
find a pot of jelly where her other children
wouldn’t think of looking for it. Like every
other great genius Edison, is an eccentric man. So
devoted is he to his science that he swallows his
meals in the greatest haste and gives but four or
five hours out of the twenty-four to sleep. One
day, while trying to materialise his electric-light
EDISON.
conception, a fellow lodger droppedlnto tala work-
shop. In the course of a conversation which
ensued, the visitor asked: “Why don’t you
get married, Edison ?” “ I haven’t time to
make love,” was the reply. “There’s ‘Betty’
now, the housemaid. She’s a good, steady
girl, and would make a good wife for a sober, in-
dustrious man like you. Why don’t you marry
her?” “ I fiever thought of it, ’ said Edison. “Go
and ask her if she’ll have me,” Betty’s answer
was entirely satisfactory, and that evening the
ceremony was quietly performed. Edison is a
printer by trade, and whenever he visits a strange
town he always goes into the composing rooms of
the leading newspapers and has a chat with the
boys. He says that the smell of printers ink docs
him good, and we know that the use of it has
given him considerable renown.
John Henry Caton was a stock-dealer in
Canterbury (N.Z.) about twenty-five years ago.
He was born in Smithtteld, close to the celebrated
market, and used to say that he was connected
with stock from his birth. He emigrated to Sydney
in 1849, and in 18'3 found his way to New Zealand.
During the rush to the Otago diggings, in 1862, Mr.
Caton arranged with Mr. William Wilson, of
Christchurch, familiarly known as “ Cabbage Wil-
son,” to enter into a speculation for buying cattle
in Nelson and Marlborough, where they were
cheap, and drive them overland to Dunedin, where
the price of beef was very high. His instructions
wei’e to sell the cattle in Dunedin to the best ad-
vantage, and bank the money there on account of
the firm. The speculation proved a success, and
Mr. Caton found himself in possession of £2OOO,
which sum, instead of putting in the bank, how-
ever, he deposited in a new carpet bag specially
bought for the occasion. He started for Christ-
church overland in company with Mr. H. Prince,
the well-known racing celebrity; and when they ar-
rived at the river Waitaki, the boundary between
Otago and Canterbury, he made an arrangement
with one of the ferrymen that, when crossing the
river, they should get up a disturbance among the
I dogs belonging to the party, and in the scuttle the
carpet-bag was to be chucked overboard. This
plan was carried out, but, unluckly for John
Henry, a passenger rescued the precious bag
before it sank, and the little device failed. They
rested that night on the north side of the Waitaki.
and Caton made an excuse to leave the camp to
look after some horses in the river bed. He went
away, and during his absence night came on. On
his return, he asked the tent keeper where his
carpet-bag was, and evinced extreme anxiety
when it could not be found. He afterwards called
attention to tbe tent being cut, and declar°d the


"gIMIL FRESE’S HAMBURG TEA
THE GREAT GERMAN FAMILY MEDICINE.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved Itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Calas, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney, and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c., caused by an impure state, or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Serofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventive against con-
tagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and Con-
tagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood, cleanses
the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the whole
system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the bowels
in a mild and certain way. It works on the system
generally, causing little or no discomfort. It will
prevent almost any disease if used at least once a
month. It restores the appetite, it removes the
distress caused by eating hearty food or overload-
ing the stomach, and will be found effectual as a
Family Remedy where a simple purgative only is
needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT. Full
directior s in English, French, Spanish, and Ger-
man with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies at ONE SHILLING a packet. Whole-
sale Depot for New South W aIes—ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, Sydney.
WeaftHerviusHen
Whose debility, ranted
powers, prematura ifteeay
and failure to perform lite’>
o«ties properly are caused 1/
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will hnO a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and Vigorous manhood in
THE IWARSTGM BOLUS.
stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility Ss4
. Physical Decay isuniformly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness, Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY C 0„ 52Castlereagh St., Sydney
■jO ÜBL 10 NO TIC*.
J. TtIRNER ROBINSON * CO.'S
TAILORINB
late 182 CLUi 484,
ESTABLISHED 1864.
REMOVED TO
478 QBOKBK Sf 8187
NEXT DOOKBUT ONE.
08, TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHO?
~pIINEST CIGARETTES. FINEST CIOARKITE3
VANITY" FAIR VANITY FAIR
VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and’co..
Rochester. U.?.A.
H. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
11. L. SUMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON. E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
j3gp Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-«neasurement Forms sent post free, on application.
Tita-a USelia/tole 33io.grg:ies!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING}, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
NOTWITHSTANDING THE LATE DISASTROUS FIRE,
da ZBX3TTCIB
ARE ABLE
TO OPEN THEIR- NEW MAGNIFICENT PREMISES,
187 PITT ST., (Opposite Coxnpagnoni’s),
WITH A COMPLETE STOCK OF
Sinai Finns, Snith Organs, aid h Isis.
Note the New Address—NEAß KING STREET.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
FOR 1884,
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OUFM3ICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and givo
the Best Satisfaction, off
any machines made.
Our Prices Lowest.
Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion e £ iy customer.
Write to us,
OR
Call on us.
jAMESH«im,VIBI& GOBPY.,
• 389 Q£ORGG STREET, SYJDNEV (Opposite Royal Hotel).
had bfebn stdlbrt. After a long search, it was
last disCoVefed in d gtilly a short distance away,
vlnoed open) and disported of ltd supposed treasure
nf Ssofld. Prince being afraid he might be accused,
Save notice to the police, and when Caton reached
uolleston, Detective H. Feast and sergeants Purdio
and Willis Were waiting for him, He was searched
without result, but, at the bottom of a pair
long boots, hung over a chair to dry, the
missing £2030 was found. The trial, which
Allowed at Christchurch created great interest,
and John Henry soon got a billet for four years in
tae Government road-metal department. After
the expiration of his term of office in New Zealand
he visited Sydney for his health, and afterwards
went up Country, where he prospered. He was
about to tie returned as a member of Parliament,
when fortunately for his present welfare he was
taken away suddenly from the evil to come by
being drowned In the river Lachlan, thereby prov-
ing conclusively that it was not originally intended
he should have a more elevated place ot exit. We
will now tnhc up a parable and collection, the
former for our edification and the latter on behalf
of poor old “ Cabbage Wilson.” C. W. is the owner
of a great portion of the city of Christchurch, and
the ground on which it is built, from the shingles
and chimney-pots overhead right down to the
centre of the planet where he joins boundaries
with the Marquis of Westminster. (As yet the
survey pegs have not been put in down there,
owing to the climate, which resembles somewhat
that of JBourke, N.S. Wales.) Anyhow, and more-
over, as might be expected from the state of
the money market in Christchurch and the mi-
crosopic value of street frontages and corner
allotments, poor old “Cabbage” is now almost
in destitute circumstances, and has been com-
pelled of late to resort to the miserable de-
vice of sporting a new velveteen coat and silk
hat to make believe he is still well off. Thirty
years ago, while nourishing a youth sublime, and
promulgating his rows of cabbages on the site of
the present Cathedral, despite the ravages of
worms and caterpillars he was rich beyond the
dreams of avarice, and we never met him then on
the lee side of a phormium tenax but what he had
the price of at least two whiskeys in one or other
of his front pockets available as a bar tender at
short notice. But now, alas, how different his con-
duct under the pressure of his prevailing penury.
We meet him twenty times a day and he makes no
fign—merely rattles his keys in a pocket big
enough to hold ja forty pound ham, and passes on,
and leaves us— the friend of his youth—sorrowing
and thirsty, to muse on happier days. Awfully
sad, isn’t it? But one thing cheers us still and
eaables us to keep up our courage. The poorer our
old friend grows the heavier he bf comes. He now
weighs several toDS. Once, lately, we saw him
lean against a factory chimney 200 feet high and
we feared the consequences and fled into the next
street. When w'j returned he was gone, but that
chimney stalk now resembles the leaning tower of
Piisa. It is not straight by a long chalk, but C.B.
himself is, as a die, nevertheless.
Many years ago, Jimmy Walker, as he was
afterwards called, deserted from a whaler and
went to work In the bush at the Bay of Islands,
N.Z., splitting posts and sawing logs for the early
settlers. Shortly afterwards, he got a billet with
Sir Geoxge Grey, the Governor, as a gardener and
general utility man about Government House.
Ho was then a handsome, stalwart young fellow,
and Sir George took quite a fancy for him, an ex-
ample which was quickly followed by one of the
Governor’s female servants —a dusky, warm-
blooded Maori maiden fresh from the Hot Springs,
who soon beguiled Jimmy away from the haunts
of civilization, to live with her as her lord and
Kangatira among the Maoris. After living with
the natives for several years, he left them sud-
denly, leaving his wife behind, on discovering that
the old chief had grown Intensely jealous of him,
and had proposed, all well, to substitute the
Pakeha for the usual missionary or wild pig that
graced hte hospitable board. As this benevolent
intention did not exactly tally with Jimmy’s pre-
conceived ideas of his own ultimate destiny, he
fled the scene, and soon afterwards found his way
to Akaroa, in the Middle Island, where he became a
great favourite with the natives, and took to
himself another wife. When the Otago goldfield
was discovered, Jimmy followed the crowd in
search of fortune, and it was while engaged pro-
specting in the far interior of that province that
be experienced what he afterwards considered the
greatest sensation of his life. This was nothing
less startling or extraordinary than getting a good
view of a live moa. Whether Jimmy and his mate
(who also strenuously affirmed he saw the crea-
ture) were suffering from some strange hallucina-
tion, or whether they really did see this wonderful
bird, will probably always remain a mystery, but
there is still a wide stretch of unexplored country
in the county known as Fiords, and it is possible
that in this almost inaccessible region a last speci-
men of the moa may yet be found. According to
Jimmy’s narrative, he and his mate were camped
out in a deep gully a little above the creek where
they had been prospecting for some time. One
evening they had just knocked off work, and were
preparing the supper, when his mate suddenly
cried out: “ Good God I Jimmy, what’s that ?”
On turning round, Jimmy could scarcely believe
his eyes, for there, right in front of them, on the
opposite side ef the gully, stood the moa bird that
he had so often heard of among the Maoris. Jimmy
told his mate what it was. The mate, who had
heard how frightened the Maoris were of this great
monster, got very nervous, and began to shake all
over, thinking it might step across and gobble
them up one after the other as a rooster
does a worm or a caterpillar. The bird ap-
peared to Jimmy to be about ten feet high, and
from the knee downwards it looked as if it had a
pair of officers boots on—quite shiny and black.
Its feathers were a lightish grey colour, and it
seemed to be able to turn its head round to look in
any direction, as it first glared at them with one
eye, and then deliberately brought the other eye
round also to inspect them. Jimmy confessed he
felt a little bit skeered himself, especially when he
remembered that they had no weapon more deadly
than a small tomahawk with which to defend
themselves. However, after the moa had sur-
veyed them for some time, they were glad to see
it make tracks away from them, taking immense
strides as it went up the hill, and in the dusk of
the evening it was soon lost to sight. Jimmy’s
mate got very excited over it, and could not sleep
a wink the whole of the night, for fear the monster
would return and pick them up for breakfast. JH e
remembered the proverb about the “early bird”
and woke Jimmy up before day-light to get away
trom such a terrible fate as that which befel the
early worm. Jimmy, however, would not go, he
was anxious to have another glimpse of their
straDge visitor, and after some trouble he per-
suaded his mate to go with him, after breakfast,
andfollow up the trail for a bit. On getting over
to the place where it had been standing they found
a pile of its excrement sufficient to manure a
good-sized garden, and when they came to a soft
Place on the hill, they noticed quite distinctly the
of its feet in the ground. From the depth
t the marks of its toes in the earth the bird must
n ive been of great weight. They foil owed the foot
P rln ta for about two miles, but could see no sign of
yo coming to a small flat, however, they notioed
mat the tops of the cabbage-trees had been pulled
to pieces and partly eaten, so that they were pretty
r. are this was done by the Moa. Jimmy’s
t .P ar dner” was too frightened to remain longer in
~“t part of the country, and as their tucker was
sto r J% exhausted, they decided to pack up and
“tart for Queenstown, which they reached in about
Jimmy told his wonderful tale to the
men of Queenstown, and tried to get up a
company to go and capture the moa, but was not
in getting sufficient support, and the
p-'Peaitum was abandoned. After returning to
ter bury he tried to induce a party of Maoris to
sho' Vlth , , m . in search of the moa, but this attempt
e nded in failure. Jimmy was found dead, a
huL yea i rs ago ’ on the banks of the Kangitatu
HWfi C O ! e T to Sir Cracroft Wilson’s station, with
prn^ tlG Hennessy by his side. The bottle was
Mo 1!. ' ot course. Jimmy’s real name was Quin.
j n e >I ?'??i? a Ued “ Waka ” by the Maoris for his skill
handling the “ waka ” —(Maori for canoe).
t . * * *
James Richard Styles, of Reevesdale, near
Rfi U F° ne where the good fellows go. Aged
setf-io. atl j Ve r. o£ J Kent ; arrived, one of first free
tuers, in Sydney in 1817; purchased Reevesdale
over half a century ago; first man to ifotf wheat
in Argyle; four of his eighteen children Cty the
daughter of Joe Inch survive him; one of hi#
granddaughters married Ivo Bligh. The old man
Was a rare good sort, hospitable, genial, shrewd....
Mysterious disappearance since last September of
Samuel Benny, lessee of south-east Carroil run,
Gunnedah district, leaving few debts and (onsider-
able property, not yet cleared up Sam Chapman,
Newcastle's new coroner Clerk Tatham, Vic-
torian Education Department, has won £5 damages
from a debt collector who libelled him by means
of a postal card with a too suggestive inscription.
• • e
Freeman first favourite for the Regius
Professorship of Modern History, Oxon., vice
Stubbs made a bishop.... George Earle Buckle,
eldest son of Bev. P. Buckle, of Weston-super-
Mare, appointed editor of the Times, was for a
long time assistant to Ohenery. Leonard Courte-
ney declined the position... .Albany’s poor young
widow will have to struggle along on £12500 a year.
Abraham Hayward, Q.C., the brilliant essayist,
never made more than £2OO a year by his literary
efforts—Captain M’Lachlan, 3rd Reg. Vol. Inf.,
retired on his rank When General Gordon tele-
graphed from Jerusalem to the Commander-in-
Chief, asking leave to accept serviee on the Congo,
under the King of the Belgians, Cambridge replied
by telegraph, “ Secretary of State declines to
sanction your employment.” but the telegraph
clerks altered the word “ declines ” into “ de-
cides.”
It is said that a new book of De Quincey’s,
containing the confession of a haschish eater, has
been found. Everyone knows his magnificent
“ Confessions of an Opium Eater,” and will expect
something startling. He tried every drug known,
suffered the torments of hell through it, and lived,
or rather, hid himself, for many years in the direst
poverty. And s’ill he managed to last to about
seventy. Speaking of haschish, we had a descrip-
tion of its effect from a man who had tried it and
given it up. Talk of an Iliad of woes I In its use,
the sensations produced are inexpressibly delight-
ful, so long as it is taken at proper intervals; but
on giving it up, the nerves are shattered, and the
night a saturnalia of the “fantods,” compared to
which the D.T. from alcohol is frolic. The walls
spin round like a top for hours together. It’s no
use closing the eyes, for then you are spinning all
the time yourself. Chairs and tables have a mil-
lion eyes, every sound is a torture, and then
silence Itself becomes an insufferable burden, sug-
gesting some deep and deadly surrounding for
your destruction. No. We shall not try haschish
to our hash, while Nature herself produces beer
by the hogshead and threepenn’orth.
Bishop Barry fired his first bomb imme-
diately on arriving in Australia by declaring
‘•there Is one point upon which I imagine no con-
troversy can exist, and that is the necessity of
pushing forward the work of educating our
clergy. That’s so. Not one out of fifty of the
said clergy can even read fairly well, and notone
in every hundred can preach a sermon that isn’t as
dry as a lime-burner's wig and as sta'e as the eggs
of the geese that saved Imperial Borne. Oh, and
this reminds us. A few Sundays ago, Father
Hegarty (we once knew a song about Paddy
Hegarty’s breeches—but no matter) was preaching
at St. Mary's, and whilst in the full blast of his
subject he yelled, “ Yis ; I rapate what I say.
Thousans av ye loie in bed on th’ Sunday marn,
rading yeer Boolytins an’ all that kind av
rubbidge, instid av cumin’ to choorch an’
listen ter th’ discoorsis av yer pashtyers.”
Musha, now, look ad dat now. for a sweeping ad.
for what his Ilivirence is pleased to call The
Boolytin. Father Hegarty goes down on our
free list instanter. Atm when Dr. Moran comes
out we ll draw his attention to the fact that as
“thousands av his flo k loie in bed on th’ Sundy
marn radin their Boolytins,” it would materially
help to swell the collection-box revenue if heap-
pointed one of our staff as Vicar-General, or
ordered the Boolytin to be read out every
“ Sundy ” instead of Paul to the Californians. All
we stipulate for, if the former appointment is
made, is that our representative be restricted to
unfermented wine or ooloured lime-juice, and that
he is never allowed near the confessional for fear
of causing a civil war. Dnminus vobiscum. Ite
misBa est. For further particulars, see small bills.
Inventive young devils are those boys at
Bathurst. Satiated with the fun of harpooning
apples and cakes off the refreshment-shop
counters, by the aid of a nail tied to a long string,
and satiated with the innocent amusement of
stinking the Salvation Army saints out of Paradise
Hall with packets of highly offensive matter, the
Bathurst boys have hit on another little pleasantry
which seems to carry more heaps of joy to the
square yard than has ever yet been invented since
the good old days when the scriptural kings used
to jab out their war prisoner’s eyes by means of a
red hot poker. The new game of the Bathurst
burrs is called “swallow pool,” and it is played in
this way. Any number of boys catch any number
of live sparrows, and after each player has fastened
a lot of paper on his bird's tail, he sets the paper
alight,and at a given signal the lot are let go, and the
owner of the first bird that passes a given point
takes the pool. Another still more exciting and
innocent pastime is called “the scoots,” and the
way to play scoots is this. Get a mouse, or a
swallow, or aDy other weapon of the kind, fasten a
35-shooter double-cracker to its tail, light the
fuse end and then softly set it down in a crockery
shop, or a selling-off-at-cost-price emporium when
the place is well stocked with ladies. Generally
speaking, the bird, or animal, upon being released
s*ts down on its tail and begins to sadly drink in
the gay surroundings. At the first bang from the
cracker, however, the drinker is suddenly filled
with the idea that O’Donovan Rossa or Pat Ford is
about, and he accordingly darts for safety either
under a lady’s skirts or amongst a nest of cut-glass
tumblers. The next bang causes consternation,
the third raises the bottomless pit, and. by the
time the last explosion is beard, the place is strewn
with wrecks of china sets and damaged shopmen,
or rolls of prints, fallen women, yards of lace and
miles of ribbon, as the case may be, whilst there
is not a single available corner that doesn’t hold
some part of the scattered bird or mouse. Then
the gentle little Bathurst boy glides slowly away
to look for a sharp cornered tin can to fasten to a
poodle’s caudal appendage previous to letting him
sail into a mass meeting of inoffensive oitizons.


Construction of a Line of Rail-
Bungendore to Michelago
Tuesday,
27th May,
all 11 o’clock.
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Ralls.
10th February,
1885,
at U o-’clock.
F. A. WRIGHT.
THEATRE ROYAL.— Under the Management of
Messrs. Garner, A Musgbov*.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
THE SILVER KING
THE SILVER KING.
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 65.; STALLS, 3a.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 2s.
i. in im,
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage."
THEATRE ROFAL, BRISBANE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
{3T For future engagements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above, till further
notice.
JTIWA HOURS AT HAM E.”
PROTESTANT HALL.
TEN NIGHTS ONLY,
Commencing
THURSDAY, Ist MAY.
KENNEDY’S
Final Farewell.
Mr. Kennedy and family return to Scotland almost
immediately.
Change of Programme each evening. Com-
mence at 8.
Admission, 35., 2s„ 1.
R. KENNEDY, Manager.
ARTIFICIAL TEEIH
.>»- Warranted first quality
v Chargesstrictly moderatf
MARSHALL BROTHERS
;A/ DEN rISU IOGMM
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practioe of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modem apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
XXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xx
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
Easter holidays, raster
HOLIDAYS.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
during the ensuing holidays
ARE RESPECTIVELY INVITED
to call at the
NEW TAILORING DEPARTMENT
at
HORDERN BROTHERS’,
IN PITT-STREET,
and
REGISTER THEIR MEASURE
free of charge, that they may
PARTICIPATE IN THE ADVANTAGE
of being
able to order at any time one of our
UNRIVALLBD FIFTY SHILLING
SUITS made to measure.
This Department is now replete with
AN IMMENSE VARIETY
of the
CHOICEST GOODS EVER MANU-
FACTURED, samples of which,
with prices, plan for self measurement,
and tape measure, we will supply
on demand, FREE BY POST.
Therefore, if you wish to obtain
TAILOR-MADE CLOTHES
at a really moderate price, address to
or call on
HORDERN BROTHERS,
in PITT-STREET ONLY.
E
ASTER
WEEK.
EASTER HOLIDAYS.
DON’T FORGET
that
EVERYTHING
you can think of
for the
EASTER HOLIDAYS
is to be had
at
HORDERNS’,
HORDERNS’
in
PITT-STREET.
Your attention,
LADIES,
is
especially directed
OUR MANTLES.
Recollect our Address—
HORDERNS’,
PITT-STREET,
for
EASTER MANTLES,
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
li
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
xxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
IMPORTATION OP OPIUM.
GENTLEMEN holding copies of the petition
for the prohibition of the importation of
Opium into the colony of New South Wales are,
requested to forward same to the undersigned, as
it is intended to present the petition at an early
date.
QUONG TART.
Sydney Arcade, 27th March, 1884.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKCK & CO., Sole Agents,
376 George-street, Sydney.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINK of PAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 42 KING STREET,
wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS. WED
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
S^a^J7.forBRISB ANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direot (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackar
every fortnight. ’
Fleet of Steamship*:
BUNINYONG
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
konoowarra
LEtJRA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
SUNDAY AFTERNOON PROMENADE
CONCERTS.
SIR JOSEPH BANKS’ PAVILLION AND PLEA-
SURE GROUNDS, BOTANY.
Hundreds of people attend these Concerts, and
spend a pleasant afternoon.
The following talented artists will appear, next
Sunday, in popular Ballads:—
Mr. PERCY SHANNON,
Miss PAULINE BENSON,
Mr. J. GORDON,
Madame BENFRERI,
Signor BENFRERI,
Miss MARION SANDERS.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S renowned STRING
and BRASS BANDS
will also perform Solos and Classical Selections.
TEMPERANCE REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED
FREE.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2,2.30.2.40,3.20,3.40,4.
The Concert will commence at 3 30, and termin-
ate at 5, punctually,
The Semi-Grand Pianoforte from the Establish-
ment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
Look out for grand Concert next Good Friday.
[A card.]
W. H. COOPER,
340 CROWN STREET,
Late with Dr. Langston Parker,
Author of “Modern Treatment of Syphilis,” of
Queen’s Hospital, B.rmingham, England.
Patients treated by Parker’s method.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters or a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, in
secure cover, for Is. 6d., money order or N.S.W.
stamps. Te be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 G.P.0., Sydney.
iv£EX J :Bcrcri£LTE
CTXIF,
ss4=.
LEVIATHAN “ADAMASTER” COMPANY.
Capital, £lO,OOO in 20,000 Shares of 10s. each.
ABOUT 350 PRIZES: £5975 EOR STARS; AND £4025 FOR HORSES.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution:
First Horse (Winner of the “Melbourne Cup” ... £l5OO
Second Horse ... ... ... ... ... 750
Third Horse ... ... ... ... ... 375
Starters (divide) £600; Non-starters (divide) £BOO.
16 Stars of £lOO eaoh; 10 Stars of £5O each; 17 Stars of £25 eaoh; 20 Stars of £2O each; 130 Towns of £lO each.
Astronomical and Township Prizes:
Cetus
Menkar
Diphda
Phoenix
Alpherat
Betelgeaux
Southern Cress
Castor
Pollux
Regullus
Deneb
Bootes
Berenice
Altair
Andromeda
Perseus
Medusa
Mira
('assiopea
Pisoes
•Avies
Fornax
Edidanus
Camelopavelug
Tauruo
£5O
Auniga
Lemini
Canis Magon
Monceux
Cauoeu
Leo
Coma
Senpens
Cononu
aoorpio
Onaco
Pagjethauim
Lyna
Yulpeada
DelphinaB
teus
Caprioorn
Lacesta
Equieteus
Achernan
Aouneus
Adara
Albaired
Alohiba
Alcyone
Alderamjn
Algeiba
Algol
Algoreb £lO
Albera 10
Alioth 10
Alkaid 10
Alkatrops 10
Alkes 10
Almach 10
Alnilam 10
Alphasoa 10
Alphard 10
Alpbirk 10
Alruecalah 10
Alsbain 10
Alwaid 10
Apollo j 0
Aroturus 10
Avided 10
Arneby 10
Azelfafage 10
Baten Kaito 10
Bellatre 10
Benechasch 10
Cornuoopia 10
Chapb 10
Cebafra 10
Cerestes 10
Aberfeldy 10
Abdallah 10
Alberton £lO
Albtjj-t Park 10
Alexandria 10
Alfredtown 10
Allan’s Flat 10
Allan’s Ford 10
Alma 10
Alphington 10
Amherst 10
Amphitheatre 10
Anakie 10
Apollo Bay 10
Apsley 10
Ararat 10
Arcadia 10
Armstrong 10
Ascot 10
Ascot Yale 10
Athens 10
Avenal 10
Avoca 10
Axedale 10
Baarmutha 10
Bacchus Marsh 10
Bahgallah 10
Baillieston 10
Bairnsdale 10
Bald Hills 10
“ ADAMASTOR,” in thanking his subscribers for the liberal support that he has received from them for the past four years, begs to bring before their notice his Programme
for the coming MELBOURNE CUP. At the suggestion of a number of his olients. he has been induced to lessen the number of prizes, consequently making them of more value,
the smallest being £lO, as against £3 heretofore. My Head Office, for the future, will be in Albury, New South Wales.
All parties are requested to forward drafts or cheques; if cheques, exchange must be added, and in all cases postage fees. Post Office orders and cheques payable to order
will be returned, A representative Committee will be appointed. Results sent to every shareholder. Application, by Registered Letter only, addressed—
“ Care of L- X=
EDGCUMBE’S HOTEL, ALBURY N.S.W.


Robust and blooming health in Hop Bitters,
and no family can afford to be without them.
Kead.
Eposure to Drafts when Heated, and
sudden changes in the temperature of the atmos-
phere, are prolific sources of severe Colds, from
which many cases of Inflamation of the -Lungs,
Pleurisy, Asthma, and other Pulmonary Affec-
tions are developed. Should you unfortunately
contract a Cold, resort at once to Dr. Jayne’s
Expectorant, a remedy that will not only promptly
cure Coughs and Colds, but will relieve and
strengthen the Pulmonary and Bronchial Organs,
and remove all dangeroas symptoms. To be had of
all Druggists and storekeepers and Wholesale by
BlliotßrHS., Pltt-etreot, Sydney.
Bs. Od.
7s. Oil. S«. OH- Per P a!r
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 474 Waorife-
street, opposite the Central Entrance to the
has solved the problem of the season, and pro-
rides EXQUISITE GIFTS from ss. to £5:
Articles of dainty design and enduring beauty,
which will give delight at the first glance, and
'Will loaf' f) ] j fnfi an n
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
of the alchemist’s laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
it; but all have been thrown into the shade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
Oriental Gold cannot, after years of wear, bo dis-
tinguished from the costliest wares of the gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
goods of old and inferior designs are manufac-
tured of it. The discoverers have not condescended
___ to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
, , AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when oom pared with identical models of sterling
metal.
Foods are mounted with the NEW
DIAMONDS, another masterpiece of the chemists
of the nineteenth century—artificial stones which
equal th© noblest brilliants in fire and glitter, and
rival them in hardness.
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
receive their happiest conceptions. The most
graceful Parisian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
GALL AND INSPECT—EXACTLY OPPOSITE
„ _ THE MARKETS;
or, if a resident of the country, write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
and not pestered to buy, hecause we know thatno
one has ever yet viewed our goods without being
astonished and delighted with their variety, ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—and such
impression, spread among acquaintances, do us
good all the time
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At ftg. each.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Ring.
A Set or Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A Pair of Jewelled Bar-rings.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. Od. each.
Handsome Brilliant Ring.
geautiful Charm.
legant Locket.
Neeklet, with Class,
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem Ring.
Lovely Bracelet-
Collarette.
At IBs. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £1 each.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies’ Tasselled Slide Albert.
Gentlemen’s Esthetic Fob Chain, with Steel
Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladles’ Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At 452 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady’s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, In Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and assels, 16s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially aated, with Oriental Gold Albert
(Stem-winder-6s. extra.)
Lady’s SterllngSllver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 6-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, In sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or ether
charm.
At *5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— lf the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them hack. If this Is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifie
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two year*. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-stf., op. Mcuttyts
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Thbatbb Royal— “ The Silver King” p.B
Opera House—“ Strategist ” ib.
The Polks are back, and a full house met
to weloome them on Saturday night. It was at
the Opera House, and when the fun on the stage
flagged, the good-humour of those in the audi-
ence who forgot to bring umbrellas or great-coats
and didn’t know where to borrow them simmered
and bubbled over as they heard the rain dancing
on the roof and knew they had their store clothes
on The piece was the “Strategist,” so success-
fully introduced by the same company some
months ago. Nellie Howard and Jack Rutledge
(Mr and Mrs. Polk) are in love, and the customary
stumbling-blocks, in the way of objecting parents,
have to be got over before the consummation of
their happiness by marriage. Nellie has a father
(Mr. Emmett), described in the bill as “hot and
peppery,” but the description is only feebly in-
dicative of the all-round angularities of this
gentle person’s nature. There appears to be but
one redeeming point about him-when things go a
bit “ at home he goes awav to his club,
and returns late. There’s nothing strange about
his departure, but when he comes back you can
see that he has many friends, that he must have
met them all that night, one after the other, and
that he probably had a gallon or two of rum with,
each. In fact, he is miraoulously tight, speaks
with a hiccupy patois, and behaves in such an ob-
jectionable manner that your heart instinctively
warms to him.
* * *
i
And Nellie has a mother, too (Mrs. Bryer).
When Howard mere has been about a minute on,
vou think how nice, and plump, and cheery she
look?, and how pleasant she could make herself in
various ways. It then begins to dawn on you that
what she doesn’t know is scarely worth learning,
and that the Major's efforts to keep anything from
her is sure to end in humiliating failure. Corbleu!
to face that cold, grey, searching eye, while ex-
plaining how it took you so long to get past the
housemaid on the stairs, or show how that little
billet from Carrie or Sissy got into your waistcoat
pocket!
* * *
When mother and daughter are on to-
gether you feel so satisfied with their very pre-
sence—so certain that everything will be done
pleasantly—that you interest yourself in all they
do. When they go off you begin to think they’re a
bit stouter *han when here last, and then you fall
to speculate g whether the stage chairs are up to
their capaciti— whether, if they sat down with
proper emphasis, a catastrophe could be avoided,
and there is a sense of relief when you observe
that the furniture is of cast-iron; Nellie sings, too.
but the effect on Saturday night was a little marred
by the rain obligato on the roof.
* * *
As Jack Rutledge, Mr. Polk was in his
element. His enjoyment before marriage appeared
to be so great that it is not easy to see how matri-
mony could increase it. He deceives his own
father on more than one occasion—takes a series
of “rises ” out of the old man, and seems to enjoy
it. Of course, as a set-off to this, the parent can
always fall back with satisfaction on the “ rises ”
he took out of Jack during the lad’s neglected-
nose period. Oh, and there’s an Irishman named
O’Flam (Mr. Power), who gives trouble all round
by bi 3 deep-seated objection to pay “rint.”
O’Flam’s blood came to him through a long line of
monarehs, but, judging by his appearance, there
must have been various “crosses” at different
Eerieds —the last one, probably, with a steam
ammer. The nonchalant way he lifts the tail of
his coat, and expectorates in his left fist when he
has any particularly bloody business on hand is
singularly true to nature. Odaiy enough he had
no stick, and no bundle tied up in a red
handkerchief. These are serious omissions, which.
we trust Mr. Power will forgive us for noticing.l
For if there’s one thing more than another that
strikes all strangers when first they visit an Irish
city, it is seeing the women walking about in red
petticoats, and the men—or, at least, those of them
with any social position—lounging round with red
bundles hung on clothes-props over their shoul-
ders, and balanced in front with their boots
Rint,” of course, has always been these poor 1
exiles’ bete noir, and now that tithe-proctors and
swaddling preachers are becoming scarce, it is
difficult to say what the unfortunate people will
have to fall back upon for rational amusement
We mention these matters more as suggestions
than with any desire to find fault with Mr. Power's
O’Flam, which is a really creditable performance,
and shave* nature uncommonly close. Still, such
a painstaking actor won’t be above taking a hint,
and so we trust he will not forget the brogues and
bundle. If he would have the vraiscmblance com-
plete, he might bring on a pike or two. or at least
an axe, and “bowse” his nose up a little more-
just so that he can see down his nostrils. But,
then, we may be expecting too much.
• • •
There are various other people we shall
speak about some time or another. We are a
Jttle “ off ” just now, as a Hebrew- looking person
who appears as if it possessed little interest for
him whether the Botany water was cut off for two
days or stopped altogether, has been pounding at
the door for the last half-hour, asking for “ The
Bulletin man.” He doesn’t seem respectable, so
we decline to go down and remove the anvil it
gave us such trouble to fix.
* # # #
We were passing the corner of King and
Castlereagh streets on Saturday last, when our
attention was attracted by crowds of people
hurrying down the lat er. While still observing
the throng, a strong glare proceeded from the
direction they had taken. Thoroughly interested,
we seized a passing acquaintance by the skirt of
his coat to detain him. The skirt came away in
our hand. We ought to have forseen that and
caught him by the hem of his ear. He was a
Shroud reoorter, and like so many of the degener-
ate characters attached to that journal, only
bought clothes when he could pay for them.
“What’s up at the Aoademy of Music. Is it on
fire?” we enquired of another passer-by. His
reply was almost inaudible as he hurried on, but
seemed to have reference to the scarcity of water
in the Botany Dams. We caught something about
the B. dam. Disconcerted by the difficulty of obtain-,
ing information, we walked towards the centre of
attraction, and discovered that the rush was solely
due to the re-appearance of Hiscock's Federal
Minstrels, and the apparent conflagration attribu-
table to the brilliant smile with which the illus-
trious Fred, himself was illuminating the front of
the house. Inside, the audience was so tightly
packed that the fat people had to hold their breath
to keep from squeezing their neighbours to death.
We have never seen people so tight since we at-
tended the last Good Templar pic-nic.
• • •
The company have b«en reinforced since
their last visit to Sydney by the ghosts of the
Girards. Sam Keenan, Moynam, and Miss Blanche
Murray are the spectres, and those who remember
the originals in the flesh—no, the Girards never
were in the flesh—say in the gristle, will recognise
that; their ghosts can glide or wriggle in impossible
attitudes in quite an unearthly manner. The
original Girards were a sort of human eel or angle-
worm, who had joints in unexpected places and
an elasticity of frame which surpassed the india-
rubber qualities of a politician’s coscience. The
ghosts under the spell of Hisoocks, have no joints
at all, and appear as unsubstantial as a working-
man’s member’s means of subsistence. When
they come on the stage, they play such fantastic
tricks before high Heaven as make not only the
angels weep, but the gods in the gallery laugh till
they cry. We knew some time ago that Miss
Murray was going to join the Girards, because in
the play of “ No. 47 or Not Guilty,” we saw her
practising acrobatic feats on the trap-door, to the
coaching of a banana-skin.
* • *
The opening songs are all good, but some
of them are old enough to be laid away on the
shelf for future reference. Not lon* ago Mr.
Braham told us he was losing his voioe; but he
must have found it again in Tasmania, for we
never heard him sing better since we knew him.
Just after the battle of Gettysburg, President
Lincoln was informed that General Grant was in
the habit of using intoxicating liquor to excess.
“ What brand of whisky does he drink?” inquired
the President. “Find out, if you can, and I’ll
send a demijohn of the same stuff to every general
in the army. It must be good, when it wins
battles like that.” And it is a good deal so with
Mr. Braham’s voice. The more he loses it that
way, the better.
• i •
Horace Bent is, probably, the best “ nig-
ger” orator that the stage has ever produced.
Milt Barlow was good in his time, and so was
Billy Wilson. Horace seems to have a Bent of his
own which would do credit to an Austrian rock-
ing-chair,
• • •
Beaumont Reid is singing in good form,
but unless he fleshes up presently, he Will soon be
so thin that nineteen of him wouldn’t make a
shadow. Mr. Carroll is a gentleman who has had
the misfortune to swallow a leading soprano,
whom he tries to cough up in public. He has a
bass voice, and when she demands her liberty or
warbles reminiscences of the times when she was
told by people less practical than Carroll that
she was nice enough to eat, the result is
very striking. The management bills Mr.
Carroll as a double-voice vocalist in his
choice selections. This is a little mistake,
as it is the choice selection which is in Mr. Carroll.
The soprano has not swallowed him, although
what she may do if she gets out is uncertain.
Charles Lascelles used to do the double-voice busi-
ness years ago, and Mr. Carroll is in the same line.
In “ Wait till the clouds roll by. Jennie,” he
brought down the house, and nearly threw up the
sopranc. The Minstrels generally are funny
enough to briDg a smile to the face of a defunct
cat, and strong enough to make a Limburgar
cheese jealous.
** * *
The Spider (we are on the “ Silver King ”
again) is a real credit to his calling. All his jobs
are done so clean that even a Sydney bobby, with
the proverbial penetration of his class, would be
liable to be thrown off the scent. We don’t mean
this as a slur on the force. Far from it. We have
known Russian and German detectives, French
mouchards, and Scotland-yard traps. They are
good enough for a bit of plain work. But when it
comes to that delicate weighing of conflicting evi-
dences—that instinctive perception of probabili-
ties that distinguishes the true thief catcher—you
have to fall back on the Sydney [There! you’ve
gone far enough.—Ed. B.] But the Spider falls,
and (of course you’ve guessed it) through a
woman. This should be a warning to men never
to tell their wives how they get their living, or
where they spend their nights. Directly you tell
them that, you are lost. Bless you, they could no
more keep the news to themselves than the elders
of the Melbourne Presbytery could keep from
smacking their lips over the treat provided for
them by Strong’s scruples concerning inspiration.
• • •
It’s an odd thing that whenever a man
commits a crime in England and makes his way to
an American or Australian diggings, he always
drops on a “pile.” Everyone who’s had any
experience on “ new rushes ” must have notieed
this. A struggling and honest man, who only
spends three nights a week getting drunk and the
remainder in the lock-up, might fossick about for
years and never raise the colour. But the first
fair belt a convict gets at a gob of mullock with
his pick, he turns the point over a nugget. It is
so with Denver. The peculiarity in his case is that,
while most men, when they get money, try to lose
their wives and find some other person’s, he spends
most of his time in endeavouring to discover hie.
Well, after all, you don’t wonder at it— considering
that Annie Mayor is the ol* woman.
• • •
Of Jaikes we’ve alreadv spoken. He is
one of those irrepressible flunkeys who, once they
get a footing in a family—like the late John B.—
never leave it except to carry the master home
from his club, or lift the kids over gutters in
coming from school. Whether J.B. wqyld have
stuck to his employers if they went down in the
world, as old Jaikes froze to the Denvers, is a
question which we will not insult the memory of
that wide-awake servitor by essaying to guess.
The chances are that long before his Royal em-
ployers got down to tripe and onions, the faithful
gillie would be away in his native glen, running
an illicit still or tossing the caber for drinks.
• • •
We like Elijah Coombe—partly because of
his Christian name, and partly because of his pro-
fession—a marine store dealer. We’ve had plenty
of dealings before now with men following this
lucrative business, and were always treated with
consideration—especially if the lead had been
cleared off the roofs of some neighbouring houses
the night before, and we had most of it in a hand-
cart. Nothing comes amiss to them, and they sel-
dom ask questions. If you haven’t bottles or
horns to trade, they aren’t above doing a line in
linch-pins, damaged corrugated iron, twisted
horse-shoes, hoe-handles, kitchen utensils, bones,
turn-pike gates, or any of the worn out odds and
ends that mark a high state of material prosperity.
And they are never inquisitive. It is there they
>-ave the “bulge” on other tradesmen. They
first give you your money—mostly in dirty cop-
pers—and part the best of friends, sometimes
even hinting where some more “marine stores”
are to be obtained without the asking—if the back
gate happens to be open and you are any good at
poisoning dogs. Yes I we like marine-store dealers
and cabmen.
• • ■
Aijd this reminds us that there is a cab-
man (Empson) in the piece. Of course he has
I about as much to do with it as the “tfpsy pas-
senger ” of Leston, but he does it in such a way
that you feel you would like to travel with him
all day, offer him six-pence towards midnight, and
then, when he said sarcastically that you were
“no gentleman,” smash his head in with a shovel
you’d brought with you on starting. It is when
we think of the fortunes we’ve squandered for
fear a frowsy, unkempt, red - belcher - necktied
pirate sitting on a little box behind a spavined
horse, should say we wore “ no gentleman ” that
the love wo bear the whole tribe comes home to us.
** * #
This is the quiet, unassuming style in
which those giddy old girly and boyly antediluvian
friends of ours, the Loftus Troupe, recently adver-
tised their return, after a 5-years’ absence, to their
native heath in ’Frisco. Storm symphony, music
by the great menagerie band: —“ Wrested from the
Typhoon and Hurricane Lashed Ocean —Battled
for in the Wilds of Africa—Volcanic Eruptions,
Earthquakes, the Deadly Fevers of the Jungle, the
Fatal Miasma of the Lagoon—all, all defied for
Honorable Success.” That’s em. “What, hoi
serlave! Hie thee now to the sylvan caves and
grottoes near, and bring hither quick the tender
cowheel and the glittering goblet filled to the brim
with the sparkling nectar of Olympus.” [Behind
th“ scenes] “and boy; tell ’em not to pull it with
quite so much shirt collar. Pay up on Monday
sure. Genius will either boom or ‘ bust.’ ”
Political
Points
The Camden Times says the land difficulty
is “the ignusfatus of the present, as it has been of
all preceding administrations.” What ignusfatus
may mean, unless it be Cowpastures lingo for “ a
fat iguana”, we are at a loss to conceive.
The Auckland Free Lance opines that
Sir Geosge Grev’s assumption of the blue ribbon
along with the Maori king was the neatest political
move he has made for sometime, the “temper-
ance tide being in full flood in New Zealand.
Ministers may growl and growl and growl
about -waste of time over the estimates; but until
the Civil Service is reformed and placed on a
practical economical and business-like basis,discus-
sion when the deparmental notes are introduced,
even if an evil, is undoubtedly a necessary one.
Significant this.— Afew weeks age a letter
was received at Constantinople stating a plot was
on foot to upend the Sultan and, that this playful
little bit of pleasantry was to be supporjga by
Kadri Pasha with the Adrianople army. Now. we
learn that the Jocular Mr. Kadri has been "re-
moved.” Time is money in Turkey, and therefore
Trial by Jury has to bo dispensed with.
The Yass Courier, referring to James
Watson’s candiditure for Gundagal, observes
“ Bhould the new trial that Mr. Watson has moved
for in that very singular case about the profit, on a
Government contract go in his favour, the shadow
will be lifted off his fair fa t>e : but until the case
in question is decided, any constituency that re-
turned him to Parliament would be lacking in its
duty alike to itself and the country at large.”
Very much, quite so !
Here is a strong confirmation of the theory-
put forward in “ Progress and Poverty.” It is
affirmed that the Victorian banks are pushing to
extremity the small selectors who are under their
thumb, with the view of aiding the larger class of
landholders in buying and stocking operation. By
thus pushing the smaller fry, the "boss” owners
oan buy dirt cheap, and the banks obtain what
they look upon as more profitable constituents.
What could be more conclusive of the evil and
wrong resulting from monopoly of land than
this ? Perhaps Granny will explain.
The Clutha (N.Z.) Leader says:— "The
present Atkinson Throne is showing signs of totter-
ing. and the election looms ahead. Stout has most
assiduously worked up his popularity to the near-
ly culminating point, and the want-of-confldenco
motion, which wili surely be proposed in the new
Parliament, will put all things *by the board.’ An
elective Governor will be proposed (by whom de-
poneth sayeth not), and Robert Stout will rule the
lists and carry all before him. Viola tout.” We
thinks, the Clutha scribe should have written, in
such a cerrection, “ Viola ( S)tout .”
The Western Grazier, which couldn’t to
save its life express the meaning of “ no” under a
sentence of at least a dozen words, thus periphrasti-
cally tells Quin, M.P., that he’s a political duffer:—
“While we acknowledge with satisfied pleasure
the zeal, courtesy and alacrity with which Mr.
Quin has figured as a champion of the local wants
Of this town and district at head quarters, we can
scarcely resist the conclusion that his moral judg-
ment has been as injuriously warped as his politi-
cal stratagems have been out-manoeuvred by the
adroit skill of the more practised minds with
which he has had to grapple.”
The “ Vagabond,” in a contribution to the
Wentworth Advocate, says inter alia:— “Sir
George Des Vceux, however, is only backing up
Sir Arthur Gordon’s calumnies, and so will curry
favour with Mr. Gladstone, who supports Gordon,
as being the son of his (Gladstone’s) early patron,
the Earl of Aberdeen.’* Aberdeen can certainly
not be called Gladstone’s early patron. The G.O-M.
was first nominated to office (that of Under-Secre-
tary for the Colonies) by Peel, in 1836. In 1841 ho
was appointed (again by Peel) Vice-President of
the Board of Trade and Master of the Mint. In
1848 he became President of the Board of Jrade,
and in 1846 Secretary for the Colonies, still under
Peel, Aberdeen, from 1841, being one of his col-
leagues, most decidedly not in any sense his
“ patron.” In the Aberdeen Cabinet ( 52-’55) it was
Gladstone and “ Pam ” who were i n reality the
“patrons,” since without them it couldn’t have
held together for a day.
Once in a way Granny utters words of
wisdom. She was quite right when she remarked:
—“ It is not natural, and it is not reasonable, and
it is not right, that the word of the young Earl
Rosebery, who has no official position, and but
very few months of oolonial experience, should
have more weight in the Cabinet and Parliament
of England than the combined representations of
the Agents-General of all the colonies. An official
representative of any colony should have infinite-
ly more weight in speaking of the affairs of that
colony than the most distinguished peer of
England who had simply made a temporary stay
in the colony for his own pleasure or advantage.
But is Granny prepared tp see her very proper
views on this matter carried out to their legist-
mate conclusion—the conferring of pleni-potential
authority upon the Agent-General, including the
disoretionary power of presenting an ultimatum ?
On the “ Recidiviste” and “Annexation”
questions, we oonsider the Colonial Office has
acted far more wisely than the “combined”
Australias; still the Australias would as a general
rule stand a far better chance of not being snubb'-d
by Downing-street were they officially on the
footing of independent states.
The Rabbit Destruction business is being
desperately mismanaged by offlealdom if half the
stories one hears about it are true. Here’s a growl
by the Wentworth Advocate:— An inspector
after giving notice to the owners of a certain
station not many hundreds of miles from Went-
worth, that a certain number of men were re-
quired, took out a party of rabbiters and located
them on the spot where their services were re-
quired. They remained there some three weeks,
during which time one of the party was employed
every day in driving to and fro bringing fresh
beef. For three weeks the party must have
thoroughly enjoyed their outing ; but when the
owners at length arrived, it suddenly dawned upon
them that it would be cheaper bv many degrees to
get rid of the Government men and do the work—
if work was to be done—themselves ; they accord-
ingly communicated to the inspector their willing-
ness to pay off the Government men, and put on
whatever number the Inspector might think
proper. The inspector accepted their petition,
aad in return handed them a bill representing the
cost of his men’s visit to the station; but he ab-
solutely refused to inform the owners as to the
items which helped to form the grand total of £9O.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Randwick Races .. .April 14,16,18.19.
Public Ball (new Masonic Hall) April 25.
8.A.A.C. Sports Way 3.
flureka Plain and Fancy Ball Way 0.
Suhprban Bicwcle Club Sports — ....May ip.
Asmeid A-A.C. SnoHts- ...May 10,
tfcrtfa m&B Rowing Club Ball (MlthfldtCle). ,TObe 5,


PEPPER AND SALT.
The Melbourne Herald has been waxing
somewhat eloquent in praise of the Harmy of late,
and gave a very respectful account of a wedding
ceremony between Deputy-Major Thurman and
Captain Eliza Houghton. We say “respectful
account,” because some papers are wont to Jeer at
the Harmy and their doings. However, in this
particular instance, the Herald went rather out
of its way to discover beauties in the oooentricities
of its protiges. A Mrs. Oxby, it seems, sang a sort
of wedding hymn, and (remarks the Herbld) 44 as
showing that puritanical demurecess is thoroughly
eschewed by the Salvationists, it may be men-
tioned that when Mrs. Oxby came to the words, * I
was weak, I am strong.’ her husband, who was on
the platform, jumped up and interjected. 4 Yes 4
e ie was weak before she was married ’—a remark
which was greeted with laughter by those who
oa , r , d ’k Now, if it was necessary to convince
us that puritanical demureness is thoroughly
eschewed” by the “soldiers” and “lasses,” the
Herald has succeeded in its endeavour. But
nobody who has enjoyed the privilege of witness-
ing the private little gambols of the “saved”
wanted convincing. There’s nothing puritanical
about the “ lasses ” giving playful digs in the ribs
to the 4 soldiers 4 ’ when “Major U&iat lookin’,”
A celebrated metaphysician has deolared
that “Instinct is always right; reason often
wrong.” This may be true in general, but the
other day, up in Armidale, there was a bull which
got badly fooled by following the dictates of
instinct. It has been drier than a Presbyterian
sermon up at Armidale lately and the cattle have
suffered considerably for want of water. On the
oocasion of which we write, a local magnate was
Just sitting down to dinner when the bull of
which we warble walked in at the front door and
“mooed” for a drink. The magnate kept a bar,
but as the bull didn’t have the necessary sixpence,
the proprietor told him that he already had two
“horns” that morning, and that if he wanted any
more he would get the whole bar. And he got it,
right between the horns, where it would do the
most good; but it bent the poker fearfully. That
bull had instinct, but still he was wrong. Had he
possessed reason he probably could hare more
readily distinguished the difference between a
hotel Ibar and a bar of iron.
* * •
THE SLEEPING “CUPID.”
LBy a barren Tennyson.]
He sleeps: his breathings are not heard
On the thronged benches far in front;
His locks ambrosial are not stirred,
have faintly, by low stertorous grunt.
H £.fT, e P B: on either band the roar
Of M.P. s differing in their views;
He sleeps—nor votes-but still doth snore:
A perfect lorm in perfect snooze.
IN THE PRESS GALLERY.
PARLIAMENT HOUSE.
Hear the speeches, dull and drear!
And, a sight to make you weep,
Lo, the poor reporters here,
Who awake can hardly keep!
How they—through the weary night
While the slow hours onward creep—
Envy those for whom they write I
Working to make others sleep;
* * *
The Tamworth Observer walks into the
Tamworth News in a leader of considerable
length and iaborious indignation ; and a party
signing S. Joseph—which appears to be the name
of the editor of the NEws-has cut out the article,
and invites us to “date Hooke so that I can copy
it. We are obliged to Mr. Josephs for his kind
opinion of us, and had he but emphasized it by
enclosing £5 as a bribe to induce us to undertake
the bit of literary bravo-ism he offers us, we
should have taken the troublo to go all the way up
to Tamworth to wrap his nose in the flimsy, so as
to protect our fingers while we tweaked the
feature. It would have been nearly the same as
slating Hooke ” to pull a Hooko nose,
• • •
COFFEE-PALACE WIT.
“ that, chap across the room there-
„ He that s just about to start ?”
here)” the tenor-singer.”
Humph, the hoarse before the carte!
There seems to be no limit to the power of
the Bench. James Simpson was brought before
the magistrates of Brunswick (Vic.), the other day,
and just because he admitted to a “drunk,” the
indignant chairman “ordered” him to take the
blue ribbon out of his coat, as he was “sailing
under fal°e colours.” The bare notion of a man
renouncing the blue ribbon on account of an
occasional “ tear ” is perfectly absurd. Three-
fourths of the little bits of blue are stained with
whisky.—
That’s a very simple notion—
Quite ridiculous, we think—
That a man who wears the ribbon
Must debar himself of “ drink.”
If that rule were universal,
Dear! how very, very few
Would walk about rejoicing
In the little “ bit of blue.”
* * *
In this ultra-scientiflo age, it cannot be
looked upon as very wonderful when some new
discoveries are made, and the latest in that line bas
been bruited up by an enterprising and scientific
American. He has found out that for many years
—we might say centuries —mankind, and, for the
matter of that, womankind, have been carrying
out a grave mistake by walking erect upon their
hind-legs when a beneficent and all-wise Provi-
t ence had furnished them with the means of loco-
motion on all fours. He points out in the dearest
The Wonders of Science.
Remarkable feats of flash young Fitz-
Jones; and admiration of the Smiths.
Unhappy result of this combination of
flashness and appreciation.
Fright! \\l sequel. Smith junior can scarcely believe his eyes.
Consternation of Mr. and
Mrs. Fitz-Jones.


possible manner (to him) that man is a quadruped,
a horizontal, not a vertical, engine, and advances
many subtle arguments In support of his theory.
One is that the heart being the centre of the
human system, the blood which flows through that
organ is regulated by valves which act perfectly
when man is on all fours, but with several hin-
drances, which produce dire disease when he as-
sumes the perpindicular. And the learned Yankee
goes on to cite the examples of the monkey,
hear, and kangarooo in support of his hy-
pothesis. Nature, he says, Intended that
the viscera should be supported by the thorax and
ribs, but her intention is not carried out in the
upright person. This is a sad discovery Indeed*
and one that should receive Immediate attention*
The viscera does, undoubtedly, need support, and
so far nature has not produced anything more
satisfying than the waist-band of the trousers,
which, at best, must be looked upon as a very «H®
buttress for the lungs, heart, stomach, liver, and
trousers pocket of the average able-bodied human.
The only thing that remains now is a return to tha
quadrupedal system to ensure an immunity from
all “the ills that flesh is heir to.” We needn’t go
to the agile monkey, the affectionate and strong-
limbed bear, or the sportive kangaroo, to find
living examples of the advantages of going on all
ours. Look at snme of our members of Parliament 1
They attain a very healthy position by grovel-
ling, and moral quadrupedal looomotion.
And our C.M.G.’s I No one will be bold
enough to assert that several of them
have not acquired their doubtful distinction
by the practical application of the scientific Ameri-
can’stheory. But why multiply examples? Byjudi-
cious crawling an average man may become a
N.S.W. Libel Court Judge.
THE PRINCE.
There lived a well-bred Royal Duke, and he
Has paid the debt which all of us must pay;
Though king or peasant, lord or clown we be,
Tis vain to strive Death’s dread approach to stay
And yet, forsooth, would some folks make it seem
As though none ever died before, or since.
So loud their wailings—or, maybe, they deem
Death doubly awful when he calls a Prince!
Let sycophants seek comfort in such rant—
Creatures who to thefGolden Calf must ever bend;
Let men denounce all vile, revolting cant,
And mingle loyal sympathy with common seme.
A fellow-Englishman has run his earthly race,
And in the spring *f life is safe in goal;
Then waste no words on “ rank” or “ lofty place,”
But say, “ His life was pure-God rest his soull”
Ths of the Victorian “ bobby ” is
a dangaraas article to trifle with, as five young
Melbourne etttaens have discovered to their cost.
The other Sunday, it appears, Constable Paice and
Constable Jaekson were—to quote their own words
te the Beneh— ** looking after the hotels In general
for Sunday trading.” Such activity and intelli-
gence could net ge, for long, unrewarded, and
presently * they had reason to believe trading was
going on" at the Brunswick Hotel. But now
eomes the distressing part of the story, “ the five
defendants were standing outside, and on the ap-
proach of the polioe retired to a lane at the back
of the hotel, made grimaces, laughed, and other-
wise prevented the police from going into the
hotel.” Now it was quite bad enough for the bold
and Intreped “ bobbies ” to be obstructed in their
duties by the “ grimaces ” of these hardened
Criminals, but the matter was made a thousand
times worse, by the fact that “ a number of people
were about, whose attention was drawn to the
manner in which the police were being ridiculed.”
And finally, to put the finishing touch on this
blood-curdling “case,” Constable Jackson ex-
plained that the five criminals were “skittering.”
Being unable to afford the Bench any precise
deflation of the meaning of this word, the worthy
magistrates assumed, apparently, that it consti-
tuted a serious charge, and fined each of the
“ skitterers.” This reminds us, somewhat, of W.
J. Florence, the American actor, In “The Mighty
Dollar.” Florence, as the naughty old senator,
has a “ down ” on a newspaper writer, for having
referred to him as “a do-do.” “I don’t know
what a “ do-do ” Is,” says the senator, “ but I guess
It’s something nasty.” In the same way, “ skitter-
ing” sounded bad.
’Tisn’t often that we run across anything
more funerally puzzling, in the form of “ obitu-
ary verse,” than the following, taken from the
Melbourne Age :
“ Thou tookest him, I know thou hast,
Safe lodged with Thee, my treasure,
And therefore, though my tears flow fast,
I give him Thee with pleasure.”
We don’t wish to make unfavourable comment
upon the first line, because grief is gener-
ally ungrammatical (though, certainly, as the
“treasure” has been dead two years, and this
ooetical notice was merely a "refresher,” there
has been time to correct its little errors), but we
do desire to draw particular attention to the un-
se 1 fish ness of the “gift.”
♦ * *
THE GOOD YOUNG MAN THAT DIED.
A man in Goulburn, wlxo committed suicide
the other day, gave as his reason that he was too
honest to succeed in business. Things are coming
to a pretty pass when men have either to turn
rogues or corpses. It isn’t often that we publish
epitaphs, but our “ devil,” who was deeply affected
when he read of this uuhappy incident, has sub-
mitted the following, which we think is good
enough for publication:—
AN HONEST MAN.
Here lies a man of some renown
(This really is no hoax),
Who could not live in Goulburn town
So wicked were the folks.
He kept his eye on heaven fixed,
And dealt with honest hand;
But all his bloomin’ neighbours mixed
Their sugar up with sand.
So round his neck he tied a oord
That from the ceiling swung,
Upset the chair without a word,
And straightway be was hung.
And now his neighbours chuckle rude
When no one else is nigh:
“ To live,” they say, “ he was too good,
But we’re too ‘ cute ’ to die.”
But there’s a time a-coming on—
A time of sore regret—
When they’ll repent what they have done,
And struggle to forget.
When Sstan gets them well in hand,
You’ll hear ’em bleat like goats.
As streams of blazing, red-hot sand
He forces down their throats.
Then this poor man who had to die
Because they gave false weight,
Will perch upon the rainbow high
And take his sugar ‘‘straight.”
The Wonders of Science.
‘‘Extraordinary case,” said the
Doctor. “Lucky it was me you
called for.”
“ Serious case. I s m—a—a — almost
puzzled.”
“ I have it!”
For extraordinary ills, heroic remedies.
“ The effect,” said the Doctor, has ex-
ceeded my best hopes. Quite a isedmn-
dancy of neck.”
“But look now! A simple knot!
Here you are. Escapes with a mere
wry neck.”
“ Bless you ! Our Preserver !”


HIS SPECIALITIES.
Slog the tea-tray with the shoebrush! let a solemn
requiem swell,
For the late lamented gillie, now in heaven or—
who oan tell ?
Hit the wash-tub with the coal-scoop, that it
plainly may be seen
Australasia mourns in concert with a mourning-
widowed Queen 1
Let a blubbering public sob for him, now gone,
who stood supreme
in a world of poor hired labour as the gillie of a
dream 1
While a Sovereign tells with anguish of her by-
gone serving-man,
Drag across the kitchen-floor the sad resonant
frying-pan 1
Oh, so faithful and devoted I When his noble
Empress-Queen
(Fling the knife-b®ard at the can long since devoid
of kerosene!)
Got o’erthrown, this helpful gillie oped his frighted
gills to roar
“ Lord Almighty I who did ever see the like of this
before ? ”
Oh, so brave and uncomplaining 1 When his leg,
behind the knee,
Became chafed—ride the Queen’s English of Great
Britain’s Majesty—
Not a groan escaped the hero: to more suffering
he was proof
(At this point let mournful brickbats sound on
every iron roof).
Oh, so thoughtful and contriving 1 When the Fates
produced the shroud
That was to lit the corpse of her “ dear Reverend
Macleod,”
He came in (rake up the pot-bells 1) and, in falter-
ing accents said,
Macleod was ill—in fact, they were afraid that he
was dead 1
Oh, so kind and sympathetic! When Sir Thomas
Biddulph “ caved ”
(Though his body’s in the grave, dear friends,
thank Heaven, his soul is saved),
The honest gillie’s heart was touched—we quote
the Royal text—
(Turn on the patent-saw-fller!)—" poor Brown was
really vexed.”
What a splendour of achievement—what a record
left to stand-
Wet with tears, and fitly written by the Queen of
England’s hand I
Let accordions vie with foghorns, while a nation's
voices drown
All acoompaniment, wailing for the late lamented
Brown!
* * *
A Mrs. Smith, residing near Woodhouselee,
dreamed some time ago that she had drawn a prize
in the late land art-union, held at Goulbum. Her
husband refused to purchase her any tickets, but
she was so haunted by the dream, that she started
out a-foot and walked some miles to catch the
Goulburn coach. After purchasing a tioket, she
returned home, and a few days later was apprised
of the fact that she had drawn a lucky number
the prize being an allotment of land in Goulburn,
valued at £l2O. Now Mr. Smith warbles: “It Was
a Dream,” Mrs. Smith goes about the house, sing-
ing : “ Oh, Let Mo Dream Again,” and the children
sit on the fence and come in with the resrain;
“Then Sweetly Dream, Dream On, Dream On,”
&o. In fact, they are having a very dreamy time
of it, and quite agree with Hamlet that there are
more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than
are droamt of in our philosophy.” But dreams
are not always so reliable. We know a Yankee
who droamed, one night, that he saw a white horse
The next morning, upon going into the paddock,'
he found his favourite haok lying dead. A week
or two later he tried the same di earn on his mother-
in-law, but it didn’t work worth a cent.
THE DOLMAN.
There waa a lady, fat and fair,
And forty, if a day;
She waa a widow, rich and rare—
Too rare, indeed, are they.
She took a youth with curly hair.
Unheeding social sneers.
And married him, to comfort her
In her declining years.
She had a footman, giant-size,
Who had a dwarfish wit—
Though with a gift of looking wise
When he behind would sit.
Once from her carriage she got out
To go into a shop;
Her curly spouse was in a pout,
So.inside he did stop.
Then to the footman did she turn—
She noticed she had on
jj 0 _ W ho these drapers’ terms can learn ?
“ Hand me my dolman, John!”
The giant footman bows, and leers,
And grips then by the scruff
Her husband, lands him—“Bhure, ma’am,
here’s
Yer doll-man, thruc enough! ”
* * *
Mr. Service was delivered of a truly high-
class idea when he instructed the Government
Printer to prepare large mourning cards for the
State Schools (Vic.J: “In memory of the good
Prince Leopold, youngest son of our beloved Queen
—born 7th April, 1853; died 38th March, 1884.”
This is what the Melbourne D.T. terms “ a happy
means of impressing upon the minds of the child-
ren of the colony the worth and lamented death of
the Prince.” So it is—it’s intensely “ happy.” We
presume that any naughty little boy or girl, who
doesn’t get on with his or her arithmetic, will be
stuck in front of the card and " impressed ” with
the Prince’s “ lamented death,” as a gentle warn-
ing. And, in the course of time, too, we presume,
that [other cards will require to be hung up on
those walls. The decease of some more “ good ”
for they can’t make invidious distinctions) Princes
and Princesses will be commemorated in the same
way, and then what a thoroughly cheerful aspect
the Victorian State Schools will present. The
children will enjoy the advantages of being edu-
cated in a cemetery.
| Woe, Woe, everlasting woe is about to
tumble on the land for the days when honest men
can earn a respectable livelihood by sawing their
I boats in two just before a race, dosing a favourite
the night before a Melbourne Cup, or working a
go-as-you-please cross, are speedily drawing to an
end, for we have just read, “ it has been decided to
present a testimonial to the Rev. J. Evans for the
stand which he took in the late debates against
Mr. Selby, the free-thought lecturer. The Baptist
Church has increased his stipend, and subscribed
£lO toward the object in view.” Of course the
Evans-Selby wrestling match was all fair and
square, but that tenner is the thin edge of the
wedge which sooner or later must bring all those
exceedingly edifying theological contests to the
level of a readied-up cock-fight. The next we’ll
hear, will bo something in this line. “The
Reverend Simon Bar-Jona Brown is open to
knock Voltaire'Smith out in three rounds on the
subject of the Bible v. Geology, or he will wrestle
any other clergyman his weight, catch-as-catch-
caD, on the Transubstantiation theory. Man and
money at the Angel’s Head, Paternoster Road-
Winner to take three-fourths of the gate money.’.
Tfiat will be bad enough for a time, but, facilis
descensus A.vemi, and the next crash will come
in this shape. “ Another of these disgraceful
swindles which are rapidly bringing the noble
pastime of theological discussion into disrepute
took place at the Howler’s Hall, on Sunday last.
It appears that the Rev. Nicodemus Paul, and the
well - known Preethinker, Tom Paine, were
matched to fight out the question: “Is there
a Hell, and how much of it?” and after
the recent doing Paine gave the parson on
the same subject, the odds were freely laid at 5
to lon the “ thinker.” Before three rounds were
fought, it was evident to all that the whole affair
was simply a put-up job to secure and whack the
gate money, and at the end of the seventh round,
Paine went down on both knees, and not only
admitted there was a hell, but also declared that
everyone who didn’t patronise his opponent’s pul-
pit would stew in their own grease for all eternity,
in the hottest regions of it. Cries of “swindle,”
“lynch them,” “give us back our money,” &c.»
were yelled from every side, and finally the
combatants were removed by the polioe.
while the audience broke up all the seats, set
fire to the pulpit, broke the choir harmo-
nium over the player’s head, and offered £lOO
reward to anyone who would show them the near-
est road to the brimstone lake so that they could
haul the ticket-takers and business managers
along and duck them up to their gory heels in it.
A more disgraceful exhibition has never been
witnessed here, and in the interest of this noble
sport we sincerely trust we will never look upon
the like again. In consequence of the above riot,
the match between Episcopalian Rawbottom, and
Abner Bung, champion of the Soft-shell Baptists,
to decide the question of “ How many Angels can
dance at one time on the point of a cambric
needle ” is postponed till further notice.”
BRIEF MENTION.
Clothes dispute.—A glove contest.
Afflicted fabrication.—A blasted lie.
A noisy solitude.—A howling desert.
Peripatetio light.—A walking match.
A counter attraction : A bar luncheon.
People buried at sea dig their own graves.
A pair of suspenders.—Marwood and Nosey
Bob.
Gladstone had to pick a Loch for the Vic-
torians.
An old story.—The ground floor of the
Coloseum.
In the ladder of fame the strongest rungs
are of brass.
Hanlan is at home in his boat, but ashore
he is overbored.
Caution to bathers: Don’t bathe in break-
ers. It’s a great “ suck in.”
The only ancient philosopher the olergy
introduce into their services—Plato.
And pray why not run the hours up to 24
o'clock and by so doing get rid of the a,m. and
p.m-ing nuisance ?
Goethe died of mortification. When he
asked for “ more light ” the tow-headed attendant
brought him an extra candle.
Trains run so slow up North that a child
born at one terminus is fit to be engaged as a
newsboy by the time he is steamed up to the plat-
form at the other end.
A contemporary naively states that “ a
preventive of typhoid fever is to drink boiling
water.” This is obviously true. No person will
die of typhoid fever who takes a real hearty
draught of this preventive.
The ex-Rev. Osborne means to lecture
sometime this month at Newcastle on—“ Twenty
years in the Wesleyan Methodist Church,” in aid
of the local foot-ball club. We presume he intends
a “ drop kick ” at Wesleyanism.
Of course you have all read of the mer-
chant who went all the way to Paris to see Sarah
Bernhardt? Well, this suggests to us that we
should like to know where Maggie Oliver is now.
Wo would go much farther than Paris to sae her—
tomb.
lllawarra Stuart, replying to Mudgee Tay-
lor touching the recent oyster seizures, admits
that one-half the line imposed went to the in-
former, and the other half to the consolidated
revenue. But, with Machiavellian cunning, he
refrained from stating who got the oysters.
What next ? The Bathurst Bench have
sent up a man for three days for "indecently ” ex-
hibiting the nude body of a two-headed female
infant preserved in spirits. Where does the in-
decency come in? Ha! we forgot! Of course, it
comes in—in the prudishness of the Bathurst
beaks!
The dailies are muoh exercised in what
answers for their mind over the man who lived for
years with a bullet in his brain. They seem to
consider it an almost miraculous case, oblivious
of the so utterly obvious fact that for the human
brain there is nothing so vivifying and refreshing
as a Bullet-in.
Sewage farms have been made to pay.
Bven when they didn’t return a direct profit they
make one indirectly by the utilization of matter
which otherwise would go to swell the amount of
river and ocean frontage pollution. If there is to be
a site or sites for noxious trades why not in connec-
tion therewith a sewage farm or farms ?
Speaking of the Duke of Albany’s death,
a Melbourne paper says: “ The deceased Prince
was in a measure connected with the interests of
Melbourne, since the Working-men’s College, to
be erected at the expense mainly of the Hon. - P.
Ormond, M.L.C., was to have been named after
him.” What a capital notion that is. On that
principle, the “ interests ” of our good friends the
Jesuits are bound up with those of the Saviour of
mankind.
Sir Henry Parkes once visited tbe Public
School at Parkes, and, courteous like, asked Ques-
tions in grammar with the following result: —Sir
H.: “Now, then, my children, what part of speech
is your town.” Chorus : “A noun, sir.” Sir H.:
“ Why a noun ?” General Chorus : “ Because a
noun is the name of a person, place, or thing.”
A New Zealand apiarian has received a
consignment of humble bees from England. The
object is to more successfully fertilise red clover.
We don’t know whether the bees are any account
for raising clover, but we do know that one of
them will raise a man who sits down on it at a
lapider rate than almost any other agency in use.
It doesn’t do to meddle’* with suicides in
Germany. A guest at a-hotel there cut down a
waiter who had just nearly hung out his breath.
Now the waiter sues his preserver for “undue
interference,” and for “ damages for cutting a
new rope.” If we saw even John Davies sus-
pended in Germany, we wouldn’t cut him down
after this.
The Auckland Free Lance, in speaking
of the late Under-Secretary Wakefield says:—
“Although a staunch temperance advocate, yet
he was of a genial, kindly disposition.” That
“ although ” is devilish neat; suggestive, more-
over, of the melancholy rule (to which Wakefield
seems to have been the exception) that staunch
“ temperance ” men are as sour as they are
narrow.
Lively times out West: One Bathurst ex-
change says “ We haven’t water enough to float a
postage stamp.” Another sorrowfully adds, “Even
if we had the water, we would find it extremely
difficult to raise the stamp.” But the Mark Tapley
who runs the religious paper cheerfully chips in
and asks, “Who wants water when he can get
whisky, and who wants a stamp when he’s good on
the slate at Tattersalls ?” There’s a silver lining
to every cloud.
The Victorian Government railway system
—or want of system—has succeeded in swelling
the “ great majority ’ once again. What makes
the last calamity more appalling is the fact that
two legislators were in the damaged passenger
train—but escaped uninjured. The drivers of the
colliding engines have both succumbed to their
injuries, the noble locomotives themselves are
hopelessly damaged, and yet the legislators
escaped uninjured. Such is the irony of fate.
Thomas, of Randwick, should not have
been J.P.-ed, not because there is anything par-
ticularly inconsistent in tho superintendent of an
asylum being on the commission of the peace,
simply because the retention of Thomas in his
superintendentahip, since those revelations about
his treatment of some of the boys in 1879, has been
a mistake. Should Lome or Connaught succeed
Loftus, and a Master of the “ Horse ’ be required
for the vice-regal household, Thomas would fill
the bill excellently.
Mr. R. 8. Gregory (whose sad fate we
lamented in a recent number), the gentleman that
left his clothes and a farewell poem at the bottom
of a small boat on Hobson’s Bay, may not, after
all, have sought the watery grave with which he
was credited. R.S.G. is “wanted,” to tell the
truth, on a charge of fraud, and, as he’s a brother
of J. G. Gregory, the Horsham J.P. who is now
sharing the seclusion of some he formerly sen-
tenced, it’s just on the cards that there’s little in
it. Genius so often runs in families.
Bice to be hanged; Williams’s death
sentence to be commuted to “life,” first three
years in irons plus three floggings. Both com-
mitted a capital offence ; Bice, a murdsr, in
drunken rage and jealousy ; Williams, a rape, in
the foulest, unmanliest, most revolting way : yet
the gallows is for the better man of the two,
rather is for the man, the other, all-brute, getting
off with “life,” which means, in reality, some ten
years’ imprisonment, with the chance of spending
at least half that time in a “ billet.”
“It seems somewhat strange,” says the
Natal Times, “that bullock waggons should be
able to successfully compete with the locomotive.
Such, however, seems to be the fact here, and the
slow, lumbering ox has already decreased the rail-
road revenue to the extent of £3000.” Doesn’t
seem so strange over here. Compared with some
of our “slowcomotives,” a team or bullocks would
be Martini-Henry to a baked oyster; and a com-
pany we believe, is now being floated to run the
Parramatta night trains off the road by means of a
hearse drawn by six turtles.
Another Waterloo veteran died in the
Bourke Hospital the other day. Judging from the
number of survivors of Waterloo, even in this
colony, we come to the conclusion that it must
have been a very harmless battle. Which proves
that the best way to attain a green old age is to go
into the tented field. Most of the English com-
batants who were engaged in the great victory
seem to have died of decrepitude and drink. But
when we say most, we are wrong : Most are prob-
ably liviDg, and may be expected to die sometime
about the end of next century.
Bankers’ olerks appear to be quite a “ re-
kerky ” lot up at Wide Bay. A sailor went into
the Union there lately to Gash a cheque, and being
totally “ mashed ” by the “ Muckalone ” politeness
of the clerks, he sallied to a hotel and re-entered
the bank with a tray loaded with liquor. Just as
the clerks were smacking their expectant lips,
Jack lurched to leeward, and knocked the whole
cargo overboard. Then a policeman came and
introduced Jack to the “jug” for his disorderly
treatment of the glasses. Bank employes are evi-
dently allowed a very wide margin in Wide Bay.
Either our Sovereign Lady or someone else
will trot into trouble shortly. Speaking of Prince
Leopold’s death, the Melbourne Age observes:
“ The Queen, his mother, has forged exceptional
claims upon the hearts of her loyal subjects in
both capacities.” This is evidently the Age of
high treason. Apropos of the Prince, his widow
will receive the following annual sums as inoomo:
£l5OO from Prince Leopold’s estate, £5OOO from
interest of her own dowry of £lOO,OOO, and £6OOO
from the British Parliament. Not much for a
Princess, certainly; but with economy it ought to
enable her to keep the wolf from the door, unless
wolves are very plentiful.
The clerk of tbe Dubbo Council is in a
precarious condition, and the only way out of his
dilemna seems to be death or emigration. The
district is suffering from a tight money market.
Just now rates are neing paid in the Council’s own
cheques. The bank won’t pay them, and the con-
sequence is that they are accumulating in the
Council’s safe, so that it happens that the clerk
has more money in his hands—that is, assuming
these cheques to be equivalent to money—than
the law allows. We sympathise with the clerk,
but still we congratulate him and the SUnday-
school to which he belongs, that he has more,
rather than lem, money than the law allows.
It’s quite refreshing to note the pleasant,
innocent little way in which the psalm-smiters de-
scribe their dissipations. “An interesting bazaar
and sale of gifts,” we find, was opened at the
Sunday-school of a Melbourne Congregational
Church. “ A Punch’s theatre was added as a side
show,” and (as the business was in aid of the
finances of the church) “it was the intention to
provide masque performances in the way of simple
burlesque of the frolicsome kind.” We have at-
tended masque performances that were far more
frolicsome than simple—yet they were not in con-
nection with a Congregational Church. We blush
to think what this holy masque must have been
like.
One advantage of the Victorian railways
to our neighbouring colonists oonsists in the
opportunities they offer for the disposal of any
encumbrance. No Victorian need bo long domin-
ated by a mother-in-law, for instance—he merely
requires to reside a railway journey away from
the dear lady, make her a present of a season
tieket between the two places, and ask U ui' to come
and see him as often as she likes. She can’t live
long at that. Or—
If, perchance, some poor relation
They’ve no wish to see again,
Then they take him to a station,
And dispatch him off by train.
It’s soon done.
Some men so overflow with native humour
that no one who knew them would be at all sur-
prised to find them sitting 1 up in their shrouds and
cracking jokes at their own funerals. The Mait-
land messer who does the telegraphic agony for
the Noozb must be one of these, as he jocosely
wires as follows:—“In the Maitland Hospital on
Sunday, Mrs. Coleman, who had been suffering for
a long time from an ovarian tumour, underwent
an operation for its removal. Drs. Power, Knaggs,
Beeston. Pierce, Howe, and Alcorn were present,
and the tumour was successfully removed, but the
patient died shortly afterwards.” Someone ought
to successfully remove that joker’s brain-pan and
fill it up with sawdust or guano.
They called him “Terrible Paddy,” over
Nangambie way, bekase he was the divil’s own
boy wld a nit ov a shtick in a runnin’ row, an’ cud
wipe the flure wid any gorsoon that ’ud thread on
the tail ov his coat when he had a shkinful of
whiskey undher his belt. Like most of his coun-
trymen, Paddy had a strong religious sentiment
pervading his divil-may-care existence, but in
some instances it verged upon the profane. One
day Paddy met a friend of his from home, who,
over a glass of the “rale stuff,” inquired after the
health of a mutual acquaintance that was down
“ wid the fever.” “ An’ how is poor Langty Ryan,
at all, at all ?” queried the friend. “ Oh, begorra,
he’s very bad,” was the rejoinder of Terrible
Paddy, “sure, Father O’Flanagan called round to
see him last night,!an’ by my sowkini, he blanked
near anointed him.”
Joy for the Rookwoodites during the
winter months! According to the Salvation
Cyrus the Church of England means to provide
evening lectures, while the Mutual Improvement
and the Temperance Societies, and the Band of
Hope are waiting to welcome every blessed
tanner anybody’s fool enough to subscribe. Dano-
ing is to be tabooed, if possible, and unco guidness
alone to be allowed full swing. Luckily the ceme-
tery’s handy to cheer a body up after a series of
tame curate lectures, and the pious delights of
mutual improvement d la Tartuffe. Dost thou
think, Cyrus, because thou art sanctimonious,
there shall be no more cakes and ale—no more
jocund Terpsichorean gatherings, no more hearty
recreation? Yes, by Saint Phillips! and ginger
shall be hot i’ the mouth, too.
Last week, urgent appeals were made to
Premier Stuart, imploring him to set a day apart
for humiliation and prayers for rain, and he would
in all probability have yielded to the next attack,
but heaven appears to have noticed what was
going on below, and on Sunday last sent down a
second edition of the deluge, to the intense disgust
of our Civil servants, the majority of whom had
partly made arrangements for a slammed good
day’s fishing. This looks as if the gods were rather
soared at the thought of being bombarded by our
prayers, and it reminds us forcibly of the anecdote
of the tree'd coon, who, having ascertained that
the party below was about to fire, called out,
“Don’t shoot, kurnil; I’ll come down myself im-
mediately.” We are thankful for the deluge, and
we sympathise deeply with the disappointed fisher-
men.
More candidates for the “ cat.” Granny
is the informer this time, and gravely twiddling
her thumbs declares:—“The same spirit which
allows a prosperous merchant or squatter to rest
satisfied so long as he can provide himself with all
these external paraphernalia of wealth, re-appears
in the larrikin, who, having no ambition in his
labour beyond the satisfaction of his animal appe-
tite, refuses to work for a longer period than |it
will take him to accomplish this object.” Things
that are convertible must be identical; argal,
every prosperous merchant or squatter must be a
larrikin in spirit. The old woman’s logic reminds
us of that of the bush dominie, who argued,
“man’s an animal, and a pig’s an animal, therefore,
man’s a pig.” Apropos of this, we wonder what
the Hunter-street logician would call a prosperous
newspaper proprietor who was satisfied to run a
journal in a style seven centuries behind the age,
“ so long as he could provide himself with all these
external paraphernalia, &o.” Must be a thorough-
paced Waterlooer.
The extremely good people in Melbourne,
who never tell a lie, are quarrelling with the
extremely good people in Otago, who never do it
too. It grieves the heart of Melbourne to have to
admit that the Presbyterians of Otago “ part ” only
to the extent of sd. a piece annually to the support
of the missionary heroes, who pant to convert the
heathens of far away lands, while they spend at
the rate of £5 a head on whusky. It is no wonder
Melbourne wept as it told the tale. But Otago
started up downright mad, and sent across word to
what it calls “the Melbourne pharisees,” ridicul-
ing the tears as crocodile eye-wash, and assevera-
ting that the statistics are false as hell. So far,
however, Melbourne, wagging its heads and wav-
ing its pocket handkerchief, has a little advantage.
It shows that it did not coin the figures out of its
native Pharisaical ore, but that it drew them from
the mint of the religious centre of Otago itself.
The very sd. for missions, and the very £5 for
whisky are in the official report of the last Presby-
terian Synod that sat in Otago. This is a consider-
able advantage from an argumentative point of
view.
Some dramatio features were brought out
in Melbourne, the other day, at the inquest which
was held on the body of Konald Duncan Blair, a
lumper, who committed suicide. He was to have
been married on Wednesday, and was living l by
himself in a house which he had taken and fur-
nished in view of his approaching wedding. The
evidence showed that the deceased had placed on
a box his wedding-ring and a photograph of his
intended wife, and, with them in front of him, he
took a buoher’s knife and out his throat, having
first placed a bucket by his side to receive the
blood. When the body was found, there were dis-
covered seven other butcher knives about the
room. Mr. Blair evidently preferred death to the
prospect of future certain lectures. In the early
days of Connecticut (U.S.), during the reign of the
Blue Laws, a man was given the alternative of
either marrying the girl or being hung. On the way
to the gallows he was taken past the girl’s house,
and was finally asked, “ Will you marry the girl ?”
“ Let me look at her again,” was the request. The
girl came out, and, after a short scrutiny, the
culprit said thoughtfully, “ Sharp eyes, sharp nose,
sharp chin. Go on with the hanging.”
Says a Victoran exchange: “The instal-
lation of Sir William Clark as Grand Master of the
Freemasons was a ceremony that will long be
remembered by every Mason present.” That’s so.
At least we know one of the craft who is not likely
to sponge it off his memory’s slate for some con-
siderable time. This gentleman was one of the
intercolonial delegates, and, as he left for home
about 3 a.m., it was noticed his apron was stowed
under the tail of his eoat, d la crinolette, his neck-
tie was carefully cocked under his left ear, a
gorgeously coloured map of Australia adorned his
vest, his hair stood out in all directions like the
brißtles on a hog going to war, and his general
appearance was that of a Brother who had jnst
ridden the lodge goat up the mysterious ladder of
Kadosh and had then been butted clean over the
Royal Arch of Hiram’s Temple. Getting into a
cab he gave the driver the Masonic sign and told
him to drive to “ Tempen'sfiotel corn’r shnm
street.” But Jehu was on for plunder, and so he
drove his very tired fare to a select lodge in Little
Bourke-street in which the Past Master and Past
Mistress relieved him of £350 in notes and every-
thing else he had worth taking. Moral: Never
mix ” when you’re at a Masonic installation.
Amid all the hysterical slobber shed over
the untimely death of Prince Leopold, a “ leader ”
in the Melbourne D.T. furnishes one of the choicest
samples:—“The Prince was the youngest of the
Queen’s sons, and undoubtedly the foremost of
them all in personal gifts and promise. No other
of the Princes, indeed, sustains anything resembl-
ing his unique position to the Queen (well, she
couldn’t have two youngest sons), or has anything
like his place in popular esteem. The rich promise
of his life has been quenched in a moment. His
death leaves England poorer.” The statement
that “ no other of the Princes has anything like bis
place in popular esteem,” may be read in two
different ways; but how the death of a young
man, who drew £35,000 from the public funds,
can leave “ England poorer,” really needs explain-
ing. Furthermore, it vould be a puzzling problem


Ask for Hookings’ High-olass Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars. 143 Pitt-atreet.*
The feeblest system may be fortified against the
effects of unwholesome air and rapid changes of
temperature, by the occasional use of that, cele-
brated tonic and invigorating cordial, Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Just think of it! Says a Scotch exchange:
“Last Wednesday, the Highland Kailway ran a
special train from Alness to Aberdeen, consisting
of twenty-four waggons, laden entirely with
whisky.” Neish I hurrah 1 twenty-four waggons
of whisky—a right Pantagruelian load. Scotland
for ever, and ne’er may her sons
Want reason to boast her,
Or whisky to toast her—
Scotland for ever 1 and old mountain-dew !
Neish l neish l neish 1 hurrah I
The Prince of Wales owns 250,000 acres of
land near Kansas city (U.S ) and is on for investing
in more. Sees a republic in the distance ?
Don’t use stimulants, but nature’s brain
and nerve food—Hop Bitters. See.
Catarrh of the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
inflamation, all Kidney and Bimilar Complaint,a
cured by “ Buohu-paiba.” Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney. General Agents.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Splendid Success! The oareer of
Bristol’s Pills and Sarsaparilla in this country
has indeed been a splendid success, hundreds ana
hundreds of invalids broken down by the diseases
peculiar to this climate, have been restored by
them to robust health. Header why should they
not cure you ?
“ Eat and Live.”—lf your stomach craves for
a pleasant bitter to sharpen the keen edge of
appetite, ask your chemist for Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, the Great Nerve Tonic. Take no sub-
stitute. Wholesale at Messrs. Elliott Brothers and
Prosser’s. Sole Proprietors, Marshall Brothers,
M.P.S., lOiand 106, Market-atreet, Sydney.
to difoover the “ rich promise of his life,” seeing
that the D.T. itself informs us in the same article:
—“Nearly all the greater pursuits of active life
are practically forbidden to the Queen’s sons. . .
The one role left for the Princes to play is that of
social leadership of the ornamental kind.” By the
way, what a fearful fix all the gushers would be in
if something were to happen to any other of the
Queen’s sons, within a week or so. What odds
about the next one being “ foremost of them all in
personal gifts and promise ?”
Here’s a glorious chanoe for Milner
Stephen. The extremely very latest religious fad
has just been started by a number of philosophical
people in Boston, and the name of this Satan
shaker is called the “ Matter in itself,
they say, “ is inert, insensate, lifeless, and unpo-
tentiai,” the power which animates matter is
Divine. Illness is want of vital power, therefore
want of Divinity. “A mind healer is a person
who is full to superabundance upon his own cog-
nisance of the Almighty, and who is willing to
allow his, or more generally her, superfluity or
abundance to overflow into the person of some
patient to whom it is declared the presence of
disease proves the absence of the Lord.” The pro-
cess is the simplest. The healer sits down with his
back in contact with the corresponding portion of
the patient’s person, and for the moderate price
of a dollar an hour allows the supposed Divine
influence to flow from vertebra? to vertebra?. A
dollar an hour for having the Divine influence
pumped into one’s vertebra? seems reansonable
enough ; in fact, anyone who asks for it cheaper
would want his fare paid to Heaven, and a hot
supper thrown in on arrival, but we have a strong
idea ourselves that when the healer turned his
back to us, we would apply the sole of our copper-
toed boot to the southern pole of his vertebra?, in
a style that would rattle every tooth in his head,
and send himself and his influence flowing along
to everlasting blazes.
The Court of Queen’s Bench has ruled
that a libel on a deceased person cannot be main-
tained. This ruling arose out of the case of “ The
Queen” (on the application of the Duke of
Vallambrosa) v. Labouchere an application by the
Duke of Vallambrosa for a criminal information
for libel against Henry Labouchere, M.P., pub-
lished in Truth. The article complained of as
libellous commenced by stating that" Society at
Cannes, headed by the Duke of Vallambrosa, hss
been very indignant with Lord Wolverton for
introducing M. Clemenceau to Mr. Gladstone;”
and went on to state:—” The Duke of Vallambrosa
is, of course, plus Boyaliste que le Roi, his father
having been an army contractor who was nearly
hanged on the charge of supplying as meat to a
Trench army corps the flesh of soldiers who had
died in hospital, or who had been killed in action.
Luckily for him the First Empire came to an end
before the trial could take place, and the con-
tractor having retired to Italy and purchased a
dukedom, became a grand seigneur and an ardent
adherent of the Bourbons.” It was alleged by the
duke that this was a false and malicious statement
(Labouchere nows admits it is incorrect) libellous
in itself on the memory of his father, and calcu-
lated to bring him and his family into public
hatred, riducle, and contempt The Court dis-
charged the rule. *uch Radical views from the
Queen’s Bench—why. Manning and Innes will
think the world coming to an end. But Martin
will rule first chance that the Court of Queen’s
Bench is an incompetent tribunal, just as he has
ruled that the libel law of the Lord Chief Justice
was only fit for Englishmen.
There is a slight issue between the Brisbane
Hospital Committee and the Town and Country
Mission Committee. The former body recently
excluded the Rev. James Stewart, a city mission-
ary, from the .(institution they manage, because
certain female patients had complained that the
holy man had put his hands under the bed-
clothes and touched them indelicately, and
Mr. Stewart’s excuse, that he had only touohed
them to test the temperature of their bodies, did
not appear altogether satisfactory. The latter
body thereupon took up the matter ; made an
inquiry; came to the conclusion that there was no
ground for any imputation on Mr. Stuart’s moral
character, although his action was liable to be
construed into presumption by intruding on the
medical officer's functions; and requested the Hos-
pital Committee to reconsider their decision—
which ’tis to be hoped the latter body won’t do.
Our idea is that the Stewart line of action in test-
ing the temperature of a female patient’s body,
while supposed to be engaged in ministering to her
spiritual necessity, is far more liable to bo con-
strued into gross indecency than into presumption;
and that, even if not immoral in intent, it is action
that richly deserves a thundering good hiding.
Wo know that if a woman we cared for was sick
in hospital, and a city missionary came along test-
ing the temperature of her body,,and we heard of
it, we should go for him straight, with the fixed
determination to raise the temperature of that
portion of his carcase on which he is accnstomed
to sit. The “reverend”—indeedl “no ground for
imputation”! quite sol Bahl City missionaries
of the Stewart type should be made to hold their
hands up during their ministrations; at a sick (wo-
man’s bed, as French were made to do bjr
Parisian theatregoers— and for the same reason.
Forty centuries behind the Age as usual.
Wednesday’s Morning Missionary gravely de-
votes part of its unvaluable columns to a graphic
description of what it, in its innocence, calls a
newly-invented electric rat-trap. “On all sides of
a cellar,” Says this Rip Van winkle, “ and at a
height of two inches from the ground, is placed a
small wooden trough sprinkled with cheese, while
on each side of the trough run the electric wires
which furnish light to the rest of the house. The
mice and rats are naturally attracted by the
cheese, and in endeavouring to reach it, touch the
two wires, and are instantly killed.” Do they?
They used to do It in England about the time of
the Norman Conquest, but finding their ranks
were getting materially thinned by some mysteri-
ous means, a few of their savants were started
across to interview their American cousins on the
crisis. The result was that a few eminent four-
legged, long-tailed lecturers were engaged to
travel over and investigate the matter. Of course
the trough, cheese, and wire biz. was job-type
print to them, and after giving a course of lectures
throughout the land, tne slaughter ceased, and
the professors cleared for home. Ever since, no
rat thinks of going for his supper without carry-
ing a small glass stool upon whioh elevated perch
he stands and picks up the contents of the trough
with a small glass spoon. Glass being a capital
non-conductor of the electric fluid, the rats simplv
fill their feed bags and then, after passing a vote
of thanks to the thoughtful cuss who invented
the trap which now fills Hunter-street with such
unbounded admiration, three cheers are given for
the Queen and the generous donor of the feast,
and then the delighted rodents skip off to their
lodge rooms and blow themselves out till they
look like so many prize pigs at Smithfleld. In the
course of a few centuries more the Missionary
will probably discover that the reason a cat
always swallows a mouse head foremost is in order
to save its tail lor a toothpick. The world is
beginning to move; that’s dead certain.
Last number but one of the Australasian
was the best for a long time. There were a notice
of the Queen’s new book, a visit of the Vagabond
to Pentridge. and an elegy on Richard H. Horne,
by “G. G. M‘C." There is a good deal of real
merit in the latter, and with it the choicest little
bonne bouche of bathos since Bob Bouthey “ soared
to elegise an ass.”
" But now as we, with reddening Northern skies,
Hail brave Orion, girt about with stars,
The deathless calm of ages in his eyes,
With lion-skin on arm, which fitly bars
The idler from Elysium: now we hear
The glorious epic of the age again,” &o.
So far, so good. And now :
" Alas for usl Alas 1 The times, that he,
Our chiefest, noblest singer thus should die
All undistinguished— not a C.M.0.,
To lay upon his coffin reverently.”
There! You don’t believe it? "Well, look at the
Australasian of the 29th March. Poor Horne.
Has he no friends in Australia to preserve his
name from insult? Sorrow for the author of
Orion not being a C.M.G.. and in the same list as—
and—! Pestel And then the article on the “new
book” comes in to complete our annovance.
Some of theso critics should be condemned to a
year’s course of the London Journal and Martin
Tupper. “ The Intellectual gifts with which it is
well known Her Majesty has been liberally en-
dowed just as unstudied and ingenuous
as Pepy’s diary, or the letters of Madame de
SMont.” Bah! And our “Julian,” too—he’s get-
ting into his aneedotage. “We have had the greatest
war correspondent of the age Still, in
seven yeara many things onange. ... I would
hang all homicidal lunatics, they should never be
allowed the chanoe of repeating their crimes,” &c.,
&c. This is gruesome enough in all conscience.
Only think—the quaint Pepys and the brilliant
de S<svign<s in the same sentence as the narrator of
the accidental chafing of poor Brown’s legs!
DOMESTIC DIPKOMACY
The W ;f “ Pools the Husband
The Husband Fools the Wife
The Girls Fool the Mothei
The Boys Fool the Father
United, they Fool the Neighborhood
iWhilc Bridget Manages to Fool the Whole Family
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de~
plume cannot expect to have their com-
municatiom noticed*]
“ Irishman ’’ : Of course we sympathise
with the Irish cause we sympathise with the
weaker side in all cases. But we think it is a pity
that Ireland is not a furniture-van dr a brick-kiln,
or a pit or a blind man. If it had been a pit it
might have been filled up, if a brick-kiln pulled
down, if a furniture-van wheeled off, if a blind
man moved on, long ago, But it is an island, and
takes up valuable sea-room besides growing rebels.
Think of the yachting ground, the cruising ground,
the fishing ground, the space of sea it takes up
would have made for English fishermen, sailors,
and aristocrats 1 After all, is it so wonderful + hat
the Irish are persecuted? Be reasonable. You
must admit, on a dispassionate view of the matter,
that Ireland has no business to exist—anyhow, she
has had no business of any other kind since Eng-
land first discovered she and Ireland were sister
islands. Na bocklish— the day will cotnel In
the meantime, keep up your spirits and think of
Dan O’Connor and the curtain.J.P.”: Thanks...
“Pereival” (Prahran): Too vague—metre too
ragged and unstudied. Try again. Should be
good stuff in the lode the “ circus incident ” came
from “Burdekin”: For one who hasnoearfor
rhythm about the worst thing in the; world is to
take a “ header ” into metre. A word in your ear.
Get some one to tell you about poetical feet before
you again sit down to verse. Then, when you’ve
covered a quire of paper—one side only, mind-
get a wax match and ....“W.J.M.” (Redfern):
We’ve read the “ Song of Sydney’s Fiends ” and
when we say we are still alive enough has been
said this time “Robert Richardson” (Edin-
burgh, Scotland): Although you send your “ Bal-
lade of Princes-street ” in MS., we have a toler-
ably clear recollection of having seen it in
print in a Scotch paper “V.C.”: There are 247
names on the roll of the Victoria Cross. Of these
50 are those of private soldiers (including drum-
mers, buglers, and trumpeters): of 7 seamen; of
51 non-commissioned officers (naval and military);
of 1 captain: of 4 baronets; of 1 peer (Baron
Gifford; and 1 lord by courtesy (Lord W. Beres-
ford....“T.W.”: Much obliged; next week....
W.8.A1l right. Go ahead... “L.L.”: That
White Boat—merit not equal to length...” Verax ”:
Lord Belmore is not a Privy Councillor, although
he is writ down as such in one or two annuals pre-
tending to accuracy. He is an Irish representative
peer —“ Brisbane”: Yes; Lilley was offered a
Knight Bachelorhood in 1881; but if you remem-
ber rightly he refused in a huff, and was made
a Knight Commander .. .“Ajax ” : There is a
Black Rod” on the staff of the Order of the
Garter; ditto on that of the Order of St. Patrick;
a ‘ Green Rod ” on that of the Order of the Thistle;
and a “ Scarlet Rod ’’ on that of the Order of the
Bath—“G.C.M.”: Thanks—“ Novice”: Items
will require re-touching, but will be welcome
Campodore”: Yes, duty would be charged
Yarramassa ” : Capital fresh idea. Treatment
too crude altogether “Septuagen”: Received.
....“Casino”: Certainly not. It Is not the Land
Agent’s duty to afford inquirers information as to
lands available for selection. It is his first duty to
stall off intrusive, vulgar, would-be selectors after
pumping them to ascertain whether they have an
eye to any particular bit of unselected land; and
his second duty is to send a note to the squatter
warning him to secure that bit of his run by im-
proving it with a hut shifted from the nearest of
his dummy selections. If a man can get no infor-
mation out of the Government land agent, his
best plan is to send a cheque for £lOO to any one of
the well-known land agents in the Assembly, who
will rout out the information for him, and will re-
sist any attempt to displace the Government land
agent, to whose strict probity and impartiality he
will bear ardent testimony when his salary is being
considered among the estimates of the Department
“ C. M. Macdonald ”: Thanks for your obliging
letter. It must be nice when the keeper allows
you pen and ink and takes off the straightwaist-
coat. How is the moon at present ? Three-headed
rhinoceros behaving itself ? “Right Bower”:
Got your snake story, which we are happy to in-
form you we shall not print. We like a liar, but
you suit us too well—“ Wild River, Q.”: Thanks.
You seem to have struck a noble patch of mean
men up there. We have used your information ..
“Jonathan”: Your literary style needs a good
deal of rough-hewing. And, really, we hardly
think you have sufficiently startling ideas to
justify you in wasting much time trying to ex-
press them. It is not good style to speak of a
Mayor as a ship whose course is “steered,” and
then as a horse who has just “ got into harness.”
If you had spoken of him as a mule, the truth of
the metaphor might have excused its incongruity
with the reference to him as a ship. But, remem-
ber this always—mixed metaphors are as bad in
literature as mixed drinks at a vestry meeting —
“Londoner”:—Mr. E. Heaton is not Enniker of
that ilk “Vic.” (Ballarat): Not nearly good
enough “ Flip ”: Thanks “ Lyndhui st
Street”: Soudan, Sow*dan, is a good joke—in
Scotch. But it’s ho use to make a joke in Scotch.
English readers can’t understand the language,
and the Scotch folk will not understand the joke.
See ? “ Churchman ”: The practice of removing
(for personal motives) a preacher of enlightened
views, and then proclaiming that the deed is done
solely for the publio welfare, is, as you say, ex-
tremely prevalent at the present day, but it is by
no means original. If we remember rightly, ft
was initiated by one Caiphas, who, when the bigots
of Jerusalem clamoured : “If we let this man
Christ alone, all men will believe in him. and the
Romans will come and take away our place, and
nation.” (Anglice salary) replied : “It is expedi-
ent for you that one man die for the peopie, so
that the whole nation may not perish.” Old man
Caiphas has a head as long as an Anglican Modera-
tor, and he probably died rich and went to the
devil, just as some of our own divines do at the
S?nt day.... “ Subscriber” (Cootamundra): Cer-
y “ J.M.” (Wooloomooloo) : Will read and
consider “ J. Hall” (Winton): Your case is the
most complicated one we remember since the trial
of Eugene Aram—and all over 3s. 6d. Well, now,
if it had been os , and you had tacked another page
on your letter, we would have been by this time
well on in the biggest spree we tackled since the
week we spent with Baker Pasha after his year’s
“stretch.” We're taking on a new hand in the
Bulletin, so send along another “ case ” as soon
as you can. If he gets through it without going
outside and sending a brick through the window,
there’s a year’s engagement before him, sure.
THE LONDON WATCHMAKER and JEWELLER
London, March 5,1883.
Leading Article : “ * * • While on the subject
of Waltham Watches we may mention that we
have seen a letter from the commander of the
Gordon Castle (Castle line of steam packets), who
was fortunate enough to save life at sea, and who,
for his gallant conduct, was presented in September
last with a Gold Keyless Waltham Watch by the
President of the United Btates, on behalf of the
London Local Marine Board. Referring to this
presentation watch he Bays ‘ When I left London
the watch was six seconds fast, and on my arrival
at Singapore it was only three seconds slow, a
most extroardinary performance for a watch, as I
carried it on my person the whole time. I com-
pared it every day with my chronometers on the
passage out, and it seldom or ever differed one
second from them; in fact, I found it almost if
not as good as my chronometers, which is a great
deal to say for a watch carried about and subjected
to all kinds of jolts.’ ”


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general. 1
RACING.
Clarendon R.C •••• • y • •-A 1 ’. 1 '! 1 Jp*
Murrumbidgoe J.C L it*
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14, 10.
jjav May 16, IK.
Newcastle J.C May 24.
Richmond J.C
Clarence River J.C notin’ J?*
Rockhampton J.C Ju *y 10 > ll *
AQUATICS
Trickett v. Beach April 12.
ATHLETICS.
Carcoar Sheffield Handicap - April 14.
Adelong Sports ....... is
Cobar Sheffield Handicap............ April 17,18.19.
Windsor Grammar School Sports A p ril 7r?"
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports.
Bourko Sheffield Handicap, £3OO ........ May 20, -1.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society s
Grounds %*•
Boyston College Sports May 21.
Casino £3O Handicap May -4.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
Sydney Grammar School Sports May 31.
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Meeting ■•. . ••••••:••• y Ma V 10 -
N.S.W. Cyclists Union Association, Cricket
Ground May 24.
BOWLING.
Intercolonial Match. Victoria v. N.S.W., at
Sydney A P rills ‘
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS
A. A. O’Donnell is astonishing the Maoris
with his bicycle riding.
Donald Dinnie, the renowned Athlete,
suffers like Hanlan, severely from sea sickness.
At Grafton, T. Noud defeated W. Gulli-
ford in a 150 yards spin for £25 a side, on Saturday
last
The dark ’un who is to make a holy show
of the Canadian is said to be doing his rowing at
Raymond Terraoe.
Joe Thompson says he dropped £lOOO at
the Lincolnshire, Liverpool Grand National, and
Kempton Park meetings.
Stanley, the well-known English billiard
professional, tried his hand at riding in India, and
broke his leg in the attempt.
The Ballarat (Vio.) Coursing Trial Stakes
ended in a division between the kennel compa-
nions Morte and Miss Jean, belonging to Mr.
Jundt.
At the close of Thursday’s racing, the
Hawkesbury R.C. received some twenty applica-
Hom from* Books ” for registration. They were
refused.
Mr. John Conway, the pioneer of the first
Australian Eleven, has been regained to guide the
footsteps of the English professionals through the
colonies.
Talleyrand, the gelding who ran so well
under John Tait’s colours, was recently shot, out
on thellerbert River (Q ), in the twenty-eighth year
of his age.
The S.A.C.S. handicap race for 24-footers,
on Saturday last, resulted in a win for the Victoi\
The starters were : Lizzie (10 min.), Victor and
Lotta (scratch).
The Blayney cricketers are going to play
taavoo with our juniors, at Easter, judging from
the reports received of the combined team who
purpose visiting us.
Fay of Southampton (Eng.), is building a
new 85 ton racing cutter. An immense load keel,
weighing 70 tons, has been cast, and upon this the
yacht will be framed.
Tenders have been accepted for the Mer-
cantile Rowing Club branoh premises on the Par-
ramatta River. It is expected they will be com-
pleted by the end of May.
Le Grand, 3yrs., has started 17 times, won
10 races, was placed 5 times, and not placed twice.
Martini-Henri, 3yrs., has started 4 times, and won
3 races. Good records for both.
The sail-off between the Wingadee and
lan the, in connection with the Wopllooinooloo
Bay Regatta, came off on Saturday last, and re-
sulted in a win for the Wingadee, with plenty to
spare.
At the final general monthly meeting of
the Sydney Amateur Sailing Club, it was decided
to close the season on 19th April with evolutions,
to be followed by a shandygaff entertainment at
the expense of the Commodore.
For the Bourke Sheffield Handicap of £3OO,
to be competed for on the 25th May, there are 64
entries; Malone, Farrell. Arnold, Oambadello
» Billy, Frank Robertson, and other well-known
peds being amongst the number.
The Windsor Grammar School Club has
fixed uDon a programme for their sports on 26th
April, the following being the principal events:
00 yards’ fiat race, open to all school#; 300 yards
strangers’ race; and 2-mile bicycle race.
Donald Dinnie offers to make matches
with Australian athletes, and allow the following
concessions: At throwing the hammer, 10ft.; at
putting the stone, 2ft.; at throwing cwb, one
foot; at tossing the caber, one foot cut off caber.
During the past 10 years, Mat. Dawson has
won £247000 per annum for Lord Falmouth.
Hughes the jockey draws £l3OO a year salary from
Pierre Lorillard. Wonder what our IJESS:
enoourager and muscle-despiser Dawvid thinks
of these things ?
The swimming matches at the White Horse
Point Baths, Balmain, on Saturday, p ssed off suc-
cessfully- Corbett won the 480 yards all-comers
race: and Knight secured the amateur champion-
ship of Balmain. The minor events were well
filled and contested.
The United States is the paradise of prize-
fighters- A Yankee journal states that the
coloured race is coming to the fore in the noble
art there being no less than ten black men en-
gaged as professional bruiser*. The question is*
are there any “ white men ” among the mob at all.
The wrestling match in Melbourne be-
tween Victor and Thomas, best two out of three,
one Grieco-Koman and two catch-as catch-can,
resulted in a win for Victor after what appeared
to be a genuine struggle. Victor threw Thomas
in tho Grroco style after twenty-four minutes of
wrestling, and Thomas made things even by throw-
ing his opponent in fifteen minutes. The final
lasted tweuty-one minutes, the Frenchman acting
on the defensive, till Tbom-s seized him from
behind, when he threw his arms upwards and
backwards round Thomas s neck, then lifted him
clean off his feet and threw him forward right
over bis (Victor’s) head square ou to his back.
When we see the names of Charley Gregory
and Bob Fairwoather amongst the list of “has
beens” who are to play the juniors, it sort of
makes us put our hand up to our head to see how
much hair we have left. By the way, how was it
George Moore was not included in the eleven ? It
doesn’t seem complete without him.
At Elsternwiek Park (Vie.) on Saturday
there was a fairly attended raee meeting. The
Hurdlo Race was won by Ned Kelly, Don Alonza
2nd, and First Try 3rd; Black Tracker won the
Maiden Trot; the El wood Handicap was>von by
Honora, Priestess 2nd: Countryman 3rd; The
Ghost won the Selling Race, Leporello 2nd, Quie-
tude 3rd: «nd the Elsternwiek Park Handicap was
won by Agatha.
Ned Gregory is to receive a benefit on
April 25 and 26, the attraction picked upon being a
match between old intercolonial players and an
eleven to be picked from the clubs competing for
the Junior Cup. The following old stagers have
been chosen:—J. Coates, H. M. Faithfull, W. Camp-
bell. E. Gregory. C. Gregory. C. Laurence, A. Park,
S. Cosstick, E. Tindall, N. Thompson, J. Tooher,
and R. Fairweather.
At tho fifth annual meeting of the Glebe
Rowing Club, the balanc 5 sheet showed £l4 9s. 3d.
on the right side, and the following officers were
elected: Captain, A. Ickerson; hon. secretary, R.
Shute; hon. treasurer, F. C- Williams; committee,
Messrs. S. J. Bull, F. J. Bull, H. Butchart, H. R.
Cox, R. A. Daley, G. W. Durrell, R. J. Fairweather,
E. J. Haslingden, E. P. Maves. The annual ball
will be held about the beginning of June.
At Adelaide the cricket match between
the South Adelaide and Kensington elubs was con-
tinued on Saturday last. The former made 241
runs in their first innings, and the latter 85. In
their second innings the South Adelaide scored 139.
The Hindmarsh aud North Adelaide cricket elubs
also continued, when the former put together 375
runs, including 171 by Noel. On the previous day
the latter made 192 for the loss of eight wickets.
Queensland Jost is going in big licks for
sport this season, and evidently means to sweep
the turf, if possible. At his station he has a most
extensive stud, and he has also a string of boxes
at Eagle Farm, where his trainer, George Harris,
puts the final touch on the flyers. At present, Mr.
Jost has in work : Sportsman, Legacy, Ormond,
Kangaroo, the Goldsborough colt, and a couple of
dark ’uns. Respite the Banaaaland
HEB SOCIAL DUTIES.
WASHERWOMAN : “I’d come to-morrer and do for you with
pleasure, mum, only it’s the day I keeps for making all my
calls, and” (left explaining.)
for the Rowley Mile, at the Hawkesbury, on
Thursday last, but was never “in it.”
A few days ago, a very well-known Vic-
torian bookmaker was hitched in double harness
to his “first, and only love,” (bar one, it appears)
and the cheers of his brother “ sports ” had hardly
died away when solicitor Daly, of Collins-street,
presented him with a graceful present in the shape
a writ for £lOOO, at the suit of a lady who had for
some time held herself to rank as Mrs. and
expected to have had her promotion confirmed.
Verily, you can never tell till the number's up.
Naughty disclosures are expected. Nyum I
The great Joe Thompson, in wirin': over to
Mr. Alfred Josephs, states that he has lost about a
thousand at three meetings. This reads very like
« Archer up ” on a fair proportion of winners, for
a successful meeting for the renowned “ Fred
generally means a loss to the books. As far as can
be judged from the latest English papers to hand,
Voluptuary, the winner of the Liverpool Grand
National, should have proved pretty well a
“skinner” for the ring. Possibly, Joe had the
bad luck to be “shot” several times for the long
odds.
Touching a recently quoted par. from the
’Frisco Newsletter in which it is said that if
“the Sullivan and Miller combinations were to
meet in Honolulu and anihiiate each other the
wor d would be well rid of so much rubbuh, the
Hamilton (Vic.) Spectator observes. the
Newsletter is edited by William Nelson M Cann,
a Geelong native’ who used to be known as Billy
M‘Cann. Billy has a private grudge against the
Australian athlete, arising out of the trouble that
necessitated the enterprising Billv’s exit from
Victoria. Hence these tears.” This being so,
Billy would do well to visit the North Pole for the
good or his health when the Professor steps across
to slug the slogger.
The Hawkesbury R C. Autumn meeting
opened on Thursday last with the Hurdle Race,
which was won by Flamborough ; Polestar de-
feated Empress by a head for the Rowley Mile ;
Bargo made an easy win for the Claret Stakes,
Honeydew, a length away, second ; the Railway
Handicap fell to Hypatia, after a great struggle
with Soldier Boy : and Manfred won the Public
Auction Stakes. Despite the threatening weather
on Saturday, a big crowd showed up at the second
day’s racing. Hypatia made an easy win of the
Shorts Handicap ; Bargo defeated Bolero as he
liked for the Maiden Plate; the Hawkesbury Han-
dicap fell an easy victory to Empress, Phylbs
second, Sardonyx third ; Saionara won the Selling
Plate ; and the meeting closed with the Sports-
man’s Handicap, won by Maroney.
C. D. Bardwell, Esq., J.P., of Oberne, has
presented a cup, to be competed for on the Um-
bango cricket ground, and no less than 22 rules
have been drawn up for the cup matches. No. 4
states that players for the cun must live within
12 miles from the practice ground for at least one
month prior to match. No, 7 says no person shall
be allowed to play with any club if such person
live within three miles of any town; and 21 coolly
says that rules 4 and 7 do not apply to the Um-
bango Club. As Umbango is a settled district, but
no town, it would seem the local club have a very
fair mortgage on the pewter presented by C. D,
Bardwell, Esq., J.t\ The goak of the affair is that
the Adelong Bannermans and Spoffs had next
thing to ordered the fizz to be drunk over the
winning of the trophy, but by rules 4 and 7 the
wily Umbangoans have completely blooked the
townies.
A Russian oolonel sold one of his horses to
a merchant at a very high price, intimating at the
same time that he was very loth to part with it,
the animal being so capable and intelligent as
“ only wanting a tongue to be perfect.” The mer-
chant’s delight at his bargain, however, was some-
what dashed by the news brought him next day
by his groom that the horse was incapable of
drinking properly, having only half a tongue. At
this fatal revelation of ' he colonel’s real meaning,
his victim at once laid the case before a magistrate;
but the defendant maintained, amid the uproari-
ous laughter of the entire court (including even
the presiding judge himself), that he had given his
customer fair warning of tho defect, his words
being that the horse “ only wanted a tongue to
make him perfect.” and he appealed to the plaintiff
himself for a confirmation of his statement, which
the latter, with extreme reluotanoe, eventually
gave.
In England, Mr. Anderson’s Bill to amend
the Cruelty to Animals Act, provides that any
person who shall either in any place kept or used
for the purpose, or elsewhere, shoot at any bird
liberated for the purpose, from a trap or any other
contrivance or from the hand, or who shall in any
manner encourage, aid, or assist at such shooting,
shall, on conviction, forfeit and pay a penalty not
exceeding £5 for every such offence. And any
person who shall keep, or use, or act in the
management of any place for the purpose of such
shooting, or shall permit or suffer any place to be
so used, shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding
£5 for every day he shall so keep, or use, or act in
the management of any such place, or permit or
suffer any place to be used as aforesaid, provided
always that any person who shall receive money
for the admission of any other person to any place
kept or used for the purpose aforesaid, may be
deemed to be the keeper thereof.
A match has been arranged, and articles
entered into by Edward Hanlan and James Hunt
for a match on the Nepean, between Hanlan and
Trickett or Beach, for £6OO and the championship
of the world. But Beach has written to a daily
stating Mr. Hunt has no authority to use his name,
po that at present affairs appear rather mixed.
Beach is almost sure to win the race next Satur-
day, at least, so we think: and, should he do so, it
is to be hoped the Hanlan-Hunt party may see fit
to alter the course mentioned in the articles of
agreement, to the champion course of Australia,
the Parramatta River, as surely the public will
never be gulled in sufficient quantities as to make
a race between Hanlan and the loser, for the
championship of the world, recoup the syndicate
for their big outlay. Mr. Hunt, without consult-
ing Beach, planted £l5O at the signing of articles,
so that it would appear the great desideratum
is that the course should be on the Nepean, and
not that the best Australian should meet the Cana-
dian for the championship of the world.
The postponement of the Oxford and
Cambridge boat race, from the Saturday to Mon-
day (in consequence of the funeral of Prince
Leopold), necessitated the scratching of all bets
previously made on the race. According to the
rules ot betting on aquatic events, in England, the
mere fact of a Sunday intervening between the
date originally fixed and that on which the race is
actually rowed, invalidates all wagers made prior
to the announcement of the postponement, and
thus, no doubt, many of the fortunate investors
who had taken odds about both crews (there s
generally a chance of doing so over the University
match), and stood to win a little either way, found
themselves “ done out of a soft thing ” at the last
minute. A similar disappointment was experi-
enced a few seasons baok, when the race had to be
rawed on the Monday, in oonsequenoe of the
dense fog hanging over the Thames two days pre-
viously. In the case of the famous “ dead heat,
too, between the rival crews, all bets were “off,”
instead of the takers of odds deriving a benefit, as
at horse-raeing.
Last Saturday, all oyclists were invited by
the Suburban Bicycle Club to join in their opening
run of the season to Botany, and there to attack
one of Correy’s neat little lunches. The weather
was abominable, from the cyclist view, but never-
theless over 100 wheelmen gathered at the tryst,
Wynyard Square, where the balconies and win-
dows were filled with spectators. The rain came
down diligently, but at 2.30 the bugles sounded,
and the procession led, by Moyse and Shute, wet
but undaunted, headed into George-street. The
Suburbans went fi’-st, then the Sydneys, Wan-
derers, Burwords, R9dferns, Orientals and tin-
attached. Paterson's patent oilskins, specially for
bicycling, and brought out from home on the
chance of the drought breaking up, seemed to be
just in time, and made him conspicuous. Bennet
and Edwards, similarly coated all over in shiny
black, rode a tandem tricycle together and were
the ®entre of notioe along the route. The rain
never stopped, but the procession splashed along
at a rattling pace the whole way, and a rear view
of the mud-spattered riders fully justified the
observation made by a Waterloo aristocrat f rom
his vegetable oarriage that they i“ ought to wear
dash-boards.” Arrived at Correy’s in a little over
the half-hour, 80 riders sat down to lunch and soon
forgot their dampness. Mr. Holdsworth was
chairman, supported on both hands by captains
and secretaries, &o, of the clubs, and the toasts
were rapidly put. The ohairman gave “The
Queen.” Mr B. Shute, captain of the Suburbans
proposed “ Cyclists and our Visitors.” He believed
In cyoling, and though his club was now the
largest, hoped all the others would soon grow as
large. Mr. C. E. Wood, sub-captain of the Sydneys,
responded, regretting he could not address
“ ladies ” as well as “ gentlemen,” but was glad to
see even so many of the latter accepting the hos-
pitality offered by their hosts. He proposed the
“Suburban Club,” to which Shute replied, the
cries for hon. see. Moyse not bringing that brilliant
but bashful young bicyclist up to the scratch. Mr.
John Martin’s toast of the “ Press ” was replied to
by gentlemen who professed that they only lived to
write paragraphs about bieyoles, and then the
company peddled home. It only wanted another
hour or two’s rain, and they eould have paddled.
The result of the Grand National Steeple-
chase at Liverpool furnishes another proof of the
ability of a well-bred horse, without any particu-
lar pretentions as a stayer on the flat, to develop
into a regular sticker “across country,” where
the nature of the track precludes the possibility
of the pace being too killing. Voluptuary, whose
vietory was cabled the other day. although a
stylish-bred horse (by Cremorne—Miss Evelyn),
had failed to distinguish himself at the “ legiti-
mate game,” and is, in fact, a cast-off from Lord
Roseberry’s stable. Voluptuary’s new owner
appears to have lost no time in schooling him in
the jumping business, and the horse, showing an
aptitude for it, is let into the Grand National with a
light weight, and at almost the first (if not the first)
appearance in public “over sticks” contrives to
show a clean pair of heels to a field of “ steeple-
chasers.” In the old days such a feat would have
been deemed impossible, and thirty years ago not
one of the competitors for an important steeple-
chase in England would ever haye figured in a flat
race. Cross country events werd invariably con-
tested by powerful, lumbering animals (of the type
of the Hon. W. Pearson’s Trumpeter), old
sportsmen ignoring the pretentions of any
“weed” not born and bred to the game,
to successfully negotiate a four-and-a-half mile
course—partly over ploughed land—like that of
Liverpool. Yet experience has proven that a well-
bred, light-framed horse may be raced long before
it is matured, kept strictly to short distance
scrambles for two or three seasons, and then—pro-
vided it can jump— take honours “across country,’*
from horses of far finer physique and apparent
staying powers, but which lack the little bit off
extra “quality” which the flat-racer boasts. A
most striking illustration of this was the ease off
Regal, who won the Liverpool Grand National a
few years back. He was by the mighty Gladiateur
out of Regalia (the winner of the Oaks in the same-
year that the French champion secured the Derby>
and great things were expected of a horse with so-
aristocratic a pedigree. Well, Regal proved an
utter failure on the flat, but after being disposed!
of as “unsound,” succeeded in landing the big-
steepleehaoe for his new master, at the very first
attempt.
The annual eight-oar race between New-
South Wales and Victoria was rowed at Melbourne-
on Saturday last, and added another to the Vic-
torian list of wins, which now stands five to New
South Wales’ two. The boats dashed away evenly*
the Sydneyites being the first to show in front,
rowing 42 to their opponents’ 43; but before a-,
quarter of a mile had been covered they settled
down to 40, when the Melbourne boat assumed
command, and by the time the Sugar Works-
were shot had two lengths and a half to the-
good. From thence to the finish Sydney pulled a*
rough though game race, but were unable-
to cateh the leaders, who won by about
a length in 24min. 6sec , lmin lOsec. faster than the-
best recorded for these races, rowed in 1882. Our
men did wonders considering the disadvantages-
they laboured under; but had petty jealousies and
bickerings been put on one side from the first, we-
might have had a different result to chronicle in
our columns to-day. Jn tho first instance, the
Association picked a crew, although they must
have known, as everyone else seemed to do, that
two men in it would not row, one member of the
S.R.C. on account of a sprained back, and another
because he would not row in the same boat as
a M.R.C. man, who after all the trouble, dis-
covered he could not go to Melbourne. Mr. Oatley
certainly did wonders with the rough material at
his disposal, during the limited stay up the river,
but as if to give a corresponding finish to such a
bad beginning, he was unable to get his leave, and
the crew went to Melbourne to commence afresh
with a new coach, very likely with totally different
ideas from their first mentor, and worse than all,
without anyone to look after them in quarters, for
by all accounts, one, at least, of the eight required
lather a strict surveillance. We are not writing
with the idea of detracting from the merits of the
Victorian crew, who rowed as one man from start
to finish, nor with the usual “didn’t we tell you
so ” cry, now the race is over, but we do write with
the hope that next year the picking of the crew
will be made in plenty time to allow of any dis-
appointments, so that Now South Wales may have
" chance of lessening her long list of defeats. The
1 ‘flowing are the names and weights of the crews
who competed on Saturday lastVictoria.—F. J.
Taylor, Yarra Yarra, lOst.; W. W. Benior, Victoria,
10st.; w. J. Leverett, Melbourne, lOst F. A.
Akerson, Melbourne, list. 10fi>.: W. Douglas, Vic-
toria, 12st.; F. G. Hughes, Melbourne, list. 2Tb.;
W. Burnip, Melbourne, list. 21b.; R. D. Booth,
Melbourne (stroke)* 12st.; W. Bray (coxswain), 5Pt.
101 b. New South Wales.—R. Johnson, Bydney
(bow), lOst,; F. F. Walker, Balmain, lOst. 121 b • G.
Beale, Mercantile, lOst. 128>.; H. Piekering, Mer-
cantile, lOst. 131 b.; R. Bourke, North Shere.llst.
41b.; 0. S. Gayden, Sydney, list. 121 b.; J. D. Web-
ster, Sydney, lOst. 131 b.; S. H. Martin, Mercantile
(stroke), lOst, 101 b. 8. Chase (ooxswain), sst. sib.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
On 2nd April, the .solicitors’ junior clerks
defeated the barristers’ ditto in a cricket match
played on the Domain Lizette, who was pur-
chased by Mr. E. Weeks, hurt her chest badly in
the Caulfield Steeplechase —It is stated Matua has
cost his owner over £2OOO.
• • •
William Mortlock, a celebrated Surrey
cricketer of a few years back, died on January 23.
In 1861 he formed one of the first English teams
that visited Australia—A very exceptional inci-
dent occurred at the New Orleans races recently.
Between the two days’ racing all the horses ad-
vanced a year in age, so that two-year-olds who
ran on the first day performed as three-year-olds
on the second....Bkll’B Life says that Mr. Mac-
kenzie, the owner of the ground on the Berkshiae
side of the river at Honlev (Eng.), has given per-
mission for about, an acre of land to be cut off
Poplar Point, so that the regatta course may be
made almost straight from start to finish.


THE GOMPAGNONI CATERING COMPANY
(LIMITED),
Caterers to the jfi.J.C.
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR B\LL SUPPERS. HAMPERS FOR PICNICS, RACE AND OTHER
PARTIES SUPPLIED. SPACIOUS BANQUETING HALL,UPSTAIRS
PERSONAL SUPERINTENDENCE GUARANTEED. WELL-APP INTED BAR
Luncheon and Smoking Lounge. All Goods are Gnaranteed of the very best Quality and Description.
E- D. TOLLEMACHE, General RTanager.
Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE NO. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, httdng obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIIMT-CLASS HOTEL -- - * p • • • • --
known as Coffee Palace No.
- in conjunction with the weli-
Every accommodation for country
known Restaurant previously knc _
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the"‘maTl'boats V/ and‘intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance.
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
Sewing Machines.
Do not buy, until you carefully examine the
New No. 7.
Among the Ancient Hebrews this Number signified
COMPLETENESS and PERFECTION.
The Ancient Syrians used it to express
FULLNESS AND PERFECT SATISFACTION,
SEVEN is also regarded as a Lucky Number, and he who
buys the AMERICAN No. 7
SURELY GETS A PRIZE.
Recognizing the p culiar fitness of this application, we
have called our new Machine
THE NUMBER SEVEN,
to indicate its Perfect Completeness, and because we believe
it will Fully and Perfectly Satisfy our Patrons.
RETAIL DEPOT:
567 a GEORGE STREET
(BRICKFIELD HILL, SYDNEY.
W. W. CATEH, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt.street.
ISF* The PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT is under the management of Sbnou
ALBERTO E. GEISMARDO, from Paris, decorated with the Gold Legion of Honor—
(Professional Glove Fitter to the hand). The Department is fitted out in the Continental
style, and Ladies and Gentlemen can now have their Gloves fitted on at the counter as
done in Paris. This excellent plan of fitting Gloves is commanding a thorough appreciation.
THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
Prices guaranteed the Lowest in the City.
KID GLOVES of all descriptions In the latest style
KID GLOVES fitted to the hands without extra
charge
KID GLOVES from 2 to 30 Buttons
KID GLOVES, Mosquetaire style, 8 Buttons length,
KID GLOVES, Mosquetaire style, 10 Buttons
length. Suede, 4s. per pair
KID GLOVES, Sarah Bernhardt style, Suede, 4 1. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 6 Buttons, 6s.
per pair
KID GLOVES, second quality, 0 Buttons, 4s. Cd.
per pair
KID GLOVES, best quality made, 4 Buttons, ss.
per pair
KID GLOVE?, second quality, 4 Buttons, 3s. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES, Josephines, 4 Buttons, 38. 6d per
pair
KID GLOVES for Gentlemen, walking 1 ,4 s. 6d.
per pair
KID GLOVES for Gentlemen evening, 4s. Gd. and
ss. per pair
KID GLOVES for Ladies, Kid Gauntlets, 3s. to 10s.
per pair
KID GLOVES for Ladies, Gauntlets, velvet tops
KID GLOVES, fur tops, Gauntlets, lined
KID GLOVES for Misses, in every variety.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Oiticura
I^o
5$
7M
[O
to.
*V\
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scrofula on neck
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DISFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Bore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, ,ire
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura So kP
externally.
Bad Blond, Scrofulous, Inherited and Con ta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscess es,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scur' ry,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Orgas as,
Dropsy, Erys f pelas, Entemia, Pyaemia, Leucorrhc sa,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Consti] >a-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising fr< >m
an Impure or 1m poverishod condition of the Blo< )d,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies!..
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consult) te
repeat this story : I have been a terrible suffei er
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have be en
obliged to shun public places by means of my d ia-
flguring humors; have had the best physiciai us;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no ri tal
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent whi eta
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pu re
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the Now Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
•Telly for external use), instantly allays Itching- and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fieshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, orany other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resouvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston,
V.S.A.
[?]
Mrs. Hampson contemplates another trip
to Australia.
Jacobson, the retiring Bishop of Chester,
was originally a Methodist minister.
Ridding, who gets the new See of South-
well, is son-in-law of the Lord Chancellor—which
accounts for the milk in the eocoa-nut.
Clerics are queer cattle, They get up a
service of welcome to a fellow and expect him to
preach the sermon 1 which is like asking a man to
dine, and making him clean the knives and wait at
table.
The entire receipts to the credit of the
Chinese Mission in Victoria, for the month of
February, was just £7 Is. sd. They can’t expect to
save many souls—even Chinamen’s—with a paltry
amount like that. Soul-saving wants capital, and
plenty of it, according to all church statistics.
The Bishop of Lichfield (Maolagan) having
been called to the House of Lords, will be obliged,
as junior bishop, to discharge the duties of
chaplain. Bishop of one of tne most populous
dioceses, he must give up his proper work for half
the year, in order to do work which might just as
well be done by a curate.
Bishop Thornton’s remark that “although
bis lordship of Sydney had no legal supervision
over the Balla-a-rat diocese, he would exercise an
influence which might be the more useful since it
was not strictly defined ” was winged with equi-
voque, since it evidently implied that in those dio-
ceses, over which his lordship had legal super-
vision, his influence, being strictly defined, would
be—ahem—the less useful.
The Bishop of London has sentenced Lim-
pus, Vicar of Twickenham, found guilty of intem-
perance, to three years’ suspension, the reverend
(!) gentleman to retain the use of the vicarage
house. We could get a big moral out of this item
of news had we time to fix it up. Old Isaiah wasn’t
far out when he wrote of parsons generally:—
“They are shepherds that cannot understand; they
all look to their own way, every one for his gain.
Come lye, say they, I will fetch wine and we will
fill ourselves with strong drink, and to-morrow
Shall be as this day and much more abundant.”
Humph! Monsignor Lynch, late Roman
Catholic Dean of Campbelltown, died worth more
money than we, who are worldly and not vowed to
poverty—except incidentally through our profes-
sion as journalists—ever saw or are ever likely to
see. Like a good churchman, he left several thou-
sands to his church and various institutions con-
nected with it, but not a penny to the poor, unless
indirectly, perhaps, in bequests to the Sisters of
Mercy and the Sisters of the Good Samaritan. But
maybe he considered that in leaving money to the
poor he would be taking from them their best
claim to spiritual riches in the next world. Ad-
mirable forethought in a dying man, wasn’t it ?
THE DISTRUSTFUL WORSHIPER.
When Gladstone, the dispatches say.
Goes privately to church to pray,
He stations a policeman there,
That none may interrupt the prayer
With dynamite, that new invention
To catch a minister’s attention.
If 1 were talking face to face
With God, in His own holy place,
Upon my bended knees, my baek
Exposed to cowardly attack,
My trust in Him were much diminished
If He’d not guard me ’till I’d finished.
The Newcastle Fletcher-’anby pleads
for orthodoxy in the most abject-lachrymose
manner. Says she:—“ When we give up the dear
and ancient fallacies, with what shall we replace
them? Surely the emptiness of nothing caanot
fill the void in the mind or heart aching for some-
thing in which to believe 1 Is it necessary to
destroy even illusions when they mean restful
peace, the soul’s content, and a gentle reverence
begotten of happy child-memories ? ” It is useless
to argue with an ass who conceives that illusions
can mean “ restful peace ” to any one but a dis-
honest mind or “ content ” to any *• soul ” but that
of a base man to whom truth has no value. One
can respect the honest believer who in his ignor-
ance hugs a gross superstition, but save us from
the time-serving advocate of “ dear and ancient
fallacies.”
Bishop Barry says we all want “such a
theology as will enable us to maintain the sove-
reignty of the truths of Christ, but which will,
nevertheless, harmonise with all the forms of truth
which God teaches man through other mediums,
and which will bring into union with the supreme
power of Christ the great natural gifts with which
God has endowed us.” That sounds very fine, but
Just you analyse it and you’ll see it evinces a far
greater desire to have Truth on the Anglican side
than, as the one prime essential, to have Anglican-
ism on the side of Truth. ’There wouldn’t be very
much difficulty in harmonising the few simple
truths of Christ with all the forms of truth taught
us through other mediums; where the whole
trouble consists is in endeavouring to harmonise
the abstruse dogmata of the “ Christian theology ”
with, say, for choice, physics and physiology I
An exchange says :—“ A disciple of Brad-
laugh called upon to give evidence at the Red fern
Court on Monday, refused to take the oath, but
consented to the administering of an affirmation.
Mr. Crane v as equal to the occasion, and the pre-
cedent of Gladstone, Northcote, and the British
House of Commons notwithstanding, allowed the
witness to affirm. The freethinkers will applaud.”
Certainly. And so will every right-minded man
and woman applaud. If a man be a disbeliever in
the Almignty, there could be no greater wicked-
ness perpetrated by those who do believe in Him
than their compelling the unbeliever to swear by
what to him is a myth. It would not hurt the
witness particularly, but to him, and to every
other sensible person, the idea must appear pre-
Eosterously ridiculous, and the result must be as
armful to the cause of religion as to society and
the State.
The Northern Thadeus, aflame with
Indignation at the unco-guidness of sundry true
blue Presbyterians who essay to rule the roast at
Charters Towers, declares truly enough that “it is
absurd for any Police Magistrate to convert a
digging township into a ‘ Sawbath ’ conventicle.
He should set his face against laws passed in the
reign of tne Stuarts, and dismiss charges brought
by constables who are crawling for promotion by
seconding the puritan predilections of their
superior officers. If the police want to make
themselves useful, let them pick up the horse-
planters and cattle-duffers in the district, and keep
our streets free of foul language. But as for
crawling round public houses on Sunday nights,
they should despise such work. There are many
decent men in the force, but they are passsed by
and neglected because they don’t stoop to curry
favour with the gospel-grinders and devil-dodgers.
Possibly after a time here ‘whistling’ on the
‘ Sawbath ’ will be a disorderly offence, and liable
to fines and penalties. By his easy credence of
some ‘mimbers of the foorce,’ he encourages this
canting spirit, and unduly vexes the souls of Her
Majesty’s peaceful subjects.”
“ And nowhere, I am sure, at this moment,
Will that loyalty be more touched with a tinge of
sympathy with our Sovereign in the judgment with
which God has been pleased to visit her.” Thus
the Bishop of Sydney to the Anglicans of Mel-
bourne, they responding to the sentiment (accord-
ing to the special correspondent of the Rum) with
“loud applause!” Wnat a sentiment to ap-
plaud, tne visiting of a beloved Sovereign
with a “ judgement ” from on high I Qr,
if that was not the sentiment that fetched the
g umsuckers, what else could it have been save the
adroit flattery which stroked their “loyalty” the
right way? Yet, if it were the flattery that
elicited the applause, what can be said of the
delicacy of feeling that could prompt a lot of soi-
disant gentle folks to loudly applaud a compliment
personal to themselves at a time when a solemn
Bilence beßt fitted the episcopal assertion that
Albany’s death was a judgment on their Queen ?
Any way you take it, that “loud applause” was
an offence against good manners. As for the
Bishop’s cool remark that the Prince’s death was
a judgment on Her Majesty, we can only charac
teriso it as grossly un-Christian. Christ distinctly
repudiated the idea that violent deaths were
judgments on those who perished—a fortiori de-
nouncing the blasphemy that would declare that
the death of one man is a judgment upon some-
body else. For Dr. Barry’s sake we hope it will
turn out that the Rum’s special is answeiable for
that fatal “judgment.”
A Mr. Lord, a late resident of Samoa, has
been giving a course of lectures in San Francisco
on those islands and this is the very warm cup of
tea he serves up to the missionaries with regard
to their “ work in the vineyard.” Speaking of the
pious converted Samoan, this is how he hits,
straight from the shoulder "He has no govern-
ment exoeptja nondescript sham which’.was imposed
upon him three years ago by the guns of a man-
of-war, in pursuance of a conspiracy of theee un-
principled consuls. He has no roads or bridges.
He lives almost without clothes in the same house
and in the same way in which he has always lived.
Ho is indolent and idle, without occupation of
mind or body. He has not even the industries
that he used to have, for many things that were
formerly manufactured by the people are now
dispensed with or supplied by traffic. He has not
added to his virtues, but, by association with oad
white men, has gained some vices. He is not as
honest, genuine, and childlike as he formerly was.
He has acquired some of the cunning of the
serpent, without counteracting by the harmless-
ness of the dove. He does not know the meaning
of chastity, and it cannot be instilled into him,
beoause, in his present condition, he naturally can-
not see the sign of its opposite. Ah I but it may
be said that his soul is saved! Well, that we don’t
know certainty, and I propose to speak only of
what we do know. But if his soul is saved with
the amount of piety it now contains, it never
would have been lost at all. He may have re-
ceived all the outward embellishments of the
Gospel; but he is nothing but a gilded heathen at
the best. As Mark Twain says, ‘ wickedness exists
only in reality, not in name.’ Nearly all the
people go through the stated religious observ-
ances, and contribute liberally to the local mission
and the London Missionary Society; but church-
going and prayers are the fashion, and generosity
is nature. The essential character of the people
is unchanged. The Earl of Pembroke very truly
says: * The native leads two lives—a church and a
natural one.’ Every family in the land has prayers
morning and night, but they adjourn from
evening prayer to attend lascivious dances and
obscene entertainments.” After this let us pass
round the plate to raise funds to re-convert the
converted Samoan. Hallelujah.
Father Mackonoohie, the Anglican ritual-
ist, forced by the logic of facts to see that heXiught
not any longer to impoverish further a parish (St.
Peter’s, London) far too impoverished already by
its own circumstances, by keeping from it the in-
come (£330) which is due to it from the Ecclesias-
tical Commissioners, has asked the Bishop of
London to allow him to withdraw from the bene-
fice.” Mackonochie commenced his ritualistic
practices at St. Alban’s, Holborn, in 1867. The
case of Martin v. Mackonochie was begun in De-
cember, 1868 ; it lasted 14 days ; the verdict was
for the plaintiff—the use of incense, mixing water
with the wine, and elevation of the elements being
forbidden. On appeal, the verdict was confirmed.
In 1869, Maokonocnie was .censured by the Privy
Council for evading the sentence, and, subse-
quently, suspended for three months. In 1874,
Martin prosecuted a new suit against Mackonochie,
and got him suspended for six weeks. Under the
Public Worship Regulation Act (assented to
August, 1874), after being warned in March, ’7B,
Mackonochie was, in June of that year, suspended
for three years for disobedience to the monition of
the Court of Arches. Then came his recent
troubles: and now comes his ca /ing in to the
focused intensity of Anglican Erastianism. Mac-
konochie, who is an earnest, hardworking man of
saintly life, has thus, by sinning by excess against
an absurd law, been prosecuted out of a Church
which never goes out of its way to prosecute those
of its clerics who sin by defects against the same
measure. Even “ Mass in Masquerade ” isn’t so
bad as “ Hypocrisy in Lawn.”
Dr. Samuel Kinns, the author of “ Moses
and Geology,” in a lecture which he lately de-
livered at Canterbury (Eng.), before the cathedral
clergy, asserted that his views bad been verified by
persons of scientific eminence holding posts of re-
sponsibility in the British Museum—by Dr. Wood-
ward, of the geological, and Mr. Carruthers, of
the botanical department. What must have been
Kinns’ feelings, and the indignation of Canter-
bury's cathedral clergy, and the mirth of the un-
orthodox, when, a few days afterwards, letters
from Woodward and Carruthers appeared in the
London Times totally denying Kinn’s soft im-
peachment? Wrote Woodward, after denying
that any of Dr. Kinns’ statements had been
submitted to himself or his colleagues “ I must
add that I deeply regret to find so many excellent
men have been induced to accept Dr. Kinns upon
his own representations as a scientific authority,
and to give credence to his personal estimate of
himself as a geologist. Every careful reader of
his book, entitled ‘Moses and Geology,’is suffici-
ently guarded against the claim set up by its
author to be alight in soience.” Wrote Carruthers,
oruelly “ Dr. Kinns has frequently visited the
Department of Botany, and consulted myself and
my colleagues, and while we have pointed out
some of his errors we have never testified to the
accuracy of any of his facts. . . The Geo-
logical Society has refused the doctor admission
to its ranks. . . . He Kinns) adds to his
name F.R.A.S. I cannot believe that the gross
ignorance manifested in his book can bo found in
any fellow in the Astronomical Society besides
Samuel Kinns.” This was “a little more than
Kinns ” expected, and less than kind 1 Kinns, it
will be remembered, was one of Spicer's chief
authorities when that green young curate cham-
pioned authodoxy on Sydney platforms. Since
the strength of a chain is the strength of its
weakest link, even if the Spicerian arguments
contained nothing feebler than what they bor-
rowed from Kinns, they must be admitted to fail
just there—and failure there is as fatal to Spicer’s
“ harmonies” as a false premiss to the theory built
on it. But, apart from the foolish Spicer and his
collapse, the moral of Kinns’ “bowl-out” is of
wide application.
• * •
Oh! Gbanmy, Granny, you are incorri-
gible. You say:—“The cause of the long delay
which has taken place in the confirmation of Dr.
Moran’s appointment, has arisen out of the strong
opposition of the Dominicans to his nomination.
The See of Sydney has hitherto been held by a
Dominioan, and the Pope would willingly break
through this practice, but the members of the
latter order are bringing strong pressure to bear
to prevent this." Surely your very “devils”
should know that Polding and Vaughan were
Benedictines It is currently reported that
Bishop Law and Archbishop Price, lately raised to
this position by the celebrated yet to be Master
Warden of the City of Launceston, are to be pho-
tographed in conjunction with their noble patroD,
and that the photographs are to be distributed
for the benefit of the South Sea Islanders ...
Rev. Scott Holland gets the canony of St. Paul’s,
vacant by Dr. Stubb’s promotion John W.
Rogers, Inspector of Catholic Schools, handles the
pen of a ready writer. His treatment of “ Historic
Accuracy” was extremely neat, specially that
little rub about the “spurious loyalty ” and “ real
intolerance ” of a large per centage of the Pro-
testant majority.. .The congregation of the Scott’s
Church, Melbourne, have separated themselves
from the Victorian “ Kirk,” the conservative au-
thorities of which body are in a mighty scot at so
schisujatic a proceeding.


URNITURE SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O'Connell and Spring streets, Sydney*
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
. TABLES, bookcases, secretaires,
READING and LOUNGE CHAiRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
W AEE GABJNETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just reoeived. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
LARGEST STOCK IN
JP „ THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB. O’Conneli-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking: rooms, &c.
TJBDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
JL9 and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suites—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conneli-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 355; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s l Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell ai
Btreets, Sydney.
I and Spring
l
X
■a
■
4?QX PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, &ss. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
CCASIONA'LjT ABLES, elegant
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush,
finished in
f'iHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
A7SY OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
DRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHATHS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Price*., from 13s 6d.
HAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DtNING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 6-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two leaves : LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’b and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
kINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
I ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
Patented.
D 1
3*.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice verm, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. IMie above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instaptly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of Vae body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
RAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
liIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JD TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates!
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Gom
nell-street.
B
W
ASH STANDS, with marble, 36s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairr
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Conneli-street:
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very complete
Assortment; best make, low eat prices.
SOCIAL
Generally, the ideas of outside people on
the subject of Spiritualism are about as correct as
tho notions of a political protege arc of grammar.
That is, they don’t know anything about it. And
as ignorance is the parent of prejudice, they just
go on talking against it with all the vehemence of
David attacking “donkey-worship,” but with not
half as much reason. But there’s lots of fun among
the uncrushed Spiritualists for all that, and last
week they celebrated their 36th anniversary with
as genial a jubilee as any one could wish, even i
he never saw spirits in his life—ardent or other
wise. Mr. Slooombe, leader of the Lyceum, wa
chairman, and the attendance good, though, ai
first sight, there did seem a disheartening prepon
derance of the male element. But we were re
lieved afterwards to discover that there was i
reserve stock of “ fair spirits ” sequestered behinc
the chairman. This was the choir-who gave th
first part of the programme—a concert. Aided b;
accompanists Massie and Herman, the choir san
two choruses, and if their music was not of th
highest classic kind, it was because they chos
something more popular. Mrs. Coker gav
“ When sparrows build ” in a sweet, bel
like voice, and Mr. Garforth exercised a gran
bass voice in another ballad. Other performer
were Mr. Coker: Mr. Waldron, who patheticall
recited “ Little Meg andl; ” Misses Tyerman an
Cockerton, who sang the “ Flower Gatherers;” Mr
Duggan, a fierce declaimer; Mrs. Royal, whos
ballad “’Twas not a dream,” was delivered in
contralto of unusual power; and Mrs. Bayne, wh
read something. We cannot say we heard an;
faults in Mrs. Bayne’s reading. In fact wo didn’
hear anything at all; we couldn’t even hear of any
one else who did. The hall seemed to be about 4
times larger than Mrs. Bayne had any idea ol
Professor Herman’s violin solos were an alterna
tion of fine execution and fantastic bowing, whic
kept the audience laughing. Mr. E. Greville, M.P
after the usual “ looking around on the intelligen
laces and array of fashionably-dressed beauty
which orators find it judicious to start with, Bailee
away into a happy and suitable little speech, and
passing from gay to grave, alluded tenderly to
three well-known companions who had gone from
their ranks during the year; Bowie Wilson, Den
ton, and Oliver. Mr. Wilson, he said, had been the
first prominent promoter of spiritualism in
Sydney. The chairman also asked any one
to drop in any Sunday morning and see wha
the Lyceum did. Then Miss Lily Garton and Mis
Phelps, two small maids, of about 13 years, in
pink and blue, danced hornpipe, jig, and Spanish
dance most deliciously, and each was encored
The dancing of both was a treat, and they evi
dently enjoyed it themselves as much as othen
did. After a comic piece, “ Two minutes 100 late ’
had been cleverly recited by Mr. Slocombe, chairs
were moved and dancing was started, with the
advantages of good music and floor; and while the
elderly ladies drew off in sombre garb to quiet
corners, the gay dresses of the demoiselles were
soon fluttering round in all their spectroscopic
glints of colour. Two Darlinghurst sisters, who
adorn the choir, were prettily dressed in white,
just set off w ith flashes of bright cardinal. A fair,
graceful girl wore an exceedingly nice pale pink
veiling of simple make with ridged sleeves, and
the up-piled hair harmonised well. Another fair
little thing wore an artful blue brocho and white
lace, constructed on bold outlines to attract notice,
and helped with silver ornaments. A navy blue
and a bath-stono coloured broch6 were handsome.
Two relatives were ornamental in blue satin and
veiling and in white. Refreshments were not for-
gotten, and a rather now plan of vending them at
an almost nominal price in an adjoining room was
found to be convenient. The Anal waltz brought
midnight, and all dispersed to seek the shelter of
cloaks and ca’s, and other precautions against the
night air.
• • •
Leap year is a curious device. It would
almost make one think there is something de-
ficient in the scheme of the universe. Well, this
is really so. Leap year was invented by the
almanac poople te balance things It was for two
reasons: to keep our clocks right, and to give the
girls a chance. The clocks, however, are not im-
portant, comparatively. But the girls are. They
are taught by their proper mammas that, in
matters matrimonial, they must on no account
speak unless they’re spoken to. Sometimes, with
a want of taste which wo execrate, the men don’t
speak at all. This peculiar and unaccountable
reticence on the part of a man may spring from
various causes-bashfulness; or he doubts whether
she is good enough; or she hasn't that amount of
money which a man has a reasonable right to ex-
pect when he consents to let a girl marry him.
The first cause is an unusual one. But, anyhow,
the result is the same; the girls remain single. So
the almanac people put in leap year, to balance
things. The fact is, young men don’t do their fair
half of duty in the courting line. And it is a duty
that must not oe allowed to suffer from neglect.
Why, as Mr. Garvan said tho other day, when
labouring undei an attack of picnic poetry—
negleot oourting for but one generation, and the
next generation—well—there won’t be any. It
seems very mean to only give girls one year out of
four, but scientific men who have oarefully
Studied the matter, have come to the conclusion
that ladies transact as much business ia that one
year as men do in the other throe; but it’s done
unobtrusively. They know better how to go about
it. It’s very hard to refuse a lady anything, and
very risky, too. A youth who is really popular
now is in a moßt critical position-considering the
price of silk. Of course a number of mashers pro-
fess to be alarmed: but quite needlessly, they are
in no danger. If, however, any young man feels
that he is endowed with a power of fascination he
cannot possibly subdue, and fears the harbour
being silted up with the heart-broken darlings he
rejects, there is only one safeguard. It is an ex-
treme resort Let him accept the first proposal he
gets. This will save him quite a problematical
bill at the silk-mercer’s, while the country will be
relieved to see a chance of a large percentage of
the brainless and conceited society youths finding
wives who may possibly lick them into shape
before the year ends.
* * *
“ A splendid joke took place at Stanmore
00 All Fools’ Day,” writes a correspondent, who
proceeds to describe the “splendid” joke—a
venerable exhibition of idiotic impertinence,
which demanded on tho part of its perpetrator
neither originality, wit, taste, nor good feeling. It
appears that an individual, inspired by the idea
that the Ist of April was a day when he should
shine, for once in the year, summoned all his
native wit, and was inspired to make an ass of
himself under the idea that he was making fools
of other people. He adopted the threadbare
devloe of sending forged invitations to a tea and
social evening at the house of a Stanmore lady.
To give additional humour to this spirited affair,
he included among the 40 invited five divinity
students and a minister from Leichhardt. This
was surpassing wit indeed. Topeisuade divinity
students and "a minister from Leichhardt ” that
there was no improbability in their being invited
«o a tea-fight was a triumph of ingenuity, because,
wou see, to divinity students and ministers an in-
vitation to a tea-flgnt must have appeared so very
uncommon and suspicious an occurrence. Had
the clever coucocter of the scheme succeeded in
luring the divinity students and “ a miuister from
Leichhardt” to a Clontarf Sunday-school picnic,
with cock-fighting as an extra attraction, and rum
in pannikins for refreshment, there would have
been nothing singular aDout it. But to induej
divinity students and a minister to present them
a fives at a tea and social—hal hal Very smart.
■Ve are tickled also to learn that Mrs. D., being
unprepared for her guests, was driven mad by tho
ringing of the front door bell, and that
Miss Blank “ was to be seen In a most costly dress,
gaveing («'c) and ramping what she would do wltu
the evil-disposed person who had so insulted her.”
We readily infer that Mrs. D. is a widow without
grown-up sons. The point of a joke of this kind is
quite spoiled if there are men in the family
operated on. From the exactitude with which our
correspondent states the number of divinity
students who were invited, we conjecture that he
is himself the gifted author of the delightful inci-
dent, and that if he be not a divinity student, he is
probably the young man with the tape and letter
paper, whom Mrs. D. repulsed with contumely
from the back door, for sidling suspiciously near
the cook's umbrella. If he be, indeed, the author,
we shall be charmed to have a visit from him. We
are so anxious to learn from a gentleman who
makes unprotected ladies the butt of his season-
able ebullition, whether he should judge that if
there had been a Mr. D. he would have kicked
harder than we kick.
* * *
Rookwood was a livelier place than usual
a few nights back, when a party was given by Mrs.
M‘Nab, to mark Master A. M'Nab’s 16th birthday.
The Temperance Hall was engaged, and well de-
corated, floor and music both good, and the pro-
gramme varied and unique. Kiss out of the Ring
was an item which seemed popular with some
young people. The trains brought visitors from
Sydney, Auburn, Burwood, Parramatta, &c. A
young lady from Parramatta was much admired
as “Patience”; and another dark-eyed beauty
from Sydney secured Watt-ever praise was due to
graceful motion. Two sisters and another local
belle also engaged a large share of notice. At 6
o’clock, ulsters and wraps were in request, and
soon after solemnity reigned around, as usual.
• • •
On Wednesday, 2od instant, Miss Maggie
Fletcher, third daughter of Mr. James Fletcher,
M.P. for Newcastle, was married at the Primitive
Methodist Church, Wallsend, to Mr. Blanchard, a
Sydney gentleman. There was a large gathering
of friends, many of whom had come from Sydney
in a specially chartered steamer to see the cere-
mony and help in the subsequent festivities. The
bride wore a most beautiful dress, composed of
white pluche velours, which was exceptionally
handsome, the jupon being cut into turret blocks
lined with ivory gros grain, lifted into three papil-
lon loops falling over a balayeuse of rich silk
Brussels point lace, under which showed a depas-
This charming ball dress is of peacock blue velvet, richly trimmed with antique
guipure, the scoarf and panel of turquoise blue satin, and the shoulder soarf of crape
m same colour. One of the panels form a panier, whilst the opposite one falls straight,
me bouquets and garniture are of Gloire de Dijon roses.
saint of pluche, the whole then surmounted with
deep Vandykes of the same beautiful lace, each
Vandyke caught with clusters of orange blossom,
clematis, jessamine, and myrtle. Panier scarf
caught on left side with bouquet of bridal flowers.
The bodice was of the Princess form continued
into a court train of magnificent proportions,
trimmed with three lace balayeuses surmounted
with turret blocks, Vandykes of lace to match the
skirt, and twining trails of clematis, jessamine,
and myrtle, with here and there a glimpse of
orange blossom. An under train of rich gros grain
edged with pinked ruches of same and lace. On
left side of train was placed a superb trail com-
posed of bridal flowers intermixed with rich
grasses, commencing at waist it fell to outer
edge of train. The bodice, which was close
to the neck, was most tastefully finished
with a necklet of the smallest white flowers
from which fell soft cascades of the same
rich lace. Sleeves finished with duchesse ruff
Veil of silk Brussels richly embroidered and
fastened with a diamond aigrette, wreath of
orange blossoms, jessamine, clematis, myrtle, and
trailing grasses. The bride’s sister, a sparkling
brunette, as first bridesmaid wore a dress of ivory
Sicilienne veiling trimmed with rich ivory chenille
fringe, lace, and bouquets of snowdrops, and
blossoms of dried rose colour. Another brides-
maid wore a very charming toilet of white
mousseline de l’lnde, skirt tucked to the waist,
outer edge of deep bretonne lace; Turkish scarf
of rose pink surah draped at side. There were 13
other bridesmaids, some very petite, in blue and
white and pink and white, each carrying daiaty
baskets of flowers. There were also some very
handsome toilettes among the guests. The bride s
mother wore a uress of uried rose coloured broohe
and satin bonnet to match. The bride’s travelling
dress was of moss-green velvet and chenille trim-
mings, postilion hat with tropical birds to match.
The trousseau contained some lovely toilettes.
After the ceremony, a rich breakfast was fouud
spread in a pavilion specially erected at Style’s
Grove, where Mr. Fletcher resides. Speeches,
humorous, hesitating, hopeful, and hearty, were
given; and at night there was a large ball, the
guests dancing the night away in the highest
spirits.
• • •
The Rue Royale gambling scandal is to be
hushed up ! High influences, some of which are
lemmiie, have been brought to bear on those
! charged with the investigation of the affair.
! There are a great many Princes members of the
Hue Royale Cercle. It is not true that the title of
the one who has been accused of being a grec is
not French. The Vioomte was brought up by the
late Bishop of Orleans. He used to pass for a petit
sai7it. Toe Cercle Royale is the club most partic-
ularly frequented by diplomatists. A Republican
has never crossed the door as a member, and of
this the Rue Royalists are very proud. This club
is called Le Petit Jockey and Les Mnutards. Paris
clubs, of which there are seventy-two authorised,
can only exist by the card tables. A large number
of gamesters are certain to be ruined, and when
they are penniless, they are as certain to combine
to oheat. In the great clubs, mitts blanches are
very frequent— i.e , gamblers sit up all night and
continue playing through the forenoon and after-
noon. Those club servants known as valets de
jeux, who furnish the cards, buy their places of dis-
honest managers and committeemen at high prices,
and yet make large fortunes rapidly. Menials of
this class are often members of cent.-per-cent.
“ banking ” Arms. When they have net money of
their own to lend, they tell hampered gamblers
where they may borrow. The indirect profits of
the servant who provides players with packs of
cards, and helps them, by marking tnem, to
swindle, are often greater than the direct. The
most costly Parisian club is the Jockey. To enter
there, one pays 1050 f., and 600 f. a year, of which
100 f. is a turf subscription. As it does not do to
burn the candle at both ends, jeux d'enfer are not
encouraged there. The glory to some extent of
the Cercle des Champs Elysiies (formerly Cercle
■ Imperial) is departed. But its cuisine retains its
old superiority. The gambling is brisk, and the
cagnotte enormous. This club is no longer a
market of olfiolal sinecures and emoluments, as it
used to be in the reign of the late Emperor Mem-
bership costs 300 f. a year and 300 f. entrance-fee.
The Rue Royale is dearer, the subscription being
350 f. and the fee 400 f. L’Union is called ‘‘the
terror of mothers and wives who have fortunes to
lose.” The annual payment there is 500 f. Russians
are the best clients at gambling tables, then
Hungarians, after whom come Spanish Americans
and sons of rich Americans ; and, fourthly,
Roumanians. Russian ladies are passionately fond
of gambiing. French ladies gamble on the Bourse.
The American adventuress is nearly always more
or less a card-sharper. She finds her match in a
certain class of Jewesses. Spanish American and
Mexican ladies delight in the sensations of a jcu
d’enfer.
* * * *
Tailor-made garments have long been
popular and "chio* among ladies, and this class of
f oods has reached its best in the “ masher ” dress,
tis a favourite in London, and will probably be
so here during the coming winter, for in spite of
the horrid name, it is one of the neatest or cloth
dresses. There is no trimming on the skirt, the
only thing saving it from perfect plainness being
the rows of stitching which form the wide hems,
and a broad double box-pleat in front. The back
is merely a heavy drapery of artistic folds. But
the body is the distinctive feature of the “masher. ’
The jaunty round jacket has pockets on each hip,
and the left breast, and fastens exactly like a
gentleman’s paget coat, just across the chest.
Beneath, the waißtcoat shows, separately made,
and buttoned down the front with small, bullet-
shaped buttons. The coat collar has stitched lap-
pels, and.turns back, like a man’s, to show the
waistcoat. The sleeves are plain, with a single
row of stitching round, and a couple of buttons.
A great success is predicted, for the “masher.”
Well, perhaps so; but we can’t help thinking that
a man hurrying on what he takes to be Ms clothes,
and rushing madly to catch the tram at the corner,
would feel awkward when he discovered that his
ooat fitted him too much round the waist and not
enough anywhere else.
• • •
The City Bank, Pitt-street, was, on Thurs
day evening last, the 3rd instant, the scene of a
brilliant gathering of the friends of Mr. William
Neill (the manager) and Mrs. Neill, who had issued
invitations for a dance in honour Qf the recent
return of Miss Neill from her trip to Europe. The
spacious board-room of the Bank was converted
iato an elegantly decorated ball salon, the supper
room also receiving every attention in the matter
ut fiorai and other ornamentation. Lancing com-
menced at about hail-past eight, and was con-
tinued, with short intermissions, till about 3 p.m ,
wnen guests regretfully parted. The music
(Sauerbier) was good, and, as 1b now becoming the
rule, voluntary “extras” were contributed by
several present, these also proving acceptable,
which same remark will apply to a very rtcherche
(For continuation of Social, see next page.)


The magnificent dress made for Miss
Fletcher’s bridal ceremony, and the other lovely
costumes in her trousseau, described In our social
columns, were turned out of the establishment of
Messrs. Hordern Brothers, Pitt-street.
fcs
RSFSESSI
HO
4*
P
ACID
Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Hereford, of Cambridge, Maas.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &C.
kw No Danger can Attend its Use.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
. Sandusky. 0., May 31, 1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
t . . .. Boston, Mass.. May 18,1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all oases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
Horsford’s Add Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, ana always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, * it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, ana is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Con be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomaehs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Add Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed ft with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
exoellent substitute for Lemon juice, and as such
will furnish a refreshing Urink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£agric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may bo Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm.”
It la not an oily, greasy or sticky substanoe, bu
GLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy It gives the weakened and
overstrained oords and muscles new life and
tloity, curing pains as water quenches Are. It cures
Sprains, Headache, Soiatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neok or Back.
As an Internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures CoUc,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Bn.
therla.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIO
OIL In the house, or on hand for immediate use la
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Bold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers Is
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best Imported Into this country, and have
gained throughou the oolonles such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand.
ard make
Beoause the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway Iron, severely tested betoie
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of th© be ft No. ]
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used In their hnish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under s»eoial
Instructions to, and personal supervision of
one of the leading carriage builders in Am erica!
and specially constructed for the Ausfra'iaa
ollmate
And beoause all who use thorn say thbt arm tbm
BIST.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON .MOXHAM * CO.,
tolar Asfn»
supper, which was laid to tempt the most dainty.
Oi the ladies, so many were worthy of notice for
the elegance of their dresses that it is a matter of
some difficulty to select specially, but, with"
out doubt, the wife of a Sydney univer-
sity Professor looked remarkably well in white
brochd with Elizabethan collar set with pearls,
hair powdered; and Mrs. Hoffnung, in crushed
strawberry brochd, iwasa “study in diamonds.”
In a black corded silk with short sleeves and court
train, black and gold brocaded velvet body, hair
effectively powdered, the dashing wife of a (now)
Macquarie-street medico attracted no small amount
of attention; as did also the distinguished wife of
a popular auctioneer and M.P., the lady wearing a
handsome cream brochd trimmed with lace and
blush roses. White, with waterfalls, uited the
two daughters of a late official assignee, both of
■whom were excellent dancers. The same may be
said of two young ladies with distinctly Scottish
prefixes, hailing from Ultima TTmle, or, rather,
Ultimo. One wore a creamy white surah silk, with
waterfall; the other, black chemille net over old
gold satin—a waterfall was also made good use of.
Miss Neill wore a rich cream surah ailk extensively
trimmed with lace; while her two sisters looked
charming—the one in pink moir<S antique (of a
delicate shade) trimmed with Breton lace, the
other in black lace over old gold. Two regal
sisters also noticeable—one in pale pink satin, the
other in pale blue satin. The “ Sir Koger ” (played
by an amateur) was danced with considerable
vivacity, and terminated a very enjoyable evening.
• ■ •
One of the objections raised by opponents
of dancing is, that it leads into expense. There is
some truth in this. In many cases there is more
expense incurred than is necessary. To the few,'
favoured by fortune, this is a matter of no impor-
tance; indeed, such ones usually gauge their sup-
posed enjoyment by what is spent, and feel mean
at the idea of patronising any entertainment that
is not costly. This is intelligible enough. If
people have money to spare, they may surely pay
dearly for a thing if they particularly want to.
Money, at a ball, as anywhere else, carries certain
advantages : it can please the eye with brilliancy
of show, it can buy all of the best kind, it can
ensure some degree of selectness, and afford a com-
fortable consciousness of vour own importance. It
even sheds an air of virtue around persons who
would, if poor, never be suspected of any merit
whatever. But these ideas lead to bitterness. You
will see they are not the reflections of one burdened
with wealth. All are not favoured by fortune; so
the mass of people, when they seek the ways of
pleasantness, have to consider also the means. It
does not follow because expenses are watched that
pleasure is curtailed. There is as much enjoyment
at many a guinea ball, where youth is not too
worldly-wise,as there is at Vanderbilt’s magnificent
folly. There is a strong tendency now to the Cinder-
ella style of party, and for good reasons. As a rule,
pretentious toilettes are not thought so necessary
as for a full ball; and there is no need, when break-
ing up early, for an elaborate supper-table ; ex-
pense is diminished ; and health certainly gains by
a little refreshing sleep before morning. More
people suffer from over-fatigue at “ grand balls ”
than care to admit it. Most suburbs have their
social gatherings of this kind now, not exactly
Cinderellas, for they do not break the spell at the
stroke of midnight, but they seldom continue
much beyond one o clock. One in Sydney is the
Bachelor’s Assembly, which has been freshly con-
stituted from last year. The committee studied
to arrange for the best entertainment without im-
posing large expense, and they have succeeded
admirably. To avoid any crowding, the member-
ship is limited, and, last Friday, when the second
assembly was held, about ICO dancers sped round
Nithsdale rooms from 8 o’clock to about one. The
catering was done carefully and well, and here the
advantage of being uncrowded was especially
apparent. It is only too seldom one gets com-
fortably served at a ball-room supper-table.
Music was provided by Mr. E. Needs and three as-
sistants, and the programmes wero well built.
Some dresses were rich, and there was a deal of
eolour, yet none looked better than two or three
of the simple ones. Altogether, the rooms were
bright and pleasant, and the M.C.’s looked well
after the floor, but tho ladies were a little in the
minority, and consequently rose in value.
Mr. John Woods, who is going to Europe,
was banqueted at Compagnonl s rooms on Friday
last. Few citizens are better known, and it was
natural to And around the glittering tables a
gathering well representing the “solid” men of
the city. Mr. Dailey was chairman, supported on
either side by the guest and the Mayor; and
Messrs. J. Sutherland and H. George were vice-
chairmen. When the disappearance of the elabo-
rate culinary creations from the board had proved
that a thing of beauty is not always a joy for ever,
the chairman proposed “Mr. John Woods,” who,
coming to the colony thirty years ago, unburdened
with money, but with a spirit of independence
and industry, had worked through his commercial
enterprise into an honourable position. He de-
sired them to wish him a happy voyage home and
back. The “ solid ” representatives then bent their
elbows as one man, sang “ He’s a jolly good fel-
low,” and thumped the table, with all the vigour
and din that a refined civilisation decrees as proper
and necessary in such cases. Mr. John Woods
replied that it was one of the happiest evenings
of his life. He was going on a trip to his native land
that he loved with all his heart, where he first saw
the day, and where his parents rest, and he hoped
the children he had reared in Australia would love
their native land as he loved his. He had worked
hard himself, and he thought that a walking stick,
a pipe, and kid gloves are not the most desirable
outfit for a young man to fight the battle of life.
Better if more boys worked at useful trades. He
thanked his friends for their good wishes. More
vehement thumping by the now open-hearted
convivialists followed Mr. Woods’ speech. Mr.
Hardie proposed the Parliament, for which six
eloquent legislators proudly responded. This
made people so tired that even Mr. Edward Han-
lan’s reply to the Ladies’ toast failed to seem bril-
liant, and the guests soon left.
• • *
The North Shore Rowing Club are first in
the field again. Their third annual ball takes
place on Thursday, 5?,h June, at Needs’s Jtooms;
and Mr. Harry Robey, hon. sec., will endeavour to
make it the best yet. Mr. Edward Hanlan will be
present. Now, girls 1
• • •
The Sydney Morning Herald staff ban-
queted Mr. J. R. Fairfax, one of the proprietors,
on Saturday, at Botany, on his return from Eng-
land. With him at table sat Mrs. and Miss Fairfax,
also Messrs. E. R. and C. Fairfax. The chair was
filled by the editor, Dr. Garran, who proposed the
guest’s health, and Mr. J. R. Fairfax replied. The
eads of the various departments of the paper
also spoke, and they all seemed highly delighted
with one another and life in general. As heavy
rain fell, amusements were mostly restricted to
dancing in the pavilion, to a brass band.
• • •
The ball to be given by the Hon. James
and Mrs. White, at the Exhibition Building next
week, is expected to be a large and fashionable
affair. Mr. White’s large acquaintance In sporting
as well as social circles, together with the fact that
the ball takes place during race week, when hun-
dreds of wealthy people visit the metropolis, will
ensure a gathering such as can seldom be got
together. Some most elaborate toilets are being
prepared, and the building is now being renovated
bo as to be fit for a big and brilliant assembly.
• . •
About ten weeks ago there was a marFiage
at Torquay (Eng.) a word or two concerning whkh
will be of interest to Sydney people It oocurred at
St.Lu ke’sChurch in the fashionable watering-plac j,
with full choral service, in presence of a large
gathering. Ihe bridegroom, Mr. H. Stafford
Biscoe (eldest son of Mr. W. E. Biscoe, Holton
Park, Oxford), was in Sydney last year, and is now
a near relative of the Sandemau family of this
city. And it is additionally interesting to know
that the bride. Miss F. E. Primrose (only child of
the late F. N. Primrose, Bixley Hall, Norfolk), is a
cousin of our late distinguished visitor, Lord
Rosebery. She was dressed in a handsome ivory
duchess satin, trimmed with Brussels lace, and
was attended by six bridesmaids in pale blue em-
broidered muslin and cream lace. After break-
fast, Mr. and Mrs Stafford Biscoe left Torquay
en route i to Westfield, Hayling Island, lent to them
for the honeymoon by Mrs. Sandeman, the bride-
KTOom’s grandmother; and it is not improbable
that they may soon visit the colonies.
_ _ Sydney, Wednesday.
Sly Dear Belle,— lt was unfortunate that the
Western Suburbs Musical Society gave their con-
cert so soon after the Liedertafel. At any time it
would have been but a poor concert; but with
strains of “The Desert” and “Nazareth” still in
our ears, it was like drinking “ lemon squash ”
after “ Italian champagne.” And this society used
to give very enjoyable concerts, too, and i can’t
think whose fault it is that it has fallen off so
much. Even the handful of Liedertafel members
who kindly assisted the other night must needs
MR. JOHN WOODS.
bad boys!—break down in one of the part songs.
If their conductor had been there he would have
torn his hair with rage at their shortcomings.
Nevertheless, without their aid what was bad
would have been worse. There was no orchestra
at all, and nearly all the glees have been so re-
peatedly sung by the same society, that the wonder
is that they are not as tired of singing them as we
are of hearing them. The gentleman who has
kindly been acting as conductor for the society
for the last half-year is at last disheartened by the
way in which his efforts have been met, and has, I
believe, resigned. Whether the society will pull
together again, or utterly collapse, is a question
which has yet to be settled; but it is truly a pity
that in such a musical suburb a decent society
cannot be supported. Ashfleld—sleepy Ashlield-
has no society at all (musical society, of course, I
mean), but I always heard that the Burwoodites
were sociable, energetic, ana musical; but, after
their concert last week, I find it hard to believe it.
We went to the organ recital the other night,
which was given in the Bourke-street church,
Surry Hills. The “ Wedding March ” was the first
item on the programme, but as we were late we
missed it, and I heard someone say that in conse-
quence of the death of the Duke of Albany, the
“ Dead March ” was substituted. It was so queer
to play the National Anthem before the close of
the reoital. We instinctively prepared to go—and
speaking of the National Anthem, reminds us that,
at three different concerts lately, I have noticed
people deliberately walk out as soon as “ God Save
the Queen ” was struck up. I have no doubt these
people would be horrified were they accused of
being disloyal, and of course I know it is only
thoughtlessness, but it looks bad—very bad.
Aunt Priscilla has been down for the last lew
days, and, of course, she drags me about with her
everywhere, and you know what it is to go shop-
ping with her. She wanted some now drawing-
rooni carpets, so we went to an establishment
which has recently been very much enlarged; and
tnere they showed us some carpetiDg, the designs
of which represented real scenery. There was
one which reminded me very much of Fern-tree
Gully, in Melbourne, where we used to picnic, but
aunt, in her usual fashion, turned u n her nose at
them all, and would have nothing but the old-
fashioned styles. Keally, these carpets are works
of art, and most of them have been photographed,
so when you want new carpets I can get the photo-
graphs for you, so that you can make a choice.
Well, I was rather disgusted with my venerable
aunt, so strolled to the door, and my ruffled feel-
ings were soothed by hearing an Italian street
musician play the most delicious bird waltz I ever
heard. I never heard so true an imitation of the
chromatic twitterings and trillings of birds. Of
course, it was only trick-playing, but it fascinated
me somehow. The rogue saw his music pleased
me, for he whispered something to the harp-man,
Avho promptly thrust under my nose a very dirty,
greasy hat, at the same time demanding *' money.’’
Just at that moment aunt came rushing out of the
shop, exclaiming, “Mab, my dear Mab, how very
vulgar ! Listening to a dirty street player ! What
would your dear papa say ?” I replied that my
papa would very likely give my Italian some
money, but she didn’t take the hint, and was
awfully stiff all the way home, and I know I shall
hear of it again.
I hear Professor West’s new rooms are at last
finished, so lovers of dancing will be jubilant. It
is said they are the best rooms in the colonies, and
that the boards are on springs and beautifully
planed. All around the principal room are im-
mense mirrors, so that the dancers can observe
their feet as they trip along. I believe the Pro-
lessor is very fastidious about his dancing floor,
and will not have the space of a pin’s point be-
tween the boards if he can help it.
The morbid curiosity of some girls is something
disgusting. We were going up the line one day
last week to pay some visits, when, at one of the
stations where the train stopped, some one ex-
claimed, “Oh, look! there’s a man been killed, or
hurt, or something.” Would you believe it?—
nearly every girl in the carriage rushed on to the
platform to see what she could see of the dead or
dying man 1 But they were well punished for their
pains, for the gentlemen who had relinquished
their seats in the over-crowded carriage, so that
these gentle creatures might sit, with one accord
took possession of them again, and very foolish
the girls looked when they, upon returning to the
carriage, saw how matters stood. I wonder what
men think of girls who exhibit such coarse feeling!
I should imagine they would think twioe before
choosing the like for wives.
Now that the wet weather has really come, there
are no nice dresses to be seen on the Block. Last
week, though, I saw a few which struck me as
being tasteful. There was a sulphur-coloured
veiling skirt, with a wide band of deep brown
velvet run through straps all round. The short
jacket was of velvet and trimmed with rich
chenille fringe, small brown chenille bonnet with
sulphurand brown plumes. A datk green velveteen
dress was very comfortable-looking, with hat to
match, a buff glove with deep gauntlets. A fawn
cashmere looked nice on a pretty blonde with ruby
velvet trimming and a tippet to the waist made
entirely of the velvet, The beautiful frosted
velvet makes a lovely trimming for dresses, and
is much used for the fashionable short capes.
Rich broches still hold their own, but for the
coming season there is to be a great run on velvets
of all descriptions. Parasols are now embellished
with chenille fringe. It strikes me the chenille
rage will not last, as it is being rather overdone,
but I must own it is a most effective trimming
Bronze boots and shoes are again worn, but I only
like them in conjunction with a bronze toilet
For instance, with your bronze satin aud ottoman
velours, they would be just the the thing. I saw
some paisley four-in-hands yesterday, which look
as stylish as they are comfortable, and can be worn
with any dress, dmall fur tipputs are also being
shown in great variety in all the shop windows
Those immense black ones I used to dislike very
much, for they always looked to me so clumsy and
unbecoming, but this year they are principally
in silver grays and golden browns, &0., and are
more shapely looking altogether.
Here’s Aunt coming upstairs to see why mv
light is burning so late into the night. I wonder
why old people will fuss about such trifles. How-
ever, here she is; so good night, dear.—Yours
MAR.


rTTHOKOUGHLY SATISFIED THAT IT
JL CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sir,—
I cheerfully add my testimony to the (rood
eflecta deriveable from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in my own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife suffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in the legs, in which
case the result was equally benofleiaL It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
confidently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “ It Conquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
ploy 6 in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£lOO.—A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Vogeler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representatives in various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the effect that the testimonials published by
them in regard to St. Jacobs Oil are not strictly
genuine. Price in N.S.W., Half-a-Crown a bottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS, Sydney,
Wholesale Depot for N.B.W.
That Husband of Mine is three times the man
he was before he began using “Wells’ Health
Renewer.” Druggist* Moses. Moss A Co.. Sydney
flenera) Agents.
Ayer’s Ague Cure not only affords immediate
relief, but it eradicates the malarial poison which
produces the disease, without leaving any injuri-
ous effect, as is the case with quinine and many of
the ague medicines advertised. It is the only
medicine in existence which may be considered an
absolute antidote for fever and ague, and kindred
dlsewe*.
THE DERVISH.
A STORY FOR THE YOUNG.
[FROM THE ARABY OF ARADI.]
DERVISH
was jour-
ney i n g
alone in the
desert*
when three
merchant s
suddenly
met him.
A dervish is a man who doesn’t wash nor work,
and is either found in the market place spinning
round till he is sick enough to prophesy, or else, as
in this case, in the middle of the Sahara, walking
away top speed from work. And the three mer-
chants were out there mounted on cdmels search-
ing everywhere for a man that owed them money.
The Dervish meets the Merchants.
“ You have lost a camel ?” said ho to the mer-
chants. “Indeed we have,” they replied. Was
he lame on the near hind foot?” He
was." "Had he lost a tooth, and had he
lampas very bad?” “Ho had.” “And was
he load 3d with tobacco on one side and ration
sugar on the other? And had he a leaky skin of
whisky?” “It never leaked but one way when
we had him,” they replied; “ but he certainly was
loaded up with sug-*r and tobacco. Now, our
camel was branded C.W.C. What was the brand
on the one you saw ? ” “ Hold on a bit,” said the
dervish, feeling in his pocket for the advertisement
of a reward, “was he lop-eared, and had he a
gallus lip, and what did you say was the reward ?”
“ Reward be damned,” roared the merchants,
“ where is that camel ? ” “My friends,” said the
dervish, “ I have never seen your camel, nor heard
of him but from yourselves. Good afternoon,
I am billed for Timbucboo imrket for a champion
spin this afternoon, and it’s 13JO miles without
water;” and was proceeding on his way when the
merchants said, “No. you don’t,” and bound him
to a camel’s tail. They thus started baok to Cairo,
a distance of 3000 miles, in order to bring him to
Justice. Acc <rding to the Eastern r>ustom, they
travelled at night, and the dervish was compelled
to beguile the time by twisting the camel’s tail lo
make him gee-up, or in discoursing, to the wonder
and amazement of the merchants, on the magnifi-
cent panorama of the heavens, and the relative
merits of the Arabian and the Newtonian astro-
nomies. Many a night, as the camels crunched
solemnly along the sand, and the voice of the
eloquent old prophet behind sang forth the glories
of the creation, would the merchants lift their
devout eyes up to tho star-spangled deeps, and
murmur their devout Blsmillnbs to Mahomet, un-
disturbed by the occasional oaths that were mut-
tered behind when the prephot’s foot dashed
They thus started back to Cairo.
against a camel’s skull, and he had to hop for miles
with no sign from above of a legion of angels to
pick him lip. And when the sun mounted high,
»nd they camped alongside the cool stream, and
the merchants drank Old Tom and played euchre
and sang songs, the poor dervish would stretch his
weary limbs, and wait to catch a nod as soon as the
camel had tired himself out flicking off flies with
him. But through all this time he maintained that he
knew nothing of the missing camel. At Smkat
they reduced his ration from one date stone to
half a one; at Trinkitat it was one quarter of a
date stone, and before leaving Suakim and dash-
ing away towards the Pyramids, he was given a
week of limply licking a date stone with the
alternative at tho end of that period of either con-
fessing or getting a licking himself In vain. He
was abjured by the shadow of the everlasting
Pyramids, and by the holy shades of the kingly
Ptolemies whose bodies lie there in mummied hope
of a reBSurrection. They charged him by whisky
and the beard of the Prophet, by the mosque of
St. Omar and the Crusades, by Saladin and salad
oil, to confess his guilt, and thus regain his liberty:
but he only cried “t« the Justice alone will I
plead.”
* v *
Arrived in Cairo, the merchants only
tarried to pop in at an unexpected hour of the
night to their harems just to see if their suspicions
about the Khedive’s character were justified, and
then, says the Arabian author from whom we
translate, “they forthwith hurried him before
the Cadi. The news of the trial spread
rapidly through the city, and long before
the drunks were disposed of, the court was
crowded. Dervishes from Constantinople, Emirs
from Emuland, J.P.s from Lismore, and poets from
Cornwall and Peru thronged eagerly in. The
papers issued twenty editions as the case pro-
ceeded, and in the mosques the kneeling multi-
tudes poured out their souls for the acquittal of
the holy man till they forgot to look up for the
collection-box. The clergy of the city met, and
set apart an hour when all the spinning dervishes
of the city should assemble near the Exhibition
building, and spin themselves blick in the face,
which they did, “ till,” said the eloquent reverends
of the Caibo Bulletin the church organ—
“ their intercession resembled the infinite row of
bobbins in the factories of Paradise when an extra
inrush of the valiant faithful follows the holy dis-
embowelment of a Christian population.” The
p "isj'ner was undefended. The oath in his case
was taken in the usual fashion demandei of his
cloth—or camel hair—by spinning round in the
dock for one hour while the judge and jury ad-
journed for a nip with the merchants to receive
what was fair between man and man. On re-
assembling, the prisoner was informed that on
searching his wallet, nothing had been found be-
yond a dry crust of cheese and a sardine-tin,
suggestive of explosives. There was not even
wherewithal to send out for a tot of sherbet for
the Bench; but, taking all things into considera-
tion, and having in view his previous good char-
acter—he having never been suspeoted of working,
washing, or in any way bringing discredit on him-
self, the Court merely dispensed with witnesses,
and asked him if he had any objections to the cut
of the new black cap which the Court was about
to put on, and may the Lord have mercy on his
“ Hold,” cried the dervish.
* * *
“Your Worship,” began the dervish, “I
have lived long and alone, and I can find ample
scope for observation, even in a desert.” “ Where
is that camel ?” asked the Judge. “ I knew,” con-
tinued the dervish, "that the camel was lame
from the faint impression his foot had made in the
sand.” “ You will not notice a faint impression
when this Court sets its foot down,” and the Judge
and the merchants laughed. “ I knew he had lost
a tooth, because there was a small tuft of herbage
left uninjured in the centre of its bite. ‘H m,
said the J udge, “ so you looked a gift camel in the
mouth. By heaven, what would you not do with
a horse?" "There were traces of sugar on one
side of the track, and .” " What did you do
with that sugar?’ “Licked it up. and knew it
was ration sugar, because there was no difference
in the taste between it and the sand around where
some tar has been spilt on it. And I knew it was
station tobacco, because I picked up a plug, and
found enough wood in it to boil my billy, and with
the rest of it 1 put out the tire.” At this stage the
Bench received a petition from the grand Mufti of
the Mosque, setting forth that it was the desire of
the brethren that the dervish should be released,
and that, failing compliance with that request, they
feared a popular rising. Attached to the petition
was a cheque for a far larger amount than the
merchant had paid to secure a just judgment. The
Judge, hereupon, ordered the immediate arrest of
the merchants, and had them placed in the dock.
He asked them if they thought the eap he was
about t<> put on would look a bit better tipped
t- me-3ide, and may he Lord have mercy on their
souls. The sentence of the court was that they
receive six hundred strokes on the feet with a
piece of quartering, and then be taken to a saw-
mill and cut ud into short billets. “As for you,”
resumed the Court, passing over to the dervish a
cup of Tooth's best, “ you leave the Court without
a stain on your character, but rather the reverse.
(A murmur of applause here arose in the Court,
“Your Worship,” began the Dervish.
and seven Christians were ‘ run in,’ and had their
feet smashed up.) Go down to posterity, my
friend, until you get into the public school reading
books in all languages, and stand for ever there to
teach the lesson that it is a just and holy thing to
humbug merchants and other busy people with a
lot of balderdash, whenever you want to look
mysterious. But as that sort of thing will not go
down with me, I trust, for your soul’s sake, yeu
will send that camel round to my stable at the
rising of the Court.” “ I know where the plant
is.” returned the dervijh, “ and it shall be done.”
With these words he stopped out amongst the en-
raptured people, began to spin, while a friend went
round with the hat, and spun as long as—well, as
long as this yarn.
THE SEND
MRS. BUKINS’ BURGLAR
“Pa! Pa!” exclaimed Mrs. Bilkins, as she
dug her elbow into the ribs of her sleeping hus-
band.
“Ugh!” groaned the sleeper. “What do you
want ?”
“ His-sh,” said Mrs. Bilkins. " There’s a burglar
in the house.”
“ A. burglar,” soliloquised her spouse as he
pulled the bed clothes over his head; “go and tell
him to cluar out.”
“Hadn’t you better get up and bunt for him?
I’m sure I heard a noise.”
“Hunt for him! Not me. I hain’t lost no
burglars. If you’ve lost any you can go on a hunt
while I stay here to guard the jewellery.”
At this juncture a terrifle racket was heard
somewhere down stairs, and the good woman was
in greater alarm than ever. Bilkins lay for a
minute thinking. He had never committed a
burglary, but he know that no thief on earth
would rattle things around that wav while robbing
a house. “ It's a cat or the dog, he thought to
himself, and then he said aloud: “ I believo there
is somebody down stairs. I’ll go down and see.”
“Butyou have no weapons, dear. Wouldn’t it
be better, after all, to let them take what they
want and depart in peace ? You might get killed.”
“ Suppose I do ? I’ll die in a good cause. An
Englishman’s homo is his castle, and the man who
wouldn’t fight for his home isn’t worthy of its
blessings. Get up, take the candle, and follow
me.”
Bilkins said this with fine effect, and his wife
began to be proud that she had so brave a husband.
Upon reaching the ground floor, they visited all
the rooms, but found no burglar—not even a cat
or the dog. The doors were all looked and the
windows securely fastened. Presently, the family
rat dog, “ Snip,” was heard to bark in the cellar,
and the bark was followed by another commotion
amongst the milk pans and jelly pots. Bilkins
thought the dog was after rats, but he said to Mrs.
Bilkins: “The thieves are in the cellar. Follow
me and I’ll make short work of them or die in the
attempt.”
“Don’t go, Josiah,” pleaded Mrs. Bilkins, as she
tugged at his night-shirt. “ Please don’t go, dear;
they might kill you. Run out and eall the police.”
“Police be hanged,” said Mr. Bilkins. “The
burglars would be gone long before a policeman
could be found. Let me go I I’m man enough for
the whole lot of them. You don’t know me,” and
he dragged Mrs. Bilkins after him down the cellar
stairs. ThG dog had “treed ” something behind a
couple of barrels that stood in the far corner of
the cellar. “The villians are over there,” said
Mr. Bilkins; “bring the light ever, and see me
settle their hash.”
With the air of a man who fears no danger,
Bilkins approached the barrels on the far side from
the dog. He was certain now that the no'se bad
been caused the dpg Chasing rats, and his
courage rose accordingly. Mrs. Bilkins still clung
to his night-shirt, trembling with fear. “ Hold the
light up higher, so I can see to get a fair chance at
the scoundrels, said Bilkins, as he drew near the
corner. But, just as he was preparing to dive be-
-1 hind the barrels, there was a grunt, a snort, and a
30-stone pig belonging to one of his neighbours
darted between his legs and upset him. With an-
other snort and a toss of its head, the frightened
animal pitched Mrs. Bilkins on top of her husband
and the light went out.
“ Murder!” screamed Mrs. Bilkins.
“Git off o’me!” yelled Bilkins. “Where’s that
cursed light gone to ?”
“ Oh, Josiah, I know my legs are broken 1”
“ Where in Hades is that light?” roared Bilkins,
as the dog hunted the pig around the cellar. Mrs.
Bilkins was just rising from her husband, and was
going to tell him that the light had been knocked
from her hand, when the porker jumped between
the two, and dug its horny hoofs into Bilkins'
back.
“ Hades and Tommy I ” screamed Bilkins.
M Heaven help us I” cried his wife, as the pig bore
her around on its back until she fell off amongst
the milk pans. “ Josiah, I know I’m killed.”
“Killed be dashed!” yelled Bilkins. “Get a
light as quick as” ; but he didn’t finish the
sentence, for the pig again ran between his legs,
this time from the rear. Bilkins grabbed the
brute by its two ears and held on for dear life.
“I’ve got him! He's my meat now!” ho shouted,
as the pig took him around the cellar at a gallop.
“Get a light! Oh! Owl” he screamed, as the dog
mistook one of his legs for the pig, and embedded
its teeth in his fitsh. Mrs. Bilkins was struggling
toward the stair-way when the pig dashed against
her and the three went down in a heap, with the
dog on top. The good woman’s hand encountered
Snip’s tail, and thinking it belonged to the pig she
clutched it with a vice-like grip. The harder she
pulled the deeper sank the dog’s teeth in Bilkins’s
calf, and the louder the poor man yelled.
“What’s all this row about?” called out a voice
from the outside cellar-door as the light from a
dark lantern illumined the surrounding gloom.
“ You're waking the whole neighbourhood.”
“Neighbourhood be blowed I” roared Bilkins as
he recognised the policeman. “ Suppose you had
a wild boar in your cellar a-ridin’ you and your
wife around over hurdles of tin pans with a
bloomin’ bull-terrier a-tryin’ to chaw your leg off
—do you think you’d care a cuss whether the
neighbourhood got up or not ? Come down here
and shoot this rhinoscerous before I let him up.”
A little persuasion from the policeman induced
Mr. Bilkins and his wife to retire, and leave the pig
master of the field until morning, when it could
easily be driven out, as it had come in. Bilkins
says that the next time his wife leaves the back
cellar-door open to keep the milk sweet he’ll burn
the house down and emigrate to New Guinea.


w.
I
AND
PALING
CO. (Limited).
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
JiStlll
✓.V
'K
mm
EASY TERMS SYSTEM ™ INSTRUMENT.
OX3<3--A.IfcTS,
BT THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
Vlf Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OP NBW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
11, MACHINERY, d ME UK
397 GEORGE STREET,
M and 118 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AJtD AX
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OP
■Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Bhip Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
KKCIIVEI
Robey’S celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed..
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
’ Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches. Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
./outers’ and Mortioing Machines tor both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements,
anri friTiio Furrnw Plonchs. Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Horse
Chaff Cutters, Corn and Iviaize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
CnA.m BtrnJDms’ BttndrisiB.— Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes, and
uoaum Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Sto.M Iw.T. o. haul of 4SgS Fjffi Ir °“ = oalT “" 9d -
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rol
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
inery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Looks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements In Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
387 George Street, Sydney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREAT LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver in order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of coming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all these symptoms there is no remedy so
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
frame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by magic.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’S
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever sold,
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Labotatnry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
BK
B®
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverasre should com-
pare LORNB HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN B HIGH-
LA ND WHISKY.
VIROOE, SON. AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
REMEDIES THAT STOOD THE TEST FOR
CENTURIES.
German Mineral Waters,
4s. 6d. PER DOZEN.
LTTHIA-WATRR, for Gont
POTAAS-WATBR, for Rheumatism
KELTZnR-WATBR, for Asthma, Indigestion, &c*
FRIRDRICHSHALLBR BITTER - WATHR and
CARLSBAD,
■ most effectivs in removing habitual oonetipation,
affections of the liver, diabetls, &0., fco.
ORDERED BY LEADING DOCTORS.
Obtainable at principal chemists throughout the
oolonk».
Note the Address:
DALM & OERTEL,
37 BOURKE STREET, REDEEJN.
MASON BROTHERS,
Jlipf, pMPI urn
14 Mid 18 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have alw 3m In STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
BALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ARB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BUSK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80RIN and CO.'S
Cognac.
J.».GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneve.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinbmgn Pale £ .©.
r
Smoke Eureka Tobaceo
@r the paragon op perfection.
Fitter thaw the Finest.
The Tobacco of the Age I
destined to eclipse and supercede
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The O' y Tobaoco combining Excellence of Quality
with Economy in Price.
or Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
“EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
SijwiU’s Tilm Hi., Ik
AT TICE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An os abe obtained wholesale at their Warehouse.
Park-street, Sydney.
Bold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every*,
body as soon as its merits become known.
a,
•ikment, to pro-
rhodVortlpass
R
OBBRT BUTCHER & C
(Late William Long),
WINK AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoelve prompt attention.
SHOUT HOEN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, nary, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
Foster ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
'4i
ar^
m
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE J
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
PAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUMATISM,
ffLURALSIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAGIE,
RAINS, BRUISES, BURNS. SCALP 3, &c- and
Caken internally cures DIARRHOEA, ,
’CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other .utbrnoi aches
lad pains. ______
price, Q/- Sold Evcrywlie*©.
C. E. MOOLTON, sole prop k.tor,
MEX.33OTJKISr3iI J±NT> . D3STEY.
PAINT
HALL
<6
\
a
7^
S>
Vs;
s*.
wierss
TBOAR’B HEAD STOUT.—This favourite braao
_i> of Stout selected with great care from the
beet of the brewings of the oelebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
cannot be excelled. To be procured everywhore.
CATTKXXi St CO- Sole Arenta.
TONIC NERVINE
RT'.niPTFBTIB.
Ah SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By ltstonio
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
f!vr Aloohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
pthsrrpowerf«l vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONTC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
|^sS£f^.^l^MSS3SrKffi


Me. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy -
Chairman of tho Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 136 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—Advt.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents 36 O’Connell
street, Sydney. Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural lwpiements, &o. No
commission charged for buying. Agents lor
the sale or purebas-- on commission of Pure-bred
Stock.*
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bod of sickness,
‘takeeheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out witn care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If yor. are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘ your ovary-day duties, or a man of let-
ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
last, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and fdel
that your system needs cleansing, ton-
ing, or stimulating, withoutinttoxicat-
ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“ If you are old, and your blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new T -if°
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
thy, and refreshing flavouring foreiok-
room drinks ; impure water, otc., ren-
dering them harmless, and sweetening
the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doo-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
GRAHAM,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment
648, late 631, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemenl respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name o i
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world!s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding,
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces,
fall smoothly over the boot, and m attain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to flit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial wih suffice to establish their
on your patronage.
lam, Sir
Tourobedlent Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT. WEAK-
NESS, &c.
PRICE.. .. ~ .. as. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE. CHEMIST.
43 ERSKINB STREET.
r,nl<i by W. q SyjJL. and all Cfcwpjllta
“Confltcor.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ My days are few,” the stranger said,
“ Deep wounds are mine from Fate’s sharp sabre;
I crave nought save to win my bread
At any kind of humble labour.
Alas I alas! such is my case:
Once I had dreamed to be a Braddock—
A General in gold and lace;
Now— prithee, lead me to thy paddock.
There let me, at so much per day—
I care not be it much or little—
Cut burrs, ring gum-trees, or make hay,
So I can square my modest victual.
Ask not—my sin was ere my prime,
Its secret in my breast is sleeping;
My hand has long been stained with crime—
My eyes have Jong been rod with weeping.”
“ No matter,” said the cockatoo,
What was your crime, or what its reason:
I'll find you lots of graft to do,
For men are blooming scarce this season.
Go on at fifteen bob a week—
(And out of this, oi course, your grub I’ll
Deduct! that’s if it’s work you seek
And not she-oak, the usual trouble.
“ For my part, I don’t oare a darn
If you’re the blackest sort of sinner—
So hump your swag up to the barn,
And then come in and have some dinner.
And, alter that, we’ll load up hay,
And, then, I will discover which fork
You’re best at—(l’ll stay in the dray)—
A table fork or else a pitchfork.”
So tho kind farmer, by the hand
Led in tho aged crime-dipped tramper,
And fed him fat with salt-horse and
The solid, sterling, back-block damper.
Then brought him forth into the field,
And made him toil like any dragon,
Upheaving tho rich lucerne’s yield
Upon a bush-framed two-horse waggon.
And here for several days he wrought
In secrecy unknown to any,
Until upon him came the thought
That life was getting one toofmany.
And, when from off the yellowing wheat
December’s whirlwinds swept the blossoms,
A pound of arsenic he did oat—
(The farmer kept it for the ’possums).
They bore him to a haystack’s shade,
And laid him there, and quickly went for
The farmer, who cried, all dismayed
“Alack! a doctor must be sent for:
I foar it’s up with him—just see
The way the wretch’s teeth are grinding.
Poor devil! Heaven grant that he
May live until we’re through the binding.
“ I thought tho dough would make him ache,
But guessed he’d run till March at soonest:
Such luck as this is fit to make
A man become a d d Communist! ”
Then spake the stranger—short his breath—
“ The damper was too slow—l tried it;
This is no accidental death—
I’ve—what tho Nooze calls * suicided.’
“ And now, if you have time to wait,
Beforo my soul floats off to glory,
Give me permission to relate
A hurried outline of my story.
A story ’tis of youthful sin
Tbut cannot fail to deeply pain you;
But if you’ve got the horses in
Tho reaper—don’t let mo detain you.”
“Go on,” tho farmer said. “ Turn back
Into the stable Fan and Sorrell,
And then noil up hero, Bill and Jack—
We can’t afford to lose the moral.”
“ Thanks,” said the stranger; “ and ’tis fit,
As my time upon earth is measured.
To give tho moral first. Let it
In your bucolic souls bo treasured.
“ Tho moral is: Let all who hold
High offices teach men to show them
Respect, and thun, as parsons gold,
Those in the least degree below them.
My life at first was fair and bright
Of late, no life was duller, mouldier—
But, I admit, it served me right);
In youth I was a gallant soldier.
“ For me, the sound of war’s alarms
Was sweetest musie, and tho rumour
Of some approaching bout at arms
Just suited well my martial humour.
I won distinction, grade by grade,
And fUunting honours I paraded
Till I was into crime betrayed,
And straightway to tho ranks degraded.
“ Since then, my life has been a blank—
A life of weariness and sorrow;
From depth to depth f slowly sank—
Thank Heaven, I will not see to-morrow!
My eyes grow dim -1 scarce can speak—
faint round me grows tho world’s horizon;
I say—you owe me for a week,
Just iet it pay you for the pizon.”
“ Hold on a bit,” the farmer yelled,
Who saw how short the sufferer’s time was.
Lacuso me-something you’ve withheld:
, *ou haven’t mentioned what your crime was.”
btoop down.” The dying man made pause,
Then gave a gulp-Death’s sure forerunuer-
It was—let no one know— it was
Associating with a (jutincr! ”
The Miller's Daughter
She was a Miller’s daughter,
For whom my heart did pine.
At early morn T sought her,
And very quickly caught her
.Beside the Hewing water,
A-haugiug on tho lino
Her “ wash,” which had been bleaching
Upon the dewy green 1
Great Solomon when preaching,
Sweet love and ail its teaching
As vanity impeaching,
Had surely never seen
A maid, like this one, smiling
With clothes-pegs stuck between
Her ivory teeth, beguiling I
’ I’was thus upon tho high line
She hung the queerest b'iling
Of things I’d ever seen.
And there in full suspension.
And swelling in the breeze,
I spied wish apprehension
A divided—late invention;
But what took my attention
Particularly wero these
Few words, in big type splendid,
This dual sk-t displayed .
Abaft whore it was mended,
‘‘ Best flour, silk-dressed, here vended.”
* * * *
Aghast, with hair up-onded,
T hooked it Horn tout maid!
Aud, when 1 mot her mother
[Not this Nine, sonny! Pass tlio old lady for tlio
ureecef.-Ejo. It,]
Thus Constantino, a Greek merchant who
alleges he was present at the battle of Kashgil In
which Hicks came off second best:—From the
time Hicks £eft Duem, bodies of Arabs camped
each night on the place occupied by Hicks the
night before. He wished to turn and disperse
these men, but Alladeen Pasha assured him that
they were friends. On the sixth or seventh day
Hicks sent back a small party; they were fired
upon by the Arabs, and then Hicks again insisted
that these men ehould be dispersed. Alladeen re-
fused, and Hicks theu drew his sword and threw
it on the ground, saying that he resigned. After
some time he was persuaded to resume the com-
i? an d,/n’t things went on as before, the body of
A) a '8 in the rear always growing larger. After some
GIRLS’ HIGH SCHOOLS.
The Probable Result.
small engagements Kashgil was reached. Here an
ambuscade bad been formed for days, and the
guide tdd us to lead the army thither. When the
Arabs opened fire they were wholly concealed,
and the guns in position could lire with im-
munity. Six days before Gustave Klootz,
;he French renegade, had joined the Mahdi.
The shells and bullets of the Egyptians were
harmless, so thick were the rocks and trees.
Hicks wheeled his army to gain the open, but
found the defile blocked by Alladeen’s so-called
friends, the Arabs who had been following him
for days. These had got into cover, and opened
Are on the army. The Arabs, from behind their
cover, kept up a Are for three days. The Egyptian
soldiers were then lying on the ground, dying, or
In convulsions from thirst. They were all speared
on the ground. Hicks’ escort had water, and were
in a group on horseback. "When the Arabs came
out of cover Hicks charged, leading his staff, and
shooting down all the rebels in his way. They
DROUGHT AT BARRINGUN.
“The active Senior-constable proceeded in pursuit accompanied
by a black-trackor.”— EXYRACT THOM A LETTER.
galloped past towards a sheikh supposed by the
Egyptians to be the Mahdi. Hicks rushed on with
his sword, and cut his lace and arm; the man had
on a Darfur steel mail shirt. Just then a club
thrown struck Hicks on the head, and unhorsefl
him; the horses of the staff were speared, but the
officers fought on foot till all were killed. Hicks
was the last to die. The Mahdi was not in the
i to see Hick’s body. As each
sheikh ho nterced it with his lance —an
Arab custom, that he might say he assisted in his
death. M. Vizetelly the artist, is not alive; the
description of Gustave Klootz answered to him.
Thus the CJiutkch of England Record:—
Referring to the enormous cost of our Public
schools, does it not occur to mauy that the female
teachers are over-paid ? There are a large number
of young persons who are mistresses of infant de-
partments and of girls’ departments who roteivo
us much as £tJW to £3BO a yfear and rent. It must
be remembered that at the most no more than the
elements of higher subjects are taught with the
usual primary routine. Finishing governesses,
able to speak French and German fluently, can be
obtained at a much smaller salary. AVhy should
the State have to pay so dearly for teaching in-
fants and girls?” There is the real bouquet of the
true parsonic whine aboutthis wailof the Record,
the reverend conductors of which, do not appear
to understand that it takes a lot more real skill to
teach infants than it does to teach pupils of the
higher classes, nr to finish off boarding school girls
in French and German. For a really first class in-
fant teacher £3OO a year isn’t a bit to much. Of
course we understand why the Record objects to
the State paying “so dearly” for the teaching of
girls; since, once the women are solidly educated,
good bye to the influence of the holy men. The
secret of the Record's indignation at the 1
mistresses of the infant departments of public I
schools getting ns much as £3OO a year, and rent, iff
the fact (hat there are many ordained parsons
who don’t get half so much, beg they never so in-
sinuatingly. A sorrowful fact, tbat-very sorrow-
ful for the parson! And yet a fact eminently
justifiable on the grounds that tho work done by
the first class infant teacher Is solid material work,
pregant with good, while that done by the best in-
tentioned parson is, oh! so often, exceedingly the
reverse. Had the influence of first class Infant
school teachers been brought systematically to
bear upou the children of the last three or four
generations It is cock sure, so to speak, that the
pickings of parsons couldn’t be nearly so good as
they are to diy. Tt is on the ignorance of the
masses that parsondom thrives. Teach the masses
—and they will leave the churches just as the
educated classes are now so rapidly doing—and
then, oh then! what will tho parson do then, poor
thing, but with the best grace hs can put in his
paoe, step out of a line that don’t pay, poor thing ?


A Pythagorean Pl* a.
SONNET.
w
/
y
y
y t
y
&
THOU, who in thy wisdom hast de-
creed
The race of brutes are soulless, and
that we
Aloneof thingsa futurelifemaysee,
Proud preacher, in thy pride of heart
take heed!
A chieftain dies: the Indians place his steed
Beside him in the grave, that he may be
Companioned in the next world worthily:
Is theirs or thine the more enlightened creed ?
In that next stage, man, here self-deified,
May wear nor orown nor amaranthine
wreath,
But be the brute: Priest, would it salve thy
pride
To meet there, where all things thou wert
beneath,
Sage Plato with a pannier on each side,
a Shakespeare with a bit between his
teeth?
V. J. D.
(Ultimus Romanorum).
The gay Mabille, Cremorne, Niblo’s, and
a lot of other places have all had the name in their
day of jeing more or less naughty, but up to
present date there’s no doubt that, for real un
cloaked carnality, New York Is entitled to ap-
propriate the paitry. Says Flaneur :-The vol-
uptuous ot the French balls here has been grow-
ing yearly more wicked, until they have reached
a point now which calls for some action on the
P®T, j ? authorities. When the police are ap-
palled at indecency, things are in a bad way.
Heretofore, it has been the habit of these guardians
of the peace to devote themseves to the dancing-
floor, wandering up and down in twos and threes.
In former years they interfered to keep the danc-
ing somewhere within the limits of decency. This
year they gave it up at twelve o’clock, and let the
floor take care of itself. They devoted all of their
attention to the boxes. The boxes needed it. The
majority of the women looked as though they had
come away from home and forgotten something—
the something was the costume. The reason
women at the French balls are so attractive is,
because they are so negligent in the matter of
attire. The negligence was pushed to an awful
point on Monday night. Respectable citizens sat
in prominent boxes surrounded by more or less
disreputable women. The more respectable the
men, the more they seemed to enjoy the racket.
The wine-room was given over to the younger
guests. They drank during the early part ef the
evening, and spent the latter part in dancing on
the tables, clashing champagne bottles together,
and shying the glasses at waiters across the room.
It was an elevating and cheering atmosphere. It
was a scene of revelry and glee. The floor was
strewn with slippers, handkerchiefs, fans, opera
hate, clothes, men, women, waiters, and occasional
policemen. This is the Clontarfiest item we have
seen for some time.
£
Mr. Spriggs, after reading in the Herald
that a dog has been afflicted with hydropho-
bia in New Zealand, and arguing stoutly
that the disease is now certain to affect dogs
ic Australia also, goes out for a walk, and is
horrified at being confronted by a savage
specimen
Miraculous
I will now state that I made a miraculous cure
of one of the worst cases of skin disease known.
The patient is a man of forty years old; had suf-
fered fifteen years. His eyes, scalp, and nearly
his whole body presented a frightful appearance.
Had had the attention of twelve different
Physicians, who prescribed the best remedies
known to the profession, such as iodide of potas-
sium, arsenic, corrosive sublimate, sarsaparilla,
etc. Had paid $5OO for medical treatment, with
but little relief. I prevailed upon him to use the
Cuticura Resolvent (blood purifier) internally
and the Cuticura soap externally. He did so,
and was completely cured. The skin on his head,
face, and many other parts of his body, which
presented a most loathsome appearance, is now as
soft and smooth as »n infant’s, with no scar or
trace of the disease left behind. He has been
cured twelve months. Reported by F. H. Brown,
Esq., Barnwell, S.C. Reference, Dr. H. Baer,
Charleston, S.C.
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss or Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens aud gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask lor “ ArnoldV ’ I
and get it; spurious imitations are sometimes
Offeypd, 1
THE
MIGNOy
Bl
M
■
m
MMni
Iff
THE
PliiliTO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
migrnon
IPI-A-ZT©
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
IVligrnon
IFI-^-ZTO
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
W ilmer
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED 1
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY I
PERFECTION OF TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF I
THE
Z=l-&_:tT©
Illustrated catalogues of the “MIGNON,”
“WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
be had on application.
NICHOLSON AND GO.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOE PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tea Merdiaats S; kportem,
28, 29, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plantations by
our own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending purchasers should visit our Tea Rooms
and sample for themselves before buying.
The ladies of the city will find our new rooms in
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
comfortable, and commodious, with prompt
ttendants.
liffiji
JiU
R.BURGIS • nh
TAILOR. . tl/U
' ~,i!
Ifl
fl, N
Irk Hi Si
||i|
R,3 C,r:\ Sjj -J_
Tin BTJIIGIS £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
■ from 16s. (id. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 370 PITT-STKEET
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for self-measuring
forwarded to any part of the colony.
AYER’S 1
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as maybe desired.
By its use light or red hair maybe darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every disease peculiar to the
scalp. As a Ladies’ Hair Dressing, the
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dye, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mr. C. P. Bricher writes from Kirby, 0.,
July 3,1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time I became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
entirely'bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
I speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sur-e cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “Fairbairn Family” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of tlio change which fleeting
time procuretli, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness—a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm.
Stjj Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a pew growth
commenced, and in about a month my bead
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the moßt skepti-
cal of its value.
prepared by
DrJ C.AyerdtCo.,Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
Ijyf
SB*
CH
rb
uM’f
If
&
An
\N®
QUOVf^
-W1
■SYDN
OPPOSITE POST OFFICE
Note the Address:
339 & 341 George.street.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
IST 308 GEORGE STREET.
r «.5/S/?AT£ D -
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLEAGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIBT
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AFTCn OEFORE
m
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WHISKEBS.
Boyd*B Beard F.lixir did thin,and
| trill do it on either bald head or
bare fare. Fo', ren heavy Atone-
tar he in from 2 to 4 weeks and never .
fails , 20,000 young vim already
wear full beards, having lined 1 to
BEFORE after
Copyrighted.
3 pkta. No injury, easily applied , err tain in effect. Packets I*. 6 d.
each, ‘.l far '.'a. bd., pout paid, sent under cover-, free from observation .
ddrets , Frauk Douylas, Hole Jycnt,Box 730, 0.P.0., Sydney,N.B. W*
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE ABOV E,
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUG AR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
BLEND
.si
\
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY—Thin is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
Dining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
PAPERS ANGI.NGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match.
NURSER Y P/.x'ERS,
CEILING CENTREB,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthw/ck,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &c.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
aa. dertaker,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also.
Manager for over ten GO) years.
THCnnilC Pleasant, Refreshing,
iiUbllUllfcj Invigorating.
The non-alcoholic beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tonic, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
Is recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
wine, beer, and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In ease of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
elimate, it is of great service, as it acts not only as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonic
to the system.
Price per case containing 10 dozen H pints ...21/-
ii ~ •> 6 ~ 1 „ .. 24/-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
o
&
o
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
tiT N.R. Pattern* and Pries* Rant.
HOT
WATER
bath:
■'sta?
HAirr [•■-
|J/. i3 ! T 14* QXTGRL
HALF HOLIDAY f'f'F/i Y ThOF fCAY


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Tne Diamond Dyes are the Desti dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why ? Because
they are true to colour every time, and can always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other ayes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. A]l sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
LOOKS.
“It’s not so much what you wear as how
vou put it on,” was the oracular remark of the old
‘‘artiste ” as he shifted the buttons and tugged at
the cloth in an endaavour to reconcile a perfect
clief-d’vuuvrc of a misfit to the figure of the unfor-
tunate writer. And this idea has often occurred
to me since, when some peculiar development of
male or female attire has caught my eye. Wore
Burns’ oft-quoted prayer—that "somegood power
tho gift would gio us, to see oursolves as others
soe us ” —to attain any sort of fruition, what a
gnashing of teeth there would be—what a irantio
rush for tho tailors and dressmakers would ensue.
On a subject that is familiar in our mouths, or, at
any rate, in those of the female portion of us, as
household words, and that finds a corner in almost
every periodical of the day, it is difHoult to say
anvthing new. Fragmentary references appear in
a dreary succession, with nothing to alleviate their
monotony—no departures from the beaten track of
description, redolent of inspiration from the
milliner or tho warehouse. There is no Byron of
this necromantic wrt to describe to us
fervour the appropriate attire for the Haidee of
to-day. Indeed, l question much if the poet him-
self could ever have matriculated in the modern
fargon in which the description of our costumes is
enshrouded. He is very generous in jewellery,
however, and tells us how—
« twelve rings wore on her hand,
' Her hair was starred with gems; her veil’s lino
Below berbreast was fastened with a band
Of lavish pearls, whose worth could scarce be
Her orauge silk, full, Turkish trousers furl’d
Above the prettiest ankle in the world
but it’s no use. Byron himself must hide in the
obscurity of oriental fashions; he couldn’t knock
Boetry out ef our present-day terms, There are
tow more powerful spurs to inventive genius than
fashion, directly or indirectly. In our houses, on
our person, in tho myriad implements of every
day life, even in what we eat, the inexorable influ-
ence is felt, and the lavish expenditure with which
our leaders of fashion are always ready to greet a
novelty is an incentive to which manufacturers
and costumiers eagerly respond by dragging the
four corners of the oarth to gratify it. The
results do not always commend themselves as the
dictates of good taste; but many people many
minds, of course. The practice of enhancing, or
seeking to enhance, our appearance by external
devices seems to have begun when the world was
verv young, and it is only reasonable to expect
that a custom of such antiquity should haverami-
iled and extended enormously-in the course of
ages Though, how long ago it is since the gentle
mind of woman succeeded in involving it into
hopeless intricacy history recordeth not. Paul Vero-
nese, in his “Marrmge of Cana,” gives us a lavish
idea of Oriental notions, in damasks, and silks, and
gorgeous embroidery. It is a fair conclusion that
fashion has had its ups and downs. The modest
flannel that disclosed the charms of fair Athenian
maidens has given place to much more complicated
elaboration of clothing in these enlightened days ;
and who shall blame Jenkyns, as he gazes on his
loved one, if ho become lost in speculations as to
how much there is of loved one, how much—but,
there, dress is half the battle after all, and I con-
fess I like to see a pretty girl daintly attired ; and
mv delight in her society is none the less because
she is lost in shimmering satin, soft mysterious
muslin, or waves of tulle. She is none the less
BDarkling because of the diamond fire fly a la
Benevenuto Cellini sparkling in her hair.
The light in woman’s eyes is no less bewildering
because it reaches you through the scented waves
nf a leweiled fan. Lawrenoe and Reynolds, Won-
vermaus and Vandyck, owe part of the nameless
charm of their portraits to their wonderful skill in
portraying femalo dress. Certainly they made
their own fashions, and were simply lawless as to
what should bo here and what should go there ;
onnsnouently, we fcOinetimes see a jewelled buckle
“3, for tie sate of its sparkle, where there is
nothing to buckle or pretend to buckle; and folds
of drapery are represented as extended by a stiff
wind in a drawing-room—where storms are not
usiiailv expected. But, apart from these little in-
congruities/ they understood the theory of a
Mr. R. T. BOOTH.
Mr. W. T. GLOVER.
THE BLUE RIBBON APOSTLES.
female toilet, and know how to value the har-
mony of colour and judicious contrast at which it
aims’—or should aim. And this happens to be a
point on which ladies agree to differ most widely.
The Ivallir who visits his lady love, with his head
crowned by a wreath of sheeps’ entrails; the East-
ern woman who files her teeth; the masher who
props up Hs poor little head with a starched
agony, like a 3-inch jelly mould ; are instances of
this endless variety. But when the effect is
brought about by good taste, it is elegance and
neatness combined, and the result achieved is a
happy one. The remark is attributed to Ovid
that “ nothing pleases men so much as neatness.”
And the old boy was right. I saw a beautiful
brunette at the Canterbury meeting, attired in
India muslin of a pale greyish shade, relieved by a
solitary camellia; a quantity of soft lace, artisti-
cally employed, adding to' the effect, which was
that of subdued toght. And for the short time the
lady and her pai t# remained on the ground, a con-
siderable amount of scrutiny was bestowed upon
her. A little lady i?i cream tarlatqA, with helio-
trope in bunches on the dress ana also on her
Henri' 11. hat, seemed fully aware of her* own
fascinations. I wondered how the sweet smelling
but evanescent flowers kept tneir freshness, until,
being favoured with an introduction by the papa,
I learnt in confidence that the old English device
of tiny wawr-tubee had been employed. One of
the prettiest fashions of the time is that same
Henri deux hat. With the hair worn low, or even
flowing, as I have seen it in some cases, the effect
is spoiled; but when the tresses are neatly coiled
up under the brim, showing the warm dusky nape
of the neck—a part too pretty to be hidden-no
thing can be more artistic. The other evening, I
was in the stalls at the Theatre Royal. Folks
don’t, as a rule, look in that direction tor fashion;
but I have seen faces there which have haunted
me, in their winning smiles and tasteful framing
of bonnet or flower-lined hat, long after the bril-
liant rainbow of a well-filled circle had ceased to
be even a memory. Well, that evening my eyes
lighted on a bright, hopeful girl, whose piquant
face was bordered with the golden hair that has
been the theme of poets the wide world through.
I didn’t see her dress; what charmed me was her
face. Shaded by a plain Henri IF. hat placed well
forward, with a knot of what were undoubtedly
fresh violets although scarce in season she
sat entranced with the play, alternately laugh-
ing or grieving as the plot unrolled itself.
* * *
I have not seen her since, but I think of
her still as the personification of youthful
grace, and, in the store-room of my memory
NIL DESPERANDUM.
have labelled her “ violets and golden hair.”
And this brings me to the subject of hair.
The tendency now is in the direction of simplicity,
and I shall expect to see ere long the knot all
gathered at the top like the Venus de Medici; and
then, perhaps, a severer transition to the smooth
braids of Raphael’s Madonnas. And here is a
leculiar circumstance: In tneir universal dislike
;o red hair, people do not cause to distinguish
between the undeniably red and that exquisite,
ruddy, auburn tinge, which is one of the most
beautiful of all shades. Raphael had the eye of a
true painter when he endowed his creations with a
crown of lustrous braids, throwing au intense
glow of earnest life and warmth over the thought-
ful features of the Madonna. Neither yellow,
brown, nor black would give the finish to his
masterpiece that seems to be conferred by those
red gold wreaths. One more allusion to the days
that have bees. It is among the pictures of the
past that we must look for real art in dress. That
there is art now—and focussed very severely in
that particular direction—no one will deny; but it
is only represented on living beings, in the dresses
that are being worn, and they afford no oppor-
tunity, in their ceaseless changes, for .'esthetic
study. It is in the lights and shadows of Rem-
brandt, the minuteness of Reynolds and Gains-
borough, and the originality of Romney, that
correct examples of what is true in art will be
found A lively brunette is adorned with textures
of a brilliant colour, softened maybe by the an-
tique richness of Chantilly, or the queen of lkces,
point d’ Alen<?on. A fair lionne appears, perhaps,
in black, or a dark violet velvet, with wonder-
ful glistening bows and frills of some light
satiny fabric to tone the contrast down. They
saw the folly, in those days, of attempting to
adorn with frippery a faded face, and showed by
their works that sincerity in such cases would
prove the wisest plan. Young and blooming girls,
on the contrary, are always charming, and their
portraits will be found throughout the galleries of
all ages, adorned by (or in reality, adorning) grace-
ful costumes, abounding with colour, and a pleni-
tude of ornament; and we look admiringly on the
beauties of the past, whose semblance remains to the
gaze of posterity long after the originals have sub-
sided into dust. So they pass away—as Thaekeray
puts it—youth and beauty, love and innocence,
pass away and perish.
* * *
Among the fashions of to-day, the materials
and cut of a ball-dress form a prominent sub-
ject for ladies’ consideration. And I don’t
know that there can be a prettier subject
with ail the various ramifications it leads to; the
choioe of fabric and the matching of ornaments;
the particular cut at the neck, and the important
item of length to the ankle. Tulles and tarlatans
in various shades, India muslin and grenadine, all
come under review, and the convention comes to
an end by hatching some such a dress as this—a
skirt of tulle, maize-coloured, with silk pompous
of a deeper shade, placed about in bunches of
three; a plush bodice of the same shade as the
the latter, is finished off at the neek with fine old
lace; and short tulle sleeves are worn, plaited to
the bodice to form epaulettes. Oh pne side of the
skirt a knot of vide velvet ribbons may be placed,
reaching to the hem of the skirt, and finished off
on each end by a pompon. Then the maiden’s
heart is happy. There is little, if any, departure,
as yet, in the way of fashions for the approaching
winter season. All skirts for dancing purposes are
made short. The bodices in some cases have the
necks quite low, with little or no sleeve: but this
is not in general favour, the narrow,, square-cut
front, and high in the rear, being more worn; also
the V shape back and front, and high on the
shoulders. India muslin is a favourite material for
ball-dresses, perhaps on account of its being so
serviceable. It is usually seen in company with a
velvet or satin bodice, flowered or plain, to suit
the taste of the wearer, but on less showy
occasions the skirt can be utilised with a
bodice of nun’s veiling, or some even less
expensive material. In * a dress of cream
nun’s veiling, gold braid has been effectively
used on the flounces, and the new Mignon lace
harmonises beautifully with many shades of this
popular material. In closing my meanderings on
this subject, for the present, perhaps I cannot do
better than refer to the surprising incongruity
which so frequently is seen to mar the effect of
costly apparel and pleasant features. Not long
ago, two of the sweet rural rosebuds of old Eng-
land had bribed a stern parent to let them visit
Scarborough, under the chaperonage of a maiden
aunt. They proceeded on their campaign full of
anticipations of conquest, with a rich and plenti-
ful wardrobe that had been the anxious study of
the local dressmaker for many weeks. But they
journeyed toward disapointment. A day’s walk
on the sands, an evening’s promenade among the
throng on the esplanade, showed them that they
were strangers in the land; birds of another flock.
What they wore was costly, but not appropriate;
and the season which had opened with hopes and
aspirations, which their own sweet looks certainly
warranted, prematurely closed in heart burnings
and despair. There was a charm of fitness about
the costumes of the wealthy idlers in the gardens
or on the cliff that entered-, not the villag
modiste’s dreams. There were*visions of breezy
silks and airy muslins, conceived exactly for the
place where they were to be worn. Marvellous
conceptions in brown holland, and gipsy bonnet
tied on with a careless grace, attained without
effort the effect that the stiff and elaborate cos-
tumes of the rural beauties utterly failed to in-
spire. If greater study, then, were given to ap-
propriateness of design, and less anxiety displayed
for gorgeous textures and complicated toilets, we
should probably meet fewer “stylish people”;
but their absence would be compensated “or by
the more frequent discovery of a pretty woman.
Q.
One enthusiastic old lady in a northern
town in speaking of Inglis’s Loyal Indian tea,
thus characterised it:—“Och, begorra, it’s" foine
tay intoirely, it takes such a mighty strong grip aw
the second wather.”
Mashers.— The best and lightest are made by
Off ord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Brickfield Hill.
Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”—Ask for Wells
Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses.
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents. n
A Fact Worth KNOWiN#%Are you' suffering
with Consumption, Coughs, Severe Colds settled
on the Breast, Pneumonia, or any disease of the
Throat and Lungs ? If so, go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of Boscheo’s German Syrup. The
people are going wild over its success, and Drug-
gists all over our country are suiting us of itf
wonderful cures among their ctl/stomers. It has
by far the largest sale of any remedy, simply
because it is of so much value in all affections of
this kind. Chronic cases quickly yield to It.
Druggists recommend it and physicians prescribe
it. If you wish to try Its superior virtue, get a
Sample Bottle for 6d. size bottle, 3s. 6d.
Three doses will relievuafiy case. Try it.
Farm Memories.
More has he lost than any gold,
Or gain, the years allot.
Whose days of yeuth were not
Spent in a farm-house, quaint and old.
No thrill runs through his blood to see
A fragrant hawthorn sprffy;
The smell of new-mown hay
Raises In him no memory.
His thoughts go back to crowded ways,
Dust, smoke, and air'opaque—
What wonder these awake
In him no grief for by-gone days ?
The noisy city has no charm,
With dreary streets and drains;
Ah, for the hedge-rowed lanes,
The quiet of the quaint old farm!
Ah, the glad years of long ago—
How long ago they seem!—
When Fancy madqa dream
Of what has now noTjgleam, nor glow.
How could we guess Life would grow stale—
A careless, laughing boy,
To whom Life was a joy,
Death but a chimney-corner tale ?
The cows came home red, white, and brown,
And strawberry, and dun;
We knew them.ev’ry one,
And they knew us—a mild renown!
A mild renown, indeed, and yet
What we have scon since then,
Among the world of men,
Makes us those kind old cows regret.
The glamour in the eyes of Youth,
Alas, that it should be
A splendid mockery—
A mournful mirage of the Truth!
The wood-horse was to us, those days,
Though wail-eyed and knock-knee’d,
A fiery Arab steed,
Bearing us on to world-famed frays.
How wonderful the world did seem I
Days came, and went, and came,
And still we dreamt of fame:
Alas, the poor and sorry dream!
We loved the milkmaid then—alack!
Her skin was soft as silk, A
Her arms white as the milk: •
We kissed her, and she kissed us back.
Then we on wings of Fancy still
Could fly, nor fear a fall; Tjk
Now we have left off all,
Only one worn and weary quill.
Young man, though you be plumed like Puck,
Rest glad with small renown;
Come not into the town,
Or they your plumes, like ours, will pluck.
But sometimes we forgot our pain,
And think, at even-gloom:
We hear the cows come home,
And all the past comes back again.
Ah, if it could! The milkmaid, n®w,
Would she kiss us, the dear ?
Alas, we sadly fear, ,
She would refer us to the cow!


WHISKEY!
fit*' ~~
rHK PREMIER WHISKEY 18
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Quality UNSURPASSED.
! LY BROTHERS,
n ts forN.S.W. and Queensland,
* sffliss 18 ™ 3
e ®rgg Street, Sidney
Irish Whiskey
AMES ? q N * 00,18 dcbun whiskey
tafc, “ m,S TM>ASBED.
Ex v r rt at the Distillery,
1 Sin the I hnn? ay i t " - Telore > re *y that it
,» f or?t smu,°/ hiskev Doctors.”
8oi eA
for N.S.W. and Queensland
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &c.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LA WLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1800.
ES and SHAW
HAVE JCJST RECEIVED THE
11 /V V iii JUDL’ ItliiUllil V J&U illlli
Hugest, choicest, and cheapest
Shipment of
58 § 5 and Oerctleimen’s Ulowes
c v\r land.d by one {inn in the colony of New South Wales.
toy co' fist of Novelties in Lidies’ Gloves as follows; —
‘ %lsrt
° 4 %L p,! V J D (:i 'OVK with VELVET
U T
}'i 4 tdoig ' fls ,o, l<>ws: Roan, f Hte,
® liATtvr ’ ll,ll ‘ >ro »'U Navy, Mj rile,
n. UJNtSn'W ~
Alj y AC GLOVE, PATENT
W ll p l<U>ljg T
. a,lp ’ an<l overlap si.a Us.
SUEDE GLOVES, «, 8, and 10
lllo
W l °lou rBi arJin » shades and f. shionablo
W ®TATI
1,1 oot lE DIIESSEr > KID G LOVES.
zc < Terra Cotta, and other
V
°ves.
NT of
our Celebrated “FLORA”
a p Wc 0 f or f
f 0 ° Ur ' JUpton is 3s 0d per pair.
Rh -, r OOC is 4s n per pair.
r\f _ ,
i col °ur, and every pair
BQ^VRBJn f LADIRS ' ftn<l CIMLD '
111 overy shade of colour.
MI fS, £5 inches
l "u-r in silk
Cry colour.
G ENTLEKEN'S GLOVES.
For the Encampment
lor Volunteers. |
While Dogskin Gloves
White Hume ki< Gloves
While Does’- iu Gloves.
DENT S GLADSTONE GLOVE
Assorted Fashionable Shades of Tans and
lliowi s, two clasps, price, S-t Gd. per pair.
The above are with either black self-braid
points, made expressly for PEAPES and
SHAW, and are unrivalled for quality,
fit, make, or stylo.
DENT’S CHEVItETTE GLOVES,
Two clasps, all the new colours.
GENIVS WHITE, FRENCH GREY, and FANCY
TINTED GLOVES,
For Evening Dress Wear, haif-a-crown per
pair.
TWO-BUTTON WHITE and FRENCH GREY
EVENING GLOVES,
WHITE and FRENCH GREY EVENING
GLOVES,
Willi the new double clasps.
Gent’s New Driving Gloves, and Warm Winter
Gloves.
3nsJ SH/sl?!,
OSOR <SBSTU Eet .
PEAPES and SUM,
GEORGE STREET.
Sz Son’s
H
6 had f
V" r Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
premises, 107 piti street,
2nTo■w Open.
HOTEL,
of KING and castlereagh streets.
lUv %e (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
-
0 OQV
■ •£>.
ONLY GENUINE TfNTAG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly thrce-
V fourths of the whole of the leaf importer
fr into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist anc
b. Ueror > Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture
‘‘On ***o} CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
Clarftrs. n»d nil Tobftroonlßfcs’ finnilrm#.
; lU)R'
TOll A (CO WORKS, lIYDE PARK, SYDNEY,
C. B. MODIHI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only award*)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading- Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
362 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Verth,
Terra Cotta, China-ware, &c.,
Tricycles, Trench and German
Model Dolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Pigures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Sola.© Bazaai
352 Georgs Street
JOHN G. HARBOROW,
470 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Fruit Markets,
GLOVES
HOSi KHY
SUNSHADES
LACES
LADIES’ BOOTS & SHOES
HAND BAGS
FANS
PURSES
and all varieties of FANCY GOODS.
470 Georege-sftreef.
P. R. HOLDSWGRTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
Rouse, Lansl & Estate ilgerct
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
PURE COUNTRY KSBLK.
fJIIIE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may bo relied upon as being *
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
tree from city contaminations.
Batter.
This is either manufactured at their own depSt
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, throe times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
zi ha is. is aim iK steeeet.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOB,
by every maker
of renown, from
£25 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stook.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT or PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £133,500
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Heniy Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.C.
C. Rolieston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors: „
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, G-iralambone,
Gosford, Nynyan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Bir Saul Samuel.K.C.M.G
Goo. T. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking' and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily. .
Bills negotiated and advances made against w oo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
€
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
~|~|~AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
-644 GEORGE STREET.
W- ZX. .Ariel! & Co.’s
AG-EPTCIE'?.
SWALLOW & AIITELL’S prize Riscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds-Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising l Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2COlb. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
34,34, and Üb. tins.
It. W HITTING HAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, 3c.
ANGLO-SCANDIN AVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
MACHINES
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WAJjNttt
Wood,
&e. &c. &c.
lIEBBLEWHITE & CO.,
116 GEORGE STREET.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
sar* THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows :-SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in tho Savings Rank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, i Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
BI'IAIJM
TREATMENT
k R. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
) MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death ; premature old ago,, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or ©vor-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
box, or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case, with each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 265., tho purchaser will receive
the nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
tho money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees Issued by oil chemists and druggists
Australia.


G-old* J" ©tx7"©ll©^'
(REGISTERED.)
w.
- •:
O
Aw
& \>,>m
‘SWIIi MumijJ.l •
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
mu ism mo, on sold nam, t,
latest fashions.
WATCHES, Z-’ESOIk/T 30s.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attend^
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B. —BOYD (OVEIt PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager.
J. J.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIE3, g
of Choice and Fashionable MEN | n(i jj#
CK, and PAGET COATS, HABU y ar tiCi
SUIT! 3 afdV&S* sfsSxf FROCK, and PAGET COATS.
WHITE and KEG ArrA SHTHTS, COLLARS, TIES, and HOSIERY. *
plain Azures, and at VERY LOW I RICES. the -
Both shops are thorougly chock full. Como early and mspe to
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SY^
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OE a |
J. J m Ryan, 7SO George Street, Hay l *!!
And 4C6 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near
Market- Sf*® 6,
hawses amn co^pamy,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
• SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The ETON RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
HEYDE, TODHIAH & CO.,
YORK BTREET. SYDNEY.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BEAUTIFUL FLOWERS.
Cilt Flowers of every description
Wreaths, Crosses, Wedding and Ball-dress
Bouquets
Ball Room Floral Furnishing
Plants for table, &c. Church Decorations.
SC A R L SOUS,
Banquetists And Florists,
Sand 6 GEOItGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
6f GEORG & STREET WEfVT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS
iv
V,
m
m
•4
Air-tight
SHOW
CASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
umbreClas
RrccSVEßia
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Hav e your Umbrella Pram es
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
t umes- Haim**!** nooHr «TP
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
m
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WjfkßE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner Georgre & Market Streets, Sydney,
&r Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
A!ther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
mao-raps
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
At*- ;
Ingham’s
UPHOF^BI^y
-Queensland Cure
Asthma, tkoN<
Couchs
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS:
M Thomas Ingham
TO
N
m
yM
0
-T>
tr
2
O
o
0
%
<£
o>
r m
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great b eeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OF PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Oifico Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W-
English Papers and y.
ROYAL ARCADE. 4* GB ° -
(imi**’”’
GENERAL CA fi
[/U*
Forwarding, Shipped’ yfi
and Commission
hbadoj^J
241 Pitt Street
CARRIERS TO THE
SOUTH
bkancH «'
SOtITHBBS
Cu^ee
tsr
,ol
n^'-fDO*
C& rra
wmhbw I no flef
Sl« h00 ,1
SSSP
, d/ ,!
Northern plS pre^ a Jt?
sssS
JUEENSUANP
[kbnandSou ss?>
T i/lN s:
“■""Vff
Co* 0 '
NOB,TTBB i^
Victoria »° K
* 00"
j
o 1
ncies iB all P
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of /Erafed Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of !
or*
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Ligueu
