

SONY HORDERN & SONS,
YMARKBT, ORTLY,
3HE POPULAR DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENT.
'
only Universal Providers in the Southern Hemisphere.
® K*o»y OASHj
AT 'L OUR GOODS, AND GIVE OUR CUSTOMERS THE DULL BENEEIT ARISING THEREFROM.
#•«
p
tHONY HORDERN AND SONS
age emporium, haymarket, ohly,
Have the LARGEST and BEST-ASSORTED STOCK of
X I£T T 1 EXS GOODS
in the Australian Colonies.
' Riant lT ™> Haymarket, is celebrated for the Best and Cheapest Boots, Cloth mg, l Owrcfflais, Matties,
U an kets, Flannels, Linens, Calicoes, Woollens, Merinos, and all lands of Dress Goods.
(R v FURNITURE, CROCKERY, HOLLOW WARE, of the best English manufacture. _
" the very best value for the least possible outlay
m VJSKI JBJKST V AJuUHi JbUH AH J& ' Aj£ "Z_ - - - •
HORDERN AND SONS,
ljv Emporium, Haymarket, Only.
sal
PROVIDERS.
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


“" . ■
'HOTOGfyPHIC
' STOCK '
IMPORTERS
%
E» 3 1
%
A
W.
VVelu
m u a ss
.. f :
' k »fall», *-&>
.CAMERAS, r Wo»rw
CARDS.CHEMICALS. ri d Pnic
iqenis Tor "Nfley wm^\
(3/~- W.JOHNSO NK-S 0N $ ~l§£W
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD?
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
H. L. SUMIMERFIELD & CO.,
THE PEOPLE S TAILORS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H. L. SXTMMEEFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 23T PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON, E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
E3T Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
«X. Gr. Hartoorow,
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
JUST OPENED.cer s.s. Valetta. 3 cases Gauntlet Gloves, in all the Latest Styles and Shades*
a Larg-e Coriigf&nent of Ladies’ and Children’s HOSIEitY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
Cashmere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from,
MILLINERY—A large stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
MIL LINE RY-For the winter
FLOWERS—In great variety.
FEATHERS—In all qualities.
STRAWS—In all new shapes.
Having engaged a first-class French and English Milliner, andselocted our stock from the Paris
and London markets, we are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods in the
above line. A large stock of FAMOY GOODS, consisting of Sunshades, Fans, Purses, Morocco RnsHia
and Seal Bags, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &c. ’ 8 a ’
Note dddress— J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Street, opposite Centra Fruit Markets.
W. W. CATES, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt-street.
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
HIATER’S system of importing' ail goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wholesale
%..J prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by ourlargely-iuereasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERV, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATIN'S. LACES, GLOVES. AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
4S r ’ Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great sucsess We have
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged. e dve
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICED
*W. "W_ CATEK,
19 3 and 195 PITT STEEET.
XMCairtlxx M&Lgesliaxi,
STAR AND GARTER HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS Hotel is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &e
Superior Accommodation for families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits"
The most Comfortable ana Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S, Manders and Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegrams from all parts of the colony posted up.
M. A. BROWN & CO. p
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
5260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
Champagne
Heidsiiick & C©’s.
' ill¥ MONOPOLE.
OF’ ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL, RICHARDS & Co„ London,
t Sole Age atfl lor fleidflieois & Co., Reims,
C. B. MODIHI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 187918 G, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY^
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading- Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will bo faith full v
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship. y m 10
N.8.-Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
K'a,& 08B0M “ ; 8,40 ss
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
387 GEORGE STREET,
56 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY'
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON,
, EHBLO’
&&&
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers 5 Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and
» Implements.
C-:
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
"V extical and 'Ho'riz.ontal.
MACHINERY. gating
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Plamng- er g.
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Dam
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY- fret
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machin^^po^ 61 ’'
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both band ana »
’Tlirei
English and American Agricultural liMpl eM *®®^
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators,
Hakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers ana 0“
Railway Contractors’ Material and Fl^l^ r nis6i OgS ' 1
Coach Builders’ Sundries —Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and ,
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours. .
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee l ro ’
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improv©m Gnts
in Carp os
:tef«
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on appii° a^° n
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE
387 George Street, Sydnep
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALESJ
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Ooulburn
Yass
Bowning
Binalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culcairn
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carratfiool
Hay
Wbstbrk District, N.S.W.;
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromine
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymage©
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
Nobthsbn District, N.8.W.;
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Waigett
Brewarrina
Tarnworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Line:
Yeulba
Cambooya
Csntraii Lin*:
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
Capella
Comet
Northern Line ;
Townsville
Charters Towers
Havena^vooct Junction
Agents in Victoria and South Australia;
WBL M'CULLOCH & 00., LIMITS®,
wr Ageuote* iu all parts ol th« world*
Foster’s
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT,
The BfJST Ah® a °^
SOLD BY ALL
Yirgoe,S^.
"W A-
ca^-;
■S?|
tiXe fflff e A P f° r S £J to
d
T. V
Vj
&


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 64 —New Senes.
SATURDAY. AUGUST 2, 1884.
Frioe—6d.
Egypt, Again.
The Bulletin .
SATURDAY, AUGUST 2. 1884.
Whatever may be the outcome of the
European Conference with respect to the
future Government of Egypt, the past and
the present cannot be wiped away. With
the past we have dealt cotemporaneously.
Let us glsnce at the present—signifying, of
course, the situation as per latest advices.
The immensity and completeness of the
failure in Egypt is now beyond concealment.
It has become impossible to keep up the
pretence that our interference was a bene-
volent enterprise. The unmistakable de-
testation in which we are held by every
native Egyptian has at length covered all
such imposture with deserved ridicule.
When we, without declaration of war, threw
our filibustering expedition into Egypt, we
affected tu it we were operating on behalf
of the Egyptian Government and naticn
against a revolutionary faction. The affec-
tation was, even at that time, thoroughly
transparent; but it suited influential classes
iu Great Biitain, and ministered to the
Jingo sentiment to maintain it. Accordingly,
having caught the Khedive, and veiy
tightly shut our eyes to the fact that he had
not ouly endorsed but ordered the resistance
to our fleet by the native troops under
Arabi, we proclaimed these same troops
to be rebels against His Highness. The
Egyptian people responded by flocking
en masse to the national standard kept
erect by Ababi, and denounced the
Khedive as a coward and! a traitor to
his people. We beat Arabi’s raw troops.
It is believed in some quarters that we beat
them by a surprise, the field officer appointed
to guard the entrenchments at Tel-el-Kebir
having accepted a bribe to withdraw the
Egyptian outposts and videttes. Anyhow,
we beat them. And, since then—a period of
two years—we have been conducting the
Government of the country, after totally
disarming the people. Two years to con-
vince the natives that they were quite mis-
taken in suspecting our motives! Two years
in which to exhibit the genuinen- ss of our
proclaimed benevolence, and to prove that,
if we scourged them, it was in order to gain
an opportunity of doing them good !
• • •
The present result is that, whereas at first
there may have been one man in Egypt who
hoped something from ns, and expected to
reap some advantage from our intrusion—
W 6 iefer to the wretched Tewfik. the John
Baloil of Egypt—there is now not one.
There is not a native Egyptian who does not
detest the very name of our country. We
have forcibly put down the “ rebellion,” and
poured all the beneficence we ever had in
stock upon the nation. For result, we have
a nation of rebels, just as at the commence-
ment. In other words, we have a conquered
nation on our hands —one of these hands
being on its throat and the other in its
pocket. The moment we leave go, we are
apt to receive a stab. Our fix is such that
further hypocrisy becomes almost impos-
sible. We will have to own up, and re-
lieve our embarrassment by openly
knocking our victim down and kneeling
on it. That is to say, provided the
neighbours will not interfere. Egypt would,
perhaps, have been annexed ere now had
not the attitude of the other European
Powers been so dubious. The Tory party
have been demanding the completion of the
outrage for some time, and have been
taunting the Government of Mr. Gladstone
with weakness, because, although unable to
extricate itself otherwise, it still keeps up
the Pecksniff tan protestations with which
it (frst undertook the rascality, and which it
perhaps, really desires now, too late repent-
ant, to justify by surrendering the spoils
after all. That we are not overstating the
situation, or imparting to it an artificial
colour, can be readily demonstrated. The
rebels we have clapped into our service and
placed under our officers, won’t fight a little
bit. The rebels who oppose us in the Soudan
fight like devils. The other day, we had the
intelligence that the Egyptian Governor and
troops nominally on our side, at Dongola, are
treacherous. A little earlier we heard of
other Egyptian garrisons joining the Sou-
danese “rebels.” Next came the announce-
ment that the Egyptian police at Cairo have
excited suspicion, and have been practically
superseded by a British military force.
These are merely incidents, of course. But
they are of the same pattern with the whole
MR. EDMUND YATES, OF THE LONDON WORLD.
piece. The opportunity for judging has
been furnished by witnesses whose interest
is engaged to put the best face upon matters.
* * *
The British Government sent to Egypt a
selection of administrators—every one a
specially picked man. Sir Evelyn Baring
was one. He is now in England, and makes
no secret of his chagrin. According to him
the state of Egypt is worse than he has ever
known it to be. The power of the Khedive
has not been re-established, the new repre-
sentative institutions have not yet got into
action, the confusion everywhere is almost
inconceivable. There is origandage in the
provinces, and deficit ’in the Exchequer.
But, about the finances, Mr. Vincent is
the best authority, and his testimony is
gloomy indeed. Egypt is on the verge of
bankruptcy. Only by extraordinary ex
pedients, such as postponing the payment
of the interest on our Suez Canal shares,
can the requisite funds be secured to
meet the daily outgoings for the payment
of employes. The Treasury is, in short, re-
duced to desperate straits. It is living from
hand to mouth, and unless the Conference
affords some relief, Egypt will have to stop
payment after July. Never, even in Is-
mail’s time, were the finances in such con-
dition. Last of all comes Colonel Stuart
Moncrbiff. He has charge of the engineer-
ing works upon which the life of the Egyp-
tians depends. His testimony is not less
alarming than the rest of his colleagues. The
state of the country, he says, is sufficient to
arouse grave anxiety, if not alarm. Eoono-
mic causes have produced privation, and
political unrest has stopped trade.
* * *
We have propounded the moral from this
more than once. We will repeat it in an-
other form, which will, probably, readily
lend itself to the comprehension of colonial
readers. It is, that when a man goes into the
bushranging line of business and has stuck
up a party, it is a mistake for him to develop
scruples of honour and conscience. If honour
and conscience have influence over him, ho
should not undertake bushranging. If he
undertake bushranging, he should be tho-
rough in his scoundrelism, and shoot down
anyone who seems disposed to resist. Mur-
dered nationalities are not altogether like
dead men. They do tell tales. Their
fate is recorded in history. But they
do resemble dead men in this respect:
they can’t strike you when you let go of
their throats. If Mr. Gladstone manages
to release the British grip of Egypt without
exposing our nation to an ugly knook, he
will be extraordinarily lucky. But the indi-
cations are that either he will have t© com-
plete the assassination of national freedom
which he so unaccountably commenced two
years ago, while protesting that he was going
to succour, not to harm, the Egyptian people,
or he will have to hand over the job for some
less scrupulous Minister to complete. Should
Mr. Gladstone’s Ministry fall, and a Tory
Government take Egypt in hand, it will not
be long before the last gasp of national in-
dependence will be squeezed out of its
throttled larynx.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Twenty Lashes.
At the rear of the Yass Court-house, on the Bth of
July, 1884, a scene occurred for which no parallel
can be found in the recent aunals of States claim-
insr a place among: civilised communities. Some
days before, Samuel Lillychop, a half-witted
chimney-sweep—with the poor sense apportioned
to him on his start in life deadened or destroyed
by the poisonous abominations the sale of which
enables black-coated, fair-spoken citizens to keep
liveried servants and showy suburban residences—
was being baited by larrikins. The latter marked
their quarry, knew his shortcomings, and, re-
solved that such an opportunity for enjoy-
ment should not bo lost, amused themselves by
goading the insensate creature to madness. Mark
the sequo'. Two policemen broke through tho
jeering canaille, seized the tipsy imbecile, and,
after the manner of their tribe, induced him to
accompany them to the lock-up, followed by a
ribald mob. On the way their prisoner, who was
about as responsible for his words as an occupant
of Gladesville, used blasphemous and bawdy lan-
guage. A few days afterward? his shriekrwere
heard over Yass, as, securely tied to a ladder
behind the Court-house, he received twenty
lashes. The people gathered in the street to
listen to the angry swish of the “cat” through
the air, the dull squash of the knotted thongs on
the sweep’s back, and the yell of the half-idiotic
victim as the skin was being dexterously filliped
off his shoulders, The operator, we are told, made
two or three feints before gauging the distance
properly, and then “ broke the skin with the first
stroke,” taking care that each such succeeding cut
dealt with any spot of cutaneous tissue the last
had missed. At each yell, the crowds round the
hotel doors cried “shame,” forgetting the fact
that manhood suffrage was tho law of the land,
and that it was they who were inflicting a punish-
ment which great men of their race had devoted
their lives to wipe. off the statute-book, to bury
with the thumb-screw, the rack, and the scaven-
ger’s daughter—a punishment at the mere mention
of which Englishmen howl when they hear of it g
infliction in Hussia or Turkey'. But he was only a
cliimney-sweep-a creature that tied a brush to
the end of a pole and pulled down soot. Through-
out the whole area of New South Wales there is
not a clergyman to enter the pulpit and say
that the occurrence was as scandalous as it was
useless. Odd, is it not, that the people of Yass and
other towns, who cry “shame” when the real
meaning of the revival of personal torture 18
brought home to them, will go stolidly on voting
for it from year to year ? Strangtr still, they do
not see how they have abandoned all right to
criticise the barbarities of ecmi-civilised nations.
Strangest of all, when one reflects that—assuming
the magistrates to ‘‘do their duty,” as in the
chimney-sweep’s case—their own backs are not
safe if a couple of policemen, towing them to th©
watch-house, hear them mutter doubts about th©
i Trinity or acquaintance with libaldry. As the law
! stands in this favoured country', we would guaran-
tee—always supposing we had a loose woman or a
couple of thoughtful policemen to help us—to
have the Bishop of Sydney or even a C.M.G. tied
to a ladder and scourged, if the magistrates “did
their duty” as they did towards the chimney-
sweep, Lillycrop. The use of the triangles for
any crime is a brutal anachronism. The law sanc-
tioning their erection for the purpose of suppres-
sing obscenity and profanity should occupy the
highest niche in the great temple of legislative
folly.


The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are-For one year, 345.; half-year, 12s 6d
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are 6s. per inch*
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows :-On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 conseoutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
G. B. KENT & SONS’ BRUSHIVARE.
It having come to our knowledge that certain
G B 'k kNT and V SO b Ns n -n t arndy C I Sash Too^and
BEST), we suggest that persona using o'r’brand
&MBT ‘" oul<1
. , G. B. KENT and SONS
S° rtl S Q o *itS UM ° f *»» ■“<> «*" “S^iSSE
registration of the trade mark annlies +<->
pinov B3 !® 8 of u° ur manufacture, namely -- P to
lancy Brushes, a 3 Hair Hat, Cloth, Tooth Nail
x> • x ohaviog, Bath, Ivory G„od4 .to A ’ mU *
ainters Brushes, as Sash Tools, Gro’uudßrushes
it Distemper, Stipplers. &o USDes ,
Household Brushes, as Brooms, Scrub, Shoe, Stove,
Stable Brushes, as Dandy, &c
fsssssa.”-™
Signed and dated in Sydney this 14th May, 1884.
„„ G; B- KENT and SONS.
11 Great Marlborough-street, London
, - a m
BRIAN BORU
mmtM,
vwjrawA
B K th«?fl B 0?T T WHISKY is manufactured from
the fl aest Irish Grain. When well matured
8 caro j u iJy bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs, and exported in
Quantities to all parts of the world
Austrahan consumers will find this brand pure
mellow, and wholesome. The great, demand for
thi 8 Wh'shy in England, Scotland, and
the Colonies, is a sufficient guarantee for it«
un tVi ty ‘ P nan Horn Whisky was never exhibited
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, <fce. ’
JAMES YOUNG, Change Alley
SOLE AGENT,
THE liAMMEItItfUIR lII,EMI
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
&
ta
&
. This celebrated brand of Scotch W nisbv is
by Messrs. YOUNG, KING, and CO., under
sr C rn I n»th 11 u e fa Vlsion ‘ For i Pu lrJ t fr m 6llowness, and
teed°^ <b ’ lS 18 unBUr P aSBe( l* Full contents guaran-
JANES YOUNG, Change Alley
SOLE AGENTS.
Rr . ON BAM BY THE UNDERSIGNED—
Brian Boru Old Irish Whisky, in wood and bottle
The tammermuir Old Scotch Whisky, do. do do
Brandy in case and bulk, * and *** ' “ 0 *
India Rum, in qr.-casks and hogsheads.
Bass s Ale, Guinness’s Stout,
THE CELEBRATED BELFAST GINGER ALE,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Sa° ( U , ri V^ fflce : 23 Flinders-stre»t East.
Adelaide Office ; Urenfeil-street.
T
Coughs and Colds.
HE Best Cure for the above Is Rum maf
and taken at bod-time.
Je <hra*
MF" PURE RUM
Extra Strong,
««. PER IMPERIAL
4 VA. R T.
0. W. ROBERTS’
Siigli Biilii lijarlaut,
MARKET street.
you visit Sydney,
QO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
e<fL_
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, BHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at ar
other establishment In the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,.
Is now open In
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbleiv
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRILL
Is sold In this department.
Thi most Wholkbomb or all Bbvbsu©m.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WB3SKY
4a. Bd. per bottle.
OL YNKLISH WHISKW
6a. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,.
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per boMfe.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINK*
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
per bottle.
dENNESSY’B STAR *** PALE NRANDYI
6a. 6d. pas untie.
C. W. ROBERTS?
Street, Sydney.
The Reed on wliieli lie Lennt.
" K don't care to judge Mr. Heydon as regards his
audden change of political front. By what motive
he was actuated in turning his back upon the
Ministry and upon himself can be known posi-
tively to himself only. But he will bo judged by
btheta on the ordinary lines, and he may make up
his mind that the popular view will not be the
bne he wishes to be accepted. The public will put
two and two together in the usual way, notwith-
standing that the sum of the addition is not what Mr.
TleyHon would wish to make it. Here are the factP i
On BatUrday, the Vasa Free Selectors’ Association
pass a resolution demanding that Mr. Heydon, the
member for the district, shall be requested to vote
ftgalnst tile Land Bill of which he is at that time a
Strong supporter. On Tuesday Mr. Heydojt de-
clares his resolution to take that unexpected
course, and ascribes his conversion to the character
of the changes which have been made during the
preceding f ortnight in the substance of the meur-
ure. He docs not deign to specify what are the par-
ticular changes which have so powerfully wrought
upon him. His critics thereupon allege that the
mandate of his constituents and his change of
front are cause and effect. Mr. Heydon indig-
nantly denies the connection, and, without
entering into any demonstration of the unreason-
ableness of the charge, refers to his reputation
in the House and in the country as affording
sufficient protection against so derogatory an al-
legation. “I thank God,” cried Mr. Heydon,
piously, “that my reputation stands too high in
this House and in the country, to be in danger
from such a charge.” The cheers with which Mi.
Abbott s statement of the charge was received,
should have convinced Mr. Heyion that his confi-
dence was misplaced, as regards the influence of
his reputation upon the beiief of the House, And,
as regards the public, he is equally mistaken. Mr.
Hbydon's reputation is, so far as the public is con-
cerned, an unknown quantity. It is neither bad
nor good. Mr. Heydon has not tilled any
considerable place in the public observation
He has neither been long enough in P. rliament
nor has developed during his brief public career
sufficiently striking abilities to intert st the public
respecting him. As a politician, he has practically
no reputation. His appeal to that, resembles the
appeal of a smart young officer who has never been
under Are, to his established reputation for cour-
age, when the first time he goes into serious action
and is confronted with a difficulty, he executes a
movement which may proceed from an intelligent
exertion of moral courage, or from an anxiety to
save his skin. Nelson could have commanded a
fleet to sheer off and avoid an engagement,
and could have relied upon his reputation
to furnish a conclusive answer to allegations
that it was pusillanimousness, and not strategy,
which moved him. Rut Byng failed to procure a
hearing when he executed that manoeuvre. His-
tory has partially acquitted his memory. But
eotemporary opinion caused him to be shot. His
reputation was not equal to the occasion. So with
Mr. Heydon’s. His reputation was unsullied.
But it was unformed. Like a half-frozen pond, it
might, if allowed time, have sustained any weight
which might have been laid upon it; but when
stress was laid upon it, while but partially formed,
it has proved too thin. Mr. Heydon may be
guiltless of the indecent motives charged against
him, but he has shewn that his vanity is greater
than his judgment.
A Story with a Moral.
Stellmacher, who was hanged at Vienna, lately
for murders, was originally a cobbler, then a
soldier, next a journalist and anarchist. His career
furnishes an apt and lamentable illustration of the
madness which is produced by the combination of
oppressive social inequalities with ignorance of
the true remedy. This should induce the most
oonservatfve to receive not merely without repug-
nance, but with positive gratitude, every attempt
to diagnose the malady which is keeping modern
society in a perpetual eruptive fever, and to pre-
scribe a genuine remedy, however drastic. Stell-
macher seems to have been a man of considerable
mental activity, and, possibly, even of talent. But
in the presence of the problems of social science
he was confounded and could see no light. Had
he not been a man of intellectual part?, he could
searcely have attained the position, unenviable
as it was, of editor of the Vienna Freiheit
(“Freedom the Austrian organ of the anarch-
ists. Had he conceived that a simple and not
necessarily violent method existed, whereby the
fearful injustices of the social arrangements could
be remedied, he would not, probably, have adopted
the course counselled by one of the comforters of
Job to “ curse God and die.” For that’s what he
did. At his trial his “defence” was, that Society
was criminal, that his mother and father had died
of hunger, and that he didn’t believe in God.
Through the mists which obscure social science*
this wretched man distinguished, as he believed,
one gigantic fact looming. It was, that riches are
the source of all misery. In other words, that the
extreme inequalities of condition are chargeable
with the sum of human wretchedness. Not having
the inspiration to perceive tnat there are methods
by which these inequalities maybe made to peace
ably disappear and being cursed with a necessity for
action, Stellmacfier conceived that he would be
doing good work by killing off the ricb-an insane
projeet which could only operate to the advantage
of heirs. Now, rich people are protected by police-
men, who interfere with patriots desirous of
benefiting humanity by discriminative slaughters.
So the frantic Stellmachek commenced his mis-
sion, with the logic of the insane, by undertaking
first to clear off policemen. He had only entered
upon this stage of His process of his reform when
Society pounced upon him, and murdered him-as,
ndeed, was very necessary. His career and fate
elicits from a writer in Vanity Fair the neat
comment that “the unfortunato termination of
his career shows the folly of religious sceptic,
ism; but it is satisfactory to know that
Society, however criminal, will at least save tim
from sharing the distressing fate which overtook
his interesting parent.*.” This is, as we have ad-
mitted, very neat. But it strikes us as just a trifle
flippant, and as quite an inadequate attempt to
x tract a moral from the affair. At the present
time the conditions of social life in Europe are
breeding myriads of such maggots as this Stell,-
machek in the fermenting dunghills of the slums
of great cities dunghills created by the operation
Of the system agaipet which craok-brained furies
try to combine. Unless Soeietyrecognise3tliat.it
is diseased, and listens to reasonable prescriptions
for medical treatment, it will, sooner or later, be
subjected to brutal and bloody surgery by the
Stellmachers. It must be borne in mind that de-
nials that Society is diseased are totally useless. It is
impossible to persuade men whose fathers and
mothers died of starvation, or whose children are
obviously condemned to a life of horrible misery,
that social conditions are healthy and natural. If
Society succeeds in kicking its Henry Georges
out at the front door, with their unwelcome but
comparatively mild panacea in tbeir hands, it will
assuredly have to encounter its Stellmachers
creeping or rushing through the back door with
steel and dynamite, and other brutal and murder-
ous surgical appliances.
A Liberal Organ.
Mr. William Richarpson, who seldom fails to
turn up at a public meeting to court temporary
distinction by controverting the propositions
before the meeting, whatever they may be, made
his appearanco in his usual good form at the
Secularists' meeting on Saturday last. His de-
portment on that occasion proved of some service
to the community, thus illustrating that even the
meanest things have thc-ir use in the economy of
nature. The particular servici effected by Mr.
Richardson on this occation was to afford the
public an opportunity of contrasting the spirit in
which the Sydney Morning Herald and the
Daily Telegraph are conducted, as exemplified
by their reports of proceedings, probably equally
distastoful to the conductors of both journals.
The episode in which Mr. Richardson figured
is thus reported in the Herald:—“He (Mr. Rich-
ardson; did not admit that Secularists had any
religion. He would say that the Liberals had no
religion, or would go a step further and say they
had no morals (Groans and uproar.) The'chair-
man, amid confusion, in answer to an appeal from
one of the audience, called upon the speaker to
keep to the question, and not to detain the meet-
ing too long. Mr. Richardson, proceeding, sa : d
be had attended some of their religious meetings
and they taught that murder was right and rob-
bery was right. (Dproar, and the speaker was
called to order by the eliairman.) He was going
to argue that the state ought not to give permis-
sion to teach such morals to any children. Roman
Catholics an I others taught religion with morality
in it, but that which Secularists taught had no-
thing but immorality in it. Confusion ensued, and
ultimately a resolution was agreed to that Mr
Richardson be not heard, and, after vaislv
attempting to further address the meeting
he resumed his stat. among the audience’’
in the D. Telegraph the report is fuller, bi’ t
essentially to the same effect. Mr. Richardson
is reported to have told the Secularists that “ he
did not admit that the secularists had any religion
He bad attended some of tbeir temples of worsbiD
and he knew they had no rpJigion. He would go a
step further, and say they had no morals. (Hisses
and uproar.;—l attended some of your Gospel
services, or modern Secular theological leciures
and have heard this referred to: ¥ou can do no’
wrong; whatever is, is right. Murder is right- in-
cest is right, and robbery is right. (Great’dis-
turbances ).... When Roman Catholics, Mahom-
medans. or Protestants tev.ch religion, tbeie is
morality in it, but when the Secularist teaches re-
ligion there is nothing but immorality in it.’’
Upon this, the Chairman declared Mr. Richard-
son to be out of order, and a member of the
audience moved that Mr. Richardson be not
longer heard, as he was insulting every person
present. This motion was seconded and carried
The Daily Telegraph puts a heading to the
episode thus: The Secularists Object to
“Free Speech.” And further on introduces the
refusal of the meeting to hear a Mr. Jones in
the strain that “if you want to demoralize
the colony, teach the people Secularism ” with
a heading of a similar character, thus: “More
Free Speech.” The S.M. Herald thus reports
this incident: “An individual here rose from the
audience and ascended the platform. He inter
rupted the proceedings in such a way that the
meeting decided by lesolution not to hear him
and he was then shown off the platform ’
The implication of the Telegraph is, of course’
that the Secularists, while clamouring for the
right of free speech for themselves, refuse to con-
cede it to their opponents. That is to say, the
Daily Telegraph suggests that professed a'd vo-
cates of Freethought and free speech are humbugs
and impostors, because, when at one of their
assemblages a notorious brawler mounts the plat-
form an*l assails them with tirades of abuse, they,
in a formal and decent way, decline to submit to
bis insults. The Daily Telegraph was to show
the S.M. Herald how Liberal journalism should
be conducted. In this instance the Herald has
certainly scored strongly against it.
„ thoroughly typical case of Harmv
ISKBsragsgF?
the lost one, thinking* if* hiccupped
another drink. Do you come now ‘' a^ 1011 to
tains, witn their arms “r^ ap -'
murmured the sheep. So, after Jy ’.
thanksgiving over the nn« a ®r§ d hymn of
the fountain, they irave 80 Vi dep08ited in
his bed, and a bob for h?s rea k frJt* rfj *r a bob . for
and started ljim off joyfully 4 mornl “S’.
tbs time he’d knockeddown A 8 D . ew ? aree t- By
nearest hotel, tb?s son of ‘afi tw ,° bob at tb «
filled with the holy spirit that ho^n 110 " was 80
ssssrww^^S^^^Taassrss
“S SSi; sn oo»,4? "K
as s'hoon joiu-pleeeh.' ™ d fool: why - I’d Just
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name ncr mm-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.']
“Philanthropist”: Similar experiments
were tried by Lord John Russell, Palmerston, and
Disraeli, so ’twas only fair that Gladstone should
he allowed a turn “S. L.” : Received
Stranger (Yass): Dealt with. The whipping of
LUlyorop at Yass was a greater outrage on
humanity, decency and public sentiment than
all tue blasphemy set adrift in New South
Wales since Cook’s ship sighted Port Jackson..
Liberal : It is Egypt, not Ireland, that is the
Niobe ot nations. But who cares for the tears
oi a black Niobe? *’Querist”: Wc caD-
not say why Bank employes and their wives
i °'. 1 . ~ l eade rs of ton in country places. No
doubt they II continue to claim the pas so long
a ® tbeir neighbours continue to yield it...
Wagga ”: The sketch is innocent enough, but we
are not surprised at the Evening Alfred’s hesi-
tation to publish it, as that journal, in its minute
account ot the “ Pender scandal,” rightly objects
to !. r , 5? a ’.V craving for sensationalism.”
.... Old Soldier : The colonies sensibly enough
liv. 1 ? 6 ® to pay for imperial troops, who would bo
withdrawn on the first appearance of European
troubles... “True Blue ”: Of course, it’s odd that
so many dunces should come to the political front-
under manhood suffrage. But the thing is not
peculiar to N.S. Wales, although we do apparently
get more than our fair share of noodles “Vic-
torian ”: So far as we know, no assault worthy of
the name has been made on the positions taken up
bv George in “Progress and Poverty ” and “Social
Problems. The Duke of Argyll’s attack in the
Nineteenth Century was ludicrously abortive....
Tom Paine ”: Neither the guilt nor innocence of
Oordini was, to our mind, established by the evi-
dence at the trial, a presumption of guilt was
established. At the same time, but forthe national
and sectarian questions you refer to, it is probable
that the verdict and execution would have be< n
silently acquiesced in, as is usual in such painful
cases. Alex. B. Neilson ” (Windsor): The Mr.
R. R. Haverfield you mention, who conducted
papers at Bendigo and Echuca, is still alive, and
when we were at Sandhurst a year ago, appeared
likely to see a good junk of the twentieth century
before sending in his card to St. Peter. For years
he has been editor of the Bendigo Advertiser
A letter addressed to that office cannot miss him.*
We could tell you a lot about him-to his credit
be it said-but now that you know his address, you
can go on vourown hook. Hearn ihe other dav
he was giving lectures on the old digging times.
1 hey should be worth hearing. .. “ Crayon ”: Par-
lour sketch mislaid. The new ones good idea.' Will
be used.... ” W. 8.”: We kuew, somehow, you’d
turn up with the prize poem just to give us a lilt
melancholy •* r openin,fJiDes runs a ripple ot tender
“ That beautiful land where I in boyhood was
reared,
Where the cold winters pass and the bright spring
appears; 8
No spot have I seen where the sheep sheds its
wool,
Where the wild diisy grows in the month of
April.”
The allusion to the hitherto unnoticed wool-shed-
ding peculiarity of the sheep struck us as being
singularly felicitous, and sugges s the po.-sesxiou
by you of keen powers of observation. The
rhyme, too, between “wool ’ and “ April” marks
a new and sensible departure. It was quite time
that somebody s<-ut his foot through the partition
that would-be rhymesiers set up to preserve what
they insolently considered thei.- private property
Muc l as we would wish to give all your powerful
verses, we cannot fiod room this number. At the
same time, we must print that suggestive one:—
“ 1 watched the sheep grazing, 1 saw the lambs
playing.
Jumping up and down the old mould hill •
under laid the warriors of old,
Who lived in the days and died for Cromwell.”
And now kind friends are asking us why our head
is shaved, and who are the honest meu with
bludgeons who fo low us up and down Pitt-stieet.
Go , d y ? u ’ W.B. We may, in time, but
not till our hair grows. 1 j
A semsjUaotml incident occurred in the
Melbourne Temperance Hall (the other night A
blushing little “hallelujah lassie’’ of eighteen
summers was warbling out “the story of her fall
and rescue, from the platform, when who should
8po !’ fetidly reclining iu one of the
front seats, but the vile seducer. ’ “There he
is, said the modest Magdalene, pointing to the
v >»eone ; he is continually pestering me to live
with him, and only the other day he got off his
bicycle in the street, and threatened to tbrasb me
if I didn t consent to his proposals.” This was
rather an unpleasant position for the voung man
who is said to occupy a good social position ”
(vide Hehald), but it had its subsequent consola-
tions. All the hysterical Salvation maidens take
an immense interest in that young man now
They worship him, and would do anything to save
a sinner possessed of such an ardent disposition
that he actually got off his bicycle to make pro-
posals. As the poor Pope once observed, “ Everv
woman is at heart a rake,” and even “ lassies ’’are
women, although they don’t look it.
Lord Aberdare, as President of the Royal
Geographical Society, has bestowed a medal on
Dr. \ on Haast, of New Zealand, a eulogium unon
mo Kev. Mr. Chalmers, of New Guinea and a
creditable mention upon Mr. John Forest, who ex
P‘o| r ®d tb( r. Kimberley district; but has not given J
syllable ot praise to Armtt or Morrison, in fact
he went the length of making little of the heroin
enterprise of the Melbourne newspapers that sent
raen °ut among the cannibals
Lordship is very cruel and purhlind. Had the
society over which he presides simply refused in
honour the names of Armit and Morrison Jhat
would have passed. It was an understood Vu.v. 4
all along that the honour of the thing was to roost
with the spirited proprietaries. It is in
to honour these atter that his Lordship shows he
is purblind in colonial atfa.rs. And he is hea?tTessl v
cruel, inasmuch as he r, fuses any recompense
the columns of matter that were written
each oiHce describing the last struggles and death
of its explorer, and ready for print the instant fh«
expected news arrived. The nrom-iitor. 0 ™ 0
cheated by the explores returniiy a?ty‘“nd St
S’,®Lori' 1 ' hrb'eerS'^Tu


Political
Points
“Another Plot against the Czar,” was
cabled the other day. No cable ever comes about
“Another Plot against the Russian People.” Pro-
bably because it’s the same old plot the Czar Is
working all the time.
“Abyssinia is to be allowed to annex Kas-
gala and A\ endab as a reward for relieving the
Egyptians.” That’s a cablegram. Paraphrased it
means that Abyssinia is to steal Kassala, &c., as a
reward for helping the first set of thieves to get
otf safely. And the arrangement is made by Ker-
ristian England. Woe unto ye, Scribes and Phari-
sees; hypocrites!
Our expectations about the Blenheim
pictures have been realized. The country which
originally paid for them has been asked to buy
them back at 1000 per cent, increase of price. The
Duke of Marlborough wants the trustees of the
National Gallery to give him 350,000 guineas for
eleven pictures. At present they decline. But,
doubtless, he will manage to intrigue the thing.
More Pbariseeism. The Cairo correspon-
dent of the London D.T. mentions that the Govern-
ment bulletin reports only one crime on a certain
day in all Upper and Lower Egypt, and remarks
that the improvement on the condition three
months ago is attributable to the English police
officials. On the same day, there were over a
thousand crimes in Great Britain. What were
they attributable to ?
The Rum's London correspondent asks
what Mr. Henniker Heaton’s Sydney friends will
think when they hear of him as M.P. for the his-
torical city of Thomas A’Beckett. Well, they’ll
think that electoral arrangements in the mother
country must be rotten and corrupt even beyond
what was believed. Here, where Jack Heaton,
alias J. Henniker Heaton, is known, every con-
stituency he addressed rejected him with con-
tempt.
While a steam yacht from Plymouth was
carrying Prince Alfred to Mount Wise it ran down
a boat and drowned two persons. This sort of
thing seems to run in the family. It was the run-
ning down by the Royal yacht, with the Queen on
board, of a pleasure boat, and drowning two ladies,
that Prince Leiningen so endeared himself to the
British na’ion. But it was only the other day,
after an interval of ten years, he was appointed
Admiral in command at the Nore.
Lord Bramwell, the English Judge, has
administered to the Sabbatarians such a pungent
pill as should certainly stir up their sluggish, sancti-
monious livers. Many years’ experience on the
Bench had taught him, said the bold Bramwell,
that Sabbath-breaking, so-called, was the begin-
ning of all crimes, simply “because it was the
most easy, most natural, and most rational of all
things that a man, woman,or child could do. A child
taught that it was as wicked to break the Sab-
bath as it was to lie or steal, naturally got a very
confused notion of morality. He hoped that,
before long, innocent amusement on Sunday, such
as cricket and lawn-tennis, would be sanctioned
by public opinion in England.” Bravo Bramwell 1
The Central Irrigation League of Victoria
are working might and main to raise as much
money as will float a journal to advocate their
particular interest. They have already doomed it
to bear the name of the Australian liirigation-
ist. That name will go a good way towards killing
it, but, as if the name were not enough of an in-
verse blessing, rumour has it that no less a hand
than Watters will brandish the editorial quill. It
was often a wonder to a big part of this southern
world why the noble Hugh was allowed to survive
while youth and beauty passed away. The cat is
out of the bag now. Destiny held him over for
this. He will write a leader in the Australian
Irriqationist, and wrapping the first copy about
him, will ascend and be seen no more of men.
Mr. Solicitor Russell, member of the Sun-
day Observance Society (qualified for such mem-
bership, we presume, by his Milburn Creek
experiences), opines that it will be well if the
Preethoughtists don’t have an eternity of hell.
That is what, he contends, the S. O. 8. fear Free
Thought will lead to, and not only that , but gross
immorality. This reminds us of another lawyer,
who, in au address to a jury, declared that his un-
fortunate client had lost all he had in the world—
yes, all he had in the world, and also his hat. So,
according to Russell the attorney, freethinking not
only leads to hell, but also to immorality. We
should like to know where the S. O. 8. believes
that Milburn Creekism leads to; but we forgot,
with the orthodox respectable
“ Slightly irregular ’* dilutes the shame
Of what had once a somewhat blunter name.
Says the Auckland Weekly News, all
innocent like“ Sir J. Vogel is anxious to be in
Parliament, not because he cares for the country
and wishes to serve it, but because he hopes to
make money out of it, and thinks he will be able
to do this better if he has a seat in the House.”
We wouldn’t live in New Zealand for anything, if
Politicians of this type can find means to drift into
power. Now, here in N. S. Wales, or in Queens-
land, we have no politicians of that stamp. A
man who should be discovered using his political
power to do good for himself would be damned
instantly. What should we think, for instance, if
we found a leading M.P. hunting up where good
resumptions are going on, and telliDg his Uncle
Sammy, with a wink, that he wishes to serve his
country, and that it behoves every man to bleed
for it when called upon, and, anyhow, to buy up
ns much as he can get of section G.? No, thank
heaven, we are spared that. It will be an ill day
when the Press of this colony will insinuate self-
ishness in her patriots; so ill, in fact, that we get
sick over the strain of trying to imagine it.
‘ Our readers are well aware,” says Modern
Society, “ that the Queen’s private fortune is very
•urge. Since her husband’s death, her retirement
from the exercise of her public functions must
nave enabled her to save even a considerable pro-
portion of the £60,000 a year alio wed her by a grate-
ful nation for pocket money (all her expenses being
Paid lor her over and above that sum to the amount
°f an annual £600,000); and, besides all this, one
man alone, haviDg no relatives, left the Queen
personally a million of money. Thus Her Majesty
js a very wealthy woman, and we cannot help
thinking that the poor Princess Alice’s frequent
B uggestions that she needs a change, but cannot
spare the money for it—that her palace is only half
furnished, and very uncomfortable in that state—
that seven new gowns arc wanted for herself and
her girls for the summer, and that, as she cannot
juford half-a-crowtn a day for a dressmaker in the
house, she must put every stitch in them herself
mot only embroider them, as she pathetically says,
cut make them outright)—all this sort of thing
“Ppears to us to be only the gentle hint of the poor
u&ughter of a millionaire mother that £6OOO a year
18 not a limitless income, and could bear increase.”
The same influence which dragged Admiral
Prince Leiningen from the temporary obsouration
into which it had been considered judicious and
necessary to keep him for some years in conse-
quence of the reckless destruction of the lives of
vwo harmless ladies—Her Majesty's beloved sub-
jects—by running down their yacht with the
learner conveying the Q,ueen in person, of which
be , was , in command, has just elevated Lord
Chelmsford. His Lordship’s claims upon favour
were very much on a footing with Prince Leinin-
iren s. The noble General had, by his flagrant
incapacity, sacrificed eight hundred gallant soldiers
—also Her Majesty’s beloved subjeots. To relieve
himself from the odium, the truly noble
lord alleged that Colonel Durnford, one of
the slain, had brought about the catastrophe
by neglect of precautionary orders given by the
General. This plea was thoroughly investigated
at the time, and shown to be a miserable dodge.
General Lord Chelmsford has now been appointed
to the command of the Tower of London—a post
which has always been conferred as a reward for
distinguished services. The appointment has
evoked from Colonel Durnford, brother to the
man who died at Isandhlawana, astrong and scath-
ing protest, which is thus summarized in the con-
cluding paragraph of Colonel Durnford’s letter:—
“The situation, then, is this : An officer, living,
brings a charge against another officer, who is
dead, which charge is proved to be entirely with-
out foundation. The authorities decline to con-
sider the matter, and therefore deny to the dead
officer that justice which he, if alive, could and
would have demanded. As long as the living
officer was permitted to remain unemployed, one
could in some manner comprehend the line the
authority s have taken; but now that a valuable
appointment is conferred upon the living officer,
what can the inference be but that his conduct, is
approved, and thus the injustice to the memory of
A MODEST LITTLE THING OF OUR OWN.
the dead is bitterly emphasized ? ” After all, how-
ever, there is a certain appropriateness in the
appointment. The Tower of London is a fortress
which is incapable of being defended against a
real attack. W hat could be more fitting than to
confer the command of it upon a general who is
notoriously incapable of defending anything.
• • •
Says the Echo:— “Give Ireland the free-
dom enjoyed by all the greater colonies, allow her
to manage her local affairs, and we snail have no
more dynamite explosions.” Yes, the Echo, not
Granny’s reflected wail, but the London paper of
that name—a real paper, you know.
* * *
The Sultan has been visited by Prince
Rudolph of Austria and his bride. The Sultan
gave Rudolph a jewelled sabre worth £40,000. and
the Princess a diamond necklace worth £33,000.
The sweat of his brow.
The Rum asseverates that it is British to
the backbone (only think of that now!), and then
adds, “We are inwardly what we are outwardly.”
Limp and soft sort of a backbone, anyway, if
that’s the case. If, now, the Rum had protested
it was anytbingarian to the alimentary canal, we
should have felt bound to have endorsed the
statement with a cordial “ hear, hear.” But for it
to talk of owning a backbone is overwhelmingly
too too.
“ THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession. ]
The Maitland Mail understands that
“ the Maitland Rommany (sic) Dramatic Club is
now established on a firm footing.” This reminds
us of our lot. What, in thunder, has become of
them ? Are they dead, or have they taken public-
houses. Bloxsome is still about, looking lovely,
but the rest have faded. We are sorry for this,
since it deprives us of the pleasure of good-
naturedly chronicling their dramatic doings. Be-
sides, what will become of the charities now that
these nice people no longer play for them ? Why,
some of the institutions got quite rich through the
Romanys. This used to be about their balance
sheet:—Dr : receipts £130: Cr.: rent of theatre:
£35, refreshments £24, cab hire £l4, scene-shifters,
&c., £lO, professional “ coach ” £lO, copying parts
£6, supper after performance £22, carpeting and
decorations. &c., for His Excellency’s box,
£l2, wig hire, coiffeur, &c., £5 65.; handed to
treasurer of Decayed Noblemen’s Asylum £l3 15s;
total, £l2O. It is stated (we nover believed it) that,
on one occasion, when a “ben.” was given for the
Boilerless Baronets’ Home, thero was a deficit of
some £7; upon which the manager of the Romany?
with a sense of humour that did him credit, called
on the treasurer of the 8.8.’s Home, and suggested
that he (the treasurer) should make that sum up to
the club. Who will ever forget that noble comedian
whose eyes were always glued to his boots, or the
fascinationg soubrette who used to audibly ask
the prompter to “speak a little louder, please?”
Talking or the Homanys reminds us that we were
once told by one of their professional “ coaches ”
that, whenever he went to conduct a rehearsal at
Government House he used to take a pocket-flask
with him. He knew he was mortal, he said, without
being reminded of it by the vice regal port —
The Taylor trio and “the little performing dog
Pattie” are appearing at the Town Hall, Mary-
borough. More joy Radcliff, the flautist, Pauline
Rita, and Professor Hume of skull-iiig .celebrity,
were recently all at Wagga. Badclitf is said to be
a wonder. So is Hume, though not in the same
way. But everybody can’t be expected to play
the flute, you know Santly the superb is at the
Towers with the Marionettes. Harry, it will be
remembered, was for years with Tommy Hudson’s
Surprise Party. He flnds the Marionettes agree
with him Better. A man can’t be always young,
though Harry will certainly be always beautiful.
Perhaps that’s the reason that Yes, and
Woodyear’s Circus is there, too. But the mashers
in it have no show with Santly’s prima donna...
There are also, at the T.R., Charters Towers, a
“ Picnic Party,” the directress of which appears
to be Miss Violet Sheridan. That Bounds
better than Smith. The agent is F. Freer
On the subject of “ Camille, it is astonishing to
notice what a number of ways an intelligent public
has of pronouncing it. Go into the stalls of our
Theatre Koyai, and you will hear something like
this “How d’you like her ‘ Kummeel ’ ? “First
time you ever saw ‘Karmil’?” “Powerful play,
‘ Camel ’ ?” “Always was fond of ‘Kummile’,” etc.
Byerg—the renowned James—gave a show at
South Creek the other day. Here’s some of his
ad.:—“Miss Marion Saunders, the World’s Prima
Donna. [I!!] (Contralto.) Julia Hudson. These
ladies get £3 per night each. [!!!!] MissLeston.
Robert Croft, Ventreloquist ’’ (sic). Three pouwds
anight! Fancy! We wonder what Bob gets! By
the way,there’s nothing of the Ban about this Croft.
Funny, this, at this time of day! The Ballarat
police object to Cbiariani’s lion tamer going in the
cage; but it was made right, on—don’t laugh—“ the
manager saying he was prepared to accept the re-
sponsibility.’’ It is only a question of time how
soon that tamer will be scrunched up. And no
wonder! He beats and prods the wretched animals
during the whole time they are in the arena. How-
ever, when he is made a jelly of and cleared away
with a broom, Mr. Chiarini will be “responsible.”
This ought to console the man And, of course,
Allison is bringing out some more people: Remen-
yi, a Hungarian violinist, to boot—or rather, to
Addle. If he is not—and that is hardly possible—
an improvement on Wilhelmj, Remenyi's Re-
menyi-scences of Australia are likely to be of a
lively character. The country papers,' by the way,
out here, used to call Wilhelmj “ Wilkenville ”
And this, we think, is about all we can remember.
The two Dows are at it, up and down, up
and down. J. L. gets together his small bundle of
requisites, and in the early morning disappears
from Collins-street. Next day you hear he is away
far off in the interior, filling the heads of the
farmers with visions of Californian cauliflowers.
You hear that by a wire which the penny paper
publishes from some unpronouncable place out-
side the sphere of civilisation. And invariably
the wire tapers off with the following spin ; “ A
vote of thanks was passed to the lecturer, and also
to the spirited proprietors of the Leader for the
enterprise they have shown on behalf of the
farming interests of the colony.” In a day more,
J. L. trots up Collins-street,'creeps into his den,
spreads himself over the table, gets his feet on a
shoe-trunk, and writes up a column of agricul-
ture for the next issue. He is no sooner back,
however, than T. K. sallies out. When T. K. is
heard from he is also in the far away, transfigur-
ing the turnips of '1 ennessee. And your hear from
him through a wire in the twopenny paper, whioh
invariably tails thus : “ A vote of thanks was
passed to the lecturer, and also to the spirited pro-
prietors of the Australasian for the enterprise
they have shown on behalf of the farmipg inter-
ests of the colony.” And in a day more T. K.
trots up Collins-street, gets into his den, and
grinds out his week's share of the next Austral-
asian. Par nobile fratrum! Hey, whether do you
or we enjoy the joke more ? Hey I
Wesleyan Parson Rutledge, of ramworth’
in one of the finest sermons it has been Hooke’s
lot to hear for a long while, declared that the
penalty for sin was eternal, and that the state of
the lost was a real and conscious state of endless
suffering. In support of his views, he said: “If a
man struck a little ohild, he would be punished for
it; but, if he struok the Mayor—(great Scott! just
imagine the iniquity I)—or the Governor—(oh,
Lord!)—he would receive a greater punishment;
but, tell me, what does that man deserve who
sins against God?” God probably knows, and, in
endeavouring to make answer for God, Rutledge
is guilty of gross impertinence; moreover, he is
not only impertinent to God, but snobbish to the
last degree to man. Fancy one who calls himself
the minister of Him who declared that it would
be better for a man to have a millstone bound to
his neck, and for him to bs cast into the depths of
the sea than for him to offend a little child, saying
that one who struck the Mayor or the Governor
would deserve a greater punishment than tho
brute who struck a littie child, and seeking to
make the difference between the enormity of those
two offences, as gauged by his little peddling in-
accurate, clerical, measuring tape, the standard of
gauging God's method of appraising human guilt!
Little Rutledge should leave the things behind the
veil alone.
Verily, the wise man was right, and there
is a soupcon of roguery underlying all professions
and trades except those of the lawyer, the tailor,
and the professional pedestrian. A few days ago
live pianos, consigned to a leadiDg Melbourne firm
of importers, were impounded by the Customs
authorities on the ground that they had not been
invoiced at their proper marset pitch. The honest
lago of the Arm earnestly pleaded, “Oh, tho ’elp
me. Father Abraham, they’re only a job loth o’
cheap thingth thent out for show; ’ but the De-
partment was determined to see the business
through, and taking advantage of a clause in the
Customs Act, purchased the consignment at the
invoice prices, with ten per cent, added, after
which M’Clure, Valantine.and Co. were instructed
to clear the lot by public auction. The sale—to
the intense dismay of the original owners—was
largely attended, and the bidding brisk, the live
pianos being finally knocked down at £45, £62, £6O,
£7O, and £BO. Mot at ail bad figures fora “job lot,”
which were put in hy the Customs respectively for
£l5, £2O, £25, £2O, and £25, or, in other words, at
between 200 and 300 per cent, below the sums they
brought at auction. Rachel, mourning for her
kids, and refusing to be comforted, isn’t a circum-
stance now by the side of Jacob mourning for
“them bianos.”
Bishop Moorhouse is now Chancellor of
the Melbourne University. Up almost to the day
of election it was believed by many that he would
retire from the candidature. On a previous occa-
sion he had given reasons why a minister of a
religious denomination should not be eligible to
sit as the head of an institution essentially secular
and unsectarian. No one attempted to controvert
him. If anyone had attempted to do so, there is
no doubt that the Bishop would have proved him
wrong. He would have shown that the arguments
which foisted a cleric on the shoulders of the Uni-
versity led directly ti a reversal of the principle
which actuates higher education in other coun-
tries, and were in direct antagonism to the spirit
that guides all forms of education in Australia.
As no one opposed his reasons, however, the
Bishop dropped them. There was nothing sensa-
tional in championing truisms, so he stepped
across to the other side and made it Known
that he would feel very glad if elected. See-
ing the episcopal "right-about,” the Senate and
graduates mustered to save their Alma Mater
li-om the reproach of being sectarian. Forty-two
members of the Senate aud graduates of the Uni-
versity drew up a petition against the Bishop’s
election. They embodied in the petition the very
reasons Dr. Moorhouse had given in the first in-
stance. But the Bishop was at the other side of
the house now, and the petition only stirred him
up to persevere in working through the altered
programme. He won sweepingly. Old Doctor
BrowDless, a quarter of a century vice-chancellor,
the colleague of Sir Redmond Barry and Sir W. F.
Stawell, the trio who did more lor the repute ol’
the University than any dozen men in tho South,
got only two votes. But the question at issue is
not as between Dr. Brownless and the Bishop. It
is as between a clerical and a lay head. The
partisans of the clerical interest have won, and
have obtruded their man upon the public. But
the reputation of the University has lost. Dis-
guise it as people may try to, the fact is, that an
institution, supposed to ombrace the colony and
to be above the accidents of creed and class, has
now accepted as its head the Protestant Bishop of
of one of the dioceses.


Personal
Items
father Fogarty, formerly of Waggff. is to
fote one of the professors 1q the Homan Catholic
College at Goulburn. Father Fogarty is a good
Ant clever mad. It is a pity he is a foreUner.
Judge Wilkinson Is in favour of shortening
Sermons. Only very young curates or very old
and foolish ministers would quarrel with him for
this, The wise and pious section of the clergy care
little what is shortened so long as it isn't the col-
lections.
Just another line about little Bailey. He
wasone of the candidates mentioned forthe Man iro
constituency. But he was not proposed, as ho did
not go up to Cornua. Yet he is very popular there
—so popular that, if he had gone up, each of the
electors would have taken a piece of him home.
The late Sir Michael Oosta seems to have
been a bit of a fraud. Six months bolore his death
be gave out that lie had lost his all in speculations.
Ho a big subscription was got un for him. Now it
seems that he died worth £.'lo 000. Well, all we can
say is, if hr gets in, St. Peter is not the man—saint
we mean—that we took him for.
They have not finished elogising poor
Prince Leopold yet. The last lament over him
says, among ether things, that a “shining angel
. . . gently drew the bandage from his eye..”
If it took one angel to do that, it is lair to conclude
that it took two-thirds of the heavenly choir to
take the bandages off the rest of him.
“ Quidnunc,” in the Bitrrowa Times, says
—“Dulton, the Queensland Land Minister, means:
to boldly go in for "no more alienation” ot the
agerpublicus." Who the deuce is “ Dulton ? ” We
don’t ask who “Quidnunc” is. That is quite un-
necessary. His sausages, we believe, are like the
last detected post-office thief—"popular in the
district.”
The old Balacliva hero has died again.
This time at Canterbury, England. His name was
Thomas Cook, and he was stated to he an attrac-
tive ruin. In his pocket was found a letter con-
taining 12 postage stamps, and a scrap of paper
containing the following legend:—” My offering to
the venerable warrior. But l would not be known.
J. H r H —n.” He had bled upon the tented
field; but this last chunk of glory Killed him.
Ernest Morrisou’s New Guinea fiasco
brought one good man out. His name is Snow, I
and he has, within the last week or two, returned !
toCooktown.after nearly twelve monthsof louely
exploration in the Unknown Land. He was pro-
specting for gold, but says it is not payable. Yet
ho proposes to return as soon as possible. Tois
seems curious. Perhaps, however, he has acquired
a taste for cannibalism which he finds it expensive
to gratify in more oivilised countries.
Thomas Sawyer is missiug. We learn this
from the Southern Cross, a paper frequently
published at Junee. It seems to be surprised at
tbis conduct on the part of Thomas. We are not.
And, indeed, to indulge in the variety of a 1 ttle
verse, we t-hould think that—
This surprise Is too absurd, sirs,
Over Thomas, seeing he
Was—we give its very words, sirs -
Last seen, drinking at Junee
Mr. M. J. Fitzpatrick, the broth of a boy
who ran Sir Wiggy Allen so close for the Glebe, is
the new editor of the Narrabri Argus. Fitz is a
brilliant individual. He used to help “J.G.” to
1111 in with letter-press the spaces around the
blook-blisters in Darlry’s Delight, and, subse-
quently, in conjunction with the above-named
patriot, brought out a comic paper at Liverpool,
where it was much appreciated by the inmates of
the •sylum. We wish Mr. Fitzpatrick luck. Two
E laces have long been howling for him. One is
eaven, and the other Narrabri.
Somebody is about to start a paper
in Merrlwa. For the information of our
readers whose geography was neglected in
favour of shepherdimr during the days of their
youth, we may mention that Merriwa is a town-
ship iu the Hunter Kiver district, and is chiefly
remarkable for the extent of its pounds and the
stately architecture of its lock-up. It is pleasant
to think that such bar-room lights and pitch-and-
toss tournaments as oocur there will glow in the [
Jiages of the future Fitzpatrick, instead of pass-
ng into the cold shades of oblivion.
Mr. R. H. Collins, who used to look after
the jam-pots of the Duke of Albany at Claremont,
has been made a C.B. What, we wonder, are they
going to make the gillie who did the mosaic work
thrice daily ? Honours should be even in this deal,
anyhow. It's a funny thing they didn’t make
John Brown something big. bv-the-wav. Perhaps
though, if ho had been elevated to the Peerage, it
would have been you know how people will .
However, he's had lots of honouis showered upon
him since he lay mouldering in his grave. That
should console, if not JohD, at least, his relations.
Judge Cope, of the Melbourne County
Court, likes hi* little joke, and judicial wit, some-
how, generally flashes out brightly over a mil-
liner's bill. The worthy Justice got a chance the
other day during the hearing of a case in which a
giddy squatter was ca/led upon to pay for the "un-
derwear'of a Jady unconnected with his family
After looking over the various items of the dis-
puted bill, Judge C. asked, with a look of innocent
enquiry, “ What is a combination ? in what station
of life would a person need that?" And through
the Court there ran the soft, melodious murmur
“ As if you didn’t know!”
They gave Captain Lovelock (of the Harmy)
and the Missisa * farewell tea ’ at the Protestant
Hall the other night. The cantain is shifted to
Lambton, to tike his share of the boulders an i
coal-chunks. Gilmour, the Lambton man, is
reported to be quite used up. Besides beiDg
clothed in glory, he is, they say, enveloped from
head to foot in vinegar and brown paper, and
when at meals has a j ib to prevent his left eye-ball
from falling into his tea-cup. We'll give Captain
Lovelock three weeks before he is down here at
the Infirmary, giving, in a weak voice, an order
for a new set of features and a vulcanite knee
cap.
Joseph Ashwood, of Adelaide, is one of the
latest converts to the grand old Protestant faith
Previous to being sent to the reformatory hulk at
Port Adelaide, Mr. Ashwood cultivated Homan
Catholicism, bu% luckily Baptist missiora y Bam
ber got bolu of uim at the hulk, and _,antly
led him into the Protestant fo>d. But Mr. Ash-
wood’s devotion to the new religion has been un
happily, the means of landing him in limbo ’once
again. A bigoted hatred fur uis former faith and
all its professors, inspired him to steal a priest’s
saddle, in cousequence of which he was duly sent
down. His conviction, you see, was brought about
by bis convictions.
Lord Reidhaven, lately a bumbailiff at
Oamaru (N Z,), has been invited by hD fellow
citizens to stand as member tor the beautiful white
stone city by the sea This is the result of becom-
ing a lord. As long as ho was plain Mr. Grant and
poor, the ex-bailiff could And no better billet in
Oamaru than the one he lately occupied, which is
probably the lowest on the scale ot honest occu-
pations. We have often known men, not other-
wise particular, who preferred to starve rather
than take such a job. Now, however, that he has
become a lord, the Oamaru people And their knees
giving way, and they have suddenly discovered
that the ex-bailiff is a “ bornd” legislator, and they
hasten to grovel at his feet, and petition him to
beoome an M.R.H., and accept £2OO of their money
for doing notbiDg as a legislator, and he has con-
sented.
Mr. S. W. Pye lias beeri leqturirig in West
Maitland upon the entrancing subject of
‘The First Principles of Scientific Agriculture.”
Mr. Kiley, the Mayor, was chairman, and the hal'-
keeper and the juvenile book-duster spread them
selves out to the utmost as an audience. This at-
tendance so disgusted the lecturer, that those who
beard his sentiments after he had wrestled with
and heavily thrown “The First Principles of
Scientific Agriculture,” declare him to be a very
crusty Pye indeed. The pitch, however, is reported
by the M. Mail to be so good that we shall take an
early opportunity of going in for a slice of this
Pye ourselves.
JUST SO!
“Mr. Booth, of the Blue Ribbon Army,
has taken a small farm at Bo wral, where he is re-
siding with his wife and family.” Evening
Alfred.
Blue-Ribbon Booth! Blue-Ribbon Booth!
Is this report we hear the truth ?
Have you, sir, settled on your farm—
Excuse us, but we mean ho harm—
Because there are, you understand.
No drunkards left now in the laud ?
Or is It—let us pause and smile!—
Because you've made your little pile?
There died in Goondiwindi, a short time
ago, a man well known to Queensland pressmen,
and, indeed, to most colonists of long standing.
His name was Henry—or more fam.liarly among
his friends, Harry—Houghton. Thcysayup there
that he came out to Queen'll tnd in the capacity of
pilot to Noah, when tuat festive patriarch beached
the Ark on the shores of Moreton Bay. It is sad to
think that Noah should havo died before him.
But, probably, they havo met bv this time Hough-
ton was a newspaper man, and a dozen other
things, and was considered a very genial and
gentlemanly fellow. The Brisbane Courier says
that “his was, with all his good points, a wasted
and broken life.” This is nonsense. A man has
fulfilled the chief end of living when he dies.
W. H. L. Bailey thinks of dusting his
bluchers in the faces of the Gundageese, and
taking bis plant to Adelong. Suspicion was first
aroused by Bailey having been detected cheapen-
ing a second-hand wheelbarrow to cart the ma-
chinery in. Tho bellman (whose talented dramatic
critiques we have so often noticed) has contracted
to wheel over the “costly household effects” on
his tripe truck, while the composing staff has
agreed—for a trifling increase «u his weekly wage
—to hump over th it bourgeois and long primer,
which is suspected to have descended to Bailey
from his ancestor, Caxton. We suppose, on his
arrival, the great journalist will be welcomed by
the Adelong people en masse. We trust, for
Bailey’s sake, though, there are no brick-fields
there.
The Rev. Dr. Yerner M. White, speaking
at Exeter Hall at the Luther Commemoration
meeting, discoursed on “Romanism, the Parent of
Pauperism,” and “Romanism, the Parent of
Crime,” and proved his theorem by showing that
Ireland was poorer and had a larger proportion of
criminals tban England and Scotland. He is a type
of many venerable bunglers who have drifted into
positions from which their sour littleness of mind
and heart are permitted to impose on thoughtless
people by half statements. If the crime and
poverty of Ireland are directly traceable to a bad
form of religion, to what are the crime and poverty
of Protestant England due? And to what extent
will it be reduced by this Exeter Hall howling of
the Reverend Whites and Blacks, who use tueir
gift of the gab to spread envy, malice, and all un-
charitableness ?
A London correspondent writes:—“ Those
who are in the Inner arena, and are supposed to
know whereof they speak, say that the Prince 01
Wales is one of the most devoted husband lovers
that ever lived.” But did Wales ever come home
after a ten hours’ struggle with a heap of blue
metal, or a chock and log fence, and find his supper
gone cold, and the baby fallen into the wash-tub,
and the fire gone out, and the missis standing over
at the grocer’s door discussing with Mr. Bliffens
how the Tomkinses manage to get along with only
a quarter of a ton of firewood in three months ?
Has the heir-apparent felt that? Why, tn-n, tell
us that his Royal Highness is happy—why floutthe
felicity of tnat Prince in our faces, when wa, the
struggling poor, are comnellel to-to—. But how
can we follow up the refiectiou when the baby has
just fallen into the fire.
Father Tom Cahill, the Melbourne Jesuit,
likes music. He also likes hitting the pulpit
cushion a great bang—which seems slightly con-
tradictory. But he likes metaphors, and that takes
the edge off thejeontradietkm. The other Sunday
he said that music was made in heaven. Is not
that rubbing noses to a heresy ? When we go (say)
to the People's Concerts, or to a comic opera
sometimes, does he mean to say that that is the
sort of thing heaven plumes itself cn making?
When Mi s Arabella Bung Hops down and squeals
Oh, wud I wor a bur-r-d,” or when Mrs. Tootle—
everybody who goes about knows Mrs. Tootle-
strikes up “Dear father, come home till me now, tbe
clock on the staple strikes ten,” does Father Tom
want us to believe that heaven is on its hind legs
wanting us to say we lik o that ? No, we don’t; not
if Father Tom put it on heaven every time.
Perhaps, next to It. B. Smith, the most
important man amongst us is '1 om Kelly. Tom is
Beach’s trainer; and is remarkable for having, for
a decade and a half, pinned his faith to peg-top
trousers. People whs used to call him “Tom, old
bird,” and “Tom, old sport,” don’t do it now.
When they see him, a blaze of broadcloth and
jewellery, standing outside his brother-in-law’s
pub. (Aid. “J. D.” is his brother-in-law), it is
“Mr. Kelly, sir, how do you think it’s goiug to
bo?” Then, of course, Tom twirls his watch-
chain, and tells them just what he doesn’t think
We asked him once, and we believe he told us
what he thought, and we elided on our little pot I
There were two in the race, and the man we
backed came in a splendid second, it is but fair
to add, though, that we backed our own opinion,
and not Tom Kelly's, on that occasion. A lot of
aquatic trainers have had more success than Tom
Kelly—but few are so beautiful.
So glory and loveliness are about to pass
away from Gundagai. Little Bailey is about to
leave. Journalism is too much joy for him. His
intellect is too comprehensive for a country news-
paper. B :t, perhaps, you don’t know him ? Per-
haps-but give us the clappers! Now!
Who knows not little Bailey ? Who
Is there so dead to public rumour ?
We’re pi-oud to say, indeed, we know
This Hercules of rustic humour.
We met him long ago, upon
The border of the broad Pacific;
A smile upon hij features shone
Tnat beaming was, and beatific.
“ Observe,” said we, “this noble sight—
I his mighty seal” Said he, “ Hear, hear!
This is the air for appetite ;
By Gosh, this is the place for beer!”
Pinkstone and Mooney are the names of tho cour-
ageous persons who, if what we hear is true, are
auout to buy the paper that was once filled with
the glory of Bailey. Elicu, Bailey!
This is how the Gundagai Bailey, with
his own ink, sheets home against himself the
charges of the Gundagai Elworthy:— “ We do
not, as a rule, care to cali a brother journalist a
1 ar, but we will qualify the term by stating that
yesterday our contemporary tried very hard to
bell an egregious falsehood and was eminently
successful. The Times positively asserts that, on
the authority of the treasurer of the Ho pital, the
proprietors of this journal did not donate two
guineas to the Hospital. Now, we positively assert
that on the 13th August last, one guinea was
donated, and on 16th May last another guinea was
donated, which, according to the teaching of the
Public School curriculum, makes two guineas.
Now, where does the bowl out come in? ” It must
be the bowl (the flowing bowl) that makes Bailey
Diuid to the bowl out. A guinea given one year
plus another given the next, doesn’t constitute a
two guinea sub.—nivver did, nor ever will—and no
fellow would have been more demonstrative over
the point than Bailey had Elworthy set himself up
for a two-guinea subscriber on the strength of
two s-pa rate one-guinea subs, not made in the
same year.
The great Graham Berry is growing greyer
everyday. His chest is sinking, his voice is broken,
ana his breath comes in gasps. It is little wonder,
ihink °t what it cost him to sit beside the Premier
the other night while the Budget speech was being
® erv *ce proclaimed that he would raise
xoo.iXlO by putting' an extra duty of 3s. a gallon on
spirits. Berry looked as honest as sunrise, but the
way he sent his eye around the House told old
stagers that the composure was affected, and that
he was afraif of something bursting up on him.
Havid Gaunson was spitting on his lingers and
turning over the leaves of old Hansards. Berry
saw him, and looked aloft for strength. When
service ended, Gaunson said. “ In 1875, Mr. Service
(hum) proposed to raise £90,000 by putting an extra
duty of 2s. on spirits. At that time, Mr. Berry
(hum) strongly opposed the idea, urging that as
the working classes were the great consumers of
SP l ™? in the colony, the proposal would impose
additional taxation upon those who paid too much
already. How, ha, bum, how did Mr. Berry come
to assent to it now?” When the House took its
eyes op the great Graham, he mused, “ It is not
years of work that kill a man. It is having to sit
five minutes that way, from time to time.”
At a very late hour of the dav, the Mel-
bourne A nous awoke up to the'belief that
something ought to he said, editorially, about Mr.
John H. Gregory, the Horsham J.P., who is at pre-
sent in durance vile. The Argus, likely, had very
good reasoni lor waiting «o long before venturing
to call John names. It took time to have certified
proofs of his being kept hard and fast breaking
stones behind walls where Argus editorials sei-
dom stray. While there was a danger of John’s
walking up Collins-street and asking to see the
editor, discreet silence in editorials and locals was
the official direction. But we don’t want to take
up cudgels for John. A jury of his countrymen
found him guilty, and we haven’t time to go be-
hind Magna Charta and cypher out his character
on first principles. Our interest in the old man
editorial is concentrated on these passages:—“ It
is unfortunately true that those who live in
country places are subjected to strong tempta-
tions. The tedium of life in these pi ces, where
there is little society, andthat often uninteresting,
is no doubt a cause of this evil,” namely, pecu-
lation. Now, in sober earnestness, statistics show
that that evil is proportionately less in the country
than in large cities. That is why our interest is
concentrated on that part of the article. We al-
ways concentrate it on a falsehood.
WHY ?
Says the Evening News, addressing the
Chairman of the Legislative Assembly: “ Why,
Mr. Cameron, those supercilious sneers at the re-
porters ?”
Yes. why, now, Angus ? Put it straight!
why mve yourself, of late, such airs ?
What have you done, now. up to date,
To wear your hat upon three hairs ?
What were you, sir, ere you got in
The House? what are you, now you're there?
The buughole of a broken bin—
A corner-man stuck in the chair.
A corner-man—the wit without—
. Yet you must tilt with your small lance
At those who helped to haul you out
Of native insignificance.
Yet you—God help us—chew the cud
Of scorn; with sneers your lip is curled,
As from your pedestal of mud
You look down on the woad’ring world.
Oh, Angus, you were never made
For statesmanship, nor yet to sneer:
Those hands were formed to wield the spade,
Tnat head to hold a mouth for beer!
Adelaide Pundii is now conducted by a
Mr. Herbert J. Woodhouse, who, it seems, is net
only the editor of a comic paper, but an artist who
paints ‘ animals’ portraits from life ” into the bar-
gain. We infer, from a glance at the issue of the
paper to hand, that Mr. Woodhouse’s gallery must
contain the counterfeit presentments of a large
number of his staff. A pressure of business hav-
ing, of late, prevented our taking atrip to Ade-
laide, we are unable to state which of Sir Thomas
Elder's camels wrote the following: “ Expressive.
■ It is said that when Belt heard of Lawes’ bank-
ruptcy, he said, ‘Oh. loss!’ (Lawes) ” We, how-
ever. recognise the par. of our old friend, the emu
—the champion nail-swallower of the Adelaide
Botanic Gardens—in this brilliant flight: “Fashion
Follets.—’ The crinolette,’ we read, ‘ is now seeing
its last days.’ Henceforth, then, we suppose it will
be severely (crino)leite alone.” The kangaroo dog,
though, who dashed off (“in a leisure moment")
the appended flash, is a stranger to us: “An even-
ing journal recently published a special article
entitled ‘ The Poets’ bpring.’ Do they, indeed ?
Alas! many poets do not get a chance to ‘spring’
much. [Wenesd hardly say this does not apply to
the bards on this establishment, who are all in
receipt of salaries that are simply princely.— Ed.]”
Tn addition to these quotations, we have only to
chronicle the surprisiug fact that, though his con-
tributors may be dead (excepting on canvass), Mr.
Herbert J. Woodhouse is apparently still alive.
Manchester appears to have enjoyed ducal
jokes at the expense of some of the Melbourne
interviewers. The Herald man looked him up
first, and after a few artful preliminary questions
dug the noble visitor in the ducal ribs, and asked
him what his little game was this time, to which
the Dook replied that he had just run over because
he ‘wanted to see the sun again.” Then “Our
Reported” closed one eye, repeated the rib tickling,
and : “It is rumoured that you have
come out tuis time with the intention of taking
up some new territory.” To which the Dook re-
plied : “ Oh, no, indeed ; I can’t afford to do so,”
au admission ot poverty which was made (so the
Herald said) with “attractive frankness.” No
sooner, however, had Melbourne society made up
its mind that it was “awfully nice of the dear
Dook to come and see the sun ” than the Tele-
graph destroyed the poetic illusion, with another
“interview.” The D.T. man called upon “our
distinguished visitor” on the very day following,
and gathered that “My object in returning to
Australia is to purchase a sheep run, and I am at
present making a tour through your colonies in
Qu~st of a suitable property.” There was the
same attractive frankness, but not a word about
the sun-chasing; so, whether the Herald man’s
suggestion about the “new territory ” inspired a
change in the ducal plans, or whether the sunshine
explanation was merely moonshine right away
through, is still an open question. We incline to
the latter theory, and fancy that Manchester has a
lot more fun in him than most dooks. Dooks are
deucedly depressing, in a general way.
Talk about the intellectual giants of the
Shakesperian age, and the galaxy of talent that
used to hold high revel in the snug little back
parlour of the “Mermaid!” Bah! we’d whisper
1 ' a . ver .v small undertone indeed aboutsuch paltry
affairs as those after looking over the list of tue
god-like guests who assembled to do hoaour to
our cricketing heroes at the recent Savage Club
banQuet in .Lancaster House. 44 First in the place
of rank”—we are quoting the European Mail
now— comes Mr. A. Patchett Martin, founder and
for some years editor of the Melbourne Review,
wh > now represeats in London the Sydney Daily
Telegraph and Tribune, and Mr. Philip Mennell
the London representative of the Melbourne Age
and Leader, and of the South Australian
Advertiser.” William Senior, the ex-editor of
that side-splitting journal the Queensland
Hansard, Sir James Cockle, and Judge Paul lrom
the land of alligators, also, ‘handsome George,'
and the quondam Don Giovanni of Darling Pome
Charley Lett, Hedley of the Age, and”—mark the
sarcasm of the Mail here—‘ Mr. J. Henniker
Heaton, the proprietor of the Sydney Town and
country Journal and Evening News, and wh >
will, we believe, be t&e Conservative candidate tor
Canterbury at the next general election in
England. Proprietor of the Town and Country
Jernil and Even Ooze! Shade of the mighty
Samue 1 ! is it possible that there is one solitary
individual in this world to-day who does not know
that it is the eulehawed Alfred who is the life Hnd
soul of those two saveloy-wrapping rags, and that
John Henniker s influence is limited to Ailing in
the receipts for his wife’s half-yearly share of the
pluaaer V
It is generally known that the ducal familv
ot Northumberland who call themselves Percy
are not entitled by lineal descent to claim that
time-honoured name. The founder of the duchv
was William de Percy, who came over with
William the Conqueror. The male line failed verv
shortly after, and a daughter of the Percvs
married one Joscelyne, who assumed the name of
Percy, and from whom Hotspur was descended
It would be distinction enough, as these vanities
go, to be descended from Harry Hotspur, but
alas! after awhile came Joceline (the eleventh
S le I?A ?' ho v3 a died without male
wf daughter married a Cavendish
, u ® the name of Percy, but died child-
less. Then the widow tried a Seymour. Ho
a Iso took the name of Percy, and he, likewise, died
without leaving an heir. Then the succession fell
to a Sir Hugh Smithson, who had married a
daughter of Seymour. So Smithson took the
much hawked-about name of Percv, and from him
6ent Duke 18 descended. The Duke has
per annum upon which to maintain the
dignity of the ancient lineage—of the Pereys, wlio
are extinct. He is said to be an Irvingite, and to
possess the gift of tongues-only that it doesn't
work m public speaking, in which department he
N aS Harry M ‘Q uade > MP - (° f Windsor,
Buchauan iu the Ruir, writing about
Shylock, says the famous speech delivered on the
Rialto should, "with all deference to Mr. Irvine
be dec aimed with a soul all on fire, and a voice
lull or intense passion ‘swelling into far sounding
melody of strength,’ and carrying with it an over-
powering emphasis of menace and terror to everv
enemy of the wronged aud infuriated Sbylock."
This is David all over. Nothing would be more
natural than tor the Jew to roar it all out, just as
David does when he is defending a public house
boots in a rape case. You know the speech-
• l here I have another bad match, a bankrupt or
a ’ I*® 0 dare scarce show nis head on the
Rialto, a beggar that was used to come so snug
upon the mart. Let him look to his bond! He
was wont to lend money for a Christian courtesy
let him look to his bond.” Shylock would surelv
be aware that if Antonio spat on his face for
pastime, such language would most certainiv
entail upon him a thumping. But still the thing
Is just barely possible. And this reminds us—we
Quote memory—of the following from “Our
I 2P d ” : Lt‘ The flrst time I noticed you,”
said Mr. Boflin to Wegg, “ you were singing ballads
t? a hutcher-boyl" “Oh, you listenea, did you
M nJ aid . l f e!t , S: , BUSpicioUBl): ’ “I did -” replied
M. Boihn, for I knew you would hardly be sing-
ing secrets to a butcher-boy, in the street.” “ r
cannot recall it to mind,” rejoined the crafty Silas
that I ever did so Mr. Bulfin, sir, but I might.’’
With regard to David, himself, he would sing his
own praises on a tombstone, in a graveyard, could
he get a discreetly behaved corpse to come and
listen to him.
Mr. John M‘lntyre’s six months in Eng-
land resemble, in many respects, Maria Monk's
six months in a nunnery. They gave pleasure to
nobody. They were full of trials aud difficulties,
sorrows and disappointments ; and when John
tells about them, you listen as you do to Maria
and are altogether in doubt as to whether the
cusseciness was in the narrator or in the things
told. , John went out to Maldon the other nay
and told his constituents how he got on. He wore
his boots to trie welts hunting 1 up leading- men. A
whistle bring-s the leading- men of Maldon up
standing, witn their mouths open; but, bless you,
he had the deuce of work trotting about, the Stock
Exchange trying to earwig these celebrated per-
sonages. But when he did catch one, he made
him feel it. The dazed man won’t forget the Ter-
rangower gold-mine while there’s a hair on him.
But John was not the only promoter in London at
the time. There were tawny men from India and the
Transvaal shaking sheaves of prospectuses in the
air ’iJ ll i d .^?.m, rine: that evei Y m 'ne on their lists
yielded 200.0000 z. of gold to the ton of quartz.
When John heard the first of these lying, tears
came to his eyes. Water also came to his mouth.
He was ready to undertaken fair thing, and show
the British capitalist that a hundred pounds in-
vested in Maldon was bound to mount to close on
a million inside of thirteen or fourteen months;
but, as he assured his constituents, “ in the face of
such prospectuses there was no chance at all for
an honest, straightforward man like me.” In
desperation, however, he appears to have made
one gigantic hit at getting inside his tawny rivals.
But the way the feat was met was saddening. “If
this mine be as good as you say,” said the capi-
talist, why can t you raise the money in Mel-
bourne? What John wants to know is, who put
them up to ask that? Altogether, he bad a weary
time. With infinite labour he got the Terran-
gower into the light. They induced him to
register the company at £lOO,OOO, which he admits
was a very much larger figure than it was worth,
and then they refused to take the shares, “prin-
cipally through the Transvaal swindling mining
schemes.' Ingenious Transvaal! Ingenuous John!
Lady Loch has been “took up” by the
Meluourne Herald, and that little evening
journal has gushed over tb.e new Governoress
with the greasy fervour usually reserved for
royal personages. Herald reporters, in fact,
waxed so enthusiastic on the subject of her attrac-
tions ohat they got to repeating themselves - like
onions. The poor fellows seemed in a similar
position to that of Mr. Guppy and his friend Job-
-Im?> after the case of spontaneous combustion in
Bleak House, when the landlord of a pub. told
them that so long as they would stand at the bar
and relate details of the catastrophe, they were
weicome to “ anything they liked to put a Dame
to. Mr. Guppy and his friend, after “ putting a
name to everything in the house, commenced
again at the beginning-, and put names twice over
to a good many toings. Weil, our reporters used
up their vocabulary of “butters” in a similar
way. Alter telling us that Lady Loch “always
wears a 'pleasant smile, which gives one the im-
pression that the owner has a kindly heart and a
cpntented mind,” they mention later on that "she
gives one the impression of being an English lady
of the best type, combining the dignity of true
womanhood with a sweet disposition,” and yet,
anon, that ' she has a gracious manner, a pleasant
smne, and is every inch a lady.” These certificates
ot breeding, coming from the Herald, are highly
satisfactory, and we only want the endorsement
ot the Noozw staff to be quite certain that Lady
Loch is every inch a lady of the best type.” But
we \ e v ery little doubt about it, after reading of
the way in which she shakes handj. It appears
that no fewer than 351 gentlemen in rotation en-
joyed the felicity of shaking hands with Lady
Loch on the bridge of the Nelson, and, such was
tae subtle influence of the “handshake,” that
each member of the enraptured multitude went
away witn the feeling that the Lochs were old
friends, and that it would be just nice to drop in
and take pot luck ’ with them,” Now that
pretty little bit about the “pet luck” convinces
us the Herald men are judges of “ tone,” and re-
liable critics of hupper suckles.” By the wav.
it s a pity the same fairy pen didn’t enlighten us
as to Lady Loch a feelings while ticking off the 351.
That would have furnished an opportunity for
some more ' litigant writin’.” *
The Brisbane correspondent of London
vanity Fair introduces to the reading public of
England s metropolis no less considerable a per-
frw h« e n t n»flnoi atii^ S T Fo ° t f’^ :hairrnan of Committees
““ Queensland Legislative Assembly. We pre-
wVh £ teellr Y iA . modesty—a reluctance to
blaze with too much splendour upon the English—
which restrains the writer from sending a little
fePhmal notice of the Honorable the Speaker,
Wiluam Henry Groom. Respecting Mr. James
loote r or, as he is affectionately called, in plavlul
Imitation of his own pronunciation,
we have before now given some particulars. He is
rhn i ar ®f e -“ iQd ed statesman who once declared in
» h^ ueen9lan A^ 6Bembly that the man who gave
a vote against his own interest was a fool. How-
ever we will let in Vanity Fair’s man now
Let me sketch tor you the chairman of our
Election Committee. His name is James Foote
and bis business is that of a storekeeper in a small
country town not iar from Brisbane. In this
of' haVe * een m!tial y w ith shoals
uL 8 t ma^ li.selectors, poor struggling men ilghtiig
hard against the iorees of wild uature. These me*
are glad to put themselves into the hands of a store-
keeper who assists them with supplies on credit,


taking lfens on their scanty crops. It is an exceed-
ingly profitable business —for the storekeeper.
Mr. Foote is a wealthy man. In person, he is enor-
mously fat, and he speaks in the unctuous tones
appropriate to his figure. His education has been
sadly neglected. As one of his relaxations is to
tlgure as a Methodist local preacher, he has ac-
quired a taste for long words, which he murders
in the same manner as a negro. He drops his ha,
and is astonishingly ignorant on all subjects not
connected with his shop or the parochial concerns
of his constituency. In manner he displays the
sime aggressive insolence that you may notice in
a small shopkeeper when he turns from fawning
on a customer to rate an assistant. I don’t want
you to understand that all our politicians are like
Mr. Foote; but he is not an uncommon type of the
rank and file. Sqch men are, however, frequently
found amongst our successful colonists; and Mr.
Foote, if not cut off by fatty degeneration, may
yet bid for a K C.M.G., if not a baronetcy. For
heaven's sake, spare us the establishment of any-
thing like a fixed aristocracy here, lor it must
evidently be one of wealth—an upper.class of en-
nobled Footes, perhaps.”
Ur. Tucker, who left Sydney some time
ago, and started round the woild to look for luna-
tics, is being badly treated. A conspiracy would
seem to have been got on foot to deprive him of
the very proudest privilege which the travelled
man enjoys. Do you think a man goes to the
outermost bounds of the earth merely to bring
back news about the things that are there ? That
would be thin satisfaction for all his trouble. No;
he goes out of sight of kith and kin so as to be
able to bring back word about things that never
were there or anywhere. That’s the chief charm
of the thiDg. Take it away, and travelling is a
superannuated institution. We therefore sympa-
thise with ;Dr. Tucker when they bowl him out
about those statements of his concerning the luna-
tics in Gheel. Not that w© defend this kind ef a
lie. It is his abstract traveller's privilege for
which we stand up. If it appears right in the eyes
of the world to knock that privilege on the head,
we are ready to welcome both sentence and exe-
cution. But we protest against a man being taken
unawares. Here is the situation. Dr. Tucker
went through the colony of Gheel in Belgium. That
colony consists principally of lunatics. Now, any
man would think that the doctor had here plenty of
legitimate room to lay himself out. When he got
as far off as Paris he did so. He spread a bit.
Thereupon the Belgian newspapers attack him,
and roll his statements up. And the Government
institute an enquiry, and pound his statements
out flat and make pulp of them. When we heard
this, all we inferred wai that the Belgian news-
papers and Government must have very, very
little to do, and must be lamentably ignorant of
the rights a British community confers on a loyal
traveller. But now there comes before us evi-
dence of a conspiracy to damage Dr. Tucker. In
the Argus of the 6th instant, our own James
Smith lifts his boot to him. Mr. Smith, we all
know, was in Gheel. He, too, saw those lunatics.
He sat with them and conversed with them, and
contributes his testimony to prove to the people
Of New South Wales “how emphatically the
doctor’s allegations have been contradicted.” This
is an unkind cut. Why not have told Dr. Tucker
before he left that the usual allowance was bung
up ? Why leave him under the impression that he
could draw like others, when aotuaily we had
closed the bank ? But wait. Look out for Tucker’s
revenge! And it will have a retrospective bear-
ing. Mind that, Mr. Smith.
“Until I moved down here,” said J. D.
Young, “I never knew I was so popular with the
press. My back aches with continually bending
down and listening to rum-charged whispers. You
see that man there, who is taking an early tea of
cloves and coffee-beans—not the one with the two
odd socks and the pack-thread shoe-lace-but the
tall one in the tea-leaf ulster, with the cat’s-skin
collar. Well, he’s a poet, he is. Things are a bit
slack with him now, so he said he would jerk me
off a bit this morning. He ate five slices of spiced
beef, 16 radishes, a bundle of shalots, and drank a
gallon of beer before he started. Then, calling for
paper and ink, he dashed it off. Here,” said J. D.,
putting his hand in his pocket, is the dooument-
No, stayl That’s an order on a Bum man’s salary
lor9d. Ah, here—let’s look again—No; ‘that well-
known and popular Boniface,’ urn, um, um-a
little par.—a bottle of square gin that cost me l—
ah, here we are!” Then he proceeded to read with
exquisite effect the following verses:—
“To J. D. Young, Esq.
“If you’d lived long ago, Mister Young,
By other bards thy praises had been sung,
And voices Bweet would have chanted how well
You (and Mrs. Young) know how to keep an hotel!
But I must wing your praises on the breeze,
Sing your pickled onions, immortalize your cheese.
I trust, since you really are such a good sort.
You’ll have, as the poet says, a fair share of sup-
port,
And this being said, why, your hard must be
dumb.
I’ve had two already—well, thanks, mine is rum.”
“Yes, sir; there he is,” continued the alderman,
and there he’ll stop. There is only one way of
getting rid of him; that is to bribe my pot-boy to
ask him out to dinner. But the youngster don’t
like the billet; for, he told me the last time he
enacted Amphytrion, the poet wanted to take
away the cold potatoes and plum-duff in his hat.
On, yes; lam popular with the literati. Indeed, I
am thinking of having a room especially titted up
tor them. That, you see, would give the general
public something of a show to get near the lunch
counter. I’d have a notice put up, too. Some-
thing like this: ‘Avis.—The price of pewter having
risen in the market, reporters are requested to
bring their own forks and spoons.’ Also: ‘No
gentleman who cannot stand up with comfort to
himself and without embarrassing the company,
will be admitted to any apartment in this estab-
lishment other than the coai-hole. N.B.—ln cases
ot emergency, pants will be seated on application.’
How would that do ? But I must go now. Here
comes two spotting prophets and the tram-accident
“mu. I can’t afford to invest any more in litera-
ture tc-day; but, you see, lam popular.”
The Rev. Y/. Henderson, who died the
other day in Ballarat at the age of 58, was one of
tne ablest men of the Presbyterian Church, and
obtained his widespread influence by sternly and
Persistently ignoring the sourer doctrines of his
sect. Of course he was pursued with relentless
jury by the narrow-minded brethren, but he out-
lived their venom, and was justly looked up to as a
conscientious thinker and preacher. He was a
constant student of Carlyle, and in his addresses
wrupjed not to substitute the phraseology of that
oia philosopher for the antiquated snuffles and
nasology of the old Puritans. He was captain of
volunteers, much to the scandal of the old folk;
ana it was certainly a contrast to hear his word of
command to the men at one end of a square, and
immediately after to listen to the roar of Major
smith at the other end, when that warrior threw
■us eye down the line and wanted to know what in
the name o’ L Private M'Guifin meant by turning
ms toes min that way. Besides being a first-class
Greek, and Hebrew scholar, he was familiar
~, t 'U fhe languages of nearly all Europe. He fre-
quently preached to the Lutherans in German,
xne Jast time we saw him was under rather peeu-
t»I c ! rcumBtances - We bad unissed a coach about
“iics from Ballarat, and one of Hender-
Bon s elders - an elder of twenty-live years' stand-
hn.r v 9 lunteered a seat in bis buggy. About an
“our atter starting, we called at a public-house to
match, intending to return it some day,
“ua, whilst dividing the match between three or
di-i r i£ entlemeQ present who, we grieve to say, were
tinn conversation turned on the ques-
V,™ 01 a luture state,with especial reference to hell.
thin^ was by tbis time Pretty full of theology and
finish after borrowing a few more matches,
von ,i • th e debate by saying, “ I hae no belief in
derJr 10 ' Ctt> bell. Neither has Wully Hen-
Th lf 1 waB t 0 die to-night I’d maintain it.
ioino^ 8 v. no Buc b thing.” At that stage we were
mot;? by a brewer’s traveller, also in want of a
Wr-nT’ -2 ,nd tbe landlord gently hinted to tho
e v i»:, r that » a 8 matches would be borrowed at
and J a t P K b A on the road> wo hrld better go around
an We vvent. They drove over
hnr»?«rP a s? tment somewhere, and Mae was brought
tw?!/, 0 dle> Calling on the Rev. Wully, a day or
lri*Trsi i* to give bim some information of his old
DQ s last hours, we mentioned the incident.
We should remark that he had an immense library
and a huge collection of pipes of all nations, which
he gloried to see in the mouths of his friends.
And don’t you believe in a hell, then ?” we
asked. A smile came over his grizzled counten-
ance as he imagined his opinion leaking out from
our innocent lips and being taken up by one of the
old keel-hauling synods whom he had vanquished
in many a fray. We shall never forget his reply,
for precision, and thoroughly Scriptural elucida-
tion of the nature and locality of hell, we doubt if
it can be paralleled in modern theology. We say he
smiled, and then he said: “ Well, you see, in—er—
questions of thisssorer—bless my soul, why,
your pipe’s gone out, man. Have a match ?”
Rum and True Religion coupled as usual.
The goody-goody papers in Sydney, which have
done_ their little sly best to hoodwink the public
relative to the aspect in which plain people in
England do regard, and decent people in Australia
should regard, the movement to reinstate Valen-
tine Baker, have found an appropriate ally in an
organ of the Rum interest and the sentiments of
the Stews. With the view of showing how the
people’s papers in England deal with the matter,
we will give a few extracts additional to those we
have already in previous issues placed before our
readers. One correspondent writes to a London
weekly thus:—“ If certain Royal and aristocratic
personages desire the restoration of a boon com-
panion, let it be done as a concession to them; but
I protest against the most infamous of jobs being
done in the people's name and as their wish. If it
is decided to reinstate this gentlemanly ruffian, or
even to confer honours upon him for his ‘misfor-
tunes ’ in the Soudan, let it be done in ‘ the sacred
name of friendship ’ of the ruling classes for one of
their strayed lambs; but it is too audacious to
style this modern hero of chivalry as a darling of
the English people, as his reception in the public
streets by Englishmen would soon prove to him
and to his friends.—l am, sir, &c., W. H.” Another
supplies the following passage:—“ From a bur-
lesque opera of ‘ Faust ’ iin which the character of
Valentine is supposed to be taken by V. Baker),
written by a friend of mine, who had the misfor-
tune to be connected with the 10th Hussars nearly
twenty years ago, and who seems to have known
him thoroughly, may not be uninteresting. The
scene is ‘A Village Fair,’ and Valentine is sup-
posed to be approaching.—
“ Air, ‘ Lutzow.’
“ Ist Villager: What glances so bright in the broad
daylight,
Now nearer and nearer advancing ?
“2nd Villager: ’Tis Valentine’s helmet, stuck top of
his head,
He looks very seedy, he's just out o’
bed.
“3rd Villager: He’s been dancing!
“ Chorus: Dancing all night till the broad day-
. light,
And home with the girls in the morn;
Dancing all night till he’s tired out
quite,
.., . And looks q uite pale and forlorn.
Ist Villager: But where is his regiment, I'd like
for to know,
.. .. , S as met with any disaster ?
2nd V i llager: No, he’s left it behind to take care
of itself,
He’s left it behind to take care of
itself.
“3rd Villager: In charge of his Quartermaster!
“ Chorus: Oh! Mr. Valentine,
That’s queer soldiering to me,
Lying abed the whole of the day,
At night you’re out on the spree.”
And a third sends some verses which were pub-
lished at the time when Baker got his sentence,
and which were supposed to express his own senti-
ments:—
“ To send me to gaol was a deuce of a shame,
While those who are low
Were loud in their woe
That I did not get more than a shocking bad
name.
And twelve months’ seclusion from riot and
revelry,
Wine, wit, women, and general devilry!
Also deprived of my rank as a Colonel!
The last was a punishment most infernal!
At the twelve months in prison I did not much
blench,
’Twas really not worse than the old Queen's
Bench.
And 1 had plenty of liquor, and novels in French;
I saw all my friends from morning till night,
And the daj s sped on with swallow-like flight.”
* » .
The Parramatta gay deceiver, has boen
released from “ quod.” Now, the sight of a
petticoat in the street will drive him into—the
public house. Oh, and he desires it to be generally
known that he is weary of the query—“ Whoosh!
Why don’t yer marry the gal ? ” David Blair put
his library up to auction recently. Rare old
books, scarce old histories, grand old theologies,
rich oid biographies, all fell to the auctioneer s
hammer. Now we’ll make time to read David’s
next article. We always wanted to know whether
David could think, but hitherto we hadn’t a
chance Sir Henry Loch has cause to be proud
ot the way in which he has been received in this
hemisphere. No prettier compliment than the
little earthquake at Hobart could possibly have
been devised, and it was a fitting return for the
subterranean disturbances throughout England
that heralded the arrival there of our own Henni-
ker Heaton. ..An Adelaide paper just tells us that
Miss Helen Vivian’s leading man, Mr. Fred Mere-
dith is “one of the most rising actors from the
United States.” Then, we suppose Woollahra
must be a rising city somewhere in the state of
Illinois. lor Fred was born and bred in Woollahra;
and he cannot lie... “ J udge Bundey ’’—says an Ade-
laide telegram—“took his seat on the Bench for
the first time yesterday. His geniality of manner
made him very popular on all sides.” On all sides
—think of that! What beautiful Christian charity
must have animated the hearts of the ladies and
gentlemen who had occasion to stand in the dr 0k...
Graham Berry put his hands to his neck in a very
uneasy sort of way, the other morning, when Mr.
Carter, of the Anti-Local Option deputation, got
V Petitions ” and their worthlessness.
Why, said Mr. C., “I could get a petition signed
by a majority cf the people of Victoria in favour
of your being retained in perpetuity as Chief
secretary; and I could get a petition signed next
day to have you hanged outside this building.”
Graham smiled leebly at the pleasantry, but the
dark thought that there might possibly be a third
class of people who would like him to be “retained
in perpetuity ” after he was hanged, evidently
crossed his mind ...Joseph was spelling over an
old Australasian, the other day, and, after he
he had read about W. H. Leake, at the Opera
House, doing bad business, he said he didn’t won-
der. Who was a-goin’ to brave the pitiful tempest
only to see Three Muskeeters !” A few nights
before the V.R.C. Winter meeting came off, one of
the chosen race, whose education during his youth-
ful days had been deferred, and who, of course,
wished to keep the matter dark, received a tele-
gram in the Adelaide betting-room, and, guessing
it referred to the coming flutters, he pretended to
read it over with considerable interest, and then,
handing it to a Yidisher present carelessly observed,
I thay, Jo, that’s a pretty straight tip for the
uran National, ithn tit?’’ And perpaps he didn’t
feel a trifle crumpled up when his friend read:
Come home at once. Your wife dropped dead
last night. ....Mr. Crane is too sick to go out.
We hope it wont be long before we get another
pood stalk out of this Crane.... Miles, the Queens-
land Minister of Works, was recently on the stump
—the result of a buggy accident. The stump was
shattered, while Miles’s phrenological development
suffered material modification Arthur Wills,
Q.C., the new Justice Queen’s Bench Division,
vice Williams.... Fred. Berry, an old St. Peter’s
College (Adelaide) boy, during the Zulu War a
captain of Frontier Light Horse under Redvers
Buller, snapped up by African Aliigator.
It is said that Charles Reade was an un-
successful journalist. Well, we can’t all be Alfred
Bennetts! ...“Sir Roger’s” wife is an inmate
of South Stoneham Workhouse, near Southamp-
ton. The children are, however, well oared for by
sympathisers. ...Bass, the brewer, left £1,800,000.
He was a great philanthropist, too, and only aocu-
mulated that trifle because he had first relieved
all the want and misery in existence,
Luscombe used to be an architect in Cook-
town. The monuments he has left there are dally
festooned with curses by the inhabitants.
“ How well he carries his toga,” said a
friend to Joe, when they went to see Creswick in
Coriolanus.” “ Does he,”said Joseph; “I’ll watch
next time he draws it.”
An American naturalist wants to know
what our Australian naturalists have to contribute
lroui their observations of the earth-worm. Why
not have applied to John Davies direct?
When you put an ad. in the Herald on
Sunday night, says the Bourke Watchman, they
charge you 30 per cent extra. Quite right; 25 per
cent, for them, and 25 for the Loard.
The Newcastle Herald says that “ Mr.
J. P. Abbott is discharging Mr. Cohen’s duties for
the present.” Well, this . . . [the remainder of
this par. got pie’d somehow.— Ed. B.]
Joe doesn’t see why France should be so
feared on account of the epidemic now existing in
Marseilles. “Look at home,” cries Joseph; “G.
K. Dibbs was always noted for being oholeric! ”
The vicar, on examining the school ehild-
ren, among other questions, asked “ Wno loves all
m °n i ' A little girl, anxious to be iirst with her
reply, burst out very naturally with “All women,
sir.” ’
In the Redfern Bancroft, one “Titus
Jones” begins an articlo- 4 ’ But, thought I, where
lies the difference?” If Titus don’t do better than
that soon, we shall stop taking our mullins from
mm.
Alfred says that the kid who made a meal
off matches died from “ phospheric poisoning.”
By the same token, we suppose when that gifted
journalist has a cold id his dose he takes *• pare-
geric.”
It is reported that when the Queen gave
Princess Vic. of Hesse the £5OOO dot, sne turned to
the Lord Chamberlain and bade him enquire at
which workhouse they gave you the thickest
Skilly.
“Hi! wake up!” cried one Rom man to
another. “Don’t disturb me,” was the reply; “I
was dreaming someone had brought out a farthing
newspaper with a saveloy supplement, and that it
was one of our exchanges.”
There is a mad wag in charge of one of the
Southern papers. A man down there came home
in a festive mood the other night and knocked his
wife into the lire. The editor heads his account of
the occurrence “ A Domestic Broil.”
He was at his last gasp. “ It’s disagreeable
to die,” he murmured; “I shall mi6s ” “Me,
darling?” said his loving wife, bending fondly
oyer him. “No,” groaned the invalid; “1 shall
miss reading the Kiama Indeuencent.”
There is an epidemic among cats in Quean-
beyan. Do you know what this is a sign of ? “ No ?”
Weil, it is a sign that the town is going to be in-
corporated soon, and that the inhabitants are
getting ready for the municipal elections.
It’s nice to be a king. Here it is reported
that the Queen has given orders that Tawhiao’s
grog shall be stopped for a week prior to his
audience with her, and that the heads of himself
and chiefs shall bo shaved immediately.
After her lecture at Maitland the other
night, Dr. Anna Potts was presented with a
bouquet. In compliment to the fair lecturer,
pansies were the Powers chosen, Sly dogs, those
Maitland boys. D’ye see ? Potts and Pans-its.
The gorgeous ass who signs “Three Star”
in the Melbourne Licensed w itlehs, has invented
a new word. He spoaks ot an hotel as being " pre -
prietored.” Our Imagination in regard to “Three
Star,” however, breaks off snort at gorgeous ass.
“I rise to o, pint ” began an hon. mem-
ber. “You'd bow to a quart,” interjected
another hon. member; whr.reuuou the iirst hon.
member, after looking about undecided which hon.
member to poke in the eye with his umbrella, sat
down in confusion.
The Riverina Star states that the (Junee)
Southern Cross is about to be edited by a highly
accomplished and popular journalist. W e wonder,
tncD, who is going to edit the Kiverina Star ?
Hem! Foggy, to-day, n’est cc pa*t— which we
consider to be the language.
You’ve heard this about Alfred, of coarse.
No ? Thunder 1 The world wants gt easing; it don’t
go round fast enough. Well, Al f. went to a dinner
party the other day. “ Will you try a little purie
d’eertvisses, sir,” said the butler. “No, thank you,”
faltered Alfred; “soup for me.”
This is the conclusion of a life. Dumas,
fils, says of the world: “ One day you will take it
in your hand, as a child takes a ball, and, after
having weighed it lightly, then you will cast it
from you, saying, ‘Keaily, it is too small; there
must be something larger than that!’ ” Of course
there is. Hell.
“M.” advertises thus in the Herald; —
“ Ohl love, dear love, be true; am ill. Dum spiro
spero. Amprenez (sic) vous ?” Sick, poor girl, are
you? Weil, dear, whatever you’ve g,ot, your
French has caught’em. “ Arnpreuez vous ” ? We
advise you to content yourself, missy, with “spik-
ing ongleesh ” for the future.
When the “ Hallelujah Sailor,” from Wool-
loomooloo, told the “ Balmain Braves ” that he
was glad he’s saved, a gruff voice amongst the
audience cried, "if you’ve saved enough to pay
me the ‘ ’arf bull ’ you owes me, hand over.” Then
the ruffian in charge of the drum began leather-
ing away, and the “ Hallelujah Sailor’s ” reply was
rendered inaudible.
The Parramatta police seemed to bo con-
tinually "bitted” by the larrikins, and they are
pensive in consequence. At a meeting in the iock-
up-the only place thoy’re safe in-an elderly con-
stable said sadly: " Well, brothers, we’ve all got
our little terraces of houses, our insignificant
farms, our trilling assortment of jewellery, our
few fat cattle—ana yet there is still a cloud on the
horizon. It’s about time, now, to take a trip
home.”
Down at Bega, last week, a lecture was
delivered on "Odds and Ends of Savage Life.”
This reminds us of the time when we were in Fiji
in the good old cannibal days. Then the odds and
ends of savage life were generally to be found in
an ejirth-oven. “Where is the great chief, Mba wa ?”
we said to the head of a tribe on one occasion.
“ There,” he replied, pointing to the oven. Then
he wiped away a tear, and taking up a sharp stick,
turned over Mbawa to see if be was sufficiently
done.
One of Alfred’s critios gravely comments
unon a poem written in the “ Spencerian stanza.”
We have not heard of this stanza before. Perhaps
it has been lately invented by Herbert Spencer.
But we have heard of Edmund Spenser, which, to
all appearances, Alfred’s critic has not. This is a
proof that a young man is not necessarily a judge
of poetry because he is a success at chronicling
collisions and reporting fires.
A lunatic escaped from the asylum at
Parramatta one day last week. He started straight
down the street and was tearing along ia the best
Malone style when he was captured by the care-
taker. On being searched, it was discovered that
he had a column of mauuscript headed “ The
Humourist,” and addressed to the Shroud, in his
possession. This is how, one by one, our cherished
illusions are dispelled. Now, we know the writer
of that chaotic column is permanently queer.
Once we used to think he was only temporarily
drun k.
He sneaked up into the editorial room
where all the ormolu and marqueterie is, and,
dragging us into the embrasure of a plate-glass
window, said: “ [ used to goto a theatrical barber.
Do you know why I gave him up?” "No,” was
our palpitating reply. “Because,” was the re-
joiader, “ever since he assisted at the perform-
ance of ‘Macbeth’ he saws the hair too much.”
[Will nis friends kindly claim him? He had no
property on him, and is dressed in a dark tweed
suit, soft hat, decayed ankle-jacks, and a dog’s-
wool and oakum shirt. Tickets to view the body
can. be obtained on application at the counter.—
i EC-
One of the deputation to Aliek-the-’and-
somo, re the abolition of Freethought lectures on
Sunday, said: “As an instance of the alleged
demoralising effect of these entertainments at the
theatre Koyal, it was stated that a Sunday school
waSt onft > Riwww ain ' i P Bte " d of ffoing to church,
bis oiSSfnni day eveDl °F to hear Dr. Hughes, anti
that he sn«nf V 7v,° eo . changed by what he heard
gofnghnli, he t u n ' f ' ht .' n a brothel instead of
fi.i Nothing, though, about the sauce-
wav' u» over Jh‘ ,S L lun , K H, 7 r him as he shinned his
was mittinh hb K Ck *7® when be thought she
was putting the baby to bed.
has nearly all the talk at
too- w JwP 01100 ■' J bore's another Smith in it,
too, out the name 13 not uncommon.
" 1 PP e Smith see the other Smith
A taking of the floor.
1 The nlh tl } a i the tlrBt Smith thinks
the other Smith a bore.
oncfifmnre I tho a PJ lia?fi- v. Now we have d ™e, and
once rncie the iyro is hung up over the ham-bone.
sef^rPV Ca^1 7. uniuffled imbecility we have
Drfnt/d Tn t 0 beat the following. It is
nort that 1 ™ ivin orU>a P a P er - a ' d concerns the re-
Biue Ribbon. lt?ad 8 f- 8 “ Bydney bad taken the
Nineteen thousand men like you.
In Sydney’s famous town,
.Don the wearing ot the ‘ blue,’
And lorm an Army strong.
Nable Booth's their captain true,
A good man and a bold.
Wui he take Moruya too,
And capture its strong hold ?
Ho 1 the wearing o’ the blue,
Iho simple badge o’ blue.”
iiV^, 8 P7 rd i d nndreity that could rbvme “strong ”
who wii| W iPt if a , rks nut the possessor as a person
an?° T 1 yet make a fortune robbing poor-hoves
Tbe abrupt idiocy of the two concluS lines fg
the chlet charm of this little lyric, however. We
would pay more to sse writer of them than to
nnif D fh ) o a M7 : ' BbGW a ! w bore is the two-headed
Woru ya editor used to write about; or
tbi®. a uietapborised way of saying that
Whichever’ belVe have’ooVno'dniibt
roAToZ. j&sr ,rom - GrM
In these days, when local clerics are playing the
eCCle B laBticiBm by seeking to ban Sun-
day entertainment as an accursed thins simply
ulrvuMH 8 and so not contribm
tory to that glooin which is of the very essence of
true religion as conceived of by them, the follow-
ing woros of Buckle Should be read by fathers to
their children as a most suitable tract lor the times
counteractive of the dismal preachments of Phari-
saic babbatananism“ The theologians have iu
deliberately opposed themselves to
gratifications which are essential to the happiness
of an overwhelming majority of the human race.
KaisiDg up a Goa of tdeir own creation, whom
they hold out as a lover of penance, of sacrifice
and of mortification, they, under this pretence,’
forbid erjoyments which are not only innocent
but praiseworthy, lor every enjoyment by which
no one is injured is innocent; and every innocent
enjoyment is praiseworthy, because it assists in
diffusing that spirit of content and of satisfaction
which is iavourable to the practice of benevolence
towards others. The theologians cultivate an
opposite spirit, and, wherever they have possessed
the power, have always prohibited a large number
ot favourable actions on the ground that such
actions are offensive to the Diety. . . . Their
whole system reposes upon fear, and upon fear of
the worst kind, since, according to them, the
Great Author of our being has used His omnipo-
tence in so cruel a manner as to endow His crea-
tures with tastes, instincts, and desires, which He
not only lorbids them to gratify, but which, if
they do gratify, shall bring on themselves eternal
torment. What the theologians are to the closet,
that are the priests to the pulpit. . . . Nothing
but the pressure of public opinion prevents the
theologic spirit from breaking out into extrava-
gance. Many of the clergy persist in attacking
the pleasures of the world, forgetting that not
only the world, but all which the world contains is
the work of the Almighty, and that the inutincts
and desires which they stigmatise as unholy are
part of His gifts to man. They have yet to learn
that our appetites, beiDg as much a portion of our-
selves as any other quality we possess, ouglitto be in-
dulged, otherwise the whole individual is not deve-
loped. The proper limit to self-indulgence is that
man shall neither hurt himself nor hurt others
Short of this, everything is lawful. It is more than
lawlul; it is necessary. If we imitate the creduiltv
of our forefathers, who allowed their energies to
be cramped und weakened by those pernicious
notions, which the clergy, partly from ignorance
and partly lrom interest, have palmed on the
people, thereby diminishing national happiness
and retarding the march or national prosperity,
we shall assuredly sink under the accumulated
pressure of our age. . . . Protestants generally
are apt to suppose that there is something in their
creed which protects them against those hurtful
extravagances which have been practised on the
Catholic Church. Never was a greater mistake
There is but one protection against the tyranny of
any class, and that is to give that class very little
power.” To give it none is the safer line.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Kidney complaint, one of the most com-
mon and yet most neglected diseases of this
country, can be readily cured by the use of Hop
Bitters. See.
Wells’ “Rough on Corns.”—Ask for Wells*
“ Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
Eat and Live.— Marshall’s Tonio Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Wholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros , Prosser, Hotfnung, Feldheim, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 106
Market-street, Sydney.
A regular swell, was he, from the crown
of bis elegant masher to the toes of his varnished
boots, and, like Richard Ilf. in the play, he used
to “ entertain a score or two of tailors,” and, like
Hotspur’? dandy “faith, he was perfumed like a
milliner.” But, he found it didn't pay. He was
‘‘something” in the Land’s Office, and, like Sam
Weller had “little to do, and plenty to get;” but,
it is not everyone who pay their tailor’s bills, and
the old adage occurred to him about “robbing
Peter to pay Paul,” and our young friend found
himself in the Peter division. He began to think
about all this, and the next time he wanted rigging
out he just went down to Anthony Hordern aDd
Son’s Palace Emporium, Haymarket, put his
money down on the counter, and came away with
the toggery under his arm, and, if you will be-
lieve it, when next ho appeared on the “ block ” bo
was every inch as much a swell as if he spent half
his time at “ Poole's, ’ and paid ten per cent, on his
overdue ueeount.*
The Test of Actual Trial. This is-
what proves the merit of a preparation. The pro-
prietor of Green’s August Flower, knowing its
valuable properties, meets this test boldly by pre-
paring sample bottles of this remedy, which are
sold at 6J. This enables doubters to try its virtues
at a trilling expense. August Flower is a panacea
for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the Liver, in-
cluding Biliousness, Indigestion, Sick Headache,
Costiveness, &0., &c. Throe doses will relieve any
of the above, and a faithful use will certainly cure.
No medicine in the world has ever given such
proof of its merits. Druggists recommend it with
perfect confidence and physicians prescribe it
regularly. Price for full-Sized bottles Us. 6d. Bold
by all druggists,


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS' FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
• Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
Sydney.
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.”
NOW ON TOUR.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE, July 13th,
in his great production of the
“CREOLE.”
New Zealand Tour Postponed pro tem.
All communications en route.
171 BLACKBURN, Wrestler, a letter for you
at this office-
WANTED an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
Engraving Business. Premium required.
Apply at Ofigjce, “
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musa rove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
MISS GBNEVIEVE WARD
and
MR. W. H. VERNON
and the Last Two Nights of the grand revival,
MACBETH
MACBETH
PRICES AS USUAL.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
NO FREE LIST.
Business Manager for Miss Ward, G. AGRATI.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 2nd,
will be inaugurated the
ANNUAL COMIC OPERA SEASON.
EW OPERA HOUSE.
Sole Lessee and Manager, Signor E. Majeroni.
FAREWELL SEASON
of Miss
JENNIE LEE JENNIE LEE
and
Mr. J. P. BURNETT.
To-night, Thursday, and To-morrow Night, Friday,
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
SAM. SAM. SAM.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 2nd,
Robertson's celebrated comedy, in ii acts,
CASTE. CASTE.
Miss JENNIE LEE’S flrst appearance as
POLLY ECCLES.
The Furniture from Alexander Moore and Co.’s
Private Boxes, £2 2a.; Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 3s.
Parquette, 2s. children in arms not admitted.
Day tickets at Roberts’, adjoining the Theatre.
Box plan at Huenerbein’s, ill George street.
LIDD T—Business Manager for Miss Jennie Lee.
Gaiety treatke.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
LESSEE AND MANAGER :
MR. WVBERT REKVE.
Positively Last Night hut One of the Greatest oi
all Irish Comedians,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
THE WIDOW O’BRIEN AND THE TRAMP,
in the most successful oddity,
“ FUN ON THE BRISTOL.”
Box plan at Nicholson’s. Day tickets at Loder's
Hotel (opposite Theatre). Representative of John
F. Sheridan. W. Hughes. Business Manager for
Mr. Wybert Reeve, G. A. Coleman.
aAIETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
LESSEE AND MANAGER:
MR. WVBERT REEVE.
ATTR ACTION EXTRAORDINARY.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 3nd,
First Appearance of
MR. HARRY STANLEY’S
most celebrated and talented
JUVENILE OPERA COMPANY,
who will appear in Offenbach’s favourite Comic
Opera,
THE GRAND DUCHESS <">F GEROLSTEIN.
Powerful cast. Full Band. Chorus. New Scenery
and Dresses,
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
17th WEEK. 17th WEEK.
Unabated Success.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS.
Glorious Reception of the Great American Come-
dian, Mr. FRANK HUSSEY.
Saturday Eveniog, an entire change of programme.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Paling’s, where
Pianos for this entertainment are supp Ted.
New masonic hall,
Castlereagh-st., corner of Goulburn-st.
TO-NIGHT, TO-NIGHT. TO-NIGHT.
AND EVERY EVENING DURING THE WEEK.
The Great BALDWINS.
Spirit I Thought
Exposers. I Readers.
Triumphant Success.
The Greatest Hit ever made.
Clairvoyants, Thought-readers, and Psychome-
traste, who created such a sensation in Austra-
lia in 1878, with a new Entertainment
Professor BALDWIN’S entire performance is
New, Original and Startling, including Baldwin’s
London Sensat ion,
FINDING A SMALL PIN
hidden anywhere by the committee;
also, Reading the Numbers on a Bank Note.
Telling Names of Dead Relatives, Locating a Pa'n
in any part of the Body merely thought of bv the
c immittee, Reading any Page or Line in a Closed
Book, Telling the Time by any Watch.
Doors open at 7 15, commence at 8. Admission, Is.,
35., ~3-, Is. Box Plan at Messrs. Elvy's. George-st.
WEDNESDAY EVENING NEXT,
Benefit to
Bro. S. S. BALDWIN.
Under the immediate
Patronage and in Presence of
Grand Worsbipful Master,
Dr. TARRANT, M.L A ,
THE GRAND MASTERS and OFFICERS
of the Cl I Y LODGES,
and for this special occasion a
GRAND SPECIALPROGRAMM E will be provided
George Lingard, Manager and Proprietor.
Agricultural society - of new south
WALES.
METROPOLITAN EXHIBITION.
1884. AUGUST. 1884.
To be held at
THE SOCIETY’S GROUNDS, MOORE PARK.
SHOWS OPENS ON 14th AUGUST.
SPECIAL PRIZES.
Four-in-Hanis, Jumping, Trotting, Single and
Pair Horses, Hackneys, Poties, &c , &c.
Prize schedules can be obtained at the Society’s
Office, No, 7, Tattersall’s buildings, Hunter-street.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
U N D A Y AFTERNOON.
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 2, 2-30, 2.40, 3, 3.30,
3,40, 4.
The entertainment will commence at 3 30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
fojte trotr*. the establishment of Nicholsen and Co.
Tickets Qttftiflable at Botany
jpiRATERNITY OF MUTUAL IMPS.
SYDNEY LODGE, No. 6.
OPENING CELEBRATION
and
INSTALLATION BANQUET,
will be held at COMPAGN' »NTS. 160 Pitt-street,
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, July 31st.
To commence at 11 p.m. sharp.
Tickets, 7s. od. each ; to be had at Compagnoni's.
Members of Committee, and at Gaiety Theatre
from G. A. COLEMAN, Hon. Sec.
ANCI N G *
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh street, near Bathurst-street,. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
THE SYDNEY BICYCLE CLUB .
Intercolonial Amateur Champion
RACE MEETING,
to be held at the
NEW SOUTH WALES CRICKET ASSOCIATION
GRONND, MOORE PARK, SYDNEY, N.S.W.,
On Saturday, 2nd August,
under the patronage and in the presence of his
Excellency, LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUS.
Special Notice.-Prizes on view at Paling’s.
Entries have been received from the prin-
cipal Victorian racing men, which make these
races the
FIRST INTERCOLONIAL MEETING
ever held in Australia.
Purchase tickets at Paling's, 356 George-street,
to save crushing at the gates.
Trams will run to and from the grounds.
NAVAL BRIGADE BAND.
Admission to Ground, Is ; Stand, Is. extra.
E. H. M‘RAE, I Joint
C. E. GEORGE, (Hon. Secs.
Mr W. SHEARSBY,
For the last five years HEAD CUTTER at
viessrs. Farmer and Co., and formerly of George-
street, in this city, begs to intimate that he int< nds
;o RESUME BUSiNKSS on his OWN ACCOUNT.
Any orders with which any of his numerous
Friends in the colony may favour him will have hi«
3areful attention.
Please address, until suitable premises can be ob-
tained,
W. SHEARSBY.
Tailor, Habit, and Robe Maker,
38d George-street, Sydney.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “MALABAR” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 'Z OF THE SERIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THE “Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thanks to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their well-acknowledged
strict attention, coupled wl h thorough integrity,
to make the “ Malabar” Consnßations by far the
most popular of any in the colonies.
£2OOO
At the request of a large number of our sub-
scribers we have arranged to make our Shares but
ss. each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
them Four Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand Pounds.
We shall send also a siDgle ticket to any address
on receipt of 55.. which will entitle the owner fo
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus tree on
application. Enclose envelope, plainly addressed;
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Tickets sent by return post. Address, by letter
° DIy ’ G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
Department of Public Inetructior,
Sydney, 25th July, 1884.
TENDERS FOR WOODEN BUILDING.
TENDERS are invited for the Erection of
a Wooden Building, for Public School pur-
poses, at Dulwich, near Marrickville.
Plans a r d Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the oflice of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Wooden Build-
ing, Dulwich Public School,” must be lodged with
the Acting Under-Secretary. Deoartment of Pub-
lic Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on
Monday, the 18th August, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINB of FABT INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRA BOOL GABO LE UR A
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 29th July, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
Is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of thn Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 23rd July, 1884.
TENDERS FOR REPAIRS.
fIIENDERS are invited for Repairs to the Public
I School Buildingf, at Canterbury.
Speciticaf ions may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of Public
Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Repairs, Canter-
bury Public School, ’ must be lodged with the
Acting Under Secretary. Department of Public
Instruction, at or before 10 o'ciock a m., on Wed-
nesday, 13th August. 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
w. J. TRICKETT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 24th July, 1884.
FRESH TENDERS FOR NEW BUILDINGS.
FRESH TENDERS are invited for the Erection
of new Public School buildings, at Comleroy-
road, near Kurrajong.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney, and at Cora-
leroy-road Public School, on application to the
Teacher.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for New BuildiDgs,
Comleroy-road Public School,” must be lodged
with the Acting Under Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m., on
Monday, the IBth August, 1884.
The Minister dots not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICK KTT.
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies imported, these a»-e the Oldtst, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUBTRAIIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bonl under supervision of lI.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKEK, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow,
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-streef, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide;
“ The Duchess of Albany has given birth
to a son.”— Cable.
This cable has exceeded
All our wildest dreams;
We really thought, now, we did
But, after all, it seems . . .
[Very poor verse.— Ed. B.]
Another Methusaleh died up country a
few days ago. He was within a few days of being
104 years of age, and was-the local papers say—a
hearty lover of tobacco, It is generally considered
by his relations that smoking shortened his life.
This should be a terrible warning to young men
whose souls are under the sway of the cigarette
fiend.
“Genius,” says Herbert Spencer, “is the
power of making efforts.” Presuming that Her-
bert's theory is correct, the greatest genius this
side of the equator must be the King-street soribe
who was discovered, shortly after a recent dinner,
lying on his back in the yard, and making extra-
ordinary “efforts” to raise himself by kicking
holes in the air and feeling upwards for the pave-
ment.
They are almost as polite, those Queens-
land politicians, as our own legislators. A few
days ago one of them remarked that, if he could
not do something or other better than some mem-
bers, he would “put his head in a potato-bag.”
This intimation was received with instantaneous
and general applause. The inference that his head
was a potato also met with unanimous approval.
It is not often a politician is so candid.
Wo had got half through a long article,
projected to show how China’s refusal to pay
France ten millions might lead to international
complications affecting the peace of Europe, and,
by implication, Australia. Not liking, however, to
speak dogmatically on the matter without looking
up outside support, we turned to a file of the
Maitland Mail, to see whatstand they are taking
up that way. We were gratified at the first par.
Says he: “A horse attached to a small cart took
fright in Elgin-street on Wednesday afternoon
last.”
The very newest of new chums knocking
round at the present date is a verdant London
t Arry who found his way to a shearing station down
South last season, and asked the manager if he
could give him a billet washing sheep. The boss
told him he could not, as he had instructions to
shear the sheep “ in the grease,” upon which 'Arry
sapiently observed: “ Ho! well as I’m 'ard hup jest
now, p’raps you could gim me th’ job o’ greasin'
them.” ’Arry is now looking for the man who
wants a drover to take a steam ram overland from
Balmain to Pyrmont.
“ Mr. Quong Tart has adopted the sugges-
tion that non-opium smokers wear a light red
ribbon.” Humph! And the teetotallers wear a
blue ribbon. It is time for people of right feeling,
who like their liquor and their smoke, to wear
some distinguishing badge, too. Hov would a
medal, to be worn in the hat—in the manner of the
gay Italian brigand—with a neat design of two
cross pipes, surmounted by a pewter, engraved on
it, do? We feel this to be a feeble suggestion
couched in feeble phrase. Perhaps wo had better
load up before we write any more.
We tremblingly submit another sample of
the Figaro verse, which, it appears, is popular in
Brisbane :
“ A paradox! How can a kan-
-garco that’s * turned tail ’ ‘ go ahead ?'—
No more a paradox, my man.
Than this Gymnasium’s furnished.”
What we say’s this:—
How can the town let this bard live ?
Is idiotcy beyond control ?
Is there no Brisbane citizen
Who boasts of a substantial sole ?
Mr. Harry Houghton, lately editor of the
St. George Standard, died the other day, and, of
course, Bobby Byrne chartered the first poetically-
gifted alligator he could snavel to give the “ pore
man ” a send-off. Here is a little of the effort of
the Cayman :
Another gap in the Fourth Estate; [! I!]
Another pressman dead of * drought ’ (sic);
Another quill split out of date:
Another inkpot emptied out.” [!!!]
We get tons of this kind of thing sent to us, and
can dispose of it to Bohby in large or small parcels.
Heigho! But turn the organ, Granny:—
You alligator! when you die.
Just won’t we have our little laugh!
A cayman who's not in your set
Shall perpetrate your epitaph.
This is a little “ wholesome fua ” which a
Bega editor gives the local girls gratis, with a
paternal pat on their fringe-covered noddles. At
a dancj two girls were discussing a third, and
summed her up thus; “ She’s a very nice girl, be
too quiet; can’t look men in the face; and the,/
she goes out to work. Oh, we can’t invite her.”
Just so, the chief end of a girl is to “ look men in
the face,” is it? What a girl wants is btass fea-
tures; then put on impudence, and mistake it for
manners. The maiden’s prayer in Bega is “ Lord,
give me a man.” And, if they find a man, how are
they able to treat him? Can some of them boil a
potato, make a pudding, rear a child, or keep a
house where the gaudy carpet doesn’t cover inches
of dirt in the corners? Go to; your sisters who
“go out to work” are your superiors in every
way.


Talk about scathing satire—well, if that’s
the kind of article you’re after now, you’re just a
trifle late, for the greatest master of the age, the
Rev. Richard Dill Macky, has started off to (boss
the Presbyterian Church of the County Derry*
Ireland. Just before he left, the usual select little
circle of testimonial-throwers presented him with
a well-sucked emu egg, tastefully set in silver, and
during the course of me subsequent “completely
taken by turprise” speech, the sly old Richard
cuttingly observed, “ in such a case as this it is not
the intrinsic value of the gift that we look to, but
rather to the sincerity and status of the donors.”
Just so. And we also learn that the presentation
was made by D. M'Beatb, Esq . J.P.—no less. The
choir will now warble the 147th Psalm, while we
borrow a corkscrew and tap a fresh bottle of
Brother Woseby’s “unfermented.”
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quick complete cure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
r>rn(roosts. Moses. Moss A: Co.. Genera. Agents.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &c. No commission charged for
buying. %W" Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
¥ 7 * £SsVvuJ-, /<WUs
jj Ojnsrs cL -n~v&i * ~ , ,»,
"Vu-ajiu a. i at {HZ'. r ._ _, ~71T~~~7~~y. —" °'^ i ' tsytXLmM E&
a
c
zxzjfgrr
4>A viriXL £o
—t^-t^^^^v•
yWH-AA $ sr-v-i/ c 4.
Sxji <?wr JiltS
a
C "
**y osia~a 4r a. SjtiCf'
J’ <t ~~ r\ m jL V ++,asU+. L4*ru. ti. £G^a^C.
cJLcc*+-*jt.
SsQtt <J4> ZA±4 f^LA^it *±0j
-Ya
r
The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to tho Market*.
|KS»I
The Autophone is a wonderful little instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays in three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &o. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing veiy lively
pieces.
Price, 30s.
NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
theatre ItOYAii—“ Macbeth ” p. 8.
Opera House—“ Ticket-of-Leave Man ” ib.
Gaiety Theatre—“Fun on the Bristol ” ib.
Academy of Music— Federal Minstrels ib.
Of course you have seen “The Ticket-of-
Leave Man.” for it here before. But. if you
•didn’t see it then it doesn’t make any difference,
for it is here again, large as life and twice as
natural. Signor Majeroni put it on at the Opera
ifouse a few nights ago, with J. H. Rainford in the
title role, and Jennie Lee cast as Sam. And, now,
you will want us to tell you how Mr. Rainford be-
haved himself in the character of a Ticket-of-
Leave Man, originally from Lancashire. You
want to know this because you haven’t seen him
on the stage lately, and. perhaps, never saw him in
a character such as Robert Brierly. Well, the
truth is that Mr. Rainford surprised his old friends
hy the way he played the part, and the truth is
that we can’t think of anybody in Australia, just
now, who could have done better, nor even
go well. We know about 110 actors how-
ever, who, when they read the foregoing sen-
tence, will exclaim to themselves ‘“Pooh! You
ought just to see me play that part once.” That’s
the way with these actors: they are always draw-
ing comparisons between other professionals as
they see them and themselves as they are. If you
were as clever a mind-reader as we are, you would
exclaim, after one of these injured inn cents gets
through with a mental effort of the kind, “ Good
Lord, what a diseased imagination that man has
got!” If he heard you say this, he would be vexed,
probably, and might throw the latest saveloy he
bad “cadged” from the coffee-stall at you. The
chances are that as you read these lines a hundred
different actors are doing the same thing, and
cursing us because we have failed in the past to
point out some of their imagined pet excellencies
to a dull and undiscriminatiDg public. But such
is life—yes, just so:—and as the Widow O’Brien
remarks, while the tear- roll out of her eyes and
make a channel through the paint on her nose:
“How threw it is—we’re gone to-day, and here
to-morrow.” And this leads up to the thought
trat when the boss looks over our cackle this
week he may transnrse the sentence for us, and
ask us if we think there is any climate more ealu-
hrious than Hades that we would like to go to,
“ forsll he cares.” After the language of the ballet
girl whose admirer sent her a farewell note to the
effect that he had ceased to love her and would no
longer come to caress her—’ 1 My trubbls.” by the
American mail which is to arrive to-night or to-
morrow, we are going to receive a consignment of
natural curiosities, including a flea with a wooden
leg and a hen that lays odds on the winner. We
shall exhibit these to a twonder-gazing public,
while our partner works the pockets on the outer
ring.
And right here we want to put a feather in
Mr. Carden’s hat. We have seen him do a lot of
things in our time, but we don’t recollect ever
seeing him do anything half so well as he played
Jem Dalton the other night. Jem Dalton, you
remember, has several aliases, and, altogether, is a
had lot, being a “ shover of the queer,” a burglar,
ete. etc etc. As Downey, the Shipping Merchant,
Mr. Carden disguises his voice so completely that
we had to look at him a dozen times before we
could believe it was he. He looked so much like
an old stock broker we once knew, who came into
the parlour just at the wrong time to see why his
daughter was playing out of tune, that we felt
constrained to break for the over-coat stall, and
flee from the wrath to come. But we manfully
stuck to our seat, and were rewarded by seeing
some of the truest acting that Mr. Carden has
done in many a day. As the Tiger, too, Mr. Carden
was all there, stripes, tail, teeth, claws, and all.
* * »
Oily Deering always plays fairly, but his
make-ups don't exactly suit us sometimes. For
instance, in the character of Melter Moss, a Jew
“fence,” he wears a blonde wig and beard, and a
nose so confoundedly Jewish that a pig would turn
grey in one night after seeing it. Perhaps in the
original text Mr. Moss is described as a blonde
•Tew. We don’t know how this is, and don’t care:
but we do know that nobody ever saw a fair-haired
Jew with a nose like Melter Moss. Oily should
either take off the wig or the r ose; but the pro-
babilities are that if we W6re to tell him so, he
would get contrary, and say “ Blow the wig,” and
pull his nose. We are an admirer of noses. Edwin
Palmer, however, who plays Gibson, the bill-
broker, rather catches us more than anybody else
by the versatility he shows in the matter of nasal
appurtenances. We have seen him with a nose so
long that he could only scratch half-way to the
end of it. And this reminds us of an actress we once
knew who had a nose so loDg that she always had
to sleep with the end of it out of her bedroom
window. When playing through the country dis-
tricts, the fowls used to roost on it at night, and in
the day time she always had to walk out to the
middle of the street before she could turn a
corner. The last time we saw her was Cup day
down in Melbourne In the first flat race she
allowed it to stick out over the track, with the re-
sult that, all the horses took it for the top rail of a
gum-tree fence, and went over it on the jump.
Just before the next race, however, she happened
to get her eve on us, and the end of her nose flew
so high in the air that a cockatoo wouldn’t roost
on it. The sunerintendent of railways saw her
that day and offered her a billet as gate-keeper on
one of the suburban fines, she to supply tbe pole
that reached across the track when no trains were
insight. But she didn’t accept the billet, for the
reason that the Government wouldn’t allow her a
hose and nozzle attached to the metropolitan
water works, so that she could wash the dust and
flies off the end of her proboscis during the summer
weather. But, enough of these noses for the pre-
sent. V\ e'll be accused of sticking our nose into
other people s business if we don’t look out. and
that, might cause our tender soul to shrivel up and
float away.
sb sk 5k
Jennie Lee’s Sain is about as clever a bit
of acting- as any one need care to see. If we were
Jennie we should stick to boy parts all the time,
for she can look and act more like a young masher,
or, if the occasion offers, like a young larrikin,
than any male artist we ever saw on the stage.
Sam is a mightv fast young swell, who plays Nap
and drinks whisky and soda, until his poor old
grandmother (Mrs. Edwin Palmer' nearly grieves
her life away. Then at the advice of Robert
he reforms, and, we are led to believe, turns
out to be a very model young man who has a long
and happy future before him. And w« want to
tell you, too, that Mrs. Palmer plays the grand-
mother away in advance of anything we have seen
her do for months. The “ luck of the cast,” pro-
bably, had a great deal to do with this in the past,
but the artiste has found an opportunity that she
doesn’t fail to improve to the fullest extent. Miss
bewis, too, who plays the part of Robert's wife,
looks so pretty and interesting and talks so con-
stant and true like, that all the bachelors in the
audience are seized with a matrimonial fit. at once.
But enough of “ The Ticket-of-Leave Man ” for
the present, for we have several other shows to
look after this week, and the devil is yelling for
copy.”
** * *
The Minstrels. Are they still here? Yes,
gentle reader, they are; and if it weren’t for the
crowded houses that have been attending the per-
formances. we should begin to think that Colonel
Hiscocks didn't have money enough to take the
black devils out of town. But the crowded
houses is what does the business, and our flatter-
mg notices are what draws the crowd. Perhaps
jou don’t believe this, but you just let us shut our
head for a week or two about any performance in
town, and then watch the result. Don’t go there
hk« a blamed fool to watch the result, but watch
it from a distanoe, and if the thing don’t
turn out as we have said, and the attendance
don't fall off 50 per cent, in the dress-
O'rcle. :}8 per cent, in the stalls, and 27 per cent, in
the pit or gallery, we’ll allow you to buy us a new
spring hat just as soon as the Paris fashions are in.
But we mustn’t forget to tell you that Frank
Hussey has arnvfed from South Africa, and has
taken bone 3 No. 1, Sam. Keenan is bones No. 2.
Horace Bent has taken Sam’s old place with the
tambo, and Johnnie Cowan plays second to
Horace. So you see, they h ve four end men now,
aDd the fun is freer than ever. You ought to see
Frank Hussey. He looks like a statue of Brigadier
Brii die MTvor done in black, but he also looks
every inch an American darkey, and can rattle the
bones to discount anything we’ve teen for some
time. You ought to go and see Frank Hussey, for
he has a great reputation as a Minstrel performer,
and hasn’t been long enough away from home to
lose t he genuine darkey dialect.
** * *
You don’t know it, perhaps, but “Fun on
the Bristol” will be a thing of the past, so far as
Sydney goes, after Friday night of this week.
Dick Whittington went up to Newcastle a week
ago to arrange for its production there, and on
Saturday the bright and entertaining company
leave per steamer for the borough of coals. We
intend to be on the wharf to throw an old slipper
after them; for they have been good friends of
ours, and made us laugh when the world looked
cold and cheerless, and we couldn’t smile even at
one of our own jokes. The thought often strikes
us that, no matter how smart a man may think he
1-, he'll find himself in mighty poor company when
he relies entirely on his mother’s only son for
entertainment. We tried being alone one time
(but don’t give it away, for solitary confinement
isn't a thing to boast of) for six weeks, and the
honest truth is that we would have sold our birth-
right in heaven—all there is left of it- for even a
toad or a spider to which we might talk and work
up a companionship with. You will notice that
our grammar is a little “off” this morning, but
you musn’t pay any attention to this, for we were
off all over last night and had to rasp our head
down with a sandstone before we could get our
room-mato s hat on. But we were going to tell
you the “ Fun on the Bristol ” boys—yes, and girls,
too—have helped us to while away many an hour
that otherwise would have been wearisome as we
fumbled through our pockets and encountered
ancient board bills, lodging accounts, and the like,
still innocent of the maker’s i ignature. And we have
not been alone in this, for we have taken note of the
well-pleased crowds that for eight long weeks, night
after night, have crowded the Gaiety, to laugh
more heartily than we. It is seldom that we say
as much as that for any troupe. One reason is
that they don’t deserve it, and then it sounds a
little like the twaddle that is sometimes bought
from the daily critics at the price of a pint, of beer
and a catgut saveloy. Were we not above suspi-
cion, we could not say this now without injuring
the future of a company in which we hold the
controlling shares, and in whose takings we have
NO COMPULSION: ONLY YOU MUST.
THE SUNDAY ALTERNATIVE, AS THE BIGOTS WOULD HAVE IT.
an intensely unqualified interest. But we must
dismiss them now—Sheridan and DeLorme, Meade
and Dunbar, Freearand Sullivan, May Livingstone,
Fanny Saroney. and Adeline Hynes. It is needless
to state that we would keep the ladies of the com-
pany if we could, but we can’t. The fact is that
we can’t any more than U cep ourself after a fashion,
and are expecting a reduction in salary for sins of
omission and commission that onlv the sons of
ministers are supposed to be prone to.
** * *
We have been to see “Macbeth” again,
and found the Koyal crowded as usual. The hard
times of which almost every business man is com-
plaining don’t seem to have the least effect on the
play-going public of Sydney. The dresses are just
as pretty and costly and the people have that
happy, light-hearted look that betokens freedom
from the annojanoe of bills from the butcher and
baker that c >h't be met, and even the tradesmen
themselves turn out with their families, and look
as jolly and fat as yellow oranges in a basket of
potatoes. But if you want to see “ Macbeth ” you
must go before Saturday night, for the opera sea-
son is to be inaugurated on that evening At the
Royal there will be the “Pirates of Penzance,’’
and, at the Gaiety, Stanley’s Juvenile Opera Com-
pany will hold down the bo rds until further
notice. Annis Montague and Mr. Charles Turner
will appear in opera bouffe at the Royal for
the fi st time in Sydney, and as we have
been requested to announce that thB managers
intend sending around a carriage and pair
for us, of course, the will turn out in force,
and you’ll have to b n ok your s°ats early if you
want good sittings. We shall bid good-bye to
some of the witches and apparitions and things
with a good deal of pleasure, for they hive stayed
here several weeks now in disguise, without their
names on the programme, so that we haven’t
been able to write about them and give them a
scoring as we felt inclined. We shall miss Gene-
vieve Ward and Mr. Vernon— and Mr. Booth-
man, likewise; but, if we hear of their being
shipwrecked oa the way to Adelaide, we shan't
mourn any for Boothman, because we’re certain
there is enough air in him to keep him afloat <>n
the wildest waves. If you haven t seen “ Mac-
beth,” you should go at once, and our word for it
you’ll not regret the money spent. If you do rue
it, come around to us and we’ll sell you Oriental
Bank notes at 17s on the pound, and in that way
we’ll get even with you.
•* * *
Of course, Professor and Mrs. Baldwin are
still calling dead peop e out of their graves, and
raising Hades generally, at the new Masonic Hall,
Castlereagh-street. The best part of the enter- j
tainment is the thought-reading of the Professor {
and the clairvoyant, achievements of Mrs. Baldwin.
We have been holding private seances with the
Professor during the past week, and can now do
the business almost too well. After taking our
first lesson we met a man in the street that we
have owed 14s. to for the past seven years. So
perfect had we become in the science, that we
didn’t need to place the man’s hand to our fore-
head and drag him around the street to find out
what he was thinking about. We didn't take hs
hand at all, in fact, but skipped down a right-of-
way as though we hadn’t heard his “Cooeel” for
a moment. Ho didn’t follow us, but the next dsy
we got a letter that convinced us we were an ex-
pert in the business and had correctly interpreted
his thoughts. It read—but no matter how it rtad.
A phrenologist recently examined our head, and
told us that we ought to cultivate the bump of
secretiveness, and we're going to begin right now.
* * *
The funniest thing about Professor Bald-
win's entertainment is the jokes and quaint say-
ings with wh’ch he intersperses the evening’s
programme. But the great point of interest to a
scientific or a thoughtful mind is the feats of
thought-reading and clairvoyance. You may look
about the hall and fasten your thoughts on any
object that your eyes may encounter, and If it is
within the Professor's reach and you are agree-
able, he'll place your hand on his forehead and
pull you ov» r the place until he gets his hand on
the object. Then he’ll tell you about it, and by
the time he gets through, you’ll be more surprised
than you were the first time the darling little
angel you married a year before threw her boots at
vour head and called you a mean, hateful thing
because you said that no other woman on earth
knew how to cook half so well as your mother
used to. Then you may write any question in
your note-book, just where you are sitting, and
keep thinking about that question. Presently Mrs.
Baldwin will tell you the answer to the question,
and afterwards will repeat the exact words you
have written. You are sceptical about this, of
course, if you haven’t seen anything of the kind-
just like we used to be —but we’ll wager you a
year’s salary, if the boss will advance it, that there
is no humbuging about it, and that it you are
honestly sceptical and fair, you’ll be more
surprised at the results than you ever were at any-
thing before. We asked the Professor the other
night how long he was going to remain in Sydney,
and he was just American enough to reply: “As
long as it pavs. Not a day longer.” However, if
you watch the papers you’ll see when he is going
away, and, in the mean time, take our tip and go
to see his marvellous performance yourself.
Members of the theatrical piofession will
be ple-sed, if not surprised, to know that there is
a place called TJUadulia Well, TTlladullais a Para-
dise that is closed against them. At least, the
Agricultural Association of that pious hamlet have
resolved that no side-shows shall admitted at
their exhibitions. They have come to the conclu-
sion that these shows are the secret causj of the
immorality and irreligion so conspicuous through-
out that part of the country at the present time.
Indeed, they more than hint that such perform-
ances were probably the cause of the late drought.
This is a crusher tor tie poor player, but, let's
see. Hum! yes!
Minstrels! let not this news by chance
Upon your brows cast any glooms—
That is to say, if glooms are able
To show upon a ground of sable;
But, “ whites ” or “ cullurds,”
Let unt this little circumstance
. Ruffle in any way your plumes;
For you will live, and laugh, and dance
When they are in their mouldy tombs,
These Ulla-dullards.


PEPPER AND SALT.
BLESS HIM!
Last week, a Stipendiary Mag'strate iu
Sydney told a prisoner that “a man had a peil .ct
right to get drunk so long as he does not annoy
people.”
Now, blessings on his hoary head! -
If haply that his hoad is hom y
May it bo haloed when he's dead
And gone to everlasting glori !
He comoth, as the man with dyed
Red garments from the land of Edom,
With our palladium of pride.
Our noble heritage of freedom
The dazzling right to get blind drunk
As soon and often as we can, sirs;
Now we can die and murmur, “Yai.c
Dimitti*; wo have seen a ma~, sirs ”
The Government of the Khedive.
Says the Maitland Mail :—“ An accident
happened to the son of Mr. T Hughes, of this
town, which might have resulted seriously. The
hoy was in the act of firing off a toy cannon, when
Jt burst. Luckily, he sustained no iojury, and is
progressing favourably under the care of Dr.
Pierce.” We wonder what Dr. Pieroe has been
up to, to get slated this way? Has he made a
botch of that attempt to remove the diseased por-
tion of the editor's brain, or doesn't the sub-
stituted tallow fit comfortably ? Something
wrong, anyhow. If a patient progresses favour-
ably under Dr. Pieroe when he has sustained no
injury But we leave it to the doctor to fight
it out.
m •
Speaking of the proposal to open the -
reading-room on Sundays, the Maitland Mail )
says ‘that many ministers of religion are aito- !
gel her opposed to the idea, we are aware, and this ■
fact hag made us utloug of expressing an opinion
on the subject without mature consideration."
That's right; nothing like caution in a case of that
sort. Take the matter into “mature considera-
tion” before offering an opinion adverse to the
holy men, or you are undone. Just consider it.
You would actually bo encouraging people to
spend an hour or two with the infidel crew of
Dickens, Carlyle, or Proctor, when they might be
snugly asleep after a fat dinner, or listening to the
ever-fresb narration of the adventures of the
Israelite s, as given by one of these vessels of
Salvation. How ought one to shudder on rellect-
ing that any Maitland man might be found on the
Sat bath with Macaulay spread out before him,
whilst tbe vtice of the holy man of God comes
floating out on the night air, bearing the cheering
intelligence that unless the whole world comes
over to the views of the Rev. Douglas Mac Calvin
I ouglas, they must perish everlastingly. For our
p rt, we never advance an opinion on any im-
portant question without carefully ascertaining
what our clergyman would advise. We shouldn’t
feel safe.
* * *
Barnum has offered a prize of $5OO for a
poem on his white elephant. The prize is still open.
None of the poems he got suited him. So that
Lewis Scott may yet be affluent. Hut, stay! Has
not Sladen a truer touch ? He has already written
a poem, to a pig: why not one to an elephant?
Evidently he is intended for a zoological laureate.
We 6hou.ld like to see the poem the elephant would
write on Sladen.
* * *
Whai/’s the matter with Carcoar Mary?
She cor les out on tea-paper this week, and has a
clippinfentitled “The Editor and the Dun.” But,
letting this slide, we come at once upon more deli-
cate g round. There is an essay labelled, “Is
Marrlw l Life preferable to Single?” and (what is
rnoyg h > our purpose! a poem, “ republished by
special request,” entitled “ The Nine Stages of
Women." It is very nice; and all we regret is that
we were too busy to calculate the exact time ia
which to send to Carcoar our undemonstrative
timhalle. We consider this much of the poem
mentioned not only appropriate, but affecting:—
“ Little babe with curly head,
Dimpled cheeks of roses red,
Laughing in its cradle bed.
“ Little wife with merry face,
Pull of new-born pride and grace,
Clinging to her lord's embrace.”
[Just what we admire.— Ed. B.]
“ Little baby on her knee
Crowing in its childish glee,
While mother listens happily.”
Well, Mary, this is what comes of getting married.
These awkward things will occur, somehow. We
never could make it out. Some peculiar virtues
in the “ keeper,” perhaps.
It was left for a selector in the Cooma dis-
trict to outwit Sir John Robertson. The selector
in question holds two conditional purchases, on
each of which he had, in accordance with the Act,
to make certain improvements. Well, he set to
work and built a hut on one of them. Then he
made his declaration as to the value of the improve-
ments on that piece, the hut beiDg counted among
them. A few days after, a naan riding past ob-
served that the hut was on the other side of the
road, on the second conditional purchase. He
asked the selector about it. “ Well,” said the
latter, “you see I had to swear to some improve-
ments on the first purchase.’’ “Yes—yes,’’ said
the man; “I understand.” “Very good,” con-
tinued the selector; “I sworo the hut was one.
Then I had to swear to improvements on the
second lot. So I brought the hut over, and that’s
why it’s here now.” ‘ II —11!" exclaimed the man
with involuntary admiration ; “tut bow did
you get it over ? ” “ Why, you see,” replied the
selector, with a chuckle, I had that in my eye
when ;i built it.” “ Well ? ” “ Well, you know
j it's on wheels!"
• • •
The person who wields the editorial paste-
brush in the Wollongong Argus office will be
famous some day, if ho is not prematurely killed.
He will be famous as the most highly-finished'
simpleton on this side of the equator. Mark the
magnificent idiocy of the following paragraph
which we quote from one of his late issues:—
“ ‘ Excuse me, mister,’ bawled out a leery member
of a leery mob as we were passing a certain pub
! the other day, hoping to ‘slew’ us round. ‘Ceil
tainJy,’ we replied graved’, ‘ignorance is alwajs
excusable.” How the mob must have quailed
when they heard this! But it is too thin a story
It is a construction, and a poor one. The meb was
constructed, the repartee was constructed, and is
only excusable on the grounds alleged. The editor
gives himself away when he speaks of passing a
pub. It is impossible, out of a dream. That is, of
course, unless the pub. was closed or the landlord
was cynical.
* • *
We dare do much, but this is too much.
Such was the speech of the editor of the Protes-
tant Standard when the aboriginal artist who
illustrates that brimstone journal brought in a
portrait of Brother Punch Hicks. Little as their
circulation is, they could not afford to lose it. This
is very severe on Brother Hicks. Yet they might
have published his portrait safely enough if they
had left his name out. The readers—we suppose
there are readers —would only have taken it for a
picture of the Old Lady of the Seven Hilis,
* * *
A new p'-per has hern started at Braid-
wood—or, rather, an old one has been revived. We
are glad to see this-. Braidwc od is a plice throb-
bing with life. In one of tbe iatest issues of the
Dispatch, the local news is confined to a stray pig
case, An exciting place, Braidwood— for pig*.


THE REVEREND CALDWELL’S BLOOD.
The Reverend Caldwell said, at the Orange
Demonstration at Penrith on 13th July last, re-
ferring to the reign of James 11., that “when he
read of the doings in those days, it made his blood
boil-”
The Stuart despot on his throne,
Who plunged the land in bigot broil,
How he’d have tumbled had he known
“ The Reverend Caldwell’s blood would boil I’
The Pope, how he'd have shrunk with dread
While counting England as his spoil,
If somebody had up and said,
“ The Reverend Caldwell’s blood will boil!”
King William, knowing this event,
He would have said, “ This pays my toil;
Give me some schnapps! I die content:
“ The Reverend Caldwell’s blood will boil 1”
Sarsfield, how he'd have quaked with fear
If someone—Dempsey, Bourke, or Doyle—
The Long Vacation.
SUITOR: “HERE, I SAY; I WANT JUSTIGE.”
LAWYER: “JUSTICE IS AWAY FOR THE HOLIDAYS. SIX-AND-EIGHTPENCE, PLEASE.”
Had only whispered in his ear,
The Reverend Caldwell’s blood will boil!”
And that Brigade that, last and lone,
Still fought for every inch of soil,
Where would they be if they had known
“ The Reverend Caldwell’s blood will boil ?”
After, at Fontenoy, the prime
Of British soldiers could they foil,
If someone had but yelled in time,
“ The Reverend Caldwell’s blood will boil!”
Alas! that these should long ago
Have shuffled off their mortal coil,
And never cared a curse to know
Caldwell's blood was on the boil I
That tjiis is not forgot, take care—
On troubled waters why throw oil ?
But set it to some martial air,
“ The Reverend Caldwell's blood will boil.”
So Papists, in the years to come,
Wil tremble ’midst their mad turmoil,
When they hear pounding on the drum,
fhe Reverend Caldwell’s blood will boil!'
William James, of Adelaide, has given us !
a splendid example of self-sacrifice in the interests
of science. William was a groom, and when he i
blew out his brains in the privaeylof the stable*
everybody—including the horses—jumped to the
hasty conclusion that “temporary msanity” was
the cause of this unusual conduct. Not so; Wil-
liam decided to die from a stern sense of duty; he
felt that he would be more useful to mankind as a
skeleton, and, after writing a letter bequeathing
his body to Dr. Campbell for scientific purposes,
he gave up the ghost without further delay. How
many people might imitate William James, with
credit to themselves and benefit to the general
community. But a poetic frenzy has seized us:—
A NOBLE END.
Some “ suicides ” have but one thought
To end a life of woe
(E’en then, ’tis doubtlul if we ought
To blame them, don’t you know);
But others from this world have fled
With more unselfish aims;
They knew they’d be more useful dead —
Of such was William James.
For William, though a skilful groom,
Still felt his fittest place
Would be in the dissecting-room—
To serve the human race
As “subject” for the surgeon’s knife;
Yet often cried, “ How vain
My dreams! for, while I cling to life,
My end I can’t attain.”
A hero, though, was William J.,
To daring deeds inclined,
And as he rode along one day,
This notion cros«ed his mind:
“ Since while I live I don’t fulfil
My mission upon earth,
I’ll die, and leave myself by will
To those who'll prove my worth.
“ When I my purpose have achieved,
Thou joy will fill my cup;
My friends, I trust, will not be grieved
Because I am cut up.
This worthless life I can forsake
Without the least remorse,
Assured that when this course I take
The doctor takes my corse."
Thus William set his mind at rest;
He dreaded not the deed—
No craven fear reigned in his breast
As he reined in his steed.
He vowed to carry out his plan
And kill himself that day—
For William was a stable man
In every shape and way.
That night, a little graceful note,
Bequeathing his remain?,
With cool, untrembling hand he wrote,
And then—blew out his brains.
He fell; his eyelids gently closed;
He drew a final breath.
Beside the note, in life composed,
Lay Bill, composed in death.
Oh! that some M.L.A.’s would feel
(Alas, they never will!)
Prompted to aid the publio weal
By acting just like Bill.
Him for a model they should take,
When they remember how
Surgeon’s can useful subjects make
Of people worthless now.
• mm
She’s “at it” again. Read (from the
News):— “Matrimony.—A lady, of a superior in-
tellectuality, skilled in arts and sciences, with high
moral recommendations, wishes to meet with a
well-educated gentleman; must be highly moral,
with noble ideas, and in good position. Elvez-
zia,” etc. Not for us, old girl, thank you.
The last one we married would do nothing
but play Chopin's waltzes on the piano all day,
and when we remonstrated, hit us on the head
with a brick. No, no! the “intellectuality” we
want is that whieh is embodied in the use of the
box-iron. We mean the use of the box-iron on
the other one, while we are reading Browning (or
Browne) curled up between the unbleached.
If anybody has any more larks with
Alfred, we won’t play with them. Our little
“cbaneys” shall come straight out of their yard f
and when wo've done making soup of our sheep’s-
heads, we won’t throw any over the fence for their
dog to browse on. See what Alf's Melbourne cor-
respondent says about poor Giorza:—“ The friends
j of Signor Giorza will be glad to learn that he is
j now engaged upon an important musical produc-
J tion at Milan. Private letters received by the last
j mail speak of the proposed production of an ex-
: traordinary ballet d’action in La Scala, in Milan, in
| December next. Tne first scene will represent
| chaos,” &c. Why, in thunder, should Paolo go so
far to represent “chaos,” when the managing
editor of the Evening Circulation seems to
keep it wholesale, retail, and for exportation ?
. * * *
The editor of the new Cooktown paper—
the Independent— seems to be having a lively
! time of it. He went into a pub. there, to pay an
1 account, when he got “ landed ” by the editor of
the Herald. The landlord of the hotel, Mr.
Trotter, said, in his evidence, that he “thought
the Independent staff was drunk that day;” and
Mrs. Trotter deposed to the fact that when Mr.
James Fowler returned, after being hammered
by Simpson (the other man), “ with Mr. Till, be.
cause he refused a drink she threw it at him.” |.!l!]
But, notwithstanding this, the Red Lion hotel
seems to have a weird kind of fascination for Mr.
Fowler, as, a few weeks later, under the heading
of “Cowardly Attack—Garotting an Editor,” we
find that at the same hostelrie he is “ seized by the
throat and pummelled on the face and head by
Timber Inspector Simpson, Mr. John Trotter look-
ing on and apparently approving.” The Bench
dismissed the first case, and the particulars of the
second have not yet come to hand; but Mr. Fowler
does not seem to be very popular. Mr. Fowler
states that he has received several more throats
from civil servants; so, therefore, we think the
best thing he can do is cart as much as there is left
of him South. He might write poetry for the
SHRoup. Its other bar 4 oan't Jive long,


BRIEF MENTION.
A sound spec.: A telephone
The rest policemen yearn for: Ar-rest.
Canon Stephen dead! Thunder! there goes
our other subscriber I
The only thing to be said in favour of
virtue is that it is cheap.
VICISSITUDES OF THE POWDER TRADE.
“Again amongst the scrub—now climbing a hill, whilst the mud climbed the legs of
the pedestrians’ pantaloons—for most of the visitors were nearly all on foot —and
then for a short distanoe descending a gully in hopeless competition with the des-
cending rain, the sight of the Powder Works cheered their spirits.”—The RUM.
But what powerful incentive could call out such agalaxy of creatures upon such a day,
and such a journey—to say nothing of the risk of a blowing up at the end? Was
it merely the prospect of a glass of champagne, together with the opportunity for
a display of maudlin eloquenoe? Perish the thought!
Woman’s influence is powerful, especially
when she wants anything.
“Heartless Frauds on Women” (we take
this heading from an exchange): Husbands.
The Hehald reviews “The Political (sic)
Works of Keats.” This comes of having a pub.
just opposite.
“ Why doesn’t Harris speak ?” asked one
man. “Too much (Pyrmonted) discretion,” replied
the other man.
A gas company has been started in Mudgee.
It is time the inhabitants of that town made some
use of their members.
“A wioked woman will stoop to any-
thing,” snys a pious contemporary. Will she ? She
will not stoop to scrub.
The Auckland Fkee Lance has doubled
its size. So there is now exactly twice as much
rot in it as there was before.
Dootors are a long-suffering olass: Patients
are eternally poking their tongues out at them,
and yet they never complain.
Even in Cooktown the newspaper pro-
prietors fight. There are some people who would
quarrel on the brink of perdition.
“What’s that?” cried a stranger to a
friend, in the streets ot Mudgee. “Hush!” re-
plied the other; “that’s our editor.”
A Cooma baker sold his family Bible be-
fore leaving the town the other day. It was
bought by a local collector of curios.
A young man recently suicided in Wollon-
gong. He had heard that the Premier was shortly
to come up and address the electors, und
The parsons down South are praying for
more earthquakes. The collections for the last
two Sundays rose to double the ordinary amount.
A correspondent to one of the country
papers wants to know how to prevent turns from
eating eggs. This is easy. Eat the hens, of course.
Talking of a Burrowa wedding, the paper
mentions “the fortunate groom.” It doesn’t say
whose groom. But, there! it boots us net to know.
The Nepean Times has a story headed “ A
Sinless Secret.” When you get about half tbrou* h
it, you find the secret is that the author can't spell.
Another crusher for us from the clergy.
Archbishop Moran is a total abstainer. Thank
Godness, we have Bishop Barry to fall back upon.
A Deniliquin milkman was charged with
stealing a cow last week. As though a milkman
had any use for a cow! Now, if it had been a
pumpl
Men who are always proclaiming their
readiness to shed the last drop of their blood in a
good cause are generally very particular about the
first drop.
Country editors are beginning to make
cautious appearances in the main streets of their
villages. The shooting season ends on the last day
of this month.
Last week old Stewart came out of his
coffin with a vengeance. We had a delicacy, owing
to the nature of the ancient buffer’s trade, in
writing “shell.”
"‘‘Joe says, re Dauiel Smith, that he never
assisted him because he thought he could help the
Claimant, but purely out of “ commission-agent
for his indolence.”
Recently, a Queensland Bench discharged
a man brought up for stealing a set of harness, and
afterwards directed that the goods be given back
to their proper owner.
“ What shall I do ?” asks the man who
writes " Scenes by the Way” in the Qpeanbeyan
Times As though there need be a moment's hesi-
tation! Die, of course.
Bucoleueh died worth five millions;
We wonder where he went.
What d’ye think the poor got?
JVot a yoldarned cent.
“ Many of our ancestors were hanged ces-
tors,” says the humourist of the Campbelltown
Hekat.d. The pun is wretched, but the truth it
conveys is immortal— in Campbelltown.
He’d been months polishing his poem, and
what were his feeliDgs when it appeared in print,
and the first line read—
“ I sit beside the stinking fire ?
Several commodious family residences are
■ announced as “to let ”at Tamworth. The same
paper contains an announcement that the bands
| there are shortly to have a “ grand contest.”
Judge Cope, of Melbourne, says that he was
I once a reporter in the London Times office. This
is a melancholy warning to our own boys who are
inclined to be lifted up with pride. There is no
: knowing the day they may come to be Judges.
I One is never secure against misfortune until he
dies.
Hanby says that a certain ancient bluei9h
yarn he spins reads “like a page from Balzac’s
Coktes Drolatiques or the Hoptameron of Mar-
garet of Navarre.” We shouldn’t wonder if it
did.
A funeral and a marriage ceremony took
place on the same day at a Kandwick church last
week. The coruse was heard to chuokle in his
coffin. He could well afford to. He had the best
of it.
Inoculation for rabies is the last scientific
fad. There ought to be a good lymph trade in the
Projestant Standard office. They will soon
inoculate for death. Then what a roaring business j
the Shroud corpses will have 1
RE THE OPENING OF THE GUNPOWDER WORKS, AT MANLY.
“The Governor, who rose before the conclusion of the banquet, said,” &c.
The platypus who writes the leaders for
the Queanbeyan Times says in one of his articles
quoting Wordsworth—“ We greater than we
know If it comes to a question of what he
knows, he could hardly be less.
Lady Slradbroke wrote the par. in the
j”°RLD that got Yates his four months. Sim got
.!“ t > ob 1 tor it. We wonder how many kollums
ot disastrous conflagrations and appalling dis-
closures she d have had to write Alfred for that ?
The trackers did not find any further news
of Gilbelly, the robber, out Dandenong way, than
that he sat on the fence for a while and wept
over a lady’s reticule. When the reticule waa car-
ried to the station it was identified as being part of
the stolen property, and on being opened it was
found to contain several photographs. That was
why Gilbelly 1' ft it. It was over these photo-
graphs he sat and wept. He thought he had made
a haul of something valuable, and found he had
only a lot of Dandenong faces.
“Mr. Von Bierm vows that he would lounge carelessly upon his verandah and watch
the magazines and machinery blow up as complacently, and with as little experi-
ence of fear for himself, his chalet and its occupants, as though they were miles
away.”—D.T.
POWDER PERSON : “Hello! there she goes again! Well, I calk’late there’s nothing for
it but to float some more stook, and build her up again!”
NO DOUBT.
The editor of the Cooma Spring — a jour-
nal chiefly remarkable for its serene fatuity and
nebulous print—says: “Had we the option of
being: a lunatic or a prince—-we believe we’d
banker after a throne.”
Just fancy ! So it comes to pass
If you'd the choice you’d be a king
Sooner than be a fool! Alas!
You didn't have the choice poor thing!
There is one heroine in the oolony, thank
Heaven, And she lives in Yass. The other night
she heard a noise at the door, which she Instantly
divined proceeded from burglars. With marvel-
lous presenoe of mind, she rose up, and arming'
herself with a revolver, boldly drew back the bolt
and threw the door open. It was only a policeman
asleep under the verandah. She did not fire. It
wouldn’t have mattered much if she had. re-
volver was charged with tea-leaves.
The editor of the Cootamundra TTwwAi.it
is in favour of the new gaol being built outside
the town. This is passing strange. We should
have thought, for his own convenience
[Enough; this is evidently dictated by malice.—
Ed. B.]
A Penrith young man took a dose of poi-
son lately in mistake for medicine. The local
paper calls the occurrence a contre-temps. If the
| young man had died, we suppose his death would
have been designated quite a malapropos occur-
rence.
At the Great Orange Celebration at Coota-
mundra, on the 12th, the local Pinkstone sang
with immense effect “ Flag the Wrap around me.”
We presume he had brought out an extra edition
of it to supply the means of complying with his
request.
The Rum asserts that the Sydney press is
unauimous in the view that the annexation of
New Guinea and its adjuncts is of immeasurable
importance to Australia, and thereby continues to
deserve its reputation as the Mother Colony’s Own
Sapphira.
“ Bedroom wanted by single man (lame).”
This is an Evening News advertisement. Curious,
isn’t it? Next, we suppose, we shall see a blind
man advertising for board. If so, Philip-street is
the place for him. “ What the eye never sees the
heart never grieves for.”
Oscar Wilde has begun to prophesy. He
says that “the model English country boy in the
future will go about seeking birds for an artistic,
not a destructive purpose.” Of course. He will
seek them for the purpose of stuffing in order to
sell them to bonnet-makers.
The Kiama editor neatly winds up an ap-
preciative report of a loyal Orange spree, ball and
concert, and sumptuous 6upper, with the apropos
remark “Dyspepsia, biliousness, nervousness,
miserableness, all cured with Hop Bitters." The
sly dog is evidently a Papist.
We notioe in the religious paners that
quite a lot of ministers have had “ calls ” lately.
It is amusing, this “call” business. The call is
supposed to come from the Lord,-but it is always
to a parish where the salary is higher. The Lord
is very good. Pass the plate !
At the Bowral Club concert held lately the
singers were regaled with coffee and sausage-rolls.
Then they sang “ Mother, can this glory be ? ”
Bowral should be a splendid recruiting ground for
Alfred when his present stock of dramatical
crickets dies out or is killed off.
A Southern paper informs its readers that
it has just sent its collector out. We have met
these newspaper collectors in the country ere
now. They usually travel with a “jimmy ” and a
kit of burglar’s tools. The trouble afterwards is
generally how to collect the collector.
NOT A .
Monaro people all are saying
That their election was a sham;
But while they’re indignation braying,
We do not really care a
[“ Continental.”—Ed. B.]
There is an anti-shouting society estab-
lished in Maryborough. So now all the influential
citizens shut themselves up in their coal-cellars,
and polish off their little quart of square gin all to
themselves. The effect of this has been that the
demand for household crockery has largely in-
creased in that town.
The van of the great procession of pro-
gress is now, as near as possible, in the latitude of
Yass. The police there have just started a hand-
cart for conveying “drunks” to the lock-up
One of the local editors hails this improvement
with an enthusiasm bordering upon pcstacy And
who could be a b tter judge ?


isrithdale’s rooms on Friday night were full
nf beauty and style. All the latest fashions in ball-
rnom vesture were seen, frem tbe simple ballet-
akirts, white and light and flowing, of the young
debutante, to the elegant robes of the stately
matron, warm and gorgeous in all the colouring
nf the richer satins and brocades, or the sable
shades of the dowager division who come to sit
in ouiet seats out of the dizzy whirl and think of
the days gone by. There was a large proportion
nf black silk and satin dresses among elderly ladies.
Against these the uniforms of the German and
English naval officers stood out in contrast, for
there is hardly a Sydney private assembly ball
where officers are not seen. It may be that the
assembly is so fond of the officers or that the
officers are so fond of the assembly, but at any rate
thev are always there. On the occasion of these
balls extra decorations are invariably put up,
and nothing could be chaster than the thick
rabies of woven leafage that hang in festoons
from the cornices and between the pilasters on the
tinted walls. In the supper-room. Compagnoni s
best efforts were visible in the rUchercM creations
of the confectioner's art; while the soft strains of
KoDff’s string band filled the ball-room with its
sweetest and dreamiest music. Just as in years
past, the programmes of the Sydney Private
Assembly are, like the laws of the Medes and Per-
sians. a thing “that altereth not.” One square
dance in ten is about enough, several polkas
.which, however, are seldom ,polka d), and then
all the rest of the time is given to the queen of
modern dances, the supreme, the superb, the
ecstatic waltz. Only, there is no reversing. Osten-
sibly, because it is bad form; actually, because the
majority cannot do it. Ergo, the majority rules.
Soon after one, the rooms begin to thin, the
bright-eyed beauties, and the patient duennas with
a feeling of relief, were helped one after another
into the carriages whose lamps gleamed down the
street in a long dotted line, and the pleasantest and
most fashionable Assembly of Sydney was over
for another month.
• • *
A social party was given last Thursday
evening at Mrs. Martin’s Hall, Pitt-street, by the
members of the Rover C.C., and, notwithstanding
bad weather, about 150 persons attended. The hall
was adorned with greenery and flags, implements
of cricket warfare, &c. Proceedings began by the
President, Mr. E. Woodley, making a tew remarks
on cricket. He only took a short innings; a brief
concert by members and friends followed, and the
President’s trophy, a gold locket, was duly handed
to Mr. J. Landers for his highest batting average.
About half past nine, music started the ball roll-
ing ladies entered the field, and kept the dancing
up at a “good bat” till the short hours, the only
breaks being when any of the field went out for
refreshment. They did not need to be put out
for the purpose. The Rovers intend making it an
annual affair.
* * *
The fourth of the Glebe Point Private As-
semblies was held Friday last, in the Glebe Town
Hall; and, notwithstanding the weather, 95 People
put in an appearance, the fair sex having a
majority of six. Callaghan’s catering was good,
while be Green's music was, as usual, Al, with
the exception of “ The Head March in Saui,
played as a waltz. It seemed like a flippant dis-
regard of the memory of poor Saul. The com-
mittee are to be congratulated on their punctu-
ality, as the last dance of 16, on a pretty pink and
gold programme, ended just in time for town
visitors to catch the midnight tram. As will be
seen, the gathering included many from other
suburbs, A representative of Newtown looked
particularly well in black and silver grenadine,
with velvet body; Randwick, a pink cashmere,
with chenille trimming; Woollahra, a blue satin
and swansdown; Annandale, blue satin and white
lace, a married sister in black velvet, a well-
known auctioneer’s daughter in white cashmere;
with two friends from Petersham, in pink
satin body, muslin skirt, and dark - green
velvet body and crushed strawberry skirt.
From Manly came a beautiful dancer in black and
silver grenadine, with dazzling arms. Pyrmont
Bridge Road had a favourite in cream and black;
an acknowledged belle, in black skirt with yellow
brcche waterfall; with a younger sister, a favour-
ite dancer, in black broche, ruby trimmings; a
cream and blue satin, with a friend in black
broche. From Hereford-street came the dancer,
in a black and gold grenadine; two charming
sisters in sea-green satin and cardinal, with a mar-
ried sistwr in cream and heliotrope satin. The two
usual Ferry Road representatives were in black
velvet bodies and loose nun’s veiling skirts. From
Stanmore came a blue satin with shrimp coloured
trimmings. Woolley-street sent two sisters, in a
blue, and a pink nun’s veiling, very prettily made.
As these assemblies are growing in popularity, the
next will, no doubt, be one of the largest gather-
ings ever held on the Glebe.
* * *
This is :i small par. on the bioyele craze.
With fine weather on Saturday, the Sydney B.C.
expect the greatest gathering of wheelmen ever
seen south of the line. The prizes have been the
admiration of Paling’s window for nine days.
There are three for every race, and two cups are
worth 50 guineas each. Queensland men are
coming to compete, and Melbourne flyers. Dr.
Cortis from Bathurst, and tbe cracks of N.8.W., so
the racing will be exciting enough to make the
girls clutch one another, and gasp, 'Oh, my!
The Naval Brigade band is to play on the lawn,
where the ladies will grace the occasion with their
countless charms, • nd treat admiring humanity to
a show of fashion that will fill him with ecsiacy
while he gazes, and make him shudder when he
thinks how much it all costs. Lord Loftus has
promised to be there in person, provided he is re-
covered from the gunpowder fete. On baturday
evening the intercolonial cyclists will be enter-
tained to a dinner at Baumann s, 7.30 p.m. On
Monday, 4th August, there will be a cyclists ball in
West’s rooms, given as a compliment to the visi-
tors by the Sydney Bicycle Club. Other clubs
will, however, all be represented, and most, of the
crack riders are going, whether they win races or
not. Either cycling uniform or dress suits may be
worn. It will be the first cycling ball ever held in
Sydney, and the arrangements are such as to
make it worthy the occasion.
• •
“Our Village” indulged in high l’evelry
on Saturday last. The fact is, the innumerable
vehicles congregated about the Manly Pier were
about equally divided between the interests of
what Lord Loftus calls “ a new patriotic industry
at Narrabeon, and a very fashionable wedding.
The Governor and Premier had both been asked
to be present at the gunpowder works; but while
His Excellency went, and narrpwly escaped a
blowing-up at Narrabeen (to say nothing of what
he incurred at home, for getting wet), the astute
Premier judiciously chose the wedding, where he
formed one of the honoured guests of Dr. and
Mrs Sachs on the occasion of the marriage of their
only daughter, Rosalie, with Mr. Samuel Lister-
Lister, eldest son of the late 8. Lister, Q. 0., of
Bath, England. Although J u piter Pluvius freely
used his watering-pot throughput the day, he did
not manage to damp the spirits of the wedding
guests “ Happy the bride whom the ram falls
on ” was the remark of a gentleman, who, when
told that his quotation was a departure from the
ordinary reading, replied that the antipodal bless-
ing was rain, by reason of its scarceness, and
that happy augury should always be drawn
when rain crowned the wedding day. The
church of St. Matthew’s at Manly was crowded
with spectators. Tbe interior was beautifully
decorated with flowers, the porch and altar-
rails being triumphs of floral art, and re-
flected immense credit on the young ladies who
undertook the ornamentation. The bridesmaids
were Miss Neill (the chief), Miss Metcalfe, Miss
Beatrice Metcalfe, Miss Charlie Neill, Miss Bella
Neill Miss Halloran, and Miss Christian—all beauti-
ful girls tastefull v dressed in cream-coloured cash-
mere trimmed with tan-coloured lace, and having
iai-o-e crimsm rosettes at the side; whit*? straw
"ate trimmed with deep green foliage and butter-
flies As the fair bride entered the church, hang-
ing on the arm of her father, Dr. Saohs, a buzz
of admiration was heard on all sides; and,
indeed, both her personal beauty and dress
justified the eulogies expressed by everyone.
The bridal dress—which set off admirably the
graceful figure of the bride—had a skirt of
pearl white satin, the front covered with exquisite
Brussels lace (the gift of her mother), with a long
train of creamy white ottoman silk; tulle veil.
The orthodox orange blossoms, with myrtle, being
the only ornaments worn. The mother of the
bride was attired in a beautiful olive-green broche
Intermixed with pale blue silk; a cream and tan-
coloured bonnet, with feathers and butterflies,
surmounted a really handsome costume, which
well set-off the dignified form of the wearer. The
marriage service was performed by the Wev. K.
Willis (Incumbent of St. Matthew’s), assisted by
Canon H. 8. King (St. Michael's), and the Rev.
Saliniere (of St. John’s). After the ceremony,
about 120 guests attended the “ At Home,” where
a sumptuous repast had been prepared in a
marquee by Gunsler and Co., of this city.
The bride-cake was really a work of art.
A.mongst the guests there were so many exquisite
THE CHOLERA SCARE.
FRENCH PARTY: “PARDON, M’SIEU: EST-CE QUE VOUS POURRIEZ ME DIRE, OU
LL-Y-A UN HOTEL FRANCAIS DANS CETTE VILLE?”
NERVOUS CITIZEN: “GREAT HEAVENS! A FRENCHMAN! EVEN AS HE ADDRESSES
ME, I FEEL STRANGE GRIPINGS WITHIN!”
toilets that it would be invidious to select a few.
Suffice it to say that a more brilliant assemblage
never graced “Our Village ” before. The presents
made to the bride were very numerous and costly,
a large room being fc»r the nonce converted into
the semblance of a jeweller’s shop, The health of
the bride and bridegroom was proposed in a
felicitous manner by the Hon. Alexander Stuart,
and was followed up by several happy speeches
from Captain Eldred, Rev. Willis, Rev. Saliniere,
and other gentlemen. Under a shower of rice tha
happy pair started for Sydney by steamer, on their
wedding tour to the Blue Mountains. Had the
weather been more propitious, it was intended
they should drive round via the North Shore. As
it was, the carriage and oair were driven at too
fast a pace down the declivity leading over Middle
Harbour. The driver was unable to correct their
career, which terminated fatally in thirty feet of
water at the crossing place. The horses were
both drowned, but the driver luckily escaped.
With the exoeption of this, the marriage proceed-
ings went off without a hitch, the festivities ter-
MICHAEL: “LAVE YOUR FRECKLES ALONE, MARY ANN! SHURE, YOU’LL BE LATE
TO THE PICNIC.”
MARY ANN: “IT’S NOT THE FRECKLES I’M AFTHER, BUT THE IND OF ME NOBE IS
NOT JIST QUO FAY: BAD CESS TO THAT MURTHERIN MUSKA-A-TO!”
minating with a dance, which was kept up with I
spirit by the younger guests at the house of their
entertainers, l)r. and Mrs. Sachs.
•* • *
Abont a fortnight ago, Mr. R. H. Levien, !
M.P., was entertained at a social spread at Smart’s
Hotel, Tamwortb, by his local admirers, who, of I
course, have no axes to grind. Mr. D. Began was
chairman, and Mr. David Buchauan was an active
unit, and told the Tamworthy people present just
what he thought of the Parliament. Mr. Levien
made what the Observer calls “a speech full of |
affection for the people of our district.” The j
grand West Bourke Farmers’ ball in Victoria has I
been followed by pallor and dismay. The receipts j
were £76, but the treasurer, who hoped to swell his j
fuuds, had not reckoned on the Victorian farmers’
interpretation of “ light refreshments.” Expenses
amounted to .£96, and the treasurer is convinced |
that the district so good for grain is bad for ;
“hops.”i...Cooma bachelors gave their annual
ball last month, the Mayor gracing' the ball-room,
and the rosy-cheeked Monaro girls had a high
time, as well as a high oolour. About 40 couples
gathered in the School of Arts ... Mr. E. F. S. Tyle-
cote, the cricketer, is expected back in Australia
this month, to claim the daughter of Sir W. Clarke.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Bright were entertained
at a soiree in the Dunedin Lyceum last month, ere
starting for Sydney, and Mrs. Bright was presented
with a case or jewellery . On Friday, Bth August,
a Masonic ball comes off in the School of Arts at
Richmond, for which great preparations are being
made. It is expected to be a most enjoyable affair...
A hundred ladies met at Brisbane, Mrs. Coombs
read an address on the C.D. Act, and a Social
Purity Society was formed. The ladies want the
Act repealed Splendid new hall of the Y.M.C.A.,
at Adelaide, opened by the Governor; soirde fol-
lowed— Sydney Newsboys’ Brigade is to have a
club. A house is rented in Castlereagh-stieet, and
will be opened in a few days. It is intended to
have amusements, a class-room, trade instruction,
and lodgings for a limited number. The drum
and fife band, now nine months old, is to be
brought to proficiency. The Brigade now numbers
120 —The Newcastle Liedertafel had a good social
evening last Thursday The third N S.R.C. ball
in June netted about £5O to the club Prelimi-
nary steps are taken to form a Clerks’ Society in
Sydney —Tradesmen’s annual ball at Newcastle
last week. A numerous and merry crowd... The
Parkes bachelors’ ball, on the 21st July, attracted
many good dancers, and with musio, floor, and
catering all first-class, the popular Mr. M. Pearson
being M.C., the whole passed off well.
Yet, strange to say, the brightest star,
Though single, yet was Mary-ed,
And it was sweet Miss Mary Carr
The palm of honour Carr-ied.
ln London, all King Tawhaio's suite went to
St. Paul's. Prebendary Whittington preached
one of those sound, comfortably orthodox, old-
fashioned sermons, in which the arguments are
divided into heads and sub-heads, and when the
| preacher reaches “twenty-seventhly ” he strikes
the “second application,” and they know he is
j half through. When this vitally religious
{ performance was over, every one of those
j benighted heathen was fast asleep. The Maoris
very soon pick up the manners of civil-
ised society —To-day. Friday, and Saturday, the
; Exhibition Building will be the scene ol a bird
show, including poultry, pigeons, and canaries,
there being over 1000 entries, which make it the
largest ever seen in the colonies. It will be well
worth a visit. The Mayor opens it at 3 o’clock
to-day —On Monday, the N.S.W. Bowing Asso-
ciation are to consider the idea of having an
annual ball— An Oxford end Cambridge dinner is
on the tapis — Agricultural Society at Port Mac-
quarie will hold a ball shortly Sir Walter Scott
Club, Parramatta, held their first social smoke
night last week, in the club rooms A ball to
celebrate the opening of new building for hospital
takes place at Condobolin on Ist August The
“ All at Coventry ” and “ Family Jars.” The club
wants lady amateurs... Next week, a presentation
to Mr. A. A. P. Tighe, (late M.P.) at Wallsend, will
be the occasion of a banquet and social danoe
afterwards—Mr. John Ratcliff, the ilautiat, gave
a unique entertainment In Wagga, lately—a lec-
turc on the history of the flute, accompanied
by illustrations, and it was extremely interest-
ing. He traced from the pipes of Pan to the
English concert flute, which in some of its
notes was almost a duplicate of the human voice,
this he proved by playing airs in which the words
were nearly exactly heard. Madame Pauline Rita
sang, and Broadhurst played accompaniments
The Gunnedah Good Templars celebrated their
ilrst anniversary by a tea, on 34th July, provided
by ladies; then they acted “ Bardoll v. Pickwick,”
and a ball followed, which was kept up till four
o’clock. Good music was engaged... .The annual
ball of the Australian Natives' Association at Bal-
larat took place last month, in the Alfred Hall.
Nearly 800 present, and some very fine toilettes
A return ball last week to the Mayor and Mayoress
of Sandhurst (V.) was very brilliant, and a
present of jewellery was made to the Mayor-
ess. Mr. Bailes, her husband, replied The
fourth annual sports meeting of St. Aloysius’
College, of Bourke-street, Surry Hills, will take
place on Wednesday next, 6th August, and is ex-
citing groat interest among the friends of the
pupils. ..On Saturday night, Mr. R. N. Johnson,
hon. sec. of the Sydney Canary Society, was pre-
sented with a silver tea and coffee set at Beattie’s
Hotel, York-street. by a number of his friends,
Mr. W. Bradley in the chair. A number of speeches
were made, and a considerable quantity of good
liquor concealed during the evening On the end
day of June, a grand ball was given by the
Governor of New Caledonia and his wife, at their
Government House. Noumea. It was a very large
and rather dressy affair, with excellent music A
bachelors’ ball was given in Goulburn on the 320 d
July, in the Mechanics’ Institute; Adcock catored
a supper, and musicians were engaged from Syd
ney. Some beautiful dresses were seen, and for
tout ensemble a local lady beat all competitors
Bingera Amateur Dramatic Club gave a perform-
ance, very suceessiul from a flnancial point of
view. The pieces were “To Paris and Back,” the
“Blossom of Churnington Green,” and “A Lad
from the Country:” and the chief parts were taken
by Dr. Sleeman, Mr. and Mrs. J. Bridgor, Miss E.
Bridger, and Messrs. Wakely, 0. A. Bayley, Powell,
J. Turner, and W. and E. Wearne. Many of the
audience in full dress. Bully for Bingera! The
members of the Emulation Lodge, 8.C., who are
mostly young brethren, intend holding their first
social at the Town Hall on Thursday, 7th August.
The gathering promises to be a pleasant reunion
of members and theirfriends, including, of course,
the divine sex. They are no doubt attracted to
them by a fellowship of craft . One of the best
evenings of the season was passed at the Wool-
lahra Rink last Monday. An abatement of the
wretched weather, and a clear moon, made matters
cheery, and the crisp air gave the best incentive
to hearty exercise There was plenty of that, too,
for the novel gyrations practised resulted in some
wonderful displays of activity, which were not
confined to gentlemen. Even when some thunder-
ous thud shook the floor, it was not always another
?ood man gone down, but perchance some more
ragile skater. Indeed, it is only on such occa-
sions one actually finds out how really substantial
earth’s angels are... Fifth annual dinner of Vic-
torian Chamber of Manufacturers last Monday
night, at Melbourne. . .The Suburban Bicycle Club
are to have a social evening, with dancing, &c.,
soon, probably about the end of August.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Newtown Socials’Ball August I.
Masonic Ball (Penrith) August I.
Sydney Bicycle Club Annual Sports August 3.
Sydney Bicycle Club Ball (West’s
Rooms) August 4.
Buffalo Ball (West’s Rooms) August 5.
Subui ban B.C. Smoke Concert (Rainford’s)..Aug 5.
Reunion of Mutual Imps (Compagnoni’s)... Aug. 7.
Emulation Lodge, E.C. (Town Ha l). . . August 7.
Surrey United C.C. Annual Dinner (Town
Hall, Redfern) August 7.
Masonic Ball (Richmond) Augusts.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nitbedale) August 8.
School of Industry Ball (West’s Rooms).August 13.
Sydney Liedertafel, ladies’ night (Exhibi-
tion) August 14.
Opening of Agricultural Show August 14.
Victoria House Ball (Nithsdale) August 15.
Wooliahra c rivate Assembly (Nithsdale)August 32.
Railway Officers’ Annual Picnic
(Botany) August 37.
St. Vincent’s Ball (Exhibition) September d.
TO CORRESPONDENTS,
“E.W.”: Too late—“ C.B.C”: No interest to
anyone....” W.D.” : Right ...” Spy ” : Too dila-
tory; you observe we had par. in last week
*’ T. W.S.”: Don’t apologise, we’re as wrong as ever
we can be....“ J.M.C.”: Thank you.
The Kalizoie Society in Melbourne is deter-
mined to be up and doing. Stirred by sweet en-
thusiasm for ths beautiful, it girds up its loins and
gets ready to sacrifice its wealth and to fi rt on
the altar of duty. It, therefore, wrot. .aso week
to the Chief-Secretary, and in la- guage t»at
breathed the most guileless simplicity expre sed
the happiness it would feel in layiig out any
money voted by Parliament for purposes of deco-
ration. The Chief-Secretary’s smile when he read
the letter proved that he was still a Liberal, in the
widest sense of the word, about the mouth.
“ Poverty Annihilated and Progress Tri-
umphant" is the modest title of a little pamphlet,
put forward to fill the usual * long-felt" want, by
an Orange district Henry George. Having success-
fully wooed his aboriginal Muse, he leads olf with
a poem headed “ Rich and Poor," in which
“strands"and “ hands,” and " laud, ’ and " bands”
are carried along in a gurgly gurgly sort of metre,
which reminds us of the rippling sounds of a
Kent-street sewer just after llood-time. Of the
two poets, Alexander and Sladen, we like the
former best, because he does occasionally give us
rhyme, even if he fails to give us reason. The
Victorian Milton does neither. Mr. Alexai der is
one of the very few who can successfully balance
a line barely containing eighteen inches with one
which stretches along for a yard and a half; as
for instance, in the glowiDg words which bump
along as follows:
“ Dying and starving day by day
In grimy attic or dank cellar floor—
You ask who are they ? Echo ans wers the London
Poor I”
En pcunant, we may also observe that Mr. Alex-
ander's echo appears to be closely related to Paddy
Burke’s historical phenomenon, which, when
Paddy called out. “How dye do?” used to reply,
“Fai.v, Oim nicely to-day, Misthur Burke, an’
how’s yerself an’all the family?” Dropping the
mood poetic, the Wt stern reformer plunges into
vulgar prose, and sends our First Families to
grass in the first round by branding them as “ a
lot of adv enturers who, in a measure, took advan-
tage of the islanders’ simplicity, and carried land
robbery in one hand and murder and rapine in the
other, and for deeds of brutality received from a
lioentious leader a gift of land that did not belong
to him, but which was given by the Creator to the
people whom tbo Roman and Saxon raider found
enjoying it in the manner the Creator intended.”
From this we infer that the Creator’s original
idea was to have the country peopled by
a crowd of stark naked savages who were
perfectly willing to let the land rip as long as their
supply of ’possums lasted. The strong point of
Mr. Alexander's argument all through seems to
be that, the less land a new chum owns the better
it will be for himself and all conceded. Any man
who starts with a 40 acre lot can manage to make
a living; but the unfortunate lunatic who holds
5000 acres is neither more nor less than a six-
bar elled hair-trigger pauper. One good point
about the Orange seer is that he gives his readers
most valuable information when they don’t know
it, and in some instances this is done so adroitly
that the chances are they never will know it, even
if they live to beat Methusaleh’s celebrated re-
cord. The little brochure will be found invaluable
—tun olurging rat-holes.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We than be glad to have this index potted up by
eeoretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING.
Liverpool J.C . August 2.
Geelong R.C. (Winter) .. August 2.
Jerilderie J.C August 5, 7.
Tattersall’s Club August 6
Goondiwindi Auflust 13.14.
Toowoomba J.C • August 15.
Thargomindah J C August 21, 23.
Hawk*'Bbury R.C. (Spring) August 21, 23.
Victoria Trotting Club August 30.
A.J.C. Spring Aug. 30, Sep. 2. 4.
Clonourry J.C September 3, 4.
Canterbury Park R.C September 13.
Geranium R.C September 17,18.
Liverpool J.o September 20.
Sydney Turf Club September 26.
Victoria Amateur T.C Ootober 11,18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,16.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C November 9.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19,20,21.
Narandera T.C.... . November 27.38.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 37, 28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) Januarv 1
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1*
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28, March 5, V
COURSING.
VJotoria Club August 21, 22,
AQUATIC.
M. Annual Regatta, Parramatta R... .August 9.
Hanlan v. Beach, Parramatta River.... August 16
Matterson v. Edwards. .August 23.
T. Duley v. J. Massey, lUawarra Lake. .August 27.
ATHLETICS.
Cooma Sheffield Handiosp August 1.
A. Farrell v. C. Warne, 125yds August 2.
Trim v. Daly. 150yds., Armidale Augusts
T. M. Malone v. Frank Arnold, 175yds ...August 12.
P. Duffy v. H. Stanton, 100yds., Hammond’s
Flat August 19.
J. Mole v. W. Neddrie, 100yds., Muswell-
brook— August 23.
J. Mould v. W. Weddive, 150yds August 24.
Sir Joseph Banks Sheffield Handicap.... September.
Eastern Suburbs A.A.C. Sports Sept. 6.
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
CYCLING.
Sydney B.C. Race Meeting August 2.
Sydney B.C Club events August 9.
N. Union Race Meeting August 30.
SPORTING AND ATELETIG MEMS.
Lord Wilton has been purchased by C.
Ellis for 500 guineas.
How to make a slow horse fast: Tie him
up to a fence, of course.
Mr. John Crozier’s oolt Illusion, by Coun-
tryman from Deceptive, which cost him 800 gs.,
diod recently near Adelaide.
Messrs. A. Crossman and A. E. Bigg, of
Armidale, defeated A. H. Richardson and W. J.
Galloway, of Uralla, in a rifle match.
At Ashburton, N.Z., J. M'Farlane defeated
J. O’Connor in a quarter-mile hurdle race. The
time was given as <sii seconds, the best on record
in Maoriland.
According to Life inT London,
there was every probability of a match being ar-
ranged between Bubear and Largan for £3OO
a side, to be rowed last Monday.
Ned. is taking time by the forelock this
time. He says he looks forward to the Beach race
as the hardest he ever rowed in his life. Ned., as
a rule, waits till after a race to say it was the
effort of his life.
It is said that if Hanlau gives Beach his
sago, Clifford will next tackle the Champion On
this oooasion we shall hire our own steamboat,
and charge 10s. a passenger. We oau’t expect to
be novices at this game for ever.
Mr. Frank Reynolds has purchased from
Mr. G. G. Stead, the New Zealand sportsman, the j
M noddle, aided Ay Au ?r//e etfienme nts
'at hone tttSA fee /yjn 9 . u/>. test
TVanr/cstat-rvn.'S Aey/n at on.ce, f
and of a ftart/rns mature 7*.*/ cne.
' Y'h e <Sccznc« oder.
?A,e ?n.eciiU>n- 13
fa/f fi? ant>e Zbrije?}
C,S les* he *nccy.
J)odsworth jll,
/ Dottle K C n C- mSW,
J‘/due ctrcZor of /nv'esti - n j
gaitOTj.. reyi/eyls ro Ae 'll ill
Sho-Hsn. IA-e materialized /M
/<sf>trtf of, an Gnces/or\ "M
/ rs astrt&y^
Ti* fio/-essor Jf J read aright dir ffiejbam in your*
duA/ec/. tooth in h,s/>ead tteae twenty CorrecF
v\
Baldwin and The Black Art.
j plend i* ur t Splendour is by Bpeculum from
and when he won the Payne Stakes in
England, he defeated such good metal as Ladlslas.
Bonny Jean, and Osslan. ’
The yokels rolled up in grand style for the
Sackville Reach Regatta on Thursday last. H
Hannabuswon the “amateur” single sculls: and
Solomon, who at one time was considered no pick-
up in a light skiff, played a very bad second fiddle
to Kemp in their matoh for a stated £lOO.
At Wellington, on 26th July, the handicap
pigeon resulted in Messrs. Rotton and Kearney
dividing first and second money, and E. Cousins
and E. Nathan dividing third money. The match
was virtually a trial of skill between Dubbo and
Orange distnete. and, although Dubbo was con-
sidered to have the best chance, Orange carried all
Derore it.
“The match between Pearce and Rey-
nolds should prove a close contest,” says the Town
and Country If our memory serves us aright,
Pearce has defeated * Black Charley,” carrying a
big handicap; so we cannot see where the close
race comes in, as the men on this occasion will pull
L 6 ™ 1 ; Pearce, in anything like condition, should
row over the darkey.
horses are having a remarkably
rosy tune of it across the border just at present.
t . he v, winner of the recent Grand
National Steeplechase, was at one time employed
hauling a trap for Dr. Blandford, of Warrnambool
?her«^Vf V a e i7 + °Y D< r of a , bu wy Rosinante over
there is afraid to look crooked at his hat-raek for
fan! of s P°ih D 8' ha ohance for the next groat stick
From the strain of the New Zealand
papers, it is not at all likely the publio will sub-
scribe the £250 necessary to settle the exhibition
between Hearn and Hanlan. They consider £250
rather muoh for the excitement of seeing Hanlan
row in front of Hearn for somethin? under half
an hour. In fact, they think the £250 wotild be
Hearned rather too easily.
Says a N.Z. paper“Taiaroa, I under-
stand, has decided to terminate his football career
and rest content with the many laurels he has
gained in interprovinoial contests, and lately with
the New Zealand representatives in New South
Wales. Though still young in years, he can well
afford to rest on his oars, for there are very few
footballers, either at home or abroad, who can
claim suoh a brilliant record at so early a period in
their lives.”
The Albury and Wagga footballers have
“ got the needle.” They fully expected one repre-
sentative at least from either of their teams would
have been selected to worry the Queenslanders on
the Banana men’s native heather, but they have
been ignored, and they propose to take their re-
venge by giving the team picked for the tour a
holy drubbing before they start. In this connec-
tion they are taking steps to arrange a match.
Their tongues may Wagg-a different tune after
the termination of the match.
Weiss and G. Ellis recently played a bil-
liard match at Hastings, N.Z., the latter receiving
500 points in a game of 1000 up. Weiss succeeded
in putting together 600 points while Ellis made 163,
and the former won the game by 847. Weiss’ best
breaks were 85, 76, 63, 56 (13 spot strokes), 53, 50
an !l eight spot strokes respectively), 44, 40.
40, 40, 37, 35, and 34. It was mooted, some time
since, that Weiss should be sent home to England.
”, A gay time he would have with Peall,
of 1989 notoriety, not to speak of the champion.
The Wallaroo-Redfern football match re-
sulted in a win for the Wallaroos, by eleven
points to seven. Harry Fligg obtained two tries,
Baylis a single, and Baird kicked a goal. William-
son and Gilbert obtained a try each, for Redfern
from one of which Williamson kicke 1 a goal.
Oxley, Graham, Fligg and Butler were the shining
lights on the winning side, and Williamson, Gil-
bert, Walker, and Warren were the most pro-
minent for the losers. The Wallaroos have, up to
date, an unbeaten record for the season, and stand
best show for the Cup.
According to the New York Clipper, an
apparatus for registering the speed of horses has
been invented by Thomas Ackley, of Warren, o.
It is called a speed indicator, and looks something
like a watch, with a diameter of 3in. It can be
attached to a sulky shaft, and started or stopped
by the driver's foot. There are two hands on the
dial. One registers 40 seconds in one revolution,
rhe other, a curved hand, is worked with ingeni-
ous machinery by the right wheel of the sulky,
and makes one revolution when the sulky goes
one mile. By a system of lines and figures on the
dial, the exact rate of speed is shown.
At Bur wood, on Saturday last, the local
footballers raked together a first-class team and
put the University men through their facings by
seven points to nil. The passing of the winners
waa better than usual, and C. Robberds played
with great dash, obtaining the only two tries made
during 1 the afternoon’s play. The Burwood Club
has received a big addition to its ranks in the Der-
son of Braddon, the late crack New Zealand back
who obtained a goal from Robberds’ second trv’
Percy Chapman was entrusted with the kick riff
the first try, but failed to negotiate a goal. The
w;m was an important one for the Suburbans as if
gives them a show for the Cup. 1
Dinnie and Victor are still carrying on a
paper warfare. The big Scotchman offers to throw
the versatile little Frenchman sixty times in as
many minutes, but a man of Dinnie’s calibre
should be ashamed to offer to wrestle a man of
v ictor 8 size, on any terms. Victor, however is
not to be denied, and has offered to compete
against the Scotchman for £25 aside at the follow-
mg exercises Wrestling (Graeco-Roman style)
scientific boxing, heavy-weight exercise, foil an<f
smglestiok fencing; the one gaining the most
exercises to be declared the winner.” Victor has
planked a £lO deposit, which looks more like busi-
ness than Dinnie s ridiculous offers to wrestle for
£590 aside.
People are (getting a hazy idea now that
horse races in England are got up solely for the
benefit and pleasure of the “Tinman.” Taking
the last Spring Meeting as a sample, there appears
to be good grounds for this opinion, as on the first
day Archer rode Sir Reginald in the Ail Aged, and
won; sister to Kincardine in the Sweepstakes, and
won; andKeirin the Spring Handicap, and won
On the second day—Helicon in the Selling Plate"
and won; Lowerclnth in the Guineas, and won :
and Insignia in the Two-year-old Stakes, and won’
In three other events he was placed, and then he
generously withdrew, in order to give the rest of
the boys a chance to earn enough to pay for their
passage homewards.
Says Bell’s Life:—“A capital start has
been made by the Gentlemen of Philadelphia in
their British tour, as, after playing a drawn match
against Dublin University last Monday and Tues-
day, they have lowered the colours of the Gentle-
'reland, who put a fairly strong eleven
into the field, by six wickets. Of course, until
they are pitted against an eloven whoso strength
is better known, it is almost impossible to form an
estimate of their real power: but, from all ac-
counts, their batting and bowling appear to be
above the average, whilst in the field they are un-
doubtedly smart." So far, we have not heard on
what terms the Gentlemen of Philadelphia are
working the ga' e-money.
Sir Richard Sutton’s 80-tonner, Genesta,
still retains her reputation in English waters as
being a flyer of the first flight. She won the an-
nual match under the auspices of the Boyal
Thames Yacht Club, over a course from the Nore
to Dover, defeating the Vandura, cutter, 89 tons,
Rrycina, cutter. 90 tons,! Marjorie, cutter, 68 tons,
Tara, cutter, 40 tons, Norman, Gutter, 37 tons,
Miranda, schooner. 123 tons. Lorna, yaw), 85 tons.
Snowfleck, yawl. 20 tons The yachts finished—
Genesta (winner) sh. 39min., Vanduara sb. 56min
Lorna (2nd prize! 6h. Omin. 25sec., Majorie (third
prize) 6h. lmin. sseo. The Genesta had to allow
the Lorna aud Marjorie 4min. slsec., and the Van-
duara to allow the Lorna and Marjorie Bmin. lsec.
The Genesta also won an Important match in con-
nection with the Royal Harwich Yacht Club.
Who the inventive genius was who first
1 thought of running, riding, aud carrying bicycle


races, we are not aware; nor do we feel inclined to
go to the trouble of looking him up. But were
we standing in Mr. R. Shute’s number twelves, we
should feel ourselves in duty bound to place the
matter in Mr. Cubitt’s hands, with the idea of
tracing the framer of these particular races, and
at least “whacking” the many trophies he has
been the means of giving the genial Richard such
a “ throw in ” for. To see Richard so often follow
the precedent laid down by “ Eclipse “ Richard
first, and the rest nowhere,”—is beginning to grow
a little monotonous; and unless the next Medley
race is a handicap, we shall begin to think these
races are placed on the card especially for the
benefit of the captain of the Suburban Club.
The Nooze man Was, as usual, a long way
behind the’times when he gave out that C. W. Ben-
nett had made three records at the recent Bal-
main-Burwood bicycle meeting. Bennett’s mile in
3min. 13sec. on a cinder path is a long way behind
A. Lee’s reoord on grass, 3min. 13sec., taking into
consideration the relative condition of the tracks,
and that Lee rode a special club which weighed
pretty well twice as much as the machine Bennett
straddled. Rennet.t is then credited with a record
for 3 miles, lOmin. 29J4sec„ but perhaps the Nooze
man was not in the colony on the 34th May, 1883,
when Lee, on the Association Ground, won the 3
miles from scratch in lOmin. Oisec—only 30 seconds
quicker on a vastly inferior track. As for the
tricycle record, 3min. 55sec., we reckon it can be
upset every day in the week by more than one
Sydney rider.
Waroo was the scene of some pigeon
glaughteron 19th July, when C. Jenkins, sen., killed
his five birds and pocketed the doubloons. Messrs,
uoddsand Duffy then shota two-bird match for
half a dozen of fizz , but as Harry’s average Hast
season was one tail for 543 shots and Duffy's was a
shade less, it was not expected they would make
much of a show of the dual shots. And the spec-
tators were not disappointed, for, after firing some
twenty rounds without a hit, the pair agreed to
decide the wager by seeing who was best man at
a hornpipe. Harry Dodds has plenty of foot—any-
one stepping within a radius of three feet of him
might think he had a little too much if he hap-
pened to drop his number eighteens on a pet
bunion—so it was not to be wondered that he
danced his man down in something under a quarter
of an hour. More slaughter of the innocents is
talked of at Waroo.
A CONFUSION OF SENSES.
VISITORS TO THE PROMENADE CONCERT, AT THE TOWN HALL, ONE NIGHT
LAST WEEK, MUST HAVE NOTICED AN ELDERLY PARTY ENJOYING THE
MUSIC BY THE AID OF AN OPERA-GLASS.
IT OCCURRED TO OUR ARTIST, THAT IF ONE ONL Y CAME PROPERLY EQUIPPED TO
THESE PLACES, THE FULL ENJOYMENT OF ALL THE ATTRACTIONS MIGHT BE
GREATLY ENHANCED. BY THE AID OF AN KARLTRUMPET, FOR INSTANCE, ONE
MIGHT DISCOVER NEW BEAUTIES IN THE PICTURES.
(We cannot but suspect that our artist's own senses must have got slightly confused. We shall keep an eye upon Mm.— Ed,)
The recent pleasant little race meeting at
Liverpool was within an ace of being the scene of
a desperate, perhaps fatal, encounter between a
well-known steeplechase-rider and a still more
popular sporting scribe. It appears the latter
found fault with the former’s riding, and the pig-
skin straddler retaliated by advising the news-
paper man to go home and put his raven locks in
curl papers. This so enraged the tipster that he
began to hop round like a hen on hot ashes, and
earnestly implored the spectators to hold his hat
while he wiped the paddock with the back of his
lnsulter’s head. This game went on for about 20
minutes, until some one proposed to make a ring
and let them have it out, upon which the belli-
gerent pair cooled down at once, and began to
take a wonderful interest in the time the next
train left for Sydney. Fogarty’s catering was all
that could be desired—in fact, a trifle more so.
Sunday last was a gala day up the River,
and never before has the old Parramatta, in one
day, carried on its bosom so many sculling lumina-
ries, both professional and amateur. Beach was
there, and covered the full course in slashing
style, rowing in better form than we had ever seen
him perform before. Matterson did a good row,
and “ Black Charley ” went through a really first-
class performance, so far as style was concerned,
In a light skiff. bast, but not least, Hanlan fully
extended himself in a mile spin with the Swan.
The champion rowed 36 or 37strokes a minute, and,
from the magnificent row done by him, it is evident
he has no intention of hoodwinking the general
public as to what IPs wonderful powers really are.
We had heard the champion grunted whea rowing
hard, and put it down to one of the many yarns
going the rounds about him. But on Suuday he
grunted in a most unmistakeable manner, some
thing after the style of a quarryman using a
sledge hammer, and loud enough to be heard
above the no mean swish of his sculls, and the
wash of the steamer.
The amateur sculling championship is
becoming a big goak in more ways than one. By
p rformances, Fittes, of Victoria, has certainly
proved himself best man, but we do not venture
an opinion as to who holds the championship—if
there is such a thing—as we do not feel inclined to
risk a passage of arms with “Visor,” of the Aits
Tralasian, and still less with his peppery bite
noir, “Typhoid,” of the Sydney Mail. Hanlan's
example has been followed by the amateurs with
regard to stakes—we beg their pardon—trophies,
and we noticed it stated in an evening paper last
week that a certain Sydney amateur will not row
for less than a trophy value £lOO. Such terms are
prohibitive to nine amateurs out of ten, unless
backed up by betting men, and, if such is the case,
what are the odds that the century is invested in a
trophy ? These races for the so-called amateur
championship canuot be controlled, but the Row-
ing Association and regatta committees would do
well to insist upon the production of trophies
which they have an idea are mythical, before
accepting for their races entrances they are doubt-
ful about. We guess action of this sort would very
shortly add to the professional roll, to the big gain
of the hona fide amateurs.
The Sydney Bicycle Club are not sparing
trouble to make next Saturday’s sports a big
success, and they are to be congratulated on the
liberal spirit shown by them in their preparations.
It is not altogether a pleasant job raking up old
sores, but taking into consideration the fiasco
which attended the mile champion race at their
August meeting last year, they might have waived
the condition that six starters shall face the
scratch for the one and ten miles’ championships,
or no race. It is not likely we shall have a repeti-
tion of last year’s affair (or, at least, it is to be
hoped so), for it would certainly b« rough on Vic-
torian riders to come over here, train for a race,
and at the eleventh hour find only five men at the
scratch. Unlikely as it Is such a thing will happen
on Saturday next, we can hardly see the necessity
for leaving such a contingency on the cards.
Every sporting man in the land should
road this, ’and then go behind a fence and blush
for his sex until the glow on his cheeks sets fire to
the collar on his shirt. It is the literal copy of a
letter sent to “ Augur” of the London Sporting
Life, touching the vexed question of the pedigree
of the Derby crack, St. Gatien, and it joggles along
in this wise:—“Mr Augur Sir a few weeks ago
you were aluding to the sire of St. Gatien Rother-
hill or the Rover and I quite agree with you
regarding which is the right one as he is the very
image of the Rover and as you will probbley make
a few remarks about it i have sported a penny to
toll you what little i know about it. He fetched
over 3000 as a yearling but could not be trained as
he had a leg and was sold for almost a song to
Mr Bonella the Red Cow Richmond which he is
the proprietor of now he ran him in a hunters flat
race at Brighton but his leg got so bad that he had
him to is place at Richmond and he covered several
mares their at 5£ a mare and he was foe sale some-
time before ha was sold for 50£ to go to ierland
he was putun for sale a few weeks ago and bought
in for 500—Your Res R.W.” Now, who do you
think wrote that choicely-worded epistle ? Neddy
Green the oostermonger, or Bill Sykes the burglar ?
Not exactly. It comes from one of England’s lead-
ing sporting baronets—a genius, who, like many
more of his titled tribe, has a hand better fitted for
wielding a dung-fork than a “ Magnum Bnnum.”
“Our Boys” are getting hot eoffee from
the English Pres 3 over taking all the gate money
at Lord’s; but, happy as we are to have a slap at
them ourselves, we can’t sit by calmly and see the
darned Britishers poking “ borak ”at them. With
regard to the match in question, it was arranged
beforehand that the Australians were to have the
whole of the gate money; in fact, it is doubtful if
the Australians would have gone to England at all
on other terms, as they relied on that match to
make a certainty of their expenses. With all other
matches they only take a percentage of the gate;
and there is no doubt the English cricketers make
twice as much as the colonials out of tho tour. It
is not likely the Australians can pay their own ex-
penses for such a trip, and how in the name of
thunder are they to manage if not on gate money.
No English club has ever offered to find their ex-
penses. as was done by the Melbourne Club for
Lord Harris’s team; and a nice mess the Melbour-
nians made of it. They were out of pocket fully
£OOO, the wipe bill alone of the aristocrats coming
to more than they cleared in Australia. Had
an English club suffered in such a manner by a
colonial team, they would have cried a poor mouth
through the press for all time. And, coming
nearer home, it is amusing to And the turn our
cricket enthusiasts have taken since the collapse
of tile fourth Australian Eleven in the second test
match with All-England. With regard to the first
big match, the majority of sporting scribes and
the general public worked it out that the Austra-
lians bad all the best of the draw, but, in our
opinion, it was extremely doubtful, taking one
consideration with another, if they could have
made enough runs, had the match been played
out, even to win it, without winning hands down,
as they would have had to do to to justify the
enthusiasts in their idea that the draw was so
much in the Australian’s favour. Immediately
after their collapse, however, it is discovered a big
mistake was made in sending home so few men,
presumably to save money, and that such a used
up team coHld not be considered a representative
Australian one. So far, we are not aware, that the
fourth Australian Eleven went homo with the idea
oi bemg a representative team. They went purely
with the idea of making money; and if the Aus-
tralian press and public, before the match, ac-
knowledged as their representatives a team who, a
tew weeks previously, went into the field like a
team of hospital patients, they should now take
their gruel like men. The Melbourne Sports-
man, in particular, contends that more men should
have gone home, and hopes “that the present is
the last or the purely gate-money teams of cric-
keters which will visit the old world.’ We have
not heard how much the Melbourne Sportsman
contributed towards the trip; but it was no doubt
something handsome, as they feel so hurt over the
small number of men who went home. The Aus-
tralians are playing against time, and shovelling in
the dollars as fast as possible, as they are perfectly
justified in doing, considering that the loss, if any,
will be theirs, the same as the gain. As we said
before, it is the fault of the Australian press and
people, not theirs, if they are looked upon as
amateurs and Australian representatives.
The Goulburn Southern Argus is a gor-
geous journal. Especially gorgeous is it in its
verse. In a late issue there is a poem of the
sombre and mysterious elass, headed “ Your Vic-
tim’s Sad Talc,” and dedicated to somebody whose
name is mercifully omitted. Listen :
“ ’Tis midnight. Hark ! a noise indistinctly falls
upon mine ear;
What is it ? Do I dream; and why exhibit fear ?
I know not, but listen to that oft-repeated
sound,
To endeavour its nature to fathom, its meaning to
expound.”
What was it ? But, of course, you have guessed—
the cat coughing upon the roof. You are wrong,
though. Neither was it burglar nor a hen-roost
brigand, it comes back the next night
“Again the midnight hour arrives I Submissive
I must be, ♦
To undergo the awful penance now in store for
me.
Fantastic forms lilt by me, whispering dreadful
words of woe,
Shall such anguish last much longer while I’m ex-
isting here below ?”
You see, now ? It was only the old drunk.
A few weeks ago, a chosen band of fire-
eating Wellington citizens, thirsting for glory or
the grave, formed themselves into a Volunteer
corps, to the intense discomfiture and annoyance
of Bismarck, the Mahdi, and the whole of Eng-
land’s foes in general. Last Monday, one of these
noble fall-backs was sunning himself in front of
the Royal, when the proprietor sauntered out and
observed: “Hello, Garnet Wolseley, old man; how
is it you only polish the toes of your boots and
leave the heels liko mudbunks ? ’ “ Be-cauae,”
said the little hero, proudly, “a brave main never
looks behind. Want a mate t' join you in a
liquor ?”
There is a Mutual Improvement Society at
Gunning. The members gave a rigadoon lately,
the chief intellectual features of which were
mutton sandwiches and tarts. This is the first
society of the kind we could ever genuinely
sympathise with. In the days of our golden youth
we belonged to one ourselves. The chief thing we
remember about it is that there always used to be
a fine fight when it came to the election of a Prime
Minister, and that the leading debater in the
society weighed about fourteen stone and placed
the peroration to his speeches mostly between the
eyes of whoever was arguing against him We
have seen similar things in graver assembles since
them.
Do not smile at this, because it is written
with a sorrowful pen. A correspondent, who says
that he is an old man, sends us some verses It is
a melancholy ambition, at any time, t.hii of being
a poet; but, when it seizes upon the aged, it is
truly “a grief too deep for tears.” Yet this am-
bition is very common; and the older the man, the
vainer he is of his verse. We can imagine the joy
there was among hia descendants when Methuselah
died. You can pieture the old patriarch cornering
his son Lamech for a couple of years to read him
“a little thing of his own” about nine million
verses in length. It makes us shudder. Yes, this
propensity to rhyme is a fearful visitation. Even
the terrors of death are insufficient to scare people
from dropping into poetry. The walls of dungeons I
are melancholy proof of this A felon with the I
horror of the gallows hanging over him, can yet
scrawl dolorous doggerel on his prison walls with 1
a stylus made out ol the handle of his bucket.
We boarded once with a reprieved murderer,
so we speak with sufficient authority on this point.
We have known grave and reverend seniors whose
lightest words were oracles, and who were looked
upon as monuments of common sense, who yet
wrote verses in secret, and wore as bashful about
them as a love-siok boy. One such case we re-
member in particular. We were at that time
editing- a paper more noted for the breadth of its
views on international politics than for the number
of advertisements it contained. This was in Vic-
toria. One day, as we sat in the sanctum, toying
with a pewter and meditating a philippic against
Disraeli (now in the bosom of Abraham), a thick-
set, grey-haired man came shyly into the office and
enquired for the editor. The satellite—a boy who
has since become a successful journalist, and who
was then rapidly acquiring press experience by
going to and fro from the nearest pub. with a
beer-jug—showed him into the sanctum. After a
word or two about the weather, the grey-haired
man coughed oonfusedly, and drew out a roll of
manuscript. “It’s a poem,” he murmured, apolo-
getically; and, after another confused cough, he
said if w« had no objection he would like to read
it to us. We sent the jug out again, groped in the
corners of our pockets, and, finding some tobacco-
dust mingled with wool, filled our clay and
signified to him that we were prepared for
the worst. The jug had come in by this timo, and
we passed it over to him. He drained it in an
absent-minded manner, and began. The poem was
about a “dark-eyed maid ” (the gay old dogl) who,
it subsequently appeared, “in the cold grave was
laid,” which fact, we regretted to learn, “ over his
life had cast a shade.” The tone of the poem was
gloomy in the extreme, and he read it in a mono-
tonous fing-song, with a broad Scotch accent,
which made the gloom even deeper. The burden
was to the effect that he was a broken-hearted
man, whose hopes were for ever blasted. We sent
the jug out again. Then he asked us if we could
publish the trifle. It would have filled two issues,
bo we diplomatised. It was sad stuff, but he seemed
to have his heart so much set upon it, that we did
not care to treat It with raillery. We told him
that it would be an injustice to the public and to
himself to publish his poem in such an obscure
journal as ours. We advised him to send it to one
of the English magazines or better still, to have it
printed on neat slips, which we could do for him
at a reasonable rate, and send it to his friends and
the discriminating few who could appreciate
such things at their proper value. He took
our advice, and we took the money. This grey-
haired man, who was broken-hearted for a dark-
j eyed maid (for a broken-hearted man he could
drain* jug in the most dexterous style we have
ever seen), was once a Minister of Mines in the
Victorian Government, and while holding that
office was especially no. v «d for his hard-headed
sense and shrewd Scotch policy. This is a simple
tact, and by no means an astonishing one. We
have met many a similar .tase since then. How
many - affecting, though rugged stanzas have we
not received from ancient spinsters who, in
ordinary life, were not sufficiently amiable com-
pany lor a cat! How many, too, from elderly
men—Odes to Generosity, and s o forth—who never
gave a penny to a beggar in their lives unless
somebody was looking at them! They leave their
virtues to come out in verse, ft is a cheap plan.
But we are nearly forgetting our own venerable
bard. As his verses are not quit e bad, and not
many, we will print them to pleas* him, with the
clear stipulation that he must SiVid no more.
.Listen to the voice of age:—
SEA-SIDE SHEDLS.
"When but a child in native land
Upon the beach I loved to roam.#
And seek for shells upon the straiM
Where roll’d the oceau near my l*o
And now I’m on the beach again
But not upon my native shore,’
The hope, indeed, were almost vain,
I ne er may gather shells there
The mind’s eye views the buried past
xr - iu 6 ’ whll ® ocean round me swells.
iff® was cast
When first I sought for sea-side shells.
Li . f ®’ B , mor ning then was clear and bright.
t i' ® venln sr shows a different glow,
I feel the near approach of night.
But seek for sea-side shells e'en now.
Ah well, those shells were childhood’s toys-
,mVn which e en age with pleasure dwells
Tis one of youth's still cherished joys, ’
Seeking for the sea-side shells.
3 ° , ® i ’frould think it rather a poor game for an old
man to be wandering about the beach piekina un
*beil«. But, perhaps, if the truth wore known he
waa ** a *'chmg for oysters. No matter- we have
searched for oysters ourselves, and found oniv thf
-the half-shells. This is a type of life. Adieu t
man, *nd may Heaven bless you, and keen'von
from the temptations of verse J p y9u


F
UK NIT D El SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY ' r > WTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and streets, Bydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
LIBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; w«ll worthy of
inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINET* for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand.
SOME STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SHTES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-Pound bedroom suiTEs.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, waahstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Conneil-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft, with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAN D, with marble ton
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEV, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITI)RE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d. ; Dining Tabl-s. from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. Cd.;
Chest of Drawers, from 40s ; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 30s ; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3 10s.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 60s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
£
OQK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
pWOO strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &e.
O
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
(PConnell-street.
EAS CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
nfver hitherto exhibited in Sydney.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHALRS.-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES,
ces, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
I)
Pric
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Verv handv and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room-sidf-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON. TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-street.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
sorew, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
jELF-ADJUSTING hammock CHAIL-
Patented.
D
'A
This chair adjusts Itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. Tim above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches In thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAM I t (only).
AGATEtLK BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWToN, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’f ’onnell-streets.
B
B
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black ai,d bras
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lam
EDsTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowe
prices. B-adley, Newton, ana Lamb.
i>LDDING.—AII descriptions at lowest rate
J 3 BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Coi
nell uni Spring streeis
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, Irom 255. eac
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAl; LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. O’Connell-street.
B
ENT WOOD FURNITURE.—A very eomplet*
Assortment: beat make, lew eat prices.
SOCIATY
St. Jude’s Church, Raudwick, was well
filled, on July 23nd, with interested spectators of a
pretty wedding ceremony. The bridegroom, Rev .
It. Heflernan, was a N.Z. cl ergyman
oopaliaa Cburch, and the bride was Miss Annie
Downe, the daughter of Mr. George Downe, of
the Government Tramway Department, in which
he holds the position of superintendent of rolling
stock. Four bridesmaids —Misses Eveline Downe
Spray, Hegarty, and Whiddon-were attired ip,
cream India muslin, trimmed with pink and blue
satin, head-dresses to match; and the bride s dress
was a very handscme one of cream brocade bodice
and skirt of satin de lyon, decked with lace. Ibe
trimmings on the long satin train were festooned,
and the draping of it most gracefully arranged.
After the bridegroom’s brother, the Rev. T. J.
Heffornan, had made him as happy as the novelty
of the occasion would permi', the party adjourned
to the residence of Mr. Downe, and breakfasted,
and the two chief objects of the day s interest
then started for Blackneath, sent off with a volley
of good wishes from all. In the evening, the
parents of the bride gave a most enjoyable ball.
• * *
Preparations are being pushed on for the
annual St. Vincent’s Hall, which, this year, will be
an evening dress affair. A number of leading men
are supporting it; and, indeed, for such an object,
everyone should do so. Messrs. A. J. Brady and W.
M. M'Carthy are the honorary secretaries, as of
yore, and the date is Wednesday, 3rd September,
in the Exhibition.
• •
Next Tuesday, the Royal Antediluvian
Order of Buffaloes (N.». W. Constitution) hold their
second annual ball, plain and fanoy, at Leigh
House. Kopff and Austin’s band is to p av.
Although the title of the Order is so ineffably
grand, tickets are only a guinea, and as their motto
Is sociality, they are bound to render the ball as
pleasant as they can.
Another complimentary concert was
given by the Lytton Club, on Friday night, in the
Protestant Hall, which was comfortably filled, the
audience being in evening dress. Most of the ac-
companying was done by Miss Stella Lovett and
Miss Sheridan Reid, the latter also singing Pinsuti s
ballad, “ A voice that is still,” expressively.
Eighteen items were on the programme ; Messrs.
J. M. Callaghan, C. Leplastner, W. G. Baumann,
E. A.Foxall, and Jeff reson, each had a solo, and the
last named sang with Mr. Booth, Halles duet “ Ex-
oelsior.” In “The King’s Champion,” Mr. Bopth
was warmly applauded. In reciting “Nellies
Prayer," Mr. B. Palmer introduced one more
of the many fine recitable pieces of G. R. Sims
which, we are glad to see are becoming appreci-
ated. It is curious that so many elocutionists din
away at indifferent or hackneyed composition*
when there is such a mine of resource in
modern writers, who only require to be
looked up. Many young reciters seem to
imagine it would be high treason to look outside
of Bell’s Speaker for anything to recite, or if they
do go further, they pitch on some splendid thing
of Shakespeare’s utterly beyond their powers, and
spoil the grand conceptions of the writer for all
time by not even pronouncing his consonants.
Mr. Palmer often strikes out on a new line, and
generally gets something good. “ Nellie’s Prayer ”
is not his best choice, but it was well given, and
with an earnest sympathy that enabled all to feel
the tenderness and the power of DagOnet’s pas-
sionate verse. In Miss Mitford’s “ Rienzi s Ad-
dress,” Mr. C. Teece chose a piece tolerably well-
known, spoke it out with boldness, and was
clapped approvingly. Nevertheless, the emphasis
was not distributed cleverly, and the applause of
the audienoe spoke more for Mr. Teece’s popu-
larity than their own discernment. Miss Shipway
sang "Morn and Meadow,” and “Fly forth, O
gentle Dove,” with placid ease; and Mr. Cooper
gave a clarionet solo. Miss A. A. Edwards played
two piano solos. Miss Nellie Harbin’s song,
“Under the British Flag,” was a hash of such
foolish words and cockney rhymes that we at once
looked for the author’s name. It was not
given ; and that was the most sensible thing
about the song. Yet, bad as the song itself was,
the singer almost made amends. We must try
and be calm; but we believe people would applaud
anything if Nellie Harbin sang it. She is very
young, with pretty ways and clear childish voice,
and you can hear every word distinctly. Who-
ever trained Miss Nellie, both in manners and
music, deserves credit, for the pupil earns it.
Recalls were vetoed; but later, when Miss Harbin
sang “The Vacant Chair" so sweetly, it was no
use trying to keep the rule, and she had to come
on with a repeat verse. Then some ladies, not
having a bouquet at hand, took the flowers from
their own shoul lers and threw to her. Those
flowers were worth more than a bouquet bought
in the market. Another very successful singer
was Miss Embleton, who came on in the daintiest
“ Mary Anderson,” all white, except a large bunch
of pelargoniums on the shoulder, and sang “ Oh,
how delightful”—and so it was. Again the rule
was broken, and after a lengthy struggle between
the audience and the edict of “no encores,” the
white “ Mary Anderson ” again appeared, and Miss
Embleton gave the naive little ditty, “ Coming
through the Rye.” Perhaps her singing was not
the only charm that gained the lady such a decided
teioore.
The next concert of the Sydney Lieder-
tafel will be the most ambitious effort it has yet
undertaken. It will take place in the Exhibition
Building on Thursday night, 14th August, when
Mendelssohn’s “ Antigone ” will be produced with
all the power of the society, under conductor
Vogrichs direction. Mr. J. H. Rainford is en-
trusted with the interlocutory readings. There
will be no division of subscribers on this occasion
into A and B sections, as the accommodation whl
be sufficient not only for all members, but to allow
of a number of extra tickets being issued to
friends. The oream of Sydney musical society is
sure to be present, and as a large part of the audi-
ence will be ladies, the toilet show will, no doubt,
bo an unusually handsome one.
# * *
Lodge Fidelity, No. 1979, E.C., had a social
evening in York-street Masonic Hall last week.
.Nearly 300 present, and the hall well prepared with
banners, masonic emblems, &c. It was little dif-
ferent from a ball, except that a concert came
first, which should have commenced at 8 o’clock,
but didn’t, because the people omitted to come.
They never will come punctually to such affairs.
We have seen it tried by Oddfellows, Masons,
Owls, and even by ordinary human beings who
don't belong to those exalted orders, and when-
ever there was a dance to follow, the audience
always held back for the dance. It is discouraging
to those who perform. Some have tried to meet
the difficulty by having the songs interspersed
among the dances. On this occasion, the Fidelities
presented a capitally varied programme - and
variety is a great ensurer of success—which was
run through rapidly. Mr. L. De Groen led off
with a rattling piano piece. Bro. Mueklestone re
oited “The Charge of the Light Brigade:’’ he was
in full uniform, and used his very powerful voice
to its utmost, the effect being intensified by bugle
calls at intervals. It was a most spirited rendering.
Mr. F. Jones gave two comic songs. They were
more comic than melodious, and rather clever,
only not so comic-as they would have been if wo
had heard what they were about. We could not
hear probably because thet e was something
wrong with the hall, or the air, or something.
Miss Shipway, who smiled above a nicely con-
structed mass of black broche, gave “A dairymaid
am i” very nicely. Two basso songs were “My
iiream.” by Herr Yon Sandon, and Boys of the
0 d Brigade,” by Mr Summers Brown, both capital
issOoombes sang “ Waiting;,” and either her song
or her dark eyes and expressive face gained warm
applause. Others on the list were Messrs. Ireland,
Jvfmey, C. Lemaire on the saxophone, Callaghan,
Master Beattie and Misa Chapman, in songs. Bio
T. hi. Geddes recited “The Little Vulgar Boy.”
and it was rather a relief when he had done with
him. Punctually at 10, chairs were removed, and
a programme of 18 dances commenced, swelled by
a number of extias, the Masoi.io quadrille coming
exactly at midnight. Hall’s band was engaged for
the evening, and played well. Refreshments were
well supplied by Bro. Moon, and civilly served.
The Masons wore their regalia, Professor Hughes
(the mus cian) being most gloriously decked with
medals. At first the floor was crowded, and many
went up in the gallery to look on, but there was
an element of cheerfulness prevalent which led
the dancers to forgive those that trespassed
against them in the matter of floor space. Seme
ladies were quietly dressed, but the greater num-
ber blossomed out in gayest of garb. The spread
of pink nun’s veiling lately ha 3 been remarkable.
Every girl now that gets a new dress teases ma for
a pink nun's veiling, and certainly nothing could
look neater. One delicious specimen was worn
by a brunette, and trimmed with camellia leaves,
some of the white flowers strewn about the
shoulders. Her companion wore one nearly as
nice, only the cardinal satin bodice robbed it of
simplicity. Fi'om close at hand, came a choice
little maid, daughter of one of the Brothers, in
ruby plush and cream lace; and from Surry
Hills came a little married ladj; as bright as
a Bunray with her line fair hair, cream silk
toilet, and wreath, gloves, and fan to matoh
the ureas. Another good toilet was bright
cardinal satin bodice worn by a tall blonde with
white veiling skirt and scarlet wreath. A hand-
some, portly lady wore crushed strawberry top
with coat ends, over a deep cream satin drees
richly pleated and puffed. Two youmr girls had a
pair of the prettiest pink satins imaginable, but
they nearly spoiled them by putting on a lot of
gold beads and tinsel, which looked tawdry. Two
sisters wore dresses in which artistic effort had
had a better result: black cashmere, with ruff
collars; one collar twined with greenish blue
shells, and the lady wore a large bunch of blue
ribbons at the waist; the other collar lined with
pink, and the lady wore a corresponding bunch of
pink ribbons at the waist. Among the guests, the
refined and dainty dancing of Mrs. F. Warskitt
DISTRESSING.
BEREAVED WIDOWER: "CONFOUND IT, HERE’S MARIA GONE AND FALLEN OFF THE
CLIFF, AND IF SHE HASN’T ALL THE MONET AND THE THAM-TICKETB IN HER
POCKET, TOO. HOW ON EARTH I’M TO GET BACK TO TOWN, I DON’T KNOW. SO
TIRESOME OF HER.”
was a conspicuous feature. A young Hebrew
lady wore a bright ruby plush body, and roomy
skirt of black lace over ruby foundation. From
Surry Hills came a slight brunette in all bla ’k, un-
surpassable as a dancer; and in dark brown velvet
another brilliant waltzer came from the Glebe. A
notable charming costume, being light and stylish,
was white satin bodice and net skirt, with pearl
embellishments, and a bright red feather head-
dress, worn by a fair girl from Moere Park,
who, in common with the Queen and the Cab-
bage Garden, rejoices iu the Royal name of
Victoria. Now, here’s a nice picture: a cream
corded silk, made sleeveless, and with a train, and
trimmed with cube-shaped pearls, strings of which
were wound round shapely arms and neck; down
the bosom strays a garland of pure white roses
and maidenhair ferns; a coronal of stars over a
sweet Maud Branscombeface; that's the picture of
a lady from Goorge-street West-and she is mar-
ried. A black velvet studded with bunches of
blue convolvulus was pretty. A handsome robe
was worn by a lady with a nretty shade of that
auburn hair that Eugenie had, black velvet prin-
cess shape, fronted with white satin pleated to the
waist, and below that gathered down to the hem.
A number of other tine dresses were observable,
but cannot be noticed because wu’ve forgotten
them.
a • •
Melbourne is havin'! a gay time just now.
Among tho numerous pomps and vanities, comes
first the Governor’s Levee, which was the largest
for years, if not ever, His Excellency giving over
a thousand handshakes to the leading Cabbage-
Gardeners on Wednesday, 23rd July. When it was
known that he was going to the Liedertafel, there
was an unprecedented rush for tickets, and num-
ber} of persons were in their seats soon after six
o’clock—others had to be turned away from the
Town Hall. Lady Loch wore blaek, with lace
sleeves, and bands of crimson velvet over her hair.
It is expected that the Governor will give a large
ball soon. At any rate, he is confidently looked
upon as the revivifler of Melbourne society, which
was considerably stagnated before, so far as Vice-
regal festivities went. He is voted a considerable
improvement on “ another person.” The two
Misses Loch are not yet “out,” but the aide-de-
camp (Viscount Castlerosse) is the eldest son of A
wealthy Limerick peer, and so Toorak young lady-
dom is all aflutter accordingly. The Governors
party attended the races on the great steeplechase
day, on which occasion Lady Loch wore a hana-
some and highly becoming black velvet redingote
with long box pleats, and an under-dress of dark
heliotrope, with velvet bonnet. Among other
choice costumes were seen some very fashionable
ones. Mrs. Norman Wilson wore moss-green
velvet; Mrs. (Capt.) Ind, brown mixed with gold,
and brown striped silk; Mrs. Robt. Power, all
black; Mrs. J. Purves, a'l dark grenat; Mrs. Winn,
green plush and cashmere, with white plush bon-
net; Mrs. D. Wallace, a grenat velvet skirt, with
rococo overskirt of cream, trimmed with cofree-
coloured lace; M<ss Fairbairn, slate cashmere and
brocaded velvet; Mrs. James M’culloch, brown
satin and grenat dolman; Mrs. Madden,lsage-green
silk; Mrs. Desailly, all black; and Miss Clara De-
sailly, dark green hraided with crimson, and jacket
bordered with ffathers, looking very unique; Mrs.
Byron Moore wore navy blue; Mrs. Lempriere, a
stylish cinnamon-brown silk and plush pompons.
Among other festivities, there is soon to be a ball,
given by Lady Clarke. On the 11th August there
is to bo a grand masquerade ball in the Exhibition
by the Turn Verein, with a procession showing all
the nations of the world. Then, on the 11th, the
Victoria Bicycle Club ball will be held; and the
Melbourne Bicycle Club will have a second annual
ball on the 22nd August.
* * *
The annual tradesmen’s ball at Newcastle
was a noticeably sooial affair, and a large attend-
ance found it most enjoyable. A new band ac-
quitted itself well, and Lashmore catered. Among
those who were present were: Mr. Penny, Gentle-
man of Charles If. era: Mr. Gross, Don Caesar: Mr.
and (Virs. Hanby, erst of Parramatta; Mrs. J. C.
Ellis and Miss Fletoher, in evening dress; MissM.
A. Smith, Colleen Bawn; Mrs. Gross, Maritana;
Miss Canavan. Tambourine Girl; Miss A. Giles,
Cinderella; Miss Dick, Gipsy Queen; Mr. R. Levy,
as the Marquis in “ Maritana,” &c. Evening dresp,
however, preponderated. Twenty-six dances were
managed; and the only mar to the whole affair
was the rain, which falls on the just and the un-
just, and also fell on a cosy side-room just erected
of canvas, which the young people had chalked
out in their minds as a desirable spot for senti-
mental proceeding's.
* • •
At the Newcastle Liedertafel, Mr. Halle-
well treated the coalopolites to “ The Desert,”
“Vanity,” and “Simon the Cellarer;” and Mr.
Charles Huenerbein gave the Leura waltz, and an
arrangement of “ Faust.” The part songs were
under the conduotorship of Mr. A. H. Gee, of
Parramatta, who is getting the singers along ex-
cellently. He aso sang, with Miss C. Hannell, the
duet "The Sailor’s Signs,” and a solo “The King’s
Minstrel.” A duet from Mendelssohn was given
by a quartette of instrumentalists, and Mrs. J. C.
Ellis’s “Angel's Serenade,” with violin obligato,
was specially good.
• • *
On Saturday night, Mr. Combes closed the
Art Society's Exhibition with a little speech, in
which ho thanked everybody who had helped in
any way, and wished a few more of the pictures
had been red-watered. Jt was a place to spend
pleasant hours, and many people are sony they
cannot go there still, and more that they omitted
to go when they had the chance On Thursday
Hanlan went, and it wasn’t long before he focussed
his vigilant eye on No. 273, the “Nepean River,”
by A. Collingridge. He stood there some time
contemplatieg the scene of his struggle, and then,
after scooping his hand round his pocket without
any apparent result, walked away, probably to
fetch some money to buy the picture. Several
musical evenings were given under the manage-
ment of Mr. Charles Hueneibein, and the wedding
of the sister arts together haa a good result. The
conductor gave some of his best music, and other
performers were Masters Watson, Thompson, and
Curtis, Messrs. Hallewell and Cowper, and ladies,
who helped most muterially at the closing concert,
namely, Mrs Curtis, Miss Josephine Deakin, Miss
Cowley, and Madame Marius. Chairs were formed
so as to keep an open square by the piano, and
outside these promenaders could still walk and
examine the piotures up to the last moment.
(For continuation of Social, see page 13.)


One J. J. Wright, ot Queauoeyan, uu-
nounces certain brewery premises to let or for
sale. Speculators are informed that, independently
of the local trade, upwards of 2000 workmen will
be employed upon the railway works in the imme-
diate neighbourhood for the next three years.
Think of that, now 1 What a Held for money-
making and man-destroying. Suppose (and the
calculation wouldn’t be a rash one) that of those
2000 men two-thirds are good, steady swipers of
she-oak, and allowing each unit (of the two-thirds)
half a gallon a day as an average put-away, and
reckoning the brewer to clear no more than 3d. a
gallon, the fortunate speculator would net some-
thing like £lO,OOO gain in the three years, irrespec-
tive of what he made by the local trade. And,
whilst the ingenious brewer pouched the ten thou,
as the result of his enterprise, the speculation
would probably ultimately cost the community at
least a million in criminal and lunacy expenses,
such is the exhilarating effect on the human system
of "‘malt ” liquor—made to sell.
The amount of salaries annually paid in
the Conditional Purchase branch of the Lands
Department alone, has been ascertained to be
exactly £24,265 10s. 1 And the exact amount of
work done is estimated to be—however, that, of
course, is of no consequence, further than it re-
minds us of the following tale. Some years ago, it
was found necessary, in a certain Government
office, to employ a staff of foreigners to translate
some documents, which were required in support
of a rather important case. One day an old lager-
boer-lined Teuton was working away with a pious,
but otherwise intelligent Commissioner, when the
pair came to the name of Karl Schmitz. “ What
has become of him,” asked the Commissioner.
“Schmitz,” replied the other, slowly; “ob, hevas
deadt un’ gone t’ h 1 some dimes ago.” “Tut,
tut, sir,” exclaimed the horror-stricken chief,
“ you must not speak of him in that way.” “ Dot
vas orl ridght,” said the stolid assistant; “you
yoost vait some little vhiles, den you see for your-
self, un-doant-you-forget-her neither.”
Our present subject is a funereal one.
In this page will be seen an illustration of a
magnificent hearse, introduced by Mr. P. Kirby,
the well-known undertaker, of 84 and 86 Hunter-
street. The vehicle in question was de-
signed by Mr. Kirby, and built on his
premises at a cost (including plumes) of over
£250. The interior is of cedar and polished
oak, representing the nave of Bt. Mary’s
Cathedral, whilst the windows are facsimiles of
the northern end of that majestic edifice. The dr*
sign is essentially original, and Mr. Kirby may be
congratulated in possessing a hearse that has not
its equal in Australia. The subject of under-
taking is not a very congenial one either
to read or write about. Nevertheless, Mr.
Kirky deserves great praise indeed for his very
delicate manner of managing and superintending
interments, and the S.M. Herald gave him a meed
of praise for his superior arrangement of the
funeral obsequies of the late Dr. Uadham. Mr.
Kirby’s reputation as the premier undertaker of
N.S.W. has been recognised in Victoria, and, some
time ago, that gentleman was summoned to con-
duct the funeral of one of the nephews of me
late Acting-Governor. Notwithstanding his som-
bre surroundings, Mr. Kirby is a man of genial
disposition, and is an undoubted success in his own
line of business.
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co, 143 Pltt-street.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. oOi Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
ANALYTICAL. REPORT.
Metujottrne.
My examination of a sample of
Bavarian Hop Bitters has elicited
the following: among other particulars: It is a
clear, pale fluid of low density (997:i1) containing
22 per cent, of extract, which is all vegetable, the
ash being nominal, loss than many potable waters.
. . . . They have a pleasant light hop flavour,
modified by presenoe of other herbal bitters. I
have not been able to find any noxious ingredient
or injurious contamination. ... 1 think they
may fully be expected to answer the purpose for
which they are designed.
BYDNEY GIBBONS, F.C.S., Analyst.
HOKDERN'S
ON THE
Briclrtield. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS In LACE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
Ladies residing
Curtains. If
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it oitt, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
ss
LM
>:
i
<
& iS A W 5 *3 *3 j& 'i& ! f&At& ’& '&
m
A
m
mmM
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
| LACK CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS I
BT Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
*Deaim-st Belle,—Let me see, what have I to
• sell youthis week? Oh I I know. We went to the
'Eowciiuja.i again on Tuesday week to have an-
other >Vo< k at the pictures by gaslight, and it was
a pleasant evening, for, besides meeting nice
people there, Mr. Huenerbein save us some very
fair music. Mrs. Curtis has a beautiful voice, and
took part in a duet with Miss Josephine Deakin;
and a gentleman sang “True till Death ” with a
good deal of tender expression. The little boy
who sang twice has one of tnose rare sweet boyish
voices, which one so seldom hears, but he sang as
if he were tired, the other night, and as though
his chief aim were to get through his solo as
quiokly as possible. That's the worst of boys—
they take so little pride in any talent with which
they may be blessed. Now, if the truth were
known, I shouldn’t beatall surprised if this young
gentleman placed a far higher value on his skill in
shooting a bird with his catapult than in his vocal
gift. But it’s so with most of us. We only prize
that which has cost us some effort to obtain.
There was an old gentleman there who reminded
me very much of poor Beethoven, in this, that he
watched the music all the time through his opera-
glasses. You know, when Beethoven became
deaf, his sense of sight had to do duty for
his ears in conveying music to his mind; so,
perhaps, this old gentleman was deaf and had
to feel the music through his eyes also. Any-
how, he must have enjoyed what he did feel,
for he stood so patiently just a few yards from the
piano with his glasses invariably levelled on the
music all through the evening. Another very
funny thing we saw was a bronze statue of the
Queen, the figure of which reminded me so much
of our Cook’s that I think she must have stood for
it. I don’t know that Cook would feel flattered
though, for, on the whole, I think she has the
advantage over the statue in being rather better
proportioned. It isn't altogether a bad work of
art, for the pedestal on which it stands is quite
mice, besides which it made a sweet rendezvous. If
you want to know which picture I liked best, I
Ireally can’t tell you, but there was one of Mr.
Ashton’s, “A View of the Beach at Pittwater,” I
think he calls it, where the sand looked so really
like sand that you couldn’t take it for anything
else. I made this remark to my companion, and
heard someone behind us growl out, “Well, what
would you have it look like? Grass?” lurning
round, we beheld the artist himself, and I was so
confused and frightened that i began apologising
for having been bold enough to critioise his pic-
ture. I did not even remember that I had said
nothing bad about it; but I made up my mind from
that moment that, whatever I might think, I
would take good care not to speak above a whisper
in future. It might be dangerous, you anow.
Professor West inviteu us to go and watch the
dancing at his Cinderella party last Wednesday
night, and as graceful and cultivated dancing is a
sight well worth seeing, we went. Of course, you
know all about his beautiful new rooms, which are
about the best in Sydney, and which, I am told,
are becoming more popular every day? And
there is a drawing-room, oomfortably furnished,
which opens off the large ball-room, from whence,
after ensconcing ourselves on the cosy lounges,
we could see all that was to be seen. The Pro-
fessor is, 1 think, just a little bit too severe with
his pupils. For instance, if a couple begin to
waltz in the polka he takes them to task at once,
and has even been known to expel them for so
doing. It is little short of a crime in his eyes, but
they, knowing this, should be more wary in risk-
ing his displeasure, and placing themselves in so
embarrassing a position as to be censured in the
presence of a room full of people. However, the
Professor is so great a man in his chosen art, that
he is quite entitled to be eccentric; for what man
who soars above the average in any particular
line—no matter what—is not? The dancers be-
longing to the first class went through the cotil-
lon delightfully, and even succeeded in pleasing
their master, which means much. All were taste-
fully, if not gorgeously, dressed, and Miss Harvey’s
singing made a pleasant variety in the evening’s
programme.
I hope the Queensland footballers don’t think
tie Sydney ladies have slighted them, but the
spatse attendance at the last match was far from
flattering, and even their laundress neglected to
treat them with the courtesy due to visitors,
for she did not send them their washing
tiome in time for the second match, so they
'were forced to wear borrowed jerseys, which,
Ibeing of divers colours, spoilt their appearance
•entirely. But, you know, the day on which they
played the last match was set aside for Kiccardi’s
benefit—the Kiccardi whom we first knew and
loved as the Colonel in “ Patience ’’—and, as that
took hundreds away who would otherwise have
been on the ground, we must only hope they will
be generous and forgive us, and we will promise
to behave better next time.
We are now having the last week of “ Macbeth,”
at the Koyal, and if it were not that the Turners
are going to give us comic opera we should be in-
consolable indeed. It’s strange what little things
Will annoy us sometimes—but frequently when
we have been giving all our ears to the splendidly
sung choruses in “Macbeth,” we have been dis-
tracted by some one joining in from the circle. I
don’t know whether it be the same man each time,
but I thought it a pity the managers had not seen
fit to place placards round the walls prohibiting
the audience from joining in the singing. Even
the echo he would not leave alone, which was too
bad altogether, for as he did not possess the power
of ventriloquism the effeot to those within ear-
shot of this most aggressive party was entirely
lost. I wondered why he didn’t go and offer him-
self as a chorus singer right away; I dare say he
would have been able to persuade the managers
to accept him, and perhaps allow him fifteen
shillings a week into the bargain. Maybe, how-
ever, he thought he would create moro of an
impression up in the circle, and no doubt he did,
though perhaps not the kind he went for. I don’t
think l ever told you anything about that funniest
of plas’s“Fun on the Bristol.” It is one scream
from beginning to end, and there’s some really
good Binging there, too. I believe it has been run-
ning over eight weeks and still they have crowded
houses; but for all that, this is to be the last week
of it. A novelty during the performance is a
musette solo played by Mr. Dunbar, which is very
effective. The musette is just like a small oboe,
and the tone is as rich and penetrating. It is quite
a feature in the evening’s entertainment and is in-
variably encored. What a funny fellow Sheridan
is to be surel I don’t think I have laughed so
much at anything since the last time we went 10
the Minstrels, as I did at him the other night. Oh 1
you remember I told you that we were going to
take all the children to the Minstrels? Well, we
did, but we had a fearful time with little May,
afterwards. As soon as we got home, they all de-
clared they were fearfully hungry, and, as we had
often felt the same ourselves atter a night at the
Minstrels, we allowed them to sit up to supper.
The consequence was, May had the nightmare, and
thought the black man with the big mouth
(meaning S. KeenaD, of course,) was going to
swallow her up.” It was some time before we
could convince her that she was dreaming, and we
made up our minds that the next time we took
them we would make them give a solemn promise
beforehand not to laugh, so that they would not
get hungry and want supper before going to bed.
Just fancy 1 that horrid Miss Fitz-Jones has got
a fac simile of my last new bonnet. Isn’t it
aggravating? And I thought there wasn’t another
like it in Sydney. There is one firm here who
make it their boast that they never import two
bonnets alike, so I shall take good care to go there
next time I want to buy one. I won’t tell you
wnich firm it is just yet, for you are such a little
gossip that you would let all the world know, and
I want to have the first pick of their Spring goods,
which are to comeat the beginning of next month.
Selfish, isn’t it ? There is hardly anything nice in
the shops just now, for they are all saving them-
selves up for a grand display of Spring goods next
month. That’s why I always dislike the end of a
season. There is positively nothing fresh to tell
you about in the way of dresses and hats, &c.
Crinolines are being worn just a little smaller than
they wereja month ago, and—think of it!—l heard
one of the stern sex say the other day that they
weren't such bad things after all, lor, in his
opinion, they helped to set off the figure. And he
was a Frenchman, too, so his opinion should
be worth something, eh ? Are you coming
down for the next Lledertafel oonoert, which is
going to be held in the Exhibition Building, and
which is to eclipse any they have yet given us ?
We are going to one of Professor Baldwin’s enter-
tainments to-morrow night, so, as I am rather im-
patient to know something of a peculiarly per-
plexing character, I think I will ask him to let Mrs.
Baldwin tell me when he has mesmerised her.
Clever people, those Baldwins, and well worth
seeing. Now, dear, good-bye,
Ever yours,
MAB.
The manner in which certain Victorian
M.L.A.’s shrieked and flourished their tiles at Sir
Henry Loch after the swearing-in ceremony, was
suggestive of their having, at some earlier period
of their useful careers, been in the habit of roaring
long live the King!" as supers in historical plays.
Strangely enough, this legislative enthusiasm fell
a bit flat, and the multitude in front of the Trea-
sury building didn't dance about nearly so much
as the lawgivers on the steps. Perhaps they were
too much occupied with getting one fleeting glance
at His .Excellency s presence, but, whatever the
cause may have been, the fact remains that, at
this particular stage of the proceedings, there
wasnt the ‘great cheering" that the dailies
talked about next morning. When Sir Henry, at
the solicitation of the platform lick-spittles, ad-
vanced ana bowed to the vulgar herd, Service and
Lo. fell back on either side, and nodded at the peo-
ple, as much as to say “Isn't he a beautiful new
°^, er ?, or i — .why don’t you make as much nobe as
us r But It was no go; the people, in a general
way, expressed their approval of the Governor to
one another, and remarked that he looked the
boss of that, lot,” but very few displayed symp-
toms of temporary insanity. In vain did two or
three M.L.A. s at the back continue to make spas-
modic signals with their loyal hats. Nobody took
any notice; so, for the second time, Bir Henry was
presented to the public gaze, and the legislative
war-danoogone through. A few of tho mob did say
Hurrah, in an undertone, then; but the fact
was that the miserable make-believe of pageantry
about this swearing-in business aroused more con-
tempt than enthusiasm. And any one with half
an eye could see that the glorification of the pro-
moters not of the new Governor—wa i what was
sought. The majority of the public didn’t want
to glorify either.
Quite a oivil war is now raging in one of
our go-ahead towns down South, over the burning
question of gas v. kerosene. One alderman de-
clares he will resist the new-fangled idea till the
Day of Judgment, and, if showery then, until the
week after; while another local magnate is pre-
paring to skip the district because the corporation
proposes to plant a gas l«mp right in front of his
very door. He says he for one wilt never submit
to have his liberty as a citizen outraged, and be
eaten up himself by taxes. This reminds us of
the doings of the old London civic authorities, of
whom a record dated 1478 observes: “ A wex
chandler in Kleet-street had by crafte perced a
pipe of the condit witbynne the ground, and so
conceived the water into his selar; wherefore he
was judged to ride through the citie with a condit
upon his head, the citie crier goyne before and
calling aloude the criminal’s offence.” Our friend,
the Southern Mayor, had better go slow, or he may
be trotted round with a gasometer on his head in
like manner.
H EASSE, DESIGNED AND OWNED BY MR. P. KIRBY, 64 HUNTER-STREET.


Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; It destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Why do Hop Bitters cure so much ?
Because they aive Rood digestion, rich blood and
healthy action of all the organs. Read.
Don’t Die in the House.— “ Rough on Rats, ’
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
tlies, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
No artiole, imported or otherwise, which
is alleged to possess similar ingredients to Wolfe s
Schnapps, is aught else thanapernicioushumbug.
The public will be guided accordingly and shun
the trap.
A reliable medicine is like a true friend
when needed, it is always on hand, and when tried
is never found wanting. Such is precisely the
character of Bristol’s Sarsaparilla and Pills ;
they never deceive, they do exactly what is claimeu
for them, and they cure disease where doctors’
prescriptions and all other medicines fail.
Westfield, Mass, Feb. 18, 1882. Dr. J. C.
Ayer and Co.—Gentlemen, About five years ago I
had a very bad cough, and tried several remedies
without any reliel, until I was advised by Mr.
Whitney, druggist, of Gouverneur, N.Y., to try
your Cherry Pectoral, which I did, and before
I had taken naif a bottle, I was entirely cured.
Yours, &c., Charles Mf.acham.
Mr. DbCouroy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Reresford Chambers, 52Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, ear Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, ES?” Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
ckiil, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stoek-
iugs, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, fto., &c., by return post.*
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS
£o
ft
*
*
»•
&
HOP
I'limlill
&
«A>
£2f3!
NVA
LUA
SUFFER I
\ t h° 5 1
fO
on
s$
Me
?He
APTED FOR T _
AustralianColohies
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 180 P.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital ,£300,000
Reserve Fund £138,010
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John Kay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley Kina’, M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq’
Manager: | Secretary:
F. A. A. Wilson. | Hector Alien.
Branches in New South Wades :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerocb.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 153 Leademhall-street.
_, Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. r. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G | Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale
SINGER & CO.
PATERSON,
Representative for N.S. W„
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stock in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
w orkmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
KIBBY AND CO.,
96 King-street.
s
k
Kibby's Shirts at 4s. Gd., seldom equalled ! Never
excelled in Fit, quality or finish.
Underwear for Winter, large variety, lowest
prices.
Neckwear, new and stylish shapes.
Collars, Cuffs, Night Shirts, Handkerchiefs, &c.
KIBBY & CO., 96 King-street.
rt»?Rieoß»’sr
IlssiiSuMi
e only infallible remedy for
XEf\Votfs J)ebiLijyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy,
total and partial prostration, and every other ex-
haustive derangement of thesystem; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 125., or four quantities is one?or
365.; if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and cO„ 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georg e-street South.
SENT POST FREE FOR Is. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Disease, Impediments to Marriage, &e. How
to choose a partner for life, so as to live happy;
How to regain and preserve your health, &c.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Hills, Sydney,
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
Some of us speculate and lose, and some
Of us speoulate aud win. There is a man in the
South now who put a good deal of money into the
Tyrconnel! Gold Mining Company, whose habitat
was the Hodgkinson, in the North of Queensland.
We saw a letter he got the other day from the
secretary, i i which it was stated that there was no
money, and no anything there at all at all. And
that man s acquaintance, some 18 months ago, put
his name down for a roll of Queen’s Birthday
6crip. This was a claim at Drummond, which they
were floating into a company of 35,000 at 10i. This
company has not called up one penny of its capital
yet, and has distributed since its formation £31,350
in dividends. Look on this picture and on that ...
Melbourne University Council will open its meet-
ings to the reporter, as the only means of securiog
deoenoy in discussion Principal Leeper, of
Trinity College, Melbourne, LL.D.-ed by Dublin
University The Millennium must be at hand.
Little W. J. Foster has stated his belief that there
is not that amount of bigotry among the Roman
Catholics that people attributed to them. What is
the F.M.C.A.about that it doesn’t remove W.J F.’s
name from its list of vice-presidents ? And why
do the Orangemen hesitate to refute so abominably
false and malicious a statement? ...Osborne says
the dogma of the devil is the devil of a dogma
Alderman Brough, of Cobar, objects against the
nuisance to which the residents of that town are
daily and 'hourly subjected by the Great Cobar
Company saturating the whole place with the
fumes of sulphur and arsenic; but he can't get
another alderman to second a motion authorising
the Council clerk to request the Co. to abate the
nuisance, for the simple reason that Cobar is so
completely under the thumb of the Great C. C.
that were its management to commence burning
sulphur ore at each street corner none, save
Brough, would say them nay. The chaplain to the
Co. says that the inhalation of sulphur fumes is a
capital preparation for the next world—The
average annual earnings in New South Wales
is £5O. This is the highest in the world. Aus-
tralia. as a whole, runs to £43 per head
Miss Infirmary Superintendent Osborne says the
Young Hospital is a " moral.” She advises the
Wagga Hospital folk to acquaint themselves with
the way things are done at the Young institution.
Wagga Hospital folk mad. “Is not,” they yell,
*• the Murrumbidgee the river of Wagga, better
than all the measly Burrangong creeks, and are we
to go to ‘‘the Flat ” for instruction ? By Morgan
the Fat—never 1 ” Queensland Land Bill boiled
down ; suburban lots not to exceed 80 acres.
Country lands divided into agricultural and graz-
ing areas, former not to exceed 9(50 acres (min.
rental 3d. per acre, transferable lease for 50 years),
latter not to exoeed 30,000 acres(min.rental per
acre, lease for 30 years. Fencing com-
pulsory within two years). Rents, after first ten
years, to be raised by valuation, every five years.
No one person to hold two leases in same district.
Continuous holders of agricultural areas for ten
years may purchase it outright. Special thirty
years leases (area not over 10,000 acres) of lands
overgrown by brigafow, rnallee, &c. Occupation
licences, 13 months’ currency, for country not
otherwise disposed of. Optional with present
lessees to bring their runs under the Act; if they
do, runs are to be divided into two parts, one part
(varying from one-fourth to one-half) to be re-
sumed and thrown open to selection, the lessee to
retain his grazing right over it until disposed of;
unresumed part the lessee to have Axed lease for
10 years in settled, and 15 years in unsettled dis-
triois ; rent for the first five years to be 40s. per
square mile in settled, and 30s. to 90s. in unsettled
districts; fora second term of five years not less
than BOa. in settled, and not less than 40s. and 60s.
for second and third terms in unsettled districts.
Administration of Act by a Board of Two A
coloured preacher at Launceston, said to be an
ordained Bishop of Mauritius, sent up for a month
for sending begging letters. Kpiscopal mendicancy
wants putting down Phrenologist Hamilton
has passed in his checks. One bumper at parting.
England and Holland have agreed to take
joint action to secure release of the crew of the
Nisero, wrecked on the Acheen coast. Much
h .art-aching would have saved had such action
been more promptly taken Why doesn’t the
Czar get dynamited like a man and be done with
it ? These frequent “shaves ” about assassination
plots are getting somewhat monotonous. This
time it’s the Warsaw police Yvho are in it; hut,
thank Heaven, their “fell design” (to quote Alf.’s
touching words) " was frustrated,” or, as we more
tersely should put it, “ has come to Knout.” Leo
says he meant Moran's appointment to the see of
Sydney as a token of love to Ireland. The St a nd-
ahd Barry only sees in it a sop ’orriflo to Fenian-
ism, treason, and hell—Bishop JacobsoD, who
reoently resigned the soe of Chester, dead, aged 80.
He was one of Palmerston's “ohaftesbury ” bishops
—narrow, low, and flabby —Abyssinian chiefs
on an embassage to England along with an ele-
Bhaut that Johannes 11. is sending the Queen ...
holera severe at Marseilles. Tis 163 years ago
since the plague raged there, but tho sanitary con-
dition of the town remains just about the same.
“Marseilles' good bishop” (Belsunce) proved him-
self a man who could feel for another, when the
plague raged; but the old city’s great want then,
as now, is a good sanitary engineer The follow-
ing figures give some idea of the morality of the
different grades of Amerieaa society. Last year
bankers stole £780,000; bankers’ clerks, £330,0u0;
city employes, 358,000; merchants 450,000; trustees,
£331,000 ; brokers, £113,000; revenue agents,
£140,0 0; and state treasurers £175,000. Law- I
yers stand lowest, at £83,000, but this is ac-
counted for by the enormous filching they
do In the matter of exoroitant tees
There are 38 German princes, and 38 Eurouean
princtsses, mostly German, in tho marriage mar-
ket. England has still many noble chances left of
spoiling the people to support a poverty-stricken
effSte loreign aristocracy Theology v. alcohol.
In the United stales there are 80,000 churches, and
330,000 grog-shops; 90,000 parsons, and 540.000 bai-
teuuers. Which shows that religion hasn’t a show
in a tussle with grog Tasmanians guzzle over
ten gallons of beer per head annually. A real
“ tight ” little island.
Hoyt the butterfly detests everything
which reminds him that he himself was once a
grub. A wealthy but most ostentatiously igno-
rant resident of a certain aristocratic borough re-
cently declared in a public room that no persons
should be allowed to settle down about that
favoured neighbourhood unless they were able to
pay at least £3 10s. a week for house rent. This
was necessary, he thought, in order to secure the
respectability of the borough. And it is only a
few years ago since this “toney” citizen himself
lived in a two-roomed humpy, married a cook, and
used to travel round with about If different strata
of dirt on his face and clothes.
One of the natural results of the Blue
Ribbon fad is the steady increase of hypocrisy and
priggishness, and the filling ui> of lucrative situa-
tions by a canting crowd ot deceitful loafers, who,
on the strength of their teetotal ticket (which is
only acted up to in public) manage to work better
laboureis and far bonester men out of the means
of earning their daily bread. Not long ago a trust-
worthy carter, through a purely unavoidable acci-
dent, managed to bring his horse dome Yvith a
slight scratcu on one of its knees, and the foreman
of the yard, a rabid enthusiast in the sarsaparilla
cause, at once informed his master that there
was no trusting a maa now unless ho was a
itotjil abstainer. Next day that carter's place
was filled ty a sort of cross between Chadband
and Uriah Heep, and in a few months after this
the foreman found it necessary to send the Blue
jftibbon boy about his business, and quietly make
up his defalcations out of his own pocket. In de-
lightful contrast to this, however, is the tale which
tells ot a certain brewery proprietor, who, on see-
ing one of his own drays coming down the street
in ohurgo of a pious-looking party decorated with
his little bit o’ blue, stopped the procession, and
paid, ’* Don’t you drink beer, my man ? ” “ Heaven
forbid that I should ever debase my manhood by
go doing,” exclaimed Booth’s pupil on the box.
•All right,” replied the brewer, “consider you.-
feif dismissed, for if you don’t drink beer I’ll be
'nantred ifyou’ll drive beer round the town for me
either.” The new driver (iocs drink beer, and when
be wants it bad he up-ends a cask and sucks away
at the bung-hole.
The other morn, the leader-writer on the
Daily Dram came prancing into his official den
with dilated nostrils. Hashing eves, and that charac-
teristic side-long gait peculiar to a Flagstaff billy-
goat when he’s off to make war on a Kent-street
rival. A dread silence, iiko that which follows a
request for the loan of live shillings until next
Saturday, fell on all the staff, and the very cock-
roacbet in the paste-pot squirmed with a nameless
awe as the distinguished litterateur dipped his pen
in gall and wrote: “ For the creation of the threa-
tening trouble, China is solely responsible, and, so
far as we can judge from the few facts at our dis-
posal, she has shown a want of fidelity to treaty
obligations that.should bring upon her the heaviest
retribution.” Just here, a cash customer came in
to insert a 2i. ad. about a lost baboon, and the
stern frown of the writer relax«d and the eyes
shed a milder light as the cheery sound of the two
Ro her tubs rang out crisp and clear against the
ink-stained counter. Hardly had the scathing
scribe clutched his mighty weapon once more
before a young match-peddler brought a message
to say that a gentleman at the Star and Garter
Hotel across the road would like to see him on
urgent business. He went, he saw, and he liquored.
Two hours af er this, he entered the sanctum once
more, thorough'y at peace, not only with China,
but with all mankind in general. And then, as the
portable “steam-power” in the passage squeaked
out “ more copy, pleezo,” he finished off the
Franco-Chinesn trouble as follows: “Although
China has acted a very treacherous part, she can
hardly be blamed for holding out against the
French claim. She deserves punishment, but a
fine of ten millions of money is out of ail propor-
tion to the offence.” What a soothing effect there
is about the influence of “ Jameson,” and what an
everlasting pity it is that his society is not as much
courted by Ministers of War as it is by the suscep-
tible magnates of our daily journals.
Just at the present dale things are a trifle
unsettled on ’Change in New York. Bankers and
brokers have been tumbling down like rotten
pears since the collapse of that sweet young man,
Mr. Ferdinand Ward, and tb'-- guileless Master
Grant. The late President of. the Stock Exchange
has gracefully resigned, after helping himself to
two million dollars of Government bonds belong-
ing to a Newark savings bank. Mr. Jobu C. Eno,
ex-President of the Second National Bank, re-
cently skipped the country, but was subsequently
escorted back by the police to apologise for hav-
ing forged a choque for 90,000 dollars, in addition
to having gone through his unsuspecting creditors
to the tune of four million dollars more. Even
the little street hucksters have caught the craze
to shoot into affluence at a single bound, and boys
who, having disposed .of a bag of pea-nuts and
allowed themselves, in the heyday of success, to
be tempted into adding a cako of tobacco and a
tin of sardines to their stock, are now whirled
along to bankruptcy also. The style the New
Yorkers run up a bogus fortune is neatly de-
scribed as follows:—“JYou have only to set up a
broker’s office. A broker is a man who breaks up
his friends. Borrow some money. Borrow some
more, and pay 10 per cent, a month on the first.
Buy a magnificent home, twenty blooded horses,
and 50,000 dollars’ worth of diamonds. Get some
more moneyrnf your friends, and ‘invest’ it by
paying for a quarter of the fine things you have
bought. Go in debt for the rest. Stay in debt,
but buy a picture gallery. Get some more money
from your friends and ‘ invest ’ it in a country
house in your wife’s name. Then give out that
you have taken some stupendous Government
contracts, and get your friends to put in more
money, ‘invest’ it in a steam pleasure yacht,
and live at the rate of 100,000 dollars a year. Your
neighbours will envy you, and you can give
parties ” How thankful we should be that such
deeds as these are never even as much as men-
tioned by the financial kings of this honourable
land of ours. Let us be moral, deah friends—bo
moral.
The Rev. C. Baker, a Church of England
divine whose brains were musty when Martin
Luther was a dirty little picaninny making,mud
pies, knows all about the Social Purity trouble
now, and during the recent Synod pow-wow he
bobbed up serenely and declared: “The social
evil is making fearful progress in this colony, and
the only hope of effectually dealing with the
calamity is for men—especially young men—to
band themselves together and grapple with it.”
Somehow, we are inclined to think that if men—
especially choir-going and Sawbath-school-teach-
ing voung men—didn’t grapple with it quite as
much as they do during the iong summer nights
when the man in the moon gets foul of the clouds,
&c., the list of the killed and wounded wouldn’t be
quite so alarming as it is at present. The Rev. Mr.
Williams didn’t see there was any very great
necessity to go bucking mad over the affair just
now, because the Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion members were already working themselves
baldheaded in the good cause. Another gentleman,
whose name we did not catch, was of opinion that
in many instances young men—especially young
coachmen—were the “seducees,” not the seducers,
and he thought something ought to be done to
protect their virtue also, and in proof of his state-
ment he drew attention to the disgraceful evi-
dence given in the case of Potiphar v. Potiphar, in
which the female defendant was proved to have
played a very low down game, indeed, on the un-
suspecting co-respondent, Joseph. After some
further discussion, it was then resolved to start a
Knight of tho White Cross Society, the members
of which would be expected to keep themselves as
ehaste and pure as if they were fed on frozen milk
and kept in an ice-chest all their life-time; and,
furthermore, that they would swear to protect
the honour of what Mr. Waterbottle Foster face-
tiously termed the “ weaker sex," and watch over
their dear sisters in the faith with a love that
would last longer than even a Darlinghurst turn-
key's winter overcoat. The President reminded
the knights of the White Cross that heaven would
be their home if they per severed in the good cause,
after which he earnestly requested them not to
make any mistakes about tue ownerships of the
hats in the passage, and closed the meeting with
the usual benediction.
Things have gone a bit wrong with the
godly Gribbles at Warangesda. A publican has
been had up for supplying the converted gins
there with rum, and the result has been a series of
what Alfred would die if he didn’t call “Start-
ling Disclosures.” According to the evidence of
one of the lemale Gribbleites—Mary Ann Foot-
white men came to visit the women at the Mis-
sio.:.” [Ml] When at the pub. she “ went into the
bar throe times, and had a glass of beer on each
occasion; once the barman served her. She got
the flask of brandy the first time.” An overseer—
a white man !—was next called. Here is a little of
what he said, hot out of the Riveiuna Star :
“John Rushton. assistant at Warangesda Mis-
sion . . . had heard of tho complaints of in-
sufficient food, and there had frequently been
disturbances on the subject. As far as he knew,
11 nt manu whites visited the women at the Mission.”
And while admitting one terrific row at Wan-
garesda, he said “ drink was the cause of that dis-
turbance; it was caused by Lizzie Kennedy being
drunk.” Well, after th but wheel in the harp
that several times, etc.:—
DISENCHANTED.
(Inscribed to Gribble.)
If we believe that swarthy Sybil,
Another idol s shattered, Gribble!
The place is not—why, who'd have thought it ?
A little bit like you report it f
We thought, wueudown ourgreed we’re planking,
With holy havens it was ranking;
The gins were flights to heaven winging,
And passed the day in pray'r and singing.
You tola us these things, Gribble, you did;
It's “rats,” sir, to be so deluded!
What is this place—the pub. is handy
Where half-castes stick up flasks of brandy,
And girls we thought were straw-hat weavers
Are putting down, in bars, long-sleevers ?
The game's up, Gribble, ’tis no use!
Shut up the shop and let them loose.
[ln connection with this matter, we may state
th it, ip tb® face of overwhelming evidence, bptl*
verbal and circumstantial, the Bench decided to
dismiss the two charges against the publican. This
is a decision which deserves to be written up on
every wall in the colony— in mud.— Ed. B.]
At the Secularists’ meeting on Saturday,
Mr. William Riohardson, the well-known disturber
of public meetings, charged the Secularists with
maintaining as an axiom that “whatever is, is
right.” The phrase is centuries old, and is magni-
ficently set, like a jewel of price in a splendid
parure, in Pope’s *“ Essay on Man.” For Mr.
Richardson’s instruction, we| may mention—al-
though it will be no information to any educated
and cultivated man—that this Essay has been the
subject of much controversy, but was pronounced
by the devout Dr. Johnson “ an egregious instance
of the predominance of genius, the dazzling splen-
dour of imagery, and the seductive powers of
eloquence.” Bishop Warburton declares that “ the
Essay is a real vindication of Providence against
lihertuies and atheist, who quarrel with the pre-
sent distribution of things and deny a future state
To those the poet answers that ‘whateveris, is
right; ’ and assigns, as a reason, that we see only a
part and not the whole.” And the Rev. Dr. Croly,
who edited Pope’s works, remarks that “ the ob-
ject of the Essay is, to vindicate Providence, by
proving that the moral and physical evils of nature
combine in the general good.” The thesis is, in
fact, one of abstract philosophy, not of dogmatic
significance, and is indifferently regarded with
more or less favour by Christians, Mahomedans,
and Rationalists. That is, there are Christians,
Mahomedans, and Rationalists who agree with it,
and Christians, Mahomedans, and Rationalists who
contest it, just as there are differences on the point
among the pagan philosophei‘B. However, we
don’t suppose Mr. Richardson can understand what
we have written, and we are sure he won’t try to.
So we will just conclude by quoting the lines in
which Pope uses the phrase. (“ Essay on Man,”
book i., 288 to conclusion.)
“ All Nature is but art unknown to thee;
All chance, direction, which thou canst not see;
All discord, harmony not understood;
All partial evil, universal good;
And, spite of pride, in erring reason’s spite,
One truth is clear;—whatever is, is right.”
Mr. Richardson’s inference, we observe, is that
persons who agree with the above hold themselves
relieved from all moral obligations. He charges
the Secularists with so agreeing, and said to them
on Saturday, at their meeting, “You can do no
wrong; whatever is, is right. Murder is right;
incest is right, and rohbery is right.” In view of
these expressions, we venture, timidly, to hint
that Mr. Richardson’s philosophic capacity is
limited. He could, for example, without being
inconvenienced, stow all his intellectual faculties
in his cheek.
That Central Board of Health in Mel-
bourne, will go down to posterity as a paragon of
something. If not willing to go down, it stands a
good chance of being kicked down. Berry
shielded it in the early stages, but finally got tired.
Dr. Rose regularly got up in the House when
somebody with wit larded with malice would shy
an epithet at it, and with a voice between Elijah’s
and David’s, cried, “ I’m a member of it.” Then
people, who aforetime slept, awoke suddenly and
groaned. Here’s the Board stripped and in action:
A rash breaks out on Smith. It may be small-pox,
it may be chicken-pox, and it may not be either.
The Board whacks away at the subject, and just as
Smith has got better and is going out to start
work, the Board decides to isolate him. It cleverly
collars Smith at the foot of the street, and runs
him into the hospital. Smith swears; but, as the
publio health is concerned, the Board stands that.
What is it there for but to guard the public health ?
But Jones is also in the hospital with a broken leg,
and his wife comes fooling about every day to see
him. The hospital authorities shake their heads
and say, “ This is dangerous. It may be chicken-
pox ails Smith, but it may be small-pox, and al-
though it mayn’t be either, he ought to be runout
of here.” They tell Smith that. Smith gets the
door ajar and scurries down town. The Board
learns it and catches him next morning, and runs I
him out to the Sanatorium. Then it says, “Ha,
ha!” and wires congratulations to the Chief-Secre-
tary. The Chief-Secretary gets up in the House,
and in answer to an inquisitive member, reads the
telegram, and says, “Ha, ha!” Then Dr. Rose
rises in his place and says, “ I'm a member of the
Board.” In the meantime, a rash breaks out on
Mrs. Brown’s two children. It may be small-pox,
it may be chicken-pox, and it mayn’t be either.
The Board asks her to bring the children up. Then
it asks if she lias other members in the family.
She says she has. It then sends her home with the
children to give the other members a good chanee
of catching the disease, and says there will be news
next day. Next day it learns that Mrs. Jones has
been staying with the family, and sees at once that
it was Smith’s complaint that had got around. So
the Board determines to quarantine Mrs. Brown’s
house with Mrs. Jones and all inside. Two police-
men are put on duty. Up and down, up and down,
all day, all night, go the bobbies. “ Begorra,” says
one, next day, “it’s quare. There’s no one stir-
ring.” “ Begorra 1” says the other. They send
word to the Board. The Board hurries down,
opens the door, but there is no one there. It is the
wrong house entirely. Then the Board wires to
the Chief-Secretary, and on an inquisitive member
asking for information, the Chief-Secretary rises
in his nlace and says, “ Ha, ha!” and Dr. Rose gets
up and says, “ I’m a member of the Board,” and
the curtain drop* on the Board’s exploits. If that
does not merit for it to go down to posterity as a
paragon, surely, it merits for it the accommoda-
tion of a kick down.


Giticura
fa'/J
rtf
»
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
Scrofula on neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
DIBFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
r<heum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Byes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Gopper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with ioss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patohes in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Bores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enaemia, Pyaemia,Leucorrhcea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure,or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
ave cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Purl
fler, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonou®
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh!
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura,
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, o "easy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemists and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prp pared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston
U.B.A.
TKTlllaao.©re’s Palace HCotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDN®
THE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License, is now
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL in conjunction with the well-
known Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 3. Every accommodation for country
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mail boats and intercolonial steamers
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.
W. H. PALING
AND CO. (Limited).
4
TOftcSS
,' ! Hi! lillltjllHlilllltlllllilllllllß
eip>
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
BF THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
V. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANKQF NEW 800TH WALES,
Compagnoni Catering Company (Limited).
The Leading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.B.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &c.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations.
.. The and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties up-stairs.
PRIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in tho Bar until 11 pm.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
33
rm
-■ «■ v ) .
i 'ii, Hl‘iiltniillhiwill'l
\u v WBL\
"Nb i»i »* fir»•*»»». »i f|>» *
Isbsk!
SOLE AGENTB FOR THE
SMITH OSGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
BICYCLES! TRICYCLES! BICYCLES!
The Sparkbrook National Tricycle,
with patent differential gearing, undoubtedly the easiest hill-climber in the
market.
The Sparkbrook Bicycle,
BALL BEARINGS, PRICE FROM 10 GUINEAS.
BAYLISS THOMAS. & CO.’S EXCELSIOR 13-GUINEA BICYCLE,
as ridden by Mr. A. Edward from Sydney to Melbourne.
Agent: C. W. BENNETT, 68 King-st., Sydney.
WHOLESALE IMPORTERS :
TOZER GO.,
229 CLARENCE STREET.
PRICE LIBTS ON APPLICATION.
HUDSON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
UNEQUALLED SAFETY. *»“ EXTREME SIMPLICITY. f3T" GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
■mm
mar
v - IT ™-
■T>- ■' i - i^ 1 : :^.
■ -
„
u
/////////////A
/A
//
"V.
A
>■*»
■ju
- :
!H
>
>ja
n*
4®
f//
/////////
//>
///
-
See
***“ SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. VST SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c„ to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Recent-street, Redfern,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.


WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury
friends are generous and affectionate ; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOB THE GUIDANCE OF OTHEB8.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
1 was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, I
used it myself, the result being that I was myself
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you are at liberty to make
what use you please of this.
Fours,
w „ John Kkut.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney.
ITCH ! ITCH ! ITCH !
Scratch! Scratch! Scratch!
Every species of Itching humours, Baker's Bar-
ber’s, Grocer’s, and Washerwoman’s Itch, Itching
Piles, and delicate irritations peculiar to both
s-xes, instantly relieved by a warm bath with
Cuticuba Soap and a single application of Cuti-
CUBA, the great Skin Cure. This, repeated daily,
with two or three doses of the Cuticuba Resol-
vent, the new blood purifier, to keep the blood
cool, the bowels open, and the liver and kidneys
active, will speedily and permanently cure Itching
Tortures of the Skin and Scalp that have defied
the best medical skill and all known remedies.
Just after Christmas of lb70,1 was laid up
with an obstinate Cough, together with Spitting
of Blood, accompanied with some fever—from the
joint effects of which I was greatly weakened, and
became rapidly reduced. Following the best
advice I could get, I tried various medicines, but
none apparently done much good, leaving me low
spirited enough. I made up my mind at last to
try Dr. Jayne’s Expectorant, and procured some.
I used it carefully as directed, and gradually got
rid of my complaint.— Wm. A. C. Pyle, Tamar on,
Perry County, Wig. To be had of all druggists and
storekeepers, and wholesale by Elliott
Pitt-strcet, Sydney.
A FUNNY FUNERAL .
“ Wesuppose,” we said to Mould, theunder-
taker, one day, as we leaned gracefully against a
coffin, waiting for what Alfred calls the “demo-
niacal devastator,”—we suppose that you have
Been many curious funerals in your time ?” “ Yes,
indeed I have—many a one since I buried Lord
Nelson,” he replied “ Did you bury Lord Nelson ?”
we said, surprised. “ Yes,” he answered carelessly,
“it was a genteel turn-out—so was Wellington’s ?”
“Did you bury Wellington, too?” we exclaimed.
“I should think I did,” he replied, leisurely pick-
ing his teeth with a thighbone: “I came out here
after that, and began burying this crowd. It is a
light and pleasant occupation. It neither stains
your Augers nor encroaches upon your night’s
rest. It at once cheers your spirits and imparts a
tone to your constitution, and, by reason of its
solemnity, gives a majesty to your conversa-
tional powers which they would not otherwise
possess. The bad ani worthless, you may have
beard, sir,” he continued, with emotion, “ are
never imitated. You may have heard this Quota-
tion.” “Never!" wo cried, emphatically. “In-
deed 1 ” was his surprised rejoinder; “it is at every
picnic—read that motto, and it may save your life.
But this is irrelevant. I was about to allude to
funerals of which —” “ You have had a vast
experience. You have,” wo went on, “it is gene-
rally understood, buried not only Brutus and
Julius Caesar, but brave Coriolanus, as well. But
when, may we ask, was a funeral conducted by you
whioh presented features extraordinary enough
for an especial chronicling?” Mould paused for
a moment, and scraped his eyebrow, meditatively
with a coffin-plate. At length, he said, rumina-
tively, “ Since the obsequies of George 111., whom
I doubled up in his cherry-case with my own fair
hands, the case most worthy of your attention is
one I attended to within the last few months.’ l
“ What was that ?” we inquired—“ not Luscombe ?”
“ No, no, sir—not him! Luscombe is still alive—l
should say, barely alive. However, if you don't
mind listening with attention, and accepting of my
poor hospitality, I will tell you all about it ”
There was something about Mould which inspired
us with confidence. We had learned that he was
revered at the pub. over the way, and that his re-
putation in the neighbourhood assured him daily
the delivery, on credit, of several vegetables. On
being inducted into the emporium of chaste and
elegant appendages for the dead, Mr. M. took a
bottle of brandy out of a misfit coffin, and began
as follows:—“ An old man—a father- had died, and
he hadn’t been popular with the family. The
chief complaint against him, I believe, was be-
cause he had lived too long. His oc ■ ■■ “What
was the matter with his hook ?” we interpolated,
mildly, as he suddenly broke off. “ His octogena-
rianism," continued he, eyeing us sterniy, “ was
the oause of his unpopularity. Well, he died; and
they sent for me to measure him for a stained
£lue and tin-plater. I measured him accordingly,
ned the coffin with cretonne—bird and tree pat-
tern—and fitted him in it as tight as a cork in a
bottle. And there he lay. all next day, in the
Bay—• Bxcuse me,” he said, breaking oif again,
and blushing, “but I was always of a musical
turn. I should have said, there he lay in his new
coffin as neat a corpse on the half-shell as anyone
would wish to see.” After this little professional
joke the undertaker smiled grimly, then taking a
draught out of the skull which served for a
tumbler, and passing it to us, he continued.
“Now, I have a theory, though I have buried
hundreds in my time, that no subject is really
dead when interred.” “ Wny, you don’t mean to
sav you have buried people alive ?” we cried.
“Sir!” was the indignant response, “I am an
honest man. When a corpse is delivered into my
hands -my terms,” he said, carelessly, taking a sip
out of the ghostly goblet, “ are cash on delivery—l
bury that corpse, willy-nilly. But, mind you,”
said he, impressively, just wetting his lips with the
necropolisian [I ! Ed. U] chalice, “but mind you,
I give that corpse every chance, f merely nail
the lid on in a superficial manner, and my hearse
is fitted with a check-string and a talk-tube, in
order, should a ‘ stiff-'un ’ think better of it on the
road, he can communicate with the driver. Well,
the night before the imposing procession was to
come off, I met the eldest son. He was dressed in
the dee nest mourning, even to his watch-chain,
and his face was set with the orthodox expression
of unutterable woe. He was just coming out of a
public-house, and an odour alike of rum and
sanctity pervaded him. I was, out of delicacy,
about to pass on, when he accosted me He said,
‘ Mould, old bird, will you take something ?’ Out
of sympathy for his sorrow, 1 did take something.
I think it was—let me see ’’ [We hastened to
assure him that it was of no consequence.] “ I
think itwaB,”he said, musingly, “a spirit princi-
pally distilled in Queensland, mingled with a
cordial fantastically known as peppermint. Once
more in the street the bereaved son said, ‘Of
course, we're very sorry—(have a cigar ?)—and all
that about the old boy turning his toes up—(got a
light?) -but we feel it would be sinful to be osten-
tatious in our sorrow. You couldn’t,' he went on,
dropping his voice, * you couldn’t, I suppose, get a
man to cart him to Waverley on a barrow before
sunrise, could you? No? Well, his last words—
he died in my arms-(d—n bad cigar this!)—his
last words were * Send me to the Golden Shore as
cheaply as possible.’ That’ll tell you! And, look
at his epitaph, composed by himself when his
family could spoon oatmeal into him no longer:—
Oh, mind you, mason, chip this very cheap
For soon I shall be in my little shroud;
Aloft you’ll see me—therefore do not weep—
A-tootling softly on a fleecy cloud.
Pretty, ain’t it ? I’ve arranged everything by con-
tract. It’s to be cut on a second-hand slate, up-
right, at 2d. a letter. ‘ It’s rather,’ he remarked
In a voice of regret, ‘ a waste of money, but you
only lose your father once a year—l mean it
doesn’t often occur. Well, then, as the wheel-
barrow-touch won’t gee to waft (give us a draw of
the pipe) the deceased to the silent tomb (this is
ruby tobacco, I’ll swear!) you’d better rattle him
to Waverley yourself.” ‘ But,’ I said, ‘ how
about the relations and friends that you’ve adver-
tised for to attend the obsequies ?’ He drew me
up a right-of-way, and said, with a hoarso chuckle,
“I've given ’em the wrong address!’ ‘Thatvoung
man, as doubtless will occur to you,’ said Mould,
pitting the skull affectionately, ‘had a master
mind.’ To get on, however, I agreed; and by
half past ten, sharp, the mortal remains of the
late Mr. Shrubot were ensconced in the hearse. I
drove slowly up Oxford-street, and we’d hardly
got as far as Riley's when I felt a vicious tug at
ihe check-string. I broke into a cold sweat. It
was the corpse ! I bent my ear to the tube and
listened. All of a sudden, a rather weak voice
from inside said: ‘Which lock-up am I in?
‘Hush!' I said, in a conciliatory tone. ‘ Hush be
jammed?’ cried the corpse; ‘tell my son Billy to
come and bail me out.’ Then the lid gave a crack-
ing sound, aud I felt that he was sitting up.
* Here ! Sergeant!’ cried the body, now in sten-
torian tones, while I hastily turned up a tide
street. Reaching a secluded spot, I descended, and
hastily opened the hearse-door. There, sitting
amongst the remains of the lid of a two-pound-
tenner was the body. ‘ls this a pub.?’ enquired
he, peering into the sunshine; *if it is, I want
to shout.” * But you’ve no money,’ I urged.’
“Haven't I,” cried the corpse, nearly laughing the
roof off the hearse. “ They put a florin over each
of my eyes, and I collared them when the old
womau wasn’t looking. When the money was
missed, they blamed you. Ho, ho!” In a great
dilemma I endeavoured to -irect a compromise.
, If,’ I said persuasively, * you will agree
to be buried like a decent corpse, you shall
have any refreshment, whatever in short
you require. He was much amused at this,
and instantly demanded a bottle of square
gin, a penny whistle, and a sausage-roll. “Go
slow,’ said the corpse, when these articles had
been supplied, ‘ and keep as much away from the
trams as possible. They are very dangerous.’ We
then resumed our journey, and in intervals of gin-
drinking and sausage-roll munching, he played
popular music upon the penny-whistle. At Wool-
lahra junction, he pulled the string, and called so
loudly for port-wine and cayenne-pepper, that I
had to crack the whip vio'ently to prevent his
being heard by the passers-by. On our arrival at
“I got my hat smashed, and the ourate was sent head foremost into the grave.”
the cemetery, being too early for the clergyman, he
challenged me to euchre on a flat tombstone at a
shilling a game. At length the parson hove in
sight, and I endeavoured to coax him back into the
coffin, putting to him how disappointed his rela-
lions would be if anything happened to the
fuuerai, .iius adjured he lay down in the two-
pound-tenner, and I adjusted the lid to the best of
my ability with a couple of rusty nails and a Cor-
poration pick. Hardly was the impressive service
begun, than, bang ! crash 1 and off came the lid
again. ‘Hold on!’ cried the body, sitting up,
‘ I'm not going to be had. I’ve been overcharged
last week half-a-pint in mymilk bill, and I forgot
to tell the boys to dock it,’ We tried to get him baok
into the coffin, but it was of no use: and in the
icqffie that ensued I got my bat smashed, and the
curate Iwas sent flying head foremost into the
grave. “ What did you do then, Mr. Mould ?” we
enquired, breathlessly, as the hirer-out of sables
coquetted with the cup sinister. “ Oh,” he replied,
“ there was nothing for it but to take him home
again; so I got him the loan of an ulster (never
since returned), and drove him back outside the
coach. And he arrived home just in timo to see a
policeman having dinner with the Missis, and the
two boys fighting in the front garden over his
watch-chain.” “We suppose,” we said, “ that he
thanked you very much for your kindness ” “ Did
he? ” was the reply; “ he pulled me a month after-
wards for false imprisonment, and got 40s.
damages.” “ Funny funeral, wasn’t it ?” said the
Shboud reporter. “That’s all true, of course,”
we gasDed. “True as death,” was the reply.
“ Have anything before you go ?” he asked. “ No,
thanks,” we murmured, ‘we can’t hold any
more.” And, with a groan, we left him.
During the last thirty years, the popula-
tion of the Isle of Skye has decreased from
21,521 to 5700. Emigration and starvation. They
have gone beyond the Skye, let us hope. But how
in thunder—unless there is a separate heaven for
the Scotch—they are going to join the choir invisi-
ble without bagpipes, beats us. And this suggests
to us that, as the fashionable musical instrument
in heaven is the harp, the angels are evidently
Irish. Which settles the long-disputed question
—first raised by the Early Fathers—as to whether
there is whisky in heaven. It will take something
to shake our religion after this!
What’s this we hear from Gundaroo ?
(We give this paragraph in rhyme)
One passed away at eighty-two—
And you would fancy it was time—
(She passed away at eighty-three,
But what’s a year when dead is she ?)
Unto the great majority.
They called her an old land-mark, too,
This poor old dame of Gundaroo.
Now, what we say is that we’re sick
Of these stale phrases—we have read
Them long enough. Get something new 1
Or else, O scribe of Gundaroo!—
If we should ever meet with you,
And our right hand can wield a brick,
You too will join the silent dead.
It is now painfully evident that our daily
journals have at last made their way across to the
land of pop-corn and presidents, and to their bane-
ful presence is attributed the rapid spread of
what is most appropriately known as bed-quilt
journalism. Over here the game is called “ pad-
ding,” and consists in the art of employing 225
words to express a live-word idea, and then indulg-
ing in a vain-glorious flapdoodle over the spirited
enterprise which enabled the proprietors to secure
the notion. The Chicago papers appear to be the
| principal offenders “over thar,” and this is the
style the San Francisco Argonaut goes for the
journalistic duffers:—” If some old ram-shackle of
a barn blows down, the Chicago papers devote a
whole page to the sad disaster. There will be a
diagram of the premises; view of the barn before
being blown down; view of the barn while being
blown down; view of the ruins; interview with
the hired man, who said he always knowed it was
a-goinp to biow down; interview with the owner,
with his and other theories on barns blowing down;
interview with Professor Mugwump, the distin-
guished Chicago savant, with his views as to the
reason why barns blow down rather than up; com-
parative table of barn mortality in this and other
States for the last forty years, showing percentage
of barns blowing down compared with the illiter-
ate vote; history of barns from the earliest times
to the present; statement of loss—five hundred
dollars. And does a suffering Chicago public read
this? Great Scott, no I Nobody reads it but the
proof-reader; not even the men who write it-
they haven’t time. It serves, however, as a peg to
hang a boast upon concerning enterprise." Quid
rides, Messieurs Sydney Dailies ? Change but the
name, and the self-same remarks most aptly apply
to you. '
Belyando Jimmy is the name of a lord of
the soil at Charters 'l owers who is evidently
down the hill fast, and who, if not speedily
formed, will ultimately bring: his parents’
hairs with sorrow to the boneyard. First of »if
Jimmy started his career of crime by Dei-sonn
the Warden’s orderly, bailing up acamDnf
Mongolian miners and coolly easing them of th*
coin for their license fees. For this he was boosi«H
up for six months. Next, he borrowed a bottle of
rum from behind a bar while the publican wasn’t
looking, and for this he was treated to another
half year’s stretch in a dungeon cell. Now he haa
just been sent up for six months more for stealing
a sore-eyed yaller dorg, and from the disreputable
way in which he has conducted himself since hi«
incarceration it is evident he is on the downward
road which leads to either a Northern J.P -ship or
a position of dignity in the Queensland House’ of
Parliament.
Alt PoDg and Co., Hughenden (Q.) store
keepers, make a little fun out of Belshazzar and
his Feast in an adv. puffing their wares, and the
Australasian objects to what it calls thair
“disrespectful audacity” in so doing. Now where
in thunder does the disrespect come in ? who and
what was Belshazzar, that a respectable Chinaman
mayn’t have a shot at him ? Is it because his storv
is told in the Bible that we must speak of him and
his big spree and its sensational close with bated
breath ? The Australasian was always an ultra
Tory rag; but, by the memory of old Voltaire it"
out-Jeameses the Chadbandest of Jcameses when
it preaches the propriety of swallowing the story
of Belshazzar with reverential unction. We pre-
sume that any fellow who poked fun at the Bath-
sheba incident in David’s life, or the very much
marriedness of Solomon, or the veritas of Noah in
vino, or the capers of Lot with his daughters
would have to share with Ah Pong and Co. the
anathemas of the Australasian. Luckily, how-
ever, these anathemas fall like the great Lord
Cardinal’s curse, for which (as it is written) nobody
was a penny the worse.
This, of course, took place in another
colony. Telegraph messenger, whilst swabbing
out the floor, picks up an important business tele-
gram, directed to Mr. Bull, the sharebroker, which
had been accidentally dropped behind a pile of
books the week b fore. Bull, finding he has lost
something like fifteen hundred pounds by the
delay, writes a stiff note to the Superintendent
demanding full compensation for the loss. Three
weeks after, he receives the following cheerful
note:—" Sir, I have the honour to inform you that
your message of the 23rd instant was unavoidably
detained through an interruption on our lines. I
have to inform you also that in no case is the
Electric Telegraph Department liable for delays
mistakes, &c., to any amount over £5. I have the
honour to be,” &c. Whether this will hold good in
law remains to bo seen, but, anyway, the broker
has since learnt that, although the Department is
only responsible fora “fiver,” still he can, if he
pleases, summon the boy who mislaid the message,
tor the full amount. This is exceedingly generous
on the part of the authorities, and as the unfor-
tunate messenger only receives 10s. a week, it will
take him something like 47 years to work off his
liability. Any other Department would have been
euchred in the Supreme Court immediately.
Satan reproving sin is rough enough in its
way, but when a skittish old Frenchman feels
compelled to lecture his craw-thumping, Bible-
banglng English neighbours on the Social Purity
question, we arc inclined to think the acme of
“ cheek ” has been reached, and there is nothing
left for the nation reproached but to roll over and
die on the spot—from laughter. And yet, when
we comj to inquire into the real facts of the case,
the matter isn’t half so ludicrous after all. For ex-
ample, that giddy old frog-punisher, Max O’Rell,
in his " John Bull et Son lie,” declares that in nine
out of every ten divorce cases tried in England,
the co-respondent is an officer in Her Majesty’s
service. ** An officer,” Max explains, “is a gentle-
man, and having nothing particular to do in the
piping times of peace, ffie is fond of keeping his
hand iu by shooting over other men’s preserves.”
Very neatly put, Max, old man ; but, you
see, it’s a way they’ve got in the Army.
Another matter which fairly lifts Mr. O’Bell
clean out of his boots with surprise, is the
kindly interest which some English ladies
take in their men-servants—especially in those
who are connected with the groom’s department.
On this rather ticklish subjeot the old man waxes
warm, and declares “it frequently happens that
the co-respondent in an English divorce case is a
young, well-made, vigorous groom, as one may
easily see by the accounts in the daily papers.”
This particular sample of co-respondent begins at
the spur; it is not far to the garter, the path is
attractive, and— que voulez vous? “ From July Ist,
1882. till January Ist, 1883, I counted no less than
seven cases of these favoured young flunkies in
the newspapers. How many more are there still
enjoying their good fortune on the quiet ? ” We
give it up; but if rumour speaks correctly touch-
ing this frisky subject, we ourselves are—to use
the great Sir’Enry’s words—"more English than
the English race itself is.”
* This story was, we understand, offered to and
refused by toe editor of the Shroud. He feared
it would offend bis constituents,—Bo. B«


THE
IGNO
WM'■Will
&
illSfini* 41 ':*
.W
THE
Migrnon
IFX^ILTO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in-
troduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and
Finish.
THE
X=X-A.XTO
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Mig-non
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Piano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON.
THE
"W" ilmer
PliilTO
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESSI
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED I
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY I
PERFECTION OF TOUCH I
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF J
THE
"W" ilmer
gT Illustrated catalogues of the "MIGNON,”
WILMEI't,” and all other good instruments, to
had on application.
NICHOLSON - and go.,
325 George-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
MOULTONS
FRUIT
B.VER I £?T I J L Ai NT P° sitivel y cured by MOULTON'S
■Miulr PILLS. We mean eured, not merely relieved, and
we can. prove what we say. There are no failures and no
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
Prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
simulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
IHE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
mown, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit),
•they are as nearly perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Solti Everywhere, Price 3a. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner -
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
Mat spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss ol
Appetite, Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, General Prostration, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once removes all craving
for Alcohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
Pther powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
iae whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case.
*old everyw Here. Sole Pronrletors. MARBHALL
BROTHERS, M.P.8., Manufacturing and consult*
tag Chemists, 104 and 106 Market-street, near
Hyde Park Svdnov ** »• -An Imitations illegal.
Take no substitute,
AYER’S
Hair Vigor
restores, with the gloss and freshness of
youth, faded or gray hair to a natural, rich
brown color, or deep black, as may be desired.
By its use light or red hair may be darkened,
thin hair thickened, and baldness often,
though not always, cured.
It checks falling of the hair, and stimu-
lates a weak and sickly growth to vigor. It
prevents and cures scurf and dandruff, and
heals nearly every diseaso peculiar to tlio
scalp. As a Ladies’ Ilair Dressing, tha
Vigor is unequalled; it contains neither oil
nor dyo, renders the hair soft, glossy, and
silken in appearance, and imparts a delicate,
agreeable, and lasting perfume.
Mb. C. P. Brioiier writes from Kirby, 0..
July 3, 1882 : “ Last fall my hair commenced
falling out, and in a short time 1 became
nearly bald. I used part of a bottle of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor, which stopped the fall-
ing of the hair, and started a new growth. I
have now a full head of hair growing vigor-
ously, and am convinced that but for the
use of your preparation I should have been
eutirely’bald.”
J. W. Bowen, proprietor of the McArthur
(Ohio) Enquirer, says : “Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is a most excellent preparation for the hair.
1 speak of it from my own experience. Its
use promotes the growth of new hair, and
makes it glossy and soft. The Vigor is also
a sur-e cure for dandruff. Not within my
knowledge has the preparation ever failed
to give entire satisfaction.”
Mr. Angus Fairbairn, leader of the
celebrated “Fairbairn Family” of Scottish
Vocalists, writes from Boston, Mass., Feb. 6,
1880 : “ Ever since my hair began to give sil-
very evidence of the change which iieeting
tune procureth, I have used Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and so have been able to maintain
an appearance of youthfulness—a matter of
considerable consequence to ministers, ora-
tors, actors, and in fact every one who lives
in the eyes of the public.”
Mrs. O. A. Prescott, writing from 18 Elm
St., Charlestown, Mass., April 14, 1882, says :
“ Two years ago about two-thirds of my hair
came off. It thinned very rapidly, and I was
fast growing bald. On using Ayer’s Hair
Vigor the falling stopped and a new growth
commenced, and in about a month my head
was completely covered with short hair. It
has continued to grow, and is now as good as
before it fell. I regularly used but one bottle
of the Vigor, but now use it occasionally as
a dressing.”
We have hundreds of similar testimonials
to the efficacy of Ayer’s Hair Vigor. It
needs but a trial to convince the most skepti-
cal of its value.
PREPARED BY *>■
Dr.J C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell,Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agent?.
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especiallv
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ XALTDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from anv
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a and per-
manent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED
Medals Gamed against the World
At
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. W ARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
* Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
either Spray, Methyhne, and Chloroform.
DEAFNESS I—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed by
those eminent aurists, the Senior Surgeons of the
TWO London Royal Ear Inlirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hannaford,
Auckland, New Zealand.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
uiiht CftBe * * or 8& e ' pply Publisher, Btolutiw
COLL/f
BLEND
[trade]
jmarx!
Ji
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-This Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
oming fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
IST 308 GEORGE STREET.
CELEBRfiV*:
°^9rotcW^
m
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80Le”aGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
(ST” MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
BULTAN’S COFFEE,
Y$t ilcox
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
BEWING
MACHINES
Mangle an 1
wringer, £4 10
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn BhellerB
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
WAlndi
wood,
&G-. dCC. &0.
HEBBLE WHITE & CO.,
116 GEORGE STREET.
'A -’ey
M
*
s
HOT WATCfT BATHS
HAJR DRfrS3INC&VI ( |i;MAKING ESTAELISWiEN
.< 13/ !39 X* 141 OXF.jRu\vS T
HALF /LOL/DA YFt/£/; Y T/YUXSOAY
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnsss, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all functional Derangements Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. CAUTION
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosnhodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS*
MATRIMONIAL.— Parents and those newly-
married may obtain much valuable informa-
tion, which may prevent years of suffering by
simply sending a stamped addressed envelope for
reply, to C. C. W., Box 766 G.P.0., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
R»
B
8
S
6-
Ofi
£
'o>
<*
p*
*6
3
u>
O
*
i/>
0)
<
&
r>
&
r
s
3&
o
itt>
o
ts
$
%
S
&
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
T±i.e ISeliafble
33vLg'g"ies!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY
HORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
EP“ BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of "
DIViNG GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, Sea.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmith!no.
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fltt!n!f S
of every description. B
DOULTON-S -FLUSH-OUT,” “ CLOSETS, - VACUUM ” WATE K-WASTE
So/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particular? and price on application. **


READ IT ALL.
It may Save your Life.
hop bitters
ARB
The Purest and Best
Medicine ever made.
THEY ARE COMPOUNDED FROM
Hops, Buchu, mandrake, and Dandelion.
The Oldest, Best, most Renowned,
‘and Valuable Medicines in the World,
‘and in addition contain all the best
‘ and most effective curative properties
‘ of all other bitters, being the greatest
‘ Liver Regulator, BLOOD PURIFIER,
‘ and life and health restoring agent on
‘ earth.”
They Give New Life and Vigour to the Age
and Infirm.
“To Clergymen, Lawyers, Literary
* Men, Labourers, Ladies, and all those
‘whose sedentary employments cause
‘irregularities of the Blood, Stomach
‘ Bowels, or Kidneys, or who require an
‘ Appetizer, Tonic, and mild Stimulant,
‘these Bitters are invaluable, being
‘ highly curative, tonic, and stimulating,
‘ without intoxicating. ’
“No matter what your feelings of
* symptoms are, or what the disease or
‘ailment is, use Hop Bitters. Don’t
‘ wait until you are sick, but if you only
‘ feel bad or miserable, use the Bitters at
‘once. It may safe your life. Hun-
‘dreda have been saved by so doing, at
‘ a trifling cost.”
Ask your Druggist or Physician.
“Do not suffer yourself or let your
‘ friends suffer, but use and urge them to
‘ use Hop Bitters.”
“Remember, Hop Bitters is no vile,
‘drugged, drunken nostrum, but the
‘purest and best Medicine ever made,
‘and no person or family should be
‘ without it.”
HOP BITTERS MANUFACTURING CO.
Melbourne, Australia, Rochester, N. Y.,U. S
A., Toronto, London, Antwerp, Paris.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatanteed.
WeakNervousMen
&
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
and failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON bolus.
Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Jiervous Debility and
, , , Physical Decay isumforml ?
successful because based on perfect diagnosis
new and direct methods and absolute thor.
oushness. Full information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO., 52Castlereagh St., Sydney
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing- all the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
NORRIE and MAYERS.
Factory and Warehouse.
317 & 319, KENT-STREET, SYDNEY
WONDERFUL DISCOVERY IN SOAP
BORAX SOAP. BORAX SOAP.
For use in Cold or Hot Water.
Cheaper than Coram on Household Soap,
Lasts Three Times as Long.
FOR KITCHEN AND SCULLERY USE.
FOR LINEN, WOODWORK, AND TOILET,
And Every Purpose about the House.
Will Wash in Brackish or Hard Water,
It Heals, and Cleanses, and Purities.
HALF A BAR WILL DO YOUR WASHING,
Sold by every Grocer.
Wholesale by
LEWIS AND WHITTY,
Sole Manufacturers,
76 Clarence-street,
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Full Jamlieroo.
Sad is the story we tell to you;
Sad Is the story, but all too true;
Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!
Town that was famed for its merry crew,
Who drained each draught with a wild halloo—
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
They drank all night of a mighty brew,
And shook in the hat till the cock it crew
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo !)
Merrily then the moments flew
At nap. and euchre and dice and loo—
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
Cheerfully then the time they slew
The gay, glad hours, that were all too few—
{Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
Many and many a cork they drew.
Many a bottle they drained, pardicu
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo .')
Whom the town’s freedom was given to,
Instead of a key, got a gay corkscrew —
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
They were the boys, you bet, who knew
I he way to drink and the way to woo—
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
Until the fame of the town it flew
J'ke whole of the whole wide country through—
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
Also, its name to a by-word grew
For whisky-supper or wild snivoo—
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
But, p’raps, you wonder why we pursue
This strain, and ask, as you well may do,
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
What the glory was, and where gone to,
And what in thunder it is to you ?
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
We’ll tell you fairly, in verses few:
There fell on the town a madness new—
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
Christian and Heathen, and Turk and Jew
Got it, and gave up the mountain-dew
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
To drink of a terrible Temp’rance brew,
That stuck in the mouth like molten glue.
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
They wore in their coats a ribbon blue;
The dogs and the horses wore it, too
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
And everything that could baa or boo,
Or howl or yowl or miaul or moo.
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
They gave up liquor—we tell you true I
And nap., and euchre, and dice, and 100
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
Till each grew thin as a billiard-cue,
And yellower than a dead bamboo.
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
They would not drink, and they would not chew
They would not gamble, except perdu—
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
Every woman became a shrew;
What else, sirs, would you— que voulez vous?
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
[Just make an end of it quickly, do,
Or else it’s highly probable you . *
Will follow the glory of Jamberoo.—Ed. B.]
Envy, and malice, and slander grew,
And vices many, and mean, and new—
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
Things got mixed as an Irish stew,
Till nobody cared, sirs, who was who
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
But quarrelled with no particular view.
Like apes you’ve probably seen in the Zoo.
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
From cold Kamschatka to hot Peru
There never was seen such a orazy crew.
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
Now, too late, on their heads they strew
Ashes, and weep in a wicker shoe.
(Gone is the glory of Jamberoo!)
80, sirs, whenever they ask of you
To renounce your rum for the Ribbon Blue.
Think of the glory of Jamberoo!
The ultra good persons in Victoria, who
assailed a church member because he had actually
taken a walk on the Sabbath, can scarcely have
quite appreciated the sense of the Gospel with
which they are always so ready to bang their
neighbours on the head. Their attitude reminds
us of the old Scotchwoman (living not far from
Balmoral) who criticised the Queen somewhat hos-
tilely for having ridden out on a Sunday. Met with
the retort that Christ Himself walked in the fields
and plucked ears of wheat on the Sabbath, the
orthodox old person (no doubt a member of the
Sabbath Protection Society) exclaimed, “ Ou, ave;
I ken all about that: and I dinna think ony the
better on Him for it 1 ”
The brave old days of Donuybrook almost
came to life again at Adelong Crossing recently.
An auctioneer started to sell some property there
under letters of administration. Certain interested
persons objected with rocks and bludgeons. The
auctioneer got several bifs over the head, and his
beard was nearly as widely distributed ns the re-
mains of the lamented Casabianca. He had a fac-
tion there, however, who stuck to him, and he
•* waded through blood unto a throne or, rather
a salt-beef barrel—and put the property through
in a mighty short time. Then all present ad-
journed to have their wounds dressed. One who
was there says it was the prettiest piece of fun he
had seen for many a day. We are glad to see this
fine old fighting spirit still lingers in remot
country places. Alas! it has passed away in tt>e
.pity iron] all but. aldermen and le#iBl%tqrs,
Vox Clamant!.
As the wind shakes the leaves from a tree
When it blows from the ice of the North,
So the nations will rise in their glee,
And will shake off the kings of the earth.
For the measure of wrong is complete,
And the peoples are rising in ire;
And the noise of the tramp of their feet
Is like to the roar of a fire.
Ye are scattered, ye rulers and kings;
Ye are slaves, that were masters so long ;
This age is the a?o of new things,
And the Risht is defeating the Wrong.
The edge of tho sword shall be stained
With the blood of the great of the land;
For ages the people retrained,
And used not the power of their hand.
But now they are rising in ire,
For the measure of wrong is complete:
As the i oar of the flame of a fire
Is the tramp of their terrible feet.
VANITY FAIR.
Evening costume at London balls is now
more decoUeUe than it has been lor years. The
British matron literally “ foams over ” the edge of
her bodice. Shoulder straps have almost entirely
vanished; and so, in cold weather, the modern
Englishwoman, when in full dress, is very likely to
feel cold. But it must not be supposed she is any
other than modest, for she wears very long gloves
and with the ostrich-like style of reasoning pecu-
liar to lovely woman, though she shows more than
a fair arena of shoulders, she rests complacently
satistied that no one can see her arms—The latest
story of Mary Anderson is that she is so devout as
to carry a rosary at the theatre and often count
her beads between the aots. Very likely; but she
shouldn’t. There's no harm in an ordinary man
saying a prayer or two before he goes out to cheat
another man in a little simple business transaction;
but for a pretty actress to invoke celestial aid, in
order that she may rouse to greater rapture the
in-ensate dudes, seems like using her personal at-
tractions to take an undue advantage in influencing
heaven “ How long,” asked the arithmetic
teacher, “ would it take six servants to attend to a
house, supposing it took one servant six hours ?”
“Oh, I know,” screamed little Ada; “just three
times as long. I heard ma say so.” Talking of
the shoddy aristocracy, of the Smiths who have
become De Smythes with a De, and the Tomkinses
who have developed into Fitz-Tomkynses with a
hyphen, Cockaigne says,in the Argonaut:— “The
Marquis of Normanby is another instance. His
title seems to be ancient, but it is not really.so.
He has not a drop of Normanby or Mulgrave
blood in him. His great-grandmother was the
widow of the Duke of Buckingham, who was also
then Marquis of Normanby and Baron Mulgrave.
She married a Mr. Phipps, and had by him a son,
Constantine. This son afterwards contrived to get
a re-creation of a title belonging to his mother’s
first husband, a man whom he had never seen, and
whose descendant he in no sense was. Phipps is now
the family name of the Normanby marquisate.”...
In view of the awkward uncertainty often felt
among bridal parties, it is proposed to have chalk
lines on the church floor to mark where eaoh per-
son should stand.... Laura Johnson, agitl of Wis-
consin, quarrelled with her lover on hearing that
she was only No. 3 to him, and tried to wrench her
engagement ring off. It was on tightly, and pick-
ing up a tomahawk, she severed ring and finger at
one blow and sent it t® her young man. It really
does seem hard to believe anyone could do suen
This graceful jabot is composed of cream
figured net with an edging of cream
laoe At the throat and waist it is
caught in with a single rose. As will
be seen, the lace is put only on one side
of the jabot and on the end which falls
below the waist.
a thing as this, except-a woman Here is
one of “Ouida’s ” bitter sayings: “Thereare many
things to be got by Society, and yet it asks very
little. Only wash the outside of your cup and
platter; inside, you may keep any kind of nasti-
ness you like, only do wash the outside, says
Society; and it would be an ass indeed who would
refuse so reasonable a request.” “Ouida” is
right; Society is a huge club, guided neither by
the laws of God nor of the State, but governed by
its own made laws, unwritten, reasonless. You
may ruin a dressmaker, or starve your washer-
woman of what you owe her—it’s no matter. But, if
you omit to pay party calls, or if you put a knife in
your mouth—Society will ostracise you There is
a movement in English society in favour of knee
breeches for gentlemen’s evening dress, and
several well-known society men have tried the
plan. Knee breeches are always derigueur in full
court costume Society likes euphemisms.
Cocotte is a word that is now printed and read, aiod
spoken freely in society, though society would
shiver if the English synonym reached its delicate
ears. To be protector to a ballet girl is not only a
recognised position held by most well-regulated
young nobles in the gilded circles, but no shame is
felt at it, Would there be if the exact synonym
for the word in lower class English were substi-
tuted ?—ln a Waverley car, a reputable Germnn
had given up his seat to a lady; when she got out,
he was about to resume, but another lady entered.
With national politeness, he again deferred to
weakness. A third time, ho attempted to struggle
towards an empty seat, when, before he could
reach it, a slobbery infant was deposited thereon
by a bustling young mother who pushed in, and
the German gentleman, losing his balance, fell
with a squashing thud on the precious babe. Then
the German gentleman drew himself up with dig-
nity, and he remarked to the car: ‘‘Veil, py
gracious! bud der nexd time dot I rides in dose
car, I got minfiself framed and hung up mitdem
advertisements. Oph, yus.”... .The great actress,
Rhea, is in ’Frisco, and the women have all Rhea
hats, Rhea gloves, Rhea skirts. In Sydney, too,
the fashionable women have plenty of rear He
was a well-known chess player, and, as they sat in
Compagnoni’s, had already inflicted on his com-
panion those hoary jokes, “ Chess s®,” “ A pawn
my word," when his grill appeared. Affecting to
smell it, he said, “I’ll have to send this back.
Can’t bear stale mate, you know.” Next
“Pop” is a very risque play now on at’Frisco, in
which the bright particular star is Kate Castleton.
This person is a very pretty young woman, with
a figure that is shapely down to her ankles. Her
feet are the most defective part of her anatomy,
and her auatomy is her principal capital. As an
antidote to her feet, she most artfully draws
attention to the most roguish possible face by a
particular hat, and all the pretty ’Frisco girls now
wear a “ Kate Castleton ” hat. But what makes
“ Pop ” popular is alleged to be its dresses. The
principal feature is that every girl seems to have
left most of her dress off At a performance of
“ The Ace of Clubs,” in Boston, a sensational scene
of wife murder was so realistic that a lady who
was carried out fainting has not since (six weeks
ago) recovered his sanity. Her husband has
instituted an action against the theatrical mana-
ger for £lO,OOO damages. A nice point
Tight trousers in London are going out. When
everyone wears the wide ones out here, there’ll be
no way of telling honest men from dudes —At
Hackney, near London, a dramatic evening was
given to a deaf audience, when scenes from the
n Sohool for Scandal ” were performed by deaf and
dumb actors, the dialogue being semaphored on
the fingers A belie who was ageing looked in
the glass and said, “ Why doesn’t Nature plant the
crow’s feet under our heels instead of our eyes ?”
Latest London style : A little girl walks in
front of the bride and bridegroom up the church.
On primrose day in London (19th April), lots of
ladies decorated their dogs with Beaconsfleld
bouquets.. .Says Flaneur, of New York theatres:
“ Drama has been a failure. Wherever trim, sym-
metrical, shockingly clad young women have
abounded, there has been wealth In the treasury.”
A French ball-room novelty is : Immense
blocks of ice on trays of silver; within, a hollow
is scooped for an electric lamp and the top
is shaped into a basin to hold wine or cream
or jelly. The effect can be imagined
If the Duke of Albany did no harm during life, he
certainly did quite a heap of it by dying, for his
death promises to be the ruin of the London sea-
son. It is calculated that no less than three and a
half millions sterling is generally expended by the
fashionable world during the four or five months
which constitute what is called the season, and
that that amount will this year be reduced by
something like two millions. No wonder the
“nation of shopkeeps” sorrow so much for the
Duke .. “Where are you going Ernest?” she
asked him as he rose between the acts, at the
theatre, one evening last week. He: “Ipromised
to meet Simpson when the curtain fell.” She:
“ Can’t you bring me a glass of Simpson, too ?”
Some musty muddler wants to make out that kiss-
ing originated through Micennius doing it, to find
out by tasting her breath whether his wife had
been at the wine. Perhaps it was started in that
way, and perhaps not; but, anyhow, the writer
seems to forget that the Romans kept parlour-
maids, and the idea of Micennius kissing his wife
is ridiculous ...A dude, seeing a girl caressing a
retriever, said : “I wish I were a dog and she
quietly replied : “Can’t you be content to re-
main young?" Two young ladies in Christ-
church (N.Z.) do the town together regularly in a
sociable trike. But in case any one should look at
them from behind, of course they wear the neat-
est hose She was describing how her fashionable
friend looked in her decoUetee dress of splendid
yellow satin, when Agonisa interrupted : “ But
Mrs. Merino has fair hair —that colour would
be horrid near her face.” “Oh!” was the
reply, “it didn’t come anywhere near her
face.” Last Yankee notion is zinc tomb-
stones— A young lady had progressed so well in
her art studies that the time arrived for her to
paint from the nude, and the study was a mascu-
line one. Her parents objected, and in vain her
master tried to impress on them that in art certain
things are permissible. At last her mother
accepted the situation. “ Get her as small a
model as you can,” she sighed to the
artist, “and not too muscular.” When
Adam first kissed Eve, the latter said: “You
just do that again if you dare?” and then looked
up to see if it was raining... “So you say your hus-
band loves you, Mary?” “Oh, he dotes wildlv
upon me.” “Indeed; but he’ll soon get over that.”
“What makes you think so?” “Because men
generally soon get over sowing their wild dotes.”
When Josephine Gallmeyer, the beautiful Aus-
trian actress, was told she had not long to live, she
turned on her pillow and said “I have lived
much." What did she mean? An actress plays
many parts. Was it by entering into the simulated
lives of so many men and women that she had
lived much: that she had run the gamut of pas-
sions and pleasures; that life had quickened in
her. and fame caressed her, and men adored her ?
Ah! Josephine Gallmeyer was a Viennese, a beau-
tiful woman, and an actress, and Vienna is a giddy
and naughty city. Josephine wanted to say, in
language reasonably free from slang, and suit-
able to the occasion, that she had had, dur-
her career, “a monkey and parrot time.”
The “ betrothal ” bangle is a novelty. It is made
of a'circlet of pure gold, engraved with a motto or
couplet of touching sentimentality, and it is so
fashioned that it is not possible to remove it save
by filing, when once it encircles the arm of its
owner... “ Killed his man” was the man’s pass-
port to honour in olden times. “Killed her mouse”
is the woman’s badge of heroism now-adays A
medico states that the immense weight of clothing
worn by women ruins their health. He might also
add that the purchase of this weight clothes
very often ruins then busbancs. ‘ ;


p U«E COUNTRY MILK.
MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fm Food & l ce Co., Lim,ted,
be relied upon as being:
ttd * b «w£? AYS PURB »
m the country diatriote, as
rom city contaminations.
Butter.
South taillS(l irom a t^ fa K tured at thelr own depSt
best butter-makers in the
•Cfo?.i on] y taoMiil? daily, Sundays excepted,
fej, cart; c(tv g H d n bvery is made. Butter by
lty > daily; suburbs, three times
Food
& ice Co., Limited,
11 ® a *BOBR street.
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield flill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
%
G
<?
A-Z
O
cc
Q
o
2
a.
i
o
vr
<6
*/
vH
ft*
BULL-DOG ALE.-IT is not the Clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public estima-
tion. Common bitter crude beers are made very
fine, but no other brand has the same mellow
vinous character, the fullness on the palate,
and the great keeping qualities of the BULL-
DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cautioned
> for the Sftke of an extra
common beers referred to
to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
Newcastle Agents : WOOD
against traders whc
profit represent the
as equal in quality
& CO., Agents.
BROTHERS & CO,
PEAPES and SHAW
b RESPECTFULLY INVITE INSPECTION OF THEIR
SEASON’S GOODS,
U(flQ S > as follows:
an d Children’s Winter Ulsters, Dolmans, Mantles and Jackets,
comprising a very choice and elegant assortment, as follows
S'CtJX
and TAILOR-MADE
oa - to 4 guineas
ULSTERS,
*7 Dofm'* ien s uisters . from ss. 6d. to 30s.
slla Ped Ulsters, New Cloths
ft IALS JACK ETS, in NEW FANCY MATE-
FUR-LINED CASHMERE CLOAKS, from 375. 6d
each
LADIES’ WATERPROOF MACINTOSH CAPES
and ULSTERS, from 12s. 6d. each
Real and Imitation Sealskin Jackets
Braided and Beaded Jersey Jackets
Brocatelle Silk Mantles, beautiful new designs
Stylish Opera Mantles, in all colours, trimmed fur
OQ
and SHAW.
PEAPES and SHAW.
Standard Tweed Clothing.
EMI!-fcXkave now open for the Winter Season the most extensive assortment of
READY-MADE CLOTHING IN THE CITY, and would specially recommend
or the various classes of goods enumerated below.
Sc °TCn
£V»rS§ OVERCOATS, CUT LONG,
OftfA, 45g, 1Ta WAN CLOTH, 255., 305.,
*C$
T'- TO®.
fCOfc’Jas., ULSTERS, LINED WOOL, 305.,
fe«a&.WPCK
r , f KJ«ea SXV*PCK OVERCOATS, 635.
V B sjjig vm, p e lt°n Overcoats, suitable for
ljj» 4 Nn a Oress Suit, 425-, 505., 555.
t)fflU A i TWEED (SAC SUITS are
w4&ILTTv for OUT, FIT, STYLE, and
1 Qot 1)0 Surpassed for < * ood 110116811 Value
, 8 2s, r P® S ARE AS FOLLOWS
Aey W . ’ '*B-. 425., 505., 03s. the SUIT.
, 4 l^ ln c^oatau d Vest, 50s.
ts (West of England Broadcloth),
Ty, lis fi ? r otiBer! t ’ °® food Black Doeskin, 255., 30s.
tolBso l8s fis WeH shrunk and well made,
C °®tfeho||r° Ooats, 21s. each
G fC
Siik v S r > CeiL Pressing gowns, in Felt,
’ Trol h 30g. to^® 1 * Sootoh Knicker, Quilted
PE ftPES
and SHAW.
UEORge street.
MACINTOSH WATERPROOF CLOTHING.
MACINTOSH COATS and CAPES, Ventilated,
thoroughly Waterproof, Sewn Seams, Cut Long.
LEGGINGS, GAITERS, CAMP SHEETS, and
SHEETING.
Travelling Rugs, Imitation Seal, Wool, and Silk
and All-wool, from 15s. 6d. to 525. 6d.
“STANDARD” JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ Knicker Suits—The Norfolk, 10s. 6d.: the
Suffolk, 12s. 6d
Beys’ Jersey Man-o’-War Suits, Knickers
Boys’ ditto ditto Trousers Suits
Boys’ and Youths’ Trouser Suits, 21s. to 30s.
Boys’ and Youths’ Winter Overcoats, all sizes.
CHRISTY’S HATS.
NEWEST WINTER SHAPES, in BLACK SILK
DRAB SHELLS
BLACK DRAB and BROWN STIFF FELT HATS,
NEWEST LONDON SHAPES, Is. (id., Bs. (id.
9s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 11s. 6d., 12®. fid.
French Felt, Plush, Camp, Tennis, and Travelling
Hats and Caps
Solid and Basil Portmanteaus, in every size and
shape
Fitted Dressing Bags, Unfitted Travelling Bags,
all sizes.
PEAPES and SHAW,
GEORGE STREET.
, _■_._ ~_, , _
"XX7"©l£f Sz Son’s
. S*ERT OILS.
all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
,^-a.mVLA.JNTINr.
*" PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
• InTo-w Open.
HOTEL,
ot ne r of KING and CASTEEREAGH STREETS.
*>W R. McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
E fi AK UP-Sa’AIRS. x : i
The ONLY GENUINE TINTAG ;>
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
ee *Vj C ° S s^an d FIRST in tlie estimation of judges of Tobacco.
"° n^ueror ’ Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
**TTES.— CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
lna Dortari of Pipes Ciffars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
u WUEROR” TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’S SHORT HORN BOURBON.—The
drink of the army, navy, the cluhs, ana the
American gentlemen; will soon he the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
s. KOXTHUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
LAIRITZ’ rheumatic cure,
PINE WOOL PRODUCTIONS,
extracted from the hark and comb
of the fir tree, consisting of Pine
Wool Wadding, Oil, Extract for
Baths, Needle Lozenges, Toilet
Soap, &c. Also Chest Protectors,
Kneecaps, and Body Belts. A never-
failing remedy for the cure of rheu-
matics, and ail; nervous disorders.
Ten prize medals.
Sole Wholesale Agents,
8. HOFFNUNG and CO., Sydney.
None gennine without trade mark and signature,
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warrantedfi its t quality
v Charges str i ctly modera te
MARSHALL BROTHERS
SUR(i£CN DtNTI- ’TS | O G MARKETSXJ-J
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern 'apparatus. Painless extraction by
anaesthetics.
Black Swan Hotel,
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnitlcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
P. KIRBY,
From th© late Mr. James Curtis,
■CJn.d.erta,3s:er,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.8.--Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
SWANN’S PILLS
(the great world-famed Liver Remedy)
are the best and safest aperient
in the world.
They clear the eomplexion,
and remove all diseases dependent oh a
deranged state
of the
Secretive and Assimilative Organs.
SWANN’S PILLS
are a certain cure for
Biliousness, Indigestion, Nervousness, Pimples,
Constipation, Depression of Spirits, Sleepless-
ness, Foul Breath, Headache,
and
Liver and Kidney Complaints, &c.
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
SWANN’S
suitable for both sexes;
gentle, yet thorough in their
action.
Sugar-coated,
and
Easy to Take.
BUY NO OTHER.
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
PILLS
Price is., 25., 4s. All chemists and patent medicine
* vendors.
SWANN’S PILLS.
Read the following Certificate of Mr. Fred.
Wright, M.P,S., Professor of Chemistry, and the
well-known Lecturer to the Technical College
“ This is to certify that I have examined ‘ Swann’s
Pills,’ and find that they do not contain any poison-
ous or hurtful drug. They are free from mercury,
and are composed entirely of vegetable ingre-
dients. I consider them a most valuable aperient.
“Fred. Wright,
“Drug Analyst.,
“ Sydney, June 10th, 1884.”
k
iM
R.BUBGIS!
TAILOR - I
170
TRY BTTRGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for m£>meMuring
forwarded to any part of the colony
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
tar THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£atru.xed.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 Qeorge Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ Whiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule,
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARN3 in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
W. XX. Ariell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby,i and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
fend 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
34, 34j> and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kant Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &0.
Imported by
Alexander Borthwwk
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead. Oils, Paints, Colours, Va
nishes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, &e.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
APT£B BEFORE
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WEISKEES.
Boyd* s Beard Blixir did this, and
trill do it on cither bald head or
bare face, forces heavy Move -
tache in from 2 to Ut eeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pktt. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect,
each, 3 for 3*. 6 d.,post paid, stmt under coverjired,,
[Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent 730, &•/ .0., Sydney, N. 3. W
' , jppy ighl^d
Packet* Jf. €d
BEFOntt * FTgn
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OR PITT AND PARK STREET#.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes tp remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, ail of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mail,
ROYAL ABCADB. GSOBGB 8T„ 19$ BTDNBY


Q-olcL
(REGISTERED.)
O—■—
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
will miTehch vubib, h,
jATEST FASHIONS,]
"WATCHES, PEOII 30s.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually
QUINA LAROCHE.
(
ASK YOUR
is £1"?
doctor
BOYD’S
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OYER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists speeially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
v T t, T,nvn /OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
N.8.-BU XU (uvaxv jtjxxjx in the colon i e g.
SALE EXTRAORDINARY, FOR ONE MO^
MEN’S, BOYS’, & YOUTHS’ CLOTH* 1 * 6 ’
NOW ON AT BOTH
J. J. RYAN’S CLOTHING S H ° pS
PRIOR TO ALTERATIONS TO THE HAYMARKET
&T Come Early and Secure Good Fashionable Clothing for
J- J. BYikM, 760 George Street, Hay
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite ErußMar^_
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
J. S. FEY & SON’S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best al© or porter. Lancet.
!
I
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
■wtnP'RECEDENTED success follows the intro-
TT duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
Urnm-anee and science wins ; therefore,
a dpeent Tobacco IlK© xne i*vuuuw
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price. __________
HEYDE, TODMAM & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
T. JONES and CO
65 MACQUARIE-STREET SOUTH,
Air-tigbt
SHOW
W . .. '
GAS®
" "" ’
! 'h*
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
m and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all hinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
|-r Gilbey’S Oid White Jamaica Rum,
he recommended as being of the highest
ouality, and superior to any imported,
auaiuj. KEK & 00,, sole Agents,
376 George-street, Sydney.
S3T- BEST ENGLISH LEVERS.
THE LIVERPOOL & LONDON
Watch Company
have REMOVED to those most
extensive premises at Corner of
Hoyal Arcade,
296 Pitt-st. Entrance.
PATENT ENGLISH LEVER WATCHES
Reduced to £3 10s.
Sent to all parts of the colony Free of Charge.
Each watch warranted for five years, and kept
in repair free of charge.
C. SIMMAT,
PRACTICAL WATCHMAKER.
Note the above Address.
MASON BROTHERS,
'S'-'r
14 and IS Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
EART HE N W A R E,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T, GAYEN’S
Schnapps and Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS’
Edinburgh Pale Ale.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
|ar WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoeive prompt attention.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
UNwi
SNS
tUnWJ
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles. ...
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORNE HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON7TND CHAPMAN
■ AGENTS.
} maG-iars
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA:
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.;
BLAKE’S
H.
steam P
, fißEGO^ggf,
PIT- s*"**
17
ARE SOLE
SYDNEY-
agents eoe
StocKan dto
To®
arP
iV<5"
and have in
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMP 8 p
TANK OR LIGHT B E* VI
MINING PUMPS ,truo^
COMBINED AIR & CIll °
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE
VACUUM PUMPS p QjO
DEEP-WELL-SINK d
SEND FOR PRICES A l^
CATALOGUES FOR^ A
V# V
OILS
£
o
v<
PAPf*
Office: 330 6®®s^
STORES:
or N.B. patted
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of JErated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER® STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/a Medal for /Crated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs
