

IGQ4=_ _^. n CJ'TTJIv£:3iT IWOTT'ELT E S_ d-SS4=
MIT B Ollffil £ SMS,
UHHB4 W BHBBH W ■KS?£SO9Ki& raMfHHSUgaBI jkhha inn im. l■■ll■lll■■lll■■l mw— - - - -
THE LARGEST DRAPERY WAREHOUSES
®te Most
IN
TEE SOTTTIEXEEItT EEMISEEEEE.
THE LATEST FASHIONS FROM PARIS AND LONDON BY EVERY MAIL STEAMER.
Anthony
HORDERN AND SONS,
palace emporium, haymarket, only.
v.i
p*».teEiB®W^w
&BjijP G-REOI an,
■*■’ 4s. Jill.
A SmG-LE CHAIR AT WHOLESALE PRICE.
Speclxxxexxs cf o-u_r TTsefno.l Clb.a.lxs,
ONE HUNDRED DIFFERENT STYLES AND PATTERNS.
I®" THESE CHAIRS ARE EXCELLENT VALUE, AND VERY STRONG AND DURABLE.
Wo are now opening Large Shipments of Goods purchased specially for the wants
of the present season. Ladies will find a most beautiful show of NEW MANTLES,
NEW COSTUMES, and NEW DRESSES. A Magnificent Display of NOVELTIES
in every department, at prices lower than any other house in Sydney.
We are the only UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS in the Australian colonies.
NOTE OUR ONLY ADDRESS:—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET (ONLY.)
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
Buimiim
BENT TOP, WOOD SEAT, 3s.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES
Price 6 ol


H . :
New
EXTENSIVE SHIPMENTS OE SUMMER GOODS.
JOHN HTJNTEII has much pleasure in informing his numerous patrons that, having received (direct from the manuf® 6 ,.
of England and the Continent of Europe) several very large shipments of superior-made Boots and Shoes, embracing
novelties for Ladies’, Gent.’s, and Children’s wear, will sell them at prices never before heard of in New South Wales. The eg
increase of trade, consequent upon the Low Prices charged for first-class goods, has necessitated an additional staff of & sSI
and those who favour him with their custom will be sure of receiving thorough satisfaction*
Orders from the country, accompanied by a P. 0.0. or stamps, receive prompt attention.
The City Boot Palace is crowded from morning until night, proving beyond dispute its increasing popularity.
IBBS„ BRIGHT & CO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
Ana at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS & SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON Hoad Office : HONGKONG
J. C. Cost Jins and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal, and Vertical Engines,
Threshing Machines, Saw Benches, &c., &c.
Crossley Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “ Otto ” Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, M‘Laehlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &e., &e.
Thos. Glover and Company, London-Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian ami Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Penyrorsedd STato Company (Limited)—Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Fels and Company, ot Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.—English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
Red Cross Preserving Company, Victoria—Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c.
De Wendei and Company, Hayange, France—Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Steel Fencing Wire, &c.
Thos. Perry and Son, Biiston—Fire-resisting Safes. Dryhrough and Co,, Edinburgh—Ale.
Bruntou and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port W ine.
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES.
New South Wales.—Scctt and Muilaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jindera Mill Co.
Victoria.—James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. Gibson.
Sooth Australia.—W. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances,
MEINRATH AND CO.,
SIZXIESTM.A.ISEXSS,
96 KING STREET, 'SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
The patrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART. so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition to the same high-class portrait
work for which it has beeffhoted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improved pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous
arc employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
&
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRI^
Beg'S to announce to his town and country friends, that ho has just compl® 4o^
extensive additions to his |
Wholesale and Retail Bottle DeparWp,
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Beat Stands of Wines and
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to fiufope. He can therefore confidently „r
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the follo wing list, hopes to merit a 6
patronage', Which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PORT WINE.
pel
40-year old, Gilbey’s ..
Celebrated Four Diamond .. ••
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old!
No. ***** grape ~ i-
No.**** „ i-.
No. *** ~ .... a.
No.
No. *
Draught Port Wine, per Imperial Q uiir
SHERRY.
■ dry)
BRITISH WINES.
James Ileddle’s Ginger Wine
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY.
Jameson’s *** , •••
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by
Kinahan’s unrivalled L L ...
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky ... 3s b
.Jameson’s •" .■<
Dunville’s ua rt
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial u
Jameson’s „ „ <j
Flasks
• RUl*
SCOTCH WHISKY'*
Walker’s 7-year old, in bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock
Glenlivet ...
Glenlivet Whisky
Flasks
, per imperial Q ual^g
40-year old, Gilbey’s ...
Very Finest Amontillado (Very
Fine Amontillado ...
Celebrated Folit Diamond Sherry
Common sherry •••
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial 0 U
fid*
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva- '
Celebrated Key Brand, very l aI ’7 1 ntud’i«
bottle containing more than a 1
Flasks Key Gin
r, j
n
rct'ff
Wedding and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality,^ 1 a t tb ;
allowed lor. & Cases ol Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and deliv^
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. nn $e * A
P. ft. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS.
of £3,
On receipt
nl-
TOTAL—I 6 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. It. L.’s Assorted Cases are all guaranteed of the best
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay,
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Oilice.
Kindly Note the Address
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Sy tlll "


THE BULLETIN
Vol. I.—No. 43.—New Series
SATURDAY, MARCH 8. 1884.
Prioe— 6d.
Wholesale Plunder.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, MARCH 8, 1884.
The Mobwing Post sounds the claritQ of
alarm concerning the spread of George’s
views. The extraordinary success of George’s
book, “Progress and Poverty,” induced
him to visit England, where he is at present
on a lecturing tour. “We are now threat-
ened,” says the Post, “ with a regular pro-
paganda in favour of the most levelling
ideas.” The “levelling ideas” are the
prospects of bringing “ wealth and comfort
within the reach of the veriest proletarian ”
by means of new methods of dealing with
property. The journal quoted thinks that
“when the possessors of manhood suffrage
learn that, upon their powers to return
members to Parliament resolved to do their
bidding, depends the enactment of the
wholesale plunder of the rich for the benefit
of the needy, then Mr. George’s ideas may be
found to have taken root in fertile ground.”
“The wholesale plunder of the rich ” and
the nationalisation of the land are regarded
as convertible terms. No attention is de-
voted to the fact that it was by a system of
wholesale plunder, operating through cen-
turies, that the small holders of Great Britain
were gradually deprived of their possessions,
until, to-day,Jwe find the ownership of the
ground confined to an insignificant portion
of the population. It is to this insatiate
greed for land among those who arrogate to
themselves the title of “ the higher classes ”
that the bitter cry of outcast London is
mainly traceable, and the chronic discontent
in Ireland almost wholly due. It is when we
remember this that we cease to wonder at
the hard names applied by the great landed
proprietors and their organs to those writers
who, disregarding legal sophistries, go back
to first principles when dealing with land-
tenure; or to those readers who, taking
slowly to heart the lessons taught by Minn,
Spencer, and George, seem bent on the
“ wholesale plunder of the rich for the
benefit of the needy.”
• * *
The propriety of applying the term,
“ wholesale plunder,” to the resumption by
the State of property obtained by fraud is
fairly open to dispute. It is the term em-
ployed by Conservatism. But we know that
Conservatism, as understood in England, is
largely nourished on misrepresentation.
When the party of progress—the Liberals
Radicals, Socialists, or by whatever name
they are known —endeavour to lessen the
amount of hardship, misery, and starvation
they find around them, they are met with
the “cm bono ■?” of the well-to-do. “Star-
vation, filth, and over-crowding follow in
the wake of poverty, and the effort to re-
move them without first removing their
oause is about as sensible as the endeavour
to shift the shadow of a tree while leaving
the tree itself standing. As a rule, men are
poor because they are indolent, and unless
you can take away that indolence, no wild
doctrines of an equal division of wages or
land will mend matters.” This is what Con-
servatism says when Irish peasants strive to
ward off hunger or British workmen ask for
more cubic space in their dwellings. Bnt
there is one thing to which neither the Morn-
ing Post nor those who believe in it pay the
leastheed. And that is that as English society
is constituted, and, a fortiori, as English
land is held—poverty, hunger, and dirt are
the necessary results. At the present
moment there are millions of British chil-
dren in their cradles who, so long as existing
laws continue, will never get a chance of
emerging from the want which surrounds
them—never a chance of escaping from the
heritage of pauperism resulting from their
being born beneath a British sky. But
when the Mills. Spencers, and Georges
point out that the causes of this apnailing
misery are discoverable and remediable
when they put their fingers on those causes
and urge our countrymen to remove them—
once more the misoellaneous literary instru-
ments composing the Conservative band
strike up the lugubrious dirge, ‘‘Wholesale
“CHINESE” GORDON.
plunder of the rich for the benefit of the
needy.”
• • •
And yet it is extremely probable that the
Morning Post is right—that, when manhood
suffrage comes, as come it must, to the
British Islands, “the most levelling ideas ”
will prevail among the electors, and be re-
flected by their Parliamentary representa-
tives. It is also certain—as certain as the ulti-
mate absorption of Canada in to the American
Union—that the subjeot of land tenure; the
relations of labour and capital; the pro-
priety of paying enormous sums, not for the
support of the Chief Magistrate alone, but
also to keep her relatives, domestic and
foreign, in a state of dishonorable idlenessat
the public expense, will be questions which
will engage the early attention of the re-
formed Parliament Wherein, then, lies our
objection to the Post’s dictum ? It is merely
an objection to a name—to the labelling as
“wholesale plunder” the measures which
will surely be adopted for the purpose of
securing a more equal distribution of
wealth, and, consequently, of comfort. Quite
outside the question raised by toe advanced
economists regarding the inexpediency of
private property in land, is the question of
how so few people in proportion to popula-
tion became possessed of the British Islands,
and how those possessions are held together.
Even if it were shewn that Minn and his con-
temporaries were hopelessly wrong, and
that the present land tenure is the result of
the highest political wisdom, the other
question—how the ground was secured and
retained —would still demand an answer.
And it is unlikely that the demand of a Par-
liament, returned by universal suff rage, for
a reply, will be abashed by the babble of
“ wholesale plunder of the rich.” It is even
credible that they would meet a cry of alarm
couched in such terms with the significant
response, “If any such ‘plunder’ has oc-
curred in the past, you and your progeni-
tors were the thieves.”
Crime and it's Cove
Sensational newspaper head-lines, and on
abnormal (even for the Evening N Jews')
to exhaust the adjeotival resources!
of the vulgar tongue, on the part of the
reporter, point to the existence of an epi-
dernio of orime. “Shocking Immorality,’’
“Frightful Depravity,” “A Deeper Depth, »
“ Hideous Incest,” “ Ruffianly ltape,” “Ap-
palling Bestiality,”—such are a sample of
the horrors dished up matutinally and ves-
pernally. That there is an epidemic of
brutal crime is undoubtedly as true as that
red sunsets are the order of the evening.
Naturally enough, the eager question, as
regards either break from the usual, is,
“The cause?” Leaving the matter of the
red sunsets to the meteorologists, we would
say a few words about the prevalence of
brutal crime. It must not be forgotten, in
the first place, that now-a-days a fuller light
than ever is turned upon criminal doings. In-
creased competition in daily journalism will
acoount for the increasing sensationalism in
serving uo the police news. Although
it is impossible to deny an alarming
increaso of material for police news.
If Mr. Fcsbery be oalled as a witness,
and asked whence this inorease of brutal
crime, he will depose that it comes of idle-
ness and fullness of bread—and strong drink
—among the larrikin section of the commu-
nity. And probably his explanation will be
a correct one to a certain extent. It would,
however, bo rather a step towards the ex-
planation than the explanation of the ulti-
mate fact under consideration. If the
clergy were put in the box and examined in
the matter, one school would make answer
that it is the direct, the anticipated result of
secular education; while those of another
school would assert that it is the result of
inadequate ecclesiastical means for grap-
pling with Satan, since, were there only
more parsons, more churches, more endow-
ment, more etcetera, etcetera, that old ser-
pent wouldn’t have any stomach left to
creep on. If Mr. Fosbery’s explanation be
insufficient, that of the holy men of either
school is absurd. Besides, neither Mr. Fos-
bery nor the holy men come into Court
with quite clean hands. Much of the exist-
ing crime is due to the radically wrong
police policy under which crime prevention
does not receive so much consideration as
crime detection ; while no little of it is due
to the fact that the clergy preach the holi-
ness of conventional respectability rather
than the goodness of morality, and dilate on
the virtue of a base content with the per-
sonal environment, though one phase of
that environment may be the ill-drained
lane of a sixty per cent, paying pesti-
lential slum, rather than on the manli-
ness of an indignant discontent with a
“ proputty” system of which slum is a nor-
mal and profitable feature. As for the story
that the crime epidemic now raging arises
from godless schools, or inadequate eccle-
siastical means at the disposal of the holy
men, might it not be urged with more
cogency that the sole hope of checking the
epidemic and rooting out its cause lies in
multiplying the so-called “godless ” schools,


Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
HT PUII E RUM,
Extra Strong,
68. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
G. W. ROBERTS’
Single Dottle Departnent,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
QTtORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
Sd..
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The host Wholesome or all Beverages.
C. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
Ss. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. 3d. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Market Street # Sydney.
enforcing attendance thereat, and firmly
but politely declining to endow the holy
men with the means of further tampering
with them ? Were some quite impartial in-
habitant of another planet to visit New
South Wales, aud, having made himself
acquainted with its history, to ask, what
can the clergy have been doing all these
years, that brutal crime|is so frequent—what
answer oould be found to so pertinent
a question? What have they been doing?
Arohbishops, bishops, vicars-general, deans,
archdeacons, arohpriests, priests, canons,
deacons, curates, catechists, moderators,
evangelists, pastors in galore, to say nothing
of Sunday-sohool teachers, by no means
ungenerously endowed, have been at work
these years and years. Can it be that the
epidemio is in any way the result, either
directly or indirectly, of their work? Had
a similar amount of energy and coin been
expended during the past two generations
upon technical education, would not the re-
sult have been, if less religious, more moral;
if less goody in the holy, more dignified in
the practically righteous, sense ? We think
so. The want of New South Wales to-day
is not more churches, nor more parsons—
of these there are enough, and to spare.
Conflicting theologies and antagonistic sects
induce brutality. No, it is not more clergy
that are wanted, but more light, more
scientific knowledge, more social brightness,
more wholesome recreation, more rever-
ence for Humanity—less gloom, less bigotry,
less commercial greed, less plutocratic self;
ishness, less groping after the unknowable.
The 860,000 inhabitants of New South Wales
support some 860 clerics (irrespective of
Sunday-school catechists, nuns, monks, and
so on) at a cost to their breeches’ pockets of
some half a million sterling a year. Were
this “mixed” Religious Establishment a
united organization for the promotion of
good in this work-a-day world, by plain,
sensible, practical means, hope might surely
not unreasonably be entertained of training
up an enlightened population within a gen-
eration. As it is, when one is daily, hourly
stunned with the hideous noise of the rival
sects, whose “ reverend ” pundits are only
agreed as to one point, to wit, that the
non-religious are atheistic, abominable, not
to be listened to —
“ As they shock on each other and butt each other
with clashing of bells,
And the daws fly out of the towers, and jangle
and wrangle in vain,
And the clash and boom of the bells ring into
the heart and the brain ”
how is it possible to avoid connecting such
self-assertive bigotry, such unmanlike trucu-
lence, such feminine spite, such utterly un-
CHRisT-like (we do not say “ un-Christian”)
virulence, with an atmosphere of brutal
crime?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Lush and Slush.
AVe are going to give you some sentences from an
egg-flip elegy. It appeared in the Melbourne
Licensed Victuallers’ Advocate on the occa-
sion of the departure to the golden shore of a
gentleman over there who in this weary world
was a successful brewer. The writer, after ex-
posing his own grief—which was no doubt great,
as it is no joke to lose the entrte to a good brewery
—goes on to make the general assertion that “the
Viotorian brewers have always been sterling large-
hearted men.” We suppose in less pompous phrase
this means that they never allowed a reporter to
go sober from their doors. It is well to speak of
men as you find them. But when he spoaks of the
deceased “ sternly fighting the trade’s battles
where the fray was sternest,” we think, if he will
pardon us, that his literary style is shaggy and
his sentiments stern slush. For what does he really
mean ? He means that the departed br ewer always
kept an eye on his business. And what was his
business ? Making men drunkards. Which means ?
Filling the gaols, the hospitals, the lunatic asylums*
the untimely graves. AVhat had he to do with all
this? you ask. He had just as much to do with
it as cause has to do with effect. Beer-making
was his business, and the more beer drunk the
more beer made. “But if men like to make
beasts of themselves!” say the publicans. Just
so. If they do, you will give them every assist-
ance. Men will make beasts of themselves, and
you know it. And they will—according to their
lights—then break their wives’ heads or hearts and
ruin their children. And you know that, also.
AVhat mooncalf mash, therefore, is this talk about
“large hearts ?” As a solid fact, we never knew a
man yet who, after becoming a publican, did not
deteriorate mentally and morally. We know there
are good publicans—pious publicans—generous
publicans-but they are men who must have had a
most extraordinary stock of noble qualities to
start with. Of course, when a man has grown rich
by selling beer, he can afford to pay more atten-
tion to the conventional virtues than he did when
he was keeping a bush-shanty and nailing plugs
of tobacco across the bottoms of rum-casks. But
observe him when he is comparatively poor.
Every man who comes to his bar he looks at as a
sheep to bo shorn. It is of no consequence to him
that that man has a family who are waiting for
the money he has earned by a week of hard work
—no matter that he has a sick wife, a dying child
—no matter that he himself is dying rapidly of
drink. He has money, and the publican must
have it. Even a man of naturally generous dis-
position soon drops down to this level of thought
when he stands behind a bar. Irishmen are pro-
verbially good-hearted, but how many good-
hearted Irish publicans do you know ? We don’t
Bay outside of their business, when they may be
lavish enough—it is little virtuo to spend in mirth
what is gained by misery—but in their business ?
Do you know any who will say to a customer
“You have spent as much money as you can
afford to spend : take the rest of your money
home : good day !” ? If you know any such, you
will die early—you are too wise for this world"
And with maudlin pathos the Licensed Victu-
aller’s Advocate hired mourner concludes with
the misquotation
“ O for the touch of a vanished hand
And the tones of a voice that is still.”
The touch of a vanished hand on the bell-pull, we
suppose, and the tones of a voice that is still say-
iDg “ Take another, young man !”
♦
A Ticklish. Question.
The sharp reprimand dealt out by His Honor the
Chief Justice to the jury who brought in a verdict
of “not guilty,” in the case of the man Stone,
charged with stealing a horse, dray, and goods,
was elicited by some rather peculiar circum-
stances. Sir James Martin plainly intimated that
he considered the acquittal of the accused tanta-
mount to a failure of justice. And in this every-
one who reads the report of the case will agree
with His Honor. But it is quite a debatable ques-
tion whether the jury were deserving of blame in
the matter. The accused had expressed a wish to
have thirty witnesses called on his behalf. The
Crown had, being convinced that the de-
sign was merely to obstruct the proceed-
ings, refused to call any of those witnesses,
and, in consequence, the prisoner was deprived of
the benefit which might have accrued to him had
some -at least been heard. The jury, under the
circumstances, hesitated to bring in a verdict of
“guilty.” When returning one of “notguilty,”
their foreman definitely gave the non-appearance
of the witnesses as their reason—although after
being brow-beaten by the counsel for the prose-
cution, the foreman, apparently testily, said they
had “no grounds.” Had the prosecution acted
with a trifle more discretion and care—had it been
shown that the witnesses had been interviewed,
and the irrelevancy of their evidence ascertained,
or even had a few of them been put in the box—
there seems no doubt but that the jury would have
returned a different verdict. Courts are great
strongholds of precedents, and it would certainly
have been a dangerous precedent to establish that
a Crown prosecutor should be permitted to offer,
in lieu of the witnesses desired by an accused per-
son, an explanation that the prosecution had come
to the conclusion that the witnesses could say
nothing germane to the matter. The jury were
placed on the horns of a very awkward dilemma.
On the one horn they had their conviction that the
prisoner was guilty; on the other their knowledge
that they had heard only so much evidence as the
prosecution had thought fit to allow. That they
hesitated is no matter for surprise; and we should
hesitate to say that they decided wrongly to
acquit the prisoner rather than to countenance a
flagrant irregularity. The censure of the Judge,
appears, therefore, hasty and inconsiderate. It is
very doubtful whether it might not with more
propriety have been addressed to those who man-
aged the prosecution.
♦
Histoire d’un Crime
“ While we, loving old England in her nobler
aspects, are indignant and alarmed at her aberra-
tions, it is the loud-voiced Jingo crowd who dis-
cover, rather to their bewilderment, that they
have for comrade in their business of urging on
the Empire to deeper ignominies (falsely called
glories) and more intricate involvements—her
enemy Russia. Russia claps Great Britain on the
back, and cheers her to push on to deeper entangle-
ments in Africa. And, when England is regarded
as sufficiently far in the tangle, Russia annexes
Merv. A few years ago, such a step by Russia
would be treated as a casics belli. Now—alas!—now,
Russia reckons she is safe. England is at daggers-
drawn with Mahomedanism in Africa, and Mahome-
danism in India quivers with indignation. What
chance now of meeting Russia with ‘ our Native
Indian Forces,’ that reed of straw upon which our
statesmen have chosen of late years to rest ?
Russia, as two-faced as the eagles on her ’scutcheon,
can approach Hindostan, if not in the guise of
the Saviour of Islam, at least as the deadly foe
of Islam’s worst enemy.” [Bulletin, 23rd Feb.]
“ El Mahdi is tampering with the Musselmen of
India.” [Herald telegram from London corres-
pondent, 27th February.] Thus the echoes of the
guns fired at Alexandria—echoes that bore such
incense to “ Jingo ” nostrils—were heard under the
Himalayas, and probably disturbed the allegiance
of forty millions of our subjects. We have always
held that the Egyptian expedition was not alone a
big crime, but a bigger blunder. Had England’s
sole object been to forward Muscovite interests
and aims, her success could not have been more
unequivocal. Victoria! how the notorious O. K.
(the Russian lady, you remember, who captivated
Mr. Gladstone) must have “guffawed” when she
heard that Wolseley’s head-quarters were in
Cairo! And all for a squad of Hebrew money-
lenders I Peste!
In view of what happened the other day at Wal-
gett, the authorities of all country Hospitals
should at once be made to dist inctly understand
that unless they allow the local P.M., or police-
offioer in charge, the right of sending in emergent
“ Government ” cases, the subsidy will be with-
drawn. To pocket the subsidy and reject G overn-
ment cases is (not to put too fine a point on it)
“brother belonging to” obtaining money under
false pretences.
Thus the Echo with regard to the Rosevear case:
‘Not even fit for the flogger—not man enough to
bear the proper punishment of the beast! And th e
reason, or a clear indication of the reason, the
filthy book found upon him, the Gospel according
to Bradlaugh and Mrs. Annie Besant.” Now,
can anything be imagined more shamefully in-
decent and unmanly, or less logical, than such a
reference in such a connection to the “ Fruits of
Philosophy”—a work which, with all its faults, is
no more immoral than the Scriptures ? It is only
the other day that we heard of a copy of the Echo
being found, amongst other possessions, upon the
person of a ruffian arrested for a foul crime.
Would it, then, be a right conclusion to come to
that the reason of his criminality, or a clear indica-
tion of the reason, was the stupid paper found
upon him ? It is possibly true that Rosevear had
purchased the book in question on account of tho
bad, but ill-deserved bad character given to it
by mealy-mouthed puritanism, to whoso nasty
prudery the physiological so invariably suggests
the indecent.
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
are—For one year, *s24e.: half-year, 12s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. 6d.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are ss. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to AV. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, it more convenient.
"Chinese” Cordon.
Than “ Chinese ” Gordon, C. 8., and ex-Major-
General of H.B.M. Forces,
“ We do not think a braver gentleman,
More valiant-active, or more valiant-true,
More daring or more bold, is now alive
To grace this latter age with noble deeds.”
The life of this veritable anax and-ron, who is now
a man about 52 years of age, reads like a romance
No more striking figure than his does modern
military history contain, though other leaders
may on larger fields have gained a wider renown.
If indomitable pluck, and iron will, and consum-
mate strategic ability, and a firm belief in his star,
go to make the great General, then is Gordon
one, for he possesses them all in unstinted mea-
sure. From his school-boy days, when a cadet at
Woolwich, no one ever associated with him with-
out recognising in his gallant, uncompromising,
truthful, sympathetic disposition (a disposition in
some of its phases not unlike that of his kinsman,
Adam Lindsay), a being born to exercise over his
fellows that fascination which men call “com-
mand.” He first saw active service in the trenches
before Sebastopol. Probably no other subaltern
of engineers did such valuable service as Gordon
during those weary days, when the strain on
officers of his branch was intensely severe. He
then acquired that skill for watching and notiag
an enemy’s movements, which subsequently, in
China, was to prove invaluable to him. The
Crimean war over, he was engaged for some
months in Bessarabia and Armenia in laying down
frontier lines—work that further helped to de-
velope his naturally keen eye for country. In
1859 he went to China, where he took an active
part in the operations of the allied French and
English forces (to avenge the attack on the Pei-ho)
against the Emperor Heinfung. That war
over (the treaty of Pekin was signed in October,
1800), Gordon remained at Shanghai, where
he was employed in making a military survey of
the district, then in danger of being invaded by
the rebel “princes of peace,” the Taepings. It
was towards the close of 1862, when the danger of
Shanghai being attacked by the rebels was immi-
nent, that General Staveley, at the request of the
Chinese Imperial authorities, selected Gordon to
command the army which the merchants of that
city had raised some little time previously, but
which, under the American adventurers, Ward
and Burgevine, had proved to them
“ Mouths without hands, maintained at vast ex-
pense;
In peace a charge, in war a weak defence.”
This force, barely 4500 strong, Gordon first
“ rarey-fied,” and then led with his ridiDg cane, his
sole weapon for baton, from victory to victory,
thereby justifying the name of “Eyer Victo-
rious Army,” which had been applied to it in
derision. Not only had he to fight the Taepings,
but, that worst of all foes, treachery in his own
camp. In Governor Li and General Chang he had
colleagues almost invariably jealous, and at times
utterly untrustworthy. But he overcame all
troubles by his sheer force of will. He quelled a
mutiny by himself dragging its ringleader from
the ranks of his artillery, and having the scoun-
drel incontinently shot. He cashiered some dozen
otherwise useful officers because they would not
conform to his “ loot ’’-forbidding orders. And
whilst inculcating his troops with such a soldiery
esprit dc corps that they were ready to follow him
to the jaws of hell, he never gave his enemies a
moment's rest. He was for ever upon them, now
here, new there, cutting them off in detail, re-
ducing their advantage in numbers by his splendid
tactics. In October, 1863, he won his first big
fight, defeating Burgevine, who had gone
over to the Taepings after being cashiered
from the Ever Victorious Army. During
the next month he captured the great city of
Soochow. The place once taken, Li, despite his
word pledged to Gordon, ordered five rebel chiefs
to execution, and gave up the city to be looted.
When Gordon heard of this, for the first time since
he had assumed command of the army he laid
aside his cane, armed himself with a revolver, and
“went for” Li. Chang, however, managed to
“ give the office ” to the Governor, who, knowing
his man, “ planted.” Then Gordon swore he would
not serve under a man so forsworn; rejected the
decorations and donations bestowed on him by the
Emperor; and was only pacified by a proclamation
published by Li, in which that able but deceitful
Chinee cleared him of all complicity in the acts he
complained of. Oddly enough, Li and Gordon
subsequently became good friends ; so much so
that, years afterwards, Li urged Gordon to return
to China to help him in reorganising the Imperial
military service. In March, 1864, Chang-fow was
taken; and in July of the same year, the Hebellion
was virtually brought to an end by Gordon’s most
brilliant feat of arms, the capture of Nankin. A
few days previously, Hun-seu-tseun, the rebel
Emperor, had suicided by taking a square feed of
gold-leaf; and a few hours subsequently, the two
rebel generals, Changwang and Kanwang, were
literally made mincemeat of—though not with
Gordon’s sanction. China, saved by him, showered
dignities upon Gordon. And England, what did
she ? Well, since Gordon was not a bar-sinister Gor-
don, descended from a bastard begotten by a royal
lecher on a “noble” harlot, England had nothing
for him—no knighthood for the paladin who had
forced Asia to entertain a higher reverence for
true English grit—no command for the soldier
who had displayed the brilliancy of a Napoleon in
attack, end the astute wariness of a Wellington in
defence. No; “Chines"” Gordon was sent by the
Horse Guards to vegetate for six years in the
engineer command at Gravesend 1 From there he
was—well, de-graded is about the right word, to a
petty vice-consulship on the Danube—the sort of
hillet that is occasionally tossed by a Foreign
Secretary to a convenient fellow who has married
his (or some noble friend’s) cast-off mistress. In
1874, Khedive Ismail offered Gordon the Governor-
ship of Upper Egypt vice Sir Samuel Baker, with a
salary of £lO,OOO a year. Gordon accepted the post,
but, knowing whence the money came, would only
take £2OOO a year. His task was (in the words of
his cousin, Egmont Hake): “ To disband 6000 Bashi-
Bazouks, who were used as frontier guards, but
who winked at slave-hunting; to subdue and
bring to order, and rule the vast province of the
Bahr Gazelle, but now beneath thG swayof the great
slaver Sebehr; to give peace to a country quick
with war; to suppress slavery among a people to
whom the trade in human fiesh was life, and
honour and fortune; to make an army out of,
perhaps, the worst material ever seen; to grow a
flourishing trade and a fair revenue in the wildest
anarchy in the world—and to do this in spite of
countless odds, the deadly climate, the horrible
vermin, the ghastly itch, the nightly and daily
alternation of overpowering heat and bitter cold;
the environment of bestial savagery and ruthless
fanaticism.” But what he had to do he strove
to do Aided by Romulus Gessi, an old Gari-
baldian, he achieved wonders. They smote
the slave - dealers hip and thigh; and then
rebuilt the villages, created agricultural colo-
nies, facilitated communication by bridges or
ferries over rivers, constructed store-houses; and,
1 ° a . thousand other similar ways, played the part
°f civilisers. But in this work Gordon was ham-
pered at every turn by the infernal scoundrels
(Nubar, Tewlik’s present Premier, chief of them)
at Cairo, who intrigued against him. The trang of
the above-mentioned Sebehr (now one of Tewlik’s
Generals) was his worst trouble. Sebehr, himself
the then virtual ruler of Darfur—an ambitious’
able ruffian,enormously wealthy through the slave*
trade—had gone to Cairo, taking with him £lOO,OOO
to bribe the Pashas, in the hope of getting himself
proclaimed independent ruler of Darfur. And he
did bribe the Pashas; and, though the Khedive
didn t recognise his claim, nor allow him to return
to the Soudan, yet Sebehr was made much of at
court, and his word at Cairo went for more than
Gordon s expostulations, Writing from Khartoum
in January, 1879, Gordon remarked:—“Sebehr’s
system was to kidnap boys and train them as
soldiers. When they became twentv-five, thev
were truly formidable; for he taught them to
shoot with a tripod, which they carry with them
You may imagine how these armed slaves, accus-
tomod to brigandage, rule their nominal chiefs
like Guards of Rome and the Janil
zanes of Turkey. . . . What I complain of in
Cairo is the complete callousness with which thev
treat all these great questions, while they worry
mo for money, knowing by my budgets I cannot
make my expenses meet my revenue by £90,000 a
year. The destruction of Sebehr’s gang is the
turning point of tho slave-trade question, and yet
never do I get one word from Cairo to support
me> —, s letter says, ‘ Issue a proclamation that
you will hang the head of any caravan of slaves ’
Now, this caravan that I may catch mav have
been bought legally at Obeid, and how can I over-
ride all the laws and conventions of his Highness
and do this ? By the decree of his Highness, the
punishment is from live months’ to five years’ im-
prisonment. But even this punishment is vitiated
by the despatch Nubar sent me, saying that tho
purchase of slaves in tho Egyptian territory was
legal. The only notice from Cairo on the question
of these slave brigands was an offer from Nubar
to send Sebehr up here—Sebehr having promised
Nubar to pay a revenue of £25,000 a year. Now
how could Sebehr pay this revenue? Only bv
sending down slaves I declined Nubar’s offer
and said I wanted no help from Cairo in that way ’
The way that the Cairo Government support
Sebehr, who is in Cairo, makes a very bad impres-
sion; for everyone here thinks that, I am the only
obstacie to his return. Now, his Highness knows
that Sebehr has egged on bis people to this revolt-
that it was he who devastated the whole country'
and that he alone is responsible for the slave-trade
ot the last ten years; and yet Sebehr has the entree
par tout.... I shall give Gessi £lOOO if he succeeds
in catching Sebehrls son. I hope he will hang him.
for if he is sent to Cairo, be will be made much of
P.S.—His Highness never punishes the men I send
down. They appear at his balls with the greatest
coolness. So well do I know this, that I punish the
offenders as far as I can up here before I send them
to Cairo.” Such was the disgraceful treatment to
which Gordon wsa subjected by the miscreant Ismail
and his pashas. Is it to be wondered at that (his
loyal lieutenant, Gessi, dead, and he himself hav-
ing just received a grossly insolent snub from
Cairo the completion of a negotiation on be-
half of Egypt with John of Abyssinia) he retired
in wrath from a service so ungrateful and insult-
ing ? Next came the momentary acceptance of
the secretariate to Lord Rioon; the mediation in
China ; the abortive attempt to arrange a settle-
ment in Basutoland; and then some months of
quiet retreat in Palestine. He was just about re-
turning to London “to minister to the poor in
their great need,” when England, who, as an aris-
tocratic power, had ever left him in the cool shade
of her regard, suddenly felt that she wanted him
She was in an almighty fix. A “weakness” (for
who Avould venture to call Egypt even an 18th rate
Power ?) she was supposed i o be backing had lost
its grip on its Soudan territory; its garrisons there
were beleaguered; Englishmen were in peril. The
Mahdi “bossed” the position. Would Gordon go
there ? He would. And alone and unarmed he
did go. As we know, he is already winning over
the Arabs by the magic of his personal influence
But, and here is the joke, as official precedent and
diplomatic rot would not allow him to go on such
a trip as an English military officer, he had first to
resign his commissionlll That “Chinese” Gor-
don will do the work he has set himself to do with
all his might goes without saying. -Our portrait is
from a photograph taken when Gordon had just
completed his prodigious work in China. We' are
indebted to a personal friend of the hero for the
opportunity of engraving it.


Political
Points
On the 26th ult., the Chancellor of the
Vxchequer, asked Parliament for a credit of half
a million, on account of the expedition against the
jhe Soudan Arabs.
Trfr O Ton n. oilA f 7A.e f"n.C yax o/ r c/'f7~a n. /~ s>A <*■«»
j clunTTinif k*rou fc/, Ap Tf’yry’ ect . v jo^^
wm i
Vy o /
UnjtrapJa*.
f ff'«
o/f Stounteiaxf
- r*ici ftp ix cr o/ 7A <f Ty/np _
I*7u ft yncr tufso oj fh-G.,
'^LDe-a.at.
fAb_ T1 C El HOKE /A r//S I/AZIOU'S GyAKACTERS - /o rhep<ufi*fof O'CQ/VH/JK
> O To*tor h u use >4
\£ u,/ 0 °J h uh > tuA.d f' u*vCa ref* re> J Sct-y
/T CLn c 2 Clf> oToy/Zfu S
77i ere re cA tAure n.
\ Jj romn. jj ixp> rr-fi rj Took
\ up The ftafer o-rtd
u ju nr *rTt ere TA eir fa -
p* t\ e r kr-a. * a.
A/ ml i
’Mve/fJ ' J:|j
1
ATP
f ufondet 'flkis liot"
) w to i purckttsed by The
f/k*’ V 4 " a A< Thai ,
I 'jKurna, PH [lhon.e tnjm-l
'ua+~s b<
' t.'or». inuj
y' '•«* cl
y/On-e 0f /HZ'/ba-i
/ffbeech.e& of
/f.'/te dp-/ before
/afrfu ffoj- hi 3
A *J lCLrc/ A/-+
'fr/fa ra/e /*?ou n?e -
"7 jb*frs.K - /boAf'Cu /’fr-os,
/r«rSVc
s
Dan’s Oration—lllustrated.
If the “world is mad, my masters,”
How on ms gleams the Dog star ?
They shook hands, and the Rough Scourge said,
“ He’d gone a bit too far.”
If the “world is mad. my masters, ”
How on tts gleams the Dog star ?
Defeated Parliamentary candidates are in
most excellent company. Thackeray and Trol-
lope were both politically “plucked”—in fact,
found themselves at the foot of the poll. Trollope
found that in Beverley, Yorkshire, not twelve men
in the borough had ever heard his name. Such is
fame. We shall next hear that the Czar of Russia
is not intimately acquainted with the “ monniker”
of a M’Elhone or a Buchanan.
By 20 to 13 the Queensland Assembly on
the motion of Premier Griffith, who ought to
have had more sense, has directed the Attorney-
General to prosecute, in the Supreme Court, the
publisher of the Brispane Courier for publish-
ing, in a summary for Europe, an article asserting
that the members of the Elections and Qualifica-
tions Committee were mere executors of the
Premier’s will—thereby, insinuating that they
would be false to their oaths in order to carry it
out.
The jayuil Dan’s opinion of John Han-
sackor Mac, is that the W C. hero is the greatest
truth up-ender under the tun ; and if ho had
only had a respectable education in his youth, he
would have made one of the most sensational and
successful “ war-correspondents ” in the whole
world. He has more imagination in his big toe
than Archie Eorbes has in his whole carcase, and
he possess the wonderful faculty of being occas-
sionally able to believe even what he—John Han-
sacker—says himself.
The Australasian has of late been very
sultry on our infallible Sir John. It stigmatises
his selection as leader of the Opposition as a huge
“mistake,” and, after asserting that his subse-
quent tactics were just to be expected in a politi-
cian of his calibre, goes op to speak of him as “so
discredited a legislator,” &c. We fancy wo hear
selection, but by no means select, Jack sputtering—
Now, by my beard, bold Australasian,
You’ll feel the weight of my damnation;
I’ll let your Cabbage organ see
The power that dwells in my big D.!
The leading idea of Bismarck’s Bill for in-
suring labourers against consequence of accident
and death is that all the labour givers of the em-
pire shall be compelled to organize themselves
into insurance companies, with corporate rights,
and to pay the whole of the premiums on the lives
and limbs of their workmen in proportion to the
wages earned by the latter, and to the danger
tariff. Should any of the companies prove unequal
to their liabilities they may be aided, and even
taken over, by the State. All the companies will
be under the supervision of an Imperial Assurance
Board. Payment of compensation to be made by
the Post-office.
Sir Samuel Baker, re the Soudan “ The
development of the Soudan should be rigidly con-
lined to those countries which are situated east of
the main river, and the wealth of that region will
be exhibited upon the banks of the Blue Nile,
Senaar, and throughout the ancient Meroe. . . .
The entire country, from Kassala westward to the
White Nile, would become one vast cotton-field if
the population could depend upon a just adminis-
tration, and railway communication were estab-
lished with Suakin. ... I regard the Soudan
as a miilstone upon the neck of Egypt, in the ab-
sence of a railway, but it would become a mine of
agricultural woaltn should a line be opeued from
Suakin to a point above the last cataracts between
Berber and Khartoum.” This is all very well, but
it is based on the premises that Egypt has rights
in the Soudan, a premiss irreconcileable with fact.
Egypt has more than she can do to manage her
own affairs.”
It was no accident, as the official papers
pretended at the time and since, which befel the
Czar on the i7th December. What really took
place was as follows : The C/.ar, in returning to
the Palace of Gatschina from a hunting expedition,
,P y £ lB ,L U t , e *, n
• b , y * the ( larkneB8 j of
muflr D n!o?nit was B Hil ljgr&t enough to dis-
Who stood nn Bt°h“® 8 t °h“® P®! 80 , 118 disguised as peasants
Sh ™ M along which the Imperial
Who wore 8 P £ {n *4.™+° * "Tu ad -l utant8 ’
tn < A ed u to *l® P easa nts
lert w nrfw +>®? y promptly obeyed, not neg-
sooner hiid Yhn veren * ially - Bp t no
sooner had the Czai s sleigh passed by than three
shots were heard. The startled horses bolted at
i 111! opeed I th 6 woiindAfi nn thfi
shoulder by a gunshot, was thrown from the
sleigh. The reputed peasants, though hotly pur-
sued by several officers of the Imperial suite, made
good their escape. One of these officers lias never
since been heard of. He was either made away
with by the Nihilists, or, as is generally believed
was himself a Nihilist, and in the plot. Of course’
every effort has been made in Russia, and even
elsewhere, to hush the matter up, and to attribute
th's latest attempt of the Nihilists on the Oar’s
life to an accident. “
The olosinrr soono? in u'r.o*. a
election lastu th East Sydney
alter «fthi QU u • l i B i ia thID K
for the i m 8t Sydnoy I s
coil tral°c■ nrnm ft+na to ., ad J° urn to his
and such C is I thi t i-ooi 0 ™m 8 ’ al ' va X? the nearest pub.;
of prevailing that hundreds
ot the unsuooesslul mans supporters blend with
the victorious crowd, and unlimited “lush” fol-
lows. Last Friday, all differences were dimmed
in this way at Punch’s Hotel, nearly 4000 people
gathering in that quarter to drink down the re
marks of M’Elhone and anything else that was
offering. Mr. Burdekin returned thanks' “ from
the bottom of his heart,” and hoarse beery
cries went up for “ M’Eihone, M’Elhone,
M’Elhone!” And that individual came on the
scene in a rather doubtful condition—presumedly
from political excitement. His coat was lopsided,
his collar was gone, the front of his “ bosom ” was
as wet as his hair, and his eyes hung down as low
as the jaws of the 30-year-old larrikin at his side,
who appeared to be acting the aide-de-camp. This
precious gem from the Rocks, quite under the
influence of liquor, clapped M’Elhone’s “billy”
on his own head, and bashed it down to his sun-
tanned ears. “ Go it (hic\ Mac; we’ve licked ’em
again.” M’Elhone tried to speak; but was over-
come with—grief. He was so much affected, in
fact, that he spoonily (good word !) put his arm
round A. G. Tailor’s neck, and dragged him down
to kiss him. The “ Giraffe,” who whs, of course,
browsing for popularity, at once took McElhone’s
place, and harangued the crowd on the “con-st’-
too-tional victory won that day.” About twenty
people had a narrow escape of beiug cut down by
the tram; and here comes the painful part of the
affair. On the blast of this trumpery victory
being beai'4i a host of political grubs, who “ went
under ’ two years ago, came out of their slimy
holes, and posed as reviving heroe3. The balcony
was, therefore, ornamented with the presence of
the Hon. John Davies, Esq., C.M.G., ex-M.P„ His
Friend Carter, Mr. M’Coy, &o. As trams rushed
Past, the crowd were continually asking John for
a tram-ticket. It is almost unnecessarv to remark
that Mr. Davies said never a word. When it was
all over, hundreds of men were full, and dozens of
casks were empty,
• • *
. . _.
a dinner in Adelaide, the chairman, in
P’oposing “ The Press,” remarked that the S.A.
“ published a great deal of rot.” Soon
afterwards, the representative of that paper re-
plied - He said: “Perhaps we do print some rot;
but ’ gentlemen, when you read Mr. Blank’s speech
reported in the Register to-morrow, you will bo
satisfied we often leave out a great deal of r0t.”....
. e Bankruptcy Bill referred to a select com-
m*ttee, on the motion of Sir A. Stephen. Dallev
shouldn’t have consented to this. The “Lords'”
criticism should have been dene in Committee of
the Whole.... The Committee of Elections and
Qualifications in the Assembly have reported that
the passing of the Constitution Act Amendment
Bill renders it unnecessary for them to further
consider the validity of Cohen's seat. The Giraffe
isn’t satisfied, however, his contention being that
Cohen holds a portfolio never created by law or
resolution The Matrimonial Causes Act Amend
ment Bill proposes to square the trouble that a
present is apt to arise through an insufficient jury
list ...Service promises Melbourne and suburbs to
introduce a bill to establish a Metropolitan Board
of Works—next session South Australia ex-
pects to have a cash deficit of £150,000 at the close
of June. Revenue by taxation consequently im-
minent.
At the Agricultural Society’s grounds, on
Saturday last, the match for the Gardiner Cup.
between Gardiner and Co. and Elliott Brothers,
finished in a win for the former .house. Gardiner
and Co. scored 145 in an innings—Woods 33, and
Hoskins 45, not out—and disposed of the medicine
men for 17 and 21.
“W.H.H.Y.”: Who, if we mistake, not is
author or a mo > strous silly poem entitled “ Cales-
tia,” contributed to the Echo, la«t week, an in
memoriam sonnet to Badham, ih which be speaks
(or by typographical blunder is made to speak) of
the late Professor of Classics as “one of ourselves.”
Even if “ W.H.H.Y.” ever rowed in the same boat
with Badham, it was with a very different skull.
The public, and the medical profession of
Australia are unanimously of opinion that
Wolfe’s Schnapps is r,he purest and best stimu-
lant, tonic, and diuretic at present before the
world,


PERSONAL ITEMS.
Baron Tennyson is described as quite
peerless in his fury if interrupted while hashing’
up a line in a “pome.’’ He is said on such in-
vasions to “rage like mad, and tear what little
hair he has left.” His wife bears him out in all
his vagaries, lirmly believing that he actually
takes the cake from Douglas Sladen.
Thorndike Rice, editor and proprietor of
the North American Review, was born at
Boston (U.S.), graduated at Oxford, and lives in
New York. He is a bachelor of immense fortune.
His hobby is to seoure contributions from celebri-
ties. He has angled unsuccessfully to get a copy
from Bismarck. He might try it on with Parkes
or Dan O’Connor.
Edward B. Malet, K.C.B , whose recent
work in Evypt has made him a rather prominent
figure in diplomacy, was with the economic Lyons
at Washington, Constantinople and Paris. During
the Cummune he was in charge of the British
embassy in Paris. Sir Edward likes lawn-tennis,
pleasant company, and good living, has a shrewd
eye for a pretty ankles, and keeps a cordon bleu.
Alderman Lewis Scott is on the warpath
once again. This time he is making a raid upon
the dead, who, he asserts are kept far too long to
prove agreeable companions when the weather’s
sultry. “ For example’” quoth the art critic,
“when Father Lynch was buried the whole build-
ing was filled with stench.” Forty-eight hours,
Lewis considers to be the longest time a “ demni-
tion dead body ” can reasonably expect to be left
above ground, and we trust that when Alderman
Scott steps out himself, his friends will respect his
wishes.
Baron de Lesseps has been elected a mem-
ber of the French Academy. The French Academy
is one of the live societies which incorporated
together constitute the Institute of France, the
lineal descendant of the Academy with forty
members founded by Richelieu in 1635. The other
four societies are the Academy of Inscriptions
and Belles-Lettres, the Academy of Sciences, the
Academy of Fine Arts, and the Academy of
Morals and Politics. Each academy has forty
ordinary members, with the exception of the
Academy of Sciences, which has sixty-five.
George Mac Donald, the author of “ David
Elginbrod ” and “ Alec Forbes,” lives nine months
of the year at Bordighera, where his Wednesday
“afternoons” ind Sunday meetings are great
attractions to the local British Colony. George is
a bit of an aesthete. He wears a black velvet coat
relieved by a crimson tie, and his special chair is a
shade of the darkest green. His wife and
daughters, in their dresses, also go in for startling
combinations of tints. The whole family are in
the habit of performing moral plays, adapted and
arranged by Mrs MacDonald, at Mentone and San
Remo.
Colonel Bolton, who has just been knighted,
was originally a private in the Artillery. He re-
ceived his commission in 1857, and, after three
years’ active service on the Gold Coast, was pro-
moted to a captaincy in the 12tb Foot, retired in
July, 1881, with the rank of colonel- He is the in-
ventor of the system of telegraphic and visual
signalling, which was adopted in 1863, and which
now forms part of the Army organisation. Sir
Francis Bolton, who is also a civil engineer, is
Water Examiner under the Metropolis Water Act
of 1871, and the founder of the Society of Tele-
graph Engineers and Electricians.
East Maitland proposes to banquet its
whose name always makes us think of
Poraon’s—
“ Jt went to Frankfort end got drunk
With that most learned Professor Brunk;
7 went to Worts and got more drunken
With that more learned Professor Brunoken.”
As for us, we’ll send along our special banquet re.
porter,
With orders tight to get still drunker
In toasting high East Maitland’s Brunker.
Wa-han-in, a chief of great weight and
influence among the Maories of the North Island
of N.Z., has lately got into a little domestic diffi-
culty. Although already sufficiently married, the
fat chieftain recently took to himself another
bride—a sweet young thing, with brown cheeks,
properly grid-ironed in circles—and when he took
her home, the “ boss” wife of [the house lifted the
old man by the dexter ear with one hand, and with
the other she flattened his bump of progenitive-
ness with a frying-pan. The young wife, however,
hadj provided herself with a peace-offering in the
shape of a keg of rum, and while the old man lay
stretched out in a comatose condition, the wives,
now and old, rubbed noses and made merry over
their liquor.
Woolner, R.A., is at work on a statue to
the memory of Sir Arthur Kennedy, for Hong-
kong. At Cultra, County Down, where Sir Arthur
hailed from, an in memoriam stained glass window
is to be placed in the parish church. A London
paper says: “As Sir Arthur Kennedy died and
was buried at sea, the subject of the window is
particularly appropriate —it represents Christ
walking on the water, with the text-motto, ‘ It is
I, he not afraid.’” Where the appropriateness
comes in, we don’t quite see, inasmuch as while
Peter was helped out of the water by Christ walk-
ing on the water, Sir Arthur’s remains were per-
mitted to fathom the briny without a touch of
miracle. Bat with the orthodox ’tis all one; ’tis
alike as one’s fingers are to one’s fingers—there is
something about the sea in both 1
The notorious Mr. C. E. Jones, gave what
he was pleased to term a “dramatic recital,” in
in Melbourne, last week. The recital was about
“ Lincoln and Garfield,” and Jones—in spite of his
name—let off some very original ideas. After
satisfying himself that there were no Apollos in
the front seats, he recited the fact that “he had
never known any good work to be done by a
pretty man, except as a ‘ walker ’ in a draper’s
shop. He never knew such men to do anything
towards the progress of the human race.” So
much for Jones’s judgment. Why, it is “ pretty ”
men—assisted by the softer sex—who do most to-
wards the “progress of the human race.” They
have so many opportunities thrown in their way.
By the bye, perhaps you’ve already surmised that
Jones isn’t a “ pretty ” man. You’re right.
One Zeroridacchi, an Alexandrian Greek,
has just been C.M.G.s of his having
on Christmas Day sent fifty turkeys for the con-
valescents in the local British hospital. We pre-
sume that Wigram Allen got the knighthood of
the Order in recognition of his having supplied
the N.S.W. Speaker’s chair for seven years with a
goose. Apropos of this bogus colonial Order, we
came across the following yarn in Duval’s “A
Show through Southern Africa”:—“l met an
officer, who, having been deprived of his Govern-
ment billet at the close of the Zulu war, was turn-
ing his attention to livery stable keeping as a
moans of livelihood, and who, on receiving a
C.M.G. as a salve for the loss of his appointment,
made the remark that it would be a very suitable
addendum to the signboard over his stables!”
Joseph Foster, in his work on the “Royal
Lineage of our Noble and Gentle Families,” makes
out that Gladstode is descended from both hus-
bands of Joane, Queen of Scots—wife of James I.
of Scotland, and afterwards of Sir James Stewart,
“ the Black Knight of Lorn”—who was descended
from “the Fair Maid of Kent,” a granddaughter
of Edward I.; and through her Mr. Gladstone is
eighteenth in descent from that king: that Sir
Stafford Northcote and Mr. Tennyson are each
fifteenth in descent from John of Gaunt, the
fourth son: and that Lord Wolseley is sixteenth
in descent from Lionel, Duke of Clarence, the
third son, of Edward 111. Gladstone, Northcote,
Tennyson, and Wolseley are, in their varying
degrees of greatness, great by t’heir own personal
conduct and character. There all their honour
lies.
Three of the Nubar Cabinet were col-
leagues and assogiates of Arabi—viz., Mustapha
Fehmy, the authffi of the protest against the Joint
Note; and Mahmoud el Felaki, and Abderrahman
Ruchdi, both of whom were present at the Ramleh
Council in which Tewflk ordered armed resistance
to the English, Such being the case, one would
naturally think that common justice demanded
that permission should be accorded to Arabi to
return to Egypt. Arabi’s own views of the position
are that Egypt has nothing to hope from the
Turks, who have destroyed her in the past: that
England, having taken all the responsibility on her
shoulders for Egypt’s future, Egyptians must
needs look to her; and that the Soudan should be
given up to the Mahdi. For himself, Arabi is con-
tent to wait patiently until he can be of use to
Egypt.
How those crabbed and cruel phrenolo-
gists knock the glory out of our heroes. A Tas-
manian bumpist has got at Blue-Ribbon Booth’s
“ nut,” and this is how he cracks it“ His brain,
like his body, is a little irregular in form, full of
weak points and strong ones. It is not like that of
a man who would like to live a quiet and little life,
is rather that of the moving, active man, of the
agitator, and not the thinker and teacher. Such
men want to drive things along very rapidly, are
men of extremes who will pant and fume like
steam-tugs in their efforts to move slower men.
He is carried on by the movement which he leads,
and his position at its head may be regarded as an
accident; probably no one is more surprised than
he to find himself there.” Booth ought certainly
to manipulate that “Professor’s” bumps with a
crowbar after that.
Archie Forbes’ modesty was never better
exemplified than in liis comments on the Times’
war correspondence. In the Franco-German war,
Archie tells us, “ The old easy order of things was
made to pass away, when the correspondent could
write at leisure for a stated mail; the era was in-
augurated of all but superhuman personal activity
on the part of the correspondent, of elaborate or-
ganisation, of telegraphic expenditure, regardless
of expense. With the commencement of the new
departure, the Times* prestige waned, nor has it
ever been recovered in this department of journal-
ism. The great paper studded the theatre of war
with correspondents, who could write, indeed, but
had no stomach for hundred mile rides, for nights
in the foreposts among snow and frost, for the
strategical planning of communication, by which,
far more than by brilliant writing, the victories of
recent war correspondence have been achieved.
The war ended, and a shrewd blow had been struck
at the supremacy of the Times in a department
wherein previously it had met with no competition
worthy of the name .... confessedly the
honours of the campaign had been won by one of
the cheap dailies.” The italics refer to Archie and
Archie’s deeds—his allusions to “all but super-
human activity,” exceptional “stomach,” and
“strategical planning,” are just what we should
expect of him, for true genius is generally retiring.
Therms a deal of sense, too, in his remark about
“brilliant writing.” If that went for anything,
Archie wouldn’t be the “Great War Correspon-
dent” that he is.
The present Charles Dickens has drama-
tised his father’s “ Old Curiosity dhop ” for Lotta,
and has, seemißgiy, made a sad mess of it; both the
production and the actress being liberally treated
to “ goose ” on the first night. Young Charles is a
short, podgy man, with pince-nez, glasses, and
a pleasant voice. During the years he was not on
speaking terms with his father, he was a commis-
sion agent, a wine-merchant, a printer, a stock-
broker, and lots of other things by turns. And he
was everything badly. But what he was worst of
all was a wine-merchant. Charles was very fond
of boating, and a member of the London Rowing
Club. Well, one aflernoon as he left the shed he
said to Virtue, the publisher, “ This is my last pull
from this spot.” “ How's that ?” enquired Virtue.
“ I’ve taken the contract to supply the club with
wine,” was the reply.
Mr. Gr. E. Ardill, of the Blue Ribbon
Gospel Army, is evidently in earnest. He wants a
few hundred pounds, and left-off clothiDg, and
other things; but he has most certainly sold his
all—or, rather, his plant—and is working away at a
£ r 6kt rate. He meets male and female prisoners
at the gate as they come out, and takes the women
to a Home and procures situations for the men.
I here is some sense in this; and there is especially
sense in ‘ the open all night refuge” for women
which he and Mrs. Browne have established. The
Gospel Ribbon Army consists of only a lew per-
sons, and their policy seems to be to preach beef,
as well as the Gospel into the sinner. The Salva-
tion Harmy, on the other hand, only preach beef
into themselves, but the unsaved get any amount
of Gospel. Therefore, we nail our colours to the
mast of Ardill, and modestly bold out our little
plate.
The worthy magistrates of Yea appear to
be a somewhat athletic family. At the Yea Court
of Petty Sessions, the other day, Mr. Webster,
J.P., and Mr. Purcell, J.P., attended for the pur-
pose of administering the law. Unhappily, though,
they were notin accord as to which of them should
administer most law, Mr. Webster proudly assert-
ing his claim to be chairman, and Mr. Purcell also
standing on his rights to that position. So, as
there is only one “ chair ’’—magisterially speaking
—in a Petty Sessions Court, Messrs. Webster and
Purcell did what true Britons should do, under
such circumstances, and had a “tussle for it.”
Whether it was what a child’s “ History of Eng-
land” would describe as a “ bloody conflict,” we
are unable to say, but, anyway, it terminated in
a draw. The result was a temporary deadlock in
iustice, and a gentleman, who stood charged with
lorse-stealing at these very Petty Sessions, had to
wait three hours before there was sufficient Bench
to “commit ” him.
Thomas Milner Gibson, whose death has
just been announced, was born at Trinidad in 1807,
and educated at Charter House and Cambridge.
He commenced public life in 1837 as the Conserva-
tive member for Ipswich, but within two years,
becoming a convert to philosophical Radicalism
and Free-trade, he lost that seat.. In 1841 he was
returned for Manchester, and from that date to
1857 was one of the most eloquent exponents of
the principles of the “Manchester School.” In
1857 he and Bright were ousted from Manchester
on account of their opposition to Palmerston re
the Chinese war; but, in the following year, Gib-
son (who had obtained a seat for Ashton-under-
Lyne) had a glorious revenge, when he upset the
Palmerston Administration by carrying his amend-
ment (by 334 to 315) to the celebrated Conspiracy
to Murder Bill. When Palmerston returned to
power in 1859, Gibson accepted from him the
Presidency of the Board of Trade, which he held
till 1868. Gibson is best known for his efforts in
repealing the newspaper stamp, the advertisement
duty, and the tax on paper.
“Dicky” Doyle, who died in December,
was one of the sons of “ H. 8.” (John Doyle), the
political caricaturist. Dicky was one of the
founder-illustrators of London Punch, the still
current design on the cover of which he invented
In 1850 he severed his connection with Punch, on
account of the frequency with which our contem-
porary poked fun at his co-religionists: but it is
understood that he accepted a pension from that
journal, with the condition attached tnat he should
contribute to no other periodical of the kind. His
chief works (exclusive of his Punch sketches)
were his illustrations to “The Newcomes,” the
“Jar of Honey from Mount Hybla,” and the
“ King of the Golden River;” and his water-colour
pictures of fairy lore. In an in memoriam sonnet,
Swinburne says of this genial, popular, unaffected
artist:—
“ A light of blameless laughter, fancy-bred,
Soft-souled and glad and kind as love or sleep,
Fades, and sweet mirth’s own eyes are fain to
weep
Because her blithe and gentlest bird is dead.”
The Sisters Morin are, perhaps, next to
Worth, the most celebrated of dressmakers. They
made the Fedora dresses of Bernhardt, whose
wonderful magnificence excited all female minds.
The sisters are Parisians, one is married to a M.
Blosser, and the whole business of their immense
establishment is kept in their own family. One
sister has an unequalled talent for fitting corsages;
that is made her speciality, and the result is that
her Parisian patrons are turned out with figures
as perfect, and round, and smooth as blancmange
from a mould. There are no angularities in the
belles who confide their charms to Mdlle. Morin—
Venus would cry with disappointment at their
symmetry. The other sister stays in the reception
room, talks to dozen ®f clients and employes at a
time, directing, deciding, advising, but always
serene and sympathetic. Customers like to meet
with sympathy. The Morins were for 10 years in
Vienna, and the Austrian ladies are acknowledged
to be the most tastefully dressed in the world.
There are half-a-dozen trying-on rooms; so that
no lady has to wait. Assistants put on her dress,
and when she is fairly in it and laced up, the great
chief is called in for a few minutes, inspects the
creation and gives any necessary instructions.
Then she passes on to the next, and so on. All the
employes are selected for some special talent; one
has a genius lor corsages, another concentrates
her soul on tournures, a third thinks only of
sleeves or trains. In the corsage department are
hundreds of pigeon-holes, and the exact fit and
measurement of every customer is kept. Half-a-
dozen queens and empresses of Europe have their
bodice pecularities recorded in Mdmo. Blosser's
pigeon-holes, and from Mrs Bonanza Mackay
rich 6 ’ tbe flrm avc recelvecl enough to make them
Prince Frederick Charles Nicholas, one of
the crack generals of the Franco-Prussian war,
and a nephew of the Emperor, seems to have been
a believer in the old saw that “all’s fair in love
ana war. So having nothing in the line of a
stony fort to lay siege to, he tried his skill on a
sorter citadel, m the shape of a handsome dame
who is a prominent beauty in the Court of Empress
Augusta. The Prince appears to have been as
daring and triumphant in love as in war, and was
haying a bully old time of it, when his wife, the
Princess Maria Ann, daughter of Duke Leopold
Frederick, sprung the whole pretty little game,
flung the proofs of his naughty ways in the
cv^ 01 i?? us p s, mce 8 4a< ?®’ and demanded that he
should go down on his royal crown moles and
swear never to speak to this courtly weakness
noolf' lhe p J ia ce couldnt see this, and it has
been arranged that a suit for divorce will shortly
issue. One thing seems pretty clear-if the seventh
commandment isu t soon eliminated from the
moral law, blue blood” will have as good a
w an ? e being yanked into glory as Frank
Warden has of keeping out of-hem 1-martyrdom
“ 68 blue "blood, “ with that law the
Just yank us into heav’n on an eleventh •
We, all, our genealogical tree love,
But woiship more the rosy game of free-love.”
By far the most popular man iu New
Zealand at the present time is Mr. John Dunne
Mayor of Balclutha. The Balcluthians have elected
John perpetual Mayor of the borough, and no
£ r f man has a °y chance against him. He has
been for many years proprietor and host of the
Crown Hotel, the best hostelry in—Balclutha- but
this is not the reason why he is at present the most
congratulated man in the colony. No, the reason
i? Si 1 , 14 ® otherwise. When t; e Salvation Harm v
hobbled into Balclutha, the Mayor said they w“re
quite welcome to their share of road-metal und
hoped their visit would save the corporation the
expense of hiring a steam-roller. He would pre-
fer. however, if they would confine their atten-
tion to the back streets, and co-operate with the
day labourer m keeping down the grass that grew
?h2 u «i 1 i n n?- t yi * those sequestered
w e +u® a4vatlol ? l , Bts were n °t satisfied with this
Nothing would satisfy them, they said, but the
of the Mayor in person, the chief
S ! ;3"! er a , n< - 1 Pohlican of the place, w itfa this iaud-
-1 , ln Vle "'’ a strong detachment of Salva-
tion lassies marched to the Crown Hotel, knelt on
f?™ r r dah '? nd . ?u egan t 0 Pray for him. Now“
1418 a strange fact that nobody likes to be frayed
for mdiviaually, and the Mayor did not like it
cither. But he did not get into a bad temper, read
the Riot Act, or make sultry remarks in a foreign
language. John simply invited himself to adr nk
at his own bar, in full view of the pleading sister-
hood, then he went out to the coach-house for his
Are-engine and hose, got the apparatus in working
order, came round to the front with the nozzie in
position, and diverted a full head of the Clutha
SfJSf"' fl , d ® r , h >g' h Pressure straight home among
the Hallelujah bonnets, and, presto 1 in two seconds
that prayer-meeting was mercifully extinguished
And this is why John Dunne is at present the most
SfoK N6W ZealaQd ' He has "° 4 “®®a
Ex-Speaker Brand has accepted a vis-
withstanding the fact that he is heir
apparent to the histone barony of Dacre. Should
k® outlive the present Lord Dacre (a man of 76
years of age) that ancient title, a creation of the
th«°^ Edward i?’ will merge in that of Hampden
the one somewhat ostentatiously selected by Sir
Henry Brand. Speaker Brand will be chiefly re-
membered in Parliamentary history as the initiator
of a drastic cloture more stringent than exists in
any other legislative assembly in the world. On
the 2nd February, 1881, he peremptorily set aside
the fixed order of procedure in the Commons, a
step which, supplemented by the House’s endorse-
ment of the Gladstone resolution for dealing with
urgent business, effected a complete revolution in
the spirit and system of the House of Commons—
a change which, somehow, we think, would not
have commended itself to the Hampden of the
Commonwealth days.
A lot of short people with long memories
will doubtless remember Dalziel. There was only
one Dalziel, and nobody, that we are aware of, was
ever his prophet. It was he, it will be remem-
bered, who started the Echo —subsequently
bought by the Herald proprietary: and who
more subsequently immortalised himself by—this
sounds well—“ contracting a matrimonial affiance”
with an American actress of a somewhat feeble
calibre. More subsequently still, then, Mr.
Dalziel was euphemistically called “Mr. Dickie
Lingard,” and eventually—we are tired of “subse-
quently”—he emigrated to Chicago, and there
established a newspaper. And, it is with Mr.
Dalziel’s newspaper, and not with Mr. Dalziel
himself, that we have so much to do. We may,
however, perchance, mention one thing; the
business was supposed to set the town on a war at
the time. Prior to the advent of “the beautiful
sisters”—and they were beautiful the great
Dalziel was “ mashed ” on Kmilie Melville.
But it doesn't seem according to rumour
that Emilio was mashed on him ; f< r
the legend goes, that Emiiie meeting him ono
day, and Dalziel beiog “a little too previous,”
landed the great man a “domino upon the re-
spirator.” Humour, however, frequently lies. So
let us give Mr. D. the benefit ot rumour. It's
safer to libel him, anyhow, than to libel Emiiie.
She’s nearer. Sir James Martin has taught us dis-
cretion, But he can’t teach us to be duff. Not
his fault. [We’ll get 17,000,000 years for this. Just
our luck I—Ed. B.] We must owu that there is,
despite some few discrepancies which might be
pounced upon by the hypercritical, a deal
of information in the Chicago Newsletter.
It tells us that a man named Knowles murdered
Bates, the actor (he—Knowles, we mean—was dis-
covered to be a drunken humbug, and sent back
to the Salvation Army), and adds: “They made
money there and prospered, until one morning
Mr. Bates was found dead in the street, on the
outskirts of town, near an embankment.” We
knew the Bateses well. At that time they were
living at Menzies’. We were living at Menzies’,
too, only in a different part of the building! We
were always on the best of terms with Mr. B.; the
only hitch in our intercourse, so far as we can
remember, arose from some complaint he made to
the proprietary respecting the noise a certain
person (whose name shall be inviolate) made in
cleaning the knives. [No beastly pride about us I
—Ed. B.]
Up to the first Sunday in this year’s
January the life of Thomas Campbell of Paisley
(Scotland) was uneventful Tommy is a lad of 12,
who has the Shorter Catechism by heart, and was
previously unsuspected of whistling on the Sab-
bath. But to boys as to men, however common-
place their surroundings may be, there always
comes some supreme crisis—some unique experi-
ence, either to confirm them in their bad habits, or
by altering their moral tone, start them on the
road to prosperity and happiness—some startling
A NORTH QUEENSLAND STORY,
IN TWO EXCLAMATIONS.


T3ae ZSellaTble I
sc
i'i.
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONE
FOR GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERT STYLE OF BUGGY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
10 JKtm
PATEN
STEAM & HYDRAULIC GAUGES,
Engine and Boiler Fittings.
SCHAFFER & BUDENBERG,
of Magdeburg and Manchester,
HAVE appointed the undersigned as their SOLE AGENTS for the
Australian Colonies. Orders for Steam, Vacuum, and Hydraulic
Gauges, Thalpotaaimeters, and all classes of Engine and Boiler Fittings,
are solicited.
SCHAFFER and BUDENBERG carried off the
CHIEF AWARDS and MEDALS at the SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and
ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
TOZER & CO., Silt Agents, 007 George Street,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The SMITH Organs
Have no rival
on the Planet.
Sole Agents:
CRAMPTON
AND]
BRUCE,
=s==®=
%ywf/
ckwTes
IfiWVnH
lim
n
IP
SJi
281
GEORGE ST.,
OPPOSITE]
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OF PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared In the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. guarantees country
visitors and oth'ers the best accommodation, combined with civility.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE FOR 1884
Has been further Improved and Lightened in weight,
The SPECIAL CLUB has always stood at the
head of the trade, and as now improved
is unquestionably the GRANDEST
Machine that has ever been offered.
Our SEMI-RACERS are strong
enough for Road Riding,
and light enough for
the Track
OUR BICYCLES
The Special Club
The Australian. Club
The Universal cto. V
The 6079' Ow 11 jr
&
#
&
' #*
&
Sk
A
'Eh©
©Sreylesimor©
Tbe Imperial Club
The Hwmber Pattern
&e.» &e.
OOR TRI6Y6LES
FOR 1884 combine all
the improvements that were
suggested by the experience of
1883, and as each style of Machine
has been further lightened without decrease
of strength, our TRIGYBLES will be even more
popular in 1884 than they were during 1883.
r
Our Ch.eylesm.ore and Imperial r Club Tricycles-
adventure as if to show that life did not lose all ita
romantic possibilities on the demise of the late
Mr. Alexander Selkirk. On Sunday, the 6th of
v'nuary, Tom’s father, a poor but honest fisher-
man, observed a whale stranded on the beach near
Paislev. While the people were at kirk, father and
son warily approached the leviathan, but, receiv-
ing no satisfactory explanation of the object of
his visit, and naturally desirous that such e. wma-
ffl]' should come their road, had him quickly
ornamented with harpoons. The monster floun-
dered and twisted, but the loss of blood at lnnt
told, and there he lay limp and Quiescent. Tired
with cheir exertions, perc and fils sat down on
their prize, and Tommy commenced whistling
“The Campbells are coming” in a low, re-
flective key. He did not notice that he
was sitting directly over the cetacean s blow-
hole-wedged into it, in fact, with his sturdy,
boyish legs dangling over the side. When picked
uouy a catamaran in the Gulf Stream, he was
covered with bloody blubber, and could give but
an incoherent account of his journey. It appears
that while poor Tom was blowing of his success
rll unconscious of the compressed air chamber to
which he formed an unwitting valve, the whale
determined to blow his nose before finally suc-
cumbing. He did so, and the wretched lather
looaed up only to see his son gyrating west until
he appeared but a struggling sun-spot on the
sinking disc of the orb of day. Thomas has since
-eturned to his parents little the worse tor his
adventures in the higher atmosphere, but it has
been more than once remarked that, when he now
sees a whale coming down the street of Paisley,
he always crosses over the road, or—and this shows
"hat his moral nature is still open to improvement
—running home for one of lus younger brothers,
meanly, we think, endeavours to plug the animal
with his little relative. This, of course, may be
untrustworthy. What is really certain is that
Tom never whistles “ The Campbells are coming,
even on week days, avoids whistling anything on
Sundays, and, before taking a seat, invariably
looks round to satisfy himself there is no orifice in
the neighbourhood.
• • •
Walter Burkitt is dead. He was over 20
vears connected with the Telegraph Department,
'Brisbane, and an O.K. man all through. Now he
has answered his last “ call,” and poor Walter s
line is “clear.”..The late A. K. Finlay, of Glenor-
miston, left the whole of his property, valued at
£BB,OOO, to bis brother, C. C. Finlay. This looks
rough on his wife, the daughter of our Jong-
mourned Sir Hercules.... The N.S.W. Board of
Technical Education are advertising for a teacher
of Plumbling, Where is the Plummer ?.. .What do
vou think of this for a mean widower ? His wife
died and his lodge gave him £lO towards the
funeral expenses. The undertaker had to sue
him for these. But perhaps he spent the lodge-
money in drowning his grief. Grief is even harder
to drown than a cat.... Simms, the brewer, re-
turned to S Australia Upper House for central
district, beating Phil. Santo by 305 votes.. .Frank
Pujalos, who arrived in Gladstone (N.Q.) 29 years
ago a shipwrecked sailor, and who of late years
kept the Digger Arms at Calliope, passed in his
cheques last week O'Connor has issued a
Supreme Court writ against M’Elhone. Slander,
£lO 000 ED. Pitmac.late a Postal inspector in
Victoria, acquitted after two trials (the jury not
agreeing in the first) of a charge of sodomy—
Captain Payne appointed Secretary to the Vic-
torian Royal Humane Society of Australasia.
• • •
Garcia, the gambler, who broke the bank
countless times at all the Kursaals, has turned
monk. He, before this, was a waiter, then a
coachman. Then he descended to monk. Pro-
bably the thought of turning magistrate never
occurred to him... .There was a portrait of Tom
Paine, the Freethinker, as inventor of iron-arched
structures, in the National Portrait Gallery at
South KensiDgton Museum, but certain persons
did not approve of it being there. One man, after
praising it in the blandest tones as a remarkably
amiable countenance, when told whose it was,
suddenly turned round, and said the face showed
nothing hut mischief!. ..Wilkie Collins writes
about 1200 words daily. Manuscript sends ordi-
nary comps. on the “John Collins.”... .Professor
Huxley’s son prospective English poet-laureate..
A man in Louisville has a silver skull. He s about
the only party who can “ pop his skull when hard-
up As leading counsel for O Donnell s defence,
Mr. Charles Bussell received a retaining fee or
2000 guineas The installation of the Prince of
Wales as Grand Mark Master of Freemasons was
the occasion of great festivities. A grand ' ua “
eta eon at two o’clock, with a still grander dinner
only two anda-half hours later, was a performance
worthy of a confraternity which has invested
the art of dining with the solemnity of a religious
function.”.... The great Matthew Arnold is said to
combine in himself all the possible detects ot a
public lecturer. That’s good for one man. Ibe
only parts of his speech heard were aptly described
as “Oases of sound in a desert of inaudibility. ...
Tennyson’s first poem was written on a slate.
Those who read his ode to John Brown think it a
pity he didn’t keep to the slate... Count Kedern,
Chief Master of Ceremonies, Berlin, lett four mil-
lions sterling. A lucky nephew pomes in for the
lot ...Henri Ketten, the late gifted pianist, has
left one little child, aged 9, entirely destitute.
Parisians organising relief concerts.
Parents, do not use vile drugs or nostrums
in your families, but use pure Hop Bitters. See
and read.
Help, or I perish! Thousands of persons
in bad health, and those suffering with disease,
feel that if they do not get relief soon, it. will be
too late. They realise that their malady is
gradually destroying their lives. To all such we
say, in good faith, try Bristol’s Pills and Sarsa-
parilla; they have cured thousands who were in
despair, and why not you
Tne Diamond Dyes are the nest dyes made
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dyes in this market. Why ? Because
they are true to colour every time, andean always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other dyes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; 6d. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
Nothing so quickly cures Coughs. Whooping
Cough, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
Balsam. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
phlegm. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
a small bottle often cures. Ask for “Arnold’s’
and get it; spurious imitations are sometiircs
offered.
Quite a sanguinary revolution is now in
full blast in some of our country municipalities
touching matters social and sanitary, and in fact
touching all things in general. The day— or rather
the night—when the aromatic billygoat and the
gentle, lowing Mae ooula lie down together in
peace under the akter nan’s front veranc ala, wliilst
relief gangs ol Infill itrious pigs carefilify O ;ca-
vated his back ET,rda;;i, has now passed a Tinigo ie ;
aye, the time hen noxr come when he wl o lion nds
Mother Flaherty’s goat, or brains the mongrel
belonging to the local barber, considers be has
done the State a oervice. So great is tbe r,;; si fo-
ment caused, that even the aesthetic, cmlofaayed
Alfred steps down from his lofty throne and lets
up on his favourite themes, such as “ Dead Dog
Gully—the Evening News is sold by Potts, the
bellman Alderman Scott again complains of
the night-soil nuisance”—in order to devote the
whole of his gigantic genius to a laudatory notice
of the Coonamble municipal dead-cart and “its
attendant Jehu.” The “bait distributor” also
appears to “take well,” as the number of the
slain on the 28th inst. amounted to 35, and included
dogs, cats, and chookies.” Even the ethereal
Ekker hymns a pcean of praise to the City Fathers
of Young for the decided manner in which they
compelled a leading ratepayer to have his pigsty
cleansed at least once every twelve months j
whether it required the same or not. Casino ajso
appears to be shaken to its very centre in its wild
endeavours to discover which are the most profit-
able and desirable objects for the city to support-
cows or snakes. It appears that unless the grass is
not allowed to flourish in the main streets the
citizens’ cows will starve, and if it is allowed to
grow the whole place will bo overrun with snakes.
Party feeling is therefore raised to boiling heat.
All the Never-touch-its are in favour of cows,
whilst the Anti-teetotalers as just as mad for the
snakes, because whisky is the only remedy known
for bites up there, and, of course, a plentiful sup-
ply of snakes means a like amount of “John
Jamieson.” Just at present, the reptiles have the
show of hands.
For screaming drollery, the “ Society
Gossip ” of the Melbourne D.T. is a “ bad ’un to
beat,” always, but anything choicer than the fol-
lowing it has never been our privilege to discuss:
“It is stated that the handsome, accomplished,
young Duke of Portland lias made overtures of
suit to the eldest daughter of the Prince of Wales.
.... The young Duke is a splendid, manly
fellow, and the young princess is a sweet, simple,
loveable, English girl, and gossip has it that the
Duke has admiration and love for the sweet girl
for her own sake, and that her parents have deep
respect for the personal character and almost
bewitching personality of this fine, perhaps finest,
flowering of this old house of Portland.” We are
not disposed to quarrel with the D.T. for reviving
this twaddling three-months-old tale, as one of
the “very latest;” on the contrary, we must
express admiration for the way in which our old
friend has been dished up. The D.T., you see,
being a piety paper, can’t be expected to know too
much about such mundane mortals as Dukes, but
that’s no reason why it shouldn’t write about
them. The quack professor, in Douglas Jerrold’s
play “ Time works Wonders,” on mentioning that
he is about to give a lesson in Chinese, draws from
a sceptical young friend the remark “Do you ;
understand Chinese, then?” “That’s not the |
point, young man,” says the Professor, “ I teach
it.” And so the D.T. man has evolved a descrip-
tion of this particular Duke out of the penny illus-
trated journals and his own inner conscious-
ness. He is a “splendid, manly fellow,
with an almost, bewitching personality.” Is
he? Now. we will unlock our treasury of
knowledge (which, in the matter of Dukes,
is pretty considerable), and pour into the
lap of the D.T. man a few particulars of Portland’s
personal appearance. Well, his “ bewitching per-
sonality” comprises a long thin face, a long thin
nose, a flyaway chin, two little eyes, an important
sized mouth, a mud-tinted complexion, a head
little larger than a full-blown pimple, and an ex-
pression like—well, like most Dukes have. The
ducal body is alse long, thin, and not too upright;
and the ducal legs are long, thin, and inclined to
turn inwards at the knee. And the ducal mind
(we’d almost forgotten the mind—one seldom
thinks of such things in connection with the aris-
tocracy) is just about as bewitching as his personal
attractions'. If the “character” and “person-
ality” of the Duke of Portland can inspire the
“ deep respect ” of the Prince of Wales, we can
only vaguely guess at the place which our office
boy would hold in His Royal Highness’ estimation,
if they were but acquainted. Still, as the last
ducal representative of this “ old house of Port-
land ” was a hopeless lunatic, the present one may,
perhaps, be accepted as a very “ fine flowering,”
indeed—from a Portland point of view.
A correspondent who sent us from Cooma
some poetry, and stated that he was suffering
under a “great social wrong,” and to whom we
courteously accorded a par., writes (in prose, this
time):—“You are quite right—they do keep me
long hours at the sausage machine—grinding out
saveloys for bloated editors.” So we guessed
right, after all! “Great heads” are we not?
Well, we have something to be thankful for. We
have cured our Cooma correspondent of writing
poetry—though we are afraid it is not in our
power (however much we might wish to do so) to
cure him of being kept too long hours at the
sausage-machine. There is one expression in his
esteemed favour, however, that we cannot but
deprecate. That is “bloated editors.” Can it be
possible that rhe editors of the local papers have
become “bloated” through devouring sausages I
If so, how many a Sydney reporter would
yearn for a country editorship! Some people talk
of "Love’s young dream;” these little know what
it’S to write poetry for a paper one half the night
and dream of beef the other. Was there ever, we
wonder, except at Cooma, an editor who was
enabled to procure enough sausages to get bloated
upon. We think not. We are doing pretty well
ourselves, but we don’t mind admitting we lay in,
matutinally (from economical motives), a Arm
foundation of the Oriental dish called “burgoo”
before ordering the attendant slave to whisk it
out of the frying-pan with the three-pronger.
But there are plenty of things editors can get
“bloated” on besides sausages. Look how often
the side-walk has had to be repaired from the
side-walk to Punch’s corner I But, putting aside
bloatedness, the question now arises: What is it
best to work upon ? “ What,” said Mr. Boffin, to
that arch-impostor AVegg, “do you usually read
on ?” before that ligneous worthy commenced the
adventures of “Yittleus” in the “Riseand Fall
of the Roosian Empire.” “ I usually do it,”
was the unmoved reply, “on gin-and-water.”
Well, Byron is said to have written “on ”
the same tack, and we modestly admit
having tried it. Not with any success, however.
We have always experimented on cider with simi-
lar results ; and one trial of colonial beer sufficed
to make us write enough “wholesome fun” to
have killed a dozen healthy journals. What we
have found to be the most successful mental tonio
is honey-water. She leaning upon your shoulder,
and a truss of her golden hair trailing over the
rim of her shoulder. But this is what especially
inspires you. You write—
From out that gorgeous noon is heard
The sweet song of the twinkling bird—
and then she says—“A moment, ducky, please.
Fowls are 4s. od. a pair. Twinkling bird reminded
me.” Then you were asked if you wouldn’t mind
just stopping for a minute to chop a little wood
for the morning, as Ann Jane has gone to the play
with her soldier, and then just “step” round
to the police station to enquire after little
Johnny, who, it has just been discovered,
has been missing since early morning. These
little hints, might, we consider, be worked up
with advantage for the instruction of budding
lournalists in the form of an Elementary Literary
Temier. This recalls to our recollection that we
have left our Cooma correspondent out in the cold
for some considerable time. But, there 1 there I
He will do very nicely in life, we have no doubt.
What was killing him—what was heaping upon
him mountains ot “ social wrongs ’’—was this: He
was trying to do what mortal never accomplished
before. Grinding out simultaneously a sausage
and a stanza. Besides, he ought to content him-
self with the fact that his sausages are, probably—
or they must be made of mule-meat—superior to
bis stanzas.


CM
RUM-r?2®
Prepared according to the directions of Prof.
E. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Mass.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENBED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
IMPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESB,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &c.
Kt" No Danger can Attend its Us*.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
Sandusky, 0., May 21, 1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro*
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull
heavy head, it is of undoubted value. Fast grow*
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
Boston, Mass., May 18, 1880.
In regard to the Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with the most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. S. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horsford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, and always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, ‘ it acts like a charm,’ produciug the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com-
position, stands unrivalled. It is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed it with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juice, and aa such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D.
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
2v£a,gric Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internally
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm/'
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, bu
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, curing pains as water quenches fire. It cure?
Sprains, Headache, Sciatica,
Brnises, Toothaohe, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lame Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readily cures Colic,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp*
theria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported Into this country, and have
gained throughou the colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are all of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the Iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery Is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their Sinish
BECAUSE they are each and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say they are THI
BEST.
American Carriage Emporium*
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON .MOIffAM & CO*
Mi* A««nt*
FACT FANCY
FOCUSSED
Granny makes the serious (we believe
accurate) indictment against cer.ain N.S.W. banks,
that they cook their statutory quarterly accounts
of assets and liabilities. Might not messieurs the
Treasury officials advantageously report now and
then upon the figures and arithmetic, as giA-en in
those accounts V As wo said the other day, there s
too much bank reserve about the bank reserve....
A black tracker, at Tambo ((j.), some time since,
Avent and informed the sergeant that one of his
subordinates could not spell correctly. Pretty
rough on the constabulary A £lOOO pearl has
been found by M’Kay Bros., in West Australia.
They intend evidently to M’Kay while the——(No,
you don’t. We’ve suffered enough already
through this sort of thing [Ed.B.]. .... A
Melbourne Romeo, was last week eased ot £lBO, in
Juliot-iane, by three graces or the pare.... Benj-
amin and Susan Clegg have been each sentenced in
Adelaide to tAvo years’ imprisonment with hard
labour for incest, they, being brother and sister,
having lived together as man and wile since 18 1 8.
According to English law, incest is a crime only
cognisable by the ecclesiastical courts. In Scot-
land it is a capital offence....The screw steel s.s.
Irresistible, 93 tons register, arrived in Sydney last
Aveek. She Avas built to order by Edwards and
Syme, London, for James Halstead’s fleet of
passenger accommodation and towage traffic
steamers. On her voyage out she proved herself a
good sea-boat... S.S. Cairngoro, 1166 tons register,
the pioneer boat of a line to trade between Loudon
and Fiji, arrived in Sydney last week. She was
built last year at Dunbarton—Profits of Austra-
lian Tobacco Co. (Vic,) for past twelve months,
£l5OO. Bishop Moorhouse smoked during that
time Sellers gone home to fetch Moody
and Sanky to Melbourne. Now for bliss!....Silver
claims at Barnes Ranges, assay 10,000 oz. to ton.
First cargo of avool ever shipped direct from
Australia to Boston arrived at that port on the 25th
uit D. C. J. Dowling is off to ’Frisco on vaca-
tion. We hope he’ll leave some of his musty joke 3
there.... Tom Bent, of Victoria, learned in India
that the mongoose is bound to become, in Aus-
tralia, as great a pest as the rabbit. He needn’t
have gone to Calcutta to learn that. Had he only
studied his Bulletin he Avould have known as
much months ag0.... At the meeting of the Sydney
Corporation held last week, it was reported that
the Avater in No. 4 dam, Botany, was entirely con-
sumed ...” &-erson ” is an original way of spelling
“ Anderson.’ At Bourke, the position of affairs
is grave: local community agitating for a n«w
cemetery site... .Shower of mud fell the other day
at Inglewood, Victoria. Also in the Sydney Legis-
lative Assembly.. During ’B3 the folloAving amounts
for advertising were paid to undermentioned
papers:—“Herald £lO2B, Echo £l7, Sydney
Mail £4O, Evening News £945, Town and
Country £93, Daily Telegraph £554, Tribune
£ll .400 quarter-casks of "infused” tea con-
signed 1 ram Sydney stopped by the Melbourne Cus-
toms. The “ line ” is to be returned to Sydney —
Last Thursday, in Phelps-street, Surry Hills,
William Rice shot James Griffin or Byrnes dead
Avith a revolver. Her name is Sophia Holmes.
Granny thus moralises re this case “ This pro-
pensity to make free with dangerous weapons has
in many cases borne bad fruit.” Quite so. Like-
Avise it may be asserted that the effect of putting
an extinguisher upon a candle is to put out the
light T. K. Abbott, P.M. at Maitland, gets the
vacancy caused by Dillon's resignation, but
Buchanan takes the senior chair—Railway guard
Watson to get £25 reward for the prompt assist-
ance he rendered when constable Hodgkinson was
shot by Denneen whilst en route to Picton The
steamers Garonne and Doric, on Nov. 16, entered
Plymouth Sound (Eng.) together, the former
having returned from Australia via the Suez
Canal, and the latter from New Zealand via Cape
Horn. From the time they sailed from Plymouth,
on July 28, they had not been within sight of each
other till within about an hour of their return to
that port Bags containing dynamite, with
clockwork mechanism attached, have been found
concealed in the Victoria, the Charing Cross, and
Paddington railway stations, London. Function-
aries in a blue funk. Irish Americans, of course,
said to be at work Rabbits fast increasing in the
Wimmera district Tendons in tail of kangaroo
best material for tying up wounds and closing
blood-vessels. Claws on feet best material for
opening them. Thus is preserved the “ balance
of power.” Matthew Burnett says since ’63 he
has induced 100,000 to sign the pledge. Returns
wanted of the percentage of that crowd who have
broken it since. ...Brewer Aitkens (Vic.) will
proved under £93,689.. .Messrs. Swallow and Ariel
have made a new kind of biscuits. They are
sugar-iced and flavoured with the essence
of . chocolate, cinnamon, raspberry, and lemon,
and are called “ The Coalition.” Now, is
that not contempt of the ’Ouse? Speci-
mens containing 1000 oz. gold obtained last week
at Wilmot Extended, Gympio— In last half
of 1883, the S. A. Vermin Board destroyed 526 dogs.
7704 kangaroos, 3838 wallabies. 35,779 rabbits, and
235 eaglehawks, at a cost of £1785 New Guinea
supposed to be known as early as 323 b.c. Don
Jorges Menengis, a Portuguese, struck it in 1526.
So that it’s a very old Guinea, after a11....The
Anderson method of transferring railway trucks
from a narrow to a broad gauge line, and vice versa,
tried m Adelaide last week, with partial success.
Axles work telescopically On the 27th ultimo,
the s.s. Menmuir was beached at Port Darwin, and
her screw propeller repaired. She sailed for China
on the 28th—The Linnean Society of N.S.W. offer
£lOO as a prize for best essay on the life history of
the bacillus of typhoid fever Shock of earth-
quake felt at Braid wood on Friday last The
electric rail is to supersede the telegraph wire
Last week the s.s. Duke of Buckingham left New-
castle with 3510 tons of coal, said to be the largest
cargo ever taken from there—Postal and Tele-
graph Departments now lit by Edison incandescent
light The Lachlan has stopped running, firsc
time since 1869. ..Snakes and death-adders galore
in the sand-hills beyond Paddington rifle targets...
The first important case that came before the new
Victorian County Court Judge, Mr. Hickman
Molesworth, is fizzing. The jury found a man
with the historic name of John Bunyan guilty of
common assault and recommended him to be
fined. The Judge exercised his “discretion,” and
sent him to gaol for six months. The jury in globo
petition Governor to release him, r sserting that
they would have acquitted him bad they known
the “jedge was sichlike.” Dcakin is a regular
glutton for work. Ho now holds six portfolios.
For work? No, no; for portfolios 5245 Odd-
fellows in Victoria. Half a million more, only
they’re not registered Duckett stole a copy of
the Age: six hours imprisonment. Roberts stole
a cabbage: one monta. How many Ages is that
a cabbage is worth? Mr. William Kidney, a
member of the Melbourne Hospital committee,
complains that his brother members have con-
demned spirits which he was instrumental in intro-
ducing. Another case of Kidney complaint, of
course—Enthusiasts propose to send Colonel
Bargood out to save Egypt. Victoria willing, but
oin’t spare him just now. Can spare the enthu-
siasts, however—Victorian Coffee Palace Com-
pany cut up 31)4 tons meat last half Concilia-
tion Courts to get a trial in Victoria. Reconcilia-
tion Courts will follow, perhaps —Benjamin
Douglas is to have a life-sized bust in Trades Hall.
Right. Bust him . .Only one block of the
mallee remains unoccupied. Work of a mallee-
able coalition.... Mr. Alley, P.M., announced
at the Collingwood Court that no girl should be al-
lowed to be out of her house after 7 PM. Decid-
edly not. Nor after 1 P.M. either. He said the
streets were dangerous. Possibly. But the alleys
are more so, Poor Bolam, Strauss’s disciple 1
Let him lie Professor Rentoul won’t take no-
thing from nobody at St. Kilda, and Avon’t give
nothing nayther to nobody—not even his name to
the neAV building. The building doesn’t care a
cent... Abolishing all fog-horns and steam Avhistles
in Melbourne. Right. Noav for church bells...
The press-boxes and dock in Melbourne new Law
Court are complained of by occupants. Why not
change Avith one another?—John Quail appointed
to prevent illegal netting of fish in Gippsland
lakes. Should have kept him at feathered game..
Harbour Trust about to order a steam dredge,
value £27,500. Most poAverful made in England
140 tons hay and 15,000 gallons wine consumed by
fire, at Morris’s: near Rutherglen (extract from
next Christmas Pantomime, locally adapted; “O
hay vines!” The hits next year will be more
sparkingly witty than ever before) Want a
nautic tl schoolship, a la Vernon, at Melbourne.
But it’s the personal power of Neitenstein that
makes our Vernon a success. They can build the
ship right enough, but hoAV are they going to
build a Neitenstein ? ribbons 8000 distributed
by Booth at Exhibition in first Aveek. Men-
milliners Lewis Samuel, successful tenderer
for constructing new gracing dock at Biloela;
£135,078: length of dock 600 ft., width 108 ft.; depth,
neap-tides, 30ft.; contract time 3 years—Tas-
manian Volunteer officers Avho are also M.P.’s
resigning their seats; liable to penalty; office of
profit under the Crown Young Walsh died
Saturday, victim of recent Queenbean coach
accident.
* * *
A grand Roman Catholic cathedral on a
design borrowed from the Votivkirche, Vienna,
about to be built on the site of the Tothill Fields
Prison, Westminster “Now,” s«id the temper-
ance lecturer, “you see I have a glass of empty
Avater. If you use a microscope, you will discover
that the Avater contains a number of insects. But
it I pour the smallest quantity of this whisky in it,
the poison Avill kill the insects. Think, then, of the
deadly effects of Avhisky.” Thereupon, an old
woman: “Then, thank God for the whusky.”
Amen! The pay of the British gunner is to be
raised, the Artillery strength being 2000 short...
During 1883, fifteen commissions were given to the
“ranks”—four in the Cavalry, three in the Coast
Brigade of Artillery, and eight in the Infantry of
the line. The bulk of these commissions were to
“well-connected” felloAvs, who had enlisted A
washable sponge sole to be used during route
marching by soldiers troubled Avith perspiring
feet to be adopted in the army. A German idea.
... A monthly journal for the Army Medical
Department about to be published “Chinese”
Gordon reigned his commission in Her Majesty’s
Service (Royal Engineers) in January. ..The
old house selected by Charles Dickens as the
scene of many of the incidents recorded in
the “Old Curiosity Shop” (No. 14 Portsmouth-
street, Lincoln’s-Inn-Fields, and the last house in
the parish of St. Giies-in-the-Fields, although
generally believed to be in St. Clement Danes),
was pulled doxvn in December last For sixty
appointments as receivers in bankruptcy in Eng-
land, lately, no less than a-quarter ot a million of
applications were received... Ayoub Khan, who
Avas deposed from the throne of Afghanistan for
his suspected complicity in the massacre of the
members of the Cavagnari mission, has been im-
prisoned in Persia On New Year’s Day the new
Bankruptcy and Patents Acts came into operation
in England. Increased State supervision is the
basis of the former measure; the latter, besides
cheapening protection for patents, abolishes the
principle by Avhich the Government might appro-
priate an invention to the service of the State
without rewarding the inventor The Alexandria
Indemnity awards will tot up to £4,500,000 sterling.
Poor fellahs! Colonel Marshall Clarke, R.A.,
appointed Resident Commissioner in Basuto-land...
The total cost of the pageant in London on Lord
Mayor's Day, 1883, was £3850. Half paid by him,
the other half paid between the two sheriffs
Admiral Miot succeeds Galtber in the French naval
command at Madagascar The works at the
Panama Canal are being vigorously pushed. The
whole length has been divided into sections, all of
which, except the terminal ones, which the com-
pany itself take charge of, are let. At Colon,
some 3000 Avorkmen are at work. The dam to bar
the course of the Chagres is being fast proceeded
with 2nd Battalion of the 50th en route to
Alexandria Count Wimpffen, late Austrian
Ambassador to Paris, dead In the Imperial
Parliament, t’other day, a horse was defined by an
hon. member as “an animal which bit you at one
end, kicked you at the other, and made you feel
uncomfortable in the middle.” Henceforth, on
active service the British soldier is to carry in his
valise a pair of light canvas waterproof slippers
instead of a second pair of boots, xvhich are now
to be carried in the first line of transport J. H.
Toavlc, of the Draycott Mills, Derby, states in a
letter to London Truth that the late Thomas
Holloway would not pay any of the firms
Avhich opposed his discharge on his insolvency in
1839. He always replied that such persons bad no
legal claim on him, and evaded any reference to
his honourable feeling Proposed British Fran-
chise Bill Avill create tAvo million more voters
Gordon threatens Soudanese Avith a British occu-
pation if they don’t behave. His influence bn the
Avane. ..Indian railway system opened to Quetta
in Kelat, Beloochistan, on the Scinde frontier of
British India. Quetta commands the Bolan Pass.
Since ’77 it has had a British garrison In the
Soudan: Tokar surrendered to Osman Digna on
the 28th ultimo ; on the 29th, General Graham’s
column came up with the “insurgents” in the
neighbourhood of El Teb, and defeated them after
a hard day’s fighting. The British cablegrammer
reports, of course, that the news of Graham's
magnificent success has created the greatest enthu-
siasm in Great Britain and among the loyal Egyp-
tians. A magnificent success, in truth, a veritable
Blenheim—troops d'ilite, armed with weapons of
precision, against a horde of undisciplined though
valiant Arabs.
Hangman Binns was recently lined 20s.
for travelling by train from Huddersfield to Dews-
bury without a ticket. Perhaps he thought he
was entitled to travel free on a loop line.
A third comet has been discovered by a
gentleman living; in Castlcmaine, Vic. This is the
head-quarters of the Castlemaine Brewery. We
only mention this as a piece of topographical in-
formation.
Sirenry has declared to the men of Glas-
gow that, in the ev’ent of England being involved
in war, New South Welshmen will rush to the
tented field in her behalf. It would be well were
one New South Welshman to hie him back from
Britain to (represent) his Tenterfield out here.
The Forbes and Parlces Cooke remarks
that “ if there is one thing more than another that
tends to the happiness of humanity it is music.
As the ancients said: emollit mores nee sine (sic)
esseferos.” This is a sign thatthe F. and P. Cooke
isn’t a Latinist; if he were one, he wouldn't, when
dragging in that hackneyed quotation, sign it
“sine,” Avhen “sinit ” isth e sine qua non.
Writing of Melbourne, the “ Vagabond ”
says: “I may roam far, yet the end of my tether
will always be here.” We should be sorry to think
that. And yet Dr. Thomas knows his own busi-
ness best. He is a man of wide experience, and,
perhaps, has noticed that they do the thing in a
neater style in Pentridge. Anyhow, it is a very
graceful compliment to the Victorian Marwood.
If we were firm believers in the Pytha-
gorean theory of the transmigration of souls, we
should certaialy say the spirit of George Washing-
ton now tenants the body of George Wheeler, one
of the creAv of the ship Samoa. Speaking of the
recent Java “ quake ” this veracious gentleman
stuffs the Hunter-street fossils with the startling
intelligence that for two days after, the bust up,
his ship ploughed through masses of dead bodies,
hundreds and hundreds striking the ship on both
sides, groups of 50 to 100 all packed together.
There’s the making of a first-class Town and
Country correspondent going to waste in the
person of George Wheeler.
We’ve got it this time. What is an indica-
tion of their not wishing machine woik in garden-
ing done in Canada now ? Because they want no
Lome rnow’r. Now, hand over the papier maclu
tray and the tea and coffee set.
Belgium supports 6,000,000 of prosperous
people, and exports large quantities of produce
raised on the same quantity of land that, in Eng-
land, lies idle and useless in the shape of sporting
grounds, preserves, and plutocrats’ parks. No
wonder London and other large English cities
swarm with poverty, famine, and crime.
Up Normanton the latest thing out in the
way of fashionable jewellery is a lace pin repre-
senting a silver alligator swallowing a jet pican-
niny. For gentlemen, a black gin chewing the
butt-end of a Chinaman’s leg is quite the O.K.
thiug for scarf-pin patterns. The cultivation of
the beautiful is evidently on the move since John
Plummer began to lecture.
To “put a head” on a man who insults
you, is a fit and proper masculine method of reta-
liation; but lovely woman, with the spirit of con-
trariness peculiar to her sex, prefers, at times, to
follow the exactly opposite course. For instance,
Mrs. Whitley, of Walton County, Georgia, took
this opposite course with a Mr. Diall. When ho
insulted her, she blew his head off— with a gun.
The Marquis Tseng, speaking of his 2pour-
parlers with Jules Ferry, observed: “ Our conver-
sation consists in exchanging civili'ies, in saying
agreeable things, in passing each other delicate
morsels on very ornamental plates; but neither
he nor J touch the morsels. We are always
afraid there is a little poison lurking in them.”
Frank, that: more frank, possibly, than Frankish
Ferry appreciated.
“Lounger,” in the Freeman tie paper, asks
“ Who is the musical critic for the Perth organ of
culture and refinement?” How in thunder do
Ave know? Avhat in brimstone do we care ? It’s
quite enough for us to know our own musical
critics. Some people are so awfully difficult to
avoid. No previo knowledge is required for a
produce-reporter’. “You can nose him in the
lobby or say the Domain.
The Grand Old Man thinks that the pro-
spects of British agriculture rvould materially
brighten were farmers to pay greater attention to
the cultivation of fruit and eggs. In a develop-
ment of the home jam and egg trade, he sees the
(preserving and frying) panacea for the existing
depression. With regard to his suggestion about
fruit cultivation, Gladstone evidently had in mind
Horace’s “ Jam jam futurus rustieus."
A leading Boston (U.S.), journal says: “It
would be more to the credit of Tennyson, in the
book of fame, if he had disdained the revrard
usually reserved for rich brewers and sharp poli-
ticians.” But then, as K. B Smith would observe,
that’s a demned low republican way of looking at
the matter. What’s the book of fame to the Eng-
lishman’s Bible, Debrett! To get into that means
£s. d. for one’s remote posterity. Alfred isn’t
such a blooming fool after all; he sees lucre in the
prostitution of his laureateship to the genius of
flunkeyism.
There appears to he a good opening for an
industrious Mr. Plimsoll across the Border, for
Captain Payne declares that according to the
maritime laws of Victoria a \ r essel which happens
to be a steamer can be prevented from going to
sea in an unworthy condition, but if it were a
sailing A’essel it could set out from the port of
Melbourne as full of holes as the reputation of a
political underground engineer and with a wall-
eyed Mongolian cook out of Bourke-street for a
skipper. Wonder how we stand ourselves as re-
gards the same subject ?
Two mad Englishmen amused themselves
in a curious way lately. One bet a heavy sum that
he could run 1000 yards before the other could
swallow a penny roll. The runner won. The
young men on the daily papers will probably smile
at this. As well they may. We remember the
time when a produce reporter on the News staff
would swalloAV a dozen raw eggs and a round of
ham before the rival man on tue Bum could get
Avithin a block of him. But those palmy days are
past. The spirit of Bohemianism is dead. The
reporters of the good old time used to spend their
salaries in “liquoring up,” and leave the question
of hash to Providence. They don’t trust Provi-
dence to such an extent noAv-a-days.
Of course, you have read it. But, never
mind, you can rend it again—during the sermon, if
you like. An oak tree was cut down in an English
Avood, lately. One of the planks had a curious
knot in it. The knot proved to be a peg of yew.
Some gay gallant, in the year 1632—counting by the
rings on the tree—had bored a hole in the oak and
closed it up Avith the peg. In the hole he had
hidden a lock of his SAveetheart’s hair. It Avas
bright red. No Avonder he hid it. And yet we
suppose a poem will be Avritten about this. We
have a poet out on a farm who could do it, if he
had sufficient time and whisky. But he hasn't
either. The farmer keeps him hoeing all day, and
lends him out to a fisherman at night.
The Victorian Minister of Lands has set
himself to destroy a most flourishing native in-
dustry. Heretofore, when suburban lands Avere
put up to auction, they were marked off into largo
blocks. A few speculators stepped in, arranged
how high they would go, and bought them up.
Then, as soon as they could hold a council and get
lithographs ready, they cut the blocks into small
allotments for cottages and villas, and auctioned
them to small men at a handsome profit. Mr.
Tucker doesn’t see Avhy he should not auction
them out in the same Avay, and bring the profit
into the Treasury. And he says he’ll do it. The
middlemen, who always Avorked so zealously for
tucker, now object to Tucker altogether.
Writing from Madrid to the London
Times, one Joseph M’Pherson (funny name for a
fcpaniard that) observes : “ Desirous of obtaining
positive proofs of the brilliant theory put forth in
your columns relative to the cause of the remark-
able appearances at sunrise and sunset which have
for many days excited public attention, I have
analysed some fresh fallen snow with the folloAV-
ing results, namely, that I have found crystals of
hypersthene, proxine, magnetic iron, and volcanic
glass, all of which have been found in the analysis
lately made at Paris of the volcanic ashes from the
eruption of Java.” This of course entirely bursts
up the theory that our remarkable red sunsets
are caused by a well-known sporting prophet
having gone up in a balloon to tout the gallops of
Martini-Henry,
B. A. Moses, the Armidale tanner, asks:—
“ Will it be belieA'ed, that owing; to our truly
marvellous railway tariff in charging for leather
sent to Sydney first-class rates, £3l4s. Bd. per ton—
and if sent to Newcastle third-class rates, £6 9s. 2d.
per ton—l am absolutely debarred from shipping
leather direct from Newcastle to London, and
compelled, under a penalty of £2 14s. 6d. per ton,
to place my goods in the hands of a Sydney agent,
submit to shiftings and handlings, shipments and
transhipments, charges, and vexatious delays—and
all for Avhat ?” Will it be believed ? Rather; since
in railway administration as in other things there
are Avheels within Avheels; though Avhen this is
hinted to Goodchap he waxes wroth and indites
sarcastic memos to the text of Credat Judaeus.
Here we are —wrong again ? It seems we
said in a par. that Gunnedah was barberless—a
supposition, we suppose, conjured up by a view
of one of the local editors without his hat on.
“ Fitzgerald Brothers,” however, write to us in a
naturally indignant sti’ain, saying" We beg to
tell you that your authoritative informant has
uttered a perverse preA r arication of the truth, or
he knows nothing at all about it, as we have a
tonsorial professor working for us whose equal in
ability was never in Gunnedah before.” Then,
curtly: "We expect you will publish thR” Of
course we will. It is easy to see nous avons affaire
with those Avho won’t bear trifling with. Besides,
we love this good old British outspokenness! We
aro sorry we can't have their splendid artist here
to give us our “twice-a-weeker;” but, since the
tonsorial professor can’t let us have a shave,
perhaps he will oblige us with some of his poetry.
Now, we trust we have poured oil—or we should
rather say lather—on the troubled waters.


Gs. «d. 7s. Gd. Ss. Gd. per pair
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 414 Uaorfjfe-
street, opposite the Central Entrance to the
Markets),
has solved the problem of the season, and pro-
vides EXQDISITE GIFTS from ss. to £5:
Articles of dainty design and enduring beauty,
which will give delight at the first glance, and
will last a lifetime.
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very latest discovery
of the alchemist’s laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
it; but all have been thrown into the shado by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
Oriental Gold cannot, after years of wear, be dis-
tinguished from the costliest wares of tne gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdry
goods of old and inferior designs are manufac-
tured of it. The discoverers have not condescended
to apply it to base uses.
THE VERY LATEST DESIGNS IN JEWELLERY
AND BIJOUTERIE
are regularly worked up in Oriental Gold simul-
taneously with their production in sterling metal,
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
GOLD IS BUT A TRIFLE
when compared with identical models of sterling
metal.
Some of the goods are mounted with the NEW
DIAMONDS, another masterpiece of the chemists
of the nineteenth century—artificial stones which
equal the noblest brilliants in fire and glitter, and
rival them in hardness.
The Artist-designers of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthy to
receive their happiest conceptions. The most
graceful Parisian models are impressed upon a
portion of our stock, which is replenished with
novelties by every mail.
CALL AND INSPECT—EXACTLY OPPOSITE
THE MARKETS;
or, if a resident of the country, write and ask a
friend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome,
and not pestered to buy, hecause we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our goods without being
astonished and delighted with their variety, ele-
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty—and such
impression, spread among acquaintances, do us
good all the time.
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At ss. each.
A Neat Soarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Ring.
A Set or Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A Pair of Jewelled Bar-rings.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. Ail. each.
Handsome Brilliant Ring.
Beautiful Charm.
Eleg-ant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladles’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rings.
Ladies’ Gem King.
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15*. each.
Choice Socket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Set with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar Stud.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £5l each.
Ladies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch.
Ladies’ Tasselled 81ide Albert.
Gentlemen’s Fob Chain, with Steel
Pendant.
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Designs.
Ladies’ Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased.
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
highly finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady’s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watch, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert,
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.)
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases—a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Goid Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Geit’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At *5.
A Combination Paroel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe— lf the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, wo
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch*
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to-
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—” Rip Van Winkle” p- 8.
aoturday night saw the last of “ Struck
.'’ rn one sense we’re not heart-broken, as
/trust those who have tried) ’tis dreadfully hard to
off anything- original about a thing—no
Matter how meritorious-to ward i the end of a long
1 So, on Saturday night we bowed to the in-
Avitable, gave a valedictory yell in honour of the
Qtofels hung round the bar and sandwiches of the
vtofronolitan till the hint to retire became too
to be trifled with—too personal to beignored
E-and prepared for Monday and ” Rip Van Winkle.”
* * •
-Roth arrived. With the exception of Sue’s
“ Wandering Jew,” and one or two of Bret Harte s
cu'Jtchel we know of no tale that affects us with
fneh pronounced melancholy as Irving s kip Van
wfnkk.” Sounds a little paradoxical, doesntit
win did you ever, after a lapse of fifteen or
Eli!,’,,- vasiVs return in poverty to a place where
t nn D ivere C once well known and well off—return as
o strange, middle-aged beggar to the Place in
S vnu had roystered when life seemed a long
dav-come back to be flouted and chivvied by
rhnse who were a t the breast when you went
If you didn’t, or if, having done so, you
no pangs for the past, then the post of public
■ 1 i<i the onlv one you should strive for —
one that will suit you. Rip (William-
cLnl is as you know, familiar with sorrow and
S Ahnnnns There is a much closer relationship be-
tween*these two than many people like toadmit.
hA uses the one to drown the other. Could he
hifve succeeded in drowning his wife at the same
p. av ® hi thinks his cheerfulness might return. He
«lone°n this opinion, for Frau Van Winkle
(Maggie Moore) is a strong-minded woman, with a
itrnn? arm and a powerful flow of language. In
thA°caresses of this ill-assorted pair, a hoe-handle
Jakes a prominent part. It was always handy on
ta ac s a an(i \ vas wielded by the “Missus”
wflh a dexterity begotten of long and conscientious
Notice Not that she hadn’t cause for such
marital 6 blandishments— for Rip was ane er-do-
wee a vaurien, a loafer whose work consisted in
nhtainfng drink, and relaxation in guzzling it.
Reldnd the village pot-house door there is a long
terribly suggestive chalk score against him
suggestive of nighis of maudlin mirth and tipsy
revelry Above the same door is a halt-length
n f fieoree 111., in epaulettes and three-
?o°rnered ha® Whenever we see a picture of that
talented monarch, we feel how we would have
inved him had our lot been cast in his time. At
nst Gretchen can stand it no longer-especially
she sees Winkle treating the villagers and
hnvainS the girls-so, as the house and furniture
belong to her, she turns him out one wet night,
and trusts he will never darken her door again.
Z Joes, when, womanlike, she wishes him back
again He takes a good look at the cosy interior,
then at the wild outside, and, preferring the latter,
starts for the mountains.
• • •
But he is not lone; alone. The spirit of old
Hendrick Hudson, a long-defunct Knickerbocker,
andhis seventeenth-century henchmen, surround
him They offer him drink-he never refuses that
-and they leave him to his 20 years’ sleep.
* * *
All this offers little scope for talent. It is
m the third act, when Rip awakes from his snooze,
tinds bis beard long and frowsy, his limbs cramped
with rheumatism, his clothes li ke Pe r . lP^ ^ a°
rag-bag, his gun freckled with rust holes, that the
Jeting commences. And it is good, very good. He
“ wanders down the mountain side that
something is “crooked,’ though he can t tell what.
Sometimes he thinks the fault lies with himself,
sometimes with Nature. He learns from some
rn W vv ou ng people, whom he left in their cradles
Jhe ni-ht betbre-as he thinks-that old Van
Winkle had been twenty years dead, and his
widow, Gretchen, flfteen y«ars married to Derrick
Von S aus. The latter tidings restored his good-
humour a little, as ’twas the the first good news
he heard. He remarked with a murderous grim-
ace intended for a smile, but diverted from its
original pnrpose by the few pounds of dirt there
wprpcflked on his face, that “ he know Von Slaus
would come to a bad end ” He forgot the, five
years of loneliness poor Gret iben had gone through
before permitting S aus to pay his devoirs. .This
Yon Slaus (Oily Deering) was an unprincipled
pirate, and his nephew, Cockles ( Harry Taylor), was
very little better, so ’twas no wonder that his long
omnnanionship had such a distressing effect upon
thewtdow Winkle. Her hoe-handle practice had
lon- since ceased. She grew broken-hearted and
submissive. Her time was spent either in bed or
in tears You can guess, then, wbaca relief it was
to her when Rip came back fro n the grave, told
her she had never been absent from his thoughts,
and with the Willing assistance of the neighbours,
tired 'the brutal Slaus and the gibbering Cockles
over the fence.
* * *
We nearly forgot Rip’s daughter Meenie—
aged 6, the bills say. She didn’t look quite so old.
“Are you writing anything funny,”, the boss
Lid to us lust now, “ tha f you re grinning so ?”)
tnd her sweetheart, Hendrich Yedder (lent for
this occasion by the Majerom company). He came
home from seal us t in time to save his fiancte from
the hateful attentions of Cockles, and to bear a
had in starting the latter for the door. We thought
from his dress (short canvas petticoat edged with
blue, bottle-green jacket slashed with red and
broad leather belt, with large brass buckle in
front) that he was either a sea-rover or, at
least, in the smuggling trade. But we soon saw
our mistake, as the belt contained no weapon ot
offence-no four-pounder, hand-spike, or Boat-
hook—not even a battering-ram. So he couldn t
be a smuggler, and was probably a common sailor.
“IRp Van Winkle” was well put on, and the
various parts properly filled.
** * *
Our creditors, children, wife, castles (in Spain),
Goods, great expectations, all—all that we have,
We’d barter to-morrow, and squat in the rain
A month, for a smile from the beautiful Sclav,
• * •
There. If the Signor doesn’t send us a
choice of weapons after that, he isn’t the man we
take him for.— Saturday we looked in on the
Ma ieronis. There was a good payable house, with-
out being overcrowded. Again we saw the grace-
ful “ Sclav,” and tried to cypher out the treasure
that scores of our Sydney ladies would gladly Rive
to be able to manage a lover or a tram so dexter-
ouslv We have spokeh before of Countess Sou-
kareff (MissNovaro) and her doings. Towards men
she is as trusting as the widow Bardell, and as a
rule tinds them as unreliable as that simple lady
found the sly old Pickwick. To fill up the chinks
in her dreary life, she tries play, only to discover
that it also is “ but a sorry diversion. This shows
how little she really knows about lt-what a
stranger she is to the highest form of human
felicity: playing four games of “twenty-fives
for a halfpenny, or “joug whist, without count-
ing honours, for penny points. People who And
no fascination in these pursuits-whosee no tun in
revoking when their opponents are not attending,
or shifting the pegs when their backs are turned-
are sure to end badly. They either become philan-
thropic and build houses foy persons who never
pav rent, or socialistic, and preach such flummery
as “the elevation of the working man, or toy
with dynamite. Even for the lady who marries a
policeman, and opens an oyster-shop in a. country
town, life is not entirely barren. But the woman
who having once tried her band at hazard or
poker finds no solace in cither, is a mistake, an
anachronism, an aes. This is our experience, and
we stand by it. But the gamblers of to-lay, both
male and female, are a degenerate race—unfit to
unloose the shoe-latchets of their predecessors.
You never hear now of the games the early players
had when the D himself wou d occasionally
look in and take a hand. Why, there’s a well-
authenticated story of a poor man who, unaware
that his opponent was the person that suggested
that fatal bite to our common mother so long ago,
played away until all tie had ““not much, tis true
was lost. Then the stranger said, “ You have still
one stake—your soul—are you game to wager
that?” “Faith, lam,” replied the man; “for it’s
never been much good to me, and I daresay it’s
already heavily mortgaged.” It was staked, and
lost. “ It is time to be moving,” said the demon,
betraying his true character by letting out a reef
in his tail; “already I scent the morning air. and
tho cock's shrill matin cannot bo far off. There
are a lot of other lost souls, too, wriggling about
in the bag I’m sitting on, and the ro id is long and
rough. So, come along.” With that he seized the
ruined gamester by the slack and had him half way
into the bag, when, by a sudden twist, he disen-
gaged himself, and the glasses on the table danced
a carmagnole as he brought his fist down on it
with “ Bring out the paste-board again, d you,
and let's go double or quitsl”
• • ■
If we said any more about Glover, you
might think we were standing in with him. We
don’t know him, and we revel in our ignorance.
But his voice, delivery, and a lot of other things
grow upon you till, like the mathematician who
succeeded Newton—
“ Who sat in Newton’s chair
And wondered how the devil ho got there
you begin to wonder why he is playing seoond
fiddle to anyone in Australia—even the Majeronis.
Oh, and Majeroni himself. Really it appears to us
that his voice is getting back to the old form of
long ago. We were not quite sure till we com-
pared notes with others who knew him in former
days, when our opinion was confirmed. And now
we don’t care how soon “ Fedora,” with all its
attractions, makes way for something else, so that
we may have another chance of giving our readers
a treat.
* * * #
At the Academy of Music, pieces inculcat-
ing morality of a very high order are on just now.
It is a singular fact that it is chiefly from the
boards of unpretentious places that morality of
the purest type is enunciated. In London, if you
would see vice always go under and virtue con-
stantly triumph, you must get away from the
theatres where the spoilt childien of fashion spend
so much of their aimless lives—away to where our
tongue is heard in all its simplicity and its strength,
and a healthy, bracing moral atmosphere is to bo
found which puts up with gag, profanity, neg-
lected-uosed children—the smell of onions, even—
but is unpitying towards vice. Ail this passed
through our minds when we attended the “ Aca-
demy ” to see “ The Bottle.”
* * *
But it was “ Margaret Catchpole,” or “A
Page from the Early History of sunny New South
Wales,” that fetched us. For obvious reasons
there are many people in N.B. W. who take little
interest in its early history—prefer to let it alone.
Yes, bless you! We know plenty of persons mov-
ing in the very highest “ surcles,” surrounded
with all the refinements that follow in the train of
large banking accounts, who have an odd aversion
to the most innocent allusion to our early history.
Well, this Margaret Catchpole was the daughter of
English parents, whose poverty and honesty were
about equal, and, as they had bottomed on a
streak of poverty much deeper than any Job had
ever reached, the amount of honesty to be found
in the Catchpole family, when they were all at
home, was probably more than could be dis-
covered in any other English family of their time.
And the time was that of George 111., that talented
monarch to whom England owes so much she can
never repay—who lost America, but found how
apples got into dumplings, and who—graciously
begot George IY. Two young gentlemen loved
Margaret—Will Laud, a smuggler, and one John-
son, who was merely a respectable young fellow
with no special vice. When a decent man and a
scamp are both “ mashed ” on the same girl, it is
easy to guess who has the better show. Respecta-
bility is about the worst recommendation a young
man can take with him when going a-courting.
Bo Margaret drew herself up to her full height,
passed a comprehensively bitter nine-inch smile
round the apartment, said to the misguided John-
son, “ I wish you every happiness. You can
always depend upon me for sufficient sisterly
affection to fill a tram-car, but—l cannot love
you.” She then sat down to a feed of onions and
calcannon enough to make the giant of a travel-
ling circus stick in a gateway.
* ' m *
It is now Will. Laud’s turn. Margaret is
sitting at home one night, reading a tract, when a
smuggler, in a smock-frock, and preceded by a
running fire of vigorous expectoration, intrudes
on her privacy. He introduces himself by sending
the door in about the house with one shove. This
is a customary thing with people in his walk of
life. Then he places before the maiden a carpet-
bag, stuffed with costly articles gloves, laces,
bombazines, and prints—which, he assures us,
“never paid no -juty.’” We believe him. And
this is the proper place to remark that we’ve had
as much experience of smugglers as most men,
but that wu never saw one yet that wasn’t hump-
ing along a carpet-bag as big as a furniture-van.
It is generally empty when he starts from home,
but, on the return trip, you furnish a
country store with the miscellaneous articles it
contains. Where those useful people (the smug-
glers) obtain the goods, how they get them into
the bags and carry them over indifferent roads,
have always appeared to us riddles of the most
bewildering perplexity. He places the articles at
her feet, tells her they come as presents fr om Laud,
puts in her hand a crumpled note, which he ap-
pears to have been chewing on the road, and is
about to retire into the darkness whence he
emerged,| when Margaret stops him. She had
been silent until now, partly through astonish-
ment, and partly because, for the first hour or so
of the interview, the contrabandist kept up such a
Gulf Stream of conversation—let out such an enfi-
lading fire of shrewd observation, stirred up with
ribaldry—that the poor girl never got a show.
But, when she could chip in—Oh, Laud!
* * *
She refuses the gifts-spurns them—sur-
mises they are smuggled—perhaps stolen. She
dwells on the wickedness of endeavouring
to cheat the revenue and gives her
opinions tvith such ilan and point that
the outlaw gradually edges towards the open-
ing he considerately left when on entering he
lifted the door off its hinges. Before finally
departing, limn and thoroughly cowed, his keen
glance swept the apartment till it rested on the
young girl, and finally on the carpet-bag. Then
he snorted—drew his sleeve across his face in the
manner affected by small boys before being ad-
vanced to the pocket-handkerchief division—and
simply remarking “ Weil, I’m d ,” he passed out
into the night, determined to relinquish smuggling
and—to avoid further interviews with religious
females—take a ten-years’ job on a Newfoundland
whaler. We venture to think that just here the
writer of the play is in error in representing Mar-
garet as refusing what the bearer addressed as the
“swag.” Of course, we have heard of young
women of correct principles refusing presents of
jewellery, &c. —especially if they think them
electro-plated—before now. But-aud here we
appeal to the undeviating experience of men of
mature years—did you ever know a female refuse
a ribbon or a pair of gloves ? If you did, and that
you are a poor man, call round at The Bulletin
office, and the proprietors will give you a large
interest in the business simply for the privilege of
being allowed to spread your likeness abroad as
the biggest— # #
But Will, wasn’t tol be put off like this.
The young girl is surprised, surrounded, and borne
away to tne smugglers’ strong-hold. A Cockney
named Muffin Pegs had already found his way there
by mistake—simply by attaching himself to a piece
of rope he saw dangling from the cliff. The rope
is attached to his body in descending, but, on his
arrival, he finds a number of bearded men who
cheerfully volunteer to shift the loop higher, just
so make things comfortable all round. But they
give him a drink first, and the fluid is so exhilarat-
ing, propels the blood through his veins with such
maddening impetuosity, as to almost reconcile
him to the proposed change in the position of the
noose. However, his end is not yet. Laud ap-
pears on the scene, and with a wild yell proclaims
“ We are be-t-e-rayed.” Thenanumber of revenue
officers emerge from hiding. A gun is flred, and
every nook in the outlaws’ lair belches forth an
exciseman. So the curtain descends on a scone or
devastation bearing a painful resemblance to an
Irish election when the wrong man gets in. Not
since we stood on the hustings at Cork, and saw
the “ lancers ” use the flats of their sabres with
gratifying impartiality in showing the “ free and
independent” how to vote, do we remember to
have witnessed a scene of such wiid disorder.
We have seen many means tried for inducing
electors to record their votes f«r the proper per-
son, record them quietly and undemonstratively,
and love their national institutions for placing
such a glorious trust in their keeping. But not
the eloquence of Buchanan, M'Elhone, and Tay-
lor squeezed into one—not all the keen raillery of
Dan O'Connor, the bitter invectives of Henderson
Africanus, or the biting sarcasm and simple
truthfulness of January Davies—is half so effica-
cious in starting a man in a bee-line for the ballot-
box, or suggesting to him that, having performed
his duty to the State, it was about time to run
home and look after his family, as a whack under
the ear from the butt of a linesman’s musket or a
belt from the flat of a heavy dragoon’s sabre away
down near the termination of the spinal vertebrm.
If that doesn’t make him sing “ Kule Britannia,”
or stop his howling—
“ Old Ireland was Old Ireland
When England was a ‘pup,’
An’ Ireland will be Ireland
When England’s * busted’ up.”
it’s because he was suckled on sedition.
* * *
How Muffin Pegs esoapes will probably
remain a dark mystery to the end of time. Will.,
too, gets away, and starts a public-house in Lon-
don. Smugglers, bruisers, and retired Christy-
minstrel people take to public-house keeping with
a certainty as undeviating as the seasons. But
Will’s, existence without Margaret is a blank—a
dull, incoherent life, as arid as a Scotch Sunday or
a Protest ant Standard leader. He sends for
her. She is at service. He begs her to fly to him,
bringing her master’s favourite horse, which can
be disposed of on reaching London. From this it
will be seen that his predatory instincts were still
active. And now comes the oddest incident of the
whole strange story. The maiden that rose
superior to the temptation of a piece of smuggled
lace has no such ridiculous scruples when it comes
to “ shaking ” a horse. This slight incident shows
the aiujior’s keen insight into human nature. It
is a melancholy fact that more ingenious rascality
has been brought to bear on horses—their treat-
ment, dealing, stealing, racing, and “ nobbling
than on any other subject we know—always bar-
ring jurisprudence. Oh ! the tales we could tell
of people, even.in N.S. Wales, who are among our
“leading citizens," and who owe their first start
to their knowledge of how to change a horse’s ap-
pearance, or of what disagrees with him an hour
before a race ! But we must get on. Margaret
dresses as a boy, rides to London, attempts to sell
the animal, is discovered and condemned to
death Those were the days, you know,
when laws were laws—before the puling
sentimentalists of the “Reform Bill” got the
upper hand and substituted ten years in Norfolk
Island, instead of hanging, lor stealing a turnip or
knocking over a rabbit. Her father visits her in
gaol. The keeper gives them a ten minutes ttte-A-
Ute, and leaves them the keys of the door. This is
a habit with gaolers—a confirmed, universal habit,
of which it is now too late to break them. We
have known many of these men. They get the
name of being stern and unrelenting, but it is a
stupid error. Nothing pleases a gaoler better than
to find when he gets up in the morning that all
the poor people in his care are away at a picnic.
So, when Margaret’s father sees the keys and knows
that the keeper is outside sitting behind a couple
of tens and a pair of aces at “ blind all-fours,” ho
takes his coat off, presses it on his daughter, and
beseeches her to run. And now the real beauty of
the girl’s character, and the judicious result of her
early religious training at the far-away country
Sunday-school, show themselves. She drew the
line at stealing horses, and wouldn’t skip. Then
the gaoler returns with a reprieve—a commuta-
tion to seven years in N.S. Wales. Shortly after-
wards her lover interviews her, bringing a rope
that would hang a rhinoceros. His persuasions
effect what her father's were unable, and she con-
sents to fly. He goes outside, shoots the rope over
the wall, as she appears to prefer that mode of
escape to the open door. Just when she is going
to mount there is a fusillade of small arms and
Will, staggers into the cell, curls himself up at her
feet, forgives all persons for the trouble they’ve
given him in life, and dies to thejlow, melodious
wail of the piccolo.
We must defer to some other time poor
Maggie’s experiences among the pioneers of N. S.
Wales culture. The fact is, we didn’t wait for
them. We felt that those experiences might call
up reminiscences of our own, which it is our study
to cover with a veil of the densest oblivion. At
that time—according to the official report of one
our early Governors—society in this sunny land
was about equally divided between those who
were sent out and those who should have been.
Taken altogether, we have spent many worse
hours than in listening to the trials and triumphs
of Margaret Catchpole. There were a few songs
—one by a red-headed outlaw, who expressed his
views in adialectof abnormal incomprehensibility,
and was noisily encored. Another by a young lady
who solicited our attention to the fact that—
“ By the droop of my eye,
You can tell I am shy;
Is there any harm in that ? ”
We were in a good position for observing the
“ droop ” to which she referred, and can honestly
say that, to our mind, “shyness” was about the
last thing it suggested.
The London Jeweller.
London, September 1,1883.
“ The progress and success which it is possible
for a commercial enterprise to reach, is shown
very forcibly by a descriptive account which the
American Waltham Watch Company are now
issuing to the English watch trade, and we under-
stand that any jewellers desirous of distributing
these leaflets in their neighbourhood with the
view of promoting business* ohn have a supply on
application to the offices of the Company at
Holborn-circus. The buildings at Waltham, it is
stated, cover an area of 48,374 feet, the frontage
on the street is 754 feet, length of main building
846 feet, aggregate length of benches 3'87 miles,
length of shafting 3'93 miles. These figures speak
eloquently of the present position of the enter-
prise, but the success and increasing sale of
the Waltham watch is very substantially proved
by the statement that it took 23 years to make
the first million watches, six years to make the
second’million, and it is estimated that the third
million will be produced in about two years. It
would seem from this that every buyer of a
Waltham watch speaks well of it, and induces his
friends also to purchase, and they again do the
same, until the rate of increase becomes so for-
midable that it is difficult to comprehend what
will be the result a few years hence. But progress
like that shown in the leaflet referred to
proves not only the quality of the watch sold, but
also how well the Waltham Company must be
managed: for the best article will not force its
way in the world unless it is assisted by good
business capacity and generalship.
“ What is it ?” The people all wonder and stare.
“ What is it?” It puzzles us, they all declare.
“ What is it ?” Stuck in the midst of a bell.
“ What is it ?” Watch, and the hoardings will tell.
The Leichhardt ratepayers have made one
or two charges at the last election—notably, re-
jecting W. C. Pritchard. It will take the rate-
payers about a year to learn that they’ve lost a
man who did everything for Leichhardt, and who
never undertook a selfish bit of municipal work
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
That Husband of Mine is three times the man
he was before he began using “Wells’ Health
Kenewer.” Druggist*. Moses. Moss & Co., Sydney
Genera) Agents.
Jf


PEPPER AMD SALT.
THE APPOINTED TIME.
LA Soliloquy iiy a Southern Legislator.]
I cannot sleep a wink at night,
’Tis vain to go to bed—
From right to left and left to right
I toss my fevered head;
A horrid thought burns in my brain,
It puts me in a shiver—
Oh, when will she be round again,
And bring that horsewlii} with her?
A 3 like as not this fearsome foe
Will “ fix ” me in the street,
In some dark, ugly comer, so
I cannot well retreat;
MotMnks, I almost hear her cry,
And feel her angry bl*ws
The heavy handle in my eye,
And thong across my nose.
Or, maybe, in her ruthless search
For some revenge that’s rare,
She’ll “ cop ” me as I sit in church,
Engaged in silent prayer.
To whack me then, I must confess,
Would give me much concern
But there, ’tis idle, quite, to guess
What hour she will return.
* * *
It is rumoured that, for the sake of con-
venience to his constituents, a certain hon. mem-
ber is about to hang a shingle on his office dooi
with the following notice chalked upon it:—
“Hours of business—lo a.m. till 11, for consulta-
tion with fathers of families touching the procur-
ing of lucrative and respectable Government
billets for their sons. 11 till 12, at liberty to drink
success to the *aid sons at the expense of their
fathers. 12 till 1, interviewing and advising
squatters and others who wish to make desirable
land-grabs of pastoral, mineral, and other leases
in the cheapest and most expeditious manner
possible. 1 till 2, dinner with the wealthiest ol
clients—he pays. 2 till 3, explaining the certain
route which projected railroads are to follow, and
pointing out the different portions of land which
should be at once bought up before the Govern-
ment plans are made public. 3 till 4, economising
my client’s time by selecting such articles ol
jewellery, etc., as I would prefer being presented
with by my grateful friends and admirers. 4 till
5, arranging to secure Government contracts for
public works, stores, etc. 5 till 7, tea with my
successful constituents, and then to the House (if
sitting) to work the oracle. Terms cash. God
save the Queen 1”
* • •
THE VICTORIAN GUNBOATS.
With a fearful, fiery fervour did Victoria's bosom
beat,
And she longed to comfort Gladstone in hie
woes,
So she made a modest offer of her new “mosquito
fleet”
To help him in disposing of his fc es.
For such a noble offer it was, surely, only meet
That a fellow should be thankful, you’d suppose.
Tiddle-e-um.
But this gruff and grumpy Gladdy is confoundedly
obtuse—
To the merits of these gunboats he was blind;
He didn’t seem to deem that they would be of any
use,
And he answered In a manner most unkind—
(Oh, was’t he just greeted with a torrent of abuse I)
That this noble jingo offer was “ declined.”
Tiddle-e-um.
* * *
A job was put upon a worthy clergyman
a few Sundays ago. He received a letter, unsigned,
but enclosing a £1 note, urging him to pray for a
good harvest, and soliciting special supplication
for his unknown correspondent. The good man
duly and publicly prayed as per order, and gave
the anonymous but generous letter - writer a
specially fervent shove along towards the Throne
of Grace. He was a trifle annoyed to learn, a few
weeks later, that the correspondent was a heathen
publican who had only taken (id. during an entire
day and wanted his harvest improved. The
clergyman threatens to pray back all he petitioned
for, but the publican only chuckles. He says that
the very first Monday after the parson prayed for
his business, a bushman from the baca-blocks
dropped in with a cheque for £175, and knocked it
down in a fortnight. He offers the parson a per
cantage now on the cheque of every bushman he
will pray into his bar.
* * *
Do you know what the latest invention is?
Well, if you don’t, it is a lamp for examining the
mouth and throat. Now, do you know what we
think should be invented next? We will tell you
—a mud-dredge for the mouths of members of
Parliament.
* * 9
It was in a certain city down South that Sir
Jamseejee Kumjubbledehoy, the world-renowned
Oriental doctor and his pretty wife arrived, and
engaged a suite of rooms from the white trash
who kept the principal hotel. And it came to pass
that divers of the sons of Belial who held up the
front and the posts of that bar for their living
were sore smitten by the beauty of the wife of
Sir Jamseejee Kumjubbledehoy, and taking coun-
sel amongst themselves they decided to work the
oracle. So at 9p.m., a horseman rode up and said
‘ Lo! my wife is ill of the fever, come and see her,
and great will be thy gains.” Then the great medi
cine man was seated on a horse, taken out in the
trackless ibush about twelve miles, and then, in
crossing a stream, his guide quietly gave him the
slip and returned to town. The doctor remained
wandering about the wilderness till daylight-
Meantime, the sons of Belial made great love to
his wife; but she being as prudent as Sarah and as
chaste as Lucrece, hoisted a deaf ear to all their
flatteries. So it came to pass that those who went
seeking for wool oameback shorn, and were mighty
glad to hand over many shekels to turn away the
wrath of Sir Jaineseejee Kumjubbledehoy.
* * *
ARCADIANS BOTH.
To rabid Mac. says wild O’Connor ;
“ You’ve been and much aspersed me honour.”
To wild O’Connor says rabid Mac.:
“ Tour what ?—who ever heard such crack ?”
LEGEND OF A LANDLADY.
There was a landlady who kept
A hash-house in the street of Bligh,
Since then long in her tomb she’s slept—
For even landladies must die.
Coin made she like a minting-mill—
She knew her way about, this dame—
The world her oys ( er was, until
A batch of Rum reportei s came.
Down at the board they sat with glee,
With gorgon glee and goblin grin;
Their monster mouths with terror she
Did see the dry-hash vanish in.
She saw them gnash their iron teeth,
She saw them swing their mighty jaws—
The upper lip on that beneath
Working without a breath or pause.
Between each course they raised no hand
To stop—except, indeed, to toss
For who should drain the cruet-stand,
And who should polish off the sauce.
Then brandishing aloft their knives
They cried “Now roll us out the rum,
Or die—unless the rum arrives 1”
And she was as a dungeon dumb,
For she was dead; her tongue was tied,
What’s on her gravestone you can guess;
Her name and age, and this: “ She died
Of trying to support the Press.”
OLD STORIES RE-TOLD.
A lion, a fox, and an ass, held a “convention,” and agreed to go hunting together. A
working bullock observed them coming his way through a gap in the fence, but, beyond
thinking it odd that the donkey should be seen in such company, made no personal re-
mark at which any of them could take offence, and went on ruminating. Then the
crafty fox stole up and engaged him in conversation, while the lion crept up behind,
sprang upon the foolish beast’s neck, tore him to pieces, and asked the fox to divide
the booty. The fox chawed off the tail, passed it to the ass, then removed the [?]ead,
dumped it in front of the lion, and sat down to the remainder himself with a super-
cilious smile. So the lion up with his off fore-paw, knocked the fox into a fit, and
cynically asked the ass to divide the plunder. The donkey, thereupon, threw the half
picked tail to the lion, and sat contentedly down to the portion left by the unhappy
fox. The king, amazed at being put upon by an ass. sprang at him, but the donkey
had his eye-balls skinned, and planted one of his hoofs at the bifurcation of the
monarch’s nostrils, while with the other he caught him over the dexter superorbital
artery, and shifted his crown all on one side. He then sat down, finished the whole
bullock, had a nice roll, and remarked with a laugh, “ Dunno what it might a’ been in
the old times, but to get along in the world now, 'specially this side o’ the line, there’s
nothin’ like bein’ a well, an ass.
WHO'S AFRAID ?
“Mr. Addison : No corroborative evidence
has been called by the complainant, and a
thoroughly independent witness has testified that
the language in the information was not used.
The case is therefore dismissed with one guinea
costs.”
We hit a man, the other day
(Perhaps we were in error)
Because he had the “ cheek ” to say
This was the “ reign of terror;”
That Mac., on “ honesty ” quite drunk,
An epoch had set up of Funk.
He said—and put it round the town—
What not the soonest mended it,
That it were droll if Billy Brown
That scene could have invented it.
He said old pals some parties were,
And indignation filled him—
He said that he was game to swear....
But thon, of couise, we killed him.
[Owing to the pr jssure on ou’ space, no further
intimation (beyond that it is in our back-yard) can
be afforded to the relatives of the deceased. —
Ed. B.]
*. * *
Downing-street now explains that our deah
Duke of Edinburgh has been appointed to the com-
mand of the Channel Squadron simply because it
is thought that the terror inspu*od in an enemy’s
bi east by A If s flddliffg would be gi'eater than that
of all the guns in the British Navy put together.
Some competent judges even go so far as to assert
that Alt’s Stradivarius Is even worse than the
Chinaie stink-pot; and aa he only draws £25,0G0
lOT hi i fiddling, it looks c_s if E aglaud holds quite a
licit t l ing in His Royal highness.
• ■ •
Messrs. Booth and Glover have, theoreti-
cally, at any rate, been particularly successful in
pushing the “water trade” in Tasmania, four
thousand disciples having sported the “ bit of
blue.” Nor should this be a matter for surprise;
our only wonder is that the whole population of
the “ tight little island ” didn’t adopt the teetotal
principles, after the high-class examples that were
offered them. The Premier, and his son and
daughter, we are told, decorated their garments
with the cerulean ribbon, and this surely should
have been good enough to convert the most con-
firmed “soaker;” but when, on the top of that,
the gladsome intelligence reaches us that the
bishop and clean have forsworn rum for ever, we
stand amazed at the thought of any thirsty Tas-
manians still bowing the knee to Bacchus. Perhaps
they console themselves with the reflection that
there’s a certain amount of inconsistency about a
bishop and dean “swearing off,” the while that
they are strenuously “ labouring in the vineyard;”
and really, you know, looked at from a religious
point of view, this is certainly a little matter which
should lnto. In the meantime, let us
sins' a little temperance hymn:—
THE BISHOP AND THE DEAN.
Oh! ye who love your glasses
(Or the stuff you pour therein)—
Men and women, boys and lasses,
All, in fact, ivho soak in sin—
Let your habit so perverted
Join the things which once have been—
Go at ODce and be converted
Like the bishop and the dean.
Flee away from all temptation
(For the path to h is smooth),
And get draughts of consolation
From this nice, teetotal Booth ;
You’ll find satisfaction ample
In the knowledge, so serene,
That you’ve followed the example
Of a bishop and a dean.
Let your love for loathsome liquor
Turn to fiercely burning hate,
Then you’ll surely land the quicker
In the happy “ future state;”
Worldly trouble must be shorter
(You’ll be poisoned off, we mean)
If you keep on drinking water,
Like the bishop and the dean.
* * *
Curious this. When England declared war
against the Dutch, in 1605-a long time before the
ancestors of some of our aristocraev could count
4 h certainty on two meals a day—the Dutch
las ied a proclamation announcing the amount of
n omper.se which would be awarded to soldierj
unded in the service of their country. For the
c s of a foot they gave forty pounds. This ide a
ttjuld never do for us, if we were invaded, if
payment .vere made according to size, and some
of our gallant Volunteers lost their feet, it would
ruin us to recompense them. And suppose the
martial Giraffe of Mudgee happened to be lost in
an engagement, how would we do then?
should either have to owe for him or let the
invaders carry fire and sword into our pantri e «
without a murmur. And look at the pickle we
should be in if several of our members of Parlia
ment fell lighting in the van. We should either
have to do without a Parliament, or get more
wood and make others. On the whole, we think
it is cheaper for the country to let them flght in
the House. u
* * *
There are conjurors and oon jurors. We tra.
veiled with a con juror once ourselves. His real name
was Obadiah Smith, but he called himself Signor
Silverini. This was in Queensland; and we believe
at that time there was only one person ] e « 9
trusted in that flourishing colony than the Signor
That was-ourse'ves. It was after unsuccessfully
editing, for many dreary months, a boundary,
rider's hut, that we met him. By that time we had
got “aweary” of boundary-riding, and were p re .
paring to leave, when, in the gloaming, one day
Signor Silverini appeared. He was outside a horsJ
of sinister aspect, and carried his paraphernalia—
three tin cups and a set Of brazen balls—in a
blanket on his saddle-bow. He was dark and sal.
low ; and, taking him for a bushranger, we wel-
comed him with avidity. “ Sit down in the humble
hut,” we cried, “and tell us stirring stories of the
mail coaches you have robbed ; of the stations
you have stuck up ; of the troopers you have
slain.” Ho came in and sat moodily down. “p m
not a bushranger,” said he ; “I wish to bloomin,
thunder I was ! How far on to Clermont ?” “Nine
miles.” “Then I’ll stop here. Got anythingt 0
eat ?” We pointed to a venerable piece of smoked
jumbuck. “Is that all?” We nodded. “Then,” said
he, calmly, “ I’ll take a wisp of hay and a snake.’’
He was a man so completely enshrouded in gloom
that we took to him directly; and the next day he
borrowed £2 from us and appointed us his agent.
So, mounting an instalment of glue on crutches*
that we possessed, we rode forth with him and
fearlessly joined the profession. He had a bundle
of execrable handbills, with a little woodcut in the
centre purporting to be a mystic group, but, in
reality, resembling a cancer. These we used to
distribute in the bars of the hotels, where tha
Signor would show small tricks for refreshments;
and, subsequently, would perform in the dining-
room of any hostelrie that was available. We
have seen some bad conjurors in our time, but
even “Dr. Lynn” was a perfect Maskelyne and
Cooke to the Signor. He would put a marble
under a tin pot, and, crying “Hi 1 presto ! ” an-
nounce that it would “ pass ’’—which it hardly
ever did. But the most spectral part of the enter-
tainment was when, drawing out a red cotton
handkerchief, he would say, “Could any gentle-
man present oblige me with the loan of half-o-
crown ?” No gentleman present ever did, to our
knowledge, the request being invariably treated
with contumely. His opening speech was as fol-
lows: “Ladi.h and (hie) gentlemens,—Only as fur
back as the middle (hie) hages had I pursued the
practice of the hart of which I am now the ex-
ponent, I should without a (hie) doubt have been
ezzyeuted ashamagishon.” And then he could
commence to feebly juggle. When more than
usually overcome by rum, and unable to find “the
haisn of spadesh,” he would say, “ I win now
esshay a comic shong.” We remember one verse-
“ Her name was Everiiner,
She quarrelled with her feller,
And he banged her on the kisser.
With his gingham umbereller.”
These vocal efforts were invariably received with
derision, and occasionally with indignation that
took the form of deftly-aimed missiles. Fre-
quently, when the audience got very weary of the
Signor, they would bundle him over into a corner,
and get up an improvised ball. We took the money
when anybody would pay any; but were not par-
ticular to coins. The promise of a drink, a brass
collar-stud, a pair of socks, or a shoe-horn would,
in most cases, enable any persevering admirer of
the mysterious to “ push in.” We edited that
conjuror until he died. The cause of his death
was, we confidently believe, the shock upon our
informing him that we had taken 15s. And here
endeth our first (and last) conjuror.
* * *
The other day an Orange parson—a new
chum-started in a buggy to marry a couple eight
miles or so off. When he had travelled for about
six hours and never reached the place, he began to
think something was wrong. But still he perse-
vered 1 After dragging the horse on by the head
for another mile, he fetched up at a house at
which some men were lounging on the verandah
On getting out, he heard sounds of a concertina.
“Where are they?” he enquired of a bearded
stockman, who was playing euchre with a dirty
pack of cards. “ Where’s who ? ” asked the stock-
man. “D’ye want Conkey Jim, or the Long
Handled Shovel?” “I have no use for a shovel,
my good man,” said the parson; “but seek the
young couple who are about to be united in the
bonds.” “‘Couple!’ ‘bonds!’ Here Bill,”*
shouted the stockman, “ come out here. Here’s a
cove in a long black banger that’s got ’em bad.’,
To the parson; “Never you mind, sonny, I’Jj
shout. It was only when three or four men
wanted to dance with him, and a buxom
waitress jugged him in the ribs with her
elbow, that he concluded he’d made a mis-
take. He had been travelling round in a
circle, and struck a shanty at the four mile.
Meanwhile, at the house where he was due there
were “ructions o’.” Tired of waiting, the groom
began to “ refresh,” and after hammering the best
man, “ landed ” the expectant bride. Then the
brother of the bride “ bashed ” the groom, and
was in his turn “ slogged ” by the groom’s father,
A tradesman who was accused of “carrying on’*
with the groom suffered facial laceration at the
hands of the bride’s mother, and the day was
finished by one half of the guests barricading the
house, while the other half bombarded it with
rocks. When, at leDgth, the parson did arrive, he
found desolation, and received a brick. He is
now willing to accept a call elsewhere on reason-
able terms.


Andrew Lang says that an English Protes-
tant divine, finding himself in the Ojibbeway or
the Mahommedan Paradise would consider him-
self in hell. We doubt part of that statement
muchly. Because we know full many a good old
divine who, If he suddenly found himself reclining
on a sweet nyctanthes bod beneath a cool grove of
sacred palms, with gazelle-eyed houris fanning his
ears and tickling his apple-dumpling chin with
their henna-dyed flnger-tipa, would swear he had
tumbled into honey instead of hell; but we don’t
think an Ojib. or a Mohammedan would care to
remain in a Protestant Paradise any longer than
a certain distinguished orator would care to stay
in a room with an insulted lady and 2ft. 6in. of a
horsewhip.
* * *
At the last meeting of the Wesleyan Con-
fence, the dryness of the debates naturally led to
the subject of drought. We have not space to re-
cord the debate which followed, and we are too
wary to fall into the hands of Hew-Agag-To-
Pieces Picton, by discussing the question of
prayers for rain. At a time, however, when it’s
everything to us that the British public should not
be left to the dull misrepresentations of our re-
sources by garrulous absentees, we have thought
it our duty to give a precis o f the resolutions ar-
rived at by the Conference, tnd an expression of
our gratitude for the copious downpour (when it
comes) following their far-seeing and iniluential
representations to tho Head Office of the Universe-
Briefly, then, the resolutions amounted to this:
“ We, the undersigned clergymen of the Wesleyan
Church of Australia, having been ‘ called ’ in early
youth from the vain and carnal pursuit of earthly
labours, and having with all zeal and commend-
able promptitude forsworn the hod, the saw, the
spade, and other works of the evil one, and elected
to face the trials of this transitory life from the
sure and godly entrenchment of a white
neck-tie and black cloth suit, and the
time-honoured collection box, hereby resolve
(1) That the bringing of rain-clouds necessitates
a change in the direction of the wind, and as,
moreover, the tonnage of incoming sailing vessels
exceeds by several thousand tons that of the out-
going, it is desirable that the Supreme Huier of the
universe avail himself of tho present disturbed
state of the solar system, as instanced by novel
sunsets, Sunda eruptions, peculiar sunspots, and
general disturbances of the magnetic forces of the
universe, toco alter the direction of the wind as to
bring about, not exactly a deluge, but a thoroughly
good soaliog rain on districts now parched—the
boundariss of which the Supreme Kuier may
as certain from tho weather charts of the S M.
Herald. (8) That the necessary lobbying, to get
this resolution attended to, be started by a general
humiliation and collection for foreign missions in
all our churches on Sunday, February 17th. (3)
That the time is now opportune for a general
revision of the laws of nature, to bring them more
in accord with the views of this Conference and
the pastoral interests of N.S.W.
Maitland is the home of music—weird,
original music, that enters the soul like hoop iron.
It is the birthplace of the fog-horn fugue aud the
ice-cream fantasia. Many a morning, when the
dew-drops silvered the area-railing, have we heard
the man pass with the cart, playing that fantasia,
and risen up to throw a bouquet—or a boot—at
him. The president of the Philharmonic Society
is the gloriouj Apollo up there. He was address-
ing a meeting the other night, and alluded to his
tom-tom troupe as a “ first-class surgical society.”
The local paper says that he “ cleverly excused the
mistake by interjecting * well, surgical or musical,
is all the same; it cuts both ways 1’” We should
think so. And “ cleverly ?” Well, yes-olevorly
because truly—
Too truly does it “ cut both ways
We say it in good part;
It fB cuts "—we thank him for the phrase
B®th ear and heart.
t ■ ■
Pity the poor sugar-plauters! They ere
in a dreadful state of fright about the “ hostile
demeanour ” of the Kanakas. The local paper
says that, the other day, the house of a Mackay
planter was “surrounded by a baud of Kauakas
who wero armed with cane-knives and yelled like
furies.” The people of the house had only six-
shooters and revolving-rifles with which to defend
themselves. These were, of course, of no avail
against the yells which scared a pet c-\t into a
cream-pan and caused the sudden disappeaiance
of a two-year-old infant. We are happy to be able
to state, however, that he was subsequently dis-
covered in a sugar-c isk. If the planters are not
protected against this sort of thing, it will soon be
a poor time for rum poisoners and lambors-dowu.
How. “The Bulletin” Pictures are Produced.
We are frequently asked the question, “ How are The Bulletin pictures produced?” Bor a long time we were resolved to let the
secret die and be buried with us ; but we have decided at last to gratify a curiosity, which, doubtless, proceeds from a spirit of
friendly interest in our enterprise, and to lay our secret bare.
No. I.—First, our artist sits him down for a season
of pious meditation, and to calmly wait for an in-
spiration—sometimes he has to wait for days.
No. 2.—At such times, the
editor looks in frequently to
offer a suggestion, or a bun.
No. 3.—The inspiration having come
at last, the artist runs frantically in to
notify the editor, to whom he gives a
ground-plan of the new-born joke.
No. 4.—The editor exclaims “ Devilish
funny!” and rushes madly out into the
street to get a stone.
No. s.—lf he can’t find one, he looks about
for a brick—but he generally finds a stone.
No. 6.—This, he hands over to the artist,
who traces his design upon it with a splinter
dipped in methylated shoe-blacking. The
drawing then proceeds under the super-
vision of the editor, who has an eye for the
libellous in art.
No. 7. —The drawing at last
completed upon the stone, ltis
well rubbed with a bacon-rind,
and passed on to the “Biter”
who is kept chained in the cel-
lar. By a secret process, known
only to himself he “ bites ” away
all that portion of the stone not
drawn upon, leaving only the
lines standing in high relief.
No. B.—The “ Dabber,” a gentleman who
is sworn to secresy, and is given unstinted
access to the ink-barrel, now has his
innings. He dabs the stone indiscrimin-
ately (a process which requires great
delicacy of touch), and sends it to press
with his blessing.
No. 9.— White paper is next brought in contact with the surface of the “block,” and a heavy pressure is brought to bear
upon it —sometimes the full strength of the entire establishment is called into action.
No. 10.—When the white paper
is lifteu from the block, an im-
pression of the engraving (more or
less exact) is seen upon it, to de-
light the eyes and improve the
morals of millions of readers.


BRIEF MENTION.
Au ’igh calling.—A wink.
Election gifts: Egg-flipp.
The Tee-totaller s whine —Water.
The worst kind of ease: Dis-ease.
A perplexing “if” —Dibb’s Tar-iff.
A pick-me-up —A tram cow-catcher.
An A.B.C. Guide.—The infant school-
mistress.
The intermittent tricks of our gas-light are,
of course, occasioned by gas-tric fever.
Booth, the temperance advocate, says he
is very glad Paul told Timothy to take a little wine
for his stomach’s sake. No doubt Timothy was
glad also. But then Booth objects to the particular
word “take.” He says the true reading is “use.”
This doesn’t seem to be worth lighting about.
Come out, and we’ll “ me ” a little wine.
East Sydney. The State of the Poles.
“ Wollombi Joe ” is reported to have said
that he don’t care about reading full reports of
t,<e news, but is contented with a “ponnyrusal of
the epitoam.”
Father Woods is a pleasant writer and a
vigorous. His pluck in calling the mosquito "the
bloody mosquito ” deserves recognition. We
wonder, though, that Granny passed the phrase.
A night-school for young men was started
in Carcoar, lately. Only four attended. These
are all the young men in Carcoar who want cul-
ture. Whisky is wnat the rest want chiefly.
A Queanbeyan man writes to say that he
saw a perfect stream of meteors just before the
earthquake rumble down there on Thursday last.
But he omits to say where ho threw the empty
bottle.
At Turaut. A young man was going
through the backyard of a hotel, and fell into a
Jit. Let’s see:—
To us it seems a thing quite plain
The cause of this to touch;
Jle had—that bald old pun again!—
Been taking, sirs, Tumut-ch.
Another renegade. John Hansaker
M’Elhone is now a firm believer in Protection.
Especially when he knows there’s a horsewhip
outside, with a determined woman at the business
end of it.
Strange how travel improves the mind.
The Chinese in Hong Kong consider it a matter of
complaint that more of them are not made Jus-
tices of the Peace. You never see a Chinaman out
here craving for such a distinction.
Hosannah! The British and Foreign Bible
Society recently sent us out another mission-
ary—the Rev. Henry T. Robjohn. We hope they
will not forget to send out the Kev. Demijohn as
usual. Conversion is very slow without him,
A correspondent sends us a clipping con-
cerning “ character-reading ” in connection with
tobacco. He asks us if we believe in it. Weshould
smile. When a man asks you for a pipeful of
tobacco, and you hand him your pouch or a plug,
and he forgets to return it, you can read his
character in a flash of lightning. You know at
once that he is either a nigger-minstrel or a bush-
missionary.
TO THE COLONIAL ARCHITECT.
Your Post-office reliefs are not
The very highest art, great chief;
But smashing the whole blessed lot—
This is, indeed, a grand relief!
A correspondent to a country paper wants
to know how to prevent boots and shoes from
squeaking on entering church. Take them off
before you go in. You will then have them ready
to knock down the man who comes round with the
collection-plate.
Two lightning-dodgers in England have
just received a 12-months stretch each for divulg-
ing the contents of racing telegrams. Such a
thing never happens here. We mean the impri-
sonment. But people used to howl occasionally, in
bygone days, about some “ leakage.”
According to a Melbourne paper, an infant
aged six months was brought befare a suburban
Bench, “on a charge of being neglected.” It got
off with a light sentence, though we’re pleased to
say the mother was ordered to pay ss. a week for
seven years towards the child's support.
This being Leap Year, no fewer than four
young gentlemen resident in a populous Northern
district have received written pioposals from
young ladies anxious to run in double harness.
Each lady, however, is rather undesirably handi-
capped with cradle fruit already, and the delicate
proposals have taken the form of affiliation
notices.
The very latest dodge to skip a seat in the
jury-box now is to tie an ostentatious-looking
piece of blue ribbon in your button-hole, and
assume the look of a dyspeptic bandicoot crossed
in love. In the twinkliDg of a duck’s thumb, the
welcome word “Challenge” comes from the pri-
soner’s end, and off you go on your way, re-
joicing.
Henry Clegg, the father of the girls on
whose evidence Pierce was recently flogged for
indecent exposure, has just been sent up to spend
a month at Reid’s Hotel '•’or a like offence. He
admitted being 71 years of age, and very drunk
when arrested. Sometimes being drunk scores one
to the prisoner, and at other times it doesn’t.
Then the ‘ cat ” scores.
The ladies who are now to stand their trial
for killing an infant betrayed a singular want of
tact. There may, of course, be some difference of
opinion as to the propriety of killing a baby, but
there can be none whatever with regard to keep-
ing it in a cupboard for two days this hot weather.
Nothing will keep now long. VVeeven find it hard
work to keep our promises.
Mr.Elliott(to Mr. W. C. Brown): “Do you
know anyone like Mr M’Elhone ? ” Witness (hesi-
tatingly): “Yes, several.”
What! like him many you have known!
This imagery, sooth is sad!
Known many like Jack M’Elhone!
What lovely dreams you must have had.
Amongstotherlashioaable intelligence, we
learn that the basses of the Harmy in a certain
country town are known as “ Jack Hatfield alias
Happy Jack No. 2, Tom the Snob, Broken-nose
Jim, Mick the Beauty, Green, long Gus. the coal-
heaver, Ike the ganger, and Bill Smith.” The en-
lightened journal which furnishes this valuab e
information also announces that “Mr Shepherd,
the celebrated piano-tuner, is in town.” This
ad. for Shepherd should be sheep at any price !
The organ of the Victorian Vitriolers
sneers at a late shivooheldin Castlemaine, because
so little hard drink was consumed there. It was,
indeed, a mean concern. No heads were broken,
and that night the gaol was as good as empty. Wo
agree with the Licensed Lusher that there is a
very poor public spirit in Castlemaine. Or, should
we say public-house spirit?
The was a Gundagai J.P.,
Who’d not let grog alone,
So, b if! he fell right off his horse
And broke his collar-bone!
Well, now the beaks have stopped his grog
For twelve months (we opine);
But as the man is sure to groan,
They cannot stop his whine I
A young man who served in a store near
Brisbane is dead. Acetic acid by mistake.
He lived his life in lowly ways,
Serene and placid,
But now upon a harp he plays
In Kingdom-come—
Acetic acid
Mistook for rum 1
Oa second thoughts, we side with those
who object to the Property-tax. It is too indefln-
ate. Being in a desperate mood the other night-
consequent upon drinking a bottle of non-intoxi-
cating beer, by mistake—we read right through a
dinner oration delivered by Dan O’Connor lately.
Of course we had the nightmare. And now, we
suppose, they will want to tax us under the Stock
Act.
James M’Grath, of Melbourne, went forth
the other Saturday night, and “ attempted to pass
several cheques on shopkeepers," and “ Constable
Callander’s attention was drawn to the
The crafty Callander entertained grave doubts as
to the financial value of the M’Grathian signature,
so, realising the impossibility of proving his sus-
picions at such an unfortunate hour, he deter-
mined on a bold stroke, and ran in M’Grath on the
good all-round charge of “ insulting behaviour.”
This was certainly rough upon the Irish gentle-
man ; and yet the subsequent discovery that the
cheques were worthless has proved the force of
Constable Callander’s action—for, if M’Grath’s
artifices were not “ insulting ” at the time, they
were undoubtedly rued afterwards.


Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 27tb February, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to .which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Construction of an Iron Screw
Tug Steamer
Manufacture and Erection of 7
Cast Iron Water Tanks for
Railway Water Supply pur-
poses
Erection of Police Buildings,
Cowra
Erection of Wharf, Palmer’s Is-
land, Clarence River
Paving Post and Telegraph
Office and Court-house. Forbes
Additions, &c., Barracks, Middle
Head.
Bridge over Dingo Creek at Jet-
sell's Crossing, road Wingham
to Wherool Flat.
Contract 31m, road Fcrnmount
to the Grafton and Armidale
Road
Supply of 100 Screwjacks, Rail-
way Department
Construction of Trucking
Yards, Narramine Station
Supply of Cement, Harbours and
Rivers Department, 1884
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Ofliee, William-street
Tuesday,
4th March,
at 11 o’clock,
Construction ot' Tank and Hath
of Bathurst 0- W. Railway
Fencing, &c., Police Station,
Albury.
Additions, Alterations, &c.,
Police Station, Molong.
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Ar-
midale,
Road Coonabarabran to Mere-
goen, contract lM
Laying- on Water and Gas, and
Repairs, to Protestant Orphan
School, Parramatta
Repairs, Additions, &c , Court-
house, tamden
Erection of Cottage, Moss Vale,
Great Southern Railway
Bridge over Tilbuster Creek,
road Armidale to Rockdale
Erection of Pence, Sewage
Farm, Webb’s Grant, Botany
Supply of White Metal for
Rocky Point and Forest roads
Work in Main-street, Wallerj-
wang, (approach to Railway
Station) >•-=«mu
Redecking and Repairing Or-
phan School Creek Bridge on
Pyrmont Bridge-road, near
Camperdown
Supply of Centre Chains, Rail-
way Department
Tuesday,
11th March,
at 11 o’clock.
Completion of Works, Trial
Bay Prison
Construction of two Ferry
Steamers
Erection of Engine and Boiler
House, Albury Water Supply
Works
Additions to Quarters, Fairway
Leading- Light, Newcastle
Engine House, &c, Goulburn
Water Supply
Eng ne, House, &0., Wagga
Wagga Water Supply
Purchase of Muntz Metal, Fitz-
roy Dock
Additions Police Officer’s Quar-
ters, Dubbo
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Offices, Paddington
Construction of Breakwater,
&o„ Northern side of entrance
to Clarence River.
Drainage,&c. Boatman’s House,
Newcastle
Erection of Police Buildings,
Carcoar
Erection of Court House, In-
verell
Fencing Recreation Reserve,
Waterloo
Tuesday,
18th March,
at 11 o’clock.
Tuesday,
25th March,
at 11 o'clock.
Additions, &c., Courthouse,
Menindie
Laying on Gas, &c., Callen Park
Asylum
Tuesday,
Ist April,
at 11 o’clock.
Erection of Ladies’ Refreshment
Room, &0., Botanic Gardens
Additions to Court-house, Mer-
ri wa
Tuesday,
15th April,
at 11 o'clock.
Lease of Refresh meat-room at I
Werris Creek Railway Station I
Tuesday.
29th April,
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Kails.
10th February,
1885,
at 11 o’cloeb.
F. A. WRIGHT.
A Gospel Army gentleman has had the
confiding Parramatta people all round. He.cashed
sixteen cheques in two hours. He was onlv, we
believe, disappointed in one instance. l hat s
when he offered Fergy a £2O “stiff” in payment
for the Cumberland Times. The holy mau
declining to take it out in printers’ old papers,
"yehow back” literature, and hair oil, was not
able to effect a deal. Fergy had just banked all the
money taken for that issue—in a hollow tooth.
Friday’s papers contained some cheerful
items. Two or three murders, incest (2), a woman
crushed to death by stones, and several minor
trifles. Then we have a lady trying to horsewhip
a Member, aud the great oratorical effort or Han.
Of course we re sorry for the crimes, and all that,
but the silver lining to our cloud consists in getting
a good penn’orth. We are “full up” of a paper
with throe paves of Government announcements,
a par. about the weather, a leader on ring-harking,
and a cireus advt.
A gentleman signing himself a “ Corro-
spondont,” and who, writing from Richmond, says,
“we are getting quite civilliied,” complains that
the public-houses up his way are as “thick as law-
yers in H Judging from the style of his
communication, we can quite believe his story
about the publicans being thick up there ; and we
shouldn’t be surprised il our “corrosponaont s
“foghorn” were in a similar predicament. We
wonder how he learned that lawyers were thick in
hell. He must be an enterprising person. Ihe
nearest we ever got to hell is Rockhampton.
Charles Turner de Bizan sacked a chorus
mau at a week's notice, when the latter man of
song considered this peremptory, and carried his
woes to Majcroni. The great artist was sympa-
thetic, expressed a willingness to provide him with
a part, and requested a specimen of his abilities.
As the player proceeded, Majeroni’s face grew
black, and his general speeehlessness recalled his
best efforts in “ The Old Corporal.” Recovering
himself, he said “And you say Mister Turnare
give you a tveek notice? By San Lorenzo, if you
not play better than that for me, may I in Purga-
torio go if I would not give you a month! ’
At Narrabri there has been the usual row-
in the Council. “ Don’t you call me a liar!” cried
the town clerk; and then he left the chamber, and
was suspended—possibly until the Council has
decided whether he is a liar or not. The clerk
himself has evidently formed his opinion on the
subject. The Mayor charged him with sticking to
17 bob, and the clerk retorted that the Council had
£l5 of his money. What the Council want to know
now is that if the clerk be dismissed whether it
will be entitled to appropriate his money to pur-
chase a now town clerk with. If it cannot,
Narrabri will be pumpiess for another decade.
A gentleman of Tuscan origin sends us,
from Broughton C’-eek, some poetry which has a
Florentine smack. The hard has apparently got
it very badly, and the verse he sends bitterly
upbraids a lady who has evidently “slung” him
for the other blacksmith. He says that “ she's as
ugly and fat as if fed upon beer,” which is about
the only line of his communication fit for publi-
cation in anything but a religious paper. W« take
this opportunity of assuring the public that tins is
just the sort of thing we yearn for. We have a
yearning, too, in connection with the people who
send these items. That yearning is associated
largely with the sole.
What in the name of the bald-headed
Mother of the Chinese Empire does Alfred’s
“special correspondent,” who is now on the
wa'laby in the Bananaland, mean by the following
par. in a recent Nooze ?—“ To a man haunted by
creditors, Allora would be a perfect harbour of
refuge, as they would never think of looking for
him there. Messrs. Kennedy Bros, act as your
agents.” Does he mean to insinuate that Kennedy
Bros. k«ep an accommodation house for
absconding debtors ? Or are we to infer
that a creditor would rather let a debtor rip
than follow him to a place that was blasted by the
presence of the Even Nooze?
“All yees people as isn’t in this case, lave
the court,” said the Bench as a spicy case came up
for investigation in a Melbourne suburb. An old
tippler who was there to ex dain his misconduct
in another matter grabbed his hat and prepared to
obey the injunction. “Ye stay where ye are,”
yelled the bobby. The Bench saw that its mandate
was capable of misrepresentation, so, after an
intellectual struggle, the following amended
declaration was made ;—“ All yees people as isn’t
afore the court as bad characthers, g’out. This
next case isn't fit to be heerd by anybody but bad
eharacthors au' we’Jl not hear it till yees .is
cleared.” Cleared accordiugly.
The Rev. C. J. Byng preached at Fitzroy,
lately. It was about the Seraphim. That means
a lot of seraphs. A good many didn’t know righf,
what seraphs were. A good many thought them
something in the barmaid style, only en deshabille,
that sat up aloft on luminous d’oyleys. All, how-
ever, hoped to see them sometime, to toot a while
with them, and play about the d’oyleys. But
Byng says you can’t. “If you were suddenly
brought iu sight of one of them, the most violent
earthquake or volcanic eruption would not appear
so terrilSe.” There it is. Another great induce-;
meat to die is taken away. What’s the use of
dying, anyhow ? There’s plenty of earthquake
and volcanic eruption where we are.
The Manning River Times “reprints by
request” some verses by “Bushman,” on “The
Evils of Backbiting.” Here is the first verse: -
“ Come listen, all you backbiters
And you mischief-making crew,
If I had my will of you
On your tongue I’ll put a screw.”
We expect they were reprinted by “Bushman’s”
request, and
We also think that “ Bushman ”
(This makes the thing more sad)
Has got a little shoe-shop,
And gives a little “ad.”
The Salvation Army walked in procession
lately down in Prahran, and leading members were
brought up to court to answer for the breach of
by-laws. Several points in the case give handles,
hut we ll let them stick there and come down to the
evidence of Senior-Constable O’Connell. “ The
street was66ft. wide, $ er worships. The purcession
was formed seven deep, and took up nearly the
whole width.” That gave about nine feet to each
man. it is cheering to note that the distance
between the men was such a good wholesome one.
They could just touch each other with a long pole.
Considering the past character of most of them,
this distance was very prudently determined on.
It left room for the fresh air to circulate between
the seif-awowed sinners.
Burgess had got three months in Mel-
bourne gaol for breaking things up country, and
more than a month of his time was up lavt week,
but he was full of the place, and determined to
sco it when a chance offered. Tne turnkey set
him and a few others to unload bluestone metal
outside the wall, some days ago. That was the
chance, and burgess scooted. The turnkey
levelled his rifle, hut Burgess got “in line” with
some people in Swauston-street. The turnkey
feared to fire lest —. They’re looking for Bur-
gess now about t n wn. Great hokey, what an
es-apo the people in Swauston-street had I Not
the people in line with Burgess. Not at all. But
the people on the other 6ide of the street. Aud
the people iu bed in the top storeys. And the
people all about, all about!
Booth, the “ brewers’ bane,” is going it
like mad in the Melbourne Exhibition building.
‘ ‘ The blue ribbon,” he says. “ is the badge of tree-
dom ” Some people certainly think it's the sym-
bol of slavery, hut no matter, “ badge of freedom"
s minds better. And a verv artful way has the
Hold Booth of “getting at” such as may be nib-
bling at the blue bait. Says he :—“ To those who
imagine it may be infra dig. to wear the ‘little bit
of blue,’ he can assure them that it is now fashion-
able in England ; tint many of the nobility have
donned it, amongst others the Duchess of Suther-
land ” Now, that ought to fetch ’em, if anything
will Whatever the duchesses do ought to
be followed. Since they “took up” divorce,
it’s been wonderfully popular in Australia.
Softly and respectfully we remark—hallelujah !
Elizabeth MTvor looked over the rail at
Mr. Call in the Melbourne City Court, tho other
day, and said she didn’t do it. “Ye did,” said the
constable; “ye had taken summat and wor in-
sulting.” “Maylneverl” pleaded Elizabeth; • f
was only at the Temperance Hail, and was just a
trifle enthusiastic on my way home.” “Aisy,
now,” said tbe constable; “ye know ye had a
summat.” “Did you drink anything?” asked Mr.
Call, timidly. “Only a sup of vigorine, your wor-
ship. All the rest was enthusiasm.” “ Hut,” said
Mr. Call, “ enttiusiasm is the worst tipple going.
It has left children orphans, and wives widows,
and husbands without anybody to pull off their
boots at night. No end of mischief is worked by
it. and, when backed up with vigoriue, comes
mighty near a capital offence. However, I’ll give
you six hours, and take no more of it. Ta, ta,
Lizzie.”
The Hon. Thomas Bent has been telling
the people down South what he saw in India dur-
ing his long residence there. He says the poor are
wretchedly poor, are clothed badly, fed badly, and
thoroughly miserable. But the cause or causes of
this he is not sure about. Let us at the old Punjab
poet, working into the hymn a little point that he
died too soon to assimilate: —
He who made the parrot green,
And made the raven black,
His many hues the peacock gave,
Tho swan his snow-white back;
Gave Thomas eyes to see the rags
That hang on Indian men,
And eke a nose to smell the smell
Of ryots in their den.
But parrot green and peacock hued,
The swan and raven black,
Knew just as much why things are thus
As Bent who has come back.
Sir ’Enry's up on his heels again, and
proudly declares that in the event of England
being involved in war. N.S. Wales will do its
“dooty,” being both able and willing to assist the
mother country. Hurroo ! Lift-er hup again, old
man. Those “painted soldiers” of ours don’t
have the “shakes” so often now, except when
someone accidentally fires off a gun, and our in-
trepid “ hearts of oak’’can steam all the way to
the Heads without pelting junks of their livers at
tho fish as they turn their throats into casto'-oii
funnels, and drown their captain’s stern com-
mands with a unison chorus of “ Whoo-woo
Ooop! Heavah whooop! 00-00-00-oop! Oh my
poor—whoooop,” &e. Long live Henry Rex!
Where’s Murray Smith and his two little dingies
now ? Horace was right after all. It is meet, and
sweet to die for one’s Fatherland. Some of us,
however, would far rather live on her, and let
other patriots do all the dying.
Here’s a startling item of news from Bris-
bane :—“ The dead body of a man named Petersen
has bt en found near Georgetown. He appears to
have expired without a struggle. The deceased
seemed to have been unused to hard work. Fancy
a man being so “ unused to hard work ” that he
couldn’t bring himself to make a “ struggle,” even
on the important occasion of his decease. We
should like to have a portrait of Petersen.
By this man’s unworked appearance they were
very strangely struck ;
For they saw at once, quite plainly, that he’d
never drawn a truck.
And, moreover, it is possible (we put the case to
you)
That this pale and placid Petersen had never
drawn a “screw ” ;
He was “ stony ” (so we take it) at the moment of
his death,
When he thought—to be consistent—that he
wouldn’t draw his breath.
John O’Brien alias M‘Grath thought he
was doing it very neatly lately. Miss Welch
landed at the Queen’s Wharf, Melbourne, and her
box, put out on the landing, seemed to have some-
thing valuable within it. John judged so from the
exterior. In the bustle, he lugged the box over
to a cabman, and said “I’m a stranger here—just
come in : bring me and my box to a decent hotel.
I’m down from Geelong.” “All riirht, sir,” said
the cabby, and as he rolled along he m used: “Now,
that’s a fine-looking box, and my fare is notlafine-
looking man.” First trouble. " Now, he says he’s
just in from Geelong, but not a blessed boat has
arrived from there to-day.” Second trouble. Then,
aloud, “ Which hotel did you wish for, sir “ Oh,
a good, comfortable, hotel, and make haste!” “ All
right, sir. I’ll bring you to the very plaoe suits
you.” And cabby drove his fare straight to the
lock-up, and had him inside in a twinkle. John
got six months a few days after, but vows his plan
broke down in a place that no fellow could have
guessed beforehand.
The London correspondent of the Shroud
is, it seems, a kind of English De Blowitz. He is
hand and (perhaps) glove wPh the great. Not
content with proving that Parkes and Tennyson
are friends—the latter of whom, though, he ad-
mits is “a dreamy, absent-minded and almost blind
poet he tells us how he went to dine with a
squire in the country, at Christmas (the charitable
season !), and how his host said : “Look at that
voung lady going through the stile by the old oak
tree, yonder. Her whole life is spent in minister-
ing to the sick. You and 1 will he sitting down in
a tew minutes to our Christmas dinuer. She, I can
see, has left hers to take something to one of the
cottages across the moor.” The idea of the
Shroud’s correspondent leaving a dinner for any-
thing appeared to tickle the squire. The only
thing we ever knew a News reporter leave a
dmner, for, that reminds us, was another dinner.
And didn’t “the tables groan under the weight of
the good things provided by our worthy host,”
just, in the next issue!
For some real, good, honest, hard swearing
oommendus to Forbes. There was a row in a pub
there, the other day, between a lawyer and a
senior-oonstable, which ended in the policeman’s
being fined £2, or fourteen days. In his evidenoe,
the lawyer swore the trap was drunk, and that
officer brought another policeman to prove he
was not very much under the influence of liquor,
his articulation was not thick, his eyes did not look
excited, nor was his face flushed. The balance of
the evidence was, as a matter of fact, all on the
policeman’s side, and for the Bench to convict
under the circumstances points to a very signifi-
cant conclusion. The officer, according to his own
evidenoe, certainly received some slight provoca-
tion, for he alleged that he was addressed by Mr.
Whelan in these terms: “ You are a traitor and a
scoundrel,” “you would sell God Almighty and
your own father,” “you are only a policeman;”
he also said “ you are drunk,” which the constable
denied, and retorted that his accuser was drunk.
A column and a half of the local paper is taken up
with this sort of evidence. Tne trouble, however,
seems to have been not so much the language
(even if it were used) as that, after having the row
ia the hotel, Purcell went to the lock-up, got
another policeman, and jostled the complainant
and his friends. This is all denied; so there are
some “thumpers” going the rounds of Forbes,
somehow. Be that as it may, the decision of the
magistrates (three of them) establishes a precedent.
That is—it is safer to believe a lawyer than a police-
man.
Carcoar Mary was annoyed with some-
body in her district, recently, and under the head-
ing of “ Scandal-mongers,” this is how she lets him
know she is a bit put out:—
“ Breathe it forth gently,
Pamper it well
Let not the world know it comes
Steaming from hell—
Hide its enormity,
Shield it from harm,
Lest its deformity
Bring you alarm.
“ Be sure that you are not
Forgetful to say
It was but a rumour
You heard on the way—
But yield (sic) it with glittering
Fossils of art,
Lest you should be frittering [!!]
Some of its smart.” [lll]
It is a matter of congratulation to us that we have
always been on good terms with this charming
lady. After this exhibition of her power in philh-
pics, we shall conciliate her more than ever. We
will waft her, per Wright, Heaton aud Co., the
very first prize turnip that is brought round; and
no sooner does a mail forward us a sample cake ot
patent shaving-soap, or a flask of curious hair-on,
than we lay them at once at her feet. When we
see power, we respect it.
A man is coming down here from Queens-
land with a cow which he is going to exhibit. She
has four horns, and others forming. Greenhorns
we should call these—also his audience. Instead
of bringing a cow, he should have brought a
Christian from Queensland. This speculation
would pay, and set at rest a doubt that we have
down here.
“Living by his wits” is an expression ap-
plied to a man as a reproach, more especially by
people who would, in Dine cases out of ten, soon
starve on a similar means of livelihood. The other
day, in Melbourne, one Judge Noel spoke of a
“commission agent” as “a man who lives by his
wits.” The learned Justice, presumably, has con-
trived to exist on his luck—or his relations,
This is a solemn fact, for the Mount
Barker Courier tells the tale. A sweet maid of
60 summers, who has, until recently, neen a shin-
ing light amongst the Primitive Met iodists of
Moonta, S.A., has seceded to the Salvation Army
ranks, and can now kick higher »nd put a bigger
head on Satan than any other Hallelujah lass in
her regiment. Her late' pastor, hearing of this,
called round about tea time the other night to try
and yard her back to his own fold once more, and
during the course of his chat enquired “ What
can the Salvation Army give you tuat you did not
get at your own church?’’ “Nothing, kind sir,”
she said. “What new truths have you learned,
then?” asked the shepherd. “None at all, kind
sir,” she said. “ How, then, is your soul rendered
happier by the change, and why have you left
your old church ? ” Tnen the fair nonitent clasped
her hands together, did a flip-flap, and in an
ecstacy of happy recollections, cried “ Ob, Mr.
C —, I feel Be heavenly every time I hear the big
drum. ’ Then the duly qualified sky-pilot walked
sadly off, and filled his tank at the nearest foun-
tain.
Melbourne has been dropping a good
many tears over the unhappy story of a certaia
misguided cockatoo, that, wearied of domestic life,
flew away to the tower of a Fitzroy church, and
died an ignominious death. The bird, it seems,
became securely fastened to its holy resting place,
by the very chain which had, in happier times,
attached its leg to the perch in its forsaken home,
and thus for two long days did poor cocky sicken
in this exalted but saddening solitude. Under the
heading of “An Animated Scene,” the Herald
gave a really beautiful description of the bird’s
sufferings, explaining how, “ all through the
heavy wintry rains it remained an involuntary
captive, no one deeming it his duty to attempt to
free it. [The man who wouldn’t climb up a church
tower, in the wintry rains, to free a cockatoo,
must be a brute, indeed.—Ed. B.] At about six
o’clock, the excitement having reached its cul-
minating point, the requisite authority was given
for the bird to be snot. . . . Atter about a
dozen charges had been fired into it, the poor bird
fell from its perch, but only to hang suspended
from the steeple, where it still remains, a striking
spectacle of unchristian negligence (that’s a mortal
stab at the church authorities, you understand)
and refined cruelty.
“ Oh, for the rarity
Of Christian charity! ”
There is a lot more of it, but our spectacles are
clouded with tears, and we can’t read another
word. The applicability of Tom Hood’s lines to
the fate of this poor cockatoo is too touching. If
the gifted author of this thrilling story will call
round at the office, we’ll give “ the requisite
authority for it to be shot.”
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondent* who give neither name nor nom-dc-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Charles Glover”: Your note has sug-
gested a long train of recollections. Will be dealt
with next week..." Maude ” : Partial omission last
week was accidental. Don’t be discouraged. The de-
scriptions were really very acceptable...“H.W.S.”:
The sporting mems very welcome. “ Euchre ” wo
may use. The spirit of the other verses is superior
to the metre ...“Culex”: Thanks—“ What is a
Bishop?”: Your answer to this query would have
been nappier had it been left in Fonblanque's
original words “ Native ”: In all probability we
shall have to refer to it at some little length
“ Sydney Justice ” (Queen’s Place): Wo don’t see,
since we have neither power over donjon keeps
nor castle moats, how we can intervene between
you and your rival stall-keeper; but we are cer-
tainly surprised to hear that inspectors of police,
while favouring your rival, are crushing you.
Perhaps, however, he sells better bulis-eyes and
jumbles. We have rather a partiality for street
stalls, ourselves, and are much addicted to dusty
little apples, which taste of flint, and invariably
“go for” those demure oranges with large sores,
which are festering away in little piles upon the
tray. You say—" Individually, I am ruined by the
los-of my stand—literally and truly—O tempora,
U Sydney! O mores!” Nonsense! A man of your
attainments is never ruined in a country like itiis.
Start again with a basket of nuts; or, better still,
apply for the billet of one of Alfred’s dramatical
crickets “W.W.H.”: We never heard of
the show you mentioned. And, as it is an
Australian combination, it is not too much
to say that, if we have never heard of it,
it does not exist. There are doubtless, however, a
few magic-lantern and performing-goat parties
whose names might escape us—especially if they
recently changed them “ &c. «xc.” (M
brook): What do you mean by this ? " has this
day been this day (sic) duly innitiateed (sic) into
Brigham Young s family.” Go to—get thee to a
nun —we mean a tannery... “X.X.X.” (East St.
Leonard’s): Of course “ these localities [ aterloo
aud Woolloomoolool want someone to rout them
out—someone with a scourge and the will to apply
It,” We—and the country—are heartily indebted
to you for being the first to find this out. You’ve
got a lot of it somewhere. The weather's too hot
tosaywhat.." Verax”: Only just found out a par-
son can tell a lie, eh? You must be young—or deaf ..
“Septuagen ”: Yes, it was wrong to speak of the
Duke of Portland as a descendant of the mutton-
eating King whose word no man relied on. The
Caroline ducal bastards were the first Dukes of
Richmond (out of Louise, Duchess of Ports-
mouth), Grafton (out of Barbara, Duchess of
Cleveland), and St. Albans (out of NeJly Gwynne).
The Dukes of Buccleugh also trace their dtsceot
to Charles through Monmouth, his son by Lucy
Waiters. We have no reason to doubt the autho-
rity on which we spoke of the present Lord Car-
rington as a banker. He is generally believed to
have an interest in the firm or Smith, Payne, and
Smith “Thos. R. Woodward”: Take a couple
of antibiliouS pills over-night, and a seidlitz in the
morning. Surely the Wesieyans, in afioe country,
have as much right to make fools of themselves as
o her people. Vou thiak that were the Jews to
try a prayer or so for rain, they, as members
ot the church “the neatest perfect,” might be
sucoesstul. Well, we’ve not the slightest objection
to their making the attempt. As we've juht said,
’tisa free couutry "W.C.M.”: Well, hardly
“Bega”: Thank you. But not in our line. Be-
sides, you have, seemingly, written the last part
of your communication with a crutch. Send us
something a little more stirring. An essay on the
bread and alum question, now. Or how many
pounds of potatoes a bushel of “seconds” wi.i
take without blushing— ‘ C.M.” (East Wardell):
We were rather bored with your boarder, and can-
not see that treacle and salt beef have interest out-
side that of the consumer, bend it to the even-
ing nkws-O", better still, send some salt beef
and treacle. Their insertion we can guarantee —
“K —e W—s' : When last we heard of Amy
Rowe, she was playing, up country, with the
Clark and Ryman’s. Sh was then at Bourke. We
could not furnish you with any particuia, s regard-
ing the lady’s return, however much we might
desire to do so "Yankee Tom”: You say "I
have left drill.” “ Our troubles!’
It's but a mere matter of detail, dear boy, but
popular prejudice goes in favour of one "m” for
diamond. Popular prejudice may Vie wrong—it
often is—but that’s the humiliating case
“ Yendys”: Thank you, for your little joke about,
Mason, Elkington, forks, and spoons. We intend
to enlarge our paper shortly, and then
“Pine Hill” (Queensland): Your complaint that
neAvsdealers charge ninepence and even a shilling
for The Bulletin in far-aivay places, is not the
first we have received. It is a matter Avhich we
can't control. Dealers are allowed a handsome
discount per dozen for ISULL“ - tins, and can well
afford to sell for sixpence. The only way is to
subscribe direct to the office, amt the paper will be
posted without extra charge. Vide rates, on page
4 “O.”: The “no actor” yarn is a very good
one. We always admired it, even in its youth.
Rather hoary, now.
There’s an arrangement going along for
one night of sparkling opera, at the Gaiety on
Monday, tlio tittla inst. The affair is in the shape
of an operatic benefit to Miss Josephine Deakin,
that, popular and gifted little lady who made her
debftt here with the Williamsons, a short timo back,
*■ Trial by Jury,” with acts from the “Lily of Ktl-
larney,” “ Miiritana,” «Scc„ will form the pro-
gramme, More anon.!
Ninian Melville has had a row with the
Mayor of Plattsburg—a big northern city nestling
under the lee of a coal-truck—and Ninny writes
liis Worship a stinger. Listen: ‘‘Sir,—l am in
receipt of yours of 34th inst, the tone of which, to
my mind, is anything but complimentary to me.
Why did you not say in plain English that I was
to mind my own business? For that is just what
you mean. . . . What I have done 1 have done
as my duty as the representative of the district,
and I decline to be dictated to in the almost inso-
lent manner of yours of 24th January —Yours.
N. Melville.” The Council held a meeting over
this fiery epistle, but, just as they were about to
come to some decision, each alderman had to seize
his pick avd go to his shift, while the Mayor want
round to attend to the cheese-palace.
AVells’ “ Rough on Cohns."—Ask for Wells
Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.


The Referee.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
H. Evans, the English billiard player,
offers to play Weiss for £lOO aside and the Aus-
tralian championship.
On 27th Feb., at Brisbane, H. Pritchard,
the Bananaland amateur ped , showed his back to
Bonnor from start to finish of a 100 yards’ spin.
Giffen won a 250 yards’ handicap,
iff Under the new conditions for the New
Zealand Cup, the OYvncr of second and third horse
Yvill receive £2OO and £lOO respectively, so that
there will be some inducement to persevere Yvith
a horse to obtain a place.
After a wholesale weeding out of members
who have omitted to pay their subscription, the
membership of the London Athletic Club amounts
to nearly 900. A crack cricket club nearer home
suffers ;{rom the same complaint as regards
finances.
The Balmain Rowing Chib are out with
♦he programme for their annual races on March 22.
It includes maiden sculls, in outriggers, open to all
rowing clubs; members of the H.R.C., in club
skiffs, 9st. and under, lOst. and under, over lOst.
and under list., over list.; maiden double sculls,
maiden fours, and an eight-oar race, open to all
clubs. The Balmaniacs have been sane enough to
allow worruking men into the club.
Tho Newcastle R C. Regatta,
eventuates on March 29. A maiden
lour race has been left open t>
Sydney men.
Tn Melbourne, Walter
M’lndoe and young Kenney have
been matched to swim quarter
mile, half mile, and mile, for £lOO.
In Fngland, Archer has scored
a best on record in the matter of
winning mounts, his total for the
year being 232, with 399 losses.
Wood has Yvon 186 and lost 437.
Young Murphy states through
the Melbourne Sportsman that be
could easily have passed Frank to-
wards the finish of the last race, but
that he thought there was another
lap to go. Walker!
Captain Cotton, masterof the
Christchurch (N.Z.) hounds, recently
walked from Stoneyburst to Christ-
church, 68 miles, in 17% hours. The
captain wagered £l6O he could do
the distance in 18 hours.
Messrs. J. Pickering and W.
Houston, of Auckland, are Yvilling
to back S. Goodman, the boy
walker, to walk one or two miles
against any junior ped. in New Zea-
land, for any reasonable stake.
Young Murphy might work up the
agony for a match with Goodman.
The A lbert-University match
for the Holdsworth Cup was con-
tinued at the Association Ground
on Saturday. The following is the
present state of the game, which
Yvill be continued next Saturday
Alberts, first innings 110; Univer-
sity, first innings 165, second 56. So
lhat the Alberts have to get 110 in
their second innings to win.
The English Waterloo Cup
Coursing meeting was held, at a
late date, on tho Earl of Sefton’s
Estate, Altcar, near Liverpool. The
winner was found in Mr. J. Mayer’s
yv bk d Mineral Water, by Memento
—Erzererson, Greenstick being the
runner-up. The stakes were thus
apportioned:—Winner, £530 ; run-
ner-up, £200; third and fourth dogs,
£5O each; four dogs, £3O each; eight
dogs, £fO each; sixteen dogs, £lO
each.
In rc the Charles Archer dis-
qualification, it came out in the
course of investigation, that Archer
had been training Lord Ellesmere’s
horses under a special arrangement.
Lord Ellesmere was only to be re-
sponsible for the stake account, and
paid nothing for training, while the
Yvhole management was to be left
to the discretion of the trainer. It
seems strange a wealthy peer should
have adopted such a plan, and it
can scarcely be Yvondered at that
Archer, a mere lad, lost whatever
prudence and common-sense he
may have started with. Archer was
allowed tYvo months’ grace, at the
expiration of which time he Yvas to
leave Newmarket for pastures new,
which, it is rumoured, will be Aus-
tralia.
“One who knows,” declares
the Yvay tho bulk of the racing
tipsters on the Victorian Press gain
their wonderful turf experience
lies in the fact that after the final
gallops have been pulled off and
duly noted, the Yvhole army of
prophets meet at Mitchell’s Hotel,
near the course, shake up all their
“ picks” in a hat, and the horse that
has tho most votes is then selected
as the moral certainty. We do not
believe one word of this, however.
Because it it were really true, Yve
would undoubtedly have a winner
spotted nt lea»t once in every 250
>cars. We like the plan pur-
sued by our own talent mueh
better These gentlemen simply
meke a hearty supper off cow-heel,
cucumbers, and "colonial,” and
then retire to sleep—perchance to
dream. What they dream is then
written down as the result of their
“long and careful observations made
in the interests of their sporting
readers.”
The recent Caledonian games at Christ-
churih (N.Z.) were very successful. In Border
wrestling, Hudson was first and G. Robertson
second, Dinnio being beaten by both men. In
Scoleh wrestling Dinnie easily threw Matheson
and Robertson. He had not much trouble with
Hudson. Tho first try between Robertson and
Dinnie resulted iu favour of the former, after
an exciting struggle. Robertson, however, Yvas
much exhausted and slightly strained himself, so
lhat. under medical advice, he agreed to give
I'innie best Yvithout another trial. Dinnio won
the Highland fling. Dinnie, who did not compete,
threw the hammer 86ft. He competed in the 1610.
hammer-throwing handicap, and threw 115 ft,
3J4in., but J. Wright, who had 38ft. allowance,
threw <Ssft, 10)4in., and took the prize. Dinnie got
no allowance. The latter succeeded in tossing the
caber, a feat no one else could accomplish.
Says a writer in a London paper:—“To
my mind the definition of “throwing” is obvious,
'j browing is performed simply by bending the
arm at the elbow, and suddenly straightening it at
the moment of the delivery of the ball. If any of
your readeis will place himself in fi ont of a mir-
ror, he will find that he cannot possibly throw a
bad without bending the elbow ; and in order to
discover or determine whether a ball be thrown,
t ho ohscrv er should be in front and not behind the
bowler. The hand and fore-arm, during the pro-
c ss of bowling, must describe a segment of a
circle, and if the umpire be behind the bowler’s
back at the moment of the delivery of the ball, the
bu» Jer's lore-arm will have passed in front of the
bow ler's body, and beyond the umpire’s vision.
To put a sti p to the practice of throwing, the
umpire entitled to "no ball ” a bowler snould be
placed in Irc nt of the bowler, and not behind him.
Jolly old Father “Krishmish” has once
more paid a visit to Melbourne, and, judging by
appearances, we imagine his picnic hamper is even
better stocked than usual. A few days ago he was
interviewed by “Vigilant,” the Melbourne Sports-
man’s turf prophet, and as a natural result quite
a deal of that astute gentleman’s vigilance soon
began to leak on him. And so it came to pass that
when he subsequently sacrificed to the gods and
examined the omens, he tipped Muscat for a place
in the Ascot Vale Stake*, which, as even the Dean
of St. Andrew’s knows, is a valuable prize for two-
year-olds. Muscat, however, happens to he exactly
four! Just after this, the Age smartly gave it as
his opinion that the snow-coloured Hypatia was a
“dangerous-looking bay mare ;” and then old
“ Krishmish ” put the cork back in the bottle and
went round to the railway-station to welcome the
Sydney talent.
Saturday last, the first day of the V.R.C.
Autumn meeting, proved a most successful one
for the Hon. J. White’s stable, which carried off
the Ascot Vaie Stakes, the St. Leger, and the Hope-
ful Stakes. The Hon. J. deserves every success on
the turf for the plucky manner in which he stumps
up the dollars for any youngster that takes his
faney. In fact,
The Hon. J.’s proved a sport of such pluck
That it’s just occurred to us whether
A man could in reason cut up very rough
If youtoldhim he showed the “ White” feather.
For the First Hurdle Race, The Joker euchred
Don Quixote by a head for first place; Vanguard,
third. Bargo made an easy win of the Ascot Vala
Stakes; The Broker, second: Sirocco, third. For
the St. Leger, Martini-Henry defeated Off Colour
Some Aquatic Items.
with ease; Archie, third. The Newmarket Handi-
cap fell to Matua, a head in front of Le Grand;
Claptrap, a long head away, third. Salvo won the
Hopeful Stakes by a length from The Bey; Coir,
third. Anglesey defeated Little Sister by a half
length for the Brunswick Stakes; Sweet William,
third.
The Intercolonial match at Adelaide, be-
tween the locals and Victorians, was won by Vic-
toria by four wickets. South Australia scored :
First innings 334, second innings 319; and Victoria
made 285 in their first innings, and lost six wickets
in their second for 369.
The Victorian sculler, T. Woods, who de-
feated Beale recently, and was, shortly before,
“ put through ” with such ease by our Brett, is in
trouble. In connection with tbeßealerace, Woods
received the amount of the stakes deposited, in-
stead of the £lO trophy for whieh the race was
supposed to have been rowed. The question will
be tested, in the event of Woods tendering his
entry for the forthcoming Upper Yarra regatta, as
to whether his actually having received money
undersuch circumstances does not aebar him from
t gain competing as a bona fide amateur.
The following are the handicaps fer the
principal runners in Hush’s Grafton Athletic Han-
dicap on St Patrick's Day:—T. M. Malone, Sydney,
scratch; A. J. Farrell, Sydney, 3 yards; J. W.
Byrne Liverpool, 10 yards; Charles Lintott, Syd-
ney, 14 yards; Robert Simpson, Goulburn, 4 yards;
M. Cresly, Sydney, 23 yards; James Suna, Shoal-
haven, H y»rds; G H. Wilits, Sydney, 13 yards;
John Smith, Shoalhaven, 13 yards; W. J. Atkinson,
Ultimo, 12 vards; Edmund Woodhouse, Hyde, 11
yards; Alfred Atkinson, Port Macquarie, 13 yards;
t’atriok Flanaghan, Bellinger River, 14 yards;
William Noud, Grafton, 5 yards; Thomas Noud,
Grafton, 7 yards; A. J. Noud, Mountain View, 10
yards; C. Donagliue, Tenterfleld, 12 yards; Cuarles
Plater, Richmond River, 13)4 yards; J. A. Morrish,
Alstonville, Richmond River, 12 yards; William
W.lGulliford, Alumny Creek, 12 yards; J. A. Hastie,
Woodburn, Richmond River, 13 yards; E. J.
Sweeney, Glenreagb, Clarence, 13)4 yards; Thomas
Reeves, Fairy Hill, Casino, 14 yards; T. Tickle,
Coraki, Richmond River, 13 yards; A. Jones,
Katoomba, 13 yards; Jacob Gross, Grafton, 13)4
yards.
The title of John Roberts, jun., to be con-
sidered the best living exponent of English billiards
has been “hall-marked” by his recent display with
Joe Bennett. In an exhibition game, “spot-stroke
barred,” Roberts conceded a start of 400 points in
4000, and won with 800 points in hand. Yet Bennett,
who is little if anyway inferior to Cook at the all-
round game, played in his best form, and was equal
to making a run of 176—the highest all-round break
ever made in a first-class match. But with the
champion, breaks of a “century” and upwards
wore as plentiful as blackberries throughout; and
it is this wonderful capacity for keeping up his
form which renders young Roberts such an invin-
cible opponent in a long game. His ability to
“come off” whenever ho wants to, almost, was
splendidly exemplified in a match with Cook at
Newmarket. Following, as it did, shortly after
their great tussle, in which Roberts had conceded
points for the first time to his old antagonist and
proved victorious, the Newmarket match was
generally regarded as “exhibition” merely, and
Roberts took things very easily. During the second
night’s play, however, the Prince of Wales dropped
into the room, and, immediately, the champion
pulled himself together, and treated Royalty to a
break of nine hundred and upwards. Strange it is
that the three men—Roberts, Cook, and Bennett-
should have retained their positions as the best
professors of “ail round” billiards for a period of
lourteen or fifteen years. As a “spot stroker,”
certainly, Bennett is inferior to two orthrue of
his later rivals; but, in science, dapper Joe, the
beau-ideal of a billiard-player in his “get up,” can
give them as long a start with a cue as in. manners
and appearance. Mitchell, in particular, is a very
rough diamond
The Miller-Foley combination have been
giving the Cabbage-garden a treat, Jack Thompson
leing amongst the number “who kindly offered
their services.” should the Professor's mueh
written of bput with Sullivan come off, it ought
to prove a big draw; but, somehow, we fancy the
Yankee will back out of his proposal re the bona
fide four rounds business, although, perhaps,
but perish the thought that the meeting might be
a fixed-up affair. A man of Miller’s physique
ought certainly to stand for four Queensberrys
before even such a terrific punisher as Sullivan;
but, so far as knocking the Yankee out in an en-
durance contest is concerned, we do not think the
Professor has it in him. There cannot be two
opinions as to Miller’s science with his hands; but
we fancy he throws too much arm, and too littie
body, into his hitting—in fact, for actual force, we
doubt much if he strikes a harder blow than Foley,
who throws his body into every hit: but naturally
Miller's blow would have more effect on Foley’s
10 st. odd than a blow of the same force from Foley
would have on the Professor’s 13st. or 14st. Any-
way, if Miller cannot show better punishing power
than he exhibited in the Foley three-hour affair,
the Yank will for a certainty add him to his un-
broken list of victories.
The amount of added money given in
Great Britain for the past four years tots up over
a million, as follows
1880. 1881. 1882. 1883.
£246,866. £249,987. £262,329. £268,577.
Of last year’s amount £85,316 was given to tw3>=»
year-old races, £22,609 of which was for selliirc?
races, and £125,98185. was given to handicaps.
The largest steam-yacht ever constructed
is at present being built at Erith, for Baron A. d©
Rothschild, by Messrs. Shuttleworth and Chapman,
from designs furnished by Mr. A. H. Brown, N.A.
She is 246 feet in length, and 27 feet beam, and her
engines are expected to develop 1400 horse-power;
the speed expected on the mile is 14)4 knots; hence
she should be not only the largest, but also the
fastest, steam-yacht in the world. The luxurious
fittings will be supplied by a Paris firm, and the
craft is to be in commission by June. She is to be
christened the “ Eros.”
Taylor bow, Senior 2, Ankerson 3, Leve-
rett 4, Douglass 5. Hughes 6, Burnip 7, Booth
stroke, have been finally fixed upon to represent
Victoria in the coming Intercolonial Eight-oar
race; and we—yes, we!—shall be battled for by
Johnson (9st. 101 b.) bow, Walker (list. 51b.) 2, Seale
(10st. 121 b.) 3, Pickering (lOst. 131 b.) 4, Bourke (list.
91b.) 5, Gaden M2st. 21b.) 6, Webster (list, lib.) 7,
Martin (lOst. 10Tb.) stroke, G. Robertson (list. 41b.)
emerg'ency. The crew went up the river on
Saturday last, under the fostering* care of Mr.
Janies Oatley, who. it is to be hoped, will accom-
pany the crew to Melbourne, and put them through
their facings with the same success that crowned
his efforts with the light crew of two years ago.
The Mistral is to he placed in
commission again. Her long lay
up completely ruined her mast,
which snapped off close to the deck
as soon as the shrouds were slacked
up.
In the second race between
the sixteen-footers, Ouida and Vic-
tor, the latter craft belied her
name, as the Ouida, built and sailed
by George Ellis, won with some-
thing like 100 yards to spare.
The Australian Eleven are
quarrelling amongst themselves
already. Australian Elevens have
never been remarkable for
unanimity, but this one appears to
be in a great hurry to fall out.
Perhaps the dimes are not falling
in fast enough.
Little or no interest appears
to be taken in the doings of the
Australian Eleven. On 27 th Feb-
ruary, the match with twenty-two
of Queensland resulted in a win for
the eleven by an innings and 46 runs.
In the first innings of the twenty-
two, only three men obtained double
figures; and in the second, Silvester,
with 12, was the only man who
scored over eight.
The Double Bay Sailing Club
have fixed their annual subscrip-
tion at a guinea per annum. No
entrance fee to be charged. The
Club have already had an offer, on
very liberal terms, of a shed with
sufficient ground adjoining on
which to put up an additional
structure. It is also intended to
allow rowing men to lodge rowing
boats on the club premises, at a
nominal rental.
Gundagai Races, Thursday
and Friday last. Infidel won both the
Maiden Plates; Miss Wye carried off
the J. C. Handicap; and Adventurer
was all there in the Mile Handicap.
On the second day Uncle Ned won
the Ladies’ Purse; Canary the
Prince of Wales Stakes; Drummer
Girl the Town Plate; After Dark
the half-mile flutter, and Letitia
finished up the meeting by winning
the Forced Handicap.
In the window of Mr Evan
Jones’ establishment, Hunter-street
are now on view the handsome
trophies to be shot for at the Canter-
bury Park Pigeon Match, on March
12th. The first prize consists of a
magnificent marble clock and pair
of antique bronzes, valued at £l5
15s. The second prize is a silver
dessert service, worth £8 Bs., and
the third an oaken horse - shoe
clock valued at £3 3s.
The junior cricketers were
busy on Saturday last. For the
Cup, thte Croydon-Waverley Me-
chanics match finished in a win for
the former club by seven wickets.
Scores: Waverleys, first innings,
158'; second innings, 20. Croydons,
first innings, 129 ; second innings,
50 for three wickets. Bowtell took
seven wickets for 13 runs during the
second innings of the Waverley.
At Rushcntter’s Bay, the Orientals
and Eastern Suburbs played a draw
much in favour of the former.
The Cup match, next Saturday,
will be between the Conservatives
and Orientals.
W. H. Vanderbilt and Frank
Work, the wealthy Yankee sporting
men, in consequence of a disagree-
ment of long standing, never speak
as they pass h y. and the breach has
been widened lately by Vanderbilt
discovering amongst the papers
of his father a due bill of
£l2OO. signed F. Work. On pay-
mentbeing demanded and refused,
Mr V. instructed his lawyer to
enforce its collection. Work then
went to work rummaging his busi-
ness archives and found a cheque in-
dorsed by the late commodore,
which he claims satisfied the above
indebtedness, and he has com-
menced legal proceedings against
Vanderbilt for bringing a groundless
ajtion, with intent to injure his
credit.
Maidment, an erstwhile famous English
jockey, is coming, it is said, to seek his fortune in
these parts, as trainer and jock., and will be pretty
sure to meet with patronage. Maidment’s career
has been a striking illustration of the evil which a
man, in his profession, may work for himself, by
the worship of Bacchus. Ifit so many years ago,
the “lucky jockey ’—as he used to be called—was
carrying everything before him, and for bis old
master, Mr. Saville, he landed most of the big
prizes of the turf, including a Derby—on Cre-
morne. Even after his indiscretions had brought
about a rupture with his principal patron, Maid-
ment was selected to ride Kisber in the Derbv, the
Hungarian gentleman who owned that equine
wonder being advised (so the tale went) that Maid-
ment was “ the best jockey in the world—when
right.” So they took means to guard him from
the alluremeuts of the flowing bowl, and Kisber
won the Derby in a canter. But soon after that
Maidment went quite behind a cloud, and a lack of
nerve kept him out of the saddle until three or
four seasons back. Then he got but very few
mounts, although the “form ” he displayed, when
he did get a chance, proved that “ it’s never too
late 1 o mend.” Maidment has recently been pri-
vate trainer for Lord Folkestone, we believe, but
that engagement would not be sufficiently remun-
erative to keep him from trying a “ fresh start ”
in a new country.
A heavy thunder shower about two
o’clock on Saturday last made things look blue for
the Glebe Point Rowing Club scratch-four race,
but later on it cleared off, and the afternoon
turned out everything that could be desired. No
less than six crews started, and as only two boats
were available, the race was rowed off in heats, but
uo time was cut to waste, and the whole affair


A Great Business.— The United States of
America is the home of some very large enter-
prises, but none perhaps greater than the business
conducted by Mr. G. G. Green, of Woodbury, New
Jersey, U.S.A. He is the proprietor of the well-
known Boschee’s German Syrup, which is un-
equalled as a remedy for Pulmonary and Bronchial
affections. He manufacturers also Green’s August
Flower for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the
Liver. These preparations are used throughout
the civilized world, and thousands testify to their
valuable curative properties. Both these prepara-
tions have reached an immense sale solely on their
merits. Sample bottles of each are sold at 6d., or
full-sized bottles at 3s. 6d. All druggists keep
them.*
Many bodily ills result from habitual con-
stipation, and a fine constitution may be broken
and ruined by simple neglect. There is no medi-
cine equal to Ayer’s Pills to correct the evil,
and restore the organs to natural, healthy, and
regular action.
iUBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
ESTABLISHED 1864,
late 482 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET]
viz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Or. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD 8HO?
EVERY
MAW
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marstog’s New
Describing how sufferer;.! from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
WEAK, NKRVOCB, AJiB IttI’OTENT
MEN KKSTOKKO TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. Address—
Marston Remedy Co.,
72 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
A Check to Drunkenness!
THAT Curse of Nations, which desolates our
homes, tills our gaols, and ends in painful un-
timely Heath. A beverage is wanted that stimu-
lates, yet not intoxicates. Its price must be
modorate. The problem is satisfactorily solved
by
DALM AND OERTEL’S SELTZER-WATER,
Paitronised and ordered by all leading doctors.
Highly spoken of by the Press. “Nofamily should
be without it.” We also highly recommend our
Lemonade, Soda-water, Ginger Ale, Tonic. Lithia-
water for Gout—the only remedy. Potass-water
for Rheumatism. Friedrichsballor bitter-water,
and Carlsbad, for centuries known as the best
purgatives. Obtainable at leading Hotels, Grocers,
Chemists, &e., throughout the colonies. For town
and suburbs delivered by our carts.
MINERAL-WATER WORKS,
37 Bourke-street, Redfern.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sans
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE. MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay,
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWAIIKA
KONOOWARRA
LEURA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 Kin# Street, Sydney.
QUONG TART & CO.,
Wholesale and Retail
Tea Merchants l liorters
38, 39, and 30 SYDNEY ARCADE, and
7 ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
All Teas carefully selected at the plant itions by
our own Tea-taster, and quality guarateed.
Intending purchasers should visit our Tea Rooms
and sample for themselves before buying.
The ladies of the city will find our now rooms in
the King-street Arcade a great acquisition—airy,
comfortable, and commodious, with prompt
attendants.
AND PARIS IN SYDNEY.
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
W. ■W. CATEE’S,
IMPORTER & GENERAL DRAPER,
193 and 195 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT,
Under the management of.the celebrated Mr. ALIKE HTO E. CiEISMARIIO, from Paris, decorated
with the Gold Legion of Honor, Professional Kid Glove Fitter to the hand, just arrived from Paris by
the steamer Potosi, formerly in charge of the well-known Kid Glove Department of the Hon Marcho,
Paris, now Kid Glove Department manager at W. W. CATER’S, 193 and 195 Pitt-Strekt.
Every pair of Kid Gloves sold warranted a perfect fit. The Paris Kid Glove Department is fitted
out in the professional continental manner and style. Ladies and gentlemen will find it to their
advantage to have their Kid Gloves fitted to the hands at the PARIS KID GLOVE DEPARTMENT.
Kid Gloves fitted to perfection
Kid Gloves fitted in two minutes at the counter
Kid Gloves warranted a perfect fit
Kid Gloves from 2 to 20 buttons
Kid Gloves of all descriptions in the latest style
Kid Gloves, Mousquetaire style
Kid Gloves, Gauntlet style
Kid Gloves, Sarah Bernhardt style
Silk and Lisle Thread Gloves, Lace Mitt#
Prices guaranteed the lowest in the city. The largest Kid Glove stock in the colonies. Mr. Alberto IS
Geismardo, Kid Glove Department manager. English, French, Spanish, Italian, Flemish, Dutch, and
German spoken at the Paris Kid Glove Department.
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper,
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
Giticura
; v;
\
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE CURE
FOR EVERY FORM OF
SKIN AND BLOOD
DISEASE
FROM
•V
Scrofula ou neck.
PIMPLES to SCROFULA
T\IBFIGURING HUMORS, Humiliating Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with loss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Rbsolvest
internally, and Cuticura and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
gious Humors, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches, Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Enoemia, Pyaemia, Leucorrhoea,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figui-ing humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuticura Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
iter, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus rem.-.ves the CAUSE.
Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicina*
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itchirg and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Fleshl
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Cuticura Soap, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cuticura, is
indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or Greasy Skin.
Cuticura Remedies, are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautifiers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, orany other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
For Sale by all retail chemi;ts and wholesale
druggists throughout the colonies. Price,
Cuticura, 50 cents per box, large boxes, $1.00;
Cuticura Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Shaving
Soap, 15 cent 3; Cuticura Resolvent, $l.OO per
bottle. Prepared by the
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston,
U.S.A.
passed off in a manner creditable to the executive.
Ickerson, Cockburn, Curnow, and had
next thing to a row over for the first heat, as a
member of Bull’s crew came off his slide imme-
diately after the start; Fairweather, Cox, Mac-
ready and Harper had an easy affair in the second
neat, and Cox, Elphinstone, Flannery, and Mackay,
after a good struggle with Williams crew won the
third heat. For the second round Fairweather’s
crew had an easy victory over Cox’s ditto; and
Ickerson’s four ran a bye. It was expected the
final would prove a close race, but Fairweather’s
crew proved their superiority immediately after
the start and won by three lengths. One gentle-
man in the winning crew, towards the finish of
each event, waved his hand to the assembled
thousands on shore. That such an action was in
bad taste goes without saying, and another thing,
we shall, no doubt, have a surfeit of hand-waving
from Stanton without every sucking—but, no, the
word don’t apply. It is some days since the bhoy
we refer to cut his eye teeth.
Go-as-you-please gastronomical contests
are the latest sporting craze, and our Mr Bibby
would do well to look to his burgoo laurels. Pie-
eaters to the number of 33 recently struggled for the
championship of Pittsburg, and after a desperate
struggle, Ben F. Buzzard, won on the fork, as it
were, by surrounding 6% pies; C. Parson being
second with 6)4, and T. Weilmott third with 6. The
contest pie is made of the very best materials; is
8 inches in diameter, and weighs 14 ounces. So
that Mr Buzzard must have passed the post with
about 7)4 of pie behind bis bloated pinny. A
still more exciting tussle, however, took place
in Detroit, when 27 competitors grasped a pie each
and wolfed away like mad. Thousands of specta-
tors crowded round to see the fun, and a large
amount of money was wagered. At the fifth round
only three of the original 37 were able to come to
come to time, and two of these seemed full to the
ears even then. Just as the hour was up a buck
nigger, named Lauser. disposed of his seventh pie
and was crowned the victor. And as he received
the stakes he gasped out his thanks, and said “ By
golly, I’ze hed ’nuff pies now to last me fo’ a whole
yeah, an’ I swar I niver hed so much company to
guppah wid me befo’.” All the above gum games
are, however, completely “ took down ” by the
record of a Yorkshireman named Jerry Eke, who
was recently backed to eat a whole calf at one
sitting. The calf was duly killed, chopped up into
minute particles and apportioned into 17 enormous
pasties, and when all were cooked, Jerry was told
he could “wire in.” This he did until he got
through the ninth pie, when he rtriflcnly stopped,
and said to his backer “ I say, SHstur; I’ze aint
got nothin’ t’ say agin them their poys. coz I likes
tjm amazin well; but I’m a-thinkin’ et’s jest
abaywt time as I shud begin upon that there calf! ”
It’ll take a man with an extremely elastic stomach
to wrest the champion belt from Jerry,
Charles Archer, the astute young trainer
(under whose care Mr. Long placed some horses
lefore he left England), has made such a name
for “cleverness” that the Jockey Club has de-
clined to grant him a renewal of the license to
train horses on Newmarket Heath. It is only a
season or two back since the autocratic body
adopted the system of issuing yearly licenses to all
trainers using their ground, and the circumstanoe
of the great Fred. Archer’s brothor being the first
to come under the ban has caused a considerable
flutter in the English sporting world. Not that it
was altogether unexpected, for “ Charlie ” Archer,
during the comparatively short time he has fol-
lowed his vocation, has managed to effect some
wonderful “ alterations in form ” with horses
under his charge, and the alterations have been so
strikingly “ clever ” and remunerative as to at-
tract special attention. Two seasons back, the in
and out running of Lord Ellesmere’s horse, Low-
land Chief (trained by Charles Archer), was
brought under the immediate notice of the
Jockey Club by Sir John Astley, and since
then the doings of other of his lordship’s steeds
have been equally erratic. Other trainers have
done suspicious things occasionally—notably Tom
Brown, whose license is “under consideration”—
but their coups have not been brought off in the
same successful manner, and rumour says that it
is to the fact of several prominent “swells” hav-
ing backed the second horse in more than one big
handicap for which Archer has supplied an unex-
pected winner, that his disgrace is directly attri-
butable. At any rate, unless “ Charlie ” had
seriously offended some of the “powers that be,”
it is certain that the influence of the renowned
Fred—who is understood to have benefited pecu-
niarily by most of his brother’s “goodthings”—
would have been sufficient to have saved his rela-
tive. By the bye, according to latest advices, it
seems that the Jockey Club will permit the young
man to still gallop his horses over the classic
heath, until such time as he can communicate with
Mr. Long respecting the future destination of the
latter’s stud. As Australia is some distance from
Newmarket, there is a possibility of the Jookey
Club relenting, and giving Aroher “one more
chance ” before Mr. Long’s instructions come to
hand.
AT EUCHRE.
[By Henry Wadsworth Shortchap.]
The shades of night were falling fast,
As in a Sydney pub. there sat
Four men, who " cut ” and “ dealt ” and “ passed ”
And scooped the pool into a hat
At euchre.
One’s brow was glad, his eye beneath
Flashed like a falchion from its sheath
(He was the “ soukar ” of the crowd),
And with a smile he shouted loud:
“ I order up.”
His pardner led the ace of hearts—
Why is it that the “ soukar ” starts ?
The Second man a trump put on I
From “ soukar’s ” lips escapes a groan
“ We’re euchred.”
“We'll score this time,” his pardner said.
The “soukar” smiled and shook his head:
The third man winked straight at his pard,
For he held the bowers and “joker ” card,
And led a trump.
“ Oh, drop the cards,” the barmaid said,
“ Your luck is gone—go, go to bed.”
A tear stood in his bright blue eye,
But still he ar swered with a sigh,
“ My luck will change.”
“ Beware of playing long and rash !
Beware the awful thoughts of ‘ smash!’ ”
This was the landlord’s last good-night—
A voice replied far up the height,
“ I’m a sticker.”
At break of day as stationward
The “ force ” of Sydney wended,
And talked about each “ cookie ” fair,
A voice cried through the startled air,
“ I’m stone broke.”
The “soukar,” lifeless on the ground,
Half buried in the dust was found,
Still grasping in his hand of ice
A play-card, with this strange device.
The “joker” card.
There in that dim light, cold and grey,
Lifeless but beautiful he lay;
And from the sky serene and far
A voice fell like a falling star—
“ ’Twas euchre.”
Wellington (N.Z.), Feb. 16, 1884.
The stories in re Hanlan, going the rounds
of the Press, are getting as plentiful and truthful
as Yass snake stories. Turf, Field, and Farm
tells the following :—“ Last Tuesday, while five
of the Pioneer Club six-oar crew were sitting in
their shell and swearing vigorously at the non-
appearance of the sixth man, who was half an
hour late, a well - dressed and modest young
granger strolled into the boat-house and began
inspecting the equipments with great interest.
111 tell you what we’lldo, fellows,’said thestroke.
As No. 4 isn’t coming, suppose we coax that dude
there to take a row, and bust him all up.’ The
perpetration of this time-honoured joke upon a
softy’ was received with approbation, and the
new-comer was, with a grand show of hospitality,
invited to take the vacant oar. ’Well, I don’t
know,’ gentlemen, said the young man, looking at
his watch doubtfully. ‘ I’m a stranger here. Ido
need a little exercise, though.’ * Oh, get in,’ said
No. 2, winking at his companions; ‘a little spin
will do you good,’ and they finally persuaded the
victim of their kindly scheme to take off his coat
and assume a club cap. ‘Now keep your eye on
me, and try to keep time,’ remarked the captain;
‘you’ll never make an oarsman unless you watch
the stroke.’ ‘ I’ll do the best I can, gentlemen,’
said the guest meekly. ‘ I’m always willing to im-
prove.’ The boat went down towards Hunter’s
Point a couple of miles, at an easy, three-quarter
stroke, the new-comer pulling away manfully
with the rest, and when they eased off to turn back
they were surprised to observe that the stranger
did not appear to be quite so much blown as they
expected. ‘Now, then, young feller,’ said the
stroke, with a grin, ‘try to keep up with the pro-
cession. Hit her up, boys. Hard all!’ But some-
how the stranger scratched along with the rest,
and though the place was somewhat like 46, as
they passed Butcher town, the victim serenely
sawed away, and the bowman even imagined that
he splashed less than any oar in the boat. When
they finally drew up to the Hoar, and while the
crew were panting for wind, spitting cotton and
wiping their dripping faces, the * passenger ’
looked around, with a childlike simplicity upon
his unflushed face, and softly remarked: -‘ why
didn’t you spurt her?’ ‘Spurt h—ll’ panted
the stroke. ‘ Why— er—what the—er— I say, young
feller, where did you come from? ’ * From New
York, gentlemen,’ replied the stranger, modestly,
as he slipped on his coat and started up the wharf.
‘My name is Hanlan—Edward Hanlan.’ Oh,
George Washington! ”
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Belle of the Isle, a famous mare in New
Zealand, died a short time ago ... Challenge match
on the tapis between seven members of the Sand-
hurst, and a like number of the Melbourne Gun
Club.. Joe Kitchen is still in the land of the
living. In Melbourne, the “talent ” recently gave
the veteran a benefit ... At Botany, on Saturdav.
the Britannia C.C. defeated the local club by 28
runs. Scores: Britannia, 69; Botany, 41 The
N.Z. j)ed., O’Connor, visits Melbourne this month.
He will run in the mile race at the St. Patrick's
Day sports —Says the Australasian : “For
painfully obvious reasons, S. Cracknel! did not
have a mount at the T.T.C. meeting. ‘Oh I that a
man should put an enemy into his mouth to steal
away his brain.’ ” And this from a pressman!
In Maoriland, Donald Dinnie wants to wrestle John
Tiffen, Cumberland style, for a couple of centuries.
....Mr. Thomas Haydon, secretary of the Victorian
Club and Australian Coursing Club, has been
elected secretary of the Victorian Trotting Club.
The Auckland (N.Z.) Racing Club offer a pre-
mium of 50gs. for the best design of a grand stand
capable of accommodating 2500 persons The
well-known English jockey, Maidment, is contem-
plating a visit to Australia—Batty made a good
record across the sticks in Tasmania. Out of six
races in which he started he brought his horse
first past the post on five occasions, and finished
third on the sixth Jockey King, who has had
such a run of ill luck lately, is fit for the saddle
again —The Interprovincial match, Wellington
v. Hawke’s Bay, resulted in favour of the former
by 166 runs. Scores : Wellington, 100 and 198 ;
Hawke’s Bay, 100 and 32 Donald Dinnie opens in
Wellington on March 1. It is facetiously stated that
the Under-Secretary for Railways, intends to
try conclusions with him at wrestling, Cumber-
land style —In N.Z., the pedestrian match, on
February 16, between C. Hulston, of Christchurch,
and F. Woods, of Dunedin, for £lOO a side and the
championship of New Zealand, resulted in an easy
victory for Woods. The match was run in five
distances of 100, 200, 300, 350, and 400 yards.
* * *
It is said that Matthew Dawson means to
retire from his position as a public trainer as soon
as the stud of his chief employer (Lord Falmouth)
has been dispersed —Captain Heaton, Lord Elles-
mere’s manager at Worsley Hall, recently paid
50gs. to a Caine dealer for a black-red game cock.
One of this bird’s sons was claimed at the Birming-
ham Show of 1882 for 50gs., and at the last show
there two of his grandsons were claimed for £2OO.
He is a sire and grandsire of a great number of
prize birds.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Orange J.C March 13.14.
Wollongong March 17.
Gundaroo March 17
Wellington Annual March 17,18.
Albury March, 17,18.
Canterbury Park R.C March 23.
Bourke J.C May 22, 23.
Condob®lin ..March26, 27.
Corowa R.C March 27.
Wahgunyah R.C March 29.
Hawnesbury R.C. Autumn April 3, 6.
Balonne (Q.) Races April 8, 9.
A.J.C. Autumn April 12,14,16,19.
Wilcannia J.C April 23, 24, 25.
Northern J.C April 30, May 2.
Murrumbidgee J.C May 7, 8.
Great Western Downs (Q.) May 14,15.
Hay May 16,1«.
Newcastle J.C May 24.
Mudgee R.C June 4, 5.
AQUATICS
Balmain Rowing Club Regatta March 22.
Newcastle K.C. Regatta. March 29.
Intercolonial Eight-jar Race, Victoria v.
N.S.W April 5.
Trickett v. Beach April 12.
ATHLITICS.
Rush’s £lOO Handicap, Grafton.. March 17.
Qoulburn Athletic Sports , March 17.
Guleong Sheffield Handicap March 17.
Burke v. Macaulay, at Gouiburn. March 17.
Carcoar Sheffield Handicap April 14.
Cobar Sheffield Handicap April 17,18,19.
Thistle Club Sports, Agricultural Society’s
Grounds May 24.
Casino £3O Handicap .. May 24.
Bourke Sheffield Handicap May 25.
CYCLING.
Suburban B.C. Meeting May 10


All your own fault if you remain sick or
nut of health, when you can get Hop Bitters.
, all
Sampling
Raad.
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines,
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sami
Cellars. H 3 Pitt,-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
Catarrh or the Bladder.— Stinging irritation,
inflamation, all Kidney and similar Complaint,s
cured by “ Buchu-paiba.” Moses, Moss & Co.
Sydney, General Agents.
Mr. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land’
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Publio Department undertaken; Titles a
speciality.—Ad vr*
F
r ENITURB SHOW ROOMS.
BRADLEY, NEWT JN, and LAMB,
0 Conneii ana Spring streets, Sydney
ALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
t> nd
El
H
Fading and lounge chairs.
X\RAWING-ROOM SUITES, In EXQUISITE
| I taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
WALL" CABINETS for Choice China, too.,
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb. .
URNITURE.—THE LARGEST STOCK IN
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
MB, O’Connell-street.
ARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
TVEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
11 and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smalier wardrobes
rooms. Grvat variety. BRADLEY, new rum
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
E' IGHT-POUJJD BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. IIRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE—Whatnots, from 3Us;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stand’s. from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d: Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20e; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 365; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s.
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitohen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
'I
OOK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed round
strong, and durable, Trichord lull
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
VERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black.and Gold, with bide
Shelves. 85s. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O
,CCASION_
Tapestry,
TABLES, elegantly finished in
1 broidery. Plush, &c. ~
CHIFFONNIER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, tor
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STY LRS
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEI.
PERFECT WORKS OF lnspection invited.
RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRSC-
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. -
CHAIR B EDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and mex-
10ILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
the pair.
T
narble top, 80s
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DIN ING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
<SARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two l aves ; LARGE PIER GLASS,
Couch, gent, s and lady s easy chairs,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
DINTNG - TABLES, with patent extending
sc -ew, from 5 feet long and up to 20 teet.
iELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR-
k Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will ot
the occupant. It is simple, yet inger«|iuB in its
construction; works automatically. TTte above
cut represents only two of the numejjiwMPOSitions
that can be obtained, instantly, and wirngmt little
effort. It fits perfectly every part oFWne body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four'inches inthickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMIi! (only).
ARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
T7IKAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
Jj and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
T7IRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNT-
Ii TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEW TON, and
LAMB.
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and blacK and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
B
Bedding.— ah desen
BRADLEY,
nell-street.
jrinMpns at lowest rates.
Tfl% and LAMB, O’Con-
WASHSTANDS, with
LEY, NEWTON,
9E'
Ve
kivHloui
25s each. BRAD-
B.
GARDEN SEATS. Verandah Chairs.
INDIAN LONG-AR»rtOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, low eat prices.
B
SOCIAL
The days of the waltz said to be numbered.
Already the thin end of the wedge has appeared in
English soeiety, where the introduction of several
Continental dances and the partial displacement
of the old favourite is a fait accompli. The Ger-
man lendler, the polonaise, and the Austrain cour
nelle are the new arrivals. Well, if their move-
ments are as graceful and sensation as delighttul
as the valse as it is now danced in circles where
poetry of motion and not gymnastic exuberance
is a p precis tod as its true character, let them
come. It doesn’t matter. Wo know that when they
do, the heavy female—who sees in our eye that
we are going to ask her, who rushes us into the
madding crowd before we have time to stutter
that we’re ill and want to go home, who dislocates
our arm, and camps on our feet, and moves as
smoothly as the jigger in a llour-mill —will still bo
there. There’s no killing her.
* * *
The marriage of Miss Robertson to the
famous naturalist, Baron Maelay, was celebrated
last week at the residence of Sir John Robertson,
the bride’s father. The wedding was conducted
in quiet style, and was “assisted” only by the
relatives and more intimate friends of the happy
couple. m 9
A meeting was held on Thursday, the 21st
ultimo, with the object of forming an Owl Club at
Parramatta, and was fairly attended. A com-
mittee having been appointed to draw up rules,
the meeting adjourned to a later date. The young
owls will probrtbly give their first hoot in the
course of a fortnight’s time.
• • •
The Balmain Royal Amateur Minstrels
gave a variety performance last week (Feb. 27) in
the Sydney Gymnasium, and had a crowded
audience. A large share of the work fell on Mr.
G. Ireland, as interlocutor and general “boss,
and on Mr. H. Smithcrs, the lion. sec. of the
dramatic club which took a beueflt on the occa-
sion. Part I. comprised comic and sentimental
songs, some of the newest of which were special
favourites of dear old Methuselah’s, who used to
say that he always liked songs that had the
test of time. The concerted conversation between
the two bones, the tambos, and the centre man,
was good ; and behind the sable semi circle of
iokers was an orchestra of capital musicians, in-
cluding J. A. Hermann, Captain Fletcher, and Mr.
Chris. Sheppard, who acted throughout as ac-
companist, most efficiently. Part 11. included
a clever violin solo by Mr. Hermann; ballad by
S. James; and a very, very funny stump oration by
C Callaway, who introduced locals about the Past
Sydney election. F. Jones gave a Chinese patter-
song, and his attire was a grand make-up; and
Messrs. W. and E. Needs executed a sailors’ horn-
pipe, in all the glory of snow-white ducks, and had
to come on again and give an encore performance.
A screaming fare© concluded th© efforts ol the
Minstrels; the three Ireland brothers all proving
themselves smart, while F. Jones's art in personat-
ing a star-actress quite thrilled the ladies, when
the programme ended, most of the company ad-
journed, at the invitation of Messrs. Needs, to
Nithsdale, where dancing began about 11 o’clock,
and was kept up for two or three hours on then-
splendid floor. It was supposed to be not lull
dress nevertheless some of the ladies looked par-
ticularly alluring, and we are sure they all enjoyed
themselves. m m *
An interesting ceremony took place on the
39th ultimo in the Synagogue, Rundle-street, Ade-
laide, the occasion being the “hitching up of
two popular young members of the Jewish fra-
ternity. The Rev. A. T. Boas officiated. Alter the
usual'civil contract was completed, the religious
ratification according to the ancient Jewish rites
was proceeded with, the bridegroom putting the
ring on the finger of the bride, and saying, “ Thou
art wedded to me according to tho laws of Moses
and Israel.” The ceremony, which was conducted
with tlie assistance of a full choir, concluded with
tho expressive custom of breaking the wine-glass
under foot by the bridegroom. The source of
this peculiar symbol is traceable to the teaching
of tho ancient Rabbins, who have inculcated the
principle that all religious festivities should be
accompanied by some illustrations of sorrowful
remembrances of the destruction of their Temple.
• • •
The annual picnic in connection with the
Carthona Cricket Club took place on Saturday
afternoon last at Tennyson, and despite the threat-
ening aspect of the weather, quite two hundred
visitors turned up, including a good proportion of
ladies. The steamer Balmain, which is lar in
advauce of the ordinary “pie-can” order usually
brought into requisition upon such occasions,
nfforded ample accommodation. The result was an
enjoyable trip up the river. Getting through that
swine bridge, however, is a caution to impatient
travellers. On arrival at Tennyson most of the
visitors made for the pavilion to negotiate a pro-
gramme of twelve dances, the Prince of Wales
luiud providing capital music, but the heat of the
weather interfered sadly with the votaries
Terpsichore, inducing a decided state of limp, a
large number pairing off after the first dance or
two ostensibly to view the romantic scenery from
some secluded nook. All white material was the
prevailing colour among the ladies, excepting
their faces, which were “ all red,” plainly denoting
the vigorous exercise they were undergoing.
Six o’clock brought “God save the Queen, and
a return to the steamer. The journey home was
enlivoned by some capital singing by members of
the club, prominent among the number being Mi-.
L G Abrams, thehon. secretary, to whom much
credit is due for his admirable arrangements.
* * *
The Balmain Amateur Dramatic Club gave
representation of “Our Girls,” on Friday even-
ing to a large and fashionable audience, in the
School of Arts, Balmain. Great care had evi-
dently been taken in mounting the piece, and the
efforts of the ladies and gentlemen who took part
in it were warmly applauded. Miss Moran, as
H elen Gavthorne, created a great sensation among
the “ stick racks.” Miss Jones (daughter of 8.N.)
enacted the somewhat secondary part of Lilian
with ease and gracefulness. Mr. Frank Smith, as
Fred Fanshawe, the man who has all the luck of
it and won’t see it, successfully mashed the crowd.
Aided bv a pleasing voice and a sentimental “ head
of ha’r ” his rendering of the part seemed to meet
with general approval; and, as we didn’t take our
girl we are not going to be cynical. Mr. Frank
lones’ delineation ofthe designing “ widder” was
Also well received. Though the presence of youth
and strength could occasionally be detected, tho
dissruiso of Mrs. Gunn was, on the whole, well
“ “stained, and led to many a hearty laugh. Mr.
Perry in the part of Tootal, infused a lot of life
into it Messrs. Perdrieu (Doctor Fleming), Walker
r-antain Gingah) Murray (Arthur Medwyn), and
i lovd (as Edwards) were at home in their several
nn rts Miss Moran wore (in the first act) a pale cream
iatin ‘with cardinal ribbons and garden hat en suite ;
in the second, a cardinal and cream satin dinner
costume, and lastly a pompadour satin wrapper,
trimmed with lace. Miss Jones made her debut in
A nnle pink satin, trimmed with cardinal ribbon
onit lace fixings. In the second act we were be-
wildered by a pale blue silk dinner dress; in the
third act. black velvet, with pale blue back haul—
we mean sash. Many of the leading residents of
Balmain were present, amongst them the Mayor
and other civic functionaries.
* * *
Dresses ou the “Block” have presented
t, w novelties lately. Promenaders, too, have been
in number, owing doubtless to the muggy,
unpleasant weather of the last week or two. Those
adies who dared the searching sun and wreaths
of dust appeared to take refuge mthe lightest and
airiest of materials. Soft china silk, white lawn,
airy India muslins, and other textures aiming tit
the minimum of ‘‘loud, were noticeable, usually
s ■ rmount e i by the Henri Deux hat. Jbe tendency
of evening dress is towards richness of texture
and wealth of ornamentation. Gold and silver
thread and beads are frequently called mto requi-
sition to heighten the effect of the dowers stamped,
embroidered, or painted upon the velvet, satin, or
brocade. Th« inlluence of climate, however, will
not be denied, and heavy costumes are in a great
measure resigned to the elder ladies, the young
and active shrinking from the embarrassment and
fatigue too often the concomitants of an elaborate
nnd ponderous toilet. In the circles we saw an
etherial maiden in while tulle, beautifully trimmed
with blue satin ribbons. A realistic dress was of
cream silk, trimmed with plush wall-dowers;
another of ruby ottoman silk and velvet, the
front and sleeves of which were relieved by rudtes
of lace, appeared to have been designed lor some
more important arena. A pale blue nun 8 veiling
brightened by silver dowers was a softer concep-
tion, and admirably suited the sweet lace of the
wearer. On (lit that the lady has captivated our
latest legislative celebrity, and is about to become
the slave of the ring.
• • *
The opening of the newly-made roads in
New Caledonia gave occasion for the greatest fete-
making that colony has yet seen, and some °i, toe
proceedings were of a decidedly novel kind. They
lasted five days, during which few of the gay and
festive cusses” who participated enjoyed either
sleep or rest. On a Thursday afternoon, the
Governor headed the procession out of Noumea,
and after a few addresses at triumphal arches on
the road, and eating grapes at the only vineyard
in the island, the first night was spent at the
village of Paita. There, by some bung ling, dinner
was everything that was bad. Dancing till 3 a.m.
On Friday morning, the cavalcade moved on to a
road junction, where speeches were made, and the
Governor kissed one of the other big officials on
both cheeks with a noise like a pop-gun. I hen the
march continued to St. Vincent, through clouds of
blinding dust, and when they got there.there was no
water to wash i n , and only two or three beds for
the crowd. Races took place in the afternoon, one
being between two English ladies 1 1) Next morn-
ing to Bouloupari. through a swamp swarming
with mosquitoes, followed by whirlwinds of fine
dust. At this place a steamer bad come round
from Noumea with some threescore more officials,
citizens, their wives, &c., and the whole popula-
tion was walking around, like Bill Nye, in a
frightfully dissolute state.” In a rough booth,
there was a play, as broad as French plays usually
are; and niter the play dancing was got up in a
room at the hotel, although a dozen men in various
stages of undress and alcohol were snoring round
the apartment. At 5 o’clock on Sunday morning
there was a sham fight, and after breakfast races
again, in which no Australian jockeys were allowed
to ride. It seems the Australian horsey voung man
doesn’t bear a high character in New Caledonia.
In the evening, the Governor gave a dinner,
and then came the great piece de resistance
of the whole festivities-a grand ball. And every-
one began to look for the dancing hall. They
found it. It was a small paddock, about 20 yards
bv 30, fenced in with branches, one rough plank
all round for seats, and dust and stones ankle
deep all about. This was too “ rough, ’ even tor a
new colony, and the fair sex “struck” for some-
thing better. So convicts were set to work tear-
ing down the benches of the ‘ theatre, and the
“grand stand” of the race-course, and laid the
planking all over the back-yard of the hotel.
Dancing began to the convict band. But trouble
was not over yet. The first set had hardly been
done, when the Mayor of Bouloupari appeared on
the scene, and solemnly ordered the Governor to
stop the giddy proceedings. It seems the original
“ball-paddock” had been prepared close to the
Mayor’s own pub., and as it wasn t used, his Wor-
ship lost a large revenue derivable from antici-
pated drinks, which went to a rival house. The
Governor, however, didn t suspend festivities; he
suspended the Mayor. Then His Excellency, M.
Pallu du la Barriere, triumphantly went on with
the ball, no doubt turning in his mind a compari-
son of its primitive grandeur with the splendours
of our own St. Vincent’s, at which His Excellency
was one of the foremost gay figures some sixteen
months ago. From the ball-room, all walked
down to the vessels, and landed again in Noumea
on the Monday afternoon, with noses crimsoned
bv the blazing sun, clothes begrimed with inland
soil and faces red-eyed and hollow-cheeked,
through weariness and want of sleep.
* * *
In a little hamlet, it was
promised, when the Episcopal Church was built,
that the first happy couple married within its
walls should be presented with a handsome Bible
and prayer-book. But even this, coupled with the
subtlest stratagems of the girls, tailed to bring
any bachelor fo the front for a long time, and it
was feared the present would go unclaimed. At
last it was announced one of the girls had been
victorious, and on the great day, numbers came
in from around to witness the wedding. un-
punctual, however, were the loving couple, that
even then it was almost suspected to be a false
report, and unsuccessful maidens maliciously in-
sinuated th.it the delay was due to unwillingness
on the part of the alleged captive. This theory is
disproved by the fact that that happy man now
owns the handsome Bible, also the prayer-book,
also the wife. For just as the minister had lost
patience and was leaving, the belated couple
ambled into view, and were duly joined lhe
bridegroom had left his pipe on. the mantel, and
had had to go back for it.
** * *
Vernon band in the Gardens has been
attracting large crowds lately. Some very pretty
costumes are to be seen there, and look at their
best with a background of trees »nd flowers....
Presentation to Mr. A. C. Hobart, late traffic fore-
man at Redfern station, on 27th ult. Hold watch
and purse of sovereigns Bazaar in the Redfern
Town Hall, in aid ot Regent-street Church, fetalis
and Btail-keepers very attractive..... Glowing ac-
counts of the Hon. lvo Bligh's wedding: dresses
described almost to a stitch, but scarcely a word of
the lady’s beauty, of which she possesses an abun-
dant share Melbourne contemporaries been
studvina under Madame Rachel: full directions
for beautifying the complexion—wear a chemical
plaster for twelve hours and a bran poultice for
another twelve hours. Has it come to this ?....
Felmongers’ annual picnic to Clontarf, and St.
Patrick s Christian Doctrine Society to Athol
Gardens, on 26th ult.; the usual routine... .All-
night service at last between Sydney and North
Shore. This will make the mashers happy.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Drapers’ Annual Picnic.. •••••• ■ ■■ —•• • • March 6.
Complimentary Picnic to Mrs. M Laughlin,
Botany Marcu o.
Balmain Amateur Dramatic Picnic March 8.
Booksellers’ Annual Picnic.... March
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nithsdale) March 14.
St. Patrick’s Day Banquet March li.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dear Belle,— lt was really a refreshing
sight to see the Masonic Hall so well filled on the
occasion of Miss Eva Thompson’s concert on
Thursday night; but there was an unpardonable
piece of neglect on the part of someone, in there
being no cloak-room opened for the ladies. This
is truly a great inconvenience to many who can
hardly avoid getting their hair somewhat tossed
before arriving at the concert room; besides, how
can one s dress be seen to advantage when one is
carrying cloaks and clouds, and sometimes liats .
But now about Miss Thompson. In her first solo,
I was disappointed to see that she did not play
without her music, for my opinion is that no per-
former can give as much expression to a piece
when playing from the text as without it. It is
impossible to have the same feeling when glaring
at the notes, and then there is always the anxiety
about the turning of the leaves. This was plainly
proved in Miss Thomcson’s playing the other
night; for whilst her first solo, although excel-
lently played, was only received with moderate
enthusiasm, in her second, played without music,
we no longer doubted her right to consider herself
equal to some of our best performers here. Her
touch is about the prettiest I have heard, especially
in her staccato movements, which are as clean and
clear as one could wish to hear. One could detect,
too, real deep musical feeling in Chopin’s Nocturne.
Miss Thompson's style is decidedly classical, and WBB
perhaps just a little beyond her audience the other
night. As a vocalist, Ido not think so highly of
her, although her style is nice and her voice
pleasing. She does not possess sufficient power
for a concert singer; but, as a teacher, I should
fancy she would be first-class, as she evidently
knows what she is about. Ido really hope she
will be successful in her profession, but there can
be little doubt but that she will. She kept us a
dreadful time waiting when it was her turn to
perform—it seemed as if she were protesting each
time. Now don’t smile, dear, at what I am going to
say—but really I like Herr Francik, simply tor the
reason that he is not too conceited to improve his
playing. His first solo, “Souvenirs de Bellini,
was exceedingly - well played, his bowing tree and
graceful, and his tone aud expression surpris-
ingly good. The prince of accompanists aided not
a little in the success of this solo. Of course, you
knoiv I mean Charlie, who, by the way, looks as
boyish as ever, despite his spectacles. Mr. Pier,
who generally sings well, was terribly out of sorts,
and hurried over “There id a flower’ just like
a school boy repeating a task which he is anxious
to get through. And he.was out ot tune, too ; I
am certain he couldn’t have been well, for I never
heard him sing badly before. Madame Marius
and Mr. Rainford were each in good voice, especi-
ally in the duet, "La ci darem.” On the whole, it
was a nice concert, and not too long.
I know, dear, you would think me very mean if
I did not tell you about some of the dresses at the
Concert; but there were so many beauties that it
is difficult to know which to describe to you.
There yvas one, however, which has been in my
mind’s eye ever since, and which I thought the
acme of good taste. A white corded silk, cut
low and round the bodice embedded in white lace
were studded the palest of pink blush roses, about
an inch apart. Soon after the concert commenced,
however, the wearer yvas mean enough to throw
her cloak over her shoulders, which hid her beau-
tiful dress entirely from our view. Miss Pedley
looked very majestic in a black grenadine dress
with old gold rib bon abouther neck. Miss Thom-
pson wore a French white broche with short basque
bodice, which looked simple and nice. There was
one young girl who, though only simply dressed in
white, was conspicuous for her beautiful hair.
Phe wore it in a thick plait, which terminated in a
hunch of wavy curls. Tne colour was a
golden, and appeared really splendid. Mr. Pier
escorted a young lady w;ho possessed a baby face,
surrounded by lair curls, and who wore a black
dress, with bright crimson waistband tied loosely
in front. A lady wearing a pale blue plush bodice
over a cashmere skirt of same colour, had her
light-brown hair taken right up from the neck
and fastened slightly on one side of the head in a
coil of tight plaits, which were surrounded by
strings of pearls. A dress of cream satin de Lyon
was very handsome, and scarlet flowers in the dark
hah- of the wearer suited her well. A lately married
sister donned pale pink brocade with lace flounces,
and blush roses in cheeks and coiffure. A Balmain
ladv of known musical ability was in pale blue silk
and deep cream duchesse lace; a blue-orbed
damseUn yvhite nun’s veiling and cardinal sash
from Manly Beach looked charming, and was so,
no doubt, in the opinion of many around her;
while her brunette sister was no less attractive in
Idnek spotted net relieved here and there yvith
sprays of cardinal flowers. An estimable suburban
Mayor and his spouse had with them their three
nice daughters, who wore, respectively, pale mauve
satin and pearls, royal blue ottoman silk and moss
rose buds, cream cashmere trimmed with poppies
and wheat-ears.
The Metropolitan Liedertafel gave a concert for
ladies and gentlemen on Friday night, in the new
Masonic Hall, which went off extremely well. It
does one good to see Herr Alpen conducting one
of his own concerts, for one can see that his heart
is in his work—and if there is anything I dislike it
is an indifferent conductor. For so young a
society the choruses were astonishingly good,
especially the opening one. The old favourite
“ Banish. O, Maiden,” was, perhaps, the weakest.
And I wonder how it is that men can never keep
from smiling when singing But kiss me to-day i
[ never yet knew it to be sung without
more or less tittering amongst the singers-/-
and this spoils it, quite. Little Brown (big Brown s
brother, 1 suppose) has a tine alto voice, which he
manages fairly well for a young boy. If he will
offiy Refrain irom straining it, it will turn into
something more than ordinarily good. Mr. Brown
sang a tenor solo very expressively, but the bass
singer was not so successful. Miss Mane bt. Clair
was at her best in “Oh, take me to thy heart
Lain/’ and obtained a decided encore. I did not
care much for Signor Bentereri’s singing, though
I can hardly tell you why. His voice, though
sonorous, seems to me to lack music and steadi-
ness, and he seems to forget that be is not on the
oneratic stage when singing at a concert. I thought
Reginald Toms foolish to allow his only piano solo
to be placed at the beginning of the second part of
the programme. He found the mistake himself,
for when about to commence, the noise ot people
comTng in and taking their seats, was most dis-
tressing Prelude after prelude he played in order
to attract their attention, but at last he dashed
into his solo in despair. It was a polonaise by
Toms-Toms pore, I think, for I remember having
seen some polonaises, &c., composed by bun. It
wa?brilliantly performed, and 1 thought Mr. Toms
made a very sarcastic bow to the audience as he
walked off the platform-as their appreciation
For continuatiou, see aeat page.)


lOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore-road,
Paddington,
14th January, 1884.
Messrs. Elliott Brothers.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks ago, I was so
severely affected with indisposition as to render
my rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain, on account of severe pains in my back ; and
I was just beginning to realise that I would have
to absent myself from my work for a time, when
a friend recommended me to try Hamburg Tea,
mentioning at the same time the benefit he him-
self had received. At the time I used it, 1 really
was not fit for my work, and yet in the course of
three or four days I was myself again, and have
not suffered since. I write this conscientiously,
for the guidance of others, and you are at liberty
to make what use you please of it.
Fours faithfully,
JNO. KELLY.
EMIL FRESE’S HAMBURG TEA.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certaia and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Colds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma, Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c„ caused by an impure state or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Scroiula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pains', and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventative against
Contagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and
Contagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood,
cleanses the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the
whole system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the
bowels in a very mild and certain way. It works
on the system generally, causing little or no dis-
comfort. It will prevent almost any disease if
used at least once a month. It restores the appe-
tite, it removes the distress caused by eating
hearty food or overloading the stomach, and will
be found effectual as a Family Remedy where a
simple purgative only is needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT
Full directions in English, French, Spanish, and
German with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, aud medicine dealers throughout
the colonies, at ONE SHILLING a packet.
Wholesale Depotfor New South WaIes—ELLIOTT
BROTHERS, Sydney.
The best and lightest are made by
Hatter, 653 George*6treet, Brickfield Hill,
O p E
R
A
Lessee
Sub-lessee and Director
Business Manager
Treasurer
HOUSE.
W. J. Wilson.
Signor E. Majeroni.
Monty Browne.
Joe Brown.
THIS AND EVERY EVENING,
Grand production in Australia of Sardou’s
greatest work,
FEDORA
FEDORA
FEDORA,
by Signor and Signora
MAJERONI MAJERONI
MAJERONI MAJERONI
Entirely New Scenery, Costumes, Appointments,
Properties, &c.
Box Plan now open at Huenerbein’s, 411 George-st.
Prices : —Dress Circle, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Pit, 2s.
Tickets at Robertson’s, next Theatre. Carriages
at 10.45.
THEATRE ROYAL.— Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrovh.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
the
WILLIAMSONS,
MISS MAGGIE MOORE & J. C. WILLIAMSON,
in
RIP VAN WINKLE !
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; bTALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 28.
ME. mm GLOVER.
TRAGEDIAN, COMEDIAN, BURLESQUE
ACTOR, &c.
“ One of the most versatile artistes on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, SYDNEY, EVERY EVENING.
SPECIAL ENGAGEMENT.
For future arrangements, Managers are
politely requested to address as above.
N.B.—Amateurs “ coached,” and pupils prepared
for the stage in all its branches.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 3rd March, 1884.
TENDERS FOR NEW PUBLIC SCHOOL
BUILDINGS.
TENDERS are invited for the erection of New
Public School Buildings, at Bullanaming-
street, Redfern.
Plans and Specification may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for New Buildings,
Bullanaming-street, Public Sohool,”must be lodged
with the Acting Under-Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o'clock a.m., on
Monday, the 31st March, 1884.
The Minister doea not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. 6d.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters or a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, in
secure cover, for Is. 6d., money order or N.S.W.
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 G.P.0.. Svdnev.
UTUMN 1884. AUTUMN 1884.
AUTUMN 1884.
HORDERN’S in PITT-STREET.
have opened out, first thing THIS
MORNING, the AUTUMN GOODS im-
ported ex reeent mail steamers.
75 CASES to begin with, splendid Goods.
Price reasonable.
Goods fashionable.
Styles for Autumn Season, 1884.
Fedora Mantles, 18s 6d, 225, 255, 30s.
Children’s Four-in-hands, 8s 9d, 10s (sd,
12s 9d, 15a.
Soudan Jacquettes, very pretty.
Dentette Relief Laces.
Venlse Lace.
Military Ornaments.
Young Ladies’ Hats, in the new Jaunty
and Dunbar shapes, 3s, 4s, ss, 6s 6d.
Normandy Collarettes.
Plush and Feather Millinery, Ladies
and Girls.
Mosquetairo .autumn Gloves.
La Mascotte Gloves, great novelty.
Autumn Hotsery in Children's, Girls’,
and Ladies’ sizes, styles, and prices
too innumerable to mention.
Berlin Wool Slippers, Cushions,
h rackets.
Boy’s Autumn School Clothing, in
1000 shapes.
Please to recollect that our address is 1
211, PITT-STREET ONLY.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
Drapers and Warehousemen.
OO L DEPARTMENT. 2
A Beautiful Assortment of Berlin. An-
dalusian, and Shetland WOOLS,
just arrived, ex JOHN ELDER.
We have a nice Lot of Colonial, AND A- 2
LUSIAN, and Berlin, at 2s lid per lb. 2
HORDERN’S in PITT-STREET. I
r|IHE PUBLIC OF N. S. WALES 2
I are respectfully informed that 2
A NEW AND VERY IMPORTANT ;
DEPARTMENT
has just been added to the 2
DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENT
Of
HORDERN’S in PITT-STREET,
viz.,
THE UPHOLSTERY AND FURNISH-
ING DEPARTMENT. ;
Carpets made to order, fitted, and laid
down
Sofas, Suit s, Couches, &c., re-eovered
The very latest designs in Gilt Cornices, .
made to fit any window
ftair Carpets, Stair Rods, &c.
Blinds and Blind Rollers to order
Cornice Poles set up complete
Verandah and Venetian Blinds made to .
order
Wide Floorcloth, in slates, brown, flora),
&c., in every width, tofitany shaped
room or hall
Office and Church Cocoa-flbre Matting,
all widths
Pillow-cases, Sheets, Curtains, Valances,
&c., made to order at my well-
known reasonable prices.
N.B.—Carpets or Upholstery Work for
the country very carefully attended to.
Parcels delivered anywhere.
The ADDRESS is
J. L. HORDERN,
- IvVvvvWj Sydney.
. k.. lol K* V kj k> Ki K* VI k> M M W W
HORDERNS
ON THE
IBriclrlieia. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
Ladies residing
Curtains. If
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it out, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
gJS
%ss
1
ff**lz*
V
3
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:
LACE CURTAINS, 20© DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. 10“ Examine carefully the engraving of our
•‘LACE CURTAINS.”
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS ,
' LACE CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. ; LACE CURTAINS |
gg?” Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
certainly was not as great as thermerits of the
performance deserved. Mr. Newton played a
violin solo pretty well; but, altogether, the audi-
ence was anything but enthusiastic. I think Herr
Alpen is just the right man in the right place few
it requires great energy and patience to drill such
a number of voices.
Now a little bit more about crinolines. I saw a
lady the other day—a decayed lady—in fact, the
lady who does our mangling—in King-street.
Now, this lady thought she would be in the fash-
ion and donned a crinoline. But, as most likely
she had had it lying by for the last twenty years,
when last they were in fashion, the sewing had
evidently become rotten. Anyhow, there was
about a yard of steel (rusty steel) trailing behind
her, whilst she trudged on in blissful ignorance.
And I saw a young ladv eating her lunch in Quong
Tart’s, and she looked even moro ridiculous than
the poor mangling woman, for she had managed,
somehow, to sit on her crinoline in such a way that
it was Plain to all what kind of boots she wore, and
even the colour of her hose —oh! if she could only
have seen herself as otheis saw her! Now, my
dear, will you wear a crinoline ?
I am afraid I have not time to tell you about the
dresses at the Metropolitan Liedertafel’s Concert,
but I must tell you that I saw several pretty caps,
but they were principally worn by elderly ladies.
One was of the finest cream lace, and almost
covered with the most beautiful carnations. But,
I liked best one of black velvet, studded all over
with tiny pearls. Young girls still wear flat-
ribbon bows for head ornaments, but I think them
most unbecoming: a flower is much prettier. The
rest of my gossip must wait till next week, as I
have come to the end of my paper. Yours,
MAB.
No, your Honor; the verdict of the jury in
that case of Walter Everett Stone is not half so
likely to shock the community as the monstrous
indecency of a system of legal procedure which
leaves it to the prosecutor to decide whether or
no a prisoner’s proposed witnesses shall be sub-
poenaed. It is always refreshing to hear of a
protest against an absurd, an inconsistent, or, as
in this case, a damned bad practioe.|
On the Association Ground, on Monday
last, elevens representing the Press and the Tele-
graph Departments played a cricket match, which
resulted in a defeat of the inkslingers by 98 runs.
During the day Mr. Walker cunningly treated the
two teams to a free lunch, which, it is needless to
say, spoiled what small chance of victory the Press
may have had. After the feed, some speechifying
was gone through in the “ you scratch my back
and fll scratch yours ” style.
Last Saturday a man fell off the Circular
Quay, and was precious near striking the “ Golden
Shoah,” when Sam Laurence master of the s. s.
Victor, pluckily threw off all his clothes, and jump-
ing into the water saved the man from drowning.
While Sam was below, some industrious individual
went through his clothes, and eased him of the
responsibility of looking after a very valuable
watch. Mr. Laurence appeared to be quite an-
noyed at this, but we can tell him he is devilish
lucky,some intelligent “mimbir av th’ foorce didn't
come along and run him in for ‘ ondacint ex-
poshure’also.”
R. I. P.
His burial took place to-day—
Why not say tombage ?
There was a hansom and a shay
With sable plumage.
Who was he ? Well, he was a man
Of genius mystic;
Well could he drain the flowing can,
Dash off the distich.
But what with vitriol and verse
His brain was burned, sirs; ’
He took a drive off in a hearse—
He’s not returned, sirs.
His body now is only clay—
Death none can shirk, sirs;
His soul has gone—where shall we say ?
To h 1, or Bourke, sirs.
Last Saturday week, a certain master
baker out West—not wholly unknown to Salva-
tion Army fame—was the proud possessor of a
well-bred wife, who combined all the beauty of a
Susanna with the giddy frivolity of a Mrs. Potiphar.
On the following Sunday, and whilst the pious
baker was listening to the floury oratory of his
Capting, and seeking that leaven we all so greatly
lmead, his frisky doe at home packed up all the
“small goods” she could And, consisting of two
children, a heap of clothing, and enough gold and
silver trinkets to stock a Pitt-street pawn-shop,
and then cleared out with the grocer’s assistant
opposite. No tidings of the gay “ surprise party ”
have yet been received, but the deserted husband
derives a great deal of satisfaction from the fact
that the loving pair didn’t take the oven and
bakery with them also. Perhaps they were pushed
for time, or had a hazy idea that matters were hot
enough without those sultry trifles.
Thus a contributor to the Narrabri
Northern Argus re hot weather diet“ To
commence the day, take two or three oranges, cut
them in halves, squeeze the juice into a glass, re-
move the pips, and drink the juice. Do this half
an hour before you eat or drink anything else. For
breakfast, as a foundation, solid wheatmeal por-
ridge, with plentiful milk and some sugar, which
may be followed by egg, toast, and cocoa without
sugar. At midday, some underdone beef or
mutton, or the same condensed into a rich teacup-
ful of broth. Oysters, crabs, and fish have spe-
cially good powers of nutrition; but the meat, or
its essence, five times a week at least, is as neces-
sary as the wheatmeal is every day. Fruit of all
kinds—grapes, pears, &o.—best before breakfast.
Pure cold water, the best dinner drink, with an
occasional glass or beer or wine for a change; in
the depressing heat of summer, the tonic principle
of the hop in good beer seems to keep fever at
bay. If the beer of wine be well diluted with
good gingerbeer, lemonade, or cold water, it helps
appetite and digestion, and does not set up any
abnormal thirst. As regards tea and coffee, the
less people drink of these the better.”
Soo Hoo Ten, Pong Lung, and Ah Wing
have been carrying the Gospel to the Chinamen of
Bathurst. At a meeting held there, all the clergy
of the place turned out. Soo Hoo preached a
powerful sermon in Chinese, from the text
“Abraham begat Isaac,” which was listened to
with profound attention by such of the young
Bathurst brethren as could draw off their thoughts
from the tempting display of pigtails, and fix tneir
minds on the higher topics of how to waylay
them on the way home. The Rev. E. Price, we are
told, “informed the Chinese that members of all
the churches had sympathised in the mission of
Soo Hoo Ten, and that Christians looked upon
Chinamen as their brethren, and they were very
anxious they should come to know and love the
one great Father, and trust in the one Saviour.”
He was followed by the Rev, Canon Blackett,
Dean Marriott, Dr. Geesie, and other brethren;
but we have not a full report of their speeches. In
its absence, however, we may fairly assume that
this brotherhood was thoroughly clinched by
references to our philanthropic introduction ißto
their native land of the salutary juice of the
poppy; the little £lO poll-tax that we and Vic-
toria and the £2O that Queensland charge to pre-
vent our beloved brethren from coming to our
bosoms; our little playful way of kicking the life
out of them on all occasions; and the present
efforts ot the Most Christian nation to introduce
the Mass into Sontay and Bacninh. We believe it
was Soo Hoo whosenthomethatthrillingte.legram
to Hong Kong that is likely to bring to our arms
more of our dearly beloved brethren. The tele-
gram ran:—
" Only last year the churches baptised nine,
Who find in hawking that it pays them fine.”
There is not much in this—but what would
you have ? The world is too small for brand-new
bizarreries to happen in it every day. You must
take your news as you take eggs, trusting to luck
that there be more fresh than stale. This iB only
a church item, anyhow, so you can read it without
damaging your play, even if you have two aces up
your sleeve and tne bowers in your lap. There
has been a religious row in a South Australian
town between one of the elders of the Presby-
terian church and the pastor. The latter, it ap-
pears, introduced unfermented wine to the com-
munion table. One of the elders supported him in
this action, another objected. There is, therefore,
a lack of Christian charity in that congregation
just at present. Probably the objecting elder is a
publican, and the other deals in the unfermented
article. Still it does seem somewhat absurd to
expect a Scotch congregation to take kindly to
weak liquor even in this way. They usually like
their piety preMy strong—with sugar, so to speak.
In fact, we might say—without being suspected of
irreverenoe, we hope—
If it were not for decorum
They would, in a body,
Prefer to commemorate there
The Last Supper, free and fair,
In a streaming jorum
Of whisky-toddy.
This may be very poor rhyme and feeble reason,
but it is quite as sensible and very nearly as pious
as these Presbyterian elders. What do they think?
Will it matter in the next world whether the
liquor they drink at the Communion-table in this
world tickled their throat as it went down or
merely wetted it? Do they think the Last Supper
was a drinking-bout, or a soda-water soiree?
These are the people who are really irreverent.
Do yon know what we think? We think that there
will be a fall in the attendance at the Lord’s Table
In that church, if the pastor persists in using un-
fermented liquor. W hy, if the Maeltay mixture
were used in this way, by bush missioneries, there
would not be a shearer in the Back-blocks who
would not be on bis way to glory in a fortnight.
This is all about a model father who was
not a husband, a model husband who was not a
father, and a model mother who was not a wife—
unless incidentally, as it were. The facts came
out in the Melbourne City Court last week. The
model lather is a most respectable man, and the
part of the city in which he used to live was men-
tioned in one of the newspapers. It was very rash
of that newspaper to do it, for the information
might have enabled some people t« guess who the
man is, and thus his ‘’influence for good” might
be seriously diminished. The other newspapers
were properly prudent, and said nothing about
where he resided, although it formed part of the
evidence in court. All the newspapers kept qui-t
about his name, however, apparently satisfied that
when they called him “a most respectable man”
they had come as near the mark as the proprieties
would permit. This model father, then, is at pre-
sent enjoying a tour through Europe. The model
mother is called Edith Short. Hal You see we
make no mouthing when it comes to naming her.
She is poor; hasn’t a ring in the world; could no
more think of taking a trip to Europe than of
dining at Government House. Her name is Edith
Short. Every newspaper chronicled that. She had
two children by the model father; but as they are
as destitute and sorrow-stricken as the mother,
there can be no offence in giving their names also.
One is called Edith and the other Lily. You see
how particular we are in such cases. Now, some
time ago, the model father spoke thus to the
model mother:—M.F.: Edith, your jaws are
getting hard; your neck is getting leathery: your
arms are getting skinny. Age is beginning to tell
on you. I belong to the bon-ton, and a man like
me wants freshness. M.M.: Ah I M.F.: But I
don’t cast y@u altogether off. You were a young
girl when I met you, long ago, and you were
pretty. I bear that in mind. And I don’t forget
the children either. I’ll allow you something for
them, but I don’t want to see you or them any
more. You’ll have to slide. M.M.: And what
shall Ido ? M.M.: Well, h’m! let me see. If I got
you a man to marry you, wouldn't that do ? Eh ?
M.M.: Ah I And in time the model father found a
dissolute blackguard of a drunken engine-litter,
named—ah, yes, we can name him, too, why not ?
Thomas Short, and this colloquy took place :
M.F.: Still drunk, Tom I T.: Yis, sir; sdrunk as
blazes. M.F.: Short of money? Eh? Want a lift?
T.: Do, your honour. M.F.: Would you marry a
woman if I paid you ? T.: Any number of women,
your honour. MF.; With two children? T.:
Hundreds, your honour. Gimme the money. It’s
all the shame. And Edith became Mrs. Short, and
the model father advanced money, and ascended
to his high respectable position, and his influence
for good remained very great. And Thomas
drank right ahead, and blasphemed and kicked
Edith, and then did a good thing. He swallowed a
feed of whisky, and died. And here now, while
dirty Thomas was in his grave, and the model
father was touring Europe and exercising his in-
fluence for good, poor Edith, made lean by the
model father, and kicked and bruised by the model
husband, was found last week lying in an old house
in a lane off Little Bourke-street, a ruined,
drabbled, bleared and blighted wretch. So she
was haled before the City court, and the court
sent the children to theßeformatoryfor seven years*
and sentenced the outcast Edith to one year’s im-
prisonment. Drop, curtain I Let us have a clown
in the next act*!
Amongst the junior cricketers on Satur-
day last, R. Harper and Co. defeated Beale and Co.;
Coate’s team defeated Alcock Bros.; the Eastern
Suburbs and Orientals played a draw, some big
scoring being indulged in; the Surry United made
easy work of the Orleans ; the Clifton and Ultimo
clubs played a draw, much in favour of the former;
and, at Botany, the Britannias defeated the local
club by 28 runs.


John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, 36 O’Connell-
Street, Sydney. JSP” Agents for the purchase
of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvest-
ing Machinery, Agricultural Implements, &c. No
commission charged for buying. Agents for
the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-bred
Stock.*
Woman Items
trickery, fraud, vice, as political forces already
existing, have been reinforced by weakness, indif-
ference, ignorance, cowardice, and imbecility. As
a consequence, public morals are laid low, and
practicable plans for reform lack intelligent sup-
port ” Wonder what that “ polished deloodhur,”
the jayniel Dan O’Connor, thinks of that lot ?
The Hobart correspondent of a Sydney
journal is in agony over the decadence of Tas-
manian beauty. Now, we think this must be the
old story of sour grapes ; for it’s not so verv long
since we thought them so charming, that five
hours after landing on the isle of beauty we were
tempted to become as great a polygamist as sage
King Solomon was at his best. What we object to
in Tasmanian beauty is the vast area it takes to
support it. We are quite afraid to foot up the
surface each feminine Tasmanian foot takes up.
Mr. Mirls, the Victorian railway man, is
dying for an efficient spark-catcher. Now, Miss.
Some ladies in Melbourne anxious to start
a social purity society. Will wear badges in street.
Unnecessary this. Why not wink ?
The most married woman of the age lives
in Saoramento. She is only 25, and has already
taken unto herself ten husbands. How many will
she tot up at 50 ?
The Princess of Wales has written to her
sistor, the Czarina, asking her to intercede in be-
half of the Russian political prisoners who are so
brutally treated by the will of the Emperor.
A marriage is arranged between Mr. W.
Howard Russell, of Crimean celebrity, and the
first great war correspondent, and the Countess
Antoinette Malvezzi, of Ferrara. It s never too
late to m-arry.
“ Stella,” in writing of the brilliant s<dons
of Paris, mentions that of the Princess Mathilde
“so renowned under the Empire.” “ Stella ” for-
gets to mention in what pschuttic ways it was that
the Mathilde earned her renown—or, rather, her
infamous notoriety. But ” Her Imperial High-
ness” is rich. Yes.
A ’Frisco critic has broken out in a fresh
place, anent Mrs Langtry—of whom we have heard
before. He says “ She is prettier and more grace-
ful than a picture 20 by 30 inches with three red-
wood trees in the foreground, a rumed mill, and a
glorious sunset lighting up the forest, in the back-
ground. Her features are more delicate than the
outlines of the young gum-tree, and more pictur-
esque than a deserted loggers’ camp by moon-
light.” He was trying to make a wood-cut of her,
don’t you see 1
Mrs. Meldon sued in the English courts for
restitution of conjugal rights. She was such a ter-
magent, it was proved, that life was unbearable in
her society, and the lesser-half pleaded that these
Meldon moments were too much for him. But
they don’t constitute a bar under British law, and
he was told that he must either restitute or go to
gaol. We forget which he did, but we know what
we would do-go into bachelor quarters and play
“nap” with the turnkeys. But then, you know,
we’re used to it.
The marriage of Oscar Wilde to an Irish
young lady of considerable fortune is prognosti-
cated br those who know. The chosen of the
msthete is young, beautiful, has 20,000 golden
recommendations, and is an orphan. This spoils
it—we should liae to have seen Oscar with a
mother-in-law. It seems about time he settled
down; criticism is getting too hard on him. When
he was lecturing in Ireland on the ' House beau-
tiful,” they wanted to know if he was travelling
for a furniture warehouse.
Augustus, who has long been “paying
attentions” to Eleanor: “Darling-may I call
you so?—oh, tell me ” (Eleanors brother—
enfant terrible— rushing in); “Oh, I say, Mr. D—
do you know what “ stringin’onadambore
means?” Augustus, sulkily: “No, I don t.
Why?” E.T.: "‘Why, I heard dad tell mamma,
last night, after you left so late, that you were a
* dambore,’ and then Nelly there said she was
only ‘stringin’ you on,’ so you see I thought you
might be able te tell me. Eh?”
Lucy H., of Hobart, grinds out eight verses
in a last week’s Evkn’ Noozk headed “Thoughts.”
She winds up:—
“ Oh, life! oh, death! be what you may,
Great hidden meanings in you lie.
Of life, not death, be thou afraid,
Oh, choose to die!”
Die, Luov, by all means, you ought to, after writ-
ing this, whether you chooso it or not. J asmanian
girls are noted for their feet, and the feet m your
verses, Lucy, are no exception to the rule. Write
another and die, Lucy.
An old love of Alfred de Musset has just
died in Paris. Madame de Vanderilied was the
daughter of Mdlesville, Scribe’s eollaborateur. She
was two and twenty when De Musset,-devoured,
as he believed, by a passion such as no man had
ever felt before, made her an offer of marriage.
Mdlle. de M<Uesville admired De Musset s poetry,
but doubted the stability of his passion, .and re-
fused him. She afterwards married a Dutchman.
She was fltty-seven when she died, but had lost
little of tho youthful beauty which had captivated
De Musset. Her beaux yeux noire were as brilliant
at the last as when her poet-lover raved about
them.
A new fashion in umbrellas has come into
vogue at Nice, and being a nice fashion will pro-
bably spread. It is to have them composed of-or
rather roofed in by—natural llowers. The one wo
saw, when we were there last week, was built of
Bweet-smelling Parma violets, with a border of
iessamine to imitate lace ; silk lined it, and a
bamboo handle llirted it in the eyes of the dudes
of the Rialto. Another fashion—introduced by
the ladies of Paris, out of compliment to the l re
sident’s sporting proclivities—is to have a silver
duck’s head as an umbrella handle. If we had to
decorate the grip end of our gingham to force a
oompliment for Gussy, we’d have a cochin-china.
The keeper of a popular hotel, which was
particularly infested by loving couples in their
most objectionable state, thought it right, useful,
and justifiable to address a newly married couple
thus: - “ Going to stay here a day or two ? ’ “ Yes!
“ Well, I want to say a word to you. I don’t want
any ducky-deary nonsense around my house. I
want no squeezing rands on the balconies, or
feeding each other at the table." The bridegroom
let his arm fall from his bride’s waist in a slow and
painful manner, and the manager continued:
l* The first time you call her peaches and cream,
or she calls you her darling, out you go!” “ Y-yos,
sir.” “She’s no sweeter than ten thousand other
girls, and you are no more a darling than I am,
and I won’t stand love-sick nonsense.” He walked
away with that.
The disadvantage of pattens in Japan.
Young ladies with handsomely lacquered pattens
are the quarry of a certain class of Jap. thieves.
These gentry know exactly at what places
pleasure-seeking damsels are wont to stop and
gaze at and to inspect, and there they station them-
selves with two or three pairs of very old pattens
in their sleeves. So soon as I the young lady, is
sufficiently absorbed by the view, she feels some-
thing tickling her feet, whereupon she withdraws
the other foot from its patten and applies its toes
to tho irritating spot. By and bye, that foot also
demands similar treatment, and ultimately the
damsel walks away re-shod. Each time she uses
one foot to scratch the other, an old worn-out
patten is substituted for the dainty article from
which the foot had been withdrawn.
Woman, as a politician, seems to be a perfect
fraud across in the land of peanuts and presidents.
Tne first reform the girls started when their right
to vote was declared was a reform in their jackets,
the old, rakish-looking “ Derby ” being discarded
for the “ Plumper,” which contained, amongst
other things, a large pocket in the tail end to hold
the electoral roll, and a small breast fob to hold
their tickets. Many only voted once or twice, just
to see how the sensation felt, and many, who
couldn’t trust to their husbands to do the washing,
deolined to vote at all. Speaking on these panta-
loonical politicians, the New York Times declares:
—“ By the enfranchisement of women, corruption,
LIFE INSURANCE.
MRS. M'SWINNEY (to Insurance Official): “Wull, sor, me ould man is dead, an’ I jist
come to git me thray hunder punds, like ye paid to Mrs. Maloney when her man fell
off the lather along wid a hod o’ bricks, an’ broke his neck entoirely. "
INSURANCE OFFICIAL: (naturally): “But, madam, did the late Mr. M'Swinney have
a policy?"
MRS. M'S.: "No, sor; he had a fit of Delayrium Tremedous, an it kitt him dead as if
he'd had the policy for years."
[Tedious and painful explanation follows.]
We’ve hunted round a whole day to feast our eyes
on something under No. 8, and gone home dis-
gusted and weary of life.
Oh, one only does his duty
When he lauds Tasmanian beauty ;
But, if this scribe e’en must “ scoot he
Must say they are awful “ booty.
“ Clara Belle,” who is, as the world knows,
not a woman easily shocked, professed some such
feeling the other day on hearing a remarkable ex-
pression fall from the lips of a fair, delicate, po-
celain-looking girl in the vestibule of the Opera.
Someone stepped on her train, and the young lady
at once said—we put it with phonetic exactness
“ Goddlemity!” K But," says U na in the Argo-
naut, “the other day, a young lady with a.pale,
rapt, angelic sort of face, occupied the adjacent
divan to mine in the Turkish bath. One hundred
A chap, who was lonenome and glum,
Said, "I thruk I shall study the drum,"
He pounded away for a year and a day,
Till he flually bad to Succumb
and forty degrees of heat did not take the perfect
pallor from her face or the rings out of her hair.
While I was admiring her as one of the pale, mgn-
bred type of girls, she went out into the massage-
room to cool for a moment, and, slipping upon t° e
wet marble, fell prone upon the floor. With the
readiness of habit, she exclaimed: Hellity-devilty-
cussedy-damnl’ It was very complete. Indeed,
1 do not think, at this moment, of any substantial
addition that the young lady could have made to
it.”
This is what a satirist says of his lady-love,
when he saw her “dancing in a ball.”—“Around
her snowy brow were set £3O in the shape of dia-
mond Hakes of light; with the gentle undulation
of her bosom rose and fell £5OO in a necklace of
brilliants- Her fairy form was invested in £lO, re-
presented by a slip of azure satin, and this was
overlaid by £3O more iu two skirts of white lace.
Tastef u*y down eaoh side of the latter were laid
£1 15s. worth, which so many bows of snowy
ribbon had come to. The lower margins of the £3O
skirts were edged with £ll additional, the value of
some fringe a-quarter of a yard in depth. Her
taper waist, taking zodo and clasp together, I cal-
culated to be confined by £3O. Her delicately
rounded arras—the gloves of creamy kid being
added to the bracelets which encircled her little
wrists —may bo said to have boon adorned with
£33, and, putting the silk and at the lowest
figure, I should say she wore £3 upon her feet.
Thus, altogether was this thing of light, this crea-
ture of loveliness, arrayed from top to toe, exclu-
sive of little sundries, in about £636 or there-
abouts.”
The Queen has eight Ladies of the Bedchamber,
at. £5OO each-£4OOO. One of these ladies has to
wait on Her Majesty-that is, to keep her company
only (for the picking up of a handkerchief or a pin
would be considered infra dig. by all of’them) for
a fortnight at a time; each has a turn about three
times in the course of the year. Were they needy
persons, it would be quite proper to pay them,
even for their six weeks’service; but, belonging
to powerful and wealthy families, they ought to
be ashamed of making themselves, virtually,
domestic servants, by taking wages for their
attendance. These titled servants are the
Dowager Duchess of Athole, the Dowager Duchess
of Roxburghe, the Dowager Marchioness of Ely.
Lady Churchill, Lady Waterpark, the Countess of
Erroll, Lady Abercromby, Lady Southampton.
There are, moreover, Extra Ladies of the Bed-
chamber—viz., Viscountess Clifden, the Countess
of Gainsborough, the Countess of Mayo, the
Countess of Caledon, the Duchess of Bedford-all
in the receipt of wages, probably, though only
supernumeraries in doing nothing’. There are
also eight Maids of Honor at £l5OO each £A00; also
members of the nobility, who work just as hard.
Here is a picture drawn by Truth of a
remarkable mother and daughter in Pans. At a
children’s party, the queen of the fete was a Rus-
sian girl of 16, Princess Helen M., grand-daughter
of a poet, and a most original girl. No wonder;
since she never went to school, and spent her
childish years roving over Southern and Central
Europe with a Kalmuck mother. This lady was in
her youth precocious. As a child, she learned all
through Homer, Dante, Shakespeare, Milton, and
the Bible ; and ran her head against all the new
philosophies of the day. Her favourite was Her-
bert Spencer. Rich, and full of quaint views, she de-
termined to seo the world as it is, and tor four years
she travelled camping out to th a larg e c&ravan,
and scarcely slept under a roof. With her daug hter
Helen, three sons, a squadron of splendid horses,
tents, camp furniture, and loads of books—"their
only link to civilisation—they travelled con-
tinuously, the mother teaching: ner daughter five
European languages, which she speaks fluently*
and tne boys also studying. Then she re-entered
the pale ct civilisation, and lives in a mansion in
great state near Paris with her family. Brought
up in such a style, it is no wonder that the Princess
Helen is an original girl.
HER LEGACY - .
“Her legacy!” ah. luring phrase.
How it my swift love caught.
And pictur’d those sweet naughty ways
By bright gold to be bought!
What, though her hair was one bright blaze,
Her nose a gorgeous snub,
Her figure quite enough to craze
The most phlegmatic “hub ?”
“ Her legacy!” that was the veil
Which hid alt faults from sight—
Wealth makes “ a beauty ” without fail
Of the most horrid fright.
So, when I heard friends whisper low,
“ Her mother left her all,”
I swore I’d collar straight that dot
And herself, in one haul.
We wed. Next morn, frantic, bereft
Of peace for evermore,
I knew all her the mater left
Was —the world's champion snore!
The duties of the Maids of Honour were
thus originally defined In the “ Ordinances for the
Government of the Queen’s Household,” issued by
Charles 1., in 1625, shortly after his marriage with
Henrietta o? France “The Queen’s Maids ot
Honour are to come into the Presence Chamber
before eleven of the clock, and to go to prayers, and
after prayers to attend until the Queen be set at
dinner. Again, at two o’clock, to return into the
said Chamber, and there to remain Until supper
time. And when they shall be retired into their
chamber, they admit of no man to come there;
and that they go not at any time out of the Court
without leave asked of the Lord Chamberlain,
Vice-chamberlain, or Her Majesty. And that the
Mother of the Maids see all these orders concern-
ing the Maids duly observed, as she will answer to
the contrary. And if she find any refractoriness
in those who should obey, that she acquaint the
Lord Chamberlain therewith.” The present duties
of the Maids are nothing like so severe, three
months out of the twelve being their term of
attendance, with considerable modification as to
hours, etc. The screw is £3OO per annum. Prece -
dent prescribes that none but the daughter o::
granddaughter of a Peer can hold a Maidship.
Ladies grow old sometimes. This is a pitv,
It would be so much better if they wouldn’t. Th :>
world would look so much nicer, and men would
feel so much happier. But ladies are obstinate °
Unless they are let grow old they will die. That’s
nearly as sad. A long time ago we saw a lady who
grew old. She felt it very strange. She became
religious. She had to do something to help her to
forget. Young men didn’t ogle her any more.
They left off coming up under the window and
singing “ 800-o-o-tiful Sta-a-ar ! They didn’t
send her any more pink letters with Cupids in the
corners. And old men didn’t sit on the garden-
roller and tell her to speak on. and forget the
dinner-bell while listening to her merry prattle.
They didn’t any more. If she wanted to go any-
where, she found all the young men had prior
engagements, and when she rounded up an old
man and got himjfairly fixed in a corner, his ears
stood straight out all the time. He was listening
for the first tinkle of the bell, or anything, for an
excuse to bolt. She became very religious. But
she wouldn’t have wanted to become that way
only she was obstinate. Ladies oughtn’t to be
obstinate. They ought to die. Then they wouldn’t
have to become religious like the lady we knew a
long time ago. It makes us sorry to think of her.
Poor thing, she was obstinate !
Miss Thackeray (Mrs. Riohmond Ritchie)
in “A Book of Sibyls” discourses, inter alias, of
Mrs. Barbauld nie Aikin, whom Southey called “ a
fatidical spinster” because (in anticipation of
Macaulay) she had mad© a youth “ from the Blue
Mountains or Ontario’s Lake,” play the part of
the New Zealander in moralizing over the ruins of
London. Coleridge said of Mrs. Barbauld: “ She has
freat acuteness, very great, yet how steadily she
eeps it within the bounds of reason.” Johnson,
the bear, said she was only “ fit to suckle fools
and chronicle small beer;” but she returned him
something truer than he gave when she told him
he was “ a Christian and man about town, a philo-
sopher, and a bigot acknowledging life to be miser-
able, and making it more miserable through
fear of death.” As for a fear of death, Mrs. Bar-
bauld had none. Madame D’Arblay used to de-
clare that she repeated the Barbauld’s pathetic
“ Ode to Life ” every night before she went to
sleep. Mrs. Barbauld was no namby-pamby writer
of tne goody-goody school. “It may be doubted,”
says the Athenaeum, whether any other English
poetess, with the exception of Mrs. Browning, has
reached so high a water-mark as has Mrs. Barbauld.
Her marriage with Rochemont Barbauld, whose
mind had once been unhinged, was brought about
by her fear that if she threw him over he would
become crazy again!
A man who takes an advice, and follows it
right through, often comes out at the other end
and asks “ Where’s that man that gave me that
advice ?” If the man that gave the advice is dead,
there sno breach of the law. Whyte Melville tells
men about to marry to be sure to marry a widow.
His reasoning on it is striking. A maiden, he
argues, knows nothing about a real man, but is
full up of an ideal one. She believes that a man
is good and great and truthful, and sober and lov-
ing, and ever so much. Now, no real man comes
up to that. Consequently, when Robert marries
her, she is disillusioned. Robert can’t help it.
However he tries, he can’t lie up alongside that
ideal without locking a fraud. On the other hand,
the widow knows what a man is. Say he has been
called Roger. Well, Roger has broken her in. He
has knocked that ideal to splinters, and when she
thinks of a man now, it is a healthy, real man that
is in her mind. It is Roger. That’s the advantage
of marrying a widow. Robert, who stood no
chance of a show when compared with the ideal
man, as likely as not can give a few points to
Roger, and beat him. So it was that James was
reasoned over by Whyte Melville. James was a
practical man, and at once proceeded to make use
of the instruction. The neighbourhood was badly
supplied with widows, but he was industrious. He
went around them. “ Mrs. Blankum,” said he, and
he warbled along according to Cocker. But Mrs.
Blakum didn’t want a man. “ Mrs. Caxton,” said
he, with more Cocker. But Mrs. Caxton didn’t
want a man either. “ Mrs. Damper,” said he, still
working in Cocker. But he failed again. “ Well,”
said he, “ the advice is good, but is hard to fit in.
There’s only Mrs. Flaxum now. Her deceased was
the ugliest, stupidest, dirtiest old fellow about. I’ll
try her. Mrs. Flaxum,” said he, and he shot off all
Cocker. Ha !it was right. Off they went. In a
month after James sat in the fork of a tree, and
asked “Where’s that man that gave me that
advice? It is right, on the hypothesis that a
woman can be pleased. But the hypothesis is
itself wroog. She can’t. And it is far better fora
man to feel that he falls short of an ideal than of an
old fogey like Roger. Besides, it enables a man to
try to be like a maiden’s ideal, but it’s the deuce
of a sorry thing trying to worry after a likeness
to the deceased Roger. I’ll not consult Whyte
Melville next time. No fear I” And then he
stopped, for he heard a voice crying “ James ! Ah,
dear dead Roger never left me this way, moping
by myself. He was a man ; fee was !”


W. E. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
i. 4
m
vW
ir-rr^i
SSSnSssag
-.-r^-&-’ZZrr'
EASY TERMS SYSTEM S? INSTRUMENT.
OZSO-.A-ZTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
I/If Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
W. H. PALIIXTO,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
IV, MED, and HARDWARE HITS,
397 GEORGE STREET,
M and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Eounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES*
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and HoistiDg, Horizontal, and
V ertical Fixed.
MACHINERY.
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
Screwing
WOOII-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws. Genera
J oners and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
8 »’ D u ou „ blc ’ a „ ud^ p,e Vur ™Z Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers. Horse
Rakes, Reapeis and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Machines.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Builders’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Wooden ware, Leathers and Furnishings. Varnishes and
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized. Corrugated
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists. ’
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDAjLE AND CO..
337 Seorga Street, Sydney.
Abraham's Pills
(DANDWLIOIY),
THE GREAT MVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. iV'c all suffer more
or loos from livor complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling tbeir functions. Bet
the liver in order toy taking the abov.3 remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach tyill unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
®he true invigorator. If your vital forces are
depressed, if you have a feeling of general Laasi-
'tuoo and weakness, or a presentiment of ooming
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. To
obviate all those symptoms there is no remedy bo
sure and certain as
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
irame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by mag.c. '
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
As there are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM’?. I
PILLS. See that each box, by whomsoever solr U
bears the inventor’s name and trade mark. The I
Lab natiry,
484 George Street, Sydney.
SHOUT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
T ITOIA*D’B S H °RT HORN BOURBON.-The
JLI orink of the army, navy, the clubs, And the
American gentlemen; will booh be the leading
bevenyue in Australia; it haa no rival; theoftener
you tr;» bt the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG ft CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
EXHIBI
11
HKSa
BJ
14 and 16 Spring 1 Street,
Sydney,
Have alw ys in STOCK, for BALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
HAItTHENWA ft E,
WINES, BEERS, and SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS” 1
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’B
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’B
Scbnanr»s ard Geneva.
A. MELVIN and SONS*
Edi/i I>uLg a Pale We.
PAPERHANGING S!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSER r PAI'fflRS,
CEILING O ENTREB,
figur: as, scenes, &o.
Imported by;
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STREET (Oppot ite Hunter-st.)
PAINTERS’ & DECORATORS ’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Pain ts, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Gold U >af, &c.
P. KIR 13 T,
From the late Mr. James C 'urtis,
TT xi. dertaliker,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP 81 ’MEETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXEOE CCD.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ a£ the late
(16) 3
—by
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen
Manager for over ten (10) years.
rears; also,
EURE
KA
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
BT THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer than the Finest,
The Tobacco of the Jtge !
DESTINED TO ECLIPSE AND SUPERCEDE
ALL OTHER BRANDS.
The ot y Tobacco combining’ Excellence of < Quality
with Economy in Prioe.
@T Each PLUG is STAMPED with the word
EUREKA.” Smokers see that you obtain it.
Take no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
Sajwoll’s Toto Co., Lin.
AT THE EAGLE WORKB,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
Ani orq be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse,
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will be used by every-
body as soon as its merits becomo known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Act of Parliament, to pro-
tect the public against spurious and worthless
‘mitatfoaa.
J? oBE It T BUTCHER & CO.
(Late William Lons),
WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HAUL, SYDNEY
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
■- H. ARIELL & GO.’S
c,„. . AGENCIES.
* Aki firm's prize Biscuits, compris-
jinrf a iwi ty oj 12 kinds— Canterbury, Normanby,
Infant’s Ennrt ak «“’H- Pi W Mincemeat.
nS si2? d, < Self-raising: Flour, Treacle and
Rvn>? 0 U w' m aIJ casks, and bottles. ..
Pn«H T i‘tQ?i^w lri, j S ol7 s M portor v >otonan Oatmeal,
n!, i l !w l n,’.^ nd sl %#re«He«lFlour, in 601 b. bags,
ti N ’A Pl L rtlws ■ 8 orize assort,eo Contec-
derSTn^u’Li ■**'^ o, ’ s P rizo Baking: Pow-
,l.rfmi vH’.- 'MktJura.. U. Whittington and Co.’s
°r£ r * ani8 ’ Owo-ants, Figs, Paper Bags, and
Teneral Iro visions. .. Victoria Lion Preserving
'oonTNsod ST' 1 M , 8 !? l tod ’ ,ai " B Scandinavian
uondeNsed MiUc—<Gold Medal Brand,
343 & 345 KENfvsTREET, near King-st., Sydney.
G l «ntSX’ n. S&VKRSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Oilbeyß Old W into Jamaica Bum,
nnsiit? .!^S° D mme,K ' ed 118 boin K <>* the highest
qualitjjaad superior to any imported.
TlfCKsSlt A: CIO., Sole Agents,
3W George-street, Sydney.
Fosier ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
■
%
£
mmmsm-
£
m
©
t :
as
m
py
' BASB PALE AT. IT.
Tfee BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE '
MERCHANTS. w
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS. >
MOULTON’S
FRUIT MLLS PU W» T Positively cured by MOULTONS
1,1 nuns. We mean cured, not merely relieved aud
PFPSTA ™! NE f S ’T,?^ ent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
L E q ™ A > Promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH
THE BLOOD I,I Th?’ pf Ulat °i the BOWELS, and PURIFY
known B rS vS Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
They areas ncarTv (n ]^ e of l 1 Extract cf Fruit).
cy are aa near ’y Perfect as it is possible for a Pill to be.
Sold Everywhere, Price Is.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PIUS
v
f
%
ma#
-BEHEAD STOUT.-This favourite brana
nf Bel f cted yrtto ffreat care from the
aausaasfsa"
“iTTIILL'Ico! 4 M^ n P t 5 OOU^",rr " 1 ' < >'"-
TONIC NERVINE
REGISTERED.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
voup and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion. Loss of
Appetite, Liver and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &c. By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once removes all craving for Alcohol. By its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising elements, MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE
nourishes and gives vigour to the whole system.
Price, 4s. fid. Sold everywnere. Sole Proprietors
MARSHALL BROTHERS. M.P.S., Pharmacists.
104 and 106 Market-street, ne^tUydePark, Sydney"
ILB,—AU imitation* illegal,


COPPER-COLOURED.
I bav© been afflicted with a troublesome skin
disease, covering- almost completely the upper
part ot my body, causing my skin to assume a
copper-coioured hue. It could be i übbed off like
dandruff, and at times causing intolerable itching
and the most, intense fullering*. I have blood
puritiers, pi Is, and other advertised remedies, but
experienced no relief until I procured the Cuxi-,
ciuha Kemkdiks, -which although used carelessly
and irregularly, cured me, allaying that terrible
itching, and restoring my skin to its natural
eoiour. I am willing to make affidavit to th©
truth of this statement.
Milan Mich. g, (*, BUXTON*
The Tonquineseare the people of all others
to he most envied at the present time. When
their sympathies are with the " Black Flags,” the
French reoonnoitering parties look in upon them,
loot their villager, and hang a few score of their
loading citizens. When they declare for the “tri-
colour,” tiie pirates pay them a visit, burn their
hovels, impale their young men, and carry tho
women off to the hills. Nextto being an Egyptian
fellah, with the privilege of getting a spear as
largo as a snade through your vitals in the Soudan,
We would elect to be a Tonquinese.
Mi«s Lydia Poet, having gained a doctor’s
degree in law, was refused permission to practice
in the Italian Courts. Among the curious reasons
for refusing her, the Judges averred that it would
lie displeasing for a woman to have to treat with
questions that dee ncy forbade inon even discuss-
ing in her presence—that the sight of a toga over
the whimsical dress which fashion compels women
to wear would be ludicrous—and that, whenever a
decision was given lor a prisoner who had been
defended by a pretty female advocate, the Judges
would be exposed to suspicion. We quite coincide
with the last reason; for we have known Judges
exposed to “suspicion” even when there was no
female advocate in the case.
A paper down South makes the amende
honorable to the Doan of Melbourne for having
lately misquoted him. “The force of absurdity
could no lurther go than to infer the neccsssity of
an intelligent author from the perfection of any-
thing.” That was how tho Dean was reported.
The paper now says that nonentity should have
been whero necessity is. and, regretting Us error,
declares that the meaning of the sentence will be
now "diametrically opposite.” Hardly that. But
it would take some fencing to set the point right
out. But on homely grounds it may be asked; Is
not a nonentity subjectively a necessity? Think
of Hie nonentities you know. Do not they all
believe they are necessities ? And does not sub-
jective necessity presuppose some kind of objec-
tive necessity ? There I
A new Paris craze is drinking milk, and
rnilkshops are springing up in all directions. And
here is another, just mischievously naughiy
enough to please the fair Parisiennes. it is
tableaux vivants. You see, in tableaux a well-
formed woman can allow the public satisfactory
proof of her symmetry more readily than she can
by the most extreme system of dieollitage which
even this lax era allows. So, one lair dame poses
as Esmeralda, and shows her legs ; another is
Salome, with bare white ankles, and with eyes
peering from under a jetty matted wig. A beauti-
ful girl, ouly fresh from a convent, exposed her
chief advantages in Greuze's "Cruche by
a most provokingly cut corsage. And a notorious
society belle created enthusiasm by an entire dis-
play, usPhcedra, of la ligoe de la hanche, which is
usually, iu deference to conventionalism, partly
disguised, though possibly euhanoed, by the
drapery of her paniers.
Sir James Hanneu, who, in virtue of his
immense experience as a divorce Judge, may be
assumed to know something of ladies, has laid
down some curious axioms regarding tho dangers
of dallying with the fair. If you sit with a lady
alone iu a drawing-room, there is no nobd for sils-
picion unless you have kissed h6r elsewhere. But
if you sit with her in a bedrooth, it is suspicious,
even if you have never kissed her elsewhere, if,
however, you “romp” with the lady, her char-
acter is lost. This is all deeply interesting, and
it’s no doubt useful to know exactly how far you
can go without giving cause for suspicion; but
it's our opinion—founded also on an extensive ex-
perience in this sunny clime—that the Australian
girl does not give herself permanently away to a
fellow without knowing a little about his style
beforehand. She’s not a nairpin of that sort. And
if the ordinary metheds of young people's relaxa-
tion are to be stopped on the ground of suspicion
—well, there’s going to be a dull market for wed-
ding rings.
The extension of 1 he franchise promised
by Gladstone to the workmen of England is fiercely
opposed by the aristocrats. An aristocrat writing
to tho Times, describes a holiday be spent among
tho lower orders. He found them very drunk,
and exclaims, “Are these men to be our future
rulers?” Thereupon a London paper observes,
“ What is the character of our present rulers?
There is tho Duke of Marlborough, whose cow-
ardly, ruffianly, brutal treatment of his own
wife, and seduction of his friend’s, became matters
of public notoriety in the Divorce Court. There
is the premier Bari of England, Shrewsbury, who
eloped with another man’s wife. There is”—&c.
&c. These are fair enougti specimens of the argu-
menlaad homiuetn, but in a succeeding r.aragraph
the point at issue is met conclusively. “Workmen
who are drunkards cannot rise to power in the
system of the futuie, while wile-beaters, adul-
terers, profligates, and rowdies of the Divorce and
roilce Coui ts, become legislators under the pre-
sent system.” That is just the difference.
There is a controversy going on in England
as to whether, if a man smokes, his wife should
not also have a light to smoke. We should say
his is a matter of private taste. Some of our
wives smoke, and some don’t. We care little what
tney smoke, so long as they don’t smoke the hash.
Hut how do wo like to kiss them afterwards ? WelJ,
that (lepends a good deal upon the tobacco thov
have been using. We smoke ordinary plug in a
«, r iS„iSi , ?^V ol lu Be ves - ex °ept when we are writing
nuidrigals to the moon, and then we smoke gum-
whinh”tiUna , < ! ut of a meerschaum,
which killed three previous .owners before it got
properly coloured. Beard of Beelzebub ! what
does it matter if all the women in the world
smoked ? They had better do ibis than sit in each
or I Vmn W ovcr each other s back
I»*t baekb i t J n ‘ ? bcigbhours and talking
about the next tea-meeting, <«r whoso babvhas the
a v nd ir W *a oBe J he whooping-cough. Let
them smoke if they please. We don’t care. We
only draw thte line at chewing. WV? really must
say we think it is not ladylike to fhew.
M. de it Artel, the husband of Madame la
Comtessd do Martel, alias “Gyp” (under which
nofti she wrote the daringly unclean “Autourdu
itairiage has commenced an action against a
Parisian photographer for insulting his wife by
publishing her portrait in an illustrated paper.
In England, great ladies with Grecian profiles
scrambles for publicity, thinking it an honour.
In France, graml (lames who are not above offend-
ing decency by the publication of a series of the
grossest double-ent&ndres shrink from the idea of
their facial identity, so to speak, being unveiled
in the public ways. Thus do customs diffei. As
the poet sings—
“ Different peoples has different opinions:
Some like horchids and some likes inions.”
THE MEANEST FEELING.
To you we are now appealing,
Young men—come, your answer give:
Can you tell us the meanest feeling
That a man may possess and live ?
Well, the case in a word dismissing,
You feel most deucedly small
When the old man catches you kissing
The ugliest daughter of all.
Nearly eve ryone knows that Hie spark-
ling, clever pi. ty of “Friends” wrs written by
Victorien Sardo *• Well, his “ Divor?ons ”is not
unlike it, and h as one of the funniest plots you
ever heard of. t 'ount de Candale is married to a
charming girl, b Ut it was, like many French
unions, merely a business marriage—the estates
had to be united. t>he regards him before long as
a social tyrant, and tails in love with a gay cava-
lier. Then comes the funny part. Tke Count
calmly recites to hi l charmingly intractable wife
all the circumstances ; they do not love each other,
of course, out why n< ttlook at tbiDgs philosophi-
cally, and at least be courteous, and not commit
scandals ! lie, with a hiw bow, would be the last
to offend so lovely awi tfe- Then, leaving- Madame,
he goes to her cavalit ar, d says airily: “Mon
ami, you admire my v ’flfo, think her charming.
Then you are quite rig htt, I admire her myself.
But you shouldn’t envy 1 W- No husband is a man
to be eDvied. To prov. ’ this, we will change
E laces. I will present m r wife to you. If you
avemether before, rent w the acquaintance; if
not, begin it. I feel, in si a matter, I can rely
on the tidelity of my wife, . Ufd on the delicacy of
my friend.” This novel proceeding tobs the
Intrigue of all its charm to, * both wife and cava-
lier; the wife, furious, dema. ids a divorce lor such
treatment, but before all tl. e deeds are settled,
she first becomes secretly im crested, next falls in
iove with her philosophical l \usband, and finally
to him altogether. '
One of the strong suits of the Salvation
“Jlarmy” in Melbourne is the persistency and
fervour with which the leading spirits pray for the
daily Press of the city. We always thought that
the Melbourne daily Press was past praying for,
but the “ Rarmy ” tackles very bad subjects in-
deed, and hence tho repeated supplications to the
Throne of Grace for the regeneration of Vic-
torian journalists. Yet the fastidious scribe some-
times resents these well-meant, if not too deli-
cately expressed, exhortations to turn from tho
paths of sin. For instance, when the “Harmy”
held a big pow-wow, or jubilee, or something, in
the Exhibition Building recently, Mortimer Frank-
lyn (with a “ y,” mind you) sent one of his brilliant
inkslingers to sensationalise the event in the
Evening Whiiil. The scribe—a modest youth of
tir ultra-dude typo, and got up in the daintiest
style of that species, perfumed and powdered as s
befitted a junior member ot tho British aristocracy
the possible heir to vast esta'es, and, may be, a
title—arrived on the scene just as the proceedings :
were in full swing. He announced his mission
to the doorkeeper or sentry, and before he had
time to turn round, he was collared by the>
“soldiers” and landed beside the “Major” on the
platform. Here was an opportunity' that could!
not be missed, and the “Major” called aloud on>
tho “ Harmy ” to pray strong and hearty on behaltf
of the Whikl, and especially for the youth who)
-represented that powerful organ. And th*e
“ Harmy did pray—lor the whole staff, more par-
ticularly for the 033thetic young man, whom thev
Implored to give his heart to the Loard,” and to
turn from his evil ways, whilst the building rang
again with “Allelulias.” It may safely be in-
ferred that the prayers of the “ Harmy ’» had but
little, it anj% effect in the desired direction, for, as
the subject of the petitions stepped off the plat-
form, he gave vent to, his suppressed feelings in
language that could only flow from the lips of the
hopelessly unregenerate. “ I would not—aw—care
so much about going to the—place,” said he, “but
Publicly prayed for by t hose—aw—beastly
low lellahs— why, damme, it was too bad ” Hence-
forward the “ Harmy ” has no charms for the heir
presumptive to the CHtterduffy estates.
The Sunday Closing Clause.
Tom Sncnker doesn’t see winy
lie shouldn’t make a good tMn>g
out of the informer business.
He finds a back doo£ open, as be ex-
pected.
Collects evidence (in a bottle).
Ascertains beyond doubt that it
was intoxicating liquor.
Is corrobboi ated by the ] lolice.
And duly appears in court. In the
wrong box, though.


II
DE
&
COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire freedom from toothache and decay of the
teeth. There are thiee kinds, distinguished by a
Yellow, Green, and Ked Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with the Yellow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to persons who suffer periodically
from toothache, sensitiveness of the teeth and
gums,decay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops in a little water to rinse the mouth daily,
they will not only never' suffer again, but will pre-
serve their teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the Ked is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
'Caution.—To guard against fraudulent imitations,
<ee that each Label bean the name, “ Wilcox ana
<Co., 2ff9 Oxford-street, London.”
DE
rtm
One of these Cigarettes gives immediate relief in
the worst attack of Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis,
Sbortnt ss of Breath. Persons who sulfer at night
with coughing, phlegm, and short breath, find
them invaluable, as they instantly check the
spasm, pr imote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
a good night. Are perfectly harmless, and may be
smoked by ladies, children, and most delicate
patients.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
Caution. —To guard against fraudulent imitations,
see that each box bears the name of “ Wilcox and
Co.. 339 Oxford-street, London."
ALCOCK & CO.’S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
DOB and GO.,
375 George-sf., Sydney.
tsr TIME PAYMENTS, TF REQUIRED.
BLEND
[trade!
JMAWJ
Jt
TE.852
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, cpm-
bining- fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Sole
ARents.
M
Elflr
OS
Fi
mm
siii 1
i
m a
a ®i ■
1111
KBT VISIT R. BURG IS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
tor
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.
Diagrams for self-measuring forwarded to any
part of tbe Colony.
p
ÜBLIC NOTICE
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is bonded for severa.
years before being- bottled for export.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, when well matured
by age, is carefully bottled under supervision of
the officers of H.M. Customs.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY is exported in enorm-
ous quantities to all parts of the world.
BRIAN BORU WIIISKY. Australian con-
sumers will lind this brand
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BRIAN BORU W HISK\ . The great demand
for this old Irish brand m England, Scotland, find
the Colonics is a sufficient guarantee for its
quality.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY, sold bj leading - mer-
chants throughout the colonies.
BRIAN BORrtJ WHISKY comes direct from
distillers. i
vonwr? WHISKY, manufactured by
YOUNG, KINO, and CO., "asalirm” one of the
largest whisky holders in the world,
"WHISKY is unequalled in this
market for age and purity.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY was never exhibited,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
YOUNG, KING & CO.. Oistillcrs. Belfast,
WHISKY* 0 ® owners of BRIAN HOttU
JAMES YOUN6, JUN.,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
OFFICES:
SYDNEY : 7 & 9 Change Alley;
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
BRIAN BORU WHISKY.
" » ■ » mam-mm ■ mm
ExTRACTofD^NDEL*ON
[f2/ffi or Liver Complaints.
W.y MARSHALL BROTHER§!
CfcJ EMISTS, MARKET STREET.,
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILD NGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney.
iW Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas,
Aether Spray, Mcthylinc, and Chloroform.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
&‘tr
msu*AuQi.
,yrctn6(/)
Egßgl
SSMSBtWKIMIS
It is °fth e utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be careiully compared, as lartre
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beveraae should com-
pareLOKNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will find a difference
LAND e WHISKY Cent ' tavour of LORNE HIGH-
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS,
AYER’S
Cherry Pectoral.
No other complaints are so insidious in their
attack as those affecting the throat and lungs:
none so trifled with by the majority of suffer-
ers. The ordinary cough or cold, resulting
perhaps from a trifling or unconscious ex-
posure, is often but the beginning of a fatal
sickness. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
well proven its efficacy in a forty years’ fight
with throat and lung diseases, and should be
taken in all cases without delay.
A Terrible Cough Cured.
“In 18571 took a severe cold, which affected
my lungs. I had a terrible cough, and passed
night after night without sleep. The doctors
gave me up. 1 tried Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, which relieved my lungs, induced
sleep, and afforded me the rest necessary
for the recovery of my strength. By the
continued use of the Pectoral a perma-
nent cure was effected. 1 am now 62 years
old, hale and hearty, and am satisfied your
Cherry Pectoral saved me.
Horace Fairbrother.”
j, Rockingham, Vt., July 15,1882.
w Croup.—A Mother’s Tribute. v
“ While in the country last winter my little
hoy, three years old, was taken ill with croup;
it seemed as if he would die from strangu-
lation. One of the family suggested the use
of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, a bottle of
which was always kept in the house. This
was tried in small and frequent doses, and
to our delight in less than half an hour the
little patient was breathing easily. The doc-
tor said that the Cherry Pectoral had
saved my darling’s life. Can you wonder at
our gratitude ? Sincerely yours,
Mrs. Emma Gedney.”
159 West 128th St., New York, May 16, 1882.
“ I have used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
in my family for several years, and do not
hesitate to pronounce it the most effectual
remedy for coughs and colds we have ever
tried. A. J. CRANE.”
Lako Crystal, Minn., March 13,1882.
“ I suffered for eight years from Bronchitis,
and after trying many remedies with no suc-
cess, I was cured by tire use of Ayer’s Cher-
ry Pectoral. Joseph Walden.”
Bylialia, Miss., April 5,1882.
“ I cannot say enough in praise of Ayer’S
Cherry Pectoral, DeUeving as I do that
but for its use I should long since have died
from lung troubles. E. Braudon.”
Palestine, Texas, April 22, 1882.
No case of an affection of the throat or
lungs exists which cannot be greatly relieved
by the use of Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
and it will always cure when the disease is
not already beyond the control of medicine.
prepared by (t
Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
(W~ THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. 2v£a/tu.red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHIBKIEB
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO."S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex*.« rt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t.'<_refore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ v hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it,look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
tW 306 GEORGE STREET.
a&oMn Si#
TSAfIC
°^3cotfWt)i^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPB.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
I*” MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AFun before MOUSTACHE and WHISEEBS. ufobs aftet.
■gffte
Copyrighted,
Zioyd’a Beard F.lixir did thin, and j
| will do it on cither bald head or l
bare f are . To) ce» heaiy Mom . ,
tache in from 2to 4 weeks and never 1
fails, 20,000 young men already*
wear full beards , having used 1 to
Copyrighted*
3 pkta. h’o injury, easily applied^ certain in effect. Packets Is. &*.
each, 3 J°r os.iid. post paid, sent under cover \ free from observation.
!• rank I)ouglan, Sole Ayent,Jiox y:tQ, Q.p.Q,, Sydney ,N.S.W*
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
BEWING
MACHINES.
Mangle and
wringer, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walmot
Wood,
&c. Ac. &C.
HEBBLEWHITE &CO.
416 GEORGE STREET.
A COLOSSAL ME!!!
The following Gentlemen are engaged as
GUTTERS In the
LARGEST and Moat EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands aro now employed by Messrs.
SUMMEHFIELD & Co., whose chier
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 51 & 53
LEADENHALL-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, tho well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Saville Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr * .J 4 * OKRTSBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
As: Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER ItICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
I.L.SIMO.
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted first quality
‘ Charges strictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
surgeon dentists Io 6marketst e.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS
WITH SKILL.
PERFORMED
Teeth Stopped, and Exttractcd Palnleftshy
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The nou-aieoholic beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tonic, and docs not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
w<n« Co^.. on , de i l by . 1 1 10 Fac ]')ty as a substitute fot
wine, Beer, and spirits, as it in vivo rates without
producmjf any intoxicating- effect. In ease nf
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it is of great service, as it acts not only m
toThe system aDt ’ ° Ut alS ° 118 a P eraianen <t tonio
Price per case containing 10 dozen % pints ...21/-
** '• » 0 „ 1 „ .. 24/-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
&
<9
o v
WALL
Office:
330
-street
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
N.B. Patterns and Prices sent.
UMBRELLAS
RECOVER!
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Hay e your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sta.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly e*«.
rutad


H
E R
SPEECH RESTORED.
Clair View, Inverell, December 10,1883.
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear fairs.—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken place in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight chiidreu, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good re»ults:
but it is of my oldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I ' VIRh to tell you. fashe retired one night
about tour months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. Mv
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. —— who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines: and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar
saymg she might never recover her speech again!
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the dav I
used the oil-about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
it h , er throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever
and has been able to do so ever since.
1 remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
JAS. R, HATCHER.
REMEMBER THIS,
IP YOU AIIE SICK.
If you are sick, HOP BITTEItS will
surely aid Nature in making you well
again when all else fails.
If you are comparatively well, hut feel
the need of a grand tonic and stimulant,
never rest easy till you are made a new
being by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are costive or dyspeptic, or are
suffering from any other of the numer-
ous diseases of the stomach or bowels,
it is your own fault if you remain ill,
for
HOP BITTERS
are a sovereign remedy in all such com-
plaints.
If you are wasting away with any
form of Kidney Disease, stop tempting
Death this moment, and turn for a cure
to
HOP BITTERS.
If you are sick with that terrible sick-
ness, Nervousness, you will tinda “Balm
in Gilead ” in the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you are a frequenter, or a resideut
of a miasmatic district, barricade your
system against the scourge of all coun-
tries—malarial, epidemic, bilious and in-
termittent fevers—by the use of
HOP BITTERS.
If you have rough, pimply, or sallow
skin, bad breath, pains ana aches, and
feel miserable generally, HOP BITTERS
will give you fair skin, rich blood, tho
sweetest breath, health, and comfort.
In short, they cure ALL Diseases of
the Stomach, Bowels, Blood, Liver
Nerves, Kidneys, &c., and
.£5OO
will be paid for a case they will not euro
or help, or for anything impure or inju-
rious found in the them.
That puor, bed-ridden, invalid wife,
sister, mother or daughter, can be made
the picture of health by a few bottles of
Hop Bitters, costing but a trifle.
Will you let them suffer 7
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
lloi> Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
GRAHA
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
643, late 631, George-street, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
under your notice the superior style and fit of our
Trousers, which are oust on the same unerring
principles as those which have made th<3 name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion in the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freedom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well as
the slight figure, and are engaged to give to all the
most perfect satisfaction.
A single trial will suffice to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Yourobedlent Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTERS
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT, WEAK-
NESS, Ac.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist. &o.
43 ERBKINK STREET.
rnl<» Kr W- tl WniTl. nll
Printed and Published by Tna Bulletin News-
paper Co. (Limited), 24 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Uhiis a correspondent of the Loudon
Times:— “The-moral state of the London poor is
on a par with the state of their dwellings. They
use the words ‘ husband ’ and * wife,’ but their
alliances are only during pleasure, and the sale of
their women is not unknown. I heard of one lady
who had been bought from her father by her first
proprietor. He became weary of her and wished
to llnd another purchaser, but was ultimately
obliged to give a shilling with her as a premium
in order that she might be taken away. The second
owner found it impossible to get rid of her unless
he would give a premium of half-a-crown, and as
this was too great a demand on hio resources, for
the present she remains on his hands. Tho very
institution of marriage is spoken of contume-
liously. * What is tho good of marrying ?’ asked a
girl who was talked to on the subject. ‘ Only them
marries as can’t believe one another.’ ” It is this
vile neglect of the sacrament of marriage on the
part of tho poor which keeps tho Bishop of London
in suoh distressed circumstances. Ho just man-
ages to exist on £20,000 per annum. No one could
biamo him for tho condition of his dioepse. If
these people would only obey the church, it would
bo another £lO,OOO a year in his Lordship’s pocket,
in fees.
Not long ago, Lord Baring, eldest son of
the Earl of Northbrook (First Lord of tho Admi-
ralty), and tne hope of a family that during the
past thirty years has drawn out of the public
Exchequer £707,000, told theelectorsof Winchester
that jobb' ry and favouritism wore things of the
past in the English public service. How, then,
will he bo aide to account for such peculiar action
on the part of the Admiralty as tho following
story disposes? At Christmas tho workmen em-
ployed at Portsmouth Dockyard petitioned Lord
Northbrook to be allowed to work up extra time,
so as to have a holiday on Boxing Day. This very
reasonable request was refused, and the result was
that on Boxing Day no less than 2800 men absented
themselves without leave. By so doing they for-
feited their day’s pay, and that also for Christmas
Day. This was in striking contrast to the treat-
ment accorded to the Duke of Edinburgh on his
appointment to the command of the Channel
squadron—a position he was in no wise qualified
to 1111, hut which, through the obsequiousness of
the Earl of Northbrook, he obtained over the
heads of numerous officers who were his seniors
in rank. On his appointment, th<* Duke ran down
to Portsmouth, hoisted his flag, dined with Prince
Edward of Saxo-Weimur (another royal pauper),
and returned to town in the evening on leave of
absence, kindly granted by tho Lords of the
Admiralty for a fortnight. No mention was made
of the Duke’s pay being stopped for the two
week’s absence, or of working extra time to make
up for it!
He was a herculean specimen of the
Cooper’s Creek squatocracy—a bronzed and
bearded Adonis of twenty-ilve summers, whose
knowledge of the uuages of “culchawed”
society would hardly furnish material for a stan-
dard work on etiquette, as it was principally
acquired amid tho lax conventionalities of the
shearers’ hut, or the more refined and elegant
precincts of the “ Bushman’s Retreat,” where at
the annual race ball he had for three successive
years opened the rustic festivities by dancing the
•‘first set" with Miss Judith Mulligan, the pride of
the Paroo—a young lady imported from Melbourne
by tho enterprising landlord to dispense liquid
chain-lightning to his bucoiic patrons During a
recent visit—his first, by the way -to the “ Queen
City of tho South,” this unsophisticated young
main received an invitation to a private ball in tim
aristocratic suburb of South Yarra, which, with
considerable diffidence, he accepted. In duo
coui-se ho attended, faultlessly attired in most
respects. But, either through haste or ignorance,
he neglected to supply himself with the orthodox
number ten “kids.” Having been introduced to
the ladies, ho modestly requested the pleasure of a
dance with a fashionably dressed damsel of uncer-
tain ago, prim-looking and punctilious. With a
significant glance at his "lurge and sinewy” un-
gloved hands,shesimporingly replied: “Oh, thank
you; 1 could not think of dancing with you with-
out gloves.” “Oh, never mind, miss,’’ was tho
rejoinder, “I'll wash my hands after I'm done
with you, anyhow.” Negociations were not re-
sumed.
Before Mrs. Langtry, there were profes-
sional beauties. And, curiously, two of tho most
aristocratic families now high at Court are de-
scended from one of them. They were the “ beau-
tiful Gunning girls,” daughters of John Gunning,
of Castle Coote, Roscommon, whoso charms were
themed far and wide. Poor in station, they had
fully determined, like the Jersey Lily, to market
their marvellous beauty on the stage, but, being
presented at Court, they attracted notice at once ;
and to Elizabeth Gunning befel the singular fate
of becoming first Duchess of Hamilton, then
Duchess of Argyll (and an ancestress of the Mar-
quis of Lome), and finally refusing the honour of
a third ducal alliance, with the Duke of Bridge-
water, one of the richest and ablest men of the
day, in order to marry the man of her choice,
plain John Campbell. Her first marriage was per-
formed in May Fair Chapel, at midnight, and with
the ring of a bed-curtain. Why, we don’t know,
but there’s the fact. We can’t explain a good
many of the curious facts in the annals of women,
especially beauties. And in one way there is a
likeness between Elizabeth Gunning and Emilie
Langtry ; neither of them would “ koo-too.” At
a time when the raging mob in London made the
Duke of Northumberland drink in beer to the
health of John Wilkes, and subjected others of
the Hite to sundry indignities, the beautiful
Duchess defied the mob, and barricaded herself
in ; and though they battered down the gates,
pulled up the pavement, and besieged the house
for three hours, they were compelled to beat a
retreat.
A writer in the N.Y Sun complains that
Amorican “ brides of a season or two back, are
now sturdy..and middle-aged-looking matrons. .
. . A woman,” he cheerfully goes on, “ ought
to be beautiful up to thirty-five, and lovely and
loveable for twenty years longer.” We agree in a
good deal of this. We have found it so ourselvef.
We remember getting married once—where wasi',
now 1-n'importe .'—and going on a long voyagi,
immediately after the honeymoon. Wo returned
in a year or two, and were quite disillusioned.
She was twenty-five, then, and was not beautiful
But wo never told her so. She was “sturdy,” and
fond of steak and onions, and of those hard nuts
you see in the grocer's windows, which nobod v
ever seems to buy. We bore xvith that. She toe k
in the Young Ladies’ Journal, Bow Bells, and
the Family Reader. We bore with that, too. It
was only when she expressed a desiro to hold a
stall at the/fivoning Church bazaar, habited in a
low-neckeuvgown and short sleeves, and retail
“button-holes” to the local beaux of commerce
that we—and it makes us thoughtful, too. We
have kept a line capillary relic of her, and, curi-
ously enough, whenever we gaze upon that inter-
esting souvenir—(her name, we should say, was
Clorinda when we married her; afterwards
shortened to Jane)—we are not so much reminded
of what she was in her prime, as of steak and
onions, Bow Bells, hazel nuts, and the Family
Reader [These cheery little items, drawn from
actual experience, will be found to have a bene-
ficial effect upon those who have a bad attack of
gazing up at her window by moonlight. 'They will
also give a tone to even the dullest of spoona —Ed.
B.]
The American proposal f o number all the
hours of the day consecutively right away up to
twenty-four, commencing from midnight, has
much—everything, in fact—to recommend it; still
we tremble as we think of the confusion that will
be caused, just at first, should this now idea be
universally adopted. Fancy how our cousins from
up-country will struggle with such an announce-
ment as the following:—“ Theatre Royal.—Every
evening till further notice, .Targe Dallerr’s new
and emotional drama, entitled ‘ The Cloudy North,’
in seventeen acts and eighteen tableaux. Poors
open at nineteen, commence at half-past.” What
a revolution, 100, will be wrought in the “penny
’orribles,” in which tho hour of twelve has always
been such an important factor. How shall we take
to this sort of thing:—“ The clock in the old tower
—looming grey and ghostly through the inky
darkness—had just chimed the hour. The lurking
figure in the archway gazed stealthily at his watch
for the twenty-second time. ‘Twenty-three!’ he
mutterod, with an evil sigh. Scarce had the echo
of his exclamation reverberated adown the vaulted
passage, when a cab dashed madly up to where he
stood, and a long lithe form alighted. * What
news ?’ ‘ The best. The train in the Cathedral
cloisters is all but complete, the last ton of gun-
powder is now being laid. Make your way thither
unobserved, and await my coming. At twenty-
four the matches must be struck, and then each
for himself.’ ‘Good, and I may expect you?’
‘Ere twenty-four;’ and so saying, the stranger
sprang lightly into the vehicle and drove away
into the gloom.” (To be concluded in our next.)
Yes, it certainly will take us some time to recon-
cile ourselves to the new arrangement of the
hours.
The Hon. T. Bent and the other eminent Aus-
tralians who lately found their way to India, and
some of whom have dribbled back, are determined
to shine in future as great authorities on the
social condition of that unfortunate country.
They don’t succeed very well in tracing causes,
and are not indeed startlingly solicitous in trying
to discover whether there be any such things. Hut
they are fine on India as it is. It gives excellent
room for the display of pictorial abilities. Rags
look well as an oratorical embellishment, and
misery and wretchedness are rhythmical phrases
with which to close a period. True, there are rags
and wretchedness and misery in India, and a mea-
sure of these was always there. Buttheroismoreof
them there now than ever there was in the past,
if we except the periods of famine panic. And,
what is very singular, is that as the poverty grow
the revenue grew. It now stands at about
£70,000,000. And, what is stranger still, is
that th,' more wo civilised them the poorer
the bulk of the people became. And it is
right to add that the more of our laws
we taught them, the more the poor have
been oppressed. In their early state each
ciste had its lines. In its lines it could live,
for tho lines wore determined by the natural law.
And the caste above moved on its lines, and each
felt that it wanted the other to lean upon, or hang
from. Before English ideas reached there, the
unwritten law among the cultivators and their
masters w-as that the season determined the rent;
and if the elements were hostile, the tenants were
GIVING AND TAKING.
FIRST AMATEUR : “ I say, we might give concerts!"
SECOND DITTO : “So we might, but who would take ’em?”
let down easily. Both landlord and tenant were
ignorant of the economic principles of civilisation.
Wo instructed them. We formulated an Act
which, as the Rent Act, the bo3t writers on Indian
affairs have denounced as ruinous. The higher
civilisation, in dealing with tho lower, is always
exact about definitions. Tho rude arrangement
■whereby the elements could come in as a factor
between the landlord and tenant, could not be
taken cognisance of by our own economists. We
defined what a landlord was, and what a tenant
was, and marked clearly the commercia Jrelation-
ship between the two. The landlord, following
the newly-found principle of the free contract,
chrystallised into an extortioner. The tenant
looked in the face of the elements, and not
knowing what else to do, prayed. The ele-
ments did not, of course, mind that, but devas-
tated when they pleased, and let the tenants pray
away. Tenants always pray in such cases, until
they get mad, and then they blow their landlords
to blazes. They have not got mad yet in India,
but they will. Surely, O, Heaven, they will ! “ We
have produced in India,” says one writer, “the
absolute landlord who cares nothing for the
seasons, and the rackrented tenant whom the
seasons kill. But still our revenues increased, and
we made a good thing out of India, and supported
a splendid Government, and gave handsome
salaries to well-connected young men whom we
sent out there for one purpose or another. We
admitted that the country was the cradle of tho
human family, but we went out to it, got a hold
of our parent race, and made it support hordes of
our talented offspring. Mr. Bent and his friends
feel sad as they look on tho poor Indians to-
day. But what is the use of crying, unless we can
point out something that should be done ? It is
easier, indeed, to tell part of what should be
undone. It was told long ago. But as the man
who told it diedlong ago, we’li write it out again:
Reams of his hiccoughing platitudes lodged in the
pigeon-holes of the Foreign Oflice by all the
gentlemen clerks and gentlemen f armers in the
world cannot mend this ; while the Indian villager
has to maintain the glorious phantasmagoria of an
Imperial policy ; while he has to support legions
of scarlet soldiers, golden chuprassies, purple
politicals, and green commissions, he must remain
the hunger-stricken, over-driven phantom that
hi «.
It is no misuse of terms to call the Irish nationalist
leader the “uncrowned King of Ireland.” Such
he is, in sober truth. The recent demonstration in
his honour, at which a splendid testimonial of
national gratitude was presented to him, afforded
ample proof that his country is with him, and that
tho agitation he leads is in no sense either a party
or a sectarian movement. His action has all along
been true to the political programme which lie
laid down in 3868. In that manifesto, he pledged
himself to seek the restoration to Ireland of its
domestic Parliament: avowed his intention to act
independently of all English parties; and promised
support to “such an extension of the ancient and
historic tenant-right of Ulster in all its integrity
to the other parts of Ireland as will secure to the
tenants continuous occupation at fair rents.”
Faithful to those pledges, he has won his present
position—a position which will be immeasurably
stronger should Household Suffrage be extended
to Ireland. Even us it is, the “Irish Brigade”
is the feature (to use Qastlereagh’r "bull”)
on which the question, “ Shall Liberal or Jingo
rule England?’’ chiefly hinges, Parnell has al-
ready compelled Ministers and Parliament to pass
a Land Act. From his prison he dictated an
Arrears Act. And there can be no doubt that he
possesses the means to make good his throat of
putting the Jingos into power (thereto do their
worst in the way of coercion) it tho Liberals will
insist upon administering Irish affairs in an uncon-
stitutional manner. ".No more coercion and no
more emigration!” are the Parnellian watch-
words. In denouncing the wickedness!; of the
Government Irish emigration proposals, Parnell
makes a point when he shows that no English
statesman has as yet even so much as suggested
any scheme for the emigration of outcast Lon-
doners—a fact that proves that the Irish emigra-
tion plan is but a device to drain Ireland (where
there is room enough for miliioifs more in-
habitants) of her people. As for England s
chronic coercive treatment of Ireland, Parnell
attributes to it all the blame—and rightly—of what
violent crime lias occurred of late years in that
misgoverned countri; while as for the action of
the Land League, he ancticipates for it tho sanc-
tion of the unprejudiced and faithful historian,
whom ho imagines as saying, “never was there a
a movement (that of tho Land League) formed to
contend against such an infamous and horrible
system, a system which even the British Govern-
ment and (he Lords and Commons of England have
already practically admitted to be a gigantic
system of robbery and fraud—never was there a
movement formed to contend against such a
system, with such odds against it, in the carrying
out of which there was so much moderation and
such an utter absence of crime, and the strong
passions which lead to crime.” And when all is
said and done, we think that Parnell’s words on
this, as on most other points, are not to be gain-
said. He is fighting for a good cause in a manly
way, and wo sincerely wish "more power to his
elf owl”


£
m
4
o''
JU.
w
cXe
7
11?:
IS
/ftorn
SPfe., .-*1
£
5-i
.//3B§sggc
CMHE
339
MW®ApropposiTeposT Office
li&rc
©eopee.
sweei
29S
or
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
m 2
s
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET,
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
it
Peapes & Shaw’s
STANDARD” CLOTHING.
have now open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
GENTLEMEN'S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be found many house in the city.
&tanV!\ es & shaW ’ s
aa Nl)ard clothing
The best value
tN SYDNEY.
STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 325. 6d., 355., 425., 455., 505., 555.
DLUE SERGE SUITS, 355. and 425. c , ...
TWEED SAC coats, Os. 6d. each, suitable for garden or office.
1 WEED SAC COATS, 15s. 6d. and 21s.
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
TWEED TROUSERS, Ifis. 6d., 13s. Bd<, 16s. 6d.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 'M,
SHILLINGS.
LToB°LLS’ LIGHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY
-GiV.J TWEED OVERCOATS, 42e., 505., 555.
® p hCIAL” COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
IfejSTY’S HATS, all new summer shapes.
ilk) MAN-O’-WAR SUITS, guernsey and
complete.
MACINTOSH CLOTH INQ.-AU
made +n nilr special Ol'&Bt.
and LAWN-TENNIS
fin Adoptions made to our s
V,V„ NG, CRICKETING,
Vii^TS.
'''.HITE’ FLANNEL SACS, for cricketing or boat-
j&fc 225. 6d.
hANNEL TROUSERS, 13s 6d. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. Od. each ; 3 for 3"s.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 6s. Od., 10s. 6d., 13s. 6d., 14s. 6d„
13s. 6d., 31s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 13s. 6d. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. 6d.,
18s. Od., Sts,
BLACK A LPACA COATS, 108. 6d., 13s. 6d„ los. 6d.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
OOATS, 18s. 6d., 31S.
PEAPES and SHAW, George-streec.
OTJH
I MERCERY DEPARTMENT is StoskeA With all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
Reason.
GpJ NT;s COTTON LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fancy
1 Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbriggan,
-Indian, and Spun Silk, with Pants to match.
CH^R I INTiD I REG’ATTA O and'oXFORD &llRT,dollars attached, 305., 405., 425. the half-dozen.
® T LINEN COLLARS.—The Beresford, Seymour, Army and Navy, General, Admiral, with patent
and DesigaB - _The MaBher ’ c LPrus, Rosebery, Marquis,
1 !!’ 16 ribs, Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s. 6d. to 355.
Igs New TITANIA UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than any umbrella, 1 guinea each.
SRk-MEW COMBINATION BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
Handkerchiefs, sis., 305., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, Seorge-atraet.
TXTolff Sz Son’s
le had fromall Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Are IrTo'W Open.
McCLEERY’S hotel,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
R. RfIcCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
private bar up-stairs.
,/V
&
m
was
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
, ” into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
tobaccos stand MUST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
aQkee D oodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture.
c IUA.RETTES.—CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a high position.
Importers of Pipes Cigars, and all Tobacconists’ Sundries.
NT “ CONQUEROR ” TOBACCO WORKS, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
C. B. M ODIN I,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
1&T TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1819-80, tor
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 60S GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Qsbobnb ; also Angelo Bor-
dorii, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR ,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort.’
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, Cliinaware, &c.,
Tricycles, Trench and German
Model Bolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Pigures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOOBS ANB TOYS.
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solh-o Bazaar
352 George Street
JOHN G. HARBOROW,
470 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Fruit Markets,
GLOVES
HOSrERY
SUNSHADES
LACES
*
LADIES’ BOOTS & SHO!
HAND BAGS
FANS
ptmsES
and all varieties of FANCY GOODS.
470 Qeorge-street.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
IJHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being:
ALWAYS PURE,
and. being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Rutter.
This is either manufactured at their own depot
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
lO Park Street,
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£36 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The Latest, most Popular Music in Stock.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 PARK STREET. SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED by ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital.
Reserve Fund..
£300,000
£132,500
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
Georg-e S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C,
C. RoHeston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scrogjfie, Esq.
Hon* EL E. Cohen* EO4
Manaskr :
F. A. A. Wilaon.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New Sooth Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giratemboae,
Gosford, Nyngan, and. Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G
Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq-
Manager. : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
JJAS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality.
Note the Address—
-5H GEORGE STREET.
a
truths Caterer,”
TEMPORARY PREMISES :
110 King.street, Sydney.
“ GUNSLER, THE
CATERER"
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S"
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER’S "
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
“ GIJNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER ”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER "
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
Has decided to open in Syd-
ney, but premises such as hs
desires are not now available.
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
Name is a household word,
and his desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who may rest assured that
the care and attention which
has made “Gunsler the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring colony
will be devoted to any and
every undertaking he may
enter into.
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the colonies,
and their assistance will
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in suxfta
style and at such modetate
prices as has never been at-
tempted in this city.
Has a practical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will do his best
to deserve it.
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, for the
Christmas and New Tear
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is confident they will
meet with universal approval
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
Make a special [effort for the
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which he is
sole Agent in Australia.
Was thg Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normanby,
and V.R. dub.
fis the leading Australian
Caterer.
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands,
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
jar* THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED^
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT,
on toed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods : FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £6O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
arthusi
£.C
TREATMEN
k R. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
I MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hvsteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, fits, nervous neuralgia, headache, neiwous
prostration oaused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
brain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
decay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, 6s.
box, or six boxes for 265.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. We guarantee six boxes to cure
any case, with each order received for six boxes,
accompanied with 265., the purchaser will reeeive
the nanufacturer’g written guarantee to refund
the money if the treatment does not effect a cure
Guarantees issued by all chemists and druggists


isuaa-Ista-n
G-olcL
EGISTERED.)
T eTxre llery
3
■'M
jmsmam/Kj
AS
■ ■
, ... #
&mW
9 SYDNEY AECADE & 12 EOYAL AECADE.
ill 1* on, CAPS m WITCHES, k,
LATEST FASHIONS.
kSe;
*
WATCHES,
g§gi*Sf» Special Novelties, &c.
COs. SAAC2S* ]
Country Orders punctually attended^
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original staff of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. B. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.8.-BOWD (OVEIt PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager
.A. GrXZSJXTJD
J
J
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
Is OPENING up, every day, a L a iE^ s^fepK C and C pAGET and So*£ M “*
“oWIY. Every «*■ ]
VI
vv n lift anu rvciUv\ ia ri «i; ~ ~— .„j.h
plain figures, and at VEltl LOW I RICES. mock
m~ Both shopa are thorougly chock full. Come ea^“ d ™ pe@ VT)NB y t° cb ”!iy)'
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLO ™^ G ™ pK y pESC® lF j
teC: y ™L rlitVok when requiring CLOTHING OE EVERY *
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Hayi»» r j
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Maike J
HAWKES AND COMPANY,
TATTJSRSAIjL’S HOUSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNT Eli
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Dally, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
. All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
separate.
GARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
1 UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
1J daction of the LION TOBACCO ;it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TOBACCO, which combines a very superior quality
with a moderate price.
m
HEYOE, TODMAN & CO.,
YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
Champagne
& Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE,
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.*
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
Solo Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
SEARL & SONS,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETISTS
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORGE-STREET MARKETS, SYDNEY;
Also,
BLAiR ATHOL NURSERY PETERSHAM.
|s jy- Pevargonv urns now in full .oom. nspection
invited.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORGE STREET WEST.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS
-
Air-tight
SHOW
GASES
AT
LONDON
PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
mm
m-
■ /:
HOT WATER BATHS
•hAIF
' i3Z 139 A I4t OXFORD ■.£ ' •'.. ‘ ,
H'JliO* Y£V£/1 Y 7>/vr<SOAY ' .
33 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
HIGGIN’S
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained iirst honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
AND
ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
AND
# Thomas Ingham .
W~ ROCKHAMPTON
f v\ V _ A .
BULL-DOG ALE.—-IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this c rand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very fine, but no other brand has the
same mellow Vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great keeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to la equal in quality to BULL-DOG CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
TATE BROTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OP PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
public generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WAl^; ;
Importer of every deser P
Literature, Law,
Fancy Stat lon^ r /
English Papers and Mas®*
Mail
every
GEORG® &
ROYAL ARCADE. 49«
.HEATOH* 1
WRIGHT
(LIMITED)*
GENERAL CAR 1
Forwarding, Shipping,
and Commission W
HEAD OFFIC® •
241 Pitt Street,
S/ 1
CARRIERS TO THE
SOUTH
BRANCH OFFI 1 ®
Southern DIBTRI cT
o alburn
sjgss*^
Cufe
Naran^.
owning
inalong
«“»“ , assa
ootamundra
unee 11 y
Western Dxstri 01 ’
3ESS
layney Sypiatf*®
rSton gs>'«
a-
fevertire
Northern
U- s ' "
»
jrpctb
mnedata
irrabri
algett
Brew<;
n’aol' 0
IJral-ia
QUEENSLAND
lITUIIJV A NTI SOU^
Southern and South-
isbane <>mD o 0f *
ekhampton
gantungan
lerald
Central BiR
Capel®
Coio et
NORTHER 1 *
vnßville
irters Towers
Rav 0
tandS« u
Agents in Victoria an« ►" x
« * CO "
M. M'CULLQCH *
r tJ»*
/
i6 ot w //
OF~ Agencies in all P ar //k
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
of all kinds of iEraied Maters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vig
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JdL U m X jliJKj jl, JL A/LN jla A .
Medal for AErated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs , y^A
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold
