

mmw m
3?r ovideis.
°lS'P a BfflepnaiHEHi
-KaiPS
g&aKfea figg&TßanaaM
f
OF
//? the Australian Colonies .
SfiONY
HORDERN AND SONS,
a Uvce EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY.
— : ':.t-===i===:—:r: ■ Ji====--
\ l "*X Novelties! Spring Novelties! The Opening of the Spring Trade.
Steamer. The Pick of the Fashions for the present Spring Season.
a charming variety of the Newest Mantles, the Choicest Millinery, and everything fresh in Laces, Ribbonsa
S J -lies, Collars, Flowers, Costumes, and Dress Materials, suitable for wear during the Spring months.
i “Hi m
V s o a) 5 iACS3 sonars, ± lowers, uostumes, ana Dress Materials, suitaoie ior wear uunug tae opi-mg uiyum#.
(l '^W? nificent °f Furniture of all kinds, Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleums, Window Blinds, Curtains, Cretonnes,
& Requisite and necessary to furnish either a Cottage or a Mansion inexpensively, artistically, and substantially,
and we are this season in a position to give BETTER VALUE THAN EVER 1
Our Only Address—
FHONY HORDERN AND
\ Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only,
PROVIDERS. UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


HUDSON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED),
KEDEEHN WORKS, SYDNEY.
SST UNEQUALLED SAFETY. £W~ EXTREME SIMPLICITY. VW GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
KSF—JgIMP LICIT Y OF MANIPULATION. VW SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. E3F" FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates. Diagrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Retlfern,
Sol® Agents far
The Otis HyeSrauSSc Elewatars.
MjlH ST plßSilSx aedTca,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURE BS of
DlVm® OEM, Brass & Nickeß-pßated SHOP FHOWTS,
[Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &o.
fiST" Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work; Coppersmithing, Blaoksraithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fitting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “PLUSH-OUT,” “ VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “ VACUUM ” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &e.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BOH ACCOM! 10B1S, 8 & O fflaequarie IPSsse, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
KOYAiHOTEL
BOTOSE,
Is the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in tbc Western district.. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even in tbe Metropolis. Private Suites for families. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS mmmms, Proprietor.
H. L. StJHiIEKFiEtO & CO.,
THE PEOPLE’S TAILORS,
235 and £37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
X£. L. STjMMERFIELD & CO.,
THE GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS,
235 and 237 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
And at
51 and 53 LEADENHALL STREET, LONDON, E.C.; 32, 34, and 36 HUNTER
STREET, NEWCASTLE; FITZMAURICE STREET, WAGGA; MACQUARIE
STREET, DUBBO.
J3T* Our new Illustrated Catalogue of Fashions, with Prices of Men’s and Boys’
Goods; Patterns and Self-measurement Forms sent post free, on application.
470 GEORGE STREET,. opposite Central Fruit Markets.
EXTRAORDINARY SALE
or
WINTER HOSIERY AND MILLINERY.
New Stock of Ladies’ Gloves? Laces? and Fichus.
The Choicest Stock of Face# Coeds in SjcSney.
Parasols? Utnhreiias? Sag§s*
Parses and Fancy Ware.
XX.
XX
XX
XY
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
X*L
XX
|| whenever
MEMO, to you from
Pitt-st., SyiiiSf-
To Residents in the Country. Goods ff
You cannot do better than send down to us ° r .g/J e]1 £ ti
you want something nice and tasty,
xx from what you can get in the country stores
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
XX
I2P Send down to us for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Guide, an
You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hcsrdern Brothers?
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY^
XXXXXXXXXX XX XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXllllxxxXXXXS^
:xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX^t ==== ====== :::::^
BRISCOE, DRY CD ALE & CO,
. iciw, ui mm fflJP
337 QEORGE STREET,
K and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AS T r 1 T
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ® Ntr
SOLE
CO., ENGLAND.
AGENTS FOR ROBEY &
IMPORTERS OF QqQ$
Engineers’ Tools, Eounders’ Materials, Bhip Chandlejy^^ a |
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Ag
Implements.
jsnginjsv
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
1b sr and Hoisting-, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
W<3*
e:
Wmt
“ --j
■ «.»■»
MACHINERY.
E61LERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
Lathe?, Drilling, Punching and Shearing; Shaping, SIo Uirlg
Machines. Massey s unequalled Steam Hamm* 31
WWOD-WOBKIN© MACHINERY. t g g,vrS-
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and seem* 1
&efi
L0P
English and American Agricultural Implement*'
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs^J^y^g^S»S®SS , ’ ?hrS8hI,,g
if
'Thres blIJtt
Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Sbeu*»« pi
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant. la g S , Vftra u
COACH BtriLDBHS’ SDNDRIES.-Axles, Springs, Wooden; ware, heathers and Fur c®t rUg
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
L,rge M. ,!™y, on to n d of £§ Kdfid f&££ *
Squatters’ Supplies. an d P 9Da
WoolpackB, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Wire, Sheep Washm
Builders’ Ironmongery. rpe ot erS ’
Locks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Ca
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDARE AND 7 '
®S7 Street, Sydney*
W. W. CATER, Importer, 103 &
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
CIA TEE’S svatem of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing, p
) prices, i/being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing yj;S»
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS, LACKS’
1K “ UU DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES*
— ■ „ ,rreafc sllC
Our introduction of Glove-fitting at the counter as done in Paris, isa «
nowboth Lady and Gentlemen litters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FRC M '
WHOLESALE PRICES.
■W- *W_ CATB^^y
193 and 195 PITT S~"
SHEARSBY &
SSerciiaait Tailors, Btablt, and
Rots® w
Trousers from Sis. to 4«s.
—~ i p f
jgy* N.B.—Mr. SIIEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER
W. Shearsby & Co, 5 Albert House, Temple CouH>


THE BULLETIN
Vol. 2 No. 74.—New Series.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1884.
Prlo»—6d.
Indecent Literature.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER]!, 1884.
The recent seizure of books alleged to be
indecent opens up a curious question, which
in singularly emphasized by the Daily
Telegraph. That journal heads its account
of the affair: “ Seizure of Pernicious Litera-
ture.” Now, there seems little question
that the spirit in which the seizure of the
books was made corresponded exactly with
the aspect in which it struck the uncon-
sciously discriminative Daily Telegraph.
The gist of the proceedings lay in the fact
that the ordinary Police Court Justice was
converted for the time being into a censor
of literature. The charge made by Police-
Inspector Anderson —who is well-known to
be a very strong sectarian—against some of
the, books was not that they wei e merely
indecent, but that they were, as the D.IV
puts it, pernicious. Mr. Anderson, besides
reading detached passages—a method of
demonstration which would equally justify
the conviction of a dealer in Holy Bibles—
alleged that, if the principles of some of the
works were cairied out, “ the present con-
stitution of society would be overthrown.’’
Well, what of that ? The allegation was
quite beside the mark. The present consti-
tution of society is no part of Divine revela-
tion, and to seek to alter or subvert it is no
offence against either law or religion. But
it may be said, the plan suggested in these
books would not improve upon the present
constitution of society. Perhaps not. That
is a matter of opinion. And of a surety
there is no indecency or illegality in pro-
pounding in good faith a philosophical or
social system which fails to penetrate the
iatelleot of a Methodistical Inspector of
Police. “The constitution of society ” has
been overthrown repeatedly, and by every
successive change mankind has been in the
long run the gainer. Among the books
seized were “The Fruits of Philosophy ’’
and “The Fdements of Social Science.”
Now, neither of these books is what may be
termed essentially indecent. They both
treat, indeed, of very delicate, or —as some
foul-minded people would, perhaps, prefer
to say—indelicate subjects. But both books
deal with these subjects philosophically, and
one of them treats of them medically, and
in a very competent fashion. We don’t
expect Inspector Anderson to comprehend
our line of argument, of course. But
happily the readers of Tiie Bulletin can
mostly be regarded as having intelligence
adequate to follow abstruse demonstrations.
* * *
Our readers will understand our position
when we show that, while we disagree with
the philosophy of both these books, we con-
sider the punishment of any man for selling
them a piece of infamous stupidity. The
whole matter as regards these two books is
extremely recondite, and hinges upon the
verity or falsity of the Malthusian doctrine
relating to population. The author of “ The
Elements of Social Science” is a pronounced
disciple of Malthus; so also is the author
(Dr. Knowlton, if our memory serve us,)
of the work from which tho excerpts pub-
lished separately under the title of “The
fruits of Philosophy” aretaken. Theeditors
of the last named book, Mr. Bradlaugii and
Mrs. Besant, are also strong adherents of
the Rev. Mr. Malthus, whose theory, by the
Wa y, is practically incorporated in the or-
hodox beliefs of the age. Now, that theory
i 8 admitted on all hands, even by its most
evoted adherents, to be an infinitely dis-
ressing one. Although it is endorsed by the
orthodox, and constitutes a vital portion of
the political religion Jof all the propertied
and otherwise fortunate classes, it is a theory
which directly tends to atheism. So stroDgly
is this the influence of its teachings, in fact,
that it seems but natural that atheists like
Mr. Bradlaugh and Mrs.” Besant should
credit it. One might almost conceive that
they owe their atheism to their Malthusian-
ism. But that people who profess to believe
that human affairs are governed by the
direct control of a God, omnipotent, omni-
scient, and, above all, loving, should be able
to reconcile a belief in the teachings of Mal-
thus with their theological faith, is a pro-
found mystery.
♦ * *
Orthodox religion inculcates the theory
that an all-knowing, all-powerful, and all-
loving God created man, controls human
affairs, and regulates existence. The Rev.
THE HON. MR. DUTTON, MINISTER FOR LANDS, QUEENSLAND.
Mr. Malthus, a beneflced clergyman of the
Church of England, taught that the con-
ditions of human existence are so discord,
antly arranged that misery is the fore-
ordained and inevitable lot of a large
proportion of mankind. Now, no person
competent to reason logically can believe
both these propositions. But it is the vi#e
of dogmatic theology that it not only dis-
regards logic, but absolutely cripples and
disables theminds of its students for coherent
reasoning. A contradiction of ideas or of
terms, of which the foregoing is an example,
is not, in the theological system of reasoning,
an evidence of essential error. Whenever
the incredible stops the way in dogmatic
theology, it is promptly and adroitly leaped
with the assistance of a miracle, or scram-
bled over with the help of a convenient
ladder called Faith. By this plan it becomes
possible to theologically trained people>
who have not independently worked out
the emancipation of their own minds,
to believe that contradictory propositions
may both be correct, and that a statement
may, at the same time, involve an impos-
sibility and embody a Divine truth. The
capacity for believing equally two irrecon-
cilable propositions is one definite result of
a theological training—a system generally,
but quite improperly, designated “religious”
teaching.
* * *
The theory of Malthus is that population
naturally tends to increase more rapidly
than the means of subsistence. Accord-
ing to the reverend economist, the only
reason why the world is not at the
present moment crowded by a mass
of, without exception, starveling human
beings is that the strongest—as in the case
of a shipwrecked crew—have snatched the
share of the weakest, and, while .thus pre-
serving their own robustness, have driven
the others to destruction. The simile of a
shipwrecked crew alloat with inadequate
provisions almost exactly illustrates Mr.
Malthus’ argument. The unhappy wretches
are driven by their miserable circumstances
to struggle with each other for existence.
Some, overawed by the habit of obedience
to authority, submit to see their officers ap-
propriate to themselves the garments requi-
site for protection from the inclemency of
the weather and the food necessary for the
sustentation of life. These docile victims
languish and die. Others, less tractable, fly
at the throats of the monopolists, and tight
them at any disadvantage desperately
ready to sacrifice their own lives, provided
they can drag one of their selfish antagonists
overboard with them. The stronger party,
on the other hand, aware that, owing to the
insufficiency of supplies, all must perish if
some are not sacrificed, quiet their con-
sciences with the argument of necessity,
seize upon all the provisions they can secure,
and, hardening their hearts, throw the re-
sponsibility upon Providence ; arguing that
the fact that they are strong and armed, and
the others weak and weaponless, is ample evi-
dence that the Almighty designed that they
should live and the others die. Sometimes one
more callous, more cunning, or more devout
than ordinary, recognising early that a
struggle is inevitable, schemes to precipitate
it, and incites one party of the less knowing
to engage in a destiuctive conflict with an-
other party of the same sort. So, in like
manner, Malthus teaches that sufficient
food for comfortable subsistence is only re-
served to the few by the destruction of the
many. Population would, he alleges, have
long ago exceeded the means of subsistence,
and the human race would have been ex-
tinguished by universal famine, but for the
operation of certain checks to increase, and
certain processes which operate to sweep
away human superfluity. These checks he
defines as all those customs and all those
diseases which seem to be generated by a
scarcity of the means of subsistence. First,
the preventive check, which includes in
various forms all processes or considerations
which induce human beings to abstain from
reproduction. Mr. Malthus, under this
head, distinctly reviews the effects of prosti-
tution, but dismisses that as immoral, and
founds his entire proposals of remedy upon
an abstinence from wedlock, or, at least,
from ; procreation, to be observed.'in obedi-
ence to moral obligations. But the vice of
his system is that he recommends that this
abstinence from the joys of matrimony and
the delights of paternity shall be imposed
solely upon those classes of individuals
whose circumstances are most narrow. In
other words, he advises that when a man
has been denied the ease, dignity, and con,
sideration which wealth bestows, and when
he has already to suffer from straitened
circumstances and small|regard, he shall put
the climax upon his ill-fortune by passing
through existence in a condition of celibacy,
never to know the sweet delight of having a
child of his own smile upon him. These
joys, Mr. Malthus proposes, should be re
served as an addition to the pleasures of the
well-to-do. It is easy to understand that the
theories of MALTHUshave been most heartily
endorsed and approved in the most distin-
guished and respectable quarters. Failing
observance of the preventive checks, Mal-
thus warns mankind to expect the positive
checks. These comprise misery in every
form; war, pestilence, and famine, against
which the English clergy pray every Sunday *
but which, according to Malthus, are Pro-
videntially ordained so (long as poor people
are not restrained, either by moral consider-
ations or by other force, from mating.
• • •
Malthus, as a priest, regards all connec-
tions not sanctified by the sacrament of
marriage as vicious; and while he recognises
promiscuous intercourse and prostitution as
being potently effectual checks to popula-
tion, and therefore in a sense useful to the
human race, he dismisses them as inadmis-
sable on moral grounds. His disciple, the
author of “ The Elements of Social Science,”
parts company with him at that point, and
contends that in view of the frightful doom
of the human race if procreation be general,
and of the absolute impracticability of re-
straining mankind from indulging in the
most overwhelmingly potent of all natural
instinots, prostitution is, although a deplor-


* n B —We suggest that this list will be con-
venient for committees of schools of arts and
mechanics' institutes in Australia, as the prohibi-
tion in Ruesia of the works named, distinctly
points to them as works in wbioh there is some-
thing etfective towards the emancipation ot man-
kind and the dissemination of progressive ideas.
IE POFUIAH 5
BRIAN BORU
YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), hare
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES,
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &c.
Brian Boru
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bod-time.
mr PURE RUM,
Extra Strong,
6a. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Settle Separtseeni,
MARKET BTKBBT,
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
DO TO
O. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET'
wheir9 you •'an obtain for
o<a.
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open in
MARKET STREET.
EBD or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
Tha host Wholesome or all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELIBH WHISKY
Bs. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle..
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE.
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S STAR *** PALE BRANP7,
6s. ftd. per bottle,
C. W. ROBERTS
Street, Sydney.
iible remedy, not so deplorable as the ill it
Would relieve. This argument is, we pre-
sume, the one from which Mr. Anderson
selected a sentence or so, as evidence that
the book is utterly immoral.
* * *
In “The Fruits of Philosophy,” the
Authors, whose vieWs have been adopted by
thinkers of the Biiadlauoh and Besant
School, While admitting the accuracy of Mr.
Malthob’ diagnosis of the fate of humanity,
spurn the suggestion that prostitution is ex
cusable, and recommend what may be
termed restricted procreation in wedlock.
They argue that any form of prevention,
not physically injurious, is better than that
myriads of the world's population shculu
only come into existence to languish in un-
speakable misery, to die of premature de-
lay for lack of sustenance, or violently in
wars and convulsions due to the constant
struggle for the survival of the Attest. In
simple language, they explain to their fel-
low creatures a means of limiting popu-
lation.
* * *
Thus, it will be recognised, it is a far-
reaching philosophy, not an ebullition of
111th for filth’s sake, that Inspector Ander-
son and the Sydney Bench have in their
superior wisdom ruled shall not be revolved
by the people of this colony at any rate. It
is nothing to them that “The Elements of
Social Science ” has already passed through
a dozen editions, has been translated into
both German and French, and may be found
in the library of probably nine out of ten
studious meu all over the world. There is
really nothing marvellous iu this superior
sagacity on the part of a policeman, when
we consider that in the time of the Common-
wealth sundry inspired cobblers, butchers,
and brewers, would fain have suppressed
every copy of the works of Shakespeare;
and that when the Pope was a temporal
sovereign, any earnest mouchard in his
dominions would have felt it incumbent on
his conscience, and found himself supported
by legal authority, in seizing every copy he
could lay his hands upon of “ The Pilgrim’s
Progress,” or the works of Sir Isaac New-
ton.
* * *
It is about time that the laws with respect
to indecent publications were placed upon
an intelligible basis. Of the works seized by
Inspector Anderson, two, as we have shown,
are philosophical treatises, written with
serious objects, and really valuable as mate-
rials for very important reflections. We
disagree with the systems of both, utterly
and entirely. We challenge the accuracy of
the theories upon which both base their de-
ductions. That is to say, we dispute the
accuracy of Mai/thus’ system. But we re-
cognise the honn fides of the authors, while
we differ from them, and we admit that no
Malthusian can reasonably complain of
these deductions or can hope to controvert
them. Amongst the other books seized we
observe that extraordinary creation of M.
Zola, “ Nana.” This work, the precursor of
a school of fiction—the realistic—is a work of
absolute genius. It presents no spurious
concoction of impossible immorality, but
pictures aspects of actual life which it is
probably useful should he reco.nistd and
fairly faced. “Nana” has been read all
oVer the civilised world, and is freely sold in
every part of the globe, except the Russian
Empire, Sydney, New South Wales. In
Russia, by a decree of the sth January of
this year, the following works are not to be
allowed in the reading rooms and public
libraries, viz., translations of works by
Agassis, Bagehot, Huxley, Zola, Lassalle,
Lubbock, Lecky, Louis Blanc, Lewes, Lyall,
Marx, J. S. Mill, Reclus, Adam Smith’s
“ Wealth of Nations,” and “ Theory of
Moral Sentiments,” and Herbert Spencer’s
works. * If in Moscow there were an In-
spector Andersonofe of orthodox tastes
wider scope for indulgence in these, under
cover of legal sanction and the approval of
“all right thinking people,” would be his
than is enjoyed by our own ToRquExiADA
iu blue But neither Germany, Great
Britain, France, Italy, nor Amerioa en_
joys the benefits of having an Inspector
Anderson to treat their population as chil-
dren required to be docile in presence of his
magnificent discrimination in literary mat-
ters. None of the works seized are proper
reading virginilnis puerteque— words which,
we presume, Inspector Anderson’s vast eru-
dition will enable him to understand convey
no aspersion on his moral character, how-
ever indecent they may look in print. We
have no desire to asperse the active and in-
telligent Inspector by describing him as an
oblate spheroid or a regular parallelopipe-
don. There seems little doubt that the
treatises he seized as being beyond his com
prehension, were in very bad hands and in
very bad company, and that they were be-
ing purchased by persons who, like himself,
comprehended nothing in them except the
passages susceptible of being perverted to
pruriency. We have not any knowledge of
“ Paris by Gaslight,” “ Dark Deeds Un-
ravelled,” or “The Disclosures of a Barris-
ter,” but we daresay they were very proper
for seizure, and quite in keeping with
Ovid’s “Art of Love,” “Maria Monk”—a
work highly esteemed in Wesleyan circles —
“The Decameron” of Bocaccio, the Me-
moirs of the Count de Qrammoxt, and the
“ Heptameron ” of Queen Mabgaret of
Anjou, or the works of Rauelais— a
seizure of copies of which last-mentioned
four might probably be accomplished were
the zealous Inspector to make a descent
upon Government House or the residence
of any of their Honors the Judges of the
Supreme Court. The plain fact is that the
height of absurdity is arrived at in placing
the grown men of the community under
the literary censorship of a pious peeler.
There are literary treatises which, like
strong waters, should not be sold to chil-
dren. And if a censorship of books be
needed, common sense demands that some
person of competent knowledge should dis-
charge the functions.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Champion of Truth.
A conference has recently been held in Sydney
by persons claiming to represent the Secularists of
Australia. We have not read the reports of their
proceedings with any care, but we are disposed,
apart from any considerations based upon the
quality of the utterances at the meetings in ques-
tion, to agree with the Rev. Mr. Jefferis that
these meetings did not represent the strength of
Secularism in Australia. The strength of Secular-
ism or of Freethought in Australia has, we believe,
a personnel quite distinct from, and infinitely more
numerous than the few thousands who crowded
the meetings under the Iradership of Mr. Joseph
Symes. The majority of Freethinkers are cool and
philosophical persona, who act upon their favour-
ite motto that “ truth is great and must prevail,”
and hold aloof from agitationsand demonstrations.
The churches are full of Freethinkers, who pay
their pew-rents, and, at least, send their women
foil; s and children—content with the national pro-
gress of liberal thought, and comfortable in the
conviction that the teachings of Dogmatism aro
rendered innocuous by the overwhelming iniluence
of the spirit of the age. The philosophic Frt ethinker
when asked whether he is not concerned lest his
youngsters should be indoctrinated with dogma,
and suffer injury to their powers of reasoning by
being dosed with miraculous stories—such as
those about Jonah and the whale, and the she-
bears which gobbled up ancient larrikins-opines
that he can afford to smile at the question. For
every ten men who ciro to disturb their social
connections by announcing their divergence from
ideas and systems, tacit compliance with which
yields still many advantages, there are hundreds
who shrug their shoulders, and ask what's the use
of fussing ? The leaven is working. No one is so
ignorant of the real condition of the public faith
as clergymen, who occupy, in this respect, a posi-
tion analogous to that of a cuckold husband. For
our own part, wo like “the other 6ide” to be
heard on all questions-politic.il, religious, and
social—and, as the Secularists have had a consider-
able space allotted to their views lately in the
daily Press, we can’t do better than select the most
striking and powerful passages from the best de-
liverance of! the mo3t pronounced of their critics,
for the information of readers. We select the dis-
course of the Rev. John Osborne for this distinc-
tion, and would willingly give the reasoning of
his sermon of Sunday last. But after reading
Carefully the synopsis of his discourse as for-
warded (probably by himself) to the daily
newspaper to which is attached, we observe
that the rev. gentleman has preferred—no doubt
for reasons satisfactory to himself—strength of
language to strength of argument. It will be but
just, therefore, to draw upon the department in
which his best strength seems to lie, and to give a
series of his most trenchant points. Thus we find
that Mr. Osborne remarked that—
“ Just as the political term ‘sansculotte’ under-
went a terrible transformation, and from being an
honourable though an unfashionable designation
became a synonym for ignorance and infamy, so
it was with the term secularism.”
Then, with regard to the lectures of that opposi-
tion professional, Mr. Syme, the rev. gentleman
states that
“As an intellectual performance, each lecture was
an insult to human intelligence, and a travestie on
the art of reasoning. No one but a hopeless fool
would, in these days, dogmatise on the inscrut-
able mystery of the origin and ultimate issue of
life. . . . The lecture on heaven was a tirade of
vulgar abuse; and the lecture on secularism was
an undigested mass of stupid dogmatism. . . The
rubbish that was uttered was in keeping with the
general performances of the secularist platform.
... It was the apotheosis ot ilunkeyism, and
stupidity, and charlatanism, and the performance
stamped secularism as a religion of ignorance.
But the system was also the religion of malice.
There wus, probably, not another system in the
world that was more vindictive, and its existence
was almost an d priori proof of the existence of
the devil.”
Next:—
“ The literature of the sect was another proof.
The ephemeral publication l : of the secularists wete
a disgrace to our civilisation, not chiefly for their
suggestions of the grossest impurities, although
they were a prominent feature, but for the devilry
and malignaut hatred of mankind with which they
were charged.”
Then Mr. Osborne asked his congregation:—
“ Did they not know very well that if the secular-
ists got the upper hand in Australia they would
repeat in this lair land the horrors and crimes that
wore enacted during the Reign of Terror ? ”
He went onto inform thGm that
“The antiquity of secularism was very great
. . . and it attained its full development in the
old world in Sodom and Gomorrah.”
Also that
“A prostitute for agoddeB3 represented the eter-
nal fitness of things so far as secularism whs con-
cerned. It is a religion of filth and infamy.”
What we admire about these utterances is their
dispassionate and philosophical cilmness, and the
fine elevation of morale which they evince. No-
thing can be nobler, for example, than Mr. Os-
borne's denunciation of “a tirade of vulgar
abuse,” and nothing could be more effective than
the contrast afforded by the repose and cour-
tesy of his own style, as illustrated by the above
quotations, which constitute about one-fifth of his
address as published in his paper. We regardjtheso
deliverances as bold, and elevated, and powerful,
or, in other words, we may put it that they are as
high and strong as game.
Be s and Wasps.—Honey and Sulphur.
We read that “at the parish church of Storr-
mouth, Kent, a swarm of bees some time ago
romantically settled in the roof of the chancel.
This came to the knowledge of the Vicar, but he
would never allow the sanctity of the bees' retreat
to be disturbed, and so they were left alone, no
idea being formed as to the extent of the hive.
Recently, however, the Vicar died, the church
underwent repairs, and the bees, no longer
destined to remain in possession of their quarters,
were destroyed by .fumigation. On the honey
being taken, there was found to be nearly two
hundredweight of it, and the bees tilled two
moderately large barrels. Tt is stated that during
hot weather the honey used to drop down into the
church.” No wonder. The bees, in gratitude,
still further sweetened the words of peace which
Tell from the faltering tongue of the kind old
clergyman. The swarm, we believe, was the same
which fed our ancient friend ’Peter Campbell,
when he dietGd on locusts and wild honey and
preached the Gospel in the Barcoo and Tambo
wilderness. And, by the way, were this bee-story
not given as a fact, we should have read it as a
parable. In some churches not far from Sydney
swarms, not of bees, but of clerical wasps, build
their nests, and scorpions crawl aloDg the floor.
And when, in the Stourmouth case, the peaceful
Vicar died, and the old order gave place unto the
new, the ascending sulphur-fumes which killed
the bees and robbed the congregation of the de-
scending honey, may possibly have typified that
hate of the professors of alien faiths and that wor-
ship of respectability and love of luxurious
material comfort which, in this nineteenth cen-
tury, characterise too many of the clergy, and
renders our so-called Christianity a mere carica-
ture of the grand religion founded by the Man
who had no place in which to lay his head.
Civilising 1 the Nigger.
The other day there came before the House of
Commons a paper referring in an incidental kind
of way to the complaints made in reference to the
treatment of aboriginals at Rottnest Prison,
Western Australia. It seems from the British
Parliamentary reports that this trifling affair has
been cleared up to the complete satisfaction of
the colonial officials; that there have been a few
slight informalities and small irregularities—but
that the matter has been “ duly seen to,” and that
—ah, yes, aw—His Excellency the Governor of
W.A. will shortly be in London and will have a
quiet chat with the Secretary of State for
the Colonies. From all this, one would think that
Rottnest Prison had not for years past been a hell
upon earth—that the wretched aborigines en-
tombed therein had not been dying all the time
like fluky sheep—that they had not rotted in
chains of fever generated by tilth and overcrowd-
ing and bad food. And for what offences? Killing
a sheep or a bullock on land of which they had
been deprived by the whites, or trying to kill a
white man who had outraged their women. Let
no one imagine for an instant that in Western
Australia a blaekfellow who had killed a white,
under whatever provocation, was ever allowed to
go unhung if he could be caught. How often
have we read in the S.M. Herald a telegram
something like this The Sheriff and his assist-
ants to-day proceeded to , to prepare for the
execution of Jackey and Tommy, who are to be
haDged on the 20th iostant for murdering a stock-
man in the employ of Mr. Brown, J.P., of Jones’
Plains Station ?” If the blacks of Western Aus-
tralia are human beings and have souls, then
those who are responsible for the treatment they
have received are murderers as base and brutal as
any who ever were throttled by the hangman.
The history of the Black-hole of Calcutta, in which
a few whites were smothered by a blood-thirsty
and tyrannical Indian despot, is written in let-
ters of blood, and known to every school-boy.
But what English schoolboy knows of the hideous
cruelties which in the name of law and of justice
have in modern days been wreaked on the unhappy
natives of Western Australia and Queensland ?
We don’t say anything about those of N.S.W. and
Victoria. They have gone down to the pit. The
following will suffice to show the iniquities which
can be perpetrated under the British flag by
irresponsible officials of Crown colonies. In 1881
certain Forest laws were “ ordained ” in Mauritius,
and at once became a means of inflicting great
injustice on the Indian population. Governor
Hennessy states that he found that an Indian for
having in his possession a piece of brushwood a
few inches long, which he used as a toothpick, had
been fined 50 rupees, or ten days’ imprisonment.
This was far from being an isolated case. The
word “tree” in the ordinance was so defined tnat
the possession of a single twig involved an Indian
in a fine of 50 rupees; and in one instance cumula-
tive penalties amounting to 1000 rupees—with the
alternative of two hundred days’imprisonment—
were imposed upon an Indian who had about him
a small bundle of twigs, not worth a shilling.
“I found,” Sir John Pope Hennessy says, “that
this legislation had come upon the Indian popula-
tion like a sort of social hurricane, breaking up
homes and families, and sending men, women, and
children to prison who had been well-conducted
and industrious.” In the year 1882 the aggregate
fines inflicted for offences of this nature amounted
to 108,544 rupees, and the amount of imprisonment
served in lieu of the unpaid fines was 21,741 days.
Hell can only have been invented for the authors
of cruelties such as this. The missionary and Jack
Ketch often keep step well under the “ flag that’s
braved,” &c.
♦
Mr. Stuart’s Illness.
We believe that the tidings of Mr. Stuart's severe
illness will be received with genuine concern
throughout the colony. Up to the present time,
the manner in which the hon. gentleman has con-
ducted the affairs of the country has been,
although not illuminated by the flashy sensation-
alism of some of his predecessors, straightforward
and conscientious. Mr. Stuart, as Premier, has
already done much to rehabilitate the confidence
For continuation of “ Plain English,” see next page.


of colonists in their system of Government,
which had, in perhaps abler hands than his,
begun to stink in the nostrils of the public, as a
system from which constantly emanated an odour
of corruption. During all the period of Mr.
Stuart's Premiership, up to the present time, his
integrity of purpose has never bten suspected;
bis name has never, even in vulgar rumour, been
connected with allegations of self-seeking or
trafficking. The public seem to have been breath-
ing more freely than at some other periods, when
the air was heavy and oppressive with first one
political scandal and then another. We trust Mr.
Stuart will speedily recover his health suffi-
PARKES versus WEBB.
WHICH?
cientiy to resume his public functions, and we
believe that this wish will be re-echoed through-
out the colony. We have constantly criticised the
course of his administration without favour or
reserve, and we ask nothing better than the oppor-
tunity of continuing to offer criticisms on details,
while being able, broadly speaking, to concede
respect.
♦
Eight Hours.
n his speech at the banquet in connection with
6 eight hours' demonstration, the Colonial Trea-
surer dwelt with obvious appreciation upon the
act that einht hours is far short of the ordinary
ime devoted to labour by men who make their
Wa y in their world; and he instanced, with ap-
proving emphasis, one person in this colony who
“ had had the highest honours bestowed upon him,
and bad been the guest of Royalty in England,
and yet had started as a working man, toiling for
twelve hours daily till the blood shot from .his
lingers.” It is quite usual for such examples to be
held up before working men as exemplars of what
they should strive to be. But we hold that the sug-
gested principle is essentially vicious. Mr. Came-
ron hit the nail on one of its heads when he re-
marked that if a man worked an unlimited number
of hours for mere greed, he was not so admirable
after all. A nice world this would be were all
working men to strain every nerve to see who
could by working longest get ahead of his fellows I
Life would be absolutely unendurable, and intel-
lectual progress would come to a full stop as
regards the labouring classes. There is too much
deference paid to ancient and fraudulent ideas
that the grasping drudge or greedily ambitious man
is the estimable one, and that thrift and abstinence
leading to the accumulation of capital are among
the cardinal virtues. We, for our part, believe
that moderation is be3t in these, as in most other
things, and that what the average man is capable
of in the way of cheerful exertion is the quantity
which should be exerted to secure the maximum
of comfort and happiness throughout society. As
Mr. W. H. P. Campbell writes, abstinence and
frugality may just as well be a vice as a virtue
when carried to excess. “It may spring not only
from virtuous self-denial and restraint, and a
desire to live frugally and simply, but also from
rapacity and cunning.’’ Plenty of Mr. Dibbs’s
hearers knew that this is true, and that the strenu-
ous worker and narrowly thrifty workman is not
generally impelled by virtuous unselfishness, but
often develops into the grinding master and osten-
tatious parvenu— too proud to remember bis old
associates, but not too proud to fawn or cringe in
pursuit of what are ridiculously termed “ the
highest honours.” We assert that no human being
can confer honour on another. Honour is a virtue.
Even a monarch can no more confer honour upon
a grasping Gradgrind than he could confer virtue
upon a retired courtezan.
Jack on the Bench.
The sudden apparition of John Davies, C.M.G.,
J.P , on the Bench at Campbelltown, charged ap-
parently with the mission of “taking no part in
the proceedings ” instituted by Sir Henry Parkes
against Mr. Webb, of the local paper, for alleged
libel, was almost as phenomenal and unexpected
as though the Kiama Ghost in person had ascended
the judgment-seat, and thrown the weird terror of
its countenance upon the magistrates who did
take an active part in the proceedings.
On the Bench, on that occasion, Mr. Davies
much resembled the proverbial tly in amber,
so far as the exciting curiosity as to how he got
there is concerned, although there will be little
doubt as to why he popped up. Considering, also,
that Mr. Webb was known to be a probable can-
didate for the constituency, in an anti-PARKES-
Davies-Kidman sense, at the first opportunity—if
the Mr. Kidman who helped Mr. Davies to “take
no part in the proceedings ” be identical with Mr
Kidman, member for the electorate, it certainly
appears that decency would have been better
observed by his absence.
Sir Henry Parkes has opened his mind to the
inhabitants of Cudal, a village which is said to be
somewhere towards the Western border of the
colony. Tenterfleld is on the Northern boundary.
Sir Henry's habit of going to extremes, and
dodging out of the way of the main centres of
population, is very significant. He has of late so
much favoured the outskirts of civilisation, that
it would be appropriate to consider him one of the
colony’s hangers-on.
The Rates or Subscription to The Bulletin
ar®—For on© year, 845.; half-year, 12s. od.;
quarter, 6s. od.—ln advance.
The Advertising Crates are 6s. per lnohi
special positions In the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 20 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 62 consecutive insertions, 36 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
undeT £l, postage stamps of any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.


Personal
Items
Mr. Blackburne, the well-known English
chess-player, whose health Is bad, will probably
winter In Sydney.
The younger sons of the late Lord Petre
pet £13,000 apiece. So that the popular Father
Petre, or N.S. w., is in for a windfall.
Mr. J. R. Coker, who some two years ago
resided for awhile in Sydney, and who had lived iu
Romeo, shot himself dead with a revolver the
other day in a London railway carriage.
Hartmann, the Nihilist, so far from having
died of starvation, as has been alleged, was at
latest i r> London arranging for a great Interna-
tional Convention of Revolutionists, to be held
this month.
Dr. Burq, who invented the copper-
treatment for cholera, is dead. He was an Irish-
man, and his name was Burke, but he preferred to
Gallicise that appellation. The idea of carrying
pennies covered with verdigris next to the skin
suggested “the Wearing of the Green."
Mr. Lecocq is writing a new opera, “ The
Student of’’—Something, and the name of the
librettist is being kept a strict secret. It is gene-
rally considered, however, in Toowoomba that
Leigh, of the Darling Downs Gazette, is the
dark lyrical playwright in question. He has been
reserved of late, and a musical rhythm has been
detected in his hiccup.
We regret to see that the O’Sullivan is
under a cold cloud of suspicion at the present
time. The coal lumpers say he only wants to make
use of them for his own little advantage. Pshaw!
What he, that patriot, utilise
; The coal vote for his need,
Then shunt the voters ? Well, now, this
Is fuelishness, indeed.
It is melancholy to look back. Of the
never-to-be-forgotten London Comedy Company,
which clayed in Sydney some four years ago, Mr.
Roberts, Mrs. Marshall, and Mrs. Garner are all
dead. Poor Fred. Marshall is permanently dis-
abled. Mr. Edwin Shepherd, the ‘clerical gentle-
man” of the company, is, however, still alive and
In good form. Ho has been provident and fairly
lucky, and lives comfortably in London.
Truth says that the appointment of Rear-
Admiral Tryon, C. 8., to the Australian station is
another of those jobs by which the present Hoard
of Admiralty has obtained so unenviable a no-
toriety. This fortunate officer is one of the
juniors on the list, and he is lifted over the heads
of no fewer than sixteen senior officers of the
VIEW OF ANGRA PEQUENA, SOUTH AFRICA—GERMANY’S LATEST “ANNEX.”
Same rank. Admiral Tryon is, of course, indebted
for his good luok to the fact that for some time he
acted as secretary at Whitehall.
IS HE?
Joseph will not make his fortun’,
Eor Creswellis not Arthur Orton;
Though who he is, this cove insane.
Appears quite far from being plain.
Two claim him-though he’s nothing loth—
He hardly really can be both,
Unless (we hope the right side wins)
Mad Oresweii turns out to bo twins.
Mr. Henry George, writing from New
York, says: “ Have you seen Morrison Davidson’s
• New Book of Kings ’ ? It would be a great thing
if hundreds of thousands of copies could be
scattered broadcast over England.” George once
tried gold-iigging and failei. Then he returned
to work as a compositor on the California Times.
The excellence of some letters dropped by him
into the editorial box, led to his being offered a
literary appointment; three months later he was
editor of the paper.
It is stated in London that a marriage has
been arranged, or has actually taken place, be-
tween a very well-known actress (who has been
more than once in the colonies, and is platonically
lo”ed by us all, though she has already had more
than one husband) and the fascinating son of the
proprietor of a particularly well-advertised brand
of soap. This announcement will or should con-
siderably put out of joint the noses of several
Sydney and Melbourne men. Need we say that
the lady is but, never.
James Somerville is a great name in Kiama.
James Somerville is the Council Clerk. James
Somerville is the Treasurer of the Borough. James
Somerville is tne Librarian. James Somerville is
the Inspector of Works. It is whispered, indeed,
that—but, perhaps, you will like it better this
way:—
This Somerville, as you can see,
Is in himself a host;
They say—but keep it dark!—that he
Js the Kiama Ghost!
General Brine safely crossed the Channel
In a balloon. Had he failed, it would have been a
case not of dust to dust, but of Brine to the briny.
To read the papers, one would imagine that the
General “ did it all Himself.” But the fact is that
iathtir adoration of a man of rank the reporters
as a rule have forgotten to say that ho was accom-
panied by Mr. Dale, the well-known aeronaut. It s
the same old story-the Emperor Commodus fight-
ing for h*B life with the beasts in the amphitheatre
drew a bigger crowd and excited more applause
than the “ base-born” gladiator.
Mr Charles W. Costin has been appointed
clerk in the office of the Queensland Legislative
Assembly Dizzy as is the altitude of this pinnacle
of fame, wo Bhould probably have overlooked the
g.orious intelligence that Mr. Costin had attained
to it if we had hot learnt at the same time that Mr.
Co .fin is-or has been, for he is now respectable- -a
iournalist. It is with strangely mingled feelings
of pride and wonder that we record this tact. jNp w
we shall be able to hurl back in tho teeth bote
who asperse our noble profession the tftifnt that
no journalist dies sober. This is joy enottgh for
us whatever befal.
It is not generally known—and there is no
reason why it should be-that the (gratae writes to
the Mudgee Independent under the signature of
“ Amos Keeter.” As several apple-women appear
to take an interest in “ A.G ” at present, we will
givea couple of specimens of lis style: —“ I went
to the aquatic meeting at the Oxford Hotel the
other evening, just"to study life in a new phase to
me. I saw those scullists (sic) of great renown—
Beach and Hanlan. . . . The contest won’t be a
picnic nohow, so lovers of honest sport will in the
coming events enjoy some honest sport.” If Mr.
Tajlor * ere not a gifted politician, what a splendid
hand he would be at carting—sheepsheads.
The Countess de la Torre has been “up ”
again for disobeying an English magisterial order
directed against her cats and dogs, and been fined
108. for every day on which she had continued to
diBre T ard the order. An inspector of nuisances
said he had examined the Countess's premises,
found eight cats and one kitten in the passage and
on the stairs, one cat on the first floor, three cats
in the front kitchen, and a dead cat in the back;
he also saw seven dogs—four in the garden, and
three in the house; there were altogether twenty-
one animals, and the smell was most offensive.
The Countess said she only owned three cats. She
couldn’t help strange cats coming. “ There, now I”
Mr. (le Freyne Ffrench, F.R.G.S., is coming
out from London in August, to head an exploring
party through the Kimberley (W.A.) district. We
will bet on one of two things—either that he will
start with an ou’fit of twenty-four portmanteaus,
two or three camp-stool B , half a-dozen hat-boxes,
an . a marquee ; or that he will have his skin
Stained black in a permanent dye, his hair mixed
with tar and done into a design in oakum twists,
and a fishbone stuck through his nose. They are
so enthusiastic, them scientific gentlemen! This
little badinage apart, however, Mr. de Freyne
Ffrench will be safe among the blacks as loDg as he
is discreet. But the first time he tells them his
name they will kill him.
Several young ladies in Sydney will be de-
lighted to hoar that Prince George of Wales took
almost the highest marks ever yet awarded to a
midshioman passing for acting sub-lieutenant—
viz., 975 out of 1000. A home paper “wishes his
examining officers had given i im the remaining
25, and then everyone would have had the proud
satisfaction < f thinking that our young sailor
Prince has a perfect repertoire of knowledge i
nautical matters. Seriously, Prince George is a
bright, clever boy, with abilities neither much
above nor below the average, and no little sur-
prise and amusement have been caused in the ser-
vice a-enerally at the action ot his examining offi-
cers in awarding him almost full marks.”
Parkes, like the girl in the story whose
idiotic fringe hung over her forehead, is, when he
is good, oh! so very good; but when he is bad, he
is horrid. He was very, very good (constitution-
ally) when he pointed out Stuart’s departure from
the right and proper course in allowing a private
member on a Government day to submit a motion
for the expenditure of public money on a x im-
portant matter, and then getting one of his col-
leagues to moye an amendment. Stuart might say
that his error, b g as it wa9, wasn’t quite so big as
expending money on an important matter without
gettir.g the House’s consent to it either by a normal
or an abnormal course—tests; those statues, and
the Governor’s country house, &c. Yes; Parkes
can also be horrid.
Information has reached Liverpool (Eng.),
of the discovery in the bush at Lagos, West Africa,
of twelve skeletons, mostly of persons who had
mysteriously disappeared. Several were the re-
mains of the wives of leading- merchants. In
Australia and other properly civilised places, when
the wife of a leading- merchant mysteriously dis-
appears, he carefully keeps her skeleton in the
family cupboard. Tom rtaughton, mining en-
gineer, late of Charters Towers, Queensland, has
just returned to London from West Africa, where
he had for several months been looking after cer-
tain alleged gold mines. Tom tells some wondrous
tales of Tong-buried cities, and corpses interred in
coffins holding countless thousands in gold. He
promises that he will give us his yarn in full.
There is a singular character going about
the country districts on a temperance tour. His
namo is Willie Steel, and he is Scotch, but honest.
He travels from town to town wheeling his
worldly goods in a barrow—which, as we have seen
him, we consider ostentatious, as he might very
well carry them in the toe of his boot. He wears a
plaid tunic with red and blue facings—a fancy of
his own, symbolising in some mysterious way to
him purity of purpose, we suppose. He sings
Scotch songs of a devotional aud improving
character in a fiendish falsetto that fills the heart
of the hearer with ferocity and gloom. His advent
in a town is the signal for every adult citizen to
get dangerously drunk and smite his family with
the fire-shovel Willie Steel is, therefore, a very
popular personage among the publicans.
Laycoclc, who killed his wife and four
children at Sheffield by almost cutting their heads
elf, has been sentenced to death. A surgeon who
hud attended prisoner said he considered Laycock
was, at the time, not in his right mind. It was
shown that prisoner's father and two brothers had
committed suicide; so, should he be executed, the
act of the Government will be on a level with
that of the N.S.W, Ministry when it ordered the
execution of the monomaniac, O’Farrell, who shot
at H.tt.H. the Duke of Edinburgh. Six of
O’Farrell’s near relatives are in lunatic asylums or
have suicided. Hy the way, how about the Kiama
Ghost now, and what is the name of the swell
Sydney club which refused to admit within its
sacred precincts the late Mr. Butler Cole Aspinall,
Q.C., because he was about to defend the miser-
able lunatic who shot at Prince Alfred ?
Lots of good stories are told about Bobby
Byrne, of Queensland Punch, and among them
Is one to the effect that, once upon a time, when
he wished, out of pure cussedness, to further
excite the demon of jealousy within the breast of
a numbskull who had a pr rtty actross for a wife,
he went with the unhappy husband to the theatre
where the lady was playing. During the third act,
where the lover had to talk confidentially to the
lady, Bobby viciously dug his friend in the ribs
with his thumb, and exclaimed: “Look, old man 1
See there! That d scoundrel of a is putting
his arm round your wile’s waisti Look at that
just! He’s squeezing her! His infernal impu-
dence! It's not in the Performance, 1 assure you.
See—here’s the book of the play.’’ And, as Bobby
had carefully posted on the other side of the hue-
band a fellow who. whenever the stage lover went
near the “missis’’ of the gentleman in the pit,
raised his eyebrows, and said, “Tut! Tut!! Dear
mel Dearmell Humph!” they soon had worked
the actress’ husband into a condition of absolute
lunacy.
The “ moon-faced bookmaker,” Alfred
Joseph, has again been elected to a seat in the
Sandhurst City Council. He had a close run, but
was carried in triumphant on a tide of whisky. He
has long regarded himself as a worthy candidate
for the Mayoral chair, and to attain that exalted
post has gone to no end of trouble and expense.
But a canvass of his colleagues revealed the un-
welcome fact that they drew the line at book-
makers. They made no pretence to fastidiousness,
but the picture of Alfred one day on the judicial
bench and the next in the paddock at Flemington,
bawling “Three to one bar one,” was too much
glory even for them. The ambitious Alfred, there-
fore, to avoid the publicity of defeat, wrote to the
Town Clerk to the effect that if he (Alfred) were
appointed Mayor, he would be reluctantly com-
pelled at present to decline the honour. Why, we
should say so. What a. pretty dilemma he would
be in if he were appointed, and half-a-dozen
Welsherswere brought before him for sentence!
Of course, he would have to convict them; but
how would it paralyse the Court if one of them,
after receiving sentence, were to turn round and
say to him, “All right, Alfred; wait till we see
you a headin’ of ’em again -we’ll put you away.”
Mr. J. P. Quirk, of Melbourne, writes to
the Standard that at Belfast, travelling with his
wife and sister, he was accosted on the wharf by a
policeman, who asked him “ Whether that was his
luggage ?” On being informed that it was, the
constable enquired where the traveller came from.
Mr. Quirk replied, “ From Australia;” and, having
further told “Robert.” in answer to a question as
to his business, that he had no business, and was
ti-avelling for pleasure, it was intimated to him
that the portmanteaus would have to be opened.
“ While this conversation was taking place,” writes
Mr. Quirk (who, by the way, is a brother-in-law of
the eminent Doctor “ Pat.” Molony, of literary and
convivial celebrity), “a crowd of about fifty idlers
congregated about us, who evidently looked upon
me as a blood-thirsty Fenian or a returned in-
former, After turning the contents of my port-
manteaus out, and finding nothing that looked
suspicious but a bottle of hair-wash in a wooden
case, which the policeman opened very gingerly,
he wished me ‘ good day,’ and left me to pack and
strap up my things again. What I wish to point
out is—Would it not be better for intending tour-
ists to Ireland to obtain passports, which would, I
have no doubt, prevent them from going through
similar experiences ?” We contend that the police-
man was perfectly justified in regarding with much
suspicion Mr. Quirk’s “bottle of hair-wash,” as
such things often point to the proprietor thereof
as a person who has reasonable fears that he will
one day be abald-headed man. “ Hair-wash,” too,
is often a mere euphuism for hair-dye, and we are
sure that the people of this great Continent would
stromrly approve of any Australian who carried
hair-dye being delivered into the hands of Justice.
Lily Evans alias “ The Liliputian Wonder,”
said to be “ the smallest midget in the world,” has
died suddenly at Birmingham (Eng.), death being
attributed to excessive fatigue caused by numer-
ous “ performances.” The child, who weighed a
pound and a quarter, was only 9 inches in length,
the body, however, being perfectly formed. The
parents, who had previously had several healthy
full-grown children, hired out the “ Liliputian” for
30s. a week to a “showman of monstrosities,” who
exhibited it at a hall. The “ levees” commenced at
9 a.m. and continued until midnight, the midget
being shown to the audience several times an hour
by the wife of the showman, who would “ challenge
the world to find so diminutive a midget, and for-
feit £lOO if beaten.” The child had been born pre-
maturely. At the inquest it transpired that the
wretched infant had been kept awake for exhibi-
tion purposes: that it had in attendance on it a
woman who—O tawdriness, what crimes are com-
mitted in thy name!—was engaged by the show-
man as dressmaker and attendant on the midget,
and had to make a new dress, silk, satin, and
coloured, every day for the child; that the mid-
get’s mother was drunk nearly all the time, “as
Bhe received a lot of money from the showman;’
and that when the mother was drunk the child was
fed on “ scalded biscuits.” In reply to the coroner
the mother said she intended to bury the body,
because she was now told it was “ too far gone;”
she spoke to the showman about it, who said she
could get £3O for the body: she would have sold it
if she tnought she was allowed to do so, but did not
understand the law. The coroner remarked that
the case was an extraordinary one: the mother,
not s itisfled with kdling the child, was anxious to
make money out of ihe dead body. The jury re-
turned a verdict equivalent to manslaughter.
As we pass through the wilderness of this
world and hear the howling of dragons across the
arid plains, how sweet should the shining ones
Hitting by but send an echo of their strain to reach
our woe-stricken earl Not such is the happy late
of the pilgrims who progress through Maitland.
Some of them feared Apollyon who straddled
across the way, aud had hoped that utter destruc-
tion might not be their lot. But the Kev. Tarring-
ton, who might be mistaken for an angel of light,
except that he wears a black waistcoat buttoned
at the back to give fair play to his four little meals
in front, has been proving concerning the Athana-
sian Creed “ that the damnatory clauses were fully
warranted by Scripture, and stated that he never
had any difficulty in accepting the Creed in its
entirety.” And the pilgrims are in the Slough of
Despond. He followed up the lecture by preaching
last Sunday on the Scriptural beauty of everlasting
punishment. For the benefit of our readers who
have forgotten (and most of them have) what the
Athanasian Creed is, we may state that it is an
affirmation that whoever does not believe what
gome unknown and crack-brained dervish of a
thousand years ago maundered about, will, without
doubt, perish everlastingly. And the Kev. Yar-
rington had “ never any difficulty in accepting
that creed in its entirety.” Should think not. Nor
a cure of souls that are incurable. His cure is a
blister, it seems. Never heard before of a blister
for burns.—
The history of this dev’lish tale
To any one who's read it,
Makes span-long babes in hell to wail
(For St. Augustine said it).
It tells how dusky races, who
Were never told to dread it,
Must burn eternal ages through
(Another dervish said it).
But we have nothing more to fear
(Print caps., dear comp., and lead it);
We're damned; for Yarrinton is here,
And he himself has said it.
Captain Armstrong may now haul down
his little flag for ever. His case has been taken up
by the Distress. And this reminds us, that the
journal in question is very angry with us, indeed,
and lays for us in true holy fashion. When Mr. J.
G. O’Connor announced his “new departure”
(which appears to consist chiefly of a green cover
and a sporting [! I article), we wrote, as is our
cheerful wont, a mild little congratulatory par.,
in return for which we certainly expected to re-
ceive, instead of a vial of wrath, a quart bottle of
“cold-drawn ” holy water. The Distress, however,
treats us unkindly, and calls us The Bully tin,
and other cruel names, and crushes us Anally with
the following indignant retort“ If Mr. J. G.
O’Connor wished to stop the publication of SYDNeY
Punch that was his business, and he knows his
own business best.” Of course he does, bless him 1
In our par. we said that Punch was “brilliantly
successful,” and now (for the iron has entered our
soul) we are willing to admit that J. G. squelched
that screaming publication in (as they say in the
playbills) “the highest tide of its success.” The
reason for this was obvious: Mr. O’Connor had
conscientious scruples against acquiring opulence
too soon. This superfine self-denial on his part,
inspires us equally with astonishment and admira-
tion, and we should be the last to scoff at his laud-
able endeavours to enter heaven by struggling
through the eye of the camel. We trust in future
therefore, that the Distress (in which, as J. U.
triumphantly points out, is incorporated the
Catholic Times !) will spare our feelings. Though,
perhaps, not exactly “soft,” we are, undeniably,
tender. The paper appears to be getting on vei-y
nicely. It sports a full page ad., of a glittering
publication shortly to appear (which is to contain
a “ thrilling story by the late Charles Dickens
never before published in Australia ”), and is illus-
trated in a style that is decidedly novel. Nothing
succeeds like success; and success, though pleasant
to reflect upon, is a bad thing to get drunk ou. Id
is even better to get drunk on rum than success—
though it generally occurs that the man who is
wildly successful begins by getting orunk on suc-
cess, and winds up by getting drunk on rum. So
far as Mr. O’Connor is concerned, we do not think
it probable that he will, during the l'emainder of
this century, attain intoxication on success, though
(since he belongs to a religious paper) it is impos-
sible for us, despite the sobriety of his past career,
to answer for the rum.
King Tawhiao’s artless farewell speech at
London Mansion-house was full of delicious double
entendre: —“ My Lord Mayor, Salutations. Here I
am speaking in your presence, in your own dwell-
ling, in the midst of your own people, where you
are living under the dominion of justice, with the
Houses of Parliament living under the same rule.
The thing which has brought us here I have very
much at heart. It was through my constant effort
that we came here. We had been here only one
month when New Zealand and all our lands were
lost to us; and now we have been here two months
and a half, and we have heard the words that we
are to return and Te Wheoro is to remain. I am
not at all condemning this. I think it is quite a
proper arrangement. All the things have been
brought together under one head, and th« whole
thing has been laid down at your feet. We have
left nothing whatever unsaid. It is quite right
that you should look after the affairs of New
Zealand, and that Te Wheoro should remain to
keep you enlightened in these matters. We have
come to this country, and our coming here has
been a cause of life again to New Zealand. There-
fore, we have said these words that the very
Queen herself should cherish and embrace us and
give us life 'again. Though you look at me and
see that my faoe is dark, yet my heart is, like the
‘ pounamu,’ clear and transparent, and there is no
warfare in my heart. Here I am, returning to my
country. I freely open out my heart to you,
knowing that our affairs will be carried on here.
This is the greatest word of all—Love, love. It is
love which has caused us to be called to the* houses
of ladies and gentlemen. I wish to say a word
about a person sitting here (Mr. Hilton), whose
action has gone right to my heart. I will carry
back to my own people the work of a Good Tem-
plar. Remain you here to make things clear and
bright, and let your light be diffused abroad.
Great is your love; great is your kindness; great
is your uprightness; groat is your charity: and we
thank you for cherishing us. We have come here
to bid you all farewell, leaving one of our number
while we go away and return to our own country.
Dwell aere in your place. May God help you.
Pater Tuhi (the King's cousin) and Major Te
Wheoro also spoke in similar terms. At the close
of the proceedings, tea and coffee were served to
the assembled guests. The King, on retiring,
grasped the Lord Mayor very fervently by the
hand, and said: “I shall ever keep you in remem-
brance. God bless you." This is from the Daily
News The London D. T. report, however, avers
that the King again wound up with “God hell
you I”—which, as he was addressing a Lord Mayor,
seems very probable indeed.
We really are doomed to be unfortunate
in regard to our relations with our country con-
temporaries. It seems to be our unhappy lotto
offend a paper just as we are beginning 10 like it-
With regard to that splendid specimen of journal-
ism, the Cooktown Independent, this is especi-
ally the case. We have always taken a sad and
sympathetic interest in the worthy old journalist
who conducts the Independent, and have had
frequent occasion to weep over his sufferings, and
mourn over his wrongs. And what, think you, is
our reward for the pity (unexpressed, certainly!
that we have felt for this poor, hysterical old alli-
gator? Abuse! He calls the members of this
staff “larrikins,” and speaks of the editor (whose
name is usually only mentioned with bated breatni
without the complimentary prefix. However, we
must forgive him. No man who has the editor oi
the Independent's cross to bear could reasonably
expect to be blessed with an equable tempera-
ment. No sooner is his paper out, than unless ne
hides himself in a tank, or sandwiches himselt De-
tween two mattresses, the fun begins. No sooner
is be in the street than an air of angry abstraction
comes over the populace, and the face of every
man he encounters is tied in a knot There is a
rumour that he imparts secret instructions to ms
tailor to pad the back of his coats witn
bookß, and that for the last 25 years he has no
worn a pair of pants that were not block-tin seate
and copper-fastened. Whenever he writes a
graph about a man that the man doesn't like, to
libelled one goes at once to consult hissoiicito .
He does not Droach with the man of law u
question of damages, but that of how much ne ca
“take out” of the editorial cayman for forty so
lings. When advised upon that subject, he wa
about until the editor <jomes plunging into i
pub., and then hits him oa the nose. If he , w^ l ft n
about the survey depart ment, the survey m
lands him in the jaw; and, should he treat
readers to an interesting item concerning
dredge, the captain of that aromatic craft litts u
under the ear. Nine days out of ten he nas


INVALUABLE TO DYSPEPTICS.
Heath Bank, Sandridge.
Dear Sir?,—l have during the last few weeks
advised several patients to try your
Bavarian llnp Bitters.
Tne result has been uniformly favourable. In
dyspeptic cases of long standing they will prove
iuvaluable.—Yours sincerely,
FRANCIS CH BETH AM, L. et L. Mid., R.C.P., Edin.
When the brain is wearied, the nerves un-
strung, the muscles weak, use Hop Bitters. Read.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
M eda/s Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gog
Aether Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
C. COHLES,
GUNMAKER & IMPORTER.
m!
_ . Sole Agent for
W. & a SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
_ For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
* 3 in Australia.
AMMUNITION. SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs 1 y London workmer.
C. COWL Els, 407 GEORGE oTREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
Travers Vegetable Compound
COPYRIGHTED.
■o**
COPYRIGHTED
“THOUSANDS OF LADIES
Can gladly testify that Mrs. Travers' Compound
does all that it claims to do."
(kt“lls purpose i» Solely f>r the legitimate healing of disease
find the relief of pain, it is prompt in notion.
LOUISA R. TRAVERS
VEGETABLE COMPOUND
IS A POSITIVE REMEDY
For all those Complaints and Weaknesses so common to
our best Female population.
Price, 10s. 6d. per Package.
Cs*Ladies, it will under all circumstances, act in harmony
With tile laws that govern ycur system.
C3*That feeling of bearing down, causing pain, weight, and
backache, is always permanently cured by its use.
IT IS A GREAT MEDICAL DISCOVERY
CEr*ltis a Blessing to overworked women, and its gales are
unprocodente 1. 11 removes faintness, flatulency, all craving
for stimulants, and relieves weakness of the stomach. Periods
passed without paki.«£3
Physicians Use it and Prescribe it.
revives the drooping soirits. invigorates and har-
hloiiiXetf the organic functions, gives elasticity and firmness to
the step, restores the natural lustre to the eye, and plants on
the pale cheek o f woman the fresh roses of life’s spring and
early summer time.
ITS MERITS KEEP UP THE SALE.
CEy*For the cure of Kidney Complaints of cither sex this
Compound i s unsurpassed.
Mrs. Travers’ 4 ‘ Guide to'Hmlth” will be mailed free to any
lady sending stamp. Letters oflnqulry confidentially answered.
Packets Malleil f'ee from observation on receipt of price.
Address, P.i). 80x,907. Sydney.
MILS. TRAVERS* LIVER PILLS cure Constipation, Bil-
iousness, and Torpidity of the Liver. Price 2s. 6d.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper shouldgeta supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousness, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Rower, Mental and Physical Depression. Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-eslablishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. 639“ CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
ip. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosobodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
nose in splinters and his eye in a sling, and, though
proud of his teeth once, he has so little use for his
molars now, that he carries them in a chamois-
leather bag, slung round his neck with a piece of
shoe-string, on publication days you can hardly,
should he have ventured out, visit any part of the
town without coming across some of him; and
two-thirds of his time is passed in the doctor’s
shop and the Police Court. Well, he’ll die soon,
poor old boy—and here’s his epitaph:—
Pause trav’ller, for beneath this stone
An editor does lie.
Who, when upon this bright earth, had
A permanent black eye.
Adolphus Picard is the name of a new
aspirant to the pewter of poesy. He lives a lus-
trous life in Lauucestou, a town of which the
exports have hitherto been principally barmaids.
We are glad of a fresh name in the world of song.
Our own bards are growing more and more disso-
lute every day, and keep us in a state of constant
doubt as to whether they will write an ode to the
Moon or break the office-windows. They are—we
may as well be frank about it—in a continual con-
dition of oscillation between rum and rhyme, with,
perhaps, an infinitesimal extra bias towards the
rum side. We hope Adolphus is respectable—and
we believe he is, judging from his verse, which is of
a kind that could only be written by one who had
been, from his earliest childhood, in the habit of
regaling himself upon the muffin of piety and the
ginger-beer of godliness. The subject of his poem
is a further proof of his piety. The title in full is
“ The Farewell to Mrs. Hampson, the Evangelistic
Lady.” The first verse opens with the touching
query:—
“ Hast thou realiy left us for good
And gone over to Victoria ?”
After some mental travail, the poet settles down
to the gaunt fact that she has left for good, and
gives himself up to memories sad and sweet. As
thus:—
“ So clear, so sweet, so mild, so true,
Were those words which flowed from thy lips,
Hid we not ourselves heard you,
We would never have believed it.”
And a very proper way to look at it, too. If Mrs.
Hampson had said nothing, it is very probable she
would never have been heard. But even then
Adolphus might still have written:—
“ Thou dost not seem like one of us,
Although thou art in woman's form,
Thy face so mild speaks thou art just,
Thou fearest not the wildest storm.”
The irresistible impression left on us by the last
line is that though Mrs. Hampson may be indiffer-
eit to the fury of the elements, vet she would
quake with terror if she saw the Picard poetry.
But, perhaps, the next verse would reassure her—
“ Bishops, deacons, priests, and parsons,
Cannot help but admiriDg thee,
Each one seems to say, • Mrs. Hampson,
Wilt thou so kindly instruct me ?’ ”
Ah, if we had only Adolphus’ gift of rhyme, what
would we do with it ? Well, now we put the ques-
tion to ourselves, we think we should give it to a
cat-and then drown the cat. We wish we had
more space for quotations from this astonishing
production, but we have not. But though we have
to conclude in a hurry, we can conscientiously say
that, in our opinion, if Adolphus Picard were
rewarded according to his merits, there would not
be sufficient blue-metal in Tasmania with which to
stone him.
MR. PEGLER.
Here is excitement for you It is from a
paper published in the fruitful West that we get
this information. Read it slowly, because it is sad:
—“ The other day whilst Mr. Pegler was driving
into town, the tire of one of his buggy wheels
burst. This might have proved an ugly accident,
but we are glad to say that no serious damage was
done.” There, now! That will tell you about
journalistic enterprise. Let us contribute one
little mite to Mr. Pegler’s fame. So:—
This is the rhyme of Mr. Pegler,
Who goes to take his airing reg’ler,
Whether the day be fine or muggy,
In his double-action patent buggy
With spider wheels—a pride and wonder—
And sits up straight and drives like thunder.
And what is the consequence of this reckless
charioteering? The consequence is that at any
moment Mr. Pegler mav plunge the Solar System
into despair by driving against a stump. He does
not consider that what is sport to him may be
death to us. What should we do if we got up one
morning and—while sipping our little atraightener
—read that Mr. Pegler Had driven over a precipice
to Paradise ? We should probably go home in a
state of gloom and refuse to pay the washerwoman.
In the poignancy of our grief we should not stop
to consider whether there had ever been a neces-
sity lor the existence on earth of anybody of the
name of Pegler. He has fascinated us in some
mysterious way. AVe are in the toils of Pegler.
We shudder to think what would ensue if he
should burst another tire. A dread misgiving
haunts us that our sorrow would vent itself in the
destruction of a policeman’s uniform. Therefore,
we feel compelled to anpeal to the pity of Pegler
in verse of a vacuous character. Void! —
To Mr. Pe o l e r.
(A Remonstrance.)
0, Mr. Pegler, sir!
Tnink of your precious life!
Why risk it thus ?
Think (if you have one) of your wife,
Think of her mother;
Think, sir, of us—
Think of our vista faded to a blur,
if aught unlucky should to you occur!
One Pegler gone, where should we find another ?
A man of daring and of dash,
Think of the Nineteenth Century gone smash—
these are no empty phrases)—
Gone smash to blazes
I I on a misty day and muggy
lou should smash up against a stump and knock
to everlasting sawdust your precious self and
your patent double-action buggy 1
°4£, rllyinea ’ we own, sir, are not close
(This is a frail ode);
Gut, maybe, we should manage still (o live,
i hough one day you were brought home in a sieve
m a condition close akin to mince
i erhaps ice should not wince;
Perhaps prolific Nature has in store
oome Peglers more;
P raps she makes Peglers by the gross,
a a rap3 tbe dray-load.
so—on secoad thoughts—we'd just as soon,
If Fate so planned it,
That, as you dro*'« out some fine afternoon,
tou and your blamed old moke should bite the
dust-
isot that we wish you any harm, but just
J-0 see how we could stand it!
The modern miracle-working Wood, the
-uristian healer, has just opened on a fresh view
urn 01 • e ' an d he now tells his hearers that the
millennium is right upon them, and that two shall
il' 1 ‘deping in bed, when one shall be taken and
So he warns his disciples to be on
ti,o„ ert ,i for fc he blast of uabriel’s trumpet or
th 0y ' v t | 1 get very badly left. He sees signs of
Nirnft approachiog end in the “ wars and
umours of wars,” the widespread infidelity of the
wW,’„ a ( ld especially in the miracles that he has
disnu.1 s ln tlie way of healing. Wood, and his
Khnrlil 8 ’ are ’ therefore, ready to flit on the
int« n .°tice from this old planet, and spring up
hn°. e kir to meet the Loard. In the meantime,
on r ’ ast ute Wood keeps his bread buttered
b sides, and his disciples who run the small
fann s *t mporium8 ’ 8ri11 P ut a fair per-centage of
pi,, 0 la the sugar, besides keeping the “tin-tag”
AVhmh SU - leat ly damped so as not to lose weight.
arn ‘“ a reminds us. dome fourteen years ago there
Drpsw.h Prophet in tne Ballarat district (Vic.) who
hanri C ?. ed * the kingdom of Heaven was at
his then. We have a dim recollection that
AnvhJ? 10 i vas Lambert, but that doesn’t matter.
whnmvT’ • 8000 had a following of disciples, on
i n ~ he impressed the absolute necessity of sell-
tant iL, taeir goods for ready cash (an impor-
ho WH= m + eV u n when going to heaven), of which
Proniwfi to bave the handling. His fame as a
of reac^ ed even the hardheaded miners
adhftrni?fa Qt 9 ree k, where he raised a few
rents, and lectured in the old Assembly
rooms. Yes, we remember the gay old time that
the ‘boys” had at that lecture. And when
Lambert had had his say, a Weslevan parson got
on the stage to denounce him as an impostor, the
fun grew last and furious, Ronald Campbell, the
(at that time) elect of Crowlands, was grievously
assaulted by a female disciple of the immortal
Lambert, who got her fingers entangled in his
raven locks, and played sad havoc with his comely
features lor dissenting from some of the opinions
of the apostle, and several prominent citizens got
slightly damaged with the unsavoury missiles taat
were cheerfully presented to the leader of the
chosen few. Shortly afterwards, Lambert con-
ceived the brilliant idea that the time had arrived
when, surrounded by his faithful flock, he would
leave this sinful world and soar away to the realms
of bliss. S® he sti aightway gathered his followers,
and marched them off to a hill near Moyston,
bearing the highly euphuistic appellation of
‘ uood Morning Bill.” There they divestjd them-
selves of their ordinary wearing apparel, and
dressed themselves in “robes of spotless white”
(ninepenny calico, bleached), went to the top of
the hill, and watted for the coming of the Lord.
They expected to spring up in the air to meet
Him, and go cavorting round the heavenly regions
in fiery chariots and things, and so get the bulge
on those scoffers and unbelievers who treated the
matter with painful evity. But the Master
didn’t put in an appearance, and the dis-
ciples didn’t spring up in the air worth
a cent; and as the night grew gradually
colder and colder, it became painfully apparent
that the ascension robes wore just about too thin
for the climate. Then it was that the faith of the
enthusiasts began to waver, and, hastily seeking
their store clothes, they held a meeting and decided
that either le bon Dieu or his prophet had made a
mistake, and that they’d better adjourn their visit
to the land that is fairer than day until some
future date. The resolution was carried nem. con.
and the brethren and sisters departed to their
respective earthly homes. But the trouble was
not all over with them then. One female disciple,
who had left her lawfully wedded lord and master
to join the celestial excursion party, returned to
the bosom of her family before it was yet day.
She was about as cold as an iceberg when she
rapped at the door to demand admittance, and a
muffled voice came from under the bed-clothes,
after a while, enquiring who was raising tne
racket. “It’s your wife,” was the ready reply;
“let me in.” “No fear,” rejoined the sceptical
husband; “’"■y wife is gone to heaven; she started
last night, and I’m not going to let any strange
woman into my house until clear daylight.” And
he didn’t. But, when he opened the door in the
morning and she gave him the length of her
tongue, he felt that, if she had been translated to
OUR ARMY.
“WHERE ARE THE MEN?” THE MAJOR CRIED;
“I WANT AGUARD OF SIX!”
“WELL, SIR,” THE SERGEANT SAID, “THEY’RE AT
THE COLONEL’S-WHEELING BRICKS!"
even a warmer region than that where Abraham
camps, he would not be in a violent hurry to get
her back. After that, the Apostle Lambert re-
turned to his farm a richer if not a wiser man.
Mr. William Beach and Edward Hanlan,
Esq., are two persons with whom the world has
been much concerned of late, and both have been
diforded frequent opportunities of airing their
oratory. As a speaker, Mr. William Beach may be
written down only a partial success, his speeches
being generally as follows:—“ Mr. Gentlemen and
Chairman —er—I meat , ladies (applause) and chair-
man gentlemen (hear, hear), I—er—this occsion
is—[Deeble: That comes later, Bill]—Oh I I thank
you (applause) . . . reception (enthusiasm) . .
Mr. Hanlan . . . proud . . . Champion (cheers)
. . . world. (Wild enthusiasm.) . . . Next row
. . . May the best man win.” (Continuous cheer-
ing.) Mr. Hanlan, however, is the possessor of a
flood of eloquence, which not only delights the ol
but instructs the young ; and he has also been
dowered by a partial Providence with a ready wit.
awa y the prizes to the youthful winners
of the sports at St. Philip's Grammar School, Mr.
tianlan was what the Bum calls “more than
usually epigrammatic.” His flow of humour, too,
h it astonished the few, delighted the many, and
he was in such groat oue at St. Philip's that it leads
one to the irresistible conclusion that Mr. Hanlan
must have, at one time, had (say) an aunt whose
intimate triend s near relation edited a comic
papei. Mark, now, the scintillating sparkle of his
wit, as chronicled by a veracious Hum reporter:—
‘One boy, a youngster who came in only second
best, he advised to be first next time. Another
prize winner he complimented on the self-com-
mand necessary for the success he had achieved,
and, after giving away a tine cricket bat, he
handed a ball to the owner with the remark that
usually the bcM went first, though this time it was
the bat. Addressing a wee boy who -azed
with awe into his *ace, he said: My brother ath-
■eta, I wish you to succeed, and in wishing
you to succeed, the ODly advice I give you—with-
out which you can never succeed—is to be a good
boy. Take all possible care of yourself, keep
away from bad company, use no liquor of any kind,
and do not smoke.” These are our italics, of course;
but we do not grudge them—nor would we, in-
deed, grudge display type and a job-printing
border in order to the better honour such flashing
and resplendent wit. Mr. Hanlan supplemented
these brilliant remarks by again advising (nothing
like being emphatic) his “ brother athletes ” not to
smoke or get drunk, and concluded with the novel
piece of advice, “Always row to win.” Not even
the hyperoritic can deny that any man possessing
such splendid attainments must be entitled to the
admiration of all who can lay claim to even or-
dinary intelligence; and, so far as we are eon-
cerned, we have very much pleasure la congratu-
lating-, in a humble manner, Mr. Hanlan upon the
success of his educational discourse! But it must
not be thought that Beach, though shut out by
cruel fate from achieving glory oratorically, is left
entirely in the cold. By no means. Mr. Beach has
far too many friends for this; and one of them, a
great creature named James M'Gill, J P., rushes
into the breach, and, through the medium of the
influential columns of the Wollongong Argus,
elevates William to the very pinnacle of fame.
Prom the pen of the great M’Gill, J.P., we learn
that the champion was the son of William his
father (now with the angels, but whose earthly
immortality is secured from the fact that “He
was the first to introduce the seated shoe for
saddle horses in this part of the colony.”) Mrs.
B., young William’s mother (also soaring), is the
subject of an equally encomiastic notice. “ A finer
specimen of an Englishwoman,” writes, or rather
sings, M'Gill, “ never existed. She possessed in a
pre-eminent degree all the attributes that dignify
and ennoble womanhood ” Born of such illus-
trious parentage, it will afford the sporting public
unliquidated pleasure to be told that our William
“ has all the physical traits of his father, with a
number of the grand moral qualities of his mother,
and he is altogether a most worthy representative
of his race.” Possessed of a fearless nature, the
vanquisher of Hanlan wedded while yourg. His
choice was—but we will quote M'Gill, tho immor-
tal: “Beach married an amiable and even-tem-
pered young woman named Sarah Duley. The
Duley’s are old respectable residents of Illawarra,
and Mrs. Beach is a credit to any family. She
seldom goes to Sydney, as she prefers staying at
her own home on the verdant banks of Mullet
Creek;” where, notwithstanding the splendid
fame her husband has acquired, she may still be
seen by the curious frying the humble sausage
and manipulating the family linen. Beach, we
learn further, is a blacksmith by trade, but, as
will be imagined, has ceased to do the “ Old Clem ”
business entirely. It will be seen by this that
William is now a man to be envied. He has
acquired glory, and is on the high road to a public-
house.
• • *
The other day, Lord William Neville was
being shown by Cupid over his new gilded man-
sion, and, when the treasures of that won-
derful mansion were exhausted, his lordship
asked to see the stables. The handy man hav-
ing exhibited —’s buggy-mare, his lordship
said, “ Where are—aw—the othahs ?” “ The other
’oss,” replied the man, oblivious of Cupid’s warn-
ing glances—“the other ’oss, my lord, is away at
present.” “At grass?” enquired Lord William.
“Well, no, my lord,” was the reply; “Master
i have let Dingo bout on hire. He's a cartin
glue, my lord.” A man who has been ac-
customed to horses, and can likewise wait at table
may now be chartered on reasonable terms
Skipper PoCkley’s son, F.A.P., has taken “ with
distinction” his M.B. and C.M. degrees at Edin-
burgh University George Macleay, K.C.M.G.,
™ho is to represent N.S.W. at the Lisbon Postal
Conference, is Sturt’s old mate in the adventurous
exploration of the Murray (1839) The Rev. James
Leighton, incumbent of Christ Church, Nelson,
N.Z., has been appointed to the living of Har-
purhey, near Manchester, Eng....“ I should say,”
said a masher to Joe, the other day, speaking of
the attentions of another marher to the barmaid,
“ that his remarks were decidedly erotic.” “ You
may well say that,” replied Joe, with a growl; “ I
never heard such rot in all my life.”
* ♦ ♦
Mr. Joseph Livesey, the “ father ” of tee-
totab'sm, and one of the seven men of Preston who
founded the first Total Abstinence Society, is
seriously ill An old lady has just died who had
been in the service of Goethe as a personal at-
tendant for twenty-five years The latest
about Victor Hugo is that the veteran poet
“though in good bodily health, seems suffering
considerably from mental exhaustion.”
At Besanyon, a statue has been unveiled to the
memory of Jouffroy d’Abbans, who is held in
Prance to have been the inventor of tte steam-
boat, Fulton being considered an imitator... M.
Ldonce Petit, one of the most eminent of French
caricaturists, has died of gout —The late Lord
Lauderdale onco disappeared for years from the
knowledge of his friends, and got his living as a
railway goods-guard.. .. It is said that Parkes’ new
friend, Mr. Jay Gould the great American financier,
is on the eve of bankruptcy . The Earl of Belfast
is “ wanted ” for a debt of £BOO. He has absconded
and when last heard of was in Paris—Hartmann,
the Nihilist, is all alive again. He never was dead.
Yet it is very useful to die at certain times if only
you can come to life again at the right moment.


Professional Directory*
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Nove
ties, apply F. E. Hlscocks.. __
HORACE BENT, tv • Hlscocks’Federal
Minstrels, at the - cademy of Music,
W.
Sydney
riIHEATRE ROYAL.
Under the di not
Messrs. muSS Oaks h
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasury • '*eo.L. Goodman.
Williamson, Darner, and M :grove s Royal
Comic Opera Comp. oy.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OF
ESTRELLA ESTRELLA
ESTRELLA ESTRELLA ESTRELLA,
Not only a Great Success, but a Triumph.
The music pronounced by all to be superior to an.
yet written for comic opera.
A REALLY GREAT CAST OF CHARACTERS.
The three sets in the opera, by Joh “
are certainly the finest pictures ever produced in
Sydney in one work.
PRICES: Dress Circle, ss; StaUs, 39.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
Q
PERA HOUSE
'Lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
Under the Management of
RIGN O L D and ALLIS ON.
Acting Manager Monty Bhom ne.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY.
MISS DE GREY,
and her
LONDON COMEDY COMPANY,
will repeattheir sterling succes-
THE BUSYBODY
THE BUSYBODY
AND \.
MISS DE GnSY.
For immediate production, the great Loudon and
Provincial success, Woman Against Woman.
Business Manager I for Miss 1 Mr. A. L. Cunard.
Stage Manager fDe Grey ) Mr. k. 1. Lingnam.
Prises as usual.
George-street.
Box plan at Huenerbein’s, 411
Academy of mu si c.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
26th WEEK. 26i1l WEEK.
Unparalleled Success.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLO US G 1 KARDS.
Glorious Success of BETSY S BEAUX.
Fridav Night, Grand Complimentary Benefit ten
nered to W. Horace Bent.
Prices as usual. Box plan at Paling s, where
Pianos for this entertainment are suppl ed.
D4N. Bt’RY’S GRAND PROVINCIAL
it IAMATIC COMPANY,
comprising
T.VIN I’ . TWO DRAMATIC ARTISTES I
the Larg"* , lie t, and Most Successful Theatrical
o.\ ruitation travelling Australia.
NOW ON^TOUR.
Greet j 1 a very wo ere by Crowded and Enthusiastic
Audiences.
WILL APPEAR IN MITDGEE,
10th, 11th. 13th and 14th OCTOBER.
GULGONG TO FOLLOW.
No company ever ventures to play against us
twice 1
CJ T R A Y
LEAVES"
NOTICE.
COMPANY.
The Partnership at present existing between
Mr. C. H. TAYLOR and Mr. and Mrs. C. FULLER
< Miss Ella Carrington), will be Dissolved on Ist
November, 1884 ; after which date the
•‘STRAY LEAVES” PERFORMANCES
will be
DISCONTINUED FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN
In JSBB the “ Stray Leaves ” purpose making a
tfhori tour through the colonies (with entirely new
programmes) prior to their departure for India.
The “ Stray Leaves ” Company gave their initial
entertainment on November Bth, 1879. Since then,
they have appeared in Sydney, Bris-
bane, Dunedin, and all the principal towns in the
colonies, giving in all about One Thousand Four
Hundred Performances. The success of the
“ stray Leaves ” may induce unprincipled persons
to adopt that title. It is hereby made known that
the title, “ Stray Leaves,” and the entertainments,
“Stray Leaves,” “Appointments,” “Troubles,”
«scraps,” “This and That,” are copyright, and
playgoers are cautioned against patronising any
so-called “Stray Leaves” Company that is not
under the management of Mr. C. H. Taylor or
Mr. C. Fuller.
To Managers—Miss ELLA CARRINGTON,
Soubrettc and Burlesque Actress, invites offers of
engagement, to date from Ist November, 1884.
Permanent address : United Service Club Hotel,
Collins-etreet East, Melbourne.
To Managers— Mr. C. H, TAYLOR, Dialect
Comedian, Character Actor, and Vocalist, invites
offers of engagement, to date from Ist November,
1884. Mr. C. H. Taylor is empowered by M. Victor,
Esq., of London, and G. Harding. Esq, of New
York, to arrange for the production, on either
Sharing Terms or Certainty, of the following
dramas and comedies “ Leaguer and Landlord,
“Unjustly Sentenced./’ “Kidnapped,” “Won by
a Trick,” “ Fashion’s ’Prentice,” and “ The Elderly
Masher.”
Address ; Care Mrs. C. H. Taylor, “Chelsea,”
Havelock-street, Bt. Kilda, Melbourne.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
THIRST OPEN DATE, Ootober27th (Raoingand
Holiday Season), four weeks. Share or let.
Terms on application.
JAMES B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
ANOI N G .
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening..
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Bails, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &c. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castloreagh street, near Bathurst-street. P.S.—
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &o. No decoratioua required.
Win. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINK of FABT INTERCOLONIAL BTEAMSHIPB
OmCES: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NEBDAYB, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet oe Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG RODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWARRA YOU YANGS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
12 King Street, Sydney.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the »mly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 215.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 21s.
@T SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavill, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 13 hours, 20th August.
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
fIIHE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
(Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 Royal Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &0., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
THE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the ute of cream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery ifl made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office
Stables
Factory
21 Harbour-street.
Liverpool-street.
Mittagong.
NEXT SATURDAY.
NORTH ANN ANDALE. NEW SUBDIVISION.
PREMIER SUBURB, with WIDE STREETS and
LANES.
NEW SUBDIVISION. NEW SUBDIVISION.
150 CHOICE and VERY VALUABLE BUILDING
SITES, fronting
PARR AM ATT A-ROAD. ANNANDALE, YOUNG,
ALBION, and RESERVE STREETS.
This Bplendid Block of Land, lately occupied by
Captain Arguimbau, has been subdivided, and
will be sold on most liberal terms,
ON THE GROUND.
NEXT SATURDAY, 11th OCTOBER, at 3 sharp.
ANNANDALE and WIDE STREETS, 80 and 100
FEET WIDE.
ANNANDALE and FREE TRANSFERS.
ANNANDALE and GAS and WATER.
ANNANDALE and TRAM PAST YOUR DOOR.
ANNANDALE and VERY EASY TERMS.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
CALL FOR PLANS, and INSPECT THE ALLOT-
MENTS at ANNANDALE.
ANNANDALE and LIBERAL CONCESSIONS TO
BUILDERS.
ANNANDALE and CHOICE BUILDING SITES.
ANNANDALE and SMALL DEPOSIT, and FREE
TRANSFER.
TR. SMITH, CHAPMAN, and SMITH havere-
• ceived instructions from the Directors North
Annandale Estate to sell by auction,
ON THE GROUND,
NEXT SATURDAY, Uth October, at 3 o’cock
sharp.
)50 very choice building sites.
10 per cent, deposit, balance 5 yearly payments, in-
terest 6 per cent.
FREE TRAM TICKETS ON DAY OF SALE.
TORRENS’ TITLE.
Reuter’s Life Syrup N o 2
A positive and radical cure for every form of
Scrofula, Syphilis, Scrofulous Sores, Affections of
the Skin and Scalp with loss of Hair, and all
diseases of the Blood, Liver, and Kidneys.
GUARANTEED to purify, enrich, and vitalize th e
Blood, and restore and renovate the entire system •
Reuter’s Healing Soap
For the Bath, Toilet, Nursery, and the healing
/Akin diseases of every kind and at every stage.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
Huenerbein’s Warehouses,
411 George-st., and 178 Pitt-st.
Pianos Cost Price for 1 month only,
Prior to REMOVING TO NEW PREMISES,
ggp Cost Price! Cost Price! Cost Price
RARE OPPORTUNITY JUST NOW !
Huenerbein’s Warehouses.
The Yankee Rubber Baby.
GOBS in the waistcoat
pocket, yet can be in-
stantly enlarged to
LIFE SIZE,
I resembling life, for like the
real article it coos at plea-
sure, yet screams awfully
if smacked. Experienced
fathers are deceived by
these laughter-producing
infants, and no home can be
a reallv happy one without
their cheering presence.
Price, by post to any
address, Is. 6d.
HORTON and CO.,
BOX 641 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd’s New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Austiaha.
Everybody is invited to inspect the Establishment.
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on *or the benefit of the late Mr.
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody, Remember
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, MANAGER.
want to
ffijisiness
Ot
the
For
affl
one
X
iddr
ENTED
HNd
Cc*
C/<T7
2*4
m
Only
One
T
ddi'e.ss
&
0
ustralia
j’
t3&/stf/£<ze
T
ion
T®KI
EXTENSION OE PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
Messrs. ROSSALIE, LLOYD l CO.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen,
«- a Magnificent NEW STOCK was selected by Mr.
Lloyd in London, Paris, and in Ireland
first grand show of dbwhng ® n V B Wof underclothing
visit J. j. Ryan’S
DRAPERY AND CLOTHING ARCADE,
FOB CHOICE
-Drauerv Millinery, and Underclothing, Men’s, Boys’ and Youth.
Drapery, c^thingj H ats, Ties, Shirts, &c.
all fresh, choice, fashionable, and cheap, come and see.
address
J. J. RYAH, Drapery and Clothing Arcade,
760 and 762 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET ONLY.
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
gV Whahie. ■.•***£• J" «“ «“-■ P “ M “' “ a BMt - Thw "" “ '
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA. 4TU
GOLD MEDALS, S. »nd W. NBW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
» bottled shipped in bond Belfast .nd 01—
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney.
, Melhourne. Brisbane and Adelaide. ]


U3T THIRTY SHILLINGS.
|£S3
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone!
THIS iriumph of musical invention is acknow-
ledged on all hands to be the
MOST PERFECT, the MOST USEFUL,
and the
MOST ENDURABLE MUSICAL INSTRUMENT
of modern times.
It is a wonderful little instrument, which, while
it weighs less than three pounds, has the
LUNGS OF A FULL-SIZED PARLOUR ORGAN
and executes its music with
ABSOLUTE PRECISION AND PERFECT
EFFECT.
It has 22 reeds, plays in three keys, and all the
parts of most difficult music.
To Mr. H. B. Horton, the inventor, the world
was first indebted for the Organette ; but that was
too expensive to come within the reach of all.
After years of persistent effort and intelligent
study, he has been enabled at last to place before
the world this complete little triumph over all
the difficulties of costand crudeness.
It requires no skill to extract from it any sort of
music that may be required, the list of three
hundred tunes which it plays comprising selections
from Hymns, Oratories, Operas, Waltzes, Polkas,
Marches, Popular Songs, &c., &c., &c. A child can
play any of these selections with perfect accuracy
The player requires no instruction further than
the few printed directions that ere sent with each
instrument, and are so plain that “ he who runs
may read.” It is best adapted to the kind cf musio
which suits an organ best, in which chords pre-
dominate; but it has also wonderful power in
executing very lively pieces. It is pitched for the
voiee, and has a little card-holder for convenience
in singing. It will be found invaluable for Country
Churches, Sunday Schools, Family Circles, and
for Dancing. Every shanty in the bush should be
supplied with one ; and every household which
cannot afford a piano or organ should possess an
Autophone. It will afford greater and better
entertainment (han four times the price can pro-
cure if expended in any other direction. Sinoe
they were appointed Sole Agents for this marvel-
ous little instrument in the Australian Colonies,
18 months ago,
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.,
OK
474 George Street, Sydney,
Opposite the entrance to the Fruit Markets,
have forwarded hundreds of them to different
addresses throughout the colonies. Orders have
come to us from remote stations in the far North,
from distant miniDg camps, from many a lonely
► hepherd on a far-off run, from farm-hands every-
where, from Sunday-school superintendents, from
clergymen, from residents of the cities—from
everywhere, in fact. And one of the best argu-
ments we can offer as to the genuineness of the
instrument, is the fact that, in all our corres-
pondence, we have never had a letter that spoke
disparagingly of it. On the contrary, we have
hundreds of letters on file from customers who
have written only to tell us how greatly they are
pleased with it, and that they will recommend it
to their friends.
It is conceded by a’l educators and moralists
that music is the great refining influence, and
especially with children, its effect for good is’
boundless. The love for music which music in
the family engenders, is more potent in forming
dispositions and governing tempers than all the
treatises and lectures of the whole force of teach-
ers, pastors, and parents, and in conjunction with
these, is the oil or balm which renders sn other,
wise hard task an easy one.
The price of the Aiitophonc Is 3«h„
and where good music can be procured for Bucb a
trifle, it is criminal for any parent (except, of
course, the absolutely poor) to let his household
be without it. With each Autophone for ;»s. we
send three tunes of our own selection and a listed
catalogue from which the customer may choose
whatever tunes may suit his fancy.
All orders for music are sent post-free by parcel
post, on receipt of list price, and we make it our
business to see that all orders are promptly
attended to.
S?nd to us for catalogue of tunes at any time.
PRICE, ONLY THIRTY SHILLINGS.
Sole Agents for Australia :
ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY,
474 George-street, Sjdney, 474
Opposite entranoe to Fruit Markets.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal-" Estrella” p. 8.
Opera House—" The Busybody ” ib.
Academy or Music—Federal Minstrels ib.
The success of “Estrella” is such that if
Luscotftbe Searelle does not return home groan-
ing under the weight of his treasure, we may
fairly hope to see hint leave these shores loaded
with peanuts In a mild and inoffensive way, Mr.
Searelle's opera has most certainly caught on ;
and we have much pleasure in adding our own
mild congratulatory meed to the avalanche of
felicitations with which the gifted compoeer
been already overwhelmed. Miss Santley,
who "created” the part of Tartarella, has
been superseded by Miss Stanley, but other-
wise the cast is the same; Signor Carlo Modini, of
Teatro del Maccaroni (or something), still pur-
suing the uneven tenor of his way. As a matter of
tact, the Theatre Royal is too large for Signor
Modinu He is really only a miniature tenor, but
he would " fill ” a band-box delightfully.
* * *
Miss Nellie Stewart is certainly very suc-
cessful as "Estrella,” and has been evidently
studying the arc of repose. It is a matter of plea-
sure to us to perceive this clever young person
subduing (with a great effort, of course) gymnastic
tendencies which, if a little more developed, would
be fatal to even comparative harmony. In regard
to the Doge, terete Is no evidence of the decline of
Day; and Wallace as Phylloxera (a rather rococco
Rocco ' y tne way) reproduces the fooling that used
to delignt our ancestors with an air of conscious en-
joyment that does one good to see. Perhaps one of
the most pleasing phases of the performance is the
conducting of the talented maestro. It is a sight
to see the little man hold the cymbals with his
glittering eye, and petrify the flute with a mono-
syllable. Even Bass Hodge—a man of cast-iron
nerve—mouths his clarionet uneasily when the
great composer glances in his direction; and when
urged by dumb-show to further exertions, the
•■ouble-bass saws away with a tremulous hand
otil he is enveloped in a halo of rosin. In order
to elev te Luscombe’s head above ihe footlights,
t services of two gin-cases had to be called into
requisition, and the carpenter has knocked up
quite a Liliputian staircase in order that the tune-
ful composer may the more easily clamber up into
his throne. In a word, there is a great deal that
will amuse in “Estrella,” and nothing that will
offend even LA truce to these bald-headed gags.
—Ed. B.] We are very pleased we have seen
"Estrella.” It is something, you know, to have
beheld “the most successful comic opera of the
time.” We are now, however, quite open to assist
at the representation of the second best.
** * *
The Circus has left us for the North Shore,
Balmain, Newtown, and other Florentine villages,
but returns on November 9. This is a good hear-
ing, for the circus is a healthy source of amuse-
ment, anfl we own that the blandishments of a
certain lady are at times calculated to shatter the
resolutions of even the most adamantine breast.
Any giddy notions we may have entertained, how.
ever, were scattered by awakening to the fact
that the ring-master invariably held her on a
string, and that she infinitely preferred his nuts to
our diamonds. And, good-bye to Madame Wood-
year n&e La Rosiere, whose smile we shall remem-
ber, and whose whisk—but we forgot, the
bottle was not for publication, though as a
guarantee of good faith, why, cert’nly. It
was a merry circus, that, anyhow, and everything
was diverting about it but the band. We see, by
the way, that Madame Woodyear has, in Monday’s
paper, an ad. offering permanent employment to
sober musicians. Well, all we can says Is, that If
the fiends in the red coats who have been manu-
facturing earthquakes of discord for the last
month or so were blue-rlbbonltOs, we advise
Madame to secure, without delay, a trombone who
is an habitual drunkard, a befuddled flute, and a
Paralytic snake-player. As for the fiend who used
to manipulate the deep bassoon-he was a per-
fect telephone—with a miscreant at one end and a
rum-cask at the other. To get opposite to him
when he was playing “ Annie Laurie ” was as good
as having a drink—and cheaper.
It is long since there has been (within the
margin of our remembrance, anyhow) a company
whose efforts are more conducive to hilarity than
that at present performing at the Gaiety. All
those who wish (we are quoting Carcoar Mary)
to enjoy “a hearty laugn” should (some more)
"pay a visit to this chaste entertainment with-
out delay.” Alter another week, they will
be succeeded by Grattan Riggs, who opens in
"Grasp,” with Ethel /idele as leading lady.
It would seem from the somewhat erratic
mode of advertising adopted bv the company
that they experience considerably more diffi-
culty in making up their minds than in making up
themselves; for while the Herald announced
that “ Oliver Twist” was to be put on throughout
the week, the management suddenly resolved to
let Miss Ellen Fergus Ogden (this is cloying) de-
pict the woes of the Lady Isabel instead. We were,
therefore, let in for “ East Lynne ” on a most
intolerable night, end condemned to lister, to the
blandishments of Lsvisoi to the aooompaniment
(hot unappropriate) of a patter of rain-drops.
• •
It is astonishing the interest this morbid
mass of sickly sentimentality seems to inspire
amongst the unshampooed In the gallery the
coatless men and sbaboy women, not content with
following the artists with their eyes, followed the
plot with their tongues They could see no short-
comings, bless you I L'hpy took cogniz*nce of no
stage waits; neither did the sound of a hiccup net set
down by the author reach them. No; iney were
too much wrapped up in the development of the
table to notice any defects. No; Captain Levison
wasa-willin,” Archibald Carlyle a " pore feller,”
and his misguided missus a “ sweet creeter.” Look-
ing at the intense interest the drama inspires in
the breasts of the many, it is a question whether It
would not pay some skilful dramatic author (Mr.
LJwis Scott, say) to coniine himself entirely to a
class of drama which unquestionably draws with-
out the aid of scenic display. And, while on the
subject of scenic display, by the bye, we may state
•Jfft Mr. Kincheia’s stage pictures are effective in
the Gaiety representation of “ East Lynne.” To
crack our “wholesome” little [joke, we may add
that Mr. Kinchela is successful in nearly all he
undertakes. Hem!
We have seen a good many Lady Isabel’s
in our time-more than agreed with us; but the
iucmiest one we remember was Joey Gougenheim,
u much troubled with bunions, used to sing
n ''Lnen other lips ”in carpet slippers. Miss Fergus
ngden does not seem to have any bunions; but in
some parts of the piece, owing to the exaggerated
mi.gth of her train, she is as funny as was Joey
without the carpet slippers. In watching Miss
wh ?? s performance one is puzzled to decide)
vnether the lady has more to learn than she has
"forget, or vice versa. There can be no doubt
wnatsyer that Miss Ogden possesses ability in
a marked degree, but as, in this piece, she is al-
ways at concert pitch, the general effect is wean-
*,*le > and in the 80-long scene you really almost
r?®P a thise with Levison for getting “ Jack ”
oout the whole concern. As to the Captain
of Mr. Fred Meredith, this gallant
® c ® r seemed to have a notion that he could do
u jL DIn F without an eye-glass; so, whenever he
aadressed Lady Isabel, he would flx it in his left
mill; te . r a desperate struggle, only to see it igao-
v«ttS2 ÜBl / ou t & t the first word he was deli-
wiih ■ , Mr s. Henry Wood has drawn Levison
cun, ? ln Fular clearness in the book. He is a hard,
th« „ ng ’, accom P liB h e d, and unscrupulous man of
taee • aad > & villain, he has the advan-
eemg a gentlemanly one. Mr. Meredith’s
\ti-o °?’ however, was the perfect antipodes of
a.jy ' °ods’, so much so, indeed, that when ho ad-
su irto*- dy Isabel, his manner was to us painfully
inn £ Btlv h °f that of a cheap barber spooning the
kti in a tart-shop.
* * *
ao.ii e K parfc Lord Mount-severn was en-
ea by Mr. Larry Flynn in a suit strangely
suggestive of the coffin-shop, and a white bow of
such length and stiffness that every time Harry
bent his head in acquiescence, the “ nearside ” end
threatened to poke his eye out, Richard
Hare reminded one of a phantom who was
unwell. Of the ladies, the best was Mrs.
D'Arcy Read (Miss Eiise Sydney), who contrived
to extract some fun out ef an impossible version
of Miss Corney, but the Barbara Hare of Miss de
Glorian was an impersonation that was steeped in
melancholy.
* * *
From what is underlined in the pro-
gramme, it would seem as though we are shortly
to v e Badgered by this company in the “Streets of
London;” Go it! Strike on, and spare not.
** * *
In regard to its treatment of Miss de Grey
and her London Comedy Company, the public is
peculiarly paradoxical. At first the dress-circle
was more than ordinarily well patronised, and the
worrukin man carefully stayed away; but "The
Busybody” seems to have entirely reversed the
order of things, the horny-handed being to the
fore, and the patchoulied “ push ” being repre-
sented, on the night we went, by a score of
mashers (chiefly military) in the dress-circle, and
pretty little Grade Plaisted and the bloated pro-
prietor of the Temple facing one another in pri-
vate boxes. “The Busybody” is a rather funny
comedy by Mrs. Susanna Centlivre, who has
written more plays and married more husbands
than any woman has done in a life time, before or
since. She chiefly flourished during the reign of
Queen Anne, but she’s dead now. We say this
because a general impression seems to prevail
amongst the pitites that she resides in Crown-
street, Woolloomooloo, and is rather behind-hand
with her rent. Mrs. Centlivre's first husband was
a Mr. Fox, who, in a fierce fight with usquebaugh,
was defeated with great slaughter; her second, a
Mr. Carroll, who had a hole drilled through him
in the second year of their wedlock; and her
third, Mr. Ceotiivre, who survived her. Of the
myriads of plays and adaptations of which Mrs.
Centlivre has been guilty, “ The Busybody ” is
undoubtedly the best, her Marplot—whether she
cribbed him from Moliere, or elsewhere—most cer-
tainly giving Goldsmith more than a hint for his
Tony Lumpkin.
• • •
The machinery of “The Busybody,” while
being crude and artificial, permits of many situa-
tions that are provocative of much merriment;
but the cutting to which the piece has been sub-
jected, though strictly in conformity with the pro-
prieties, militates greatly against the success of
the dialogue, while, as a natural result, the unities
and the seq lence are occasionally broken to
shivers. We have, of course, to deal first with the
Miranda of Miss de Grey. A contemporary (with
whom we used once to play tip-cat) styles Miss
de G.’s Miranda an "arch performance.” And it
is certainly that, and a great deal more; for, in
point of archness in "The Busybody,” Miss de
Grey is a perfect rainbow! So far as her appear-
ance goes, this lady is positively bewildering; but
in many of her scenes—notably that when she
watches the first interview (masked) between Sir
George Airey and Sir Francis Gripe—much of the
effect is marred by extravagant gestures and ex-
aggerated by-pla.v. In this piece, Miss de Grey
steps nearer to the mystic realms of art than iu
any impersonation she has hitherto attempted—
and this is saying just as much as is honest.
• * •
The Sir Francis Gripe of Mr. A. T. Hilton
was a performance that was curiously conven-
tional. It was the eternal miserly guardian out of
the old, old farces, and was singularly void of light
and shade. Mr. A. T. Hilton has travelled a
long distance to show us what he can do; but
if he cannot a complish anything of more value
to the world of dramatic art than Sir Francis
Gripe, it seems rather a pity that he ever left his
native Poplar. Mr. Morton Selten presented, as
Sir George Airy, a stage picture of surpassing
beauty, though we doubt if the Carker-like smile
he so much affected was amongst the 11 business ”
set down by the authoress. Curious mannerisms
actors have, to be sure! Creswick was always
conscious of his boots, Goug mheimof her bunions,
Defries of his sword, Bland Holt of his nose, while
Miss de Grey is as prominently conscious of her
gown as Mr. Morton is of the rdteUier conferred
upon him by a smiling Providence. Mr. Morton
Selten is such a surprisingly picturesque young
party tnat, even had he made a worse show of
Airy than he did. he would have satisfied the
groundlings. Mr. Selten, however, was an “ agree-
able rattle,” and enlivened proceedings consider-
ably; which is more than can be said for Mr.
Matthew Brodie, whoso Charles had a depressing
tendency; while the Sir Jealous Traffic of Mr. J.
P. West was stagey in an intolerable degree.
* • *
It had been considered among Mr. Mark
Kinghorne's admirers (and there are several of
them) that the hit of his season, so far as he was
concerned, would be made in “The Busybody,'
since he is incapacitated from giving us his Touch-
stone ( a chef d’ceuvre d cc—no, it’s a weakness, we
own, but for once we rise f-uperior to it!.), the
management not being in a position to produce
“As You Like It.” Well, weighing Mr. King-
horne’s Marplot, according to our lights, we And it
wanting in many essential particulars. In the first
place, Mr. Kinghorne is painfully demonstrative,
and would seem to lack, in an eminent degree—so
far as this role is concerned—all knowledge ot the
art of conservation of power; but it is only just to
add, that while he may sin against the canons of
arf, Mr. Kinghorne’s Marplot is a comical perform-
ance, and appeared to be much relished
by a grinnning audience. The rest ot the
characters were mere shadows that came and
went; the young lady that enacted Bcentwell cer-
tainly conjuring up visions of a meat-axe.
• • *
In regard to mounting, the piece is all < hnt
can be desired, though we have serious doubts as
to the furniture suppied by “Alexander Moore
and C 0.,” being strictly appropriate to the age.
However
•• • *
Billy Bent had something like a ben. last
Friday at the Home of Minstrelsy, which we used
to get into such a row for calling “ Young Dutch y s
Academy;” Mark Kinghorne causing shrieks by
his song “ Parley vous Fractals,” while Horace
outdid himself in drolleries. We ha iT e said
all wo can say about the ‘ wondertul two-
voiced vocalist,” Carroll, Johnny Cowan, and
For continuation of“ Sundry Shows,” sec page 1;?.
THE SECULAR BLOW-OUT.
(BY OUR ORTHODOX CONTRIBUTOR.)
[ENTER THREE WITCHES .]
Ist Witch. Round about the cauldron go,
In the Free-thought doctrines throw:
First, the bible—tear up that,
Boil it down and smash it flat;
Then toss in the marriage laws,
More especially the clause
That relates to separation;
Not half loose enough. The nation
Will be grateful for our trouble.
All. Fire burn, and cauldron bubble.
2nd Witch. Here’s a thing we’ve heard of
recent:
Literature is called indecent—
Leastwise goodly people call thus
Theories based on Mister Malthus.
Book called “Nana,” illustrated,
P’lice have been and confiscated.
We have been distressed and puzzled,
For to see the press thus muzzled,
In this very blessed town ;
Put that in. anu boil it down.
All. Double, double, g?s and gabble,
In all sorts of things we’ll dabble.
3rd Witch. Liver of a pious Jew,
Woman’s rights—put that in, too.
Let ’em have their little cackle.
Let’s see, now, what next we’ll tackle.
First, let’s stop and take a drink,
That we may more freely think.
Who was that proposed “ The Queen ?”
He must think us precious green :
We don’t want no Queen above us,
We don’t wan’t no Lord to love us.
All. Gabble, gabble, gift of gab.
Make the gruel thick and slab.
(With much more to the name purpose.)


PEPPER AND SALT.
All fire-brigades are funny, but the Towns-
ville fire-brigade is, perhaps, the funniest now ex-
tant. These festive bandits turned out lately for
practice. They put one of their men iu the middle
of the road with a lighted torch in his hand. This
was supposed to be the lire. Then they played at
him for a long time, with exceedingly feeble suc-
cess. The rain came to the rescue at last, and put the
toroh out. A final salvo of water was delivered
from the hoses, and the conflagration was declared
to be quenched. Then they went away, and
everybody said it was a very successful exhibition
of skill. It is said that there is a secret under-
standing among the storekeepers that when a tire
takes place up there, the leaders of the brigade are
to be beguiled with 'beer into staying away until
the affair is over or the rain comes. But we do not
believe this. It would cost too] much to beguile
them.
• •
We quote this item from the Mudgee In-
dependent:—“The secret has got on the wing,
somehow, that our senior member has been sought
in marriage by two Sydney ladies with substantial
assets Both young ladies admire him as a politi-
cian, and have sought his hand through friends.”
Tbe story is quite true, too, we believe. Only it is
rumoured that the “substantial assets” in the
case of one young lady are represented by a
The "Progress” of the Land Bill.
“THERE’S MANY A MUDGEE LAND-SLIP ’TWIXT THE” &c. &c-New Patent Combination Provete [?]
mangle. We don’t know what the Other has*, hut J
■we think she goes out charing. We eonglatulate
our brilliant young friend upon whichever choice
he makes, and will be happy to give him our cus-
tom in his capacity of husband of either. N.B.—
Wa leave the key next door when we go fishing.
* * ♦
“ I was in such a hurry to catch the tialn i
ithat 1 couldn’t buy a ticket,” Baid the iAtfil-Bpecu- j
Hator, offering money. “Yes,” replied the railway j
•official abstractedly, as he snipped the next man's
ticket, “ I notice that a Rood many like you are in
a hurry to catch the trains, nowadays.” “Well,
sir, you needn’t be insolent; here is money to pay
my fare.” “ I know, but I can’t take it, sir.” “Ah
I see; the Government doesn’t let you officials
take nsoney. ’Fraid you’ll steal it. 1 see.” "No>
sir, tfkare is no rule against my taking it.” “ Then
whr don’t you take it?” “I’m afraid I’d be ai>
rested for receiving stolen property.”
• v
This is a pretty story for fire-side reading,
when the children have gone to bed. It comes
from a Southern town. It seems that there is a
professional man there who has been in the habit
of losing sums of money from his table—though
why he should leave them on the table knewing
this, is, to say the least, mysterious. Well, he sus-
pected a girl to be the culprit. So be set a trap
for her by leaving some more mom iy on the table
one day, and then going out. Thie money was
gone when he returned. Now we quote;-“Ho
questioned the girl, who at first denied all know-
ledge of tho coin, but whan threatened with a
prospect of seeing the police, she let down one of
hor stockings, drew tho silver from her foot, and
was then allowed to go in peace.” Pretty, isn’t it?
We should call it idyllic.
¥ ♦ *
A TERRIBLE WARNING.
He was hammered, with a thud,
Until quite disguised in blood ;
He was “ biffed ” hard in the jaw,
He was held upon a saw:
He was bludgeoned, he was booted,
Execrated he, and hooted;
He was pricked and he was smacked,
He was thumbscrewed he was racked;
He was broiled beneath the sun,
He was shot at with a gun;
He was slashed at with a sword.
By a mad dawg he was gnawed; (oh!)
And, despite his suff'rings grim,
None had pity upon him!
He was welted, he was belted,
Made drink lead that they had melt d;
He was pranced on, he was danced on,
By just ev’ryone he chanced on.
He was chucked from a ship’s gunwale,
He was brick’d up in a tunne 1.
He was nitro-glyccrined;
He was worried by a fiend;
Ho was slain and he was slaughtered,
He was drawn and he was quartered;
Ana, despite his suff’rings grim,
ftone had pity upon him
’Twas the ruffian— this is true—
’Twas the malefactor who
Wrote with malice most <nffehhdt
’Bout “ His Cft&teSiiip ” in the Jkrnal.
* * *
We like to hold out the right hand of fel-
lowship to a bold journalist when we meet him*
The proprietor of the Murrurundi Times is a
bold journalist; therefore, we hold out to him the
right hand of fellowship. He says he has been
served with a writ for libel for £2OOO, and he says
he will not pay it. We are glad of this. We were
trembling lest he should be weak enough to give
in. Now he can always depend upon us for to-
bacco when he goes up.
• •
Palmerston (N.T.), used to be a pretty fes-
tive place in the old days, when the Cable Company
boys were there. But what is it now ? We looked
through a copy of the local paper which came by
the last mail, and found the only interesting item
in it to be an account of an insane Chinaman who
tried to hang himself. Thiogs must have come to
a somewhatsorrowful pass when even a Chinaman
would rather hang himself than live there.
* * *
Read this whenever you feel uuwell. It
will cure you if you are humaD. You know where
Blackall ia? Nol Well, it is in Queensland, and is
one of thij driest places on the earth- in fact, there
is a tradition that no rain has fallen there since
the Flood. You can, therefore, judge what water
is worth in such a place. Well, one of the promi-
nent residents was disturb ed the other night by
the miauling of a cat. He did not throw up the
window and blaspheme to the silent stars; he did
not fire away his boots. But he went to where it
was kept, and took his gun, which was loaded with
heavy shot, and then, chuckling grimly, he opened
the back-door, and, sighting the cat, gave her, as
he thought, the whole charge. But what were his
feelings when ho saw her rise up apparently unin-
jured and walk slowly away with a look which
seemed to say “you have done your best to startle
me, hue you see I am calm.’’ He had missed
her. Well, it wrs a fruitful subject for
profane language, but it couldn t be helped.
<o he went to bed and put his cold feet against his
wife’s b3ck for revenge. In the morning, when
he woke up, he was astounded to see the yard was
flooded. “By Gosh! a springl” he exclaimed,
jumping out of bed in a frenzy of delight, and
waking liis wife to see the splendid sight. She,
good easy lady, arose Dimbly at the welcome
words, and went out to gaze upon the waters.
Yes, it was a spring—but a spring flowing out of the
tank! He had made a hole in this useful vessel
the night before when ho was shooting at the cat.
His wife turned round in speechless rage, and the
rrge of a woman is very bad when it is speechless
taut he was gone. About a week after his friends
brought in to her a equalid scarecrow, with matted
hair and a frowsy beard, and asked her let him
down easy. It was the husband, and be bad been
living in the bush at the back of the house all the
time, afraid of his life to tfo homd. He is Said to
tie thfe ifaost unostentatiolis man in Blaekali eVfer
since. 0 „ *
Up Silverton way, the gaol department is
rather unsettled. The other day a man was ar-
rested for assault, or something, taken to the
temporary lock-up; and, as a surer precaution,
chained with leg-irons. The constabulary then
wont off to bed. i arly next morning the barman
of the chief pub. there was surprised to see the
prisoner enter, chains and all, and demand his
“mornin’.” This having been supplied, the bar-
man said, “ Why, how did you get out, Harry T’
“Oh, easy enough—through the bloomin’ root.
Give us another drop of the essence of lunacy.’ -
After this, and a few more, the prisoner departed;
but when he got back to his dungeon, what with
the rum in his head and the irons on his legs, he
was unable to effect an entrance. After trying
for a long time to climb to the roof, and after
many endeavours to pick the lock with a piece of
hooo-iron, he gave it up in despair, and went
mournfully in search of the constabulary. He
found that small but efficient body just coming
out of the Jumbuck Hotel, combing the curry out
of his moustache with the stem of his pipe.
“ Hullo! ” cried the constabulary, “what are you
doing here?” “ Why, sir, I got out to get a drink,
and 1 can’t get in again. Have you got the key?”
“ No, and I forget where I put it. But 1 can t attend
to you now—l’ve got to be off to an inquest at
Nuggetty Gully.” Here he prepared to mount his
horse. “ But, constable ” cried the unhappy pri-
oner, rattling his irons. “ Ask the warden’s clerk
for his bunch; there might be one there to fit it,”
and, putting his foot in the stirrup, the police force
cantered off. That morning, a strange sight pre-
sented itself in the township. Everybody who had
a key came down and tried to open the lock-up
door, the prisoner smoking his pipe, and taking an
eager and intenee interest in the proceedings.
None fitting the lock, however, a ladder was pro-
cured, an aperture made in the bark roof, and the
prisoner wan thus once more enabled to place him-
self in lawful custody. After an absence of twenty,
four hr urs, the constabulary returned, very much
perplexed, and with a saddle-bag full of papers.
He passed and re-pas?ei the dungeon several times,
until the prisoner, losing patience, at length cried
“Hi, sir!" from the roof of his dungeon. “What!
that’s you, is it?” said the active and efficient,
reining up somewhat impatiently. “Yes, sir,”
cried the captive, rokiDg his head further through
the roof; “if you please, when am I ” “Oh,
I can’t be bothered with you now,” cried
the constafcu'ary, setting spurs to his horse, “I’m
off to collect the electoral roll.” The prisoner that
day sat on the roof of his [penitentiary, smoking
meditatively for 6ome hours, when he began to
grow lonely. So, getting down, he had a drink or
two, then, borrowing some lumber and a few car-
penter’s tools, proceeded, in a most grave and
methodic manner, to put his house of corractioi
Into thorough repair. That afternoon, tricing UP
iis ifons, he earned 7s. chopping wood, and later
ifodeeded to stock the local Newgate with suen
viands as were procurable; supplemented hy
sed-tick stuffed with straw, loaned b,m by .. .
Blacksmith. Two days later the mounted P°
-ode io, covered with dust, and proceeded at one
to the Warden’s house. The malefactor, climb
juickly out of his antipodean jCold-bath Jf '
clanked onto the Warden’s verandah, and w
the exit of the police eventuated, cr ed: « ’
policeman, I ” “Dear, dear.” an B "^"
force, “ what a lot of troub'e you give. '
I’ve no time to waste on you now. I'm off to
Wilcannia assizes.” Then the prisoner we
straight away back to the lockup, burst m
djor, and opened it -ext day as a barber s shop-
* * *
This is not bad. The popular toast in Bn
bane now is, “ Well, boys, D.B G.” The init»
stand for D— n Bam Griffith.
• * •
More misery! They have improve upon
the telepho re now to the extent that you en d
a cornet playing five hundred miles from y
of the wire. But what is that to our ca•
know a Tipperary man who plays n tr °™ hen
sound of which we Teel sure we shall bca e
we are dead. This thought keeps us ai .
should bav° b. en lying under a little mou
gingerbeer-botths planted round it au
sea-shell on top, long ago.


Archbishop Moran is to have a splendid
summer residence built for him at Manly. “The |
foxes have holes, the birds of the air their nests, j
but the Son of Man hath not where to lay His
head.” If He lived now-a-days, we suppose He
would have a steam-yacht. The logic is clear.
• ■ •
SABBATH QUIET IN SYDNEY.
How sweet this Sabbath silentness 1
No sinful strife to day for pelf,
But solemn thoughts that come to bless—
(l want that pipe upon the shelf).
All things in meditation seem:
[3? The soulless blue-fly meditates;
The blue policeman stands a-dream,
Like the blue crane on china plates.
This is the day whereon to sing
Much psalmody and hymns of cheer;
This is no day for picnicing
On buns and godless ginger-beer.
This is the day for Bible-class,
Not whistling vain, and idle words—
Though in the trees I hear, alasl
The pert profanity of birds.
And now the bells begin to peal,
And hopeful throngs to church repair;
Their souls are filled with holy zeal,
Their hands with books of Common Prayer.
They portion out the week full well
And piously. Its days are seven:
Six days they hurry on to Hell,
And one they halt, and howl for Heaven.
The preachers now, in various way,
Through all their placid sermons creep;
It is a blessed day to pray—
A still more blessed day to sleep.
Sweet thought, that this one day we’re free
From trade deceits and swindles smug;
Sweet Held beneath her apron see
Our Prudence coming with the jug!
• • •
There is a new feature in the Cabcoar
Maby. It is called “ Metropolitan Notes, by Sans
Collotte (sic).” We really don’t seem to think that
married life agrees with Mary. It doesn’t with
some people—indeed, with a good many. The
realism of it is too glaring. We know that, so far
as we are concerned, it was heaven before the
ceremony to see her delicately trifling with the
wing of a chicken; but what were our feelings
when, two weeks afterwards, we caught her glid-
ing about the kitchen on tip-toe in her galoshes,
intent upon stealing the cold porridge. We are
uneasy about Mary. What we want is to see her
back in her old form; in the form she was in when
she penned this now historio period:—“ Out of un-
adulterated and commiserating charity we have
hitherto refrained from any reference to the unfor-
tunate and dependent journalistic position which
our contemporary occupies.” Ctla viendra!
* * *
The editor of the Moruya Examiner is
evidently a man with an imagination that is too
large for him. He says, on one occasion when he
“ replied ” to some innocent little joke of ours, we
“ sulked,” and did not send him his paper for a
week or two. Why, confound him, his little hand-
bill is not opened three times in six months! -and
twice out of those it is opened by the dog. The
Moruya man also says he usually give his Bulle-
tin to his milkman. Of course. That accounts
for the milk in the tea-cup.
BRIEF MENTION.
HORTICULTURAL.
Ob. where is the flower that blooms unseen ?
Tour reply comes with a whoopl
The flour that blooms unseen is in
The Mount Victoria soup.
A young man of Tumut, it seems, has lost
his situation for conduot of a giddy nature in con-
nection with a servant girl. And yet they consider
there are difficulties in the way here of “ weeding
out the Civil Service.” There is depth in this I
“The Queen of Madagascar has ordered
three of her soldiers who ran away from the
French to be burnt." They beheaded the other
soldier because he stayed in bed. This distinction
was conferred on him because he was the General.
Says the Gundagai Times:— “lt may be
mentioned as a peculiar circumstance that for the
past fortnight in Gundagai there was not a case
of kerosene to be bought for love or money.”
There must have been a terrific bar-trade there
lately.
The Wagga Advertiser says that “No
one will attempt to assert that the newspaper
Press, with all its glorious achievements, is an
unmixed blessing.” We have to run through the
Advertiser regularly, and are in perfect accord
with him.
The aristocratic magistrates of Hillston
(near Cobar) objected lately to the appointment of
a storekeeper to the Commission of the reace. We
Sliding scale : Baronet —boose —boiler.
A hirsute tragedian: Hair Bandmann.
A sound establishment: A music-shop.
Photographer, to Joseph : “
upright, throw your head well back, and think of
Cicero.”
The Chinese forts made but one reply to
the French bombardment of Foochow. It was
“ no savee.”
Freedom of the Press-as shown by our
contemporaries : Freedom from all rules of gram-
mar and spelling.
The Armidale Chronicle says There are
no Farnells beyond the grave. Aren t there?
H —i s full of them.
A London alderman said, the other day,
that “aldermen were only human beings. This
will, indeed, be news in Sydney.
The Kiama Independent has engaged a
“special reporter.” It is needless for us to add
that that picturesque sea-port is once more bar-
berlees
When the Queen was asked by Sir Salmon
Wilson why she wouldn’t see the Maori king, she
said he was neither Salmon-coloured nor the right
shade of Brown.
“ I believe I’ve got ’em,” said Joe, with a
hollow voice, the other day. And then he went
into a chemist’s and asked gloomily for a box of
amphibious pills.
It seems that the Armidale Express has
two editors. It may be fairly Plumed, therefore,
judging from the brilliancy of the paper, that the
other editor is a goat.
“This will tell you,” cried Joseph, indig-
nantly. as Creswell was led jabbering back to Par-
ramatta-” this will tell you about the gorgeous
uncertainty of the law 1 ”
Reading the Cumberland Times. One
Duke to another; “ dead ?1 haven t seen
him lately.” “No, he can t be deid, replied the
other Duke; “smell his paper.
London pawnbroking statistics show that
of all articles pledged, all but ab °ut.t en Pe r cerit-
are redeemed. This is more than can be said of the
pledges given by colonial politicians.
“Then you promise, in future, not to take
rum as a beverage ?*' said JtCoseby* to a member or
iTred s ar Jcritical staff. “I didn’t used to take
it as a beverage, sir; I used to take it as a meal.
The Editor’s Table is what some papers
make a column of when they want to be genially
discursive: but, to our cynical vision, there are
always phantoms hovering round it of the buh-
scribers’ Book.
The editor of the Armidale Express has
an article on the “ Varieties of Laughter.’ He
must have been listening outside the pub.-door
while the poundkeeper was reading aloud his last
leader.
The wings of a mosquito vibrate -000
strokes a second. This is what harrows up the
soul of a lodger in Petersham—a man can t swear
fast enough to keep in time. He s always a beat
or two behind.
As old E—— charges the magnificent,
sum of Bs. lOd. per column for advertisements in
his paper, it would be interesting to know how
much per annum he pays his “ Melbourne sporting
correspondent.”
JACK IN THE BOX.
“MESSRS. KIDMAN AND JOHN DAVIES, JJ.P., ALSO OCCUPIED SEATS ON THE BENCH,
BUT TOOK NO PART IN THE PROCEEDINGS.”-(S.M. Herald’s report of case at Camp-
belltown, Parkes v. Webb.)
can only infer from this that they were afraid
whenever he came to court he would bring his bill
with him.
The last girl who left a letter to say she
had drowned herßelf was charged an extra six-
nence for her dinner by the refreshment people
further up the line. They say if a few more corpses
come along, they will give up the ragout biz. and
take to fencing.
“ What’s the trouble now ? ” said the local
banker to a country editor-" your paper’s out
very late, to-day.” “So it is,” replied the man of
letters with a groan, “ but ” (in a muffled whisper)
“the fact is I only bailed the Steam-Power out
two hours ago.”
The Commercial News should prosper. It
advertises:—" Any person so desiring it, can have
the paper sent to them for npthing.” If the en-
terorising proprietors would include a sandwich,
we have no doubt that a portion, at least, of their
journal would scarcely fail to go down.
Tell us about invention I A Brisbane
genius has just taken out a patent for what he
pJIIIh “ an improvement in the manufacture of
arrowroot bv arresting sand.” We wish he would
extend its operations to sugar. But a better in-
vention would be one for arresting grocers.
A certain pensioned polioe-constable in
England, who receives £1 a week, after 24 years’
service State' 5 in court recently that be never
too* anyone in charge during his whole term of
service. This is the kind of constable who would
be adored in Sydney—especially down the ’arbour.
At a meeting of the Mutual Befogment
Society, in Melbourne, the subject for debate was
“Gambling, Right or Wrong?” Towards the
close of the debate, parties were pretty evenly
balanced; and when the voting decided for the
Wrongs, a considerable amount of money changed
hands.
“Sorry you weren’t successful, Joe,” said
Mr. Brunker to Joseph, as the historic Creswell
was being railed back to Parramatta. “ Well, we
can’t bring everything to a happy consumption,”
said Joseph, with a sigh, as he strolled away to his
host elry to preside over the mid-day hash distri-
bution.
They are making a great fuss over a
wooden-legged burglar they have in England.
What’s a wooden-legged burglar? We have sees
a bush missionary with a cork arm and a glass eye
who followed up his profession just as well as
though he were all solid. It’s all in the spirit of
the man.
The Hon. Lyttleton, the cricketer, has
written a book on health. He dwells at great
length on the necessity of masticating the food
thoroughly, and affirms that Mr. Gladstone insisted
on every one of his children giving every mouth-
ful of meat at least 32 bites, To suit the times,
we have given orders at home to raise the kids
stroke to §4.
He was a “dramatical cricket, and had
climbed up as far as the landing', when
he stopped suddenly. “What’s the matter?’ en-
quired Freeman. “ Nothing,” was the reply, “only
I was afraid of treading on the alligator. Then
he went upstairs, and hung his hat on the nose of
a money-lender.
A Mr. St. John, the Teetotal candidate for
the Presidency, was speaking at Topeka, Kansas,
and declaring with great solemnity that Prohibi-
tion does prohibit, when suddenly a hundred men
in front of him pulled out whisky bottles and took
a pull at them. Now, Sir ’Enry, come on with
your Local Option Bill.
They were standing on a little peninsula
in the Harbour. “What a splendid building
might be erected on this spit 1 said the Rum
reporter with enthusiasm. And then he expecto-
rated unconsciously, “yes,” replied his com-
panion, looking down, “the foundation would be
strong enough, anyhow.”
The Reverend Yarrington, of Maitland,
announced last week that he would preach a ser-
mon on “ Everlasting Punishment.” We would
rather take the everlasting punishment ior granted
than listen to the sermon. The people of Maitland
must believe in Hell, anyhow. Otherwise, they
would have killed him long ago.
Says our illustrious old friend, speaking of
his Journal:— “The Gazette is content to be
known as Bega’e pioneer newspaper.” Strange
pride of place these people have! We dare say
the eaitor would be content to be known as Bega s
pioneer corpse, rather than not be known in con-
nection with the place at all. Curious conceit!
“What! here again, you old nuisance,”
ejaculated one of the Great Unpaid, as a venerable
drunk once more smilingly came up before tha
seat of justice; “you are committed for three
months.” The man of “convictions” more
numerous than deep, protests: “ I beg yer pardon,
your Worship, but ’tain’t legal to commit a nui-
sance!”
There died in the prime of his life in the
Bourke Hospital, the other day, a poor scribe
named M'Donnell, It was the old story-drink.
He had been editor of the late Louth Liberal.
We have no desire to speak with levity on such a
sorrowful subject, but still Well, his fittest
epitaph, in grim earnest, would be: Died or edit-
ing the Louth Liberal.”
The Gundagai Elworthv : “We are glad
to learn that Mrs. lloyton, who was injured re-
cently by a tree falling upon her. is progressing
favourably towards recovery.” We are glad, too;
but we trust Mrs. B. will keep the recipe to her-
self. A party in pattens, to whom wo are legally
bound, is at present “spending a few weeks with
some friends in the country.”
Julian Arnold says that his father, Edwin
Arnold, wrote most of the “ Light of Asia ” on the
cuff of his shirt sleeve. This fact places him at
once upon a pinnacle of fame to which Alfred s
poets need never aspire. Not so much because
they couldn't write the “Light of Asia,” but- —
Well, it would be easier for them to write it than
to get the shirt-cuff to write it on.
The editor of the Cunnamulla Express is
a frank fellow—particularly so in his writing.
Bead this sentence from a late issue: “ Waste paper
in any quantity, office of this journal.” In any
quantity, mind you! No pet copy for the file; no
specimen saved for the man who wrote the letter
about the pound I Very candid this, on the part
of the editor —but what about the proprietors ?
“ What do you call this?” said a man who
entered the Adelong Miner office, the other day,
and placed a snako with a beak like a bird upon
the office table. The editor looked at it for a
minute with gloomy resignation: then he put on
his hat and walked out. “ Well ?" said the man
following him. “Well,” replied the editor, “you
can call it what you like—but no more rum for
me.”
The reporters in Dunedin (N.Z.) have the
luck of it. The committee of the Benevolent
Asylum have consented to allow them aceess to
the names of persons receiving relief. They can
thus learn all about their old friends, and make
reams of jokes about them. Of course, when it
comes to their own turn it will be a bit rough. But,
in the meantime, it is gay. Eheu, fugaces! It is a
sad, mad world!
Two boys were sparring in the office of the
Northern Standard (Q.). when, Bays the paper,
" one of them sustained a green fracture of the
wrist, but he is not likely to be the worse for his
mishap.” Turning, then, to the very verdant
leader on the Land Bill, we see the poor boy has
had to turn his hand to the editor’s work, until he
is again fit to pick up type. Hodel allows no idlers
on his paper.
The last new thing in journalism oomes
from America, although the scene of operations is
in Paris. It is the paper Le Matin, which is being
run by American capital on the principle of taking
a different political line each morning. This is a
mere modification of the Sydney system of taking
a new political line every month, or every quarter,
according to the way in which “ Government
ads.” are blowing.
Lavater onoe said (at least a Cobar paper
says he did, and we suppose that is good enough
authority for anything almost): “ You may depend
upon it that he is a good man whose intimate
friends areall good.” We take it very kindly for
the old Swiss to have said this, because it fits our
case quite exactly. Our friends are good, there-
fore we are good. Yesl Our friends are all very
good—drinkers.
Says the Grafton Argus: “Linley Lam-
bourne is now reckoned one of the best carica-
turists in England.” If the editor will only pause
for a moment in his frying, we’ll whisper in his
auricular that there is no such party. He is not
yet born, but probably soon will be, now that the
G.A. has invented him. By the way, we under-
stand that the president of the Royal Grafton
Academy of Art is a Chinaman.
“Do you know what I would do, if I bad
that eye ?” said one of his friends to a rural news-
paper proprietor " ith a purple optic. “No; what
would you do ?” “ Well, I’d put a piece of fresh
beef on it,” was the triumphant reply. “And do
you know what I would do if I had a piece of fresh
beef?” said the editor. “No,” answered the
friend. “Well, I’d eat it,” was the savage re-
joinder ; “ I’d eat anything these times.”
We have received some verses headed
“ Rum and the Devil.” One of our specialists was
so struck with the merits of the lines that he went
out to meditate on the subjects, separately, with
the following result as a paragraph : —“ Rumsh
shgood drinksenthnelse, but the devilsh no good
drink nor eat. Wash use try t’ write ’bout devilsh,
till man knowsh all about rum, hey? Wha’sh
use ? ” So we hold over his critique till next issue.
A wine merchant ot Versailles negleots no
means of attracting customers to his shop, situated
about :#X) feet from the ball in which the Congress
sits. For two days past he has displayed the fol-
lowing sign: “ The noise of the Senators and De-
puties can be heard herel” Ail the people who
nave lodgings to let in Macquarie-street North
could, during last session, have posted up, without
lying: “ The noise of John M’Elhone may be heard
here.”
You can do a great deal for a sovereign in
England if you refrain from interfering with the
god of Property. David Butter, a "powerfully-
built young labourer,” who knocked a flower-girl
down with his list and then kicked at her, assaulted
a bystander who came to her assistance, and bit a
policeman’s thumb, was fined 30s. The bare idea
of such magnificent privileges makes us long to
live in England. We especially long to bite a
policeman’s thumb.
A scientific contemporary says “ spirits
made ol potatoes contain a large quantity of fusel
oil.” We suppose that this may account for one
of the most famous Irish (and, of course, potato-
fed) regiments in the Army being called the
“Fusileers. ’ [We think it only justice to our
readers to say that the ruffian who sent this is
now on his way to the police-station, in company
with the printer who printed it and the editor who
sent it up.— Chief Ed. B]
It was an ex-reporter in evil circum-
stances, and he called upon a charitable chemist
for assistance. “Yoi know me,” he said. The
chemist nodded. “ Weil, I’ve had nothing to eat
for three days.” “Hem!” remarked the chemist
reflectively; “I dou’t think there’s anything eat-
able in the shop, but .” “ Oh, it doesn't mat-
ter,” replied the ex-reporter with reckless despair;
“I’m not used to it—but if you’ve got nothing
else, I’ll take a cake of soap.”
One night, long after the pubs, were closed
—just, indeed, as we were going to press with the
last forme—a journalistic brother felt his way in
and demanded refreshment. We told him we had
given up keeping an amateur public-house; but
still he clamoured. And the more we said we
hadn’t any, the more he clamoured. In the end,
we gave him half a tumbler of methylated spirits
and hair-oil mixed. He drank it up, and crept out
smacking his lips. He thought it was rum and
milk.
“ A thoughtful hostess makes pretty sou-
venirs for her guests,” read a young lady in a
Bligh-street general-room to a graceful but impe-
cunious young gentleman, and then added reflec-
tively, “I wish ours would." “80 she does," mourn-
fully answered the young man. “What?” asked
the young lady with surprise. “ Bills,” gloomily
replied the impecunious young gentleman, as he
stuffed the “tenth account rendered” deeper
down into his breast pocket..and looked out at the
gathering night.


Skinny Men,— “ Wells’ Health Renewer ” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dyspepsia,
Impotence, Debility. At Druggists. Moses Moss
and Co., Sydney, Agents,
The cup that cheers and not inebriates
may be made doubly agreeable to its enthusiastic
votaries if taken in connection with a set of
decorated Chinaware such as Bray Bros, show at
402 and 404 George-atreet.*
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
quality, may be purchased from Hookings and
Co., 143 Pitt-street.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. 60$ Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
A CRICKETISM.
Of the poems just published,
It cannot be doubted,
Though the author is “ Fielding,”
The verse will be “scouted.”
A fashion-writer in a contemporary says
that “the bridal veil originated in tne custom of
performing the nuptial ceremony under a aqua* e
piece of cloth, held over the bridegroom and the
bride, to conceal the blushes of the latter.”
Humph! We have changed all that since then.
Now, if the average bride blushes at all, it is be-
cause art has triumphed over nature. The mantle
of modesty has fallen on the bridegroom in these
days. We have often seen a bridegroom requiring
to be supported into church.
He was a colonial novelist dear to the
heart of Alfred. He was so humble—and so cheap.
Well, one morning when seated in his attic, rolling
otf an Australian story by the mile, a boy entered
and hande l him a letter and a parcel. It was as
follows: “Want small tail to fit blocks; saim
prise.” The author then handed back the parcel
to the boy, and said “ Tell your master I am very
much obliged to him for past favours, but I can-
not, J really cannot, write any more complete
Au-tralian stories under eighteenpence.”
The Germans, who have run up their own
flag at Angra Pequena, West Africa, and pulled
down the British ensign, are jubilant. But they
have yet to find out the danger of the prac-
tice of “ complete occupation ” by means of a
flag. It is aggravating for the homeward-
bound hero who has added a new wing to the
Empire, when he looks back fondly through a
telescope at the flag his patriotism planted on a
savage strand, to observe it converted into a pair
of pants for the chief of the neighbouring tribe.
Dr. Riggs writes in the Contemporary
that “ the native-born American hates drudgery.”
The native-born Australian is a perfect glutton
for it. Give him the choice of a Tommy-Dodd
suit, high-heeled sharp-pointed shoes, a sovereign
in his pocket, and his “girl ” waiting for him at the
Quay to go to Clontarf, and at the same time of
The Mount Morgan mine, near Rockhamp-
ton (Q.), is simply a mountain of conglomerate,
which can he quarried, the stuff yielding ounces
to the ton all through. The owners have already
had an offer of a million for the property, and the
expert sent up from Melbourne to report on the
value of the claim estimated it (if it maintained its
present rate of production) at ninety millions stor-
ing!
Great display of fireworks by H. M'Quade
at Potts’ Point, was the most brilliant thing seen
for years. In fact, it was the only brilliant thing
yet seen—about H. M'Quade.
There are many who want to spot the
Caulfield Cup winner, but more have already
realised their most sanguine expectations regard-
ing the usefulness of such dinner sets of China-
ware as Bray sells at 401 George-street.*
There is on view at Paling’s in George-
street, a large frame of photographs executed to
the order of the Mayor. His Worship forms the
centre and around him are grouped the Aldermen
and officers of the City Council. It is from Boyd's
New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, and
is arranged in a most artistic manner. Photogra-
phically, it has never been excelled in the colony,
and Mr. Williams, the manager, and the entire
establishment are entitled to kudos for this piece
of work.*
Income, one hundred pounds; expendi;
ture, one hundred and one pounds; result, ulti-
mate ruin and despair. Income, one hundred
pounds; expenditure, ninety-nine pounds; resuit,
independence and happiness. It was the late Mr.
Micawber who put forward a proposition identical
with this; and though that gentleman was rather
theoretical than practical in his notions of thrift,
still in this case his theory holds good. Now, we
are not like Mr. Micawber, preaching what we
don’t practice: we are intensely practical, and
while we give sage advice, we set a good example.
Do you want to know how to decrease your ex-
penditure, and increase your balance at the Sav-
ing's Bank, at the same time getting a grand
insight into the principles of economy ? Do as we
do. Buy everything at Anthony Hordern and
Son’s Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*
Miraculous.
I will now state that I made a miraculous cure
of one of the worst cases of shin disease known.
The patient is a man forty years old; bad suffered
fifteen years. His eyes, scalp, and nearly his whole
body presented a frightful appearance. Had had
the attention of twelve different physicians, who
prescribed the best remedies known to the profes-
sion, such as iodide of potassium, arsenic, corrosive
sublimate, sarsaparilla, etc. Had paid $5OO for
medical treatment, with but little relief. 1 pre-
vailed upon him to use the Cuticura Resolvent
(blood purifier) internally and the Cuticura and
Cuticura Soap externally. He did so, ar d was
completely cured. The skin on his head, face, and
many other parts of his body, which presented a
most loathsome appearance, is now as soft and
smooth as an infant’?, with no scar or trace of the
disease left behind. He has now been cured twelve
months. Reported by
F. H. BROWN, Esq., Barnwell, S.C.
Reference, Dr. H. Baer, Charleston, S. C.
Sour stomach, bad breath, indigestion, and
headache easily cured by Hop Bitters.
Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins. Is.*
If you would have appetite, liesh, colour,
strength, and vigour, take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
which will confer them upon you in rapid succes-
sion.
For more than a year and a half my face
was covered with pimples and blotches. Four
Bottles of Bristol's Sarsaparilla and three of
Pills, have entirely cured me. DAVID BARK,
Sandhurst, Victoria.
The efficacy of Wolpe’s Schnapps has
been spoken and written of, but it is in the indi-
vidual cures consummated it finds its highest
award and surest advocacy. It is palatable, stimu-
lative, and produces marked results.
Affections of the Liver, Bilious Disorders,
Sick Headache, &c , are thoroughly cured by Dr.
Jayne's Sanative Pills. Acting as a general laxa-
tive, they lemove all irritating and fecal matter
from the bowels, gradually change the vitiated
secretions of the stomach and liver, and restore
these organs to a healthy condition. To bo had of
all druggists and storekeepers, and wholesale by
Elliott Bros., Pitt-street, Sydney.
M». DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabrio
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.-
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &e.. &c.. by return post,.*
ALCOCK&CO.S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
HUB 11 aai CO.,
375 George-si., Sydney.
IST TIME PAYMENTS, IF REQUIRED
the “marvellous Girards,” and we are really al-
most glad they go to Melbourne in a fortnight to
give some other unfortunate critics a turn, and
afford us time to commune with the most reliable
lexicographer. And a correspondent whose com-
munication does more honour to his heart than his
head, pelts us with the following scintillating item
which, whatever it may be, is certainly not “ perni-
cious”:—“The fraternity of Mutual Imps will hold
a matinee on Thursday, 16th inst., Mr Jas. Allison
having kindly tendered the use of the Opera
House for the occasion. The admission will be
entirely by invitation, and the event promises to
be a very swell affair.” We don’t know what they
are going to plav, but we should not be surprised
to see our old friend “ Checkmate,” and to hear
once more the bark of “ Slocum’s Dog.”
** * *
Thursday night saw a large and “ fashion-
able” crowd at the Exhibition. It was the Tur-
ner’s farewell, and Annis Montague was as plump
and pleasing as ever. Alice Rees also was there,
and Max-her mari. Why do pianists wear long
hair ? There’s something in it, mind you, or you
wouldn’t And the practice so universal. Our ex-
perience has been that, as a man progresses in
music, his hair issuffered to get longer and longer.
The artist who wrestles with the flute or fiddle in
the bar of a country public-house, is always closely
cropped. As he approaches the metropolis and
advances from horn-pipes to waltzes, and ulti-
mately to airs from opera bouffe, his hair becomes
more neglected. Should he pursue his studies,
and deviate iato Mendelssohn and Beethoven, it
approaches frowsiness. What it will become when
he gets through Wagner, it is not pleasant to dweil
upon. Well, Annis sang and Rees sang as we
have seldom heard them before, and each had to
bend, now to the plaudits, now under the bouquets
fired at them from all parts of the house. The prac-
tice of heaving 101 b. nosegays at artistes is a very
pleasing one—especially when they catch them in
their little —(not for worlds)! It is also nice to
know that these bouquets are never hired for the
occasion, but are always the offerings tp real
merit. (We got one once. The doctor’s bill was
£3O). Fairfax, too, was there. Anni labuntur!
When we heard him last, we were in frilled petti-
coats. There was a cornet solo, by a Mr. Gretz.
We like the cornet when the big end is occupied
by a mute, and the small by a cork. Yes; and
Charles roused us up with “ Sound the alarm,”
which has been ringing in our ears ever since.
* * * •*
A full notice of the Commercial Amateur
Dramatic Club’s show at the new Masonic next
week. As the gentlemen’s parts were all under-
taken by dramatic drapers, you may expect to get
it “by the yard.” And we trust you will find it a
“first-class article.”
0 tit 0 #
As this paper would be incomplete with-
out a Langtry par., we will just slide in a few lines
about the Lily, trusting our readers will believe as
much of i his item as they can without straining
themselves. Mrs. Langtry recently left New York
in the Arizona, and this is some of what took
place on that interesting occasion. Two American
managers—Stetson and Gilmore—were awaiting
her arrival, “rubbing the sleep out of their eyes,
when she suddenly appears. We quote: "Accom-
panying her was her mother, Mrs. Le Breton, and
one or two friends, including Fred Gebhard, while
Charles Mendum, her youthful manager, hovered
in the rear, In answer to salutations. Mrs. Lang-
try says, 4 Weil, anyhow, lam very glad to see you
alt ’ ” (sic). Suddenly she asks for Mo, her Chinese
boy H e has been photographed, she explains, and
of the pictures she says: “‘They are very good,
only they give him a cast in one eye. I amafraid,’
continued Mrs. Langtry, pensively, ‘that the poor
boy really has a slight cast in one eye.’ ” Paw
thing! Well, the bell rings, and “ Messrs. Stetson,
Gilmore, and Mendum walked down the gangway,
and stood a disconsolate trio on the landing stage.
After a pause, a young man in a light grey suit
and a Derby hat followed them. This was Fred
Gebhard.” When the steamer is moving off, the
Lily is made to cry, “ I don t want to go! I think
New York is good enough for me, after all!”
while her Chinese boy, Mo, stands beside her, his
eyes “ perfectly glittering with delight.” There is
a lot more of this, and, if you are so enthralled
with the narrative that you would like another
slab of it, you have only to let us know, and we
will deal you out a powerful dose in a “suckin’’
edishun.
" THE POOR PLAYER."
Correspondence is invited ft on, ac ■' r» ut the
Theatrical Profession .
“Poor Player ? ” Of course—any amount
of it; and this column shall have prominence, for
we adore the “ perfesh. ’ It’s a weakness, we own;
but, like Mrs. Snagsby. “ we are a little liable to it.”
All right, then. At the Melbourne Royal, they
have fallen back upon “ The Silver King,” with a
cast that is exceptional, if only from the fact
that the illustrious “Kyrle Daley” plays a con-
spicuous character. “ Romeo and Juliet has, we
are afraid, turned out a “fr®st” at the Opera
House; and this must be a nasty knock for the
lovely twins, Handsome George and translucent
Jim. In this speculation the proprietors evidently
considered that they could travel on “ stage-
pictures” alone, and were under an impression
that the aotlng powers of the cast formed quite
a secondary consideration. The fallacy of this
absurd notion is now apparent. In the first place,
the engagement of Frank Cates to play Romeo,
was, for many reasons, suicidal. Not that Mr.
Cates is not a good actor—far from it; he is a very
good actor; but beyond having the physical
requirements necessary for the part of Mr. R.
Montague, he is totally deficient in the matter of
“grasp” necessary for the part. We understand
that “Romeo and Juliet” is to come to Sydney
shortly; and as Sydney audiences are notoriously
less tolerant than those of the Cabbage Garden
metropolis, it is to be hoped that the cast will
be stringently amended. But the Melbourne
news that pleases us most is that Mr. Alfred
Dampier has opened in an entirely new drama,
“written by Frank Harvoy, Esq.” presumably
“especially for the gifted Alfred, who appears
nightly as the ill-fated worrukin-man who “ earns
his living by the sweat of his brow ” until it pours
down like rain. Dampier is supported, of course,
by the two little hammer-headed fairies whom we
have loved so well and loved so long —And. to
go merrily on, we may state that “ Fun on the
Bristol” is a bit of a go at what James calls the
“ Bijow ” Theatre: and a new Rip Van Winkle has
upreared himself nefore an Auckland audience.
His name is Wilkinson.... And, before we forget
it the Sydney Amateur Comedy Co. showed
on Tuesday, for the benefit of the School of
Arts, when Byron's “Partners for Life” was
successfully attacked, and defeated with great
slaughter. This is the comedy, it will be remem-
bered, in which the following pretty quip occurs :
She: It's no good crying over spilt milk.
He (gloomily) : No. For that would only make
it the more watery. . .
Subsequently, “Nelson” died to slow music in
great agony, and the unfortunate “ Village Black-
smith” was depicted under a spreading chestnut
i ree with much effeot; the singer, in the exercise
of a wise discretion, concealing the fact that his
immortalisation only commenced after his six-
teenth feint ... Oh, and here’s a good joke. The
following letter (which speaks for itselfl has been
received by the editor of the S F. Argonaut,
certainly one of the smartest pap«rs in the world:
—“New York. August '3, 1884 Editors Argo-
naut: In October Mr. Joseffy [violinist] a ill visit
your city. Oblige me by using enclosed notices,
off and on, in you valuable paper. With many
thanks. Very respectfully, Henry Wolfsohn,
manager for Mr. Joseffy.” Nice assurance!
Appended is the editor’s reply:-” We are very
much obliged to Mr. Henry Wolfsohn for his
courtesy in sending us the 30 notices. We shall
use them ‘ off and on ’—especially off.” Wholesome
gruel, t us V id this re uinds us (we don’t know
why) i rl gi.Vs “Buffaloes” are at Charters
Town , in.i h. re is a specimen of the veracity of
the Brii'O.me Era’s theatrical news:—“A. R. (sic)
Halliiax, who used to manage Dunning’s business,
has joined South in an operatic venture. Their
company, headed by Edith Pender and Alice
Johns, opened in ‘Girofld Girofla ’ at Mudgee,
N.S.W., on the 15th instant.” Grattan Riggs,
who has done good business in Brisbane, opens in
Sydney on the 18th, with “Grasp.” In conse-
quence of his health, which has not been proof
against the heat, he has been compelled to relin-
quish his projected Northern tour, hence his re-
turn to Sydney. ..Would you believe the Kiama
Reporter says that Mr. South’s acting of
Dare-Devil Dick a bushranger, in “Life in
the Sunny South,” was “ faultless.” This is
“ praise from Sir Hubert Stanley” with a
vengeance. We wonder, by the way, what
a Kiama reporter gets for splitting wood a cord,
when he is not writing dramatic criticisms —lt
was generally thought that when Tommy Hudson
(now in Adelaide) seduced Miss Dora Brown (don’t
start) away from the Hugo Minstrels, that troupe
would go bung: but the Hugos are still pegging
away in Northern Queensland—Charters Towers
and Townsville Oh, and Mrs. Clarence Hannell
has taken Newcastle by storm m a recitation—
Henry V.’s address to his soldiers—at a show given
in the theatre there in aid of the hospital. After
this came the “ Lady of Lyons,” with, so far as we
can gather, J. F. Keogh as Claude Melnotte to Mrs.
Ned Holloway’s Pauline! !I I Talking of the
“ Lady of Lyons ” reminds us that the late H. J.
Byron once wrote a burlesque called “The Very
Latest Edition of the Lady of Lyons,” which was
very funny In the scene where Claude comes
home with the rifle he has won, he is made to sav,
“Look at this gun, mother; ’twill carry 5000
yards.” Upon which the Widow Melnotte retorts:
“Nevermind how far it will carry, love; the ques-
tion is—what will it fetch!”.. The Clark and
Rymans (whom, apparently, no beetle-poison can
injure) have arrived at Wellington; and also
Wehlo’s Marionettes, piloted by the equally im-
mortal Santly And Tom Buckley, the slim May
Vivian, D. Gardner, et autres, are touring Victoria.
A few days ago Arthur Vivian left for Adelaide
with Mrs. Helen V., Jennie Horan, and a choice
selection from the ranks of the histrionic unem-
ployed. They opened at the Academy of Music in
Spirited.
REPRESENTATIVE MAN: “HERB’S A FREE PASS FOR YOU, MY BOY, AS A MEMBER
OF THE BUSINESS PRESS. PUSH YOUR WAY, AND KEEP UP YOUR SPIRITS.”
“Leah,” last Saturday, and Arthur hopes to scoop in
bullion by starring the Missus. We hope he may. .
South's Opera Company are at Orange. James
stars his Missus, too, and declares there is nothing
like it. We see that Theresa Horan sings parts in
tights—once more pleasantly deluding a lascinated
public Ashton’s circus (we would write this
item on our death-bed) is (or was) in Kempsey, and
gave a “ ben.” to the hospital. We understand
that James went to the cemetery and shed a tear
on poor old Dease’s grave. The nearest thing to
the botanic about James being a chew of tobacco.
he solemnly planted the weed beside a pansy A
whole host of celebrities are in Sydney now.
There is Harry Santly, who, finding his innocent
advances towards the vremUre, danseuse of his
late troupe prove completely futile, has resigned
in utter despair, and someone else now pulls
the strings of that fair but ligneous facinator.
Then there is the translucent Wacksmuth, who
goes away to Newcastle ahead of Jennie Lee, and
we couldn’t teli you ho w many more. Lawton has
arrived also, and Minnie Hope—which is a good
hearing, as she lights up the city. And agents!
thunder! You can get dozens of them at the
corner for thirty “bob ’ a week, and a “booze
after the show.” We know seven or eight of the “in-
defatigable ” who boot-polish in the early morning
at their hash manufactories, prior to wall-polishing
later on, and knife-burnish after midnight in the
"dim religious light” of a tallow candle ...The
usual row. Mrs. Chippendale the prop of Miss de
Grey’s company, wants, it seems, to give th it
classically-minded young lady the slip Miss de
Grey objects to this, and gets an order nisi to pre-
vent dear old Chip, from joining smileless George.
It transpires, now, that Miss de Grey’s name is
Ellen Washington Burton-Preston. Rien que got!
“Washington is good.” —Miss F. Co.vell, of the
London Comedy Company, is a daughter of the
late Sam. Cowell, the great comic singer. More
joy!
skipping out of bed before nine, and taking the
axe from his grandfather, and watch him peel off
his coat. And just keep on watching him—smoke
in bed, and howl for his mother to bring up his
breakfast and a clean shirt.
An old resident of Tamworth attributes
the hitherto unaccountable risings and fallings
and disappearances of Duncan’s Creek to the
action of the moon. It is a strange theory; but
as the author of it is generally credited with
having had more opportunities of watching the
moon than any other man of his age and size in the
district, his observations are not to be lightly set
aside. The moon has done some curious tbiDgs in
its time, and looked down upon some curious
sights. What a comic paper the man in the moon
could edit if he could come down on earth and
there were no libel law 1
The Australasian— a paper published iu
New York for the furtherance of American com-
merce with Australia—says, speaking for Austra-
lian potteries. “We are a long way behind Dres-
den or Pallisbury.” Are we now ? But what is
Pallisbury ? We have heard of Palissy ware.
Perhaps that is what the Australasian means.
Judging by its knowledge of ceramics, we should
say that the journal in question mutt be edited by
a cat. Why ? But you see it, of course—what but
a cat could be such an authority •on the tiles!
Abject this, we know—but you can’t expect us to
sparkle all the time on oatmeal and water.


B£pgWK<StfiJT\£s"*~
M
Bargains in Music.
GREAT CLEARANCE SALE.
Slightly Boiled and Surplus Music, which has
been separated from the general stock in order to
»* Kts “rt]K?RONB‘MONT HO NI,T
Pipees from 2d. each- Grand opportunity for
laying in a stock of good music, at low prices.
NOTICE TO THE PußLic.-The newest and
choicest music received every mail. Orders sup-
nlied to all parts of the colony on receipt of P.O.
Silprs or nostage stamps. Postage 2d. extra each
n[ece Choirs and Societies supplied with Anthems,
glees, and every kind of part music. Brass, Reed,
and String Band Music always on hand.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE-STREET.
James Lawson &Sons,
CABINET-MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William and Boomerang Streets.
FURNITURE for DINING-ROOMS, BEDROOMS,
LIBRARIES, and DRAWING-ROOM(j>.
HIGH-CLASS FURNITURE, in the Newest
Designs, at very Moderate Prices.
BRUSSELS CARPETS AT ss. PER YARD,
Including Making and Laying Down.
NEW DESIGNS IN WILTON, BRUSSELS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS.
Special Designs for Art Furniture.
FACTORY : KING STREET, NEWTOWN.
The Berrygraph!
The Universal Copying Instrument, for
4Jd. Eourpence halfpenny. 4|d.
Will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, Is. 6d. ; Letter, 65. ; Foolscap, 9s. per
quire.
I ull particulars,. BXJLLARD) 343 Qeorge-street.
-A-'br©.la.a,aacL , s
Fills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy !
Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result ot practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form 01
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Rameys-
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
* r A
//V TfJ£
ACCIDENT
INDEMNITY C0 Y (LIMITED}
E.W.MOON. Manager
Place \
MATRIMONIAL -Parents, the newly-married
and those about to marry, may
valuable information, which may prevent years or
suffering, by simply sending a stamped addressed
envelope for reply to C. <J. W., Box 76b, G.P.0.,
Sydney. .
XXTA NT bill an Articled PUPIL for the Photo
VV Engraving Business. Premium required.
Apply at this Office.
:C3
> //
*2/
ILLAWARRA RAILWAY
, \ \.
A
•, A
\
— * tfutymu
mm
\\\\\ »W\ ll
*° A 4>
0^
.'5
# *
<A
A" N
*
.
rv
4JJ; ;•■
r*
‘k“
:V
n „
EC
*3
•-C
f_N,
* _ «L_-. « —
I Hi
_JL_.
_JU
a
v . _
fi„
r
/>>!**
St
F a
*r-
■D •
V
! • f *
I
i Cta. 2
»£
j
IVoc\\5^KUC\A
M
VouA'
\
Mutt
/ { ""
( w/nri(Vh\
BUI ID INC LAND urn
lHVESTMtHT' SOCI tTY<^r
is rARK r
S\T DX OCTMVMMAijn'i
m
*
i
m
TERMS:
-»4. ti*l*~* »| >. «•
«. 10 **». »««* I *
f~rl{ It+loMn-
if mid mi rum i nouns no mwmr
CW CLO V\C t
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 7th October, 1884.
Tit NITERS for PUBLIC WORKS and SUP-
PLIES.—TENDERS are Invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For fuUparti-
culars see Government Gazettk, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the OO ,|?JW:
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opfned, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
Government does not bind itself to aooept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Erection of Post Office, Maru- |
lan Railway Station i
Additions, &c.. Post and Tele- ,
graph Office, Blayney
Erection of Wall, Watch-house,
AH erations to Clock Tower, Post j
and Telegraph Office, Kiama
Ereotion of Police Buildings
Tarcutta
Construction and Erection or
Sluice Gates, Sydney Water |
Tuefdav,
14tb October,
at 11 o'clock.
I 1886.
£. A. WRIGHT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 30th September, 1884.
TENDERS FOR TAR-PAVING.
TENDERS are invited for Tar-paving the Play-
ground at the Macquarie-street South Public
School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and forms
of Tender obtained at the ofhce of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “ Tender for Tar-paving,
Macquarie-street South Public School, must be
1 idged with the Acting Under-Becretary. Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o clock
a.ni., on Monels y, the 13th October, 1884.
Ths Minister does not bind himself to accept the
oweat or any tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
The Federal Consultation Company
Herewith submit their new programme on the
MELBOURNE CUP of 1884
Run first week in November.
Capital . . £25,000, in 25,000 Shares of £1 each.
Promoters :—J as. Mcleod, Esq., Melbourne;
Hy. Ford, Esq., Sydney ; P. Ingram, Esq., Perth :
W. J. Erskine, Esq., Adelaide ; J. F. Mcßain, Esq..
lirisbane ; all genuine names, and men of good
standing. Promoters guarantee to take up first
1000 shares, and have already subscribed i.lOOO.
1000 PRIZES GUARANTEED.
First horse ..
Second „ ..
Third ~
starters divide
Non-starters ~
10 Prizes Of £5OO
Plan of distribution.
... £2500 1 100 Prizes of £5O
.. 1000 200
500 I 300
500 I 200
500 100
£5OOO
‘Ah.. 5000
12.. 3600
5.. 10*0
4.. 400
Total
£25,000
The Public are respectfully requested to join the
Promoters in the above enterprise, the bona fine
of which is unquestionable. Money promptly re-
turned should any subscriber wish to withdraw
before the drawing. Drawing held 30th October
next. Conducted publicly in presence of share-
holders ; representatives of Press admitted. Result
posted, and advertised in Town and Country
Journal. Send P 0.0.. Notes, Cheques, and 3d.
extra for reply and result (registered it convenient.)
Write for Prospectus giving fuller particulars. En-
close self-addressed envelope. Addr. ss all Letters
and make ail Orders payable to the Secretary, as
under ROBERT RAMSAY, Commission Agent,
405 George-street, Sydney.
AIaSTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases tor Sale, Apply Publisher, Bulletin
W
Office.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT!
GENT.’S 50, Is. tid. ; 100, 2s. 6d.
LADIES’ 50, 2s. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250, 6s. 6d. ; 500, 10s.; 1000, 15s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
THE IECTSTO C 0„
239 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Cut this out
By cutting out this COUPON, a rt sending
it, accompanied by loat Office Order,
you will receive a
BPLENDID ENGLISH LEVER
(by Rotherham, or other well-kr own makers)
lor 455 ss- ; or a strong:, serviceable, genuine
Waltham lor £3 lOs.
Guaranteed for 5 years 1
Note the Address :
C . GRANT,
5M4 George Street, Sydney.
Established 1878
Cut this out.
NOTICE.
PERSON'S ia possession of INFORMATION
likely to be of service to me at my tiia', next
month, will oblige by sending address to
W. WFBB,
Herald Officer
Campbelltotfn.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have thin index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
Wollongong Spring Meeting October 15,16.
V.R.C. Spring November 1, 4,6,8.
Canterbury Park R.C.. November 9.
Murrumburrah R.C November lu.
Canterbury (N.Z.) J.C November 11,13,14.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21.
Narandera T.C November 27, 28.
Victoria Amateur T.C November 27, 28.
Gwydir R.C. (Annual) November.
Victoria Amateur T.C )>ecember26
Rosehill R.C December 27"
Tattersall’s Club (Annual) January l"
V.R.C. Summer Meeting January 1*
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb.2B, March 5,7"
AQUATIC.
N.S W. Rowing Association Regatta.... October 18.
Canvas Dingy Club Ist. class race October 18.
Matterson v. Kemp October 18.
Solomon v. Kemp October 18.
Double Bay Regatta November 1.
Hanlan v. Clifford Febuary 7.
Beaoh v. Clifford February 23.
ATHLETICS
Casino Athletic Club Sports November 10.
SPORTING’ AND ATHLETIC HEMS.
Did any of our readers ever hear of a foal
that was not “ very promising- ?”
'“The owner of Leporello was offered £6OO
for his colt a few days ago, but refused it.
The 22ft. flyer that Reid the boatbuilder
has in hand is being built for Messrs. M. R. and H.
Longfleld conjointly.
For the English one-mile bicycling cham-
pionship, Howell beat Wood by four clear yards
in 2 min. 47 4-ssec., after a grand race.
The win from Middlesex puts Nottingham
shire at the head of the iirst-cfass cricketing coun
ties for the second year in succession.
Professional rowing in England is still at
very low ebb, and Bubear has joined the ranks oi
the ready-money bookmakers on the turf.
Thomas Stevens, an English bicyclist, ha
just completed a journey on his bicycle of 3500
miles right across the American continent.
The Italian nobleman who undertook to
ride 31,050 miles on French railways ia 30 days ha
won his wager. He is said to tremble like a palsy
stricken old man.
The programmes are out for the Balmain
and Double Bay regattas. Things aquatic will b
very lively now for some time to come. The Roya
Sydney Yacht Squadron had their opening day on
the 4th October.
“ That corpse that Hanlan rowed agains
in the Yarra was an evil omen,” says an Rnglis
paper. But it wasn’t the corpse that did it. O, no
Edward didn’t row against a corpse in the person
of Beach on the Parramatta.
Fennelly has gone overland to Melbourne
and taken the following string of horses with him
all belonging to the Hon. James White:—Bargo
Salvo, Tremando, Martini-Henry, Tempo, Despot
Uralla, and Monte-Christo.
The baokers of the mounts of the grea
English jockey, Archer, have had a bad tim
lately. In a week Archer only increased his win
by two, out of eleven mounts. Wood has won
seven races out of nineteon.
The Thames has become so low from lack
of rain, that a bicyclist rode from the mainlaud to
Eel Pie Island on his machine. It is a long time
since anyone has seen the river so low, or expert
enced such a long run of really tine weather. The
cricketers ail say Australia “ isn’t in it” for hoat.
That was a funny performance of the phe
nomenal English amateur, W. G. George, a
Gloucester—to run a dead heat with Snook in
level mile (time, 4 min. 33 4-ssec.), and then to win
the mile handicap from scratch, over the same
course (grass), in 4 min. 213-ssec., doing thereby a
best on record. ,
A remarkable bowling feat was accom-
Elished at Ashfleld last Saturday, during a match
etween two juvenile clubs. A youngster, bowl-
ing avainst bigger boys than himself, took four
wickets in four successive balls, and, after one
blank ball, finished the over by taking a fifth
wicket; middle stump each time.
Gbanny is getting quite smart in sporting
matters. Why, the North Shore Regatta that was
held on a Saturday was actually reported on the
following Wednesday. Not bad for the “old lady;’
and then you know it comes so much cheaper to
wait for a day or two, and copy from an opposition
paper that you will not even recognise.
On 18th August, James Finney, holder of
the one mile swimming championship of England
and 600 yards championship of Scotland, met J.
Haggarty, 100 and 200 yards champion of the world,
to decide who should hold the 500 yards profes-
sional challenge cup of Lancashire. Finney won
easily by about 53 yards. Time, 7min. 26)^sec.
Some grand shooting was done at Dubbo
in the pigeon matches got up by Mr. Muller, hon.
sec. to the races. Mr. F. Gannon took first prize,
killing his nine birds, and Messrs. Cameron and
Ellis divided second and third prizes, after killing
37 birds each of out 39. The shooting all through was
simply grand, there being originally 12 ties at eight
birds each.
The only bet known to have been won on
Beach in Lot.don was a “century” pocketed by an
Australian gentleman who has had an investment
upon his countrymen every time they have rowed,
including Layoock for the Sportsman Cup, and
who took four to one on Hanlan. The English
papers refuse to believe that Hanlan could have
been in form.
A cock-fight took plaoe in Queen’s County
(Ireland) lately, the stakes being £5OO. Some of the
birds came from America. The contest commenced
at 6 a.m., before an immense crowd. The final
battle lasted two hours and a half, until both the
birdslwere almost dead. The Stradbally birds were
declared the victors as against those representing
Maryborough.
“ The Australians’ performance at the Oval
makes us sing small,” eandidh observes the Lon-
don Sunday Times. “ What a pity it was that the
three contests were not all fully played out, as
England has admittedly won the rubber under
false p retences, scoring the victory against a couple
of defeats, which were recorded through lack of
time as * drawn games.’ ”
Jay Eye See’s great trotting performance
must have been a most interesting affair, for, im-
mediately after the 2min. 10J4sec. record went up,
the owner, we read, “went on to the stand and
kissed his wife.” When a man wins a lot of money
at the races, he often kisses his wife. When he has
lost a lot of money, he never kisses her—that is to
say, if she only has the faintest idea of what’s been
going on.
The first heats for the Cup valued at £25,
presented by Mr. M’Sullea of Balmain, were rowed
on Saturday last, the course being from the red
buoy near Mort’s Dook round Goat Island and
back to buoy. The winners were, first heat: Brown
1, O'Hara 2. Second heat: Nicholson 1, Smith 2.
Third heat: CUrk 1, Payten 2. The heats were
rowed light in skiffs, the best time taken being
llmin. lOsoo.
We missed “Timon’s” sailing notes in
Sat'iriay'B Evening Lyre. *• Tlmou " evuloutly
understands what he writes about, aud u is to be
hoped that his pen will not be idle this season.
There is one man, at all events, who will not
sorrow much; he not only falls out with every-
body, but a little time ago “ fell in ” through fall-
ini? out. Full particulars can be obtained in
Water view Bay.
We see by the Melbourne Sportsman that
Foley has ottered to Pox Farnan for from £250 to
£lOOO, the match to take place in Sydney; and, to
prevent a recurrence of the blackguard scene
that occurred at the Farnan-Jackson affair, the
event to come off in private, each man to have a
limited number of friends present. If this comes
off, we intend to back Foley, and make the wife a
present of a silk dress.
The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron held
thoir opening dinner at Cremorne on Saturday,
a grand muster of yaohts being present, and a very
pleasant afternoon was spent. We noticed that the
genial Old Lady of Hunter-street devoted three
columns to the account of the opening festivities,
while other events that occurred the same day are
completely left out. Surely so much space was
not lavished because the Commo—.
The final heat for the M‘Sullea trophy
took place in Waterview Bay on Saturday after-
noon. The starters were Smith, O’Hare, Brotvn,
Clarke, and Nicholson. The result was a complete
boil-over, as Nicholson was looked upon as a sure
winner, but got swamped. The right man turned
up in Smith, who won by a lot; O’Hare 2, and
Clark 3. This race caused great interest in the
neighbourhood, where most of the men were well
known.
Poor old “ Pendragon ” has found out that
cricket is a great game of chance. We suppose
“ Our Boys ” doing so well brought this strange
fact under his notice. He says;—“The more we
look at the puzzle, the more are we compelled to
admit, that whatever cricket may be in regard to
its other claims on public attention, it is certainly
unique in regard to the claim that nearly 50 per
cent, of Its issues are such as would be simply im-
possible at any other game.”
Miller is very rough on Donald Dinnie in
the Melbourne Sportsman. He ridicules Donald’s
claim to the title of champion athlete of the world,
and says he is only entitled to be called champion
Caledonian athlete. He also challenges any man
in Australia to heavy dumb-bell lifting, for from
£250 to £500; or any two men at lifting, boxing,
Grfeco-Roman wrestling, and sword-play, for from
£5OO to £lOOO, the winner of most events, he or the
other two, to pocket the dimes.
Bair, the driver of Maud S., says:—“Bhe
is not the timid, nervous animal some people
think. When she was six years old, and I was
TEEMER, THE SCULLER.
getting her educated to noises, I hired an organ-
grinder to play in her stall, and when he ground
out ‘ Home, Sweet Home,’ she put her head over
the organ and almost went to sleep.” We wonder
if Vardy would have startled her, had she heard
him in court when another man was drawing the
dollars for the job he thought he was engaged for ?
The sports in connection with the Church
of England G rammar School oamo off last Wednes-
day afternoon on the Association Ground, and
proved very interesting. There were twenty
events on the programme, all of which were
closely contested. A. Roberts won the champion
100 yards rather easily, and W. H. Chapman the
bicycle race. The prizes were presented by Mr. E.
Hanlan at the schoolroom on Tuesday morning
last, who gave the bojs some good and wholesome
advice.
After her great performance in beating
her previous records, Maud S. changed hands, Mr.
Vanderbilt selling her to Mr. Robert Bonner for
40,000 dollars, or £BOOO, a nice little sura for a
trotter. In Mr. Bonner’s hands she will never be
trotted in a publio race, and it was this which
induced her late owner to part with her. From
the professional trotting men of New York he
oould have had double the money for her, but he
refused, so it is said, 100,000 dollars from some of
them.
W. G. Grace’s one ambition, after the very
favourable draw recorded in favour of his county
against the Australians in their first match, was
that Gloucestershire should win in the second.
But, poor Gloucestershire—what a 44 holy show!”
Seven men out for 38! “E. M. Grace was bowled
4 round his legs ’ ” (a crime committed by Mr.
Palmer) ; W. G., ‘‘ caught for two at cover-
point by a false hit.” The drying wicket 41 just
suited Spofforth and Palmer.” No doubt our boys
had the luck of it.
The Grand Prix de'Deauville was run for
on a recent Sunday, and Tristan won it for the
third time in succession. As usual, he showed a
lot of bad temper, at the post more especially;
but he finished gamely enough, as he only got
home by a short head from Fra Diavolo.
He was ridden by F. Webb. The performance
was a great one for the six-year-old son of i he
Hermit, and Thrift carried the crusher of 10st.
131 b. Tristan ran third for this race in 1881, and,
as above stated, won it in 1883,1883, and 1884.
The Otago Witness says “It is seldom
that honours are so equally divided amongst the
sires as was the case at the late A.J.C. Spring
meeting. Three races, including the Derby, were
won by the progeny of Maribyrnong; two—the
Metropolitan Stakes and the Craven Plate—were
credited to Traducer. through Sir Mo lred; two to
John Bull, aqd g bke number to Expreea and
| Somnus; while the following 1 sires had one winner
each: Grandmaster, St. Albans, Goldsbrough, The
Tester, Glorious, Malta, King Cole, Kelpie, and
Warlike.
We notice that B ell’s Life in London in-
tend republishing their original accounts of big
events in the “square circle.” Authentic accounts
of old fights are hard to get, so these should be of
interest. The first one is to be the battle between
Bendigo and Caunt, and after that any others that
are asked for. We hardly think the one chosen to
start with is a good selection, as Bendigo knew it
was all u p if Caunt onoe got him. so played the
hit and drop game. There are scores of battles
between men more equally matched that would
be far more interesting.
Some desperately heavy scoring took
place at a match on Moore Park, last Saturday, the
players consisting of Fiji Islanders. The match
ended in a draw, each team averaging exactly one
run per man. James was top scorer on his side
with half the total, and half a run thrown in,
which amounted to exactly six. Mungaro topped
his crowd with the respectable total or four runs.
It was intended at first to play with thigh-bones
for stumps, fingers for bails, and blade-bones for
bats, just for Auld Lang Syne, but the desire was
crushed out of respect to modern prejudices.
'The New York Spirit op the Times of
23rd August says:—“ Since his appearance in the
Centennial Regatta at Philadelphia, in 1870, Hanlan
has lost five races in America, but in no one of them
was fairly out-rowed-his defeats being due to
accident, illness, or fraud. Possibly, when we
receive by mail full details of the Australian race,
it may be found that Hanlan was unwell, or met
with some mishap; but, if he was fairly beaten
seven lengths, and has no valid excuse, it only
remains to acknowledge that William Beaoh is the
Champion of Champions—the greatest souller in
the world.”
Judging from the following, cycling must
have gone ahead in America like a house on fire:—
The bicyclists form a fraternity of their own, and
find friends wherever they go, each town of any
importance now boasting a bicycle club, and an
interchange of hospitalities between them being
universal. There are two magazines absolutely
devoted to their interests, and in many papers
there is a friendly column. At the last parade at
Washington, D.C., there were no less than 1100
wheelmen on the ground, and their evolutions
were very taking to the eye, and altogether novel
to the imagination.
Mr. Maitland, writing from India, says
that the mare Empress, purchased in Australia for
a wealthy rajah, died in India soon after her
arrival, climatic changes being too muoh for her
Empress, it will be remembered, won the Hawkes-
bury Autumn Handicap, and ran second for the
Sydney Cup, giving the winner, Favo, 171 b. She
was afterwards sold to go to India, and in losing
ao good a mare her owner was deprived of the
services of an animal that could hardly have failed
to win races had all gone well with her. Mr. Mait-
land states that Masquerade and Gudarz are all
right, but Steersman has been suffering from an
ailment peculiar to the country.
Our name for British fair play seems to be
going faster and faster. A fight for £lO took place
at Birmingham, and after fighting several rounds,
lasting over an hour, the police appeared upon the
scene, and the combatants, together with their
seconds, and a crowd of about 300 persons made a
stampede. Later in the day a disorderly gang as-
sembled, and several brutal assaults were com-
mitted. One old man, named Green, was rendered
insensible by being beaten with a stick, and was
conveyed to the general hospital. Another man
was also severely handled. Bravo, England! It
only wanted the introduction of some slung shot,
bowies, sand-bags, i nd revolvers to have rivalled
a fair fight in America.
The Sydney Turf Club meeting was held
on Saturday; a dull day, cold, damp wind, and no
music did not tend to enliven proceedings The
racing as a whole was not very exciting, and no
less than three horses came to grief. The Hurdle
Kace was won by Warrigal, with Garnet second.
Spring Handicap was nearly a walk over for Sara-
hai-ida, Councillor finishing second. The Sapling
Stakes fell to Burrilda by just a head from Evie.
The Selling Plate was a gift to Bryan O’Lynn, with
Burraneer nearest. The September Handicap
made a good wind-up of the day, the finish result-
ing in a grand rush between Merlin, Here’s Luck,
and Sarabanda, there being only half a length be-
tween first and second, second and third.
The English one-mile amateur swimming
championship—which is really the championship
among swimmers—was won by G. Bell, the hnlf-
mile and long-distance amateur champion; C. Da-
nells, the holder and 500 yards amateur champion,
second. About seventy yards from the finish of
the three-quarters of a mile, Bell at last got level
with Daneils, who had led throughout, but the
latter stuck to him, and for 350 yards they swam
neck and neck. At last, however, the better con-
dition of Bell began to tell, and, getting his head in
front, he, in spite of another spurt from Daneils,
swam home the winner of a finely-contested race
by ten yards. Time: Quarter-mile 7m. 215., half-
mile 15 m. 2334 s., three-quarters 24 m. 45 s., mile
31m. 42M8.
Says Lloyd's Weekly:—“ Although they
are not superior to the remarkable fluctuations of
the game, the Australians seem to exhibit more
even play than our own picked teams. An ex-
ample of this is shown by the play of the English
team in the second and third ef the test matches
In the one case Ulyett and Steel carried all before
them, the former by his bowling, the latter by his
batting, and those two undoubtedly won the
match for England. But where were they at the
Oval? Ulyett failed to come off, and Mr. Steel
made a small score. We mention this only because
it appears typical of our English play, whereas in
a difficulty there is scarcely one of the Australian
Eleven who cannot be depended upon to distin-
guish himself.”
George Fordham, who, according to ru-
mour, had made his last appearance in the pigskin
®f e ™s not quite done with it yet. He bad a mount
at the last Lewes meeting, and the old original
Demon ’ was received with great enthusiasm,
according to all accounts. Even the glory of Fred
Archer has not quite overshadowed Fordham’s
long-standing reputation, and plenty of old stagers
think that the latter in his best day was unsur-
passable as a horseman. At any rate, unless
Archer can keep his weight down for some years
to come, Fordham will still have more wins to his
credit than his young rival when they both “ pass
toe Judge” for the grand post mortem event
Old George ” was pulling off big handicaps
before the renowned Fred was born,
Bell’s Life in London is pretty rough on
Granny’s weekly, and says:—“ One must go away
from home to learn news, and we therefore clip
the following from the Sydney Mail: ‘On May 3
at Birmingham, in the scratch 100 yards race. J. m'
Cowie, the champion sprinter, and H. A. Fife, a
dark ’un, met in the final heat. LoDg odds were
laid on the champion, but Fife never gave him a
chance, winning easily by nearly two yards in
10 2-ssec. Now Richie is dead, who will be 100 yards
champion of England ? ’ Fortunately, the ‘ news ’
is incorrect. Richie is alive and well. And in de-
scribing Richie as a dark horse, the writer shows
that he has not studied English athletics much
the Blackheath Harrier being almost as well known
as the champion himself.”
Writes “William of Cloudeslee,” in The
People (London):—“I believe there is very little
to choose between the Australian and our best
procuiable eleven; and that it is marvellous how
they, with only thirteen all told, can work as they
do, and hold their own, when we bring against
them whatever cricketers are at the time showing
the best form, we having some 40 first-class men
from which to draw, and any number beside
quite as good if given opportunity. Murdoch’s
defence was most stubborn, and his judgment and
patience perfect. On the off-side he is as dan-
gerous as ever, but it is almost tedious to see how
many balls on the leg-side he lets off. His 311 was
not equal to his 153 made on the same ground five
or six years back, but that was one of the grandest
innings on record.”
Cootamundra Cricket Club. The office-
bearers for the ensuing season arc:—E. P. Barnes
J.P., president; H. A. O’Donnell, vice-president l
E. H. Finch, hon. treasurer ; H. Stafford, hon’
secretary ; J. Donnan, N. Healy. R. King, J. r'
Meyrick and R. A. Perry constitute the general
committee, and J. Donnan, J. R. Meyrick, and H
A. O’Donnell are the members of the selection
committee. The first match of the season—Bene-
dicts v. Bachelors, captained by Meyrick and
O’Donnell respectively—was commenced o n Satur-
day. The latter team went first to the wicket, and
scored 127, out of which Julian made 71 not out
O’Donnell 16, and J. P. Duhigg 15. At the call of
time the married men had lost six wickets for nine
runs. A nigger minstrel entertainment in aid of
the funds of the Club will take place the latter end
of this month.
Cycling is evidently all the go with our
Queensland cousins, judging from the grand meet
tney had at Toowong, Brisbane. There was any
amount of raciDg, and some of the events were
very big ones: among others, the two-mile race
for a silver cup, value £5O, presented by the St
Jacobs Oil people. We don’t know whether you
ever heard of the oil before or not. We have; we
dropped on an advertisement in a foreign paper
quite by chance. But to return to their Cup, it has
to be won three times in succession; and C W
Bennett got the leg in this time in 6min. Isec.
There was also a flve-milo intercolonial champion
race, which was also won by Bennett, Attwood of
Sydney being second; the time was 18mio. 13Usec.
Some foot-races were thrown in to vary the per-
formance, and the half-mile champion foot-race
was won by T. Bond in lmin. 58sec., W. Gib3on 2nd.
W. Telford 3rd.
A letter from Mr. Joseph Thompson an-
nounces that, all going well, he will arrive in Mel-
bourne on the 25th of October, and no doubt the
“ leviathan ” will enliven proceedings He has not
had a very good time at betting iu the old country
but otherwise he has enjoyed himself immensely.
Among other places he visited was the Duke of
Westminster’s estate, which he, in his extraor-
dinary vernacular, denominates “the Duke’s
‘ drum,’ ” and he speaks in glowing terms of
everything he saw, including the two Derby
winners, Bend Or and Shotover. Paris he con-
siders the finest city in the world. Of course, he
went to see the Grand Prix, and was bursting to
Jay a wager; but, as he couldn’t parlez vous, he got
but one bet, 500 to 400 against Little Duck He
couldn’t see anything of the race; but when he
beheld the excitable Frenchmen throwing their
arms round each other’s neck, and saluting on the
cheek, he knew his money had gone, and drowned
his sorrow in a bowl—he terms it “ booze.” It is
wonderful, he says, to see the ladies betting, and
the manner in which six Circassian beauties put
down the pieces made the prespiration pour off
their lord and master, a fat and greasy Turkish
swell, who saw his money melting away in a most
alarming fashion.
The first heats in the running and walking
contests came off last ISaturday at Kelly’s new
running grounds, Botany. There being three
quarter-mile heats for the running, and two
seven-mile heats for the walking handicap. A
very large attendance was on the ground, as was
to be expected from the men entered, and, of
course, any amount of interest taken in the
events. For the quarter-mile the following have
a leg in for the final, to be run on the 11th: - First
heat: E. Weekley, 40 yards,.’l; J. W. Byrnes, 30
yards, ,2; T. M. Malone, scratch, 3. Second heat:
T. Lawrence, 35 yards, 1; H. Thompson, 20 yards,
2; G. Sheddon, 35 yards, 3. Third heat: T. Collins,
35 yards, 1; R. K. Campbell, 20 yards, 2; D. Blyth,
25 yards, 3. For the walking—First heat: W.
Harris (South Australia), 75 vards, 1; J. M. O’Con-
nor (N Z.), scratch, 2; W. Franks (Sydney), 650
yards, 3. Second heat: J. Brothersou (Parramatta).
750 yards, 1; W. J. Dunn (Newtown). 685 yards, 3;
j. OrmeB (Parramatta), 175 yards, 3. The three
first in each event are entitled to a show in the
final, but it would have been better to have kept
it to first and second as usual, as there is no in-
ducement for a man to go so long as he gets a
place. The prize for the quarter-mile is £25, and
for the seven miles walking match £5O.
The Dempsey and Fulljames glove-fight*
for 2000 dols. and the light-weight championship
of America, took place on July 30 at a noted fish-
ing resort on Staten Island, about twenty miles
from New Zork city. Dempsey is an Irishman,
twenty-one years old, sft. Bin. high, and weighing
9st. 41b. in condition. Fulljames is an Englishman,
rising thirty-two. He stanus sft. ,and weighs
Bst. 101 b. Only about twenty persons, it seems,
received “the tip” as to the locality of the con-
test. Dempsey was seconded by Arthur Chambers
and Professor Watson; Fulljames was looked after
by John Flood and Barney Aaron. A man named
Maliahan was chosen as referee, and umpires,
time-keeper, bottle-holder, and other function-
aries were duly appointed. The men wore ordi-
nary driving gloves. The combat was a desperate
one. Dempsey gained first blood and first knock-
down blow, and finally won in twenty-one rounds
lasting thirty-five minutes. Dempsey’s umpire
claimed several fouls for his man, but Maliahan
declared that he was there to decide the fight on
the merits of the men, and that he was going to do
so. Fulljames fought a game, uphill fight, but it
was no use, for he was over-matched. After the
fifteenth x-ound it was 2to 1 on Dempsey. In the
twenty-first round, Barney Aaron, who said it was
no use, threw up the spong’, and Maliahan de-
clar< d Dempsey the dinner. Fulljames protested,
swearing he could fight an hour yet, but his


“Rough on Cohns.”—Ask for Well*’“Rough
on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, permanent
cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses Moss and
Co , Sydney, Agents.
hackers insisted upon his retiring. After the fight
TJemDsey walked over to Fulljames and handed
him 50 dols. Both pugilists were badly punished,
hut Dempsey was not marked about the face.
According to one reporter, Fulljames “took his
medicine like a Spartan, and displayed great
courage from start to linish.” When all was over
Mart Malone, Fulljames's backer, offered to match
a pugilist iDside 10st. against Dempsey for 2500
dole. This offer was held over for consideration.
The Australian says: “Steps are about
to be taken to revive the Public Service Challenge
Cup races. A few years ago a fifty-guinea trophy
was purchased by subscription, and, after a series
of good contests, was carried off by the Treasury
crew for tho third time and passed into their pos-
session. Contributions are to be gathered from
the Government officers for the purchase of
another cup, and then the various departments
wifi be requested to send representative crews to
compete lor it.” Could not our Government
officers take a hint from this and get something of
the same sort started ? Contests like these bring
the officers together and promote good fellowship,
besides very probably developing some good oars-
men, as many will go in for an office race who will
not tackle a club contest. “ Crews are now form-
ing for the annual competition for the Warehouse-
men’s Challenge Cup. Messrs. Watson and Sons
are the present holders, and representatives from
M‘Arthur and Co. and Messrs. Paterson, Laing,
and Bruce intend endeavouring to wrest the trophy
from them.” This is in great contrast to our Cup,
which, if our memory does not deceive us, only
produced a walk over last year, and is to result in
another this year. Certainly our warehousemen
have exhibited great courtesy to tho donor of the
handsome trophy.
The East Melbourne Cricket Club intend
to make their ground at Jolimont as complete as
possible. Plans of the proposed new pavilion,
which will be constructed of brick, are now in the
hands of the East Melbourne committee. The de-
sign, which is very handsome, is by Messrs. Grain-
ger and D’Ebro, the well-known architects. These
gentlemen have given their services gratis, not
only in preparing plans of the pavilion, but also in
supervising the erection of a 9-ft. picket fence
already up. It is hardly necessary to say that the
Jolimonters feel much indebted to these gentle-
men for their kindness. Judging from the de-
scription of the plans, the new pavilion will bo a
commodious, substantial, and well-arranged build-
ing; handsome, but unpretentious in appearance.
The ground fioor will contain a committee-room,
a bar 42ft. by 17ft. 6in., a skittle alley 36ft. by 30ft,
and there will be also ample accommodation for
the curator. On the upper fioor there will be a
large meeting-room, three comfortable dressing-
rooms (one of them 52ft. by 17ft. 6in.). a small bar,
a reading-room, and three bath rooms with double
showers in each. There will be a neat balcony
above, and a spacious verandah below, aod seats in
each that will altogether give sitting room for
about 350 persons. In short, every care has been
taken to see that adequate accommodation will be
provided for members. The cost of the pavilion
will be about £l5OO.
The North Shore Rowing Club had their
fifth annual regatta last Saturday afternoon, and
had a good muster of visitors. The fast and
powertul steamer Cammaray followed the races
we may safely say she followed, for she was unable
to come near the pullers, the only thing she did
beat was a lad out practising in a tub for the Bal-
main regatta, and that was after a desperate
struggle. The Marine Board might very fairly, in
her case, remove any restriction about going over
half-speed above Bradley’s Head. Five races were
got through, the first being maiden fours—New-
man, Cad ell, Lord, and Obery winning by three
lengths from Carniegie, Eaton, Scott, and
Brown. Maiden sculls: W. H. Brown 1, A.
Eaton 2, G. M’Farlane 3. Junior clinker out-
riggers: N.S.R.C. Connolly, Creswell, Banks, and
Rich, 1, M.R C. Grace, Warne, Taylor, and
Brindley, 1. This race was a good one, the Mer-
cantile men making a big mistake in the
course they took, which put them into a lot of
rough water. The winners came in a length and a
half to the good. Senior double sculls: Lord an<i
Oberg 1, Robey and Robey 2, Eveston and Crowley
3; won by five lengths. Scratch fours: Dawes,
Davies, Oberg, and Rich, 1; Robertson, Lord, S. G.
Robey, and Burke, 2: Gilfillan, H. H. Robey, Tre-
beck, and Conolly, 3. This was a very hot race,
and only won on the post by less than half a
length. The club were unlucky in getting a
southerly wind, as it was the very worst for their
course.
As the following story mentions dog-
fighting, there is no doubt that it is entitled to a
place in our sporting columns:—ln a lecture by
General Sheridan in Melbourne on President Lin-
coln, he is reported to have said: “ Lincoln himself
was fond of a story, but it was a notable thing that
he seldom related one unless with the object of
giving added point and strength to an argument.
On one occasion Lincoln was pressed by some
abolitionists to let the negroes fight on the side of
the North, but he replied, ‘ No: the negroes don’t
understand that. Lot me illustrate what I mean.
I asked an old darkey the other day if he loved his
country. He replied, ‘ ’Spec’ I do, boss.’ ‘Would
you like to fight for it?’ ‘ Whatl go’n fight de
rebs whar dey fire de big guns and stick der bag-
nits into yer? No, sahf I like dis place mighty
well. I’m goin’ to stay right he-ahl’ 4 Well, you
know that the war’s all about you, don’t you ?’
‘ I dunno. Dat’s what dey tell me. But, boss,
did you ever see two dogs flghtin’ for a bone ? Did
you ever see dat bone fight any? No, sah! Dat
bone keep mighty quiet. Don’t make no diffunco
to de bone which dog wins. Bone git chawed up
jus’ de same. S’pose dat bone get up and fight de
wrong dog, de dog dat’s goin’ to win, I ’spec dat
dog make it mighty lively for dat yer bone when
he get him all ’lone by heself. Jus’ same, de old
niggar’s de bone in dis yer war, and he ain’t goin’
to fight.’ 4 And,’ said Lincoln to the abolitionist
deputation, 4 there was mighty good sense, under
the circumstances, in what the old negro said.’ ”
By the American mail full particulars of
the great feats of Jay Eye See and Maud S are to
hand, and, after perusing the Spirit of the
Times, there can be no question as to the mare’s
being a good deal the oetter performance. The
gelding, Jay Eye See, beat the mare’s record of
2min. lOktsec. on the Providence track, and, on
the same day, Winship, having a running mate to
draw his sulky, trotted a mile in 2min. 63ec. In
Jay Eye See’s effort he drew a sulky himself, but
had a running horse to keep him going. Jay Eye
See never made a mistake until a lew yards from
the wire, but his time was given lOsec.
Private watches, however, held by men like Dan
Mace, made it 2min. 10J4sec. and 2min. 10}4sec.
On the following day Maud S. made her
effort on the Cleveland track and she had
nothing to assist her on the home stretch
The following in her driver’s (Bair) account of
the race:—“Now, is to our movements after 1 got
ontheBulky. You saw I jogged her the reverse
way of the track and opened her up from the
quarter pole. As she moved past the grand-stand
I saw she was a great mare, and said to myself,
4 You are yourself to-day.’ Then I jogged her to
the head of the stretch and turneu her slowly
around as her custom is when about to do a great
mile. She stood a moment or two, and walked,
say, 50 yards, and then she started up of her own
accord, and seemed to say 4 Now let me go, 1 see
all the people, and will show them something
they never saw before.’ It does appear as if a
public day and eig crowd stirred her up
to do or die, for she did just break loose
herself. I did not mean to give her such a
long score, but then she was so willing 1 hated
to bother her, so away we went on the first
score. As we passed the wire she was going
just about right. I coaxed her back a little,
and at the quarter noted we were going at the rate
of 2min. llsec.; last enough. 1 chirped to her once
just after we left the quarter, as 1 desired to get to
the half in lmin. 4sec. I got there in ltnin. 4J4sec.
Along the back stretch I met Hayes with Catchfiy,
and hailed him with a ‘How do you liketbatmove-
ment?’ for we were sailing. He seemed astonished,
and afterwards told the boys I was going easy. I
aimed to reach the three-quarter pole In lmin.
36sec., and then we would have 33BjSec. to come
home in. She entered the home stretch very re-
solute, and at the band stand spurted, but did not
carry it quite to the wire; then 1 tapped her
lightly with the whip, and asked her for one more
effort., She finished without lifting, shaking, or
swerving, and I stopped my watch under the wire
in 2:9 3-5. Here it is; I’ve not started it since
That’s all.” The watches of the official time-
keepers made it 2min. 9%sec., 2min. 9 3-ssec., and
2min. and they decided upon the longest—
2min. 9%sec. Although the private watohes made
it 2min. 9J^sec, the holders waited until the offi-
cials declared 2min. 9Msec., a nd then gave a ringing
cheer for the gallant little queen of the trotting
track. She was driven in a sulky weighing 451 b.,
and her bit was a plain bar with overdrawn check
and bit. She wore bar shoes all round, these being
considered best to save the feet and legs of trotters.
They weighed 9oz. behind and 14oz. forward, and
she carried a 2J4oz. toe-weight. At Belmont Park,
Philadelph’a, on the 15th of August, Jay Eye See
essayed to beat Maud S.’s record of 2min. 9Ms c.,
but although he had two trials, he failed, the first
being 2min. llsec, and the second 2min.
On the same dav Phallas tried to lower his own re-
cord of 2min. 13J4«ec., but in these trials he could
make only 2min. 15sec, 2min. 14>4sec., and 3min.
15J4sec. Edward and Swiveller, the famous team
of Mr. Work, have beaten their record by trotting
a mile in a skeleton waggon in 2min. lessee.
SPOR TING GLEANING?.
On the cominfr oooasion Tatteraall’s Cup,
to be run for on Njw Year’s Bay, will be a very
rich stake, for the terras are a handicap of 500 govs.
THE RELIEF FOR KHARTOUM.
MAP SHEWING ROUTE TO BE TAKEN BY THE EXPEDITION TO RELIEVE GENERAL
GORDON.
added and a sweep of 10 sovs. each, half forfeit or
no liability if declared by the day of general entry,
together with a cup value 100 sovs. presented by
Mr. John Thompson; the second horse will receive
50 Suva, and the third 20 sovs. from the prize...
In the match betweeu the High School and Queen's
School, on the Eastern Soburbs Ground, A. H. Eden
seored 103 (not out)... Alhambra, the well-known
steeplechase horse, fell in the Steeplechase at
Moonee Valley, and had to be destroyed. King
John, who ran well, was ridden by Mr. Thomas
Watson without a saddle A rifle team has been
selected in Queensland to proceed to Sydney to
compete in the intercolonial match The Ballarat
Hunt Club, at a banquet, presented a purse of
sovereigns to Mr. W. T. Jones, the ex-secretary —
Mr. J. J. R'chardson elected vice-commodore of
Sydney Amateur Satiing Club .. An intercolonial
caess match between New South Wales and Vic-
toria arranged for 9th November H. Scott, of
the Australian Eleven, has gained over a stone in
weight during the trip to England, and developed
into a really punishing batsman. To use the words
of one member of the team, Scott now “ hits like a
horse kicking.”
• • •
Two diminutive camels, no larger than
poni.-s, and btlonging to an exceedingly rare
species, have been presented to the city of Paris
by the Phah of Persia, as a gift of the highest
value... A leading sporting paper in America
states that some of the horses which run in the
name and colours of a prominent member of the
English Jockey Club are really the property of a
well-known money-lender.... The death at Chan-
tilly, of Flatman, the jockey, is announced. He
was for many years the “Fordham of France,”
and won the French Derby several times. He had
nearly completed four-score years Says the
Sporting Times: “ Murdoch’s 211 was the grandest
and most artistio innings ever witnessed on a
cricket-ground; and the old country cannot pro-
duce such a bat as this.”... Maud S. exhibited no
signs of distress after her unparalleled perform-
ance, and was led to her stable amid excited chper-
ing, followed by a crowd of jubilant admirers. She
had no work for ten days. She was in charge of
Captain Stone, and before the start for the fast
test, Stone said to Bair, “ I will give you 3000 dol.
if you beat tho record of Jay-Bye-See, not having
any idea that such a performance was possible.
The record was beaten, and Bair got his 3000 dol ..
W. G. George, the English champion amateur,
keeps up the monotony of record breaking. He
did agrass mile ar. Gloucester in 4min. 202-ssec.,
and at Worcester he accomplished a similar task in
4-min. 19 4-ssec The American athletes, who re-
cently visited Kngland, appear to have divested
themselves of their amateurship by accepting £5O
to run at a Stourbridge meeting His Excellency
Sir Hercules Robinson has formed the nucleus of
a racing stable at the Cape of Good Hope, having
purchased Merlo from Mr. barber, Adventurer
from Mr. Alexander van der Byl, and Bonnet
Rouge, a rising two year old, from Mr. J.
H. Hofmeyr, and the three year old Matter-
horn is on the way out from England
G. B. Studd has broken an arm and a rib—A
young naval officer, the other evening at Ports-
mouth, for a wager made with some of his com-
panions, entered the den of lions exhibited by
“Colonel” Boone at the local Hippodrome, and
will probably be called upon to answer to his
superiors for his foolhardiness R. Howell, of
Coventry, and F. Wood, of Leicester, rode for the
One Mile Championship of the World and £5O at
the Molineux Grounds. They had been doing
strict training the whole of last week, and both
seemed to be in excellent condition. Wood being
the favourite. The Leicester man won the toss,
and after the start Howell went to the front, but
was soon passed by. his rival, who held it until half-
way round the third lap, when Howell made a
grand spurt and led by about two yards. Wood
then put all on, but could not gain a foot. Howell,
gradually creeping away from his opponent, and
riding in grand style, won by four clear yards,
amid loud applause from the spectators. It was
anticipated that they would beat record, but they
did not. The time was 2 min. 47 4 5 sec At Bir-
mingham (Eng.) on July 19, L. E. Myers, the Ameri-
can amateur champion, gave W. Snook, the Eng-
lish ex-champion, 32 yards' start in 1000. Snook
won by a couple of yards; but Myers ran the dis-
tance in 3 min. 14 l-sth sec.—the fastest time ever
recorded in England. In America Myers’ best
time is 3 min. 13 sec.
Woman Items
Recently, the wife of a labourer in East
Yorkshire gave birth to a girl with two noses, the
one placed over the other. When, in days to come,
she turns up her nose ’at a fellow, it will mean
a lot.
A leading actress was one recent day en |
gaged in conversation with a select circle of visi-
tors, when her maid came to announce the arrival
of the hairdressor. “ Oh,” replied she, “ show him
into my boudoir and tell him to begin at once. I
will be with him shortly.”
A young lady in Ulster County, N.Y.,
called at a lawyer’s office in Kingston, the other
day, and asked to have a suit begun against a former
lover for breach of promise. “He promised to
marry me four times, she said, “ but ho hasn’t
kept nis word, and my affections are all blighted.”
“ How much damage do you wish to claim ?” said
the polite lawyer. “Well, I was blighted four
times, and I think $lOO a blight is none too much.”
So suit was entered at $4OO damages for four
blights.
French mothers-in-law owe a debt of
gratitude to M. Naquet, the author of the Divorce
Bill. One of the grounds on which a divorce can
be claimed is l'injure— that is, giving offence to
any member of the petitioner’s family. If a man
gets into a rage with “mamma” he may expect
to see his wife march out of the door on her way
to the Divorce Court. There will henceforth be
no such thing as saying, when you have quarrelled
with your wife, “Yes, my dear, you go to your
ma, and I’ll go to my ma.”
A lately published novel, “ Dream Faces,”
is printed in mauve-coloured ink instead of the
orthodox black. For a man of bilious tempera-
ment to read half a dozen pages mitht involve
sudden death and a v erdict of felo de se. By and
bye we shall have the pages where the unsuccess-
ful lover begins to get jealous printed in green,
and the account of the murder stamped out in
deep red, with some blots of gore on the sides of
the page; and the place where the hero’s mother-
in-law comes to stay with him for a week will be
encompassed by a deep mourning border.
A divorce case was recently heard in which
the respondent was the wife of a London mer-
chant, and the co-respondent the butler of the
establishment. One of the witnesses called was a
lady’s maid, when the following colloquy took
place:—Counsel: “Have you ever observed any
undue familiarities between your mistress and the
butler?" Witness: “ Yes, I have, sir, frequently.”
Counsel: “Oh, you have, have you? And, pray,
what was the nature of those familiarities ?” Wit-
ness: “Well, sir, missis and the butler used to
quarrel like man and wife. ’ There’s a world of
meaning in that little phrase.
She was fifty-eight, and still had the
neatest of figures. But her face was terribly
wrinkled, and she wore a thick veil. It was need-
less to say she was a Frenchwoman. She was in
the habit of visiting all sorts of out-of-the-way
shops in search of bric-a-brac. A venerable masher,
with elaborately-dyed whiskers and a wig, was at-
tracted by her figure. He got to know her haunts,
and persistently followed her about. For a long
time they did not speak, but one day she suddenly
found him standing behind her at the window of a
picture-dealer’e. Said he: “ You seem, madame, to
be a great lover of eld curiosities.” Quickly she
lifted her veil: “And you also, monsieur.”
A young woman from the country was sue-
ing her ex-s * eetheart for breach of promise, and
the lawyers were, as usual, making all sorts of
inquisitive interrogatories. “ You say,” remarked
one, “ that the defendant frequently sat very close
to you?” “Yes, sir,” was the reply, with a hectic
flush. “How close?” “Close enough.” “And
you say he put his arm around?” “No, I didn't.”
"What did you say, then?” “I said he put both
arms around me.” “ Then what ?” “He hugged
me.” “Very hard?” “Yes, he did. So hard that
I was near screaming out.” “ Why didn’t you
scream?” “’Cause.” “That’s no reason. Be ex-
plicit, please. Because what ?” “ ’Cause I was
afraid he’d stop,” was the reply.
Anna Judic, who has been engaged to go
to America, has been for years the queen of opera
bouffe in Paris. That means a good deal. It does
not mean that Judic would be specially qualified
to teach in a Sunday school. In fact, strict people
might even call her naughty. It was when the
Germans raised the siege of Paris, that Judio was
first heard in her dainty singing and risqui saying
of songs in a cafd chantant. She was a mere girl
then, but she had the loveliest arms, the shapeliest
ankles, and the most luxuriant of dark tresses.
Yet the talent far outweighed all other attractions.
It had a stamp of its own—a mixture of sensuous-
ness, piquancy, and delicate refinement. When
she had a risqui verse to sing, she made it seem
tenfold as improper as it really was, by under-
lying it with gl mces, sighs, and heavings of a fair
white bosom. Judio does not fall into vulgarity—
she produces effects by subtle shades, coy, yet
wicked, half unveilings, and her by-play is the
best on the stage of Europe—hence the upper
world and its women crowd to see her. Judic is to
receive £3OO a night in New York.
In lolliffe v. Gossem—an English case, in
which a domestic servant sued a carter for breach
of promise—plaintiff said that defendant, in break-
ing off his engagement, complained of her very
violent temper; temper, she admitted, was a weak
point with her. In August, 1883, plaintiff appeared
to have gone to defendant’s office, and asked for
an explanation. A quarrel ensued, in which plain-
tiff struck him with her fist in the face, and gave
him a black eye; and when he tried to getaway
from her, she followed him and struck him with
an umbrella he had made a present to her shortly
before. In plaintiff’s cross-examination, she said
that during the courtship they had frequent quar-
rels, but not so many as two every weea. Plaintiff
got a verdict for £75 damages. He was lucky to
get rid of her at the price. In this case are exem-
plified two things: firstly, that, as Rochefoucauld
has declared, the joy of love is in loving, as we are
much happier in the passion we cherish than in
that which we excite; and, secondly, that once a
promise to marry is made, there is no possible
escape from the provisions of the existing state of
the English and colonial law relating to such con-
tracts, if the matter is brought into Court. The
quarrels of lovers are no longer "the renewal of
love.”
August Flowjsr.—The most miserable
beings in the world are those suffering from Dys-
pepsia and Liver Complaint. More than seventy-
five per cent. of the people are afflicted with these
two diseases and their effects : such as Sour
Stomach, Sick Headache, Habitual Costiveness,
Palpitation of the Heart, Heart-burn, Waterbrash,
gnawing and burning pains at the pit of the
Stomach, Yellow Skin, Coated Tongue and disa-
greeable taste in the mouth, coming up of food
after eating, low spirits, &c. Go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of August Flower. This valuable
medicine has cured thousands and thousandA_of
sufferers and is known in all civilized countries.
Two doses will relieve you. It costs only 3s. od. a
bottle. Sample bottle s Od.


F D
HNIT U H B SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Sprint streets, Bydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
Library furniture, centre and side
TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room" suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Inspection. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for dubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
"[BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
_D and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-Pound bedroom suiTEs.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washatand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE
with swing glass attached ; PEDESTAL CUPI
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLET, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3108.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S
*
OQ PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
oWOtl strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs In Blaek and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also In Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
o
OCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O’Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NRVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
ThRAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-
JLI A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
FIHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND.
marble top, 80s the pair.
UIULL SUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDK-
Jtj BOARD, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Connell-street.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIkP
Patented.
'A
r:r-
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice vena, at the will or
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superier
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desirea.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash— strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thicKness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). _____ -
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early R n £*. is ( „’
and other designs, which can be upholstered m
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb. -
RAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM"~FURN£-
TURE, Handsome and Massive,Jn W
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upkotatery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, an
LAMB, Spring and O'Connell-streets. .
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass:
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamm
B
EDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb
BEDDING.- All descriptions at lowest rate*;
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O Lon
Bell and Spring streets. —-
ASHSTANDB, with marble, from *• <*° h
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB. .
-h ARDEN SEATS," 20s: Verandah Chairs,
fjT INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAU
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-fltreet^
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.-A very eomple**
Assortment; best make, low est prices
SOCIAL
Two happy hearts were linked in the par-
lour at Warreston, rtedfern, on Wednesday week,
when the Rev. T. J. Curtis performed the marriage
ceremony between Mr. John Serisier, of Dubbo
Sldest son of the late Jean Emile Serisier), and
iss Constance Alexandria Bayliss (youngest
daughter of the late Joseph Bayliss, of Sydney).
The young bride looked lovely in a long-trained
white satin dress, with flounces of Stephanie lace,
artistic draperies, and trimmings and wreath of
real orange-blossoms. Her sisters, Misses Emsie
and Lily Bayliss, were bridesmaids, wearing pretty
terra-cotta satin dresses trimmed with silk Valen-
ciennes lace, and berry wreathß to match. A num-
ber of very handsome costumes were seen amongst
the relatives and friends who gathered to grace
the happy occasion. Mrs. Bolger (mother of the
bride) looked happy and handsome in a green
broche dress trimmed with honiton lace; and Mrs.
Bertaux (mother of the bridegroom) wore a mag-
nificent navy-blue velvet with satin front and long
train, the dress being beautifully trimmed with
Brussels lace. Mrs. G. J. Hayliss wore a fine brow n
satin, decked with coffee lace; and Mrs. Goodwin,
a green broche trimmed with fine honiton. Mrs.
Fitz-Boyd wore a crimsoD spotted tunic over skirt
of cream nun's veiling; and Mrs. G. Brook, a fine
fawn broche and brown satin. Madame Keller-
mann wore an elegant toilet, consisting of trained
dress of sky-blue broche with Mechlin lace trim-
mings, and feather coiffure to "match; Mrs.
M'Donald, darkest green broche; AM iss Strachan,
a cream nun’s veiling and brown pompons;
Mrs. M‘Coy, slate broche and ottoman dress.
Miss Davenport looked bright in a toilet of brown
satin and grey broche, Miss Eva Davenport wore
straw-coloured madras muslin with lace, and Miss
Dolly Davenp;rt, a grey silk tunic with white
spots and laoe trimmings. Miss Parker was ex-
tremely pretty in cream cashmere; Miss M‘Coy, a
nice dress of brown corded silk and broche, coffee
lace trimmings; Miss Lippman, dove cashmere and
lace flounces; Mrs. Hayes, dark-green ottoman and
broche; Mrs. Davies,, dark-blue velvet, watered
silk skirt. Sixty guests sat down to a Compagnoni
breakfast, when merry speeches were made, the
Rev. Curtis being particularly facetious on the
subject of matrimony. Mr George Brock pro-
posed the “ Happy Couple,” and Mr. John Davies,
the “ Host and Hostess.” By the afternoon train
Mr. and Mrs. Serisier went to Katoomba, and
thence to their new home at Dubbo. A large
number of handsome presents formed the subject
of much critical admiration. In the evening, Mr.
and Mrs. Bolger gave a party, and a cool night
and splendidly large rooms enabled all the guests
to enjoy themselves thoroughly. Elaborate de-
corations adorned the walls, the garlands and
flowers being especially pretty. The floor was in
the best condition, and Mr. Hall and violinist pro-
vided music in first-class style, while numerous
little intervals were devoted to the devastation of
the supper-tables, which were richly spread. It
was late in the morning when the last of the guests
took their leave, after spending, as all agreed, a
Splendid night.
Seventy guests sat down to the banquet
provided by Cripps, in the rooms of the Secular
Association, last week, to mark the second annual
conference of Freethinkers, and to welcome the
delegates from Melbourne, branch associations,
&c. Mr. Thomas Walker, President, occupied the
chair, supported by Messrs. Joseph Symes, Charles
Bright, and a number of ladies. The toast oi the
Queen was carefully omitted, as not being con-
sonant with the Hepubllcan tendencies of Secu-
larism. Mr. M'Cormtek proposed the cause of
“ Freethought,” and Mr. Bright, who has devoted
the last ten years of his life to its interests, replied,
alluding to the fact that some men had to suffer
socially because they could not honestly think as
others held they ought to think. Another unusual
toast was “The People and their Homes, by Mr.
Kelly, Mr. Boss replying. Most of the history of
the world has been written about kings and wars,
or, as Green has it, a “ drum and trumpet history;
but it is the people make a nation great, not
their puppet kings. On the pageantry of war
has sympathy been wasted, but it is in humble
homes that most real heroism is shown. Yet
the homes of the struggling poor in Great
London to-day are of less interest to the rich than
the housing: of their dogs and horses Next, Mr.
James Finch, hon. treasurer of the A.S.A., was
presented with a handsome and costly silver
tankard and stand, and that gentleman having
acknowledged the gift, the silver wine cup was
passed round to the ladies. Several recitations
and songs were given during the evening, but the
most interesting feature was the speeches made
by ladies. Mr. Skinner toasted them, as the source
cf our hopes, honours, and successes, and Mrs.
Bright, in replying, regretted that ladies were not
oftener present on suoh occasions, the nrst time,
she said, “ I was asked to go to a banquet was not to
take part in it. I was kindly invited to go to the
gallery, and see the gentlemen feed (laughing).
1 was pretty independent then, as I am still, and I
indignantly refused. (Hear). The next time was
to take part in the Conference banquet, at Dunedin
in March; and when I was asked to come here to-
night, I was glad, because it is a step in the right
direction, for there will be no social progress so
long as men take their pleasures by themselves.
I should also like to see ladies take active
part in the debating societies; both sexes would
make progress by the contact. Mrs. Attwater
next rose, saying, I, too, am glad that gentlemen
recognise that it is right for ladies to sit to.a ban-
quet with them, and enjoy it with them; and hope
that the time is not distant when we shall join, not
only at banquets, but in our club-rooms togethei,
and go to the polls and vote together, without at
all undoing our true womanhood. Tms disputed
point of woman's rights is not iairly understood,
even by Liberalists. We do not ask to step into
your shoes and do your work. All we want is that
you will allow us to do what Nature has designed
us to do, and to receive the wages of man when we
have done work as well as he. (Cheers.) Another
thing—and perhaps some of you will not coincide
with me—l hope the time will come when ladies
and gentlemen can sit to a banquet f°/JGther
out any intoxicants on the table. (Ohl ah I and
sighs.) I see ths hands don’t clap quite so readily
at that. Well, I didn’t expect it; you have a right
to think otherwise -but 1 hope the time will come,
because when a thing has been proved to have
done more evil than good in the world, it should
not be countenanced. (Hear.) Miss Stone and
Mrs. Cockerton also spoke. Mr. Walker proposed
“ Our Guests,” and other speeches followed, the
company not breaking up till midnight. A string
band gave the musical accompaniments, and the
walls were adorned with banners bearing the
names of men specially reverenoed by Secularists.
* * *
Whoever may have been to blame, the
fact remains that the Freethinkers’ soiree did not
commence till the extraordinary hour of a quarter
to nine. By that time there was a good audience
in the Masonic Hall. The concert programme was
short, Mr. Boyle leading off with “The Roll Call,
and Mr Wenban following with “The Gauntlet.
Mr. Coll, who has an excellent enunciation, gave
with some power a recitation entitled ‘The Jewish
Maiden,” composed by Mr. Thomas Walker. Its
sentiments are hardly orthodox enough to render
it a favourite in ordinary Sunday-schools; as a
piece of declamation, it has strong merits.
« Jessie’s Dream ” was contributed by Miss Saun-
ders; and Mr. H. Ward’s singing of “A Friar of
Orders Grey ” was encored. An excessively vul-
gar piece, called “ Aaron and Moses,” amused
those people who liked it; and “ Will-o-the-Wisp
was contributed by Mr. Barnett. A duet by Messrs.
Finch and Stewart closed the list, and the alacrity
with which chairs were moved showed that there
was no deep desire to have it lengthened. Dancing
started before ten, Mr. Josepu Somers doing well
at the piano, assisted by four others. The supper
tables were spread by T. Cripps, and well
patronised. Round the wails were the names of
celebrated Freethinkers—Voltaire, Volney, Holy-
oake, Bradlaugh, Tyerman, Cooper, Bruno, Paine,
Spinoza, Besant, and Ingersoll, each of these
renowned gentlemen being neatly mounted on a
shield or banner of pleated satin. These were lent
from the Lyceum, to which institution the gentle-
men in question (Mrs. Besant, however, being a
lady) have apparently “lent their patronage.”
While the more staid and elderly parties exercised
that glorious privilege which is inscribed on their
banner, “Liberty,” by choosing to sit still and
deal with fruit and pastry, the young ones added
dance on to dance in quick succession, and, though
the floor was rather gritty, enjoyed themselves a
good deal. Though full dre3B was not universal, a
number of pretty toilets were seen. A smoke-
coloured tarletan was one of the nicest, charm-
ingly made, and in geod taste. A particularly
lively girl was as green as a toy tree, and she came
from Palmer-street. A costume all of flowing
white was also nice; and a small brunette pretty
in all pink. A tall Melbourne lady wore a simple
slatey-blue lined with red; and a young ladv in
figured ruby velvet was very favourably looked
upon. But the honours of the evening were cer-
tainly divided between a pretty girl from Castle-
leagh-street in orange sateen and blue garland,
and a handsome married lady in a cream corded
silk dress with a train—the wire of an orator.
* * *
We are glad to announce that Mr. and
Mrs. Percy Jones have arranged to give a grand
concert in aid of the Balmain Rowing Club, on
Friday, 24th October, in the local School of Arts.
It is as thoughtful as it is liberal of these clever
musicians to thus assist their local club, and many
others who have it in their power might do like-
wise. But they seldom do—perhaps because they
don’t think. Most of the leading residents have
already booked tickets, and, as a splendid pro-
gramme is promised, it will probably be one or the
most fashionable affairs yet seen of the kind in
Balmain.
One of the cheeriest little balls of the sea-
son was that on Friday, which closed the Socials
held through; the Winter at Tattersall’s. The
closing ball, however, for which Mr. W. Dickson
was honorary secretary, was held in the bright
rooms at Nithsdale, and it produced an array of
pretty toilettes which is not often excelled. It is
impossible to detail all the good ones, but the fol-
lowing are a few of them. A married lady, whose
pleasant face is always wreathed with a smile of
content, wore old gold satin draped with large
tabs of ruby velvet, and round the skirt were rows
of sunflowers. Her sister wore another excellent
costume, the body being cardinal broche, and the
skirt, which was of cream veiling, was livened
with long narrow panels between the pleats, bear-
ing green sprig-work crewelled in silks. Crushed
strawberry was chosen by a handsome blonde; and
cardinal by a smaller and blonde maiden. A young
lady with a very sweet and gentle face wore a neat
am veiling with spangled muslin flounces; a tall
brunette from over the water wore pink flowered
sateen, and was distinguished for dancing; but a
young lady in three shades of mauve and lavender
was also pre-eminent for that accomplishment,
beaded black velvet bodice and cream veiling skirt
were worn by a fair flutterer; white satin bodice
and three muslin flounces gave an air of substan-
tiality to a really fragile young lady, whose general
demeanour was decidedly flirty; while a pretty
girl from down South wore a pretty dress of pink
over ruby velvet underskirt, and her Woollahra
companion was delioious in white and cream. A
graceful girl, whose set smile seemed to indicate
that she is satisfied with the world in general—or
with some one in particular—looked nice in claret
velvet bodice and small white flounces. Itjis rather
unusual to see ball-room bodices laced in front
now, but one looked ever so pretty on a slender
brunette, worn with plain net skirt bound with
satin ribbon at the hem. Except a faint pink
wreath, the whole dress was white, and was one ef
the prettiest in the room. Another all white cos-
tume, that was a treat in the way of good taste,
was satin bodice cut low, with a tuft of green
plumage on the bust, a light flounced skirt; the
sparkle of silver in the wearer’s black hair com-
pleting her prettiness. There were 34 dances on
the list, and several extras inserted, the music by
Mr. Ernest Needs’ band being first-class. Messrs.
A, W. Pearce and D. H. Heaton saw to the com-
fort of everyone on the floor, and from the plea-
sant way the Social’s first annual ball passed off,
there is no doubt it will be repeated next year.
• • •
One of the most successful Masonic balls
ever held at Emmaville came off in the looal
Music Hall on the 38th ultimo. The hall was
splendidly decorated for the event. About forty-
five couples assembled, including visitors from
Glen Innes, Tenterfield, and Inverell. A pro-
gramme of twenty-four dances was commenced at
nine o’clock sharp. A fascinating young lady in
pink and ivy-leaves danced admirably; two sisters
looked well, one in cream, the other in black
broche trimmed with real white Maltese lace; a
cream dress with sky-blue satin trimming was
greatly admired. The belle was a handsome
brunette dressed in cream Madras fcmuslin with
cardinal body.
• ■ *
Honour to whom honour is due, and it is
fair to say the Gundagai ladies recently eclipsed
all previous records in their retui'n ball to the
gentlemen of the late assembly. Decorations,
music, and supper were all splendid. The cham-
pagnes, wines, and fruit were only equalled by the
ladies themselves, their dresses, and their smiles.
And the variety of both and all would satisfy
every ta3te. Though the characters at the last
fancy dreßS affair also figured at this, one or two
fresh costumes appeared. A lady from Edwards-
town, representing Germany, won many admirers
by her step and style; one of four sisters was
charming as the better half of a Pinafore sailor;
“ Gundagai Times ” was a character in a suit made
of several copies of that journal printed on linen.
Boveral evening costumes looked well; especially
those worn by a lady from Adelong Crossing, by a
Yammatree lady, and by the daughter of theC.P.B.
Dispersed at 4.30 a.m.
* » *
The Eight-hour procession on Monday was
a very large affair, including 18 different societies,
each with banners differing from one another in
glory, and each with a band. The bands differed,
too After processing through the streets, they
went to Parramatta, and had sports and speeches,
and drew the art-union. All was conducted with
vigour and punctuality by the committee, but the
continual rain spoiled all pleasure. The train ar-
rangements were what the Secretary described as
“ very, very far from perfect.” In the evening, a
banquet was held in West’s rooms. Mr. R. H. Brown
in the chair, supported by the Mayor and the Trea-
surer. There were present the following members
of Parliament, Messrs. Cameron, Sutherland, S.
Smith. Luscombe, Garrard, O’Connor, Burdefcin,
Hammond, Abigail, Griffiths, Merriman, Oiliffe,
and G. Withers. A late start was made at half-
past eight, and grace having been said no time was
lost in vanquishing the victuals or loitering over
the loyal toasts. The “ octo r horal gents ’ (as Gar-
net Waloh calls them) freely * x Dressed their con-
currence or dissent, as the diff rent speakers ex-
pounded their views; and cerUinly their views
were not all alike. Mr. Dibbs considered the Gov-
ernment ot this country had done more tor the
working men than in other countries; Mr. Dan.
O’Connor emphatically announced that the Go-
vernment had done nothing for them. Mr.
Dibbs said that if men enjoyed the privilege
Of only eight hour’s labour they must not
forget there was a deep obligation on them to
Dut a portion of the remaining sixteen hours to
good use—a man who would rise above his fellows
must exercise his mental powers ; and a few
thoughtful •'hear-hears ” greeted ms words. All
the Treasurer’s observations were not approved;
but he said: “lam going to speak plain to you; 1
don’t intend to tone my remarks tj make them
popular.” Mr. Angus Cameron, in a long speech,
told the horny-handed all he had done tor them;
but, still, there were decided groans, though
low, when he sat down—and his reception al-
together was not a particularly warm one. Mr.
John Sutherland’s was. He proposed the Trades
and Labour Council of N.S.W., in lieu of
Mr. Copeland, who was absent. Mr. W. terrier,
the secretary, strongly urged that the day of the
eight-hour demonstration should be a public holi-
day; and others were equally pressing as to that—
notably Mr. Douglas, from Melbourne, who said
the day was made much more of in Melbourne,
where it received an official, as well as almost
national, recognition; and be pointed out that
women should also be emancipated from their
terribly long hours of labour in shops- Mr.
O’Connor asked his audienoe to realise that on that
day they celebrated one of the greatest triumphs
of an age of civilisation —the enfranchisement of
human labour; nor to forget the memory of one
who had done so much for them, the late Irancis
Burdett Dixon—to-night, he hoped, enjoying the
blessings of heaven. This day must, said Daniel,
it shall, be a public holiday. Toasts were
numerous, and the whole banquet of an easy and
genial kind. While the cigars were puffing, it was
announced that the proprietor of the rooms had
stipulated there should be no smokijpg, and he re-
quested that they be put out. The idea of a
banquet where it is forbidden to smoke a oigar
would hardly meet with favour.
• • *
On Tuesday, 30th September, the School of
Arts, Burwood, was gaily decorated with flags and
evergreens, to weloome the guests of Mrs. Edward
Griffith and Mrs. Fred. Broughton, who, anxious
to afford the young people a treat, gave a fancy
dress ball. It was the first private juvenile fancy
dress dance given in the Western suburbs, and
was in every way an eminent success. It gathered
in its brilliant galaxy some of the fairest young
faces New Bouth Wales can boast of; it produced
a display of dresses that were, many of them, as
exquisite as art and taste could make them; and it
afforded Buch a glorious night’B enjoyment to the
youthfu' throng as will long remain a bright page
in their memory. And children do treasure up
these memories. Dancing commenced at 8 p.m.,
to music rendered by that highly appreciated
musician. Professor Sauerbier, and was kept up
spiritedly till after 13 o’clock. The guests num-
bered about 170; and, as the party was a novelty in
Burwood, a host of parents and friends witnessed
the pretty scene from the stage. One of the most
charming dances of the evening was the cotillon,
which was much admired. The M.C. wore a hand-
some fancy costume as Faust, and through his
energy aria courtesy the young folks were kept
well going, and wasted no time waiting for part-
ners. A Venetian Lady of 18th Century was very
beautiful, and the attire suited the wearer
excellently. Mary-Mary-quite-Contrary was a
lovely dress and well carried out. Two little
gentlemen—one as Courtier of 18th Century, and
the other as Bambini—were perfection, as was also
a dark young gentleman as Prince Rupert, whose
dress would have shown better had he danced a
little more. One little picture was Snow, a dear
child, admired and caressed by old and young.
Old Mother Hubbard was splendid, both in looks
and acting her part. My Pretty Maid and Coming
thro’ the Rye were both nicely costumed and very
successful. A little brother and sister as Huoter
and Huntress, who moved about with youthful
abandon among their older friends, were capital.
Mascotte was excellently got-up. A fine and
striking-looking girl of about ten summers was a
delicious Cherry Ripe. Flower Girls, Spanish
Ladies, Air, Music, Night,Five o’clock Tea, Patience,
Good-luok, and a host of other young ladies were
kept circling in the jocund dance by Admirals,
Captains, Fishermen, Courtiers, Jesters, and other
fantastic but fond young gentlemen. A pretty
programme of 30 dances was supplied, and the
hostess of Emlyn and Leicester House can
look back on their happy children s hop as one
of the most successful affairs of the kind Burwood
has ever had.
A very enjoyable dance was given by Mrs
Lomer on Friday, atChesney Wold, Glebe Point.
Guests were numerous, and arrangements nrst-
ctaBB. The hostess wore blaok, with long, tight
gloves; and her daughter, in white, with pale pink
roses, was the best waltzer. A late bride, in white
satin and pompon fringe, delighted with her ex-
quisite touches upon the new grand piano, and her
younger sister was also charming in white. A
lovely, soft-looking dress was worn by a widow-
skirt flounced with white eidelweiss laoe to the
waist and looped with black velvet, white broohe
body. A married lady looked well in cream satin
and laoe, with trimmings of pearls and roses; and
another equally so in purple and black satin, pearl
ornaments in hair. A graceful young lady in blue
and white was a favourite in the ball room; and a
fair young lady, with pretty dimpled face, was ad-
mirable m cream satin skirt and ruby velvet
bodice. Pale blue and pink roses were very be-
coming to a sweet-faced girl. The night was all
one could wish, and the new conservatory well
patronised, as well as the grounds.
* * *
Among the attractions at Tamworth
Agricultural Show were a skipping contest and a
baby display. The infants were of absorbing
interest, but most young men liked the skipping
best, because the girls were bigger, and—oh, for a
lot of reasons. Tne judging of the babies was
done by gentlemen; all specially selected for their
large experience among such exhibits. The babies
were models of vivacity, beauty, and symmetry,
and, the Tamworth paper innocently observes,
“the same may be said of the skipping.” First
prize was taken by Baby Bissaker, alleged to be a
very beautiful girl, strongly its
parents. According to the local paper, “ Mr. Bus-
sell’s baby came second.” Mr. Bussell! Sainted
mamma, this is too I®adl Baby Bussell seems to
have come to the front chiefly on account of
solidity, weighing, at nine months old, 29tt>. we
don’t know what sex this plump specimen of a
mother’s pride is supposed t> be; but, if its a
girl, what a weight she will be on the knee by and
bye!
** * *
On Ist instant was the annual pionic of
Nimrod Fishing Club at Frank Smith’s pavilion.
Botany. Nearly 300 were there in all, and the
Mayor chaired it at the banquet, at the close of
which the season’s prizes were presented. Dancing
then went on, and the company returned to Sydney
at dusk. The fish will now have a little rest.... At
the Secularists’ soiree, a graceful feature of the
evening was the stage waltz danced with castanets
by Misses Cahill and Garton....Goulburn railway
men had a ball on Friday night —Last week, the
White Rose Lodge of Free Gardeners held a supper
and ball in the Marriokville Town Hall, Mr. Joseph
Graham being chairman. Dancing till far on in
the morning.... Wood-carters have their picnic to-
day at Kelly’s, Botany.... Oddfellows are to have
the Exhibition on Wales’s Birthday for their gala.
The Traffic Branch of N.S.W. Railways will
have a picnic excursion to Parramatta Park
on the 14th instant. There will also be a lun-
cheon at 1 o’clock at Cripps’s Hotel there..
Last month, at Emu Vale, Goulburn River (Wes-
tern District), a fine bachelors’ ball was given.
Mrs. Simpson managed capitally, assisted by Miss
Buchanan of Edina. Some guests came long dis-
tances. Miss Fannie Simpson looked very charm-
ing in a rich black velvet, broche, and cream laoe.
Miss Lucy Frost and Miss Maud Tindall of Mudgee,
also Mis« Alice Thompson and Miss Morris of the
Goulburn, were attired with special beauty. Miss
Harpur, of Emu Vale, proved an amiable as well
as clever pianiste; and at twelve o’clock a line
supper was besieged by the hungry dancers, who
then flitted round again till sunrise—Ryde C.C.
concert, Wednesday se’nnight, very successful,
local brass band assisting... On the ittth ult. there
was a good ball in the Oddfellows Hall, Grenfell,
dancing all night....lnverell Hospital ball on the
17th inst.... Ladies at Brewarrina gave the gentle-
men a ball, in return for the Winter quadrille
parties.... Mr. T. Chambers is hon. secretary of an
attempt to form a club of old residents from North-
unberland and Durham.. .Private Assembly in the
Town Hall, Campbelltown, on Friday, 24tn inst.,
which is expected to be very nice ...Testimonials
are common enough, but not such as that to Mr.
Pick on Saturday afternoon. Mr. Vessian Pick
has been nearly thirty years with C. Newton Bros ,
and at a complimentary picnic at Chowder the
firm presented him with 100 guineas and his fellow-
i employes gave him a handsome present and thirty
guineas more. He was the first entering olerfe
of the firm, he is now retiring from busi-
(For continuation of SoeiAl* •«« next page.'


L HOTEL,
BRISBANE STREET,
Launceston.
THIS centrally-situatcd Hotel, having under-
gone considerable alterations »nd improve-
ments, now offers every comfort and convenience
to visitors and commercial gentlemen.
The Hotel is now under the management of
MRS. PYLE,
late of the ORIENTAL HOTEL. Colllns-street
East; BEACONSFIELD HOTEL, St. Kilda ; and
Waverley House, Collins-place, Melbourne.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGE-STREET.
£lO,OOO.— MELBOURNE CUP.
Shares, 10s. each.)
THE SYDNEY SPORTING CLUB, Sydney.
desires to point out to the public generally
tne advantages to be derived from holding shares
m their Consultation or Sweep. Ist. All persons,
whether male or female, holding a share or shares
Iho h«^i bov # 9i. üb Ai ar ,? a, ' va y s at liberty to inspect
of t he Club. 2nd. Every opportunity is
offered to each and every shareholder to be at the
arawmg, who choose to make application lor
admission ticket. And, lastly, from the enormous
number of our prizes, one is almost sure to win
one or other.
, Plan of Distribution :
First horse ... £3OOO, 10 prizes, £lOO
£lOOO
1000
750
1001
1000
Second „ ... icoo 40 „ ' 25
Third „ .. 500 150 „ 15
Starters divide.. 500 1 100 „ 10
Non-starters .. 250 1 200 „ 5 1000
0 The above facts and figures speak for themselves,
« will be only necessary to add that some of
the best known sporting men of Sydney and Mei-
bourne are members of the Club above mentioned.
Our gigantic first prize, £30,0, by far the largest
offered in aDy consultation, is a fortune, which will
h® secured by investing 10s. ; our second horse,
£lOOO, a nice round sum; our third carries off £5OO-
- our prizes are far in advance of all competitors
fF pub}/ 0 support. Our drawing takes place on
November, if not previously filled, when,
of course, it will take place before. Result of
drawing sent at onoe to every subscriber, and ad-
vertised throughout the colonies. In sending
money, P. 0.0., bank cheques, or stamps will do*:
if gold be sent, register letter, tend addressed
envelope, unstamped, for reply; also, threepence
for membership fee. Write at once for our pro-
spectus—no charge. Tickets sent by return post.
Address J. J. ALLEN, Esq., Turf Commission
Sydney a^erBa 8 Buildings, Castlereagh-street,
p : 8 - shall, on this occasion, publish the name
?£ .‘h® winner of our first grand prize of £3OOO,
and also the names of those who win our other
great prizes In this grand Consultation.
£lOOO for ss.
Melbourne Cup, 1884.
The Great “ MALABAR ” Series of Sweeps on the
above Event.
No. 2 OF THE S FRIES.
SHARES, FIVE SHILLINGS EACH.
THE “Malabar” Club, Sydney, are desirous of
returning their very best thanks to their
numerous patrons for the cordial support in past
events, and trust that with their well-acknowledged
strict attention, coupled wl h thorough integrity,
to make the “ Malabar ” Consultatlons by far the
most popular of any in the colonies.
First horse £lOOO
Second ditto..
Third ditto- ..
Starters divide
Non-starters..
400
200
200
200
£2OOO
At the request of a large number of our sub-
enbers we have arranged to make our Shares but
ss. each, instead of £l, as before, which, of course,
to subscribers, is a great advantage, as it affords
Chances for One Pound of winning
One Thousand Pounds.
W® B^ l send also a single ticket to any address
°t tu” cb entitle the owner to
his chance of the big prize.
Tickets sent by return post. Prospectus free on
Enclose envelope, plainly addressed;
do not stamp it. Result of each drawing sent at
once to every subscriber.
Jackets sent by return post. Address, by letter
, ___ G. E. WILSON,
Pastoral Chambers, George-street, Sydney.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED*
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER cent
and IIPWAUDS for shorter periods! FIVE PER
CENT on sums from £! to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
DR. BOYD
„ 3 SPECIALIST,
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY. Regis-
OTBveS'l"? of N - 8 - w - Specific: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
®i e^ r °ity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &o. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address-ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal JKL d Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.< i. Box 673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.'
H-, 52 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Note.— Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BV MAIL OK IN PERSON.
ness, and when they choose his successor'
we hope they’ll have as good a pick ...All
Saints’ Glee Club gave a concert, at Auburn, in
the schoolroom, on Thursday. Vocal waltz was
very pretty. Miss Tunks, Master A. Curr, and Mr.
Teece assisted with songs and recitations.... Ball
ia Gormly’s rooms, Wagga, next week, in aid of
R.C. school fund. Dancing seems to bo a favourite
R.C. way of “ raising the dust.”.... An interesting
weddiDg at St. Johns, Tamworth, list week, was
that of the Vicar’s daughter, Miss Piddington,
to Mr, C. E. Kent, of Tasmania. Two bridesmaids
were Misses Ada Piddington and Kelman, and the
' church was bright with flowers and fair faces....
At N Wagga school treat, the skip Ding contest
was won by Miss A. Waters, with 597 skips. Miss
A. Morgan allowed 581 glimpses of her stockings
before she gave in. Lively sweethearts, by and
bye!....To-oay will be opened the first fancy fair
held in Newcast'e. There will be lots of novelties,
the Maypole dance every evening, and the
artisan’s band A Roman Catholic bazaar
at Tamworth has been a great boon dur-
ing the past week. As it it is a fancy dress
affair, the Tamworth girls haven’t had such a
chance for a long time. Most of them are named
either Cleary, Hickey, or Fogarty, and are appro-
priately dressed as rtalianPeasants... Cumberland
fruitgrowers have their annual picnic from Parra-
matta to Manly on the 26th October. ...On 22nd
October, the Glebe Rowing Club concert comes off
at Glebe;Town Hall, and the committee are making
great preparations for it.
V ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
“ Muswellbrook”: A fortnight too old, so only
casually mentioned—“H.J.”: You forgot the
names; we must know whom we write about.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Sydney Liedertafel October 9.
Ladies’ Ball (Petersham) October 10.
Bachelors’ Assembly (Nitbsdale) ....October 10.
Oxford Private Social (Protestant Hall) October 10.
Newtown Socials’ Ball October 10.
Amazon Q. A. Picnic October 14.
Mayor's Ball (Town Hall) October 15.
Produce Merchants’ Picnic (Botany)....October 16.
Glebe Football Club 8a11.... October 17.
Builders’ Picnic (Botany) ...October 21.
Eureka Plain and Fancy Ball (Tatter-
sall's Ha 11.... October2l.
Brisbane, Monday.
My Dear Belle,—True to my promise, you see
I am sending you a few lines from this pretty but
dusty city before my return. Do you know, the
people here are far more civilised than I expect
to find them? For example, on Mondays, wh
the Sydney post is in, there is hardly a respectal
man to be seen without his pink-covered Bull
tin. But they are more wicked than we are
Sydney—more openly wicked, I mean. They pi
tennis on Sunday afternoons, and have secu
music at nights. Dreadful, isn’t it ? And they a
so well posted up in each other’s concerns, tha
they are for all the world like one big family. Bu
on the whole, they are such a hospitable and kino
lot of people, that one can almost forgive the
their gossiping propensities. The Musical Ohio
under the conductorship of Mr. R. T. Jefferie
gave the “Redemption” one night, and, taking
altogether, it wasn’t a bad production. Th
soloists were weak, It’s true; but the orchestra w
astonishingly good—for Brisbane. All the Hi
were there, of course. Lady Musgrove, wh
walked into the hall like “one of the people
struck me as being a very nice, gracious lady, at
sat out the whole performance. Pretty Mi
Sutton was with her, and wore a soft cream dres
with trimming of cream feathers. Oh, yes I the
nave some idea of style here, I can assure yo
And then we have been having Gratta
Riggs at the Theatre Royal, whose pictur
in his various characters is in every shop window
and posted on every inch of spare wall about th
town. “Just look at his noble Oirish counten
ance,” I heard one Italian say to another the othe
day, and the fun of it is, you know, he isn’t a
Irishman after all. Of course it’s hard to bcliev
this after seeing him in the “ Irish Detective,” bu
it’s quite true.
The Bicycle Sports were held at Toowong on
baturday, and I think all Brisbane must have been
there, besides country people for miles around
Before we could reach the ground, we had t«v
fences to climb or squeeze through, the latte
being rather inconvenient for those wearing crino
lines. Rut it was fun—great] fun—and novel, be
sides. The amount of suffering we endured befor
reaching the sports was wonderful; but surely i
was worth it to see Bennett ( our Bennett, you
know,) beat the long-limbed Brisbane boys a
often as he chose, The train which was to take u
to Toowong was to leave the station at 3’&5; so
when it was five minutes past the time, I though
something must have happened, but upon giving
expression to my fears, I was assured that then
was no cause for alarm, as they weren’t particula
to half an hour or so in despatching the trains
here. This also was novel to me, being accus
tomed to our splendidly-managed Sydney lines; a
the same time I fancy my informant rather ex
aggerated matters, for we had only fifteen minutes
to wait, after all. But what with waiting for tho
train jumping down a four foot embankment, anc
Climbing fences, I can ted you when we got there
we leit that we had honestly e rned our after-
noon s amusement.
Now, for a word about the [dresses. I like as
wen as any a white muslin, adorned with plentiful
ounches of amber ribbon and white lace. A most
peculiar hat I saw was a large grey felt—some-
thing like a man’s slouch hat—with a coloured silk
Puggaree twisted round, and a double brim, which
looked just as if the wearer had donned two hats
mistake. And under this manuish headgear
was a sweetly pretty face, which attracted almost
much notice as the hat. An elephant's-breath
£°iw ume was extremely stylish on a tall lady; and
laiking of elephant’s breath, reminds me of some-
tning I heard yesterday. One of the Brisbane lady
aVv! A* 8 popping ia Finney, Isles, and Co , and
fntK t 0 • e shewn some grey [material which was
The serving girl, who doubtless
wished to air her superior knowledge, said, “ I
suppose, ma’am, you mean the elephant’s-breath
«mu Ur ? T . We il« no,” said the lady, suppressing a
ahol)m ancjr 14 is nearer to tne camels' sighs
e * • ™he Firl was crushed for a moment, but,
alo overm i ? her Presence of mind, exclaimed, “ Oh,
how stupid lam! Of course its camels
. Jf“ 8 ’ hut one does get confused sometimes be-
n the shades.” And it was only when she
that I ?? awar ? of tittering going on on all sides
« miu . wned upon her that her customer had had
Joke at her expense. Now, I must con-
rhor. 4 18 tar pleasanter to shop in Brisbane
hRi,? Sydney. For one thing, trade not
80 brisk shopkeepers show less inde-
i enaenoo of manner. And then if upon price-
an article you And it is t wo-and-sixpence, and
y ? u will take >*. th °y wiii
t o e jP-T7°« Bay t l l at f you >'fee you may have it for
one shilling and also that it shall be sent for you
JP.*?? “it, v 3, ’F u w, how can it pay them ?Oh I
this terrible heat! It is just imDossible to go to a
ball or party without your spirit-lamp and curling-
tongs— that is, unless you don't mind your hair
looking as straight as if you had just emerged
Jr om ?°-„ r But I suppose one gets used to
these trifles in time,
I have heard a little Sydney news by each mail
since my arrival, and conclude that they are hav-
ra.ther a gav time down there, what with Rita-
Radcliff concerts, Madame Marius and Miss Eva
lhompsons matinees, th* new opera “Estrella,”
and musical parties innumerable. Just read what
one ot the Sydney correspondents to one of the
'y Papers here says of the Rita-Ratcliff concerts:
me Ratcliff and Rita entertainments are im-
mensely popular; and they deserve to beso,forthey
are really wonderful. Tne keenest judge would
be puzzled to say which of the two is the more
wonder!ul—the performance of Ratcliff on the
flute or the singing of Madame Rita. And what is
more, when the two are heard together, it is not So
certain to an unprofessional ear which is the flute
and which is the voice. There is still another pro-
blem—viz., whether one is listening to birds or a
human voice and a wind instrument. Should these
talented performers come your way, they should
receive a warm welcome. The enthusiasm which
they evoke is something to hear. If possible, the
mite playing is better heard in private. I have
had the opportunity to hear Ratcliff at a private
concert, where about two hundred persons were
present in the music-room of one of our city man-
sions. It was exquisite.” Which proves what I
have told you before, dear-viz., that they only
need to be heard to be appreciated; but it appears
to me that they are doing too well in Sydney to
think it worth their while to come here.
We went to see the pretty Gardens one day, and
I must say the flowers are something exquisite.
They make a speciality of pansies, aim have them
in greater variety than I have ever before seen—
the ‘ coal black and “ lily white ” being particu-
larly quaint-looking. I never knew before why
Brisbane girls had such a *• washed out” look; but
when they go to balls four nights in a week, and
play tennis all the afternoon, it is little wonder.
The climate won’t allow them to lead such gay
lives with impunity, I remonstrated with *ome of
them, but they replied that "it was all very well
for us in Sydney, where we have so many theatres
and other amusements, but in tneir case, without
their balls and tennis, life wouldn’t be worth
An Eight Hours’ Demonstration.
having:.” Friday is their fashionable theatre night,
when the Governor ana suite are generally present.
But this is enough about Brisbane, I am sure;
and by next week I hope to send you a long letter
from Sydney, which, I have no doubt, will be more
interesting to you. Till then, good-bj e.
Yours, ever,
MAR.
TO CORRESPONDENT.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Jasey”: Send along “S.” (Brisbane):
Thu metre is faultless, but the subject is common-
place, and the method of treatment wanting in
piquancy —“J. H. Reardon”: Keoeived "Ex-
celsior”: Try your hand at a few short "pars.”
All contributions have to stand on their merits.
... “Scotus” (Wellington, N.Z.): The poem was
not completed, as the author married, joined the
Salvationists, and now ill-uses the big drum in a
far away Queensland township. This has been
his longest “bout” of repentance “Mogo
Dumpo ": We see nothing for it but to buy two
copies. We have not seen the last census returos
for London and New York. Some reader may be
able to give the populations "Teuton”: of
course it’s trying to find in a metropolitan jour-
nal's sub-leader such garbage as “Compared with
this wonderful man (Gladstone) the renowned
characters amongst the ancients, and the lead-
ing statesmen among the moderns, are not
many removes from the status of intellectual
dwarfs What is Bismarck when placed side by
side with Gladstone ? And how does Demosthenes
or Gicero show in the comparison?” Nothing
you've said in your letter-parts of it were a bit
strong—can equal our own feelings. You should
remember, though, that the eight-hours’ fete took
place on Monday, when the leaning matter proba-
bly fell to the machine-man....“Gaul’ : It is the
first we've heard of Mr. Service's desire to annex
the South Pole, and, honestly, we don't believe if.
It is probably a mere stupid canard invented by
some would-be-witty busybody. Likely enough,
he desires to include Mounts Erebus and Terror in
his programme. If Victoria could "run” a couple
of ready-made volcanoes, of course, ’twouid be a
great draw. And, if she could turn them into
reformatories, the problem of Collingwood larri
kinism would, probably be solved. But't is the
first we’ve heard of her designs on the Pole
“Wattie”: Possibly “ many who were present at
the meeting will conceive the intention ” of your
par. But you must know, friend, that the paper
J 8 not published exclusively in the interests of
journeymen boot-closers. But peg away—only in
another direction. We have “inserted” your
item in its appropriate column; and now it is to
be hoped that the dustman, who knows as much at
present about it as we do, wili also “conceive
f,-® late J l tion of your vivid communication
Narandera : A and B are butchers. A pole-
axes a beast. B bets it will not weigh 13501 b. It
13701 b. B claims the money, as it didn’t
b - Of course B's claim is the shallowest
founded on the fact that the carcase
Uidn t weigh 13501 b. exactly. He should pay the
or up-ended in the nearest horse-trough.
I K°. : ,l ou ar ? mistaken -utterly-laugh-
ably. We don t care the most infinitesimal portion
ot a microscopic d whether our correspondents
wear gloves or eye-glasses boots or collars. When
a good thing 13 contributed, we do not pause to
inquire whether the writer eats with his knife, or
prefers sausages to sirloin “Amateur”: There
is no royal road to music any more than to geo-
metry-, You must work hard, whatever your
natural advantages are....” Victorian ”: Of course
the papers ridicule Jack Woods’ proposal to train
all adult V ictorian males to arms. But the prin-
ciple is sound all the same, and the rags that now
scoji l it would bo the first to howl atthe supineness
of the Executive if any great danger really threat-
ened. America is quite as democratic as Australia,
yet the V aokees have militia acts, and forced men
to fight during the rebellion, just as the English
would have had to do if Sebastopol had held out a
couple ot years longer... “Constitutionalist”: You
object to the phrase “ all men are born equal.” So
do we, but for a different reason. What the
American rebels 99 and French revolutionists
meant was that men should be equal in the eye of
the law, and possess equal social and political op-
portunities to improve their natural gifts. You
must be aware that in most-possibly all—coun-
tries, no sucn opportunities obtain. To suppose
that all men were born with equal abilities would
be to suppose a George Ilf. equal to a Robert
Burns, or a Prince of Wales to a Darwin-suppo-
sitions too wild even for a Rum leader writer
Amo”: Yes; the voluntary system of teaching
religion in the Victorian State schools has broken
down—not partly, mind you, but wholly, irretriev-
ably. It is now proposed to press the school
teachers into the service-to seduce them into ex-
plaining why no rainbows appeared before Noah,
and how a few millions of people went through a
40 years’ pleasure trip in a country that would not
teed a goat. Nous vcrrons “Springfield, 111.”:
Shall make full enquiry, and endeavour to afford*
you an explicit reply.
INDIA CHIPS IN.
“ Campbell Hospital, Sealdah, Calcutta, March 16,
1884:—Having heard of the healing and curative
powers of ST. JACOBS OIL in cases of sore
throats, pains, &c., and suffering while in this in-
stitution with a sore throat, I obtained the per-
mission of the medical officers, who attended me
for small-pox, to use it, and have much pleasure in
stating that a single application gave me much
relief, and in three days, using the oil twice daily,
I felt rid of the sore throat. I have no hesitation
in recommending the use of the same to ethers,
and feel sure they will find the oil give instan-
taneous relief. I would also here mention that
with the sore throat I had a severe pain in the
.laws, which was removed after only two applica-
tionsot ST. JACOBS OlL.—(Signed) E. A. Pereibi
Hoad Inspector of Post-offices.” *
FURTHER POSITIVE PROOF.
Montague s Fancy Bazaar, 58 Prinoess-street,
Dunedin, 9th May, 1884. Messrs Neill Bros., Dune-
din. Dear Sirs,—l have great pleasure in testify-
ing to the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil in a severe
case of neuralgia in the face. After trying manv
so-called remedies without obtaining relief
nothing did me so much good. After two or three
applications the pain entirely disappeared, and am
glad to state I have had no return of the trouble
since. I cheerfully recommend it to others suffer-
ing from the same painful ailment. I remain
dear sirs, respectively yours, Julia Montague. ’
HE SUFFERED ACUTELY.
Esc i’ th « well-known wholesale
Jeweller and Importer, Dowling-street, Dunedin
writes cheerfully as follows Dowling-street
Dunedin, 2nd May, 1884. Dear Sir, - Being a firm
non-believer In patent or proprietary medicines,
my testimony may be of some value to you. Last,
week I suffered acutely from severe contraction
of the nerves of the neck and shoulder. A friend
laughingly suggested 8t Jacobs Oil, and I invested
in a bottle, rubbing it well in at right before re-
tiring. Ihe feeling of warmth and counter-irrita-
tion I experienced almost immediately was verv
strong. And I am pleased to state that I awoke
next morning with hardly any trace of pain. A
second and less prolonged application cured me
completely. A bad chilblain on my ear was re-
nom«i. W i tb °2? rubbing. You may mention my
name as an authority on St. Jacobs Oil.j r
I remain, dear Sir, faithfully yours.
D. BEN[?]AMY[?].


WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why Is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,,
friends are generous and affectionate ; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
14th January, 1884.
Gentlemen,—Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
I was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, i
used it myself, the result being that I was myseir
in three.or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you are at liberty to make
what use you please of this.
Fours, „
John Kelly.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney.
Marshall Brothers, American Ben lists,
supply Artificial Teeth of first quality at strictly
moderate charges. The practice of painless ueu-
tristry is carried on by the aid of a large 6tocl£
modern apparatus. Teeth painlessly stopper-
Painless extraction by nitrous oxide gas. JJennu
Booms, 104-0 Market-st., near Hyde Park.*
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pxtt-street, Sydney. S*' - Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplied
Haryesting Machinery. Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant, &o. No commission charged for
buying. Agents for the sale or purchase on
commission of Pure-bred Stock,*
Political
Points
It is a cheering sign when we find such a
paper as tho World saying that, in an article in-
tended to be denunciatory of the rough-tonw ued
Radical, Thorold Rogers, “Oxford, the traditional
home of Tory and aristocratic ideas, has latterly
become the nursing mother of the most virulent
school of Democratic levellers and iconoclasts.”
“All modern Democracies,” writes the
London Standard, “lean to Protectionism,more
or less, from the mere fact, perhaps, that their Go-
vernments have to live by pandering to class in-
terests, and Protective tariffs are in favour because
the notion exists that they benefit fhe poor.” Ac-
cording to this, then, wo are in N.S.W. not going
to have a democracy but an Aristocracy (with a
big A, please). We have.madea precious com-
mencement.
The “suppression-editor” seems to be as
common an institution in the great English dailies
as in a Sydney daily we could name. In Lanca-
shire, a regular agitation, amounting to a popular
revolt against payment of tithe-rent, has sorung
up and formed the subject of a question in the
House of Commons. With the view, probably, of
keeping up the idea that true-born Englishmen
are too “respectable” to actively resist the most
flagrant wrongs if by law established, neither the
Times, Standard, Daily News, Daily Chroni-
cle, nor any other capitalist print, made the least
allusion either to the occurence or reported the
question in tne Commons.
The S. M. Herald, and other Conservative
pleaders who wanted the Government to preveut
the free use of the Domunfor popular assem-
blages. should note th‘s fact, reported by an
English paper:—” Once more Conservatives, under
the present distress, arc attempting to seduce ‘ the
working man ’ to their ranks. Private parks for
Conservative pioniesare being everywhere thrown
open both round London and in the country.
These picnics are to be the means of spreading
Tory principles.” Thus, if mass meetings or petty
meetings in the public parks were “regulated”
(i.e. prohibited), only the advocates of ideas which
were favourably regarded by land-owners would
be able to hold political mass meetings at all
The Christian Socialist says:—“lf the
underkept human labour machine be a woman,
she has one resource left—one prerogative of her
sex. She may work at policeman’s great-coats all
day, and, because they are not paid for at living
prices, she can spend the night in endeavouring to
wring the odd shilling or two from the pockets of
the profligate or the drunkard. Wonderful supe-
riority of the human labour-machine I Whoever
heard of a steam-engine, when slack of steam,
hiring itself out for a few hours to the devil, for
the sole sake of making cheap cotton for its first
employer! Yet this is what human labour machines
do, every night, every hour of the night, in this
vast London of ours. Women who might be our
mothers, our sister’, sell themselves to the passers-
by, in order to make cheap clothes for soldiers,
postmen, policemen, and convicts.”
The English Socialist writers sometimes
show how extremes meet. In their crusade
against trading and manufacturing capitalists they
occasionally state almost a prefereHce for heredi-
tary land-owners. Thus one of these writers asks:
—“ How many times, I wonder, has Mr. Bright
dilated on the iniquity of the five hundred Peers
of England holding one-fifth of the land ? His
figures are absolutely wrong and misleading; but
that is a matter of very small consequence. What
I should like to ask him is, if it be wrong for the
Peers to possess land, how he can reconcile the
possession of great amounts of personal property
such as he and his colleague in tho representation
of Birmingham possess ? What is right in one
class can scarcely be wrong in another, and the
smart tradesman who piles up a colot sal fortune
by keeping down the rate of wages is perhaps a
not more estimable member of society than a
wealthy Peer, who is content with a very small
return for his capital, and who expends a large
proportion of his income in improvements.”
The Loudon Echo says it cannot under-
stand the English Government's "cold-blooded
negleot of its own thriving colonies,” coupled, as
it is, with ceaseless opposition to the extension of
the Colonial empire of other nations. “There is
hardly,” remarks the Echo, “a coaling station
that has defences strong enough to protect it from
the attack of a third-rate man-of-war. The Austra-
lians are building a considerable licet, and they ask
to be allowed to fly the British Ensign; but this
request, which would te eagerly responded to if
the people in power were really anxious for a
federation of the Empire, is refused.” The Glad-
stone Government, which entered office pledged
against further annexation, has taken over
part of Borneo, and New Guinea; has warned
off other Powers from ether islands in the
Pacific; has annexed large tracts in West Africa;
has pushed forward the Indian frontier; has sub-
sidised the Ameer, and made itself responsible for
Egypt. It ought not to be expected teat other
nations will acquiesce in English seizure of enor-
mous tracts of fertile land, when England already
claims a fifth of the earth's surface. And yet
there is impotent snurling and growliDg whenever
any oth®r nation picks up a miserable sliceof land,
no matter where situated.
This is the way the Socialists talk in their
organ, Justice:— “On Friday in last week, a grand
Jubilee me ting was held to commemorate the
übolition of slavery in the British dominions. It
was worthy of celebration. But we wish someone
present had pointed out the accursed wage-slavery
which still exists in this country. Tho Prince of
Wales, for instance, delivered a long speech in
honour of the occasion; yet, as we pointed out
last week, the rural wage-slaves on his estate get
about 10s. to 148. a week for 16 hours’ work a day,
or 98 hours’ work a week. The black slaves' work
was regulated by law at 45 hours a WO 'V, and they
were tar better lodged and fed. It didn’t pay a
planter to overwork and starve them; for he had
to buy more. No slavery that ever existe i in lhe
British dominions could be more horrible than the
slavery in tho coal and iron regions which Miss
Taylor and Mr. Hyndman have lately visited on
behalf of the Democratic Federation These men,
women, and children arc ground to the very earth
under capitalist tyranny. Women working in the
nail trade cannot earn enough to keep them in
health by twelve hours’ exhausting toil each day.
or 72 hours a week. So it is all round. Whenshali
we be able to celebrate the downfall of white
slavery? Within the next ten years, if Socialists
make way at the rate we are doing to-day.”
Here are a couple of paragraphs from an
appeal to the people of England just issued by the
Scotch Crofters The Highland Crofters are poor
peasants, cultivating small plots of land in the
north of Scotland and in the islands thereabouts.
Many of us are threatened with eviction because
we cannot pay our rents in full. We cannot pay
as we have been rack-rented for generations, and
thus prevented from accumulating savings and
capital. We have also been gradually deprived of
the use of peat and turf for fuel; heather, rushes,
ferns, and stone for building purposes and for
repairs of our huts; seaweeds for manure; and
grazing for our beasts. All these we Crofters had
ooked on from time immemorial as our rights for
enjoyment in common. No one interfered with
us in the old days, but, s land became more valu-
able the landlords laid claim to all these things;
our fathers were too shamefaced to go to court;
and where could paupers, like us Crofters, get
money to defend our rights ? And without money
who can get justice ? Had not all our money
already gone to the landlords ? So, in the eyes of
man and under his laws, we lost our rights. But
in the eyes of God we have them still. Besides tho
sufferings we have already told you of, we suffer
greatly, as we have been driven from our fertile
lands and made to settle on barren soils, as rich
farmers wanted the good soils and the sheltered
sites for their south country sheep. There are
very few of u? Crofters left, so we ask you, our
brothers in England and in the south of Scotland,
to save us alive, ths remnant of an ancient race,
and to look on our cause as yours.”
An observant working man visited Sand-
ringham, the estate of the Prince of Wales, the
other day. He has communicated his observations
to Justice, in the following terms:—“The Prince
I found has the reputation of being a go-a-head
land-owner (the estate was purchased for him on
his coming of age, at the cost of £220,000 to the
nation). There is not the least doubt the estate
has been marvellously ‘improved ’—from the land-
lord point of view. On every side, as you ap-
proach Sandringham, you drive along well mad#
roads, bordered on each side to a depth of 20 or 30
yards with plantations of fir trees, and as you go
along you sec the whole place, roadside, copses
and fields, alive with game of all sorts. Royal
cock pheasants, indignant at being disturbed by
aught le3s than a Royal shooting party, rise ma-
jestically at your feet, while partridges, hares,
raboits and other game scuttle away in hundreds.
But though the estate has been so much improved
that there is probably more game on it than on
any other in the three kingdoms, yet you may
walk for miles without coming across a cottage.
The labourers have been ‘improved’ off the es-
tate altogether. Here and there you do come
across a charming cottage, creeper covered, and
NECESSITY HAS NO LAW
PARTY WITH INQUIRING MIND: “HULLO! I SAT, HOW IS IT YOU’VE RAISED THE
PRICE OF COAL LATELY?”
HONORABLE GENTLEMAN (in the coal trade): “WELL, THE PUBLIC’S GETTING THAT
DIRTY PARTICULAR ABOUT THEIR WEIGHTS THAT I HAD TO DO SOMETHING.”
you fancy you have found the ideal dwelling of a
labourer in Aroady, for it is surrounded witn vege-
tables and flowers, and in a field behind you see
100 to 150 hencoops. But on enquiry it turns out
that the cottages are inhabited by the Prince’s
rural police in the shape of gamekeepers, while
the henooops are tenanted by pheasants which are
being brought up by hand to afford presently what
is humorously termed ‘ sport ’ for Royal guns. All
the labourers who work on the estate have to walk
four or five miles to and from their work, which
necessitates starting at 4 a.m. and returning at 8
p.m., a fair day’s work I The Prince considers the
fair wage to be 10s. to 14s. a week 1 If the labourers
lived on the estate they might disturb the game,
to which the land is given up. There is reserved,
however, some 20 acres of kitchen-gardens and
hot-houses with numerous walls, built especially
for growing peaches and apricots. But our Prince
has a comprehensive mind; not only does he love
game and grapes and peaches, but he likes to have
foxes for hunting in the neighbourhood. But
foxes eat game, so they have to be preserved by
the farmers at the expense of their fowls and
geese; and between foxes and game, nice inroads
are made on their produce.”
With that disingenuousness in the matter
of wresting a quotation from its context for which
the S.M. Herald is noted, a recent ‘‘leader” in
that Conservative organ absolutely bristles. It
was a leader on the land nationalisation question,
“the opinions expressed by Mr. W. S. Blunt on
his recent visit to India” being drawn upon to
illustrate the Herald's favourite position that
State landlordism must necessarily be a mockery,
a delusion, and a snare. Now, Blunt’s opinions (by
the bye, the before-mentioned leader gave
the information that these opinions were to be
found in Blunt’s ‘ ‘ldeas About India” in the August
nnmber of the Fortnightly) do not make so much
against Btate landlordism as against bad State
landlordism. The Herald didn’t quote quite
enough of his opinions for truth's sake, though
sufficient for her purpose. For instance, it would
have jarred on her conservatism to have quoted
Blunt’s blunt opinions that it is the British Go-
vernment in India which is ruining that country,
crippling it with debt, .and grinding down tbe
masses into a state of misery and bondage as bad
and hopeless as that of the Egyptian fellah. Here
are one or two of Blunt’s remarks on those points:
—“ The modus operandi (of working the Forest
Laws) seems to have been needless, violent, and
most injurious to the people. . . . The salt-tax
is tho one groat theme of complaint, the one that
touches the people most nearly, and is most inju-
rious in proportion to the poverty of the sufferers
by it. . . Che peasantry is deeply, hopelessly in
debt. It is curious to find this prime cause of the
Egyptian Revolution faithfully reproduced in India
under our own paternal and enlightened rule. . . .
There is surely no country in the world where in
the midst of such starvation there is so much
waste; certainly none where the expense of it all
i 8 borne so wholly and directly by the poor. I
wonder whether anyone has calculated the
number of miles of macadamised road in the
various Anglo-Indian cantonments, not a yard of
which has ever served any purpose beyond that of
enabling the officers' wives to pay each other visits in
their carriages. I wonder whether anyone has
calculated the numbers of absolutely useless
clock towers and Gothio memorials erected by Sir
Richard Temples to Sir Bartle Freres, and Bir
Bartle Freres to Sir Richard Temples in the various
Presidencies. I wonder whether anyone has cal-
culated how many hogsheads of champagne the
water-drinking ryot has paid for in tho last half
century as an unaccounted item of his yearly
budget The Government oi India, as
landlord, does praotically nothing for the land. All
is squandered and spent on other things; and the
people who till the soil are yearly becoming poorer
and more hopeless.” Between State landlordism,
where the State is an alien bureaucracy living in
splendour at the expense of oonquered masses,
and State landlordism, where the State is a demo-
cracy, there may, peradventure, be some slight
difference, dear Granny; but Blunt’s opinions
simply tell against the accursedness of State land-
lordism where the State is a tyrannical and
“ foreign ’ oligarchy.
His Grace the Duke of Westminster re-
cently sent round a touting circular for subscrip-
tions in aid of the funds of the Sunday Society,
which is in need of £lOOO. On the preceding Satur-
day the papers announced that the Duke had paid
1600 guineas for a raoehorse Under the anti-
Socialistic law the Berlin police have forbidden the
sale of the portraits of the late Socialist agitator,
Lassalle, the proceeds of which were intended to
be used in carrying on the propaganda during the
approaching elections. ...It seems that at last the
labourers in Ireland are beginning to discover that
whatever the Irish Land Act may have done for
the farmers, it has not in any way bettered their
condition. A Land League meeting at Ohabullayne,
on a Sunday, was disturbed by the labourers, who
afterwards held a counter demonstration, at which
resolutions were passed against the farmers
Tne London hospitals are all in financial straits,
owing to the falling off in voluntary contribu-
tions, while the luxury and extravagance of the
monied classes is becoming more monstrous every
ytar. In London last year, TJnivers ty Hospital
closed its aocounts with a debt of £B5OO, while for
two years or more King’s College Hospital has
been existing solely on its capital, and these are
only examples of many other similar cases
Lord Rosebery is above all things a Democrat, he
loves the people so. Thus, when he unveiled the
statue of Burns, the people’s poet, he was careful
they should be kept at a safe distance by tickets...
The probabilities of the unlucky fallabeeu of
Egypt getting any relief from the blood' sucking
policy of squeezing them for the benefit of
usurious bondholders, may be estimated by con-
sidering that Lord Northbrook, who has been sent
by the Government as special commissioner to
report on the condition of Egypt and advise as to
its future treatment, is connected with the financ-
ing firm of Baring. A London paper, commenting
on Lord Northbrook’s mission, remarks with truth
that‘‘the bombardment of Alexandria, and sub-
sequent massacres of Tel-el-Kebir, Tamanieb, and
others, were preceded by just such professions
of solloltude for the welfare of the people
of Egypt as now flow in profusion from
the lips of the Prime Minister and others.”....
Agrarian discontent is active in Scotland. In one
night lately three agrarian tires took place, one at
Arbirlot, near Arbroath; another at Ballochallan,
in Perthshire, and the third near Falkirk. Now a
large robbery of dynamite is reported as having
taken place from mining works in Lanarkshire.
Ihe police have been unable to discover the per-
petrators, and there is great fear some outrage
pay he in contemplation.. .To add to the popu-
larity of landlordism in the Scottish islands, the
police of Lewes, under a Sheriff’s officer, one John
Fraser, arrested two poor women one night last
week while in their bed?. Their offence was re-
sisting the police while attempting to pull down a
spall house erected by Roderick Graham, the son
ot the elder woman, which he had put up without,
it was alleged, the consent of the estate manager.
The old woman, seventu years of age, was sent to
prison for eight davs; the younger was cautioned...
Lord Cranborne, eldest son of the Marquis of Salis-
“as been accepted as Conservative candidate
for King’s Lynn at the next election. This youDg
gentleman, aged 23, but a few weeks earlier
had taken a third class in history at Oxford. Just
escaped ‘plucking.” ...Michael Davitt at several
meetings in Ireland has been urgiDg the Irish to
It n ® D *fhBh Democracy in their attack on the
House of Lords. They may then trust, he says,
the English people to aid them in putting down
the infamous Castle rule.
“One of the Loard’s Anointed” is the
Rev. J. A. Nicol, a Free (painfully free) Church
minister of the Presbyterian stamp, who has been
i banging round Satan on the fruitful plains of the
Wimmera (V ic.) for several years past. It appears
that the stock of this particular style of parson in
Victoria is limited to live; and, if we may judge
them by their fruits, the stock would bear reduc-
ing by about the same number without hurting
the morals of the Cabbage Garden tillers. The
Kev. Nicol undertook to preach the glad tidings in
the far north-west, his hunting-grounds reaching
from Rupanyupto Warracknabeal, even unto the
border of the Mailee scrub; and his ministrations
would have been productive of great good among
the simple wheat-growers in that region had “ his
brethren in the Loard” not persecuted him, and
formed vile conspiracies to ruin him. At least, so
the Kev. Nicol says, and he ought to know. But
in an evil hour one of the sanctified quintette of
parsons became the editor of a religious sheet
called the Presbyter, and with that charity
which “covereth a multitude of sins” he be-
g&n to point out some of the shortcomings
of bis brother in the Loard shortcomings,
in fact, of a decidedly giddy nature. Then this
pious pair commenced slangwhanging each other,
the one in the Presbyter and tbe other in the
Ijunmunkle Standard, until the fun culminated
in the County Court, Melbourne, where the Rev.
A. Paul, the editor of the Presbyter, sued the
Rev. Nicol for £99 damages for libel. The libel
consisted of a couple of letters written to the rev.
editor by meonister Nicol, in which the latter
cheerfully remarked that he would ‘‘stop the
mouth of liars ’’—referring, of course, to the men-
dacity of brother Paul in particular—and also in
sending post-cards to the pious scribe which were
the reverse of complimentary. Parson Nicol
pleaded justification, relying on the articles pub-
lished in the Presbyter; and evidence was taken
which enabled the unregenerate to have a peep
behind the veil of sanctity and get a glimpse of
the doings of the “ unco guid.” The weak point of
tbe Bev. Nicol—if weak point it be—was his par-
tiality for ladies’ society, a weakness thus referred
to by one of Erin’s greatest bards—
“ And if I be fond of the girls,
Sure that’s no bad sign of a man.”
It was alleged, indeed, that when returning from
church the reverend and amorous Nicol would
squeeze himself into an already over-crowded
buggy, and then sandwich himself betwf en two
of the nicest of his female parishioners, with the
laudable desire of keeping them warm; but that
was explained away by another of the quintette,
who said, “ I can understand, in the country, that
people going home from church will very often
crowd into vehicles, and it will happen that, if the
vehicle be the clergyman’s, he may pack in more
than ho should.” Certainly, and why shouldn’t
he ? Now, when we used to drive to church
[Enough of that. We want facts —Ed. B.] And
then, again, the Rev. Nicol was aooused of taking
more than a fatherly interest in someO f the matrons
of his flock. It was broadly asserteu that on one
occasion he called on a certain lady residing near
Rupanyup, during the temporary absence of her
lord, when his endearments had such an amatory
tendency that the lady was charitable enough to
impute his vagaries to affection of the brain.
However, she repulsed his delicate attentions,
whereupon he knelt down and prayed, and after-
wards proceeded to read a chapter from the Bible
for her edification. Then, in the innocence of her
heart, she thought that “ when he took God’s boon
out of his pocket that all the evil was over, if
evil he meant.” But this gay parson was not
to be put off so easily, and again, according to
ovidence, he repeater his giddy conduct, but with
no better success. Then finding his little game
was up. he said, “ I hope I have not offended you,”
and afterwards went whining to her irate hus-
band, to apologise for his carryings-on. Of course,
we cannot give the grimy details of the case-they
are only fit for papers of the Nooze pattern—but
sufficient is given to show what a distance separ-
ates these followe rs of the Loard from their pre-
tended Master. The case laßted some three days,
and the intelligent jury brought in a verdict for
the plaintiff, awarding him one farthing damages—
not by any means a princely sum, but perhaps,
after all, a fair estimate of tbe value of the char-
acter of a Free Church Presbyterian meenister,
judging by the evidence adduced. The Rev. Paul
can now wear his worth on his watch-guard. The
Rev. Nicol still preaches the Gospel. Hallelujah!


During the Spring
THE misery, shame, and suffering, often be-
queathed as a sole legacy to children by
parents, is neglected Scrofula. To cleanse the
blood of this hereditary poison at this season, and
thus remove the most prolific cause of human suf-
fering to clear the Skin of Disfiguring Humors,
Itching Tortures, Humiliating Eruptions, and
Loathsome Sores caused by it, to purify and beau-
tify the Skin, and restore the Hair so that no trace
of the disease remain, Cuticuka Resolvent, the
new Blood Purifier, and Cuticura and Cuticuka
Soap, the great Skin Cures and Beautiflers, are in-
fallible. The spring is the time to take them.
“ A FTER THREE MONTHB’ use of CUTICURA
and twelve years of as constant
suffering from Humor of the face, neck and scalp
as was ever endured, I can say that I am cured,
and pronounce my case the most remarkable on
ecord. I have been so elated with my success, that
I have stopped men on the street who were afflicted
and told them to get the Cuticura Remedies
and they would cure them. This is why lam so
grateful to you, for I believe them to be the best
and greatest discovery of the age, and that they will
cure all who are suffering with these diseases.”
Hon. WM. TAYLOR, BOSTON.
Cleanse the Blood
I HAVE USED your Cuticuba remedies iasev-
eral cases of Eczema, Moist and Dry Tetter,
and cured them all. Your Cuticuba Resolvent, so
far as my supply allows me to test it, has, in my
hands, exceeded in efficacy and efficiency and alte-
rative compound (blood purifier) I have ever made
use of in an active practice of 30 years’ duration.
E. N. ECKER, M.D.
JACKSONVILLE, PA.
HE. CARPENTER, Esq., Henderson, N. Y.
• cured of Psoriasis or Leprosy of twenty
years’ standing by the Cttticura Resolvent
(blood purifier) internally, and CuTictJßAand Cuti-
cuua Soap (the great skin cures) externally. The
most wonderful case on record. Cure certified to
before a justice of the Peace and prominent citi-
zens. All afflicted with itching and scaly diseases
should send to us for this testimonial in full.
Clear die Skin
AS A SPRING MEDICINE, Blood Purifier,
Diuretic and Aperient, no other so-called
blood purifier or sarsaparilla compound is for a
moment to be compared with the Cuticura Re-
solvent. It combines four great properties in
one medicine, acting at once upon the digestive
organs, blood, kidneys, and bowels.
FRED ROHRER, Esq., Cashier Stock-Growers
National Bank, Pueblo, Colorado, writes: “I
am so well pleased with its effects on my baby that
I cannot afford to be without it in my house. It is
a wonderful cure, and it is bound to become very
popular as soon as its virtues are known to the
masses.”
CUTICURA REMEDIES
CUTICURA RESOLVENT, the New Blood Puri-
fier, Diuretic and Aperient, cleanses the Blood
and Perspiration of all Impurities and Poisonous
Elements, and thus removes the CAUSE.
CUTICURA, the Great Skin Cure (a Medicinal
Jelly for external use), instantly allays Itching and
Inflammation, clears the Skin and Scalp of Humors,
Sores, and Dandruff, destroys Dead Skin and Flesh,
heals Ulcers, Sores, and Discharging Wounds, re-
stores the Hair, and beautifies the Skin.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTICCJRA SOAP, an exquisite Skin Beautifler
and Toilet Requisite, prepared from Cutiottba,
is indispensable in treating Skin Diseases, Baby
Humors, Skin Blemishes, Prickly Heat, Rashes,
Sunburn, and Rough, Chapped, or G-eaay Skin.
CUTICURA REMEDIES are absolutely pure, and
the only real Blood Purifiers and Skin Beautiflers
free from mercury, arsenic, lead, zinc, or any other
mineral or vegetable poison whatsoever.
Price, Cuticura, 50 cents; Soap, 25 cents ; Re-
solvent, $l.OO, Prepared by
Potter Drug & Chemical Co., Boston, U.S.A.
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
w.
PALING
ia*
AND CO. (Limited).
tfa I
The Largest, Most Complete, and Best Selected
Stock of Pianos in Australia.
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash ; or Easy Terms.
ALL THE LATEST MUSIC IN STOCK.
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK O NEW 80UTH WALES.
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Loading and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &c.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Dinners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations.
~ The DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gentlemen, are the finest in
the city. First-class Menu daily. Rooms for Dinner-parties upstairs.
FBIVATI BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in the Bar until 11 p.m.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney,
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Silver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOs. each,
Warranted for three years,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Piit-st, Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER
GOOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 Gteorge-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
SINGER & CO.
W. J. PATERSON,
Representative for N.S.W.,
85 MARKET STREET.
Largest Stook in Sydney. Repairs by Coventry
Workmen. Call and inspect, or write for lists.
SENT POST FREE FOR la. STAMPS.
SOCIAL SCIENCE,
A TREATISE on all Nervous Disorders, Chronic
Disease, Impediments t® Marriage, &e. How
to choose a partner for life, so as to live happy;
How to regain and preserve your health, &c.
Address—R. T. SELBY, M.H., Devonshire-street,
Surry Hills, Sydney.
BICYCLES, TRICYCLES.
FIRST-CLASS, LATEST,
BEST MAKES and STYLES
BALL BEARINGS AND PEDALS.
PRICES UNDER ENGLISH COST.
INSPECTION INVITED. AT
229 CLARENCE STREET.
WRIGHT, HEATON&GO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES*
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southirk District, N.S.W.:
Goulburn
Voaa
Bowningr
Binalong
Harden
Young-
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Rook
Culeaira
Cowabee
Narander
Hulong
Carratnooi
Hay
WisTiRR District, N.8.W.:
Capertee
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertlre
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblln
Nymagre*
Co bar
Coonamble
ISourke
North*aw Dhtriot, N.S.W,
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabri
Walgett
tirewarrina
Tamworth
TTraila
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Western Lines
Brisbane
Boma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
Rockhampton
Bogantungan
Emerald
CSHTRAXi Lin* ;
Oapella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville Kavenswooa Junction
Charters Towers
Agent* in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCH * CO., LIMITED.
Agendas in all part* of the world.
Foster s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS'S EXTRA STOUT.
BASS PALE AT, S'.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market,
BOLD BY AH jJgMKBBPEBS AND WIKBJ
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
M. A. BROWN & GO.,
PROFESSI ORAL HAIRDRESSERS
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
Vj
DC
MAR
OAR’S HEAD BTOTJT.—ThifI favourite brand
r of Stout selected with great care from the
t of the brewings of the celebrated flrnr of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
wurnot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
OATTHLL A CO.. Sole Agents.


Don’t Die in the House.— " Eough on Kata,”
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
flies ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses Moss & Co., Sydney Agents.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
•• If you are suffering from poor healtb
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘ take eheor, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
4 duties, or a Mother worn out with care
* and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
* your avery-day duties, or a man of let-
‘ ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering- from Over eating
'ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
‘ ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and yeur blood thin
‘ and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘ unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for siek-
‘ room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘ the mouth, and cleansing the stomach/’
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
Is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening tne mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeakNervousMen
Whose debility, exhausted
powers, premature decay
end failure to perform life’s
duties properly are caused by
excesses, errors of youth, etc.,
will find a perfect and lasting
restoration to robust health
and vigorous manhood in
THEMARSTON BOLUS.
.Neither stomach drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nerroua Debility and
_ .. Dhysloal Decay isumfonnly
successful because based on perfect diagnosis,
new and direct methods and absolute thor-
oughness. hull information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDYCO., 52Castlereagh St., Sydney
SWEEP-
\°
HIL L E S
MELBOURNE CUP.
35,000 Members, at 10s.
First
Second
Third
Starters and Non-Starters (divide)
35 Cash Prizes, £lOO each
£5OOO
3000
1000
3000
3500
Address: Montgomery, and Co., Chancery Lane,
Melbourne.
mmemmi
iKSSKNCEo^LIFEI
am only infallible remedy for
//er/oi/sJjebiLijyT
THIS invaluable and acknowledged Medieine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system; regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most saored obliga-
tions. In cases at 135., or four quantities is one tor
365. : if by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
0T" TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will b© faithfullv
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery Just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. ObboAnb ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
DR. scorn ELECTRIC HAIR BRUSHES,
Made of Pure Bristles, not Hires, Elegantly
Carved, and Unbreakable.
Each Hair Brush has the same elegant
sign, and contains, the same electro*
magnetic power, the difference being
inly in the size. Each fa handsomely boxed
accompanied by a silver-plated compass,
by which its power can always be tested.
They have •won their way to royal favor
in England, being cordially indorsed
by the Prince and'Princess of Wales,
used by tbe'.King of Holland and
Prince Bismark, and written upon
by the lit. Hon.W. Gladstone, and
are nowbrought tothe notice of the
Australian public. They cure
by naturalmcans-will always do
good, never harm, and are a
remedy-lasting for many years
They should be ÜBed daily in
place ;ot the ordinary hair
From
Rev. Dr. Bridgeman,
Brooklyn.
Gentlemen, I have
never before given a tes-
timonial,but am willing
to eneourage the use of
an honest remedy. I
am so pleasedwith your
i hair brush that I deem
i it my duty to write you
recommending it most
cordially. My hair,
about a year since,
commenced falling
out, and I was rapid-
ly becoming bald ;
but, since using the
brush, a thick growth
of hair has made its
appearance, quite
equal to that which I
had previous to its
falling out. I have
tried other remedies
but without success.
After this remarkable
result 1 purchased one
for my wife, who has
been a great sufferer
from headache, and she
finds it a prompt and
infallible remedy.
A. C. Bkidqf.man, D.D.
y
From
The Mayor
of Saratoga.
It always cures
nay headache with
in a few minutes.
A beautiful hair
brush, well worth the
price, aside from Its
curative qualities.
J. R. CHAPMAN.
From the
Venerable President of the
N. Y. Life Ins. Co.
I suffered every morning for years from head-
aches ; your brush relieves them at once. I heartily recom-
mend it. MORRIS FRANKLIN.
From the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Wife suffered for years from headaches; your brush cured them at _
once ; it has also cured several friends. I use it to remove dandruff l
it works like a charm. My wife was getting bald ; it stopped the fall-
ing hair, and made a now growth.
GEO. THORNBURG, Little Rook, Ark.
5 2>
I
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
Nervous Headache in 5 minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes J!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Palling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp!
Promptly Arrests Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grew long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Brain.
CURE
A BEAUTIFUL BRUSH l LASTING FOR YEARS I
Money Returned if not as Represented.
We will send either size of these celebrated Brushes, post paid, to any part
of N. 8. W. or Queensland on receipt of price named, with Is, added, Re>
mittance can be made in Cheques, Drafts, Post Office Orders, Stamps, or
Currency, and if an extra four-pence is enclosed, we will guarantee safe de,
livery by registered post. Or request your nearest Chemist or Fancy Store*
to obtain one for you, and see that Dr. Scott’s name is on the Box.
Dali fljall Electric Association
54 MARGARET ST., SYDNEY.
P, 0-BOX 221,
Cheques can he Crossed .Union Bank of Australia.
Send for Circular of Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh Brushes, Corsets, <Se Belts for Ladies Gentlemen
Mo. 1 Hair Brush, Gs. 03.
Mo. 2 Hair Brush, 7s. 33,
Mo. 3 Hair Brush, Ss. 63.
Mo. 4 Hair Brush, 11s. 63.
Mo, 5 Bair Brush, 13s. 63.
SOLE IMPORTERS QF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
m,
80LE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTON & BRUCE
197 PITT STREET
YANKEE DOODLE
5®
'*-SON & SO^ 5
VSV ONE v ~ 1
a
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
4 ■—*
COhque rOR „
— -T ° c °-- ■
YOX POPULT ! ! ! This mighty rrwrr has built the PiyFON’P great Tobacco Factory. How? ’ b ®
voice of the people declaring ihc YA N KbP TOO!)] P ( Oh QI PPOB Tobrocos their owe.
demanded the supply Dixfcn ai d Fens re e per dec aid hence a Ted rcco factory ha virg r o < qua*
thet-outhern Hemisphere. and coreumirg the bulk of ai) the imported American leaf Tobacco.
MENZIES’ HOTEL,
in the finest position in Melbourne.
Established upwards of 30 years.
Receipts exceed £20,000 per annum.
H. BYRON MOORE, & McLEOD
Exchange, Melbourne.
MURRUMBURRAH TO YOUNG RAILWAY
CONTRACT.
WANTED strong HORSE-TEAMS, for haul-
ing sleepers, on the above contract, bong
Job, and highest wages. Apply on the works to
O’ROURKE & M’SHARRY,
Contractors.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Hymn to Humbug.
VERSE? UNTO VICE.
PROFESSORS OF LITERATURE AND THEIR
LITERATURE.
Sladen has gone; but yet we can endure
His loss, and that of all his literatLre,
If he will but renounce in other climes
The name he borrowed here to sell his rhymes;
And publish wide through England's orowded
Bpace
That New South Wales was not his native place.
’Twas bad enough when, week by week, he
showed
Stupendous ignorance, by song or ode:
Each song a slice of metric-sausage-meat,
Made up of lines of ever-varying feet,
Contained each metre Byron ever used,
Together jumbled up in style confused.
His lofty spirit scorned with high disdain
The measured cadences of Miiton’s strain;
His wholesale genius in its mighty scope
Woorning the style of Goldsmith, Gray, or Pope,
Whose verse unvaried to one measure chained,
From llrst to last the same true ring maintained,
With bolder effort strove to intersperse
All kinds of metre in the self-same verse;
And, failing to invoke sweet concord's aid,
A string of discords in each line displayed,
While here and there a seasoning was thrown
Of ghastly rhyme, peculiarly his own.
Yes, truly, this, per se, was bad enough:
That he should write and Alfred print such stuif.
Vile as it was, perhaps we might excuse
His verse, had it but praised the Evening News
Or eulogised the weekly Bennett’s page,
And hailed its Alf. as wonder of the age—
Extolled its scribes, those foes to “counter
lunch,”
And howled an elegy for Sydney Punch.
For, had he sung of these, we then should deem
The bard well suited to his chosen theme,
And gladly note that by the Muse's aid
Union of kindred spirits had been made.
But, not attempting subjects such as these,
He needs must write on ev’ry place he sees;
With limping line describe the frantic joy
Which filled his soul when he reviewed Fitzroy;
Tell what he felt of rapture and amaze
When Govett’s Leap first met his wondering
- gaze;
And with but poor results invoke the Muse
To tell of Rose Hill’s oak-fringed avenues.
Thus, like the snail which leaves its track of
slime,
Whate’er he saw he marked with nauseous
rhyme;
Bestowed some metric struggle on eaeh scene
And threw iambics at each dark ravine
(The name iambics won’t describe them quite,
But it was thus, I'm told, he meant to writely
And with success he laboured to defile
Each mountain peak with verses worse than vilel
That made us squirm; but still the heavier blow
Was dealt by him when he essayed to show
That under far antipodean skies
A Southern sun could bid a Byron rise.
Two crafty libels thus assailed our fame—
The flrat, that New South Wales esteemed his
name;
The seoondr-and this merits deeper scorn—
That ip thlaland the Bard was bred and born.
High Heaven forbid—the thought is clothed with
That men should think we love such poets herel
What streams of drivel then would flood the
town
From those who burn to win a like renown I
What reams of ravings then each English mail
Would bring consigned to Bennett or to Traill!
And grammar’s laws be slaughtered week by
In praise of Pinchgut, Ryde, or Tarban Creek I
Thrice Happy Sydney I to her shores to lure
Such mighty master of her Literature.
What shoals of Hallorans and Wyldes should
rise
When Alma Mater such a guide supplies;
So deeply skilled in all the arts of speech.
And so well fitted laws of verse to teach 1
A king of Grammar heedlessly bo rode
Rough-shod o’er all the rules of Murray’s code.
Some Latin bard or someone somewhere sings,
“ Kings rule their subjects, Jove rules even
kings;”
So here, though Syntax binds the meaner orew,
Great Sladen’s genius governs Syntax, too.
Revolting verse, and more rebellious prose,
His rule o’er laws of language plainly shows.
Tt may be asked, “ If he did thus disgrace
The poet’s name, what paper gave him space ?
What Editor would willingly allot
The smallest space to such internal rot ?
Should any wish to “ know the reason why,”
The truthful rhyme can furnish this reply:
Some editors, alas! but seek to know
Whether the Bard requires a quid pro quo.
If he expect his song to yield him cash
At once, ’tis seen his verse is vilest trash;
If he do not, why, then, ’tis understood
That his productions must, of course, be good;
No matter what the theme or strain may be,
’Tis worth inserting if he claim no fee.
Out in the suburbs, one may often note
Some filthy pond, where dogs distended float,
While on a board such words as these appear:
“ All sorts of rubbish may be thrown in here
Just so these editors
(Six lines excised by order. We see no parallel,
and cannot allow insulting comparisons of muck-
holes and our contemporaries to be made. We
mean, of course, insulting to our contemporaries.
—Ed. 8.l
But if an editor should chance to say,
“ For all I took of his he got his pay,”
Deep condemnation follows the excuse,
Which proves one lunatic, at least, let loose.
Hoi A-big-gail, raise up your voice again.
Nor cease till he’s secured with triple chain;
But lately you were mad with rage to see
One man immured yfho safely might be free;
But here a nobler theme your speech may find—
A man let loose wh >m waistcoat straight should
bind.
If you have blown before, let hurricane
Of Eloquence now sweep the human plain;
■Give him no “ Local < >ption note his crime—
’Tis self-confessed: “ I purchased Sladen's rhyme.”
ISHMAEL.


THE
IGNO
3?1&xi.0-i«K
i«K
rWKSS?wS^i»
m
sg®
m
- *\
r
FAMOUS
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the public as the Mignon has done since
Its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival ua-blazoniDg forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting 1 to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking public will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Piano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Victoria and New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its nafte is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
lor its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
ieguaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, because the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadlon very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for first-class work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
MOULTON’S
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured by MOULTON'S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and
we can prove what we say. There are no failures and nc
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
&1I BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relieve distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Best Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit).
They are as nearly perfect as it 13 possible for a Pill to be.
Hold Everywhere, l*rice In. ltd.
C. E. MOULTON, Pole Proprietor.
PILLS
Marshalls
TONIC NERVINE
REGL-'TRHRD.
4 SAFE. CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vnnMnd General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of nerve force, as Neuralgia.
Tooth ujhe. Nervousness. Indigestion, Loss of
*nn-fite. Female Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By its tonic
and soothing effect* n at once removes all craving
for Aloohol. By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising elements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system, 4s. 6d.. or 365. a case.
Bole Proprietors, MARSH ALI BROTHERS, M.F.B.
Manufacturing and consulting Chemists, lOi and
10* Market-street, near Hvde Park. Sydney, and
6 Pitt-strcet, Circular-quay. TAKE NO BTTBBTT-
MJTB
Rev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Rev. Z. I*. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. rAth St., Xew York, May 10, 1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter 1 was troubled with a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, which itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that 1 could scarcely bear any clothing
over them, I was also a sail rer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; tny
appetite was poor, and my system a good
deal run down. Knowing the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other cases, and from personal use
iu former years, I began taking it for the
above-named disorders. l\ly appetite im-
proved almost from tbe lirst dose. After
a short time the fever and itching were
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
were also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is now excellent. 1 feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, which
1 recommend with all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than two bottles. 1 place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, 2.. P. Wilds."
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coining to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
weakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
bowels, aDd thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
prepared by
Dr.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price §l, six bottles
for $5.
AYER'S
CATHARTIC
PILLS. '
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
OWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strenghtenB, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &c.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pro-
duces immediately a perfect change iu red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a g’..ssy and per-
manent brown or black, whick colour neither
washing nor perspiration will remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros. E
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
T. L. Smith's Latest NTove.
OPENING NEW PREMISES, at
418 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the present establishment, 099 Geoi'ge-st.
CLEARANCE SALE of BOOKS, STATIONERY,
PICTURES, FANCY GOODS, CARDS FOR
ALL SEASONS, EIC.
Surprising Reduction of 4s. in to expedite
removal of his enormous stock.
The Pale now progressing is a gratifying
success.
T. L. SMITH, 399 George-st.,
Exactly opposite the Royal Hotel.
s
BOOT
e
EQUALLED
c " SYDNEY
EITHER FOR
PRICE or QUALITYI
404
CEORCE SI
cQLI/f
BLEND
JMAR&
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.—This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
uming- fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Bole
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
(ST 308 GEORGE STREET.
*£L£BR ATO*
6^
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
80LEAGENT
for
BROOMFIELD 8
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
BCHNAPPB.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
BULTAN'S COFFEE,
J. TURNER ROBINSON & CO.’S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKET CLOTH HALL,
478 George-street,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLEN'S
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
jagr* Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, well made, well shrunk, and a perfect fit
guatantecd.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
New south wales.-monster consul
TATION on Hawkesbury Handicap, Metro-
politan Stakes, and Melbourne Cup, 1884. Capital.
£5OOO, in 10.C00 shares at 10s. each. About 325
prizes—£2soo for horses, and £2500 prize gifts.
Plan of Distribution First horse, winner in
each event, £1000; second horse, £500; third horse,
£250: starters, £250; non-starters £5OO-£2500.
Fi st prize gift. £600; second prize gift, £300; third
pri-e gift, £150; 10 at £5O. £500; 10 at £25, £250;
& at £2O, £4OO ; 20 at £lO, £2OO ; 20 at £5, £lOO-
-
Application by letter only, addressed W. Burn-
hard, 110 Elizabeth-street; or Box 832, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Cheques payable to W. Burnhard or
bearer ; if cash, to register letters.
P.B.—Please state for which event. Prospectus
by application.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOE PRESENTATION PLATE.
8
Q
r
03
O
</>
pu
U->
'•6
fi
w*
W o
s
*
B
o
\
ar<> 2
Q.
&
fir
r
©
X
r«0
rz:
%
(0
\nr
©
3T
SL
CRESTS, COATS OE ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
Tib.© lESeliafble S-u.grg'ies!
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE & MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OP CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Merchant & Importer,
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLE
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES. ETC.
FHCTO GRAPHIC
STOCK
JMPCRTtRS
v
%
M
%
- Yj
Ut
d \
s
imhiij:
V
a Ss
r 'aU. ■ ° T ooU
Dto
CAMERAS
For
C ARDS,CH EMI CALS,
W.JOHNSON &.SONS ~~]]>AP£R~l
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD?^


PEARL CEMENT,
The Greatest American Prize-winning Discovery .of the
19th century. j.;
ABTICLE3 MENDED CANNOT BE SEPABATED. '
AMERICAN S871LI! CO., 203 Pitt Si. (Oil;) Sydney,
A M E R I CAN
NOV ELTY C® ON LY
I HAVETRItDftLL
,4 KINDS JO HNBUT
ISTHEBESt(k£
w
Ef 6 '?^
SAVE THE PIECES f
Use Pearl Cement,, the
greatest American
Discovery of the 19th
century—never known
to fail—for mending
China, Crockery,Glass,
Wood, Ivory, Leather,
&c. Price Is. per bot-
tle. Sold everywhere.
Send to the Amf c»
Novelty Co., 203 Pitt St,
Sydney, for whatever
you may remure
whether the article tf
in tlieCatalogue or no.
They deal in nearly
everything.
Toothache Tiast«e,£®
best remedy knowni
PSVwSIi”-"
272-paged Catalogue.
AMERICAN NOVELTY CO.,
203 Pitt Street., Sydney,
MANUFACTURING HATTERS|
GEORGE STREET
SVD N EIV
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
New-
Printed and Published by THiUULiJrri aw,
paper Co. (Limited). 34 •Pitt-at. Sydney,
Harper, a married man who a year ago
entered the service of a Waterford farmer, Richard
Dowly, and seduced his employer’s daughter, re-
cently returned, coolly asked for money, and
offered to take the girl away. Dowly seized a
hatchet, exclaiming, “ You villain, you have de-
stroyed her life, I’ll take yours,” and clove his
skull.
Captivity demoralises even the king of
beasts. At the Posen Zoological Gardens a fine
lion walked out of the door, which his keeper had
accidentally left open, and, instead of roaring
about to devour the spectators, jumped up to the
top of a tree. The branch broke, and the lion fell
and stunned himself. Then he was shut up again.
Prolonged imprisonment had muddled the poor
creature’s mind until he was not sure whether he
was a monkey or a bird.
The Echo blubbers for the preservation of
the peerage, the great nobility of England, in a
way that would draw sympathetic tears into the
eyes of Lord John Manners. “To destroy a great
institution, which is the growth of centuries, and
Interwoven with the fibres of the national exist-
ence and currents of thought, would be a world-
wide calamity,” says the Echo, in placid forget-
fulness (if it ever knew) that precisely the same
argument might be employed for leaving a cancer
untouched.
Culchaw is evidently on the spread, and
Oscar Wilde would feel at home, all over, in a
certain hotel in the North, where the high-
toned landlord moistens his hands before pulling
the poultry asunder by tho legs, and the [esthetic
landlandy, as tho breakfast plates are returned to
her, mops the gravy off each with a junk of bread,
and wrapping her alabaster jaws around the greasy
mess observes, in dulcet tones: “ By Jorge, I likes
this. Gravy's the stuff wot sticks t’ yer ribs an’
fattens.” The cook up there wears brick-coloured
ringlets, and so does the butter.
“One March day,” said the venerable
Methodist divine, Bishop Pierce, of Georgia, “I
rode ten miles through a drenching rain to Fiat-
rock Chapel, only to find two persons there, a man
and a boy. After waiting a few minutes, I said,
4 We might as well leave here, as there will be no
congregation.’ But the man quietly responded,
4 Through live miles of pelting rain I have come
to hear preaching.’ I saw my duty, and replied,
4 You are right; you are entitled to it.’ For one
hour I addressed my little congregation, and was
never listened to with more attention.”
The Economist, according to Reuter, refer-
ring to the proposals of N.S. Wales for the issue of
fresh loans, “ ciutions the colony against excessive
borrowing.” How are the mighty fallen! Time
was when borrowing nations shivered if the Eco-
nomist frowned on their securities. Now, as the
last proved and as the present loan will do, when
Australia asks, the British capitalist pays down the
money. The caution this time is all on our side.
We could have thirty millions for the asking.
When Lord Clive was examined as to the money
he had made out of the opportunities he had in
India, and had to confess to only a moderate for-
tune, he said, “ When I think of it, sir, by God
I wonder at my own moderation.”
Why should we degrade humanity by
hanging criminals who can be painlessly killed by
anmsthetics ? At the London home for lost dogs,
Dr. Richardson has made many successful experi-
ments. A chamber was charged with carbonic
oxide, the gas having been previously passed over
a porous surfa e, from which it took up vapour
containing chloroform. Into this chamber was
introduced a cage containing so many dogs, who,
in a very short time passed from life to death in a
profound sleep, without evincing the slightest
pain or consciousness. Dr. Richardson has al*o
administered the same narootlsing agent to sheep,
so as to allow as their being killed in a perfectly
painless manner.
When a bank clerk, who has knocked about
for years on pay less than a navvy, is 44 promoted ”
to something nearly equal to that of a carrier, and
is going away, he is usually presented with a three-
and-sixpenny locket he doesn’t want, and has to
borrow his coach fare to go up ana take charge of
tens of thousands of pounds, and learn the private
affairs of the bank customers. When a manager
leaves, they give him a purse of sovereigns he
doesn’t need. It would be interesting, however,
to know how many of those gushing testimonialists
have tender recolleotions of strained overdrafts
quietly winked at. No human being ever felt such
effusive admiration for a man as theso addresses
imply, unless there had been a good many “quid”
pro quo.
Not long ago, a certain Irish militia regi-
ment was drawn up on parade, awaiting tho
colonel's inspection. One by one the companies
were brought to “attention” by their captains,
until it came to No. 3 Company, the captain of
which had had a serious misunderstanding with
his tenantry on the subject of rents. No word was
given, consequently the company remained stand-
ing “at ease.” Up rode the adjutant, furiously.
“Captain O’Ballyuoodle, why the deuce don't you
call your company to 4 attention ?’ ” No answer.
44 Will you call them to 4 attention ’ sir ?” screamed
the adjutant, now purple with rage. At this
juncture tho colour-sergeant solemnly stepped
out, and addressing the adjutant, said: 44 Av yer
plase, sorr, the captain and his company are not on
Bphaking terms.”
Our old friend, Mr. Richard Anthony
Proctor, has got hold of “a wholesale price-list
of some firm of distillers, which reveals a secret
of the trade. In this document occurs the follow-
ing passage, under the head of ‘Spirit Flavours’:
•The attention of consumers (surely they meant
‘sellers’) in Australia and India is particularly
called to these very useful and excellent flavours.
One pound jof either of these essences to fifty
gallons of plain spirit will make immediately a fine
brandy or Old Tom, &c., without the use of a still.’
This is followed by a list of prices of these
4 flavours,’ and then follows a similar one of 4 Wine
Aromas.’ This is decidedly a lively look-out for
travellers, ispecially for those who have a pre-
ference for certain vintages.’’ But the English
spirit-dealers can't teach muoh to the back-block
and back-slum whisky-mill proprietors, who al-
ready know too well not only how to make grog,
but how to make it 44 bite all the way down.”
Asks Bishop Barry:—‘Can anyone ima-
gine Jesus Christ sending his apostles through
Jerusalem so bedizened, or tolerating tho kind ol'
testimonies and the scenes of uproar which are
permitted, and even enoouraged, at many meet-
ings of the Salvation Army ? T ’ This question of
the above-named Right Reverend Fattier in God
raises a whole host of similar questions. This, for
example:—“Can anyone imagine Jesus Christ
sending his apostles through Jerusalem bedizened
in the garb of an Anglican prelate when got, up in
full fig, or tolerating those exchanges of acidities,
and those scenes of uproar which are the almost
invariable characteristics of the meetings of
Synods ? ” But ’tis the never-failing mark of the
hierarchs of all the so-called Christian sects, each
separate crowd for its own little ring, 44 to be quite
persuaded that the apostles would have done as
they did.” If they cherished these delusions at
their own charges 'twouldn tbe much harm; as it
is, ’tis (as regards mischief) about six of one and
half-a-dozen of the others.
This is in Christian London—London, that
for hundredsof years uas held innumerable mitr ;d
heads, and whose highest monuments and most
magnificent pageants have been associated with
the sacred symbol; London, the centre from which
anti-slavery radiated, and from which to-day issue
the missionaries of peace ana good-will to every
land. Cardinal Manning, preiening for the Uni-
versity Hospital, said that “it would be believed
that Our Lord, who, in His pity and love, wept
over the city of Jerusalem, has abundantly wept
over the sin, the misery, and the death of London.
He could conceive no more ghasily vision than the
amount of sin and mortality that is to be found in
the oity where they dwelt. Every year, some
seventy or eighty thousands go up before the
Judgment Seat, and how many there are unat-
tended by priest or physician God only knows”
If we read the Christian code aright, and recall
the innumerable array of professed teaohersof the
yeligion of Christ who have dwelt there, but who
now figure dimly down the long scroll as self-
seeking, gluttonous disturbers of the peace, the
unflinching opponents of human liberty of
thought and tne grovelling upholders of ancient
abuses, and then finish the list with the names of
saints in our own day who roll in the ill-gotten
wealth that comes as rent from known tenements
of disease and vice, “a ghastlier vision ” awaits
tne Cardinal, if there be any Judgment. Other-
wise, wt see no purpose in holding- it.
A large number of lives have been saved
at English fires lately by the “jumping-sheet,” a
piece of the strongest sail-cloth, about 10ft. by Bft.
Its edges are bound over a stout rope, and at short
intervals round it there is a rope handle, or
“becket.” At the London fire-brigade head-
quarters there is a flrst-fioor window, the sill of
which is perhaps 30ft. from the ground, and from
this every recruit in his turn has to leap, while his
comrades hold out the sheet over the flagstones
beneath. Twenty feet, it may be thought, is no
great leap, but many of the men, all of whom, it
may be observed, have been sailors, find this leap
a really trying ordeal for their nerves, and this is
one of the exercises at which mishaps have been
most frequent. At the old head-quarters, a jump
of 30ft. used to be taken, but this was found to be
fraught with serious danger, and was abandoned.
Even with twenty feet some men are very ner-
vous. They get excited about it, and instead of
jumping into the middle of the sheet, they come
down near the edge, thus bringing the worst of
the fall on to one or two pairs of hands. Occa-
sionally men cannot overcome their nervous
tremours, and after repeated trials still betray ex-
citement. In such cases it is deemed inexpedient
to retain them as recruits, and they have to bo
dismissed. The object of this exercise is to give
the men practice, not only in the rescue of the
inmates of houses in flames, but in escaping them-
selves, should they ever be in a position from
which they could be rescued by no other means.
It says a great deal for the elaborate care with
which every possibility of a chance of rescue is
provided for that this drill is kept up year after
year, and fire-escapes always provided with a
A pretty toilet is here shown, composed of pale-blue silk with mousseline de-laine
top. The underskirt is made with three pinked out flounces, headed with a broad
gathering which is half hidden by the long drapery. The front part of the upper
skirt and the short basque at the back are trimmed with fine cream Spanish lace.
sheet, although, as a matter of experience, it is
seldom in demand.
Laycock, who was hanged 20 th August for
murdering his wife and four children at Sheffield,
said he “didn’t want a reprieve. His heart was
lighter then that it had been since he was a child.”
In a letter to his mother-in-law, he says:—“ I have
Placed myself in God’s hands, and look to Him for
orgiveness, and trusting that my fate will be the
cause of leading others in the right path. I with a
free heart forgive my wife for all her bad doings,
and I pray to God for her forgiveness, trusting
that I may also reoeive the same, that in a very
short time I hope to meet them all in heaven, and
my dear children, whom I dearly loved to my
heart. You must not fret about me. I am not
afraid to die. I am fully prepared to meet my
my Maker in heaven. Oh, how happy it is to die
with a cheerful heart, but what makes it cheerful
is to bo prepared to meet our God, where there is
no more sorry, no more payne, nothink but happi-
ness. Oh, think of this; let it change your hearts
from evil ways, and take my advice for once, let
me beg and pray of you all. Well, I think 1 have
said all this time, trusting that you will come and
see me, and may God bless and protect you all
from the wickedness of this world.” Mr. Laycock,
who, being safely in gaol, has dared to speak
slightingly of his late wife to his mother-in-law
e vidently looks back on his career with satisfaction.
The view he takes of the awful crimes he has
committed differs only in degree from that taken
by many ocher culprits of very low mental organi-
sation. He has turned his home into a slaughter-
house for all who had any claim upon his affection,
yet now he assumes the office of an adviser during
his last hours in secular a 9 well as spiritual matters.
He has butchered his own unoffending little ones,
but when his sister visited him in his ceil at Leeds
he thought that his advice as to how she should
treat her little boy would be valuable. “Do not
thrash him, but talk kindly to him ” he urged,
with an earnestness which was posssibly not simu-
lated. He cut the heads off his four infants, and
therefore considers himself quite an authority on
the proper way of treating children. He says not
one word about remorse. On the other hand, he
tries to justify the killing of his wife by stating
that she slapped him On the face in the street and
pulled his ears. He ventures to tell his mother-in
law “ with a free heart ” that he “ forgives his wife
for all her bad deeds,” and he will “pray for her
forgiveness” in another world. He evidently
thinks his murdered wife is by far the greater
culprit of the two, and he now expects for him-
self “nothing but happiness.” What a queer
world this is!
Everybody knows that the Melbourne
Daily Telegraph is a religious paper. Even
without seeing the editor on his knees with his
hands joined supplicating for the staff an enlight-
enment from above to make up for the short
supply of cablegrams the proprietary afford, the
religious character of the journal can be dis-
covered. It manifests itself by the way in which
it serves up and gloats upon any little giddiness
that goes on between the boys and girls in the
narks. That is always the test-point in a paper.
If it gives the item in a brief, newsj style, it is a
common secular rag; but if it puts the item
stauding up, ogles it, licks its lips at it, goes back-
wards to scan it at a distance, steps near to
examine the joints, touches it, tickles it, walks
ar< und it, then sets it on its head and goes afresh
through the whole performance about the other
end of it, you may step into the witness-box and
swear on the calf-skin that it is a truly religious
newspaper. Well, the Daily Telegraph had a
man with a juvenile face and a white hat in the
Town Hall gallery when the Victorian natives
met on the 22nd to champion federation and annex-
ation. This personage was not a mere reporter.
His duty was to absorb the spirit of the meeting,
to cj tch its enthusiasm, as it were, and return to
the office primed to discharge a volleying leader.
That was enterprising onjthe part of the D.T., and
an admirable “leader” would probably have
been the result if the paper were not a pro-
nouncedly religious one. Under the guidance of
its religious spirit, here is how he broke forth:
“If convictism produced such offspring as filled
the Town Hall last night, well, we should hug owr
ancestry in the face of the world.” Think of it!
Why Tom Moore gibbeted a youth who only hugged
his grandmother. But where can we get sarcasm
enough for the man who would set out to hug his
whole ancestry? Pooh! A man with such a
penchant for hugging is a menace to the commu-
nity. But, then, he is a religious man. And we
are used to wholesale hugging from religious men.
Here are some tiger stories for Mr. Inglis.
A tiger was, the other day, shot in an Indian tele-
graph office. To quote the official report of the
native clerk-in-charge, the brute, which was
“three yards in length and about a yard and a
third or more in height, “had been prowling round
the office all day, and when his retreat was cut off
by men on one side and a train on the other, Mr.
Tiger “ all of a sudden jumped over the fencing
wire and entered my offloe, and jumping over the
ticket cupboard took his seat thereupon. I got
the doors locked up immediately, not allowing
him to come outside again. The country gun was
ready again, and the post-office superintendent
took it; and, since there were no bullets here at
the time, four copper coins, broken into sixtee
pieces, were all oaded into the gun, with gun-
powder. During the interval, the tiger twice took
a walk over the booking-office counter, but, seeing
no way out, he again took his seat on the same cup-
board.” And here he was shot “by the post-office
superintendent, with t e gun prepared as afore-
said.” The clerk concludes his report with a pet -
tion for “two guns, for our protection from tigers.”
And, not lona ago, a tiger wandered into a village,
and after spending much of the night in walking
about on the roofs of the houses, looking in at the
sleepiug inmates, like another Dialle Bolteux, he
must needs jump down through a sky-l'ght into
an empty room. Unable to get out he began roar-
ing, to the prodigious consternation of the in-
mates, who thought the devil had arrived. By
and bye, his majesty of the jungle in his desperate
efforts at release, fell through the floor, and
“ cleared ” jby the front door. On another occa-
sion, a tiger hearing, for the first time in his life,
the voices of some ducks in a wicker-work ham-
per, must needs creep into the camp to investigate
the strange things that made such queer noises,
and, smelling that they were good to eat, forced
*ts head through the wicker-work and could not
withdraw it. The ducks, of course, lifted up their
voices with redoub'ed vehemence, and the more
the tiger shook his head, with the hamper fast
on it, the more the poultry clamoured. Dread-
fully bothered by the predicament, the tiger
tried to bolt, but with his head in a hamper
full of terrified ducks he could not see his way,
and, after blundering about among the tents
for a while, was ignominiously slain. Again,
near Calcutta, a scientific Baboo had put up
a rain-gauge. A tiger wandering into the neigh-
bourhood saw it, and went up in order to find out
what the mysterious thing might be. Finding
water in it, he began to drink, and as the liquid
sank he pushed his head farther and farther into
the funnel. A sudden noise startled him. It was
the worthy Baboo coming out to register the
rainfall, But what was his dismay when he saw a
tiger bounding about his garden with the rain-
gauge fitted on to its head. The unhappy animal
roared out, but its own voice, sounding so
strangely cavernous within the metal tube, was
enough to increase its terror, and, while the mad-
dened beast went bounding round and round,
“ with a hollow voice of roarißg,’’ the Baboo got a
rifle and shot it. We ourselves have never seen a
tiger in a telegraph office. But we have seen many
tigresses. Just you try to hurry up a lady tele-
graph-clerk in London while she is talking to her
mash.”
The burning question of the present day is
this. Will the coming man “smoke” his mother?
We rather thing he will. And for good, substan-
tial damages, too. Because, there comes a tale
from Yermont which tells of a boy, Peter Rass-
mussen by name, over whose bald head three
summers have barely passed, and who began his
journey through life on his hands, circus fashion.
Every effort to compel Peter to use his legs natur-
ally was made by his distressed parents, but with-
out success. When his rubber ring rolls away
from his grasp, Peter at once “ reverses his poles,”
as Professor Edison would say, hoists himself up
on his hands, and moves after his play-toy. On
reaching it, he grasps it between his feet, and
marches back on his paws the way he started. The
only explanation given for this eccentricity on the
part of Master Rassmussen is that of his mother,
who says she attended a circus about three and a
half years ago—shortly before Peter was born, in
fact—at which the wonderful acrobatic perform-
ances of a wall-eyed Mongolian contortionist by
the name of Kitchi Li Hung made an exceedingly
strong impression on her mind. So strong, in fact,
did her memory hang on to Li Hung that she was
continually dreaming about men walking round
on their hands, and upon several occasions she
nearly scared the soul out of old Mr. Rus-
mussen himself by some surprisingly wonderful
exhibitions of ground and lofty tumbling at mid-
night’s silent hour. What makes the trouble all
the more serious is that Peter’s complexion is de-
cidedly butter-coloured already: the heel part of
his eyebrows is gradually crawling up to the top
corners of his forehead, he talks in a foreign tongue,
has a morbid longing for stinking fish, and, in short,
is rapidly developing into a second edition of the
boneless Kitchi Li Hung himself. Old Mr. Rass-
uaussen can’t account for the thing at all. None
of his previous children ever acted thus, and he
has no theory whatever to fit the case We are,
therefore, compelled to accept the circus account
of the phenomenon as given by Peter’s fond Mama,
tnd this brings us face to face with the startling
fact that our future lives are entirely dependant
on the style of amusement affected by our mothers
before our birth. A child may be endowed with
the genius of a Shakspeare, but if his maternal
parent had a weakness for wild beast shows prior
co his introduction to this world that child would,
according to Mrs. Rassmussen’s theory, develop a
tail and spendlthe bulk of his existence following
hand-organs round the streets or squatting down
on the roof-tops for the purpose of studying ento-
nology in his various stages. If, on the other
hand, the misguided woman should be unduly
addicted to attending political meetings she would
undoubtedly give to the world a hatchet-faced man
vho’d be continually nosing about to select land
along secretly projected railway routes, or trot-
ring round departmental back stairs to secure
Government billets for the whole of his dead-beat
relations. Then, again, the mother of the coming
man might have a weakness for the society of
uarsons of the extremely Free Church order; and
it would assuredly follow that her son, even
chough he were a second Joseph by nature, would
still feel inclined to cry “ rest thee, rest thee,” to
every honest woman he met as he took her on his
knee and began to tell her all about what Paul
said to the Californians, even as the good Vic-
torian shepherd is alleged to have done «t Wim-
mera. Or, supposing the expectant mother had a
penchant for picnics, the result would be that—
well, parsons aro bad enough, perhaps, so we’ll
draw the line at picnics. Enough has been said,
however, to show that the coming man’s prospects
in life are entirely ruled by the previous re-
creations of his mother, and, if it can be proved
that she exhibited malice, or undue carelessness
in the choice of her amusements prior to his birth,
he certainly has very good grounds for entering
an action for substantial damages against her. [As
we go to press we regret to learn that old Mr.
Rassmussen, after publicly declaring his wife’s
theory was all roseate “rot,” broke both Master
Rassmussen’s arms with a crow-bar, and is now
searching round for Mr. Kitchi Li Hung with a
double-barrelled howitzer.— Ed. B.]


7 , Ingham’s .
I Euphorbia Q
MILJuFERy* i
HUEENSLAND CIJRE
T m, Bronchitis a
*
\S ONLV BY : r\i
lngham -N
-.i
as
K
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Ha ve your Umbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
541 George Street,
Brickfield flill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. 'Repairs neatly axe-
Pa PerhangiDßB of the most
Crn(! 6ert jVer 6een in the colonies.
ct Post fr Ce .
BQRTHWIGK,
Importer of
eet ’ a, itl Ornamental Olass,
■ COLOR MERCHANT,
| t ®R and decorator,
erer ’ Reveller, and Embosser.
STREET,
/ "> 0,,P ! eit lH^ nter Street.
\ B iYANDCO7,
i ® King-street.
’s Mrars, k
%l b r SShjf
jJukJ ll Pit q?,!?: 6<i -> seldom equalled I Never
%>ar to i! ty or flniBh -
r ' Viuter > large variety, lowest
K SrS| B iyhsh shapes.
HWv ' Nlgbt Sh »rts, Handk
Handkerchiefs, &c.
CO., 96 King-street.
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
TTIHE sparkling-, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
i quenching properties of this world-renowned
iottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs,
tobert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
he Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
teer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
hoicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
LLE. which is to be obtained of all the leading
Vine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents. _____
A NGLO - AUSTRALIAN INVESTMENT
/\ FINANCE and LAND COMPANY
(Limited.)
Offices: HOFFNUNG’S BUILDINGS,
163 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Capital, £560,000, in 50,000 Shares of £lO each.
Subscribed Capital .. •••
Reserve Fund £5OOO.
Directors:
Henry Gorman, Esq., J.P.. Chairman.
Hon. Fred. A. Wright, M.P., Vice-Chairman.
3. c. Skarratt, Esq. IJ. H. Newman. Esq.
iV. H. Paling, Esq., J.P. I Benjamin James, Jr.,
| Esq.
Deposits received at following rates :
At call .. •• Five per cent.
3 months .. •• Five and a half per cent.
” a Six per cent.
”i 3 ” Seven per cent.
INVESTING SHARES :
Shares are now beiDg issued.
Full particulars on application to Manager.
DIVIDENDS:
Half-yearly dividends, at the rate of LJ4 p© r
cent, per annum, have been paid since establish-
ment of Company.
ADVANCES; x .
Loans, repayable by monthly instalments, ad-
vanced for a term of years.
WILLIAM CLARKE,
Manager.
\Y. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers anil Magazines received by
every Mall.
MIVAt ARCADK. fJKOKOW “T. <W» 4Ynisn
w
SEASOIT, ISS 4=
fs EIIPES mid SHAW
Wave the pleasure to inform their friends and the public that they
lift» * OPENING for the coming season,
'‘‘Wing millinery and straw goods,
1,,i Tii Alj L THE newest dress materials,
-
EARASOLS, of the newest colourings and designs,
Trimmed and Untrimmed, Gilt Ribs, and Newest Handles.
ff* 1 * tod Imitation LiLCI3 GOODS,
a, —•«* and Black, as well a« the Various Shades in New Coloured JLace Goods.
w-* B O, \rtnvr.
rOODS and NOVELTIES in the following departments:—
% ( ®a?lsv , E8 TEIMMINGS
handkerchiefs
LADIES’ UNDERCLOTHING
CHILDREN’S UNDERCLOTHING
STAYS and CORSETS
STLKS, SATINS, aDd MANTLES
EVENING DRESS MATERIALS
% Wi Our Plain Drapery Department
( lUito ? B l t !' an unusually large assortment of NEW GOODS for the Season, and we aro
urG our prices will compare favourably with any house in the trade.
o ' v °Ui n KS, Counterpanes, Calicoes, Blankets, Flannels, Irish Linens, Table Linens, &o
an q
’ 8i:!6 i atj l (] C ' a n r J'vL’ R il the latest sba
Gentlemen’s Departments.
and ; a ii the latest shapes in Linen Collars; Gentlemen’s Gloves, in every make.
«m> a °olour; Gentlemen’s Umbrellas; Waterproof Clothing ; Gentlemen’s White
and Coloured Shirts of every description,
' iv hitl », oi , J l ® ADY-M ADE CLOTHING —We are almost daily opening out Men’s and Boys’
C 0Q the most scientific principle, and of a reliable and durable character.
U DEPARTMENT.—AII the Newest Woollens for the Season. Skilful Cutters
Moderate Prices.
and
s & SHAW, Importers and Manufacturers,
»24, 330, 328 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
123 DALMERSTON BUILDINGS, OLD BROAD STREET, LONDON.
PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
ITow Open.
HOTEL,
9
V
** of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
***„«■ McCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor,
iUR UP-STAIRS.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LEDIARD’B SHORT HORN BOURBON .-The
drink of the army, navy, the clubs, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leading
beverage in Australia; it has no rival; the oftener
you try it the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUHG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
Champagne
HoisSsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OP ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHARDS & Co., London.
i-cie'Averts for Heidsiech & Co., Reims.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH
Warranted f i rst q u a I ity
Chargesstrictly moderate
MARSHALL BROTHERS
oN:Q£ NT !Et.
TEETH PAINLESSLY STOPPED.
The practice of PAINLESS DENTISTRY is
carried on by the aid of a large and complete stock
of modern apparatus. Painless extraction by
Nitrous Oxide or Laughing Gas.
Black Swan Hofei,
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magniflcient s.s. Illawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o'clock.
P. KIEBT,
From the late Mr. James Curtis,
TTrxdertSLkier,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.— Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten GO) years.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
tr
mmz
U)
o
m
a
ABLE
NVALU
Y» suffering
Qss
m
U
a
efi
W.
Net
you
sue
s s
U
B.en
m
ADAPTED FOR 1
uv
THE
sL
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
|i|%
R.BURC.IS.
TAILOR..
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from lflß. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STEEET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for
forwarded to an.v part of the colony
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
tST THIS PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old- Hs/£a/fc-u-red.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
303 ©serge Street* Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “Vhiskey Doctors.
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Baiy Brothers,- .
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT Ok PARLIAMENT, 1873
Paid-up Capital £300,000
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors *
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King. M.L.C.
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors *
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq l
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen,
Branches in New South Wales :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone.
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors :
Edward Chapman, Esq. I Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, Esq
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
w.
EL iiriell & Co.’s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Fiour, in 601 b.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
J 4, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
PREMIER
New Tobacco Factory.
PREMIER TOBACCO, free from Adulteration
and possessing- all the agreeable qualities
of PURE TOBACCO.
Brand Registered to prevent imitation. Manu-
factured by
NORRIE and MAYER.
Factory and Warehouse,
017 & 319. RENT-STREET, SYDNEY.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, oare of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
Copyrighted.
H0DSTA0H3 and WHISSEES.
Boyd's Beard Elixir did this, and
trill do it on cither bald head or
bare face, jForces heavy Motts ■
tache in from 2 to 4 weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, eertain in effect,
each, 3 for 3*. 6 d.,post paid , sent under cover, free
Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, Cf.P.O
from observation .
Sydney ,NJS‘ W*
BEFOnC after
Copyrighted.
Packets 1«. ft*
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER Off PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all oK customers and the
nubile generally that he has a large assortment of
Drawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, ail of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
BO B E It T BUTCHER & CO
(Late William Long),
lar- WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY 1
Country Ordeni receive prompt attt'CC


ojtl C-old. T e^ollerr 1
i
** m
ft
ins
■WATCHES, H’ESOlvl 30s. H2-A.CSS.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended 1°
mmm if
TAYLOR %
EH
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.
(OPPOSITE WYNYAKD
IMEaartdLxi. KeeslJ.a:a,
STAR AND DARTER HOTEL,
No, 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Finns Hot-el is centrally situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
Ji Sup. nor A eeoimc' Nation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. H rat-class Wines and Spirits.
The most Oomiortable ami Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Mandorsand Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegram* from all parts of the colony posted up.
' -J- -tiaW d-VX-G ■ tqO§>
A J C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SA^
91 King-street.
N. 8.—1 ALWAYS BACK THE FIELD.
FRY’S
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
& SON'S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of t.h« active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter. Lancet.
J. S. FEY
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
ORWi
fcORWi;
r
Sft€6n&
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should bo caretuby compared, as largo
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LORNE HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will And a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in favour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND WHISKY.
VIRGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
t AGENTS.
HIGGDT'S
Prize M edai Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Ha£ secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
eLBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey’s Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCKER & CO., Sole Agents,
aifl George-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.'
KTBW
WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARO SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
EXHIBIT!
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to tbe TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE,
glassTchina,
AND
earthenware,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SORIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T GAYiN’S
Scbntppa and Geneva.
A, MELTiN and SONS’
Edinbingn Pale die.
T. JONES and GO.,
65 MACQUARIE-STREET SOUTH,
Air-tight
SHOW
CASE
AND
ART
CABINET
MAKERS.
as
General
JOINERS,
SHOP,
AND
OFFICE,
FITTERS.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
USE NOTHING BUT
s TANDABD MIXED PAIN T.
HAS NO DIRT NORCHARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory : COWPBBWHABP, STB KEY.
See Evening News advt.
BLAKE’S l« p g
STEAM Y-UT***
H. P. GREGORY *(*
17 PITT STBE
SYDNEY, *
. w qi0B)
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOB
and have In Stock and to
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS pl jo B
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE
MINING PUMPS A TIN^ pIJJI
COMBINED AIB&OIRC{Jk
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS p 3
deep-well-sinking p u
PA® 111 ” 1 *
SEND FOR PRICES AND Ah
CATALOGUES FOB^?^8
PAS
Office : 330
STORES: MIB
Lfiß’S
ie<*
„ »TJn
N.B. PRtlerD
PAINTS.
OILS.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
RSanufacturer of ail kinds of JErated Waters, Cordials, and Hitters, and Proprietor of *
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
81 MB 38 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Sofa Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueur 8 ’
