

THE BULLETIN
VoL 2.—No. 58.—New Serie
SATURDAY, JUNE 21, 1884.
Price—6d.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JUNE 21, 1884.
Nemesis.
“In order to be a great statesman, it is
necessary first to be a great scoundrel,” says
a moralist; and historical studies lend strong
endorsement to the maxim. The present
Prime Minister of Great Britain, Mr. Glad-
stone, appears to have lived, on the whole,
an exception to the rule. His reputation is
great, while his career is chargeable with
few incidents which blacken his character.
No man’s reputation is, however, settled
until his career has closed. There is a
numerous minority which even now denies
to Mr. Gladstone the reputation of a great
statesman. And the present time witnesses
a crisis which threatens to terminate hi 8
public career under a prodigious disgrace—
as the term disgrace is understood in diplo-
matic phraseology. We have always been
among the small minority of public journal-
ists who maintained that the suppression of
ihe Nationalist movement in Egypt, of which
Ababi Pasha was the leader, was an act of
political immorality, utterly at variance
with the political principles of which Mr.
Gladstone had been the life-long apostle.
We denounced the enterprise, from the out-
set, as an outrage, questioned the genuine-
ness of the excuses which were offered for
entering upon it, and attempted to show
that, even if genuine, these excuses were
irrelevant and inadequate. Nothing has
since transpired to induce us to alter the
views we then expressed. On the contrary »
the entire sequence of events, many of which
have been unexpected, has endorsed our
objections and strengthened our argument.
Every successive phase of the invasion of
Egypt has borne testimony to the accuracy of
the diagnosis which attributed the interven-
tion by Great Britain to the occult influence
of the money-lending class. We early derided
the pretences that the invasion was benevo-
lent, and in the interests of the people of
Egypt, and that it would not develop into
a permanent sovereignty of the country.
We pointed out—what all historical prece-
dents had taught—that even when the will
to recede existed, the natural tendency of
events made it generally impossible for an
invader to retire, in similar cases. Even
contemporary events illustrated this. The
progressive advances of Russia in Central
Asia have constantly been, and are to-day,
justified by themselves, and excused by Mr.
Gladstone’s own Government on the plea
that events have proved stronger than the
inclinations of the Russian Government, and
that not only has it been impossible any-
where to recede, but that each forward step
involved a train of consequences which ulti-
mately rendered an additional step forward
imperatively necessary. As in that case the
conquest of Khiva was not merely rendered
requisite by the undertaking to impose a
settled style of Government in that State,
but rendered necessary the advance to
Merv, so in the case of the British interfer-
ence with the domestic affairs of Egypt, the
preliminary intrusion dragged the Liberal
Government of England not only into a war
of conquest waged against that Egyptian
nation, whom, it was pretended, the interfer-
ence was to save from the minor evil of an
internal revolution, but also brought about
a collision with the tribes of the S">udan>
and demanded apparently additional Sligh-
ter and fresh conquests.
* * ♦
It will clear the ground somewhat to con-
sider what would have been the probabili-
ties had Britain, in lieu of throttling the
National revolution which Akabi had prac-
tically accomplished when England inter-
fered, permitted that internal change of
Government to be perfected. It is probable
that among the first measures of the
National Government an adjustment of the
financial relations between the Egyptian
people and its creditors would have had aper-
manent place. It is possible that the eman-
cipated people would have repudiated
responsibility for some of the millions ster-
ling which had been lent to their past
tyrants upon the security of their own unre-
sisting submission to be ground down to the
dust. To a certain extent these loans were
personal matters, between private capital-
ists of various nationalities on the one
hand, and the Khedive on the other. The
security was the Prince’s power to squeeze
his subjects. The risks were two-fold. First,
the possible exhaustion of the energies of
the people despoiled; and, secondly, the
possibility of their exerting energy enough
to successfully resist and dethrone the
tyrant who was the instrument for squeez-
ing them. A successful effort in the latter
direction would not be the concern of any
European Government, and the enfran-
chised people of Egypt and the usurers of
Europe might have been conveniently left to
settle their quarrel their own way, without
loss of prestige by any nation. But, on the
other hand, there were certain loans to the
rulers of the Egyptians, which the lenders
bad contrived to get guaranteed by inter-
national sanctions and recognitions. Had
the Nationalist and Revolutionary Govern-
ment repudiated these, there would Lave
arisen a casus belli, and we should have
landed later in the condition at which we
arrived [earlier —a wa r against the Egyp-
tian people. But such a war would,
at least have been as decent as any-
thing so detestable as War can, in its
essence, be. It would have been free from
the disgraceful ill-odour of the conflict w®
actually engaged in—a conflict which was
conducted on hypocritical false pretences,
in which a two-faced craven was regarded
as the nation, and the nation was dealt with
as rebels, albeit there was only that one man
—and he not an Egyptian, but the son of a
Turk by a Cii’cassian slave—who was not
among the rebels. And it is not even likely
that anyconfliot would have occurred. Had
the Powers been content, as they well might
—not only without any loss, but with a posi-
tive gain, of prestige— to insist on their
guarantees being respected, while they
waived all concern in private money deal-
ings, it is contrary to all precedent and to
human nature to imagine that the National
Government of the Egyptians would not have
jumped at such a compromise, and also joy-
fully assented to any reasonable measures
for denationalizing the Suez Canal and its
vicinage, so as to allay any jealousies as to
their designs in that direction.
• • •
In such case, the trouble in the Soudan
might have assumed its present proportions,
or it might not. It is reasonable to conceive
that much of the inllammation of the Maho-
medau tribes in those regions has been due
to the knowledge that the infidel Giaours
had overrun Egypt, assumed control of that
State, and were directing the operations ©f
the renegade Moslems in Egyptian uniform
who were continuing the attempts to bring
the Soudan to subjection. The attempts of
a Musselman ruler of an adjacent country
to Impose his rule upon the Musselmans of
the Soudan was a thing to be resisted for
patriotic and racial reasons; but the same
attempts made by Infidel conquerors of the
adjacent Moslem country was an indignity to
be opposed to the death —an atrocity in the
eyes of every true believer, which added
fanaticism to patriotism, and set the tribes*
which had but smouldered before, into a
blaze of furious ardour. The Mahdi was a
doubtful prophet, while Arabi, also a Mos-
lem and a successful helper of the oppressed*
claimed to be the Mahdi himself. But
directly Arabi’s mission was extinguished
and his claims quashed by the convincing
proof of defeat and belittlement, the rival
Mahdi attracted all eyes, and, being without
a rival, rose in influence. It is possible that
Arabi, with willing Egyptian troops, ex-
hilarated by winning the freedom of their
country, might at least have conclusively
repelled the feebler assaults which the Sou-
dan Prophet, more feebly supported than
now, could have made. But even had the
case been otherwise, and Egypt been im-
perilled, there would have been several
alternatives, all satisfactory enough, remain-
ing to England and the other Powers in-
terested in protecting the line of the Suez
Canal. They could have supported the
Egyptians, instead of first wiping out their
army, quelling their nascent spirit, and then
having to fight their battles, not only with-
out their help, but almost against their will;
or the Soudanese might have been permitted
to conquer Egypt if the fortune of war so
decided. England alone, or Europe com-
bined, could assuredly have made good the
line of the Canal and the Delta.
* * *
The first mistake, however, put all these
chances out of reach. Mr. Gladstone's
Government now staggers under the re-
sponsibility of a tardy repentance. Having
sinned against Egypt and against Heaven, the
British Government seek to perform impos-
sibilities. That is to say, they attempt to
make a moral ending compatible with an
immoral commencement. They have scruples
—too late. “Do not lie,” wrote Chester-
field the worldly, in his counsel to his son
“ but if you find yourself so situated that
you must lie, place your hand on your
heart, and say “Upon my honour!” The
spirit of this advice is applicable to foreign
policy. Do no outrage to any nation; but,
if you enter upon a criminal course, go
through with it vigorously to the bitter end.
The Tories would have managed this Egyp-
tian business more handsomely than Glad-
stone. They would have entered upon it
without compunction, and they would never
have troubled about clearing out again, no
matter what promises they might have con-
sidered it convenient to make, as blinds, at
the outset, They would have covered the
national crime in a gorgeous cloak of glory—
would have filled their conquest with British
troops, when Mr. Gladstone’s Government,
prompted by tardy compunctions of con-
science, were withdrawing them; and they
would, partly by the moral effect of their
determined attitude, and, if necessary, by
sheer strength of battalions, have managed
the Mahdi and his hordes, and made the
name of Englishman not more hated by the
wretched Egyptians than now, but at least
more respected. It is a wonderful thing,
this, that more respect should be attainable
by boldly completing a crime, than by com-
mencing one, repenting, and slinking away
in a penitential mood. The latter is cer-
tainly the more moral and commendable
condition. Yet it generally excites con-
tempt. It seems a hard Providence which
makes Mr. Gladstone’s very return to
virtue the whip which scourges him, ?<?r hi§
original lapse,
MISS GENEVIEVE WARD.


ij miiM|
BRIAN B
Brian boru whisky is m
the ft aest Irish Grain. W
by age, is carefully bottled und
the officers of H.M. Customs,
enormous quantities to all pa
Australian consumers will find
mellow, and wholesome. The ,
this Old Irish Whisky in Engls
the Colonies, is a sufficient i
quality. Brian Boru Whisky wa
and therefore cannot boast of gi
JAMES YOUNG , Che
SOLE AGENT
THE LiNNERiniTII
OLD SCOTCH 1
This celebrated brand of
bottled by Messrs. YOUNG, KIN
excise supervision. For purity,
strength, it is unsurpassed. Full
teed.
JANES YOUNG, Che
BOLE AGBNTf
ON SALE BY THE UNDE
Brian Boru Old Irish Whisky, in
The Lammermuir Old Scotch W 1
Brandy in case and bulk, • and *
West India Rum, in qr.-casks am
Bass’s Ale, Guinness’s Stout,
and
THE CELEBRATED BELFAST
JAMES YO
7 & 9 Change
SYDNEY
Melbourne Office : 26 Fllndei
Adelaide Office; Grenfeil-str
Coughs and I
ijihb
Beat Cure for the above
and taken at bed-tl
tar pure r
Extra Strong.
6a. PER IMPERIAL
C. W. ROB!
liiglt Bottle It|
JpOUKTH OF JULY ANNUAL BALL.
NEW MASONIC HALL, Cattlereagh-street.
COMMITTEE.
Chas. Kahlo, U.S. Consul
Wm. Fleming
B. A. Little
Dr. Geo. M. Slate, Vice-Consul
Frank Coffee
Dr. J. C. Harrison
E. D. Tollemache
E. B. Clifford
M. 8. Hill.
Tickets limited, and procurable only from Chas.
Kahlo, hon. treasurer. 40, Hunter-street, and
from Members of the Committee.
Department of Publlo Works,
Sydney, 17th June, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Govebnment Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of tho Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind Itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Erection of Station Buildings,
&c., at Young
Additions, &c., Orange Gaol
Alterations, &c., Courthouse,
Brewarrina
Additions, &c Newcastle Post
Office
Additions, &c„ Courthouse, East
Maitland
Fittings, &c., Government Print-
ing Office
Erection of Signal-Box, Rook-
wood Station
Tuesday,
24th June,
at 11 o’clock.
Additions, &c„ Steamers’ Wharf
Newcastle
Iron Drawbridge with timber
approach, span over Erina
Creek at East Gosford
Erection of Lockup. Milltown
Erecting Overbridge at Goul-
burn Railway Station
Erecting Gate-house, Sheep and
Cattle Yards, at Glencoe, G.N.
Railway
Erecting Post and Telegraph
Office, Paddington
Erection of Porter’s House,Mac-
donald River, G.N. Railway
Construction of Ash-pits Eve-
leigh
Tuesday,
1st July,
at 11 o’clock.
Thb Rates of Subscript Km to The Bulletin
are—For one year, 245.; half-year, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. od.—ln advance.
Thb Advertising Bates are 6s. per Inch!
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods, as follows On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser
tlons, 10 per cent.: For 26 consecutive insertions
16 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 26 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
bo made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office. Cobar
Erection of Post and Telegraph
Office, Uralla
Additions to Quarters, Gobby’s
Lighthouse, Newcastle
Construction of Machinery,
Shafting, &o., Government
Printing Office
Erecting Station Buildings Jerll-
derie
Laying on Water and Gas, and
repairs to the Protestant Or-
phan School, Parramatta
Supply and Erection of Three
Iron Goods Sheds, Circular
Quay
Masonry Dam across Nepean
River, Sydney Water Supply
Erection of Closets, Sheds, &c.,
Lunatic Asylum, Parramatta
Bridge over Sandy Creek, road
Bega to Brogo
Bridge over Stoney Creek, road
Bega to Brogo
Bridge over Double Creek, road
Bega to Brogo
Bridge over Sandy Creek, road
Dubbo to Cobborah
Tuesday,
8th July,
at 8 o’clock.
Paving- with Stone, Post and
Telegraph Office, Forbes
Additions, &c.. Lookup, Wilber-
foroe
Repairs, &c., Wagga Wagga Gaol
Alterations, &o.,to Clock Tower
Post and Telegraph Office,
Kiama
Erection of Kitchen, Closet,
Stable, &o., Courthouse and
Lockup, Canowindra
Tuesday,
15th July,
at 11 o’clock.
Construction of 2nd Section of
the IMawarra Railway
Additions,Courthouse, Menindie
Brick Boundary Wall, &o., Lock-
up Oaol, Bourke
Additions, &c., Courthouse, Em-
maville
Tuesday,
32nd July,
at 11 o’clock.
Pipes, Special Castings, and I
valves, Sydney Water Supply I
Tuesday,
12th August,
at 11 o’clock.
Manufacture and Supply of
150,000 Tons of Steel Rada.
.
10th February,
1886,
at 11 o’clock.
F. A. WEIGHT.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 16th June, 1884.
TENDERS FOR WATER CLOSETS.
TENDERS are Invited for the Erection of
Water Closets, at the Superior
Public School.
Specifications may be seen, and Forms of Tender
obtained at the office of the Department of
Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Erection of
Water Closets, Fort-street Superior Public School,’
must bo lodged with the Acting Under Secretary,
Department of Public Instruction, at or before 10
o’clock a.m. on Monday, the 80th June, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
SOBERT BUTCHER ft CO
(Late William Long).
|ar- WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY 1
Country Orders receive prompt attention.
A N C I N G
PKOF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Priyate Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite or
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, ml
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.»-r"
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all o«
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
spring floor, &c. No decorations required.
DEAFNESS I—Descriptive pamphlets of the
positively infallible remedies prescribed by
those eminent aurista, the Senior Surgeons of tne
TWO London Royal Ear Infirmaries, forwarded (on
receipt of stamps for reply) by T. B. Hannafora,
Auckland, New Zealand.
Scene : Friar Tuck Lodge (Hotel), Buffalo
Night. Tired traveller, with portmanteau, driving
up to “cullud gemman” who ia standing in the
doorway: “Here, take this up to No. 3, and stop
there till you’ve pulled my ulster off.” C.G.:
“ I’se not a hoots, sah; I’se a knight.” Pass the
gatta!
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Taylor Method.
The vigour of the style in which Mr. A. G. Taylor
trounced Lord Augustus Loftus, in his capacity
of Commander-in-Chief, has,‘as a matter of course,
evoked remonstrances from the Echo. In fact,
all the daily papers censure Mr. Taylor s manner
and taste. Had they not done so, perhaps we
might have done the same; but that would have
been only half our comment. We will proceed,
therefore, to the half which has not occurred to
ous contemporaries. That is, that, whatever Mr.
Taylor’s style may be, he alone discharged a duty
which wanted doing. The strictures which Mr.
Taylor directed against Lord Augustus Loftus
were thoroughly deserved; and, if hon. members
and canny editors would have preferred thatfthe
function of “flapping” His Excellency be per-
formed with grace and delicacy, it is strange that
no one of them undertook it. But for Mr. Taylor.
the Governor's most disloyal and censurable pre-
ference of his own inclinations and stubbornness
to the interests of the community he is paid to
attend to, would have passed unoensured. In
future, if anyone wants Governors and Bishops to
be licked with a smooth tongue, the party so desir-
ing had best undertake the business himself. Other,
wise it is certain thataM’BLHONEor an A. G. Tay-
lor will rasp (the offender, and make popular
capital out of the performance. A very large
section of the public are heartily sick alike of
feeble journalism, which never censures aught
except things already condemned, or exhibitions
of vigour and directness which put it to shame,
and of compromising politicians, who will blink
anything rather than run the risk of "getting
themselves disliked.” Mr. Taylor’s methods are
not elegant. We do not think them even saga-
cious. But they are straightforward, and please
more than the groundlings. If we might venture
a word of counsel to Mr. Taylor, it would be that
he should study to attain results rather than to
make splashes. His attacks, as at present con.
ducted, often do high-placed offenders more good
than harm, as serious lapses are condoned on ac.
count of the disinclination of the humdrums to
seem to endorse Mr. Taylor’s system of Insult,
cum-accusatlon. But, all things considered, there
is less reason to censure “ the language ” of Mr.
Taylor than the silence of every other public
roan.
More Delirium.
The Daily Telegraph gravely discusses, as
though it were a new conception, a correspon-
dence initiated by “ a very well-known citizen,
who moderately uses good whisky,” and who
wrote, In a vein of concealed satire, over the signa-
ture “ Blue Ribbon,” censuring the works of
Dickens, on the grounds that their tendanoy is
against the cause of temperance. Several indig-
nant rejoinders are sent to and published by the
D.T., which rallies the writers for believing that
“Blue Ribbon’s” letter was seriously meant.
Now, the fact is, that the thing is as stale as pos-
sible. The objection advanced by “ Blue Ribbon ”
has been seriously urged against the tendency of
Dickens’ works years ago. And, as a matter of
fact, it is not, as the D.T. seems to imagine, trans-
parently absurd ; but, on the contrary, is quite
sustainable. We don’t, ourselves, see any object
in raising it at all. Dickons, like Fielpino, sim.
ply mirrored the spirit and ideas of the times of
which he treated. And the old stage-coach days
were not days when sobriety was esteemed as it
now is. Drunkenness was a pretty general indul-
gence of all classes, and regarded as a not dis-
creditable concomitant of a jovial disposition.
Dickens certainly did throw a glamour over in-
bxication in many instances. He depicted his
characters getting drunk with so much grace
and humour in their cups, that readers are
led insensibly to regard the condition of intoxica-
tion as lending piquancy to a man’s demeanour,
and bringing out jolly and hearty traits in his dis-
position. Mr, Pickwick repeatedly gets drunk,
and when drunk is perfectly delightful. Mr. Dick
Swivelleb, very drunk, develops quite a surpris-
ing access of humour, and is almost more attractive
drunk th an sober. Even Quilp’s orgies are heroic
rather than revolting. A great deal of the action
of Dickens’ stories passes in bar-parlours, and a
flavour of rum and lemons, of milk-punch and
shrub, pervades whole chapters. This is the solid
truth. The moral is not that Dickens’ works are
faultless in that respect, but that reasonable men
have not yet arrived at that frame of mind which
would induce them to relegate his novels to the
high shelf which contains the plays of the drama-
tists of the Restoration, and the novels of
Bmollet, Fielding, and even of Richardson,
whose works the severely moral Dr. Johnson did
not hesitate to rank next the Bible as wholesome
reading. All these works were reflexes of the
spirit of the age in which they were written. The
accusation levelled against Dickens is true, but is
equally true of most of his contemporaries. Wil-
son’s “ Noctes Ambrosiamc ” are pervaded by an
air of tlpslness and a fume of whisky toddy.
Charles Lever’s characters, in his earlier and
best novels, get drunk with exhilarating prompt!,
tude, every opportunity. The Telegraph should
twaddle about subjects it understands. An essay
on the moral applicability of saveloys to Methodist
choir-singers would be more in its line.
Flown derings.
When the present Government first announced In
outline their proposal for land legislation, their
Bill appeared a promising measure. Since it has
got Into Committee, and Mr. Farnell has presided
over the shaping out of the details, the fair seem-
ing of the BUI has been reduced, stage by stage.
The Minister fer Lands apparently exhausted all
his courage and originality in the first rough
sketch. The detail is neither original nor
Mr. Farnell is under the spell of custom. He relies
upon old methods for the most part, and where ho
essays a Ire ih departure, drifts into minutiae de-
rived from the worst practices of the land system
which this Bill pretends to terminate. It is
odd to observe Mr. Farnell, the reformer,
advocating, and Sir John Robertson de-
nouncing, provisions which tend to renew
the curse of dummylsm, and which so
tend because Mr. Fa knell, has borrowed them
from Sir John Robertson’s own system. What
with BPD-rcfc'ldeatiai selections, and the pertnittai
of fencing as a sole improvement, we suspect that
under the new law of Mr. Farnell, from which
the country and ourselves hoped so much, bona
fide selectors will have a harder time than ever,
and dummyism will flourish as It never flourished
before. If our diagnosis of the Bill be accurate, it
may now be styled a Bill to promote and acceieiate
Revolution in N.B. Wales; for it is pretty certain
that the more complete and rapid the process of
land monopolisation, the more certain and speedy
will be the reaction towards nationalisation of the
land. The fewer the land-holders, the more
numerous the assailants of monoply and the
keener the conflict. Go it, Farnell! Go it blind!
♦
A lot of fuss has been made about chaining
up a drunk and disorderly at Canowlndra. In
Queensland It used to be the regular practice to
chain up prisoners, when, as at Cauowindra, there
was no lock-up. And quite right, too. We have
known of a thief being brought down from the
Dawsou to Rockhampton by private persons who
have had him chained to the wheel of a drag
every night. Australia is not England; and, when
a man in the back-blocks is not lit to be loose, and
there’s no place secure enough to shut him up,
the chain is the best thing for him. Beasts are
habitually chained up. A drunken man is a beast
and often very dangerous as, well, as the most of-
fensive of brutes. Were the police to bail up
every man they saw reeling or raving, and
chain them up till they got sober, The Bulletin
would say never a word. If some members
of Parliament had their own way, the poor dear
drunkards would be taken up tenderly, bathed*
sprinkled with essences, placed in beds of down,
and their sweet slumbers soothed by a paid choir,
till they sobered up. And the same sort of mem-
bers would prefer that tram-guards who steal, and
other objects of regard, should be given the bene-
fit of the doubt, even when there’s no doubt. We
want to know what’s the matter with decent and
honest people, that all the sympathy should go to
the blackguards who plague them. It is a serious
fact that it is only requisite for a “ drunk ” to be
treated as he deserves, or for a petty official to be
slated for insolence or thieving, for certain mem-
bers of the Assembly to get up and declaim as
though virtue and innocence were assailed. Such
members want to be popular. 1 hey deserve to
be, and possibly are—among thieves and drunks.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.]
“Navvy ” (Molong): The vagaries of coun-
try J.P.’s are like the grace of God—past all under-
standing. We couldn’t notice them all without
increasing the size and price of the paper....
“8.K.”: So your Public-school is shaky—nothing
but the shaft of a dray and a mortgage keeps it
from being blown away. Tell you what. Invite
Buchanan, Taylor, Andy Lynch, a sprinkling of
Ministers, and (this in your ear) a certain exalted
person to a banquet there when a typhoon is
coming up from the Pacific. Then go out and re-
move both props. Savez ?....“ Subscriber" (Cole
Yale): From Sydney or Melbourne the best and
quickest route to Silverton is by 8. Australia—steam
to Adelaide, rail to Terrowa (within about 300 miles
of Silverton), and coach the remainder. See
Australasian of 7th or 14th June for account of
trip .. “P.A.” (Durkan) : Send along the adver-
tisement. We always “go ” for those dangerous
donkeys who do their little best to perpetuate
religious and racial animosities “Snooks”:
(1.) Hudson’s “ crush ” last heard ef some-
where up well, the fact is, nobody seems to
know where they are. w e asked Horace Bent,
and he said they were working along the overland
telegraph line towards Carpentaria, lassoolng wild
horses on the road, for the Indian market. We
don’t believe him. (3.) Inquire at Railway station.
(3.) Can't say. Nobody can—at least, nobody ac-
quainted with legislative procedure among us
would attempt to guoss when a particular Bill
would be likely to pass.... “ Jumbuok”: Of course
you might reach Temora by going round Fiji, but
the betting is against you “ Orangeman ”: Your
question is ill-natured, and we decline to answer
it. We may say, however, that Mr. John
Davies, during his home trip, did not request a
special audience with the Pope, and did not stop
and bless himself on the Applan Way when the
Host was carried past him. Besides, he never
went home “Woollahra”: Fashions change
out your way in everything but sewers. And they
change, too—for the worse. Yes. Between the
Paddington Barracks and Ocean-street enough
smells could be sampled in one trip to start a
Chinese camp. Can we suggest a remedy ?
No; we can’t. Leastways, we noticed some
pretty strong lamp-posts and tree-limbs there, and
—the councillors live handy —“J.J.”: Thanks.. .
“Masher”: In the best circles it is not now con-
sidered chic to expectorate in your hands when
asking a lady to dance. Common people who work
for a living still do it, but only when at work. Do
not check them when you observe it. Complica-
tions might arise. We once remonstrated with a
hodman on the subject. We were all right again
in a few months ... “ Student ”: When you’ve suc-
ceeded in multiplying 3s. (id. by half-a-crown, try
your hand at dividing a paving-stone by a brick.
The process is just as easy—“ Tyro”; So you
want to know what the “differential calculus”
Is. Ask us something hard. The differential
calculus is a thing used at Cambridge Univer-
sity for changing promising lads into idiots.
It seldom fails. Ninlan Melville was never at
Cambridge....“ Stranger”: The quickest way to
Wavcrley is by running. If not in a hurry, walk.
If time is no object, take a tram—“ Miles ’ : It was
at Tel-el-Kebir the Duke of Connaught distin-
guished himself. His dare-devil pluck gave great
satisfaction to the army and the nation. He was
nearly four hours without a sandwich and nar-
rowly escaped a spent shot, which a private of the
Guards chased and caught in his bearskin before it
reached the tree behind which—but enough.


For close confinement, want of air, seden-
tary habits and brain and nerve tire, trust In Hop
Bitters. Read.
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Affections of the Liver, Bilious Disorders,
Sick Headache, &c., are thoroughly cured by Dr.
Jayne’s Sanative Pills. Acting as a general laxa-
tive, they remove all irritating and foecal matter
from the bowels, gradually change the vitiated
secretions of the stomach and liver, and restore
these organs to a healthy condition. To be had of
all Druggists and Storekeepers: and wholesale by
Elliott Bros., Pltt-street, Sydney.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 Pitt-strbet, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
&o. No commission charged for buying. Agents
for the sale or purchase on commission of Pure-
bred Stock,*
Bass, the great brewer, has left this vale of
beers. He has faded from sight. He is gone. Ho
Is dead. His friends had hops of him till tho last.
But In vain. He vanished like the foam on his
own brew. It is a pity that he did not think of
taking something down with him to Dives, in a
square bottle. He should have done so. It is a
long time, now, since James Hennessy arrived#
Funny sort of logic have some prisoners.
There was a man charged at the Newtown Police
Court a few days ago with presenting a valueless
eheque. He pleade i, in defence, that he had lost
two fingers in 'a brick machine at one time. On
the same principle, if he had lost his teeth in a
tannery, chewing hide*, we suppose he would have
considered himself sufficiently excused for killing
a local preacher.
The Echo gives some particulars about an
extraordinary thought-reader who has appeared
In Paris lately. It says he can read a thought in
the brains ol any man. He gave specimens of his
power in the newspaper offices. If he ever came
here his reputation would break up over the
Echo. He could never read a thought in the
brains of any of that staff. Not unless he brought
one and put it in.
Much holy indignation was areused in
Kllmore (Vic.) last week by a religious maniac
who wanted to preach from the pulpit of the
Wesleyan Church. We are in our sinful blindness
unable to see where the reason of this comes in.
We think his madness was in his favour. It was a
proof that he had some religion, however erratic.
Most preachers have none at ail. Their mental
disease is moneymania.
Sport in the colonies is becoming gradually
more and more scientific, and, of course, has less
of the element of chance in it than formerly. So
Pat Clifford found out the other day. He was
going to row in an outrigger race on the lake, and
was a strong favourite. His boat was in a shed
adjoining the house. He awoke in the night to
Hod the shed burning and the boat a memory of
the past. This Is the way to make sporting take
rank in the exact sciences.
There was only one man drunk In Port
Macquarie on Queen’s Birthday. And he was a
blackfellow. And this is latter-day loyalty I Eheu
fug aces ! We knew the time when any man who
could stand up without the aid of a lamp-post
would be knocked down by the first man who
could struggle up and keep his feet long enough
tip do it. This comes of Radicalism and the perni-
cious doctrines of Andy Lynch.
Flower, the statue-orator, is nearly played
out-run to seed, in fact. But he still goes on
haranguing. Let us write him out a little verse of
advice, which he oan copy out on the cleanest part
of his cuff ;
The crowd are getting sick of you
Who urge each haggard elf
To cry for work. Get down, and do
Some honest work yourself I
Here is an ingenuous ad. by the “redoubt
able:”—“An old man, painter by trade, stoops
somewhat, whereabouts wanted. Bulletin Hotel.
We know that painter well. We knew him when
he was blithe and gay. Then they made him a
Buffalo, and that be“gatta” stoop. Now he is
missing I Being made City Marshal of the Sacred
Weed was too much for him. For his whereabouts,
Richmond, search the bosom of the mystic deep.
Mr. Hayter, C.M.G-., the Government Sta-
tist of Victoria, states that there is a larger per-
centage of criminals in New South Wales than in
any other of the Australian colonies. We think
this is very ungenerous on the part of Mr. Hayter.
If there is a larger number of C.M.G.’s in this
colony than in any of tho others, Mr. Hayter
should have been the last to lay a malicious stress
upon the fact. It is not our fault; it is our punisa-
ment.
The Young Borough Council have asked
the Government for money for the purpose of
filling in the holes made by the diggers there. A
pretty modest request, this! We shall next expect
to hear of them asking the Government to send
them up wool enough to plug their ears during the
cold weather. Why don’t the townspeople take
the matter in their own hands, and fill up the holes
themselves? If they do, we should suggest they
do it with their town councillors.
A Chinaman fell down on the pavement
and split his Celestial nose open at Newcastle, last
week. Some larrikins had been teasing him, and
he had slipped while running after them. It was
great fun. What business has a person with slant
eyes and shaven head to go about in a free coun-
try like this ? It would be rather a joke if a group
of our own larrikins got into Canton, and a similar
argument were applied to them. But it is good
for Chinamen to be dead, anyhow.
A Northern paper is surprised that “at
the local Police Court, during the week, two in-
ebriates and a user of indecent language were
fined twenty shillings with the alternative of
twenty-four hours, and a third drunk was charged
with a caution.”—
Pooh 1 little vagaries like these
We’re seen, sirs, by the dozen;
It ain’t because a man’s a beak
That he can’t have a—cousin.
Things are lively in the new School of Arts
at Gunnedah, and there appears to be a good deal
of dignity infused into tho quarterly meetings.
A Mr. Cohen was proposed by Mr. Roberts for
President. This was seconded by a Mr. Bacon;
upon which a malcontent named Brook ejaculated
“Seconded by Bacon— Pork-quoi ?” On being re-
monstrated with subsequently, he stated that he
had caught it through sleeping in Paree at the
Hotel de Loover on the same entresol as Chris,
Dr. Moloney, of Melbourne, believes in the
classicality of tho young Australian’s form. The
Melbourne correspondent of the B.M. Herald
doesn’t. The latter says.—“ More vile faces it
would be impossible to see In any city in the world
than are to be seen in Melbourne any evening
from 9 o’clock till 13.” The two observers possibly
use different glasses. Granny’s man, mayhap,
uses the looking-glass too much—hence the un-
pleasant reflection upon the prevailing type of
face.
The unemployed sent to Wagga, were a
nice lot. We should hardly like to say a sample
lot. Thirteen of them were sent to do some road-
work at the rate of six shillings per chain. After
doing ninepennyworth of work a man, the whole
crowd cleared out—taking a week’s rations with
them, which had been supplied by the credulous
contractor. We shall probably see them grace-
fully disposed around the statue again, one of
these days. It is hard to see the bone and sinew of
the land expected to work, when they want rest—
and tobacco—and beer—and Flowery speeches.
Mr. Smith’s—Mr. R. Burdett Smith’s—proposed Centennial Exhibition. A Suggestion.
[MR. R. B. SMITH to move.-(1.) That, in the opinion of this House, preliminary steps should be taken to celobrate the Centenary of the Colony of New South Wales by na International Exhibition of such
a character that, independently of the exhibits that may be expected from other parts of the world, the progress of Australian Colonization may be illustrated by the fullest possible display of
resonrces of the Australasian Colonies. (2.) That, as the earliest publicity of a Centennial Exhibition is essontial to its success, it is desirable that, with as little delsy as possible, a Royal Commission
be appointed, with the necessary powers, to give full effect to the suggested undertaking. (3.) That the forgoing resolutions be communiceted by address to his Excellency the Governor.]


Personal Items
Baker Pasha has, says an English paper,
been gazetted out of the Egyptian Army, and re-
turns to the police. What’s it all about this time ?
The editor of the Beoa Gazette it seems,
by an ad. in the Rum, is named “ W. H. Braine ”
W e have read the Beoa Gazette, but we suppose,
on these occasions, the Braine was away hunting
up the Cockle’s pills ad.
Bryce, Native Minister (N.Z.), has aban-
doned the idea of going to England to prosecute
Rusden criminally for libel. He will bring a civil
action for ten “thou.,” his evidence teing taken
by commission and sent to London.
Cham-fu, the Chinese General in command
at Hong-hoa, seems to lie a sert of Rostopchin.
Just as the latter destroyed Moscow so that it
should not harbour Napoleon’s troops, Cham-fu
burnt Hong-hoa. When M. Cranaud entered the
town, everything was burnt. As may be Imagined,
he sacri-A a few.
Miss Louise Pomeroy met with an accident
at the Newmarket Theatre, Portland, Oregon, and
this disaster is headed in Saturday’s Herald,
“ Miss Pomeroy’s Mishap.” Let’s see—but what’s
the good of going into abtruse calculations ? It’s
evident that—not that wo—at the same time being
married ours . But, we forget I—only an ankle
—“ nothing more.”
When Chief Justice Way, of Adelaide,
enters the Court now, the usher sings out, at the
top of his voice. “ Let all present stand up to re-
ceive his Honor the Chief Justice.” Way is about
fourj feet high, of singularly plebeian features, a
bachelor, and, in love with his cooking. No one
has, as yet, had the hardihood to insinuate that he
is in love with bis cook 1
The Queen of Hanover has nearly as many
front names Irs the First King of Siam. Hers are
Alexandrlna Maria Wilhelmina Catherine Char-
lotte Theresa Henrietta Louisa Paulina Elizabeth
Frederica, Georglana: his are Phra Bat Somdetch
Phra Paramlndr MahaChulalong-Korn Phra Chula
Chom Klao Yu Hua. It’s a toss-up whose name-
givers were the bigger fools.
A London journal states that when Sir H. B.
Locn was in the Chinese war, he was, with a Times’
correspondent, “taken prisoner, and subjected to
the most diabolical treatment, which killed the
correspondent, and the English troops coming to
the rescue, found Sir Henry tied up to a tree in a
most barbarous manner. Sir Henry was many
years recovering from the shook. ”
The venerable Emperor of Germany— alias
Pious Billy—ls almost fallen into dotage. His wife,
Augusta, is T 3, and has long been slighted by her
pious spouse, who preferred ballet-girls, and only
used the missus as a sort dummy to be the
nominal recipient ofTartufflan telegrams during
the Invasion of France, in which a good deal of
credit was given to God for every bloody slaughter
which occurred.
The Queen won’t allow divorced women,
even when respectably re-married, to appear at
Court. Her own mother-in-law was a divorced
woman before the Queen married her son. Prinoo
Albert’s mother was divorced ffrom his father in
1836, ro-marrled to Count Poelzlg, and died in 1831.
The Count was five years her junior, and has just
died. In the life of the Prince Consort, the re-
marriage of his mother was not mentioned.
“ There is a rumour that Mr. Reginald
Bloxome, who is now sojourning in Inverell, is
shortly to return to his old position in the house-
hold of His Excellency, Mr. Unwin, the new P.S.,
having accepted a more lucrative appointment.”—
The girls can’t longer miss the face
That fascinates, that knocks ’em;
And so back to his old, old place
From some back-blocks comes Bloxome.
Prince Edward of Saxe-Wiemar, the
Queen’s cousin-cousin-Gerraan, one might say—
has just been transferred from the command at
Portsmouth to that at Dublin. These posts are
the prizes of English military life, and independent
English papers comment vigorously on the favour-
itism which gives them to a man who has seen no
hard service and shown no military talent, while
war-worn and distinguished veterans are neg-
lected.
George W. Peck has sold four hundred
thousand copies of his “ Bad Boy ” book, and takes
in three hundred or four hundred dollars a week
from the companies playing the “Bad Boy”
dramas. He is worth five hundred thousand dol-
lars, has purchased one hundred thousand dollars’
worth of real estate, erected a number of hand-
some residences to rent, and bought a lifty-thou-
sand-dollar house for himself. Now he is building
a yacht to sail on the interior Wisconsin lakes.
Hurroo, boys, th’ foigbt’s begun! Speak-
ing of grandoleman Thady O’Kane, the beggar
opposite on the Charters Towers Herald deli-
cately observes: “ The editor of the N. Miner had
better take out a patent for senility. There is no
fool like an old one, and very few to equal him at
that. Unfortunately, there is no prize at the com-
ing show for jackasses, or no doubt his bray would
secure him a good place amongst his asinine com-
patriots." Now, then, Thady, sphit an yer shtick
and wade in.
An assistant bailiff of the R.M. Court,
Oamaru, N.Z., named Grant, is heir to the Earldom
of Sealleld, in Scotland. His father, an old farmer,
has just succeeded to the title and estates. Young
Grant’s experience as a bum-bailiff wi;l be very
serviceable to him when he succeeds in his turn,
and goes in for evictions on his own account.
Henry George will find it hard lines to cope
with a landlord like the future Bari, who will know
by practical experience all the ins and outs of the
Jaw of distraint for rent.
When Prince Semailoff died, his widow
erected a splendid monument to his memory in
P6re la ChaPo, where she dally adjourned to do a
weep. It so happened that the grave of the famous
actress, Mademoiselle Mars, adjoined, and here
Count de Mornay, her admirer, used to come to do
his diurnal wail. As a natural result, from weep-
ing and wailing, the pair turned to billing and
cooing, and ere long buried their sorrows in the
sweets of a honeymoon. Their marriage was liter-
ally a very grave affair, indeed.
Dicker Hamilton is going to bring out a
sporting paper in Sydney. This is the old buffer
who wanted to make a speech at the Foley light,
and nearly fell a victim to popular fury. He be-
gan—“ You will all, no doubt, have read in the
Melbourne Sportsman ,” and then he was
“biffed” out of the ring with curious celerity.
We wish old grandfather a good time with his
venture, but we are inclined to think that though
he is a game old cook, he is very much, just now,
in the position of the young bear in the legend.
All his troubles are before him.
“Short Speech ” Fremlin says the Duke of
Northumberland (Mr. Lusoombe) couldn’t tell a
E release from a bandicoot. Mr. Fremlin could,
ccause he has studied the latter carefully—ln the
Museum. And, if, we are not mistaken, it was
that hon. gentleim in who sent along the following
prize contribution : “ How to get rid of the rabbit
plague. The bacJc blocks are composed of sand
and rabbits. Take » sieve and sift the back blocks;
the rabbits will remain. These you can place in a
bag which you cu rry for the purpose. Then bring
the rabbits home and eat them.”
David Belasct), author of “ May Blossom,”
the latest success Pul play at New York, is beard-
less, brushes his b sj,ir up like a girl, nervous and
ambitious, It is a lieged his habits of work must i
result in his being a physical wreck soon; for he
invariably works all night, eating a heavy meal at
midnight, and gets but fitful rest in the day. On
the first night of his play, “ May Blossom,” he was
so nervous that for a time he refused to appear.
When dragged from the scenes, he bowed mechani-
cally, changed colour, and fainted on the stage.
He had had scarcely a bite, and no sleep, for two
days.
Mr. Deakin, the modest man of the talented
Coalition (Vic.), entered into himself with special
designs, one night last week, at the Collins-street
Athenaeum. He fossicked about for some little
time, and then bobbed out with a junk of genuine
truth. It looked for a while as if ho were going to
put it back again. But he didn’t. He threw it up,
and off it went dancing in luminous lines before a
dazzled audience. Here it is:—“A man who writes
possesses greater power than a man who makes
speeches.” That is true; true always and every-
where—except, perhaps, when it is Mr. Deakin
who speaks.
Alfred remarks: “J. L. (sic) Byron used to
say, as well as write, go ;d things.” We are sorry
to hear “J. L. Byron” is dead Who was he, any-
how ? After all, Alf. is versatile in the matter of
Invention, i' e always thought so, since we saw
him make a hockey ball out of one of the oid
man’s shoes, and then fashion two sticks out of a
paling belonging to an obnoxious neighbour who
didn’t take the Town and Country Jernle. At
that time Chris., who is now driven by a man In
cotton-gloves and a Bob-Sawyer band round his
cadle, was president of the hopscotch club in
Kent-street. We don’t recollect what Frank was,
at that lime. He was always so disguised in oil.
Truly pathetic were the words of Brother
Coppin, the other night, in the Melbourne Pro-
testant Hall. His memory carried him back to the
early days when, supple of limb and strong of arm
and hard of head, he was fit for the feats of the
brave. All the terrors of midnight failed to daunt
him. His noble brow beamed ruddily above the
liquor, love, and laughter, the mirth, money, and
music of the gaslit hours. But only his memory
carried him there. His legs could not do it, and
cannot do it ever again. ‘‘My mental ability is
now as good as ever,” he sighed, “ but I regret to
say my limbs prevent me from attending social
gatherings.” Ach! Why didn’t the fine old man’s
legs hold out ?
Harry Levien got quite an ovation at
Quirlndi, re the rape case. He preceded Abbott,
and “knew all about it” lu a very short time.
Then Harry was cheered vigorously, and every-
body who had a clothes-line hung something up
in his honour. It was noticed, however, that the
banners upon the outward lines of the prosecutrix
were conspicuous by their absence. Subsequently,
on herifamily arriving in a spring-cart, the popu-
lace turned out and heaved boulders at them.
Then, two days afterwards, Mr. Abbott arrives,
and looks the prosecutrix up. A testimonial is to
be presented to Harry. We don’t know what it is
going to be, but might suggest a volume on juris-
prudence closely touching the question of “ tail
grey ” and the “kip,” with the H’s printed in red
ink.
A London paper states that the Duke ol
Beaufort Invited Connie Gilchrist to stay at Bad-
minton for a few days. The Duchess, with her
usual good nature and confiding ways, drove the
Gaiety gem over to the meet. John Bull’s wife
and daughters in that part of the country are ask-
ing what it all means! The point Is, that Connie
Gilchrist has for years been a kept woman. But
then, she is a nobleman’s kept woman. That
makes all the difference. Apropos—the late Czar’s
wench, Princess Dolgoroukl, was a “Maid of
Honour " from 1867 to 1871, Her first bastard was
born in 1869. So that she seems to have been ap-
Eolnted a Maid of Honour as soon as she sold her
onour and ceased to be a maid.
Hanlan had a good “find ” the other day.
He was taking a quiet pull up the Yarra when he
found a corpse knocking up against his craft in
the unceremonious way peculiar to stiff-’uns.
People seem to lose all their politeness when they
get dead. (This is a nasty dig at our old aunt, who
had the bad taste to cut us off with a shilling in
her blessed will, but no matter.) The Champion
was mindful of the usages of civilized society,
and although his strange friend had tried to up-
set the boat, he returned good for evil by taking
measures to put the body in a dry place. After
calling the attention of some people on the bank
to the crowded state of the river, he stayed to see
the “ moist, unpleasant body ” safely landed before
Sroceeding on his journey. We wouldn’t have
one as much for our aunt—after the will was
read.
Joseph Symes, the Freethought lecturer
and writer, has forwarded us the first number of
the Liberator, a publication he Intends to force
into circulation by advocating atheism and the
destruction of Christianity. As a rule, attempts
of this kind have been made by a few brawling
Idiots, who are better described as free from
thought. This, however, promises well. We have
none of the usual slang-whanging at everything
with a view to terrifying our grandmothers, but a
fair, open, well-worded, manly challenge to dis-
cuss the foundations of religion without bitterness
or abuse. Joseph challenges Moorhouse to meet
him in his own columns or on tbe platform, and
give a reason for the faith that is In him; and the
challenge is so temperately worded, and so pub-
licly, that it is difficult to see how the Bishop can
ignore him.
It seems that Ballington Booth, who is the
second son of the General, is really coming out
next month. Ballington is a feeble creature, who,
on getting married lately, has grown, If possible,
more feeble still. He is described as being of the
complexion of the muffin, and his utterances
simply comprise all that he can remember of the
old man’s harangues. At his wedding, enough was
subscribed to keep him out of the workhouse for
life. We decline to express an opinion as to whether
or not enough was subscribed to keep him out of a
lunatic asylum. It is rumoured that when in
Sydney, Bal. is to be the guest of W, J. Foster, the
rejected Puritan of Newtown. If so, won’t there
just be a run on the Marrickvllle crumpets!
Miss Alice Rees is, we are real pleased to
say, thoroughly well once more, her recent visit
to salubrious Sydney (this Is gall for the Cabbage
Garden) having evidently finished the work of
restoration. Miss Rees is making arrangements
for a concert which will take pi ice in Melbourne
in a week or two, and to which additional interest
will be added, as she will shortly afterwards change
her laurel wreath for one of orange blossoms on
the occasion of her marriage with HerrVogrioh,
Now, then, Messieurs of the Lledertafel, sound
your A, and let us have the Lohengrin chant,
‘‘Hall the Bride” And here’s our own little
epithalamium, per favour of that giddy boy,
Catullus:—
Some of our Holy Roman friends of the
Fenian persuasion have been congratulating them-
selves on having secured an Irish Archbishop as
successor to the two late saintly Saxons. Well,
we shall see how much Ireland will gain bythe
victory. Dr. Moran is an Irishman, just as Wel-
lington was an Irishman—by accident—and he
cares just as much for his country as did that
eminent Captain. He was brought up in Rome,
drank in a hatred of revolutionists with holy
fervour, and had his prejudices strengthened by
residence with his uncle, the late Cardinal Cullen,
whose corpse was hissed in the streets of Dunlin,
as it passed to Glasnovin In 1878. Cardinal Cullen
was* one of the kidney whose gospel was that
“ hell was not hot enough nor eternity long
enough” to punish an Irish rebel. This accounts for
the feeling of the 1 rlsh bourgeoisie, whose capital
h»d been desolated by the power which the first
Irish Cardinal worshipped. Returning to Dr.
Moran, it may be said that “ ho is a chip of the old
block,” full of the Ultramontane aggressiveness,
minus the far-seeing craft of his uncle. Four
years ago his pastorals teemed with furious de-
nunciations of the leaders of the Land League,
and all their works and pomps ; and it was not
until the wave of agrarian agitation had almost
swept his priests from their feet that he became
amenable to reason. He yielded just when it was
evident that if the priests did not take their stand
on the Land League platform* immediately, the
“ Holy Church ” would suffer. And, even then, it
was plain his heart was not in the cause, for when
a priest made a slip, and spoke too strongly about
the sufferings of his flock, the Episcopal flat went
forth, and neither youth, nor age, nor provocation
stood in the way of suspension and disgrace. 1 his
statement is not made lightly, nor without proof.
Instance the case of Rev. Michael Cody, of far-
famed Mullenavat, County Kilkenny, and Father
Feehan. of Rathdowney, in Que<m s County, both
of whom suffered suspension because of Govern-
merit prosecutions. And tho former has not yet
been reinstated. All of which goes to show, we
think, that those who agitated so violently for an
‘‘lrish Archbishop” won’t take much for their
pains.
Frank Warden was recently up at New-
castle. It seems that he has charitably decided
not to burst up the Penal department, and is going
to join the Harmy up there. Frank is not, sooth
to say, looking blooming. His feet seem to have
grown much larger, and his hat much smaller, and
there is a wide oasis of flannel shirt intervening
between the bottom of his vest and the band of
his pants. We had some conversation with Frank,
In the bar of the Ship Inn, during which ho an-
nounced to us his resolution to be “shaved.’
Perhaps he meant “saved;” but it is hard to say
for he wanted both saving and shaving in an equa l
degree. Frank, however, takes a lot of wiping
out. Let’s see—how loug?—but it’s none of our
business, anyhow.
Hesse’s Grand Duke, who has a strain of
the same blood that circulated in our Second
George, has) even broader ideas than those of that
illustrious monarch on the subject of consoling his
widowed hours. Queen Caroline, as she lay a-
dying, advised George to marry again. “Non
said that pious defender of the Anglican faith,
“ j'aurai dee mditr&sses.” “Cela n'cmpeche pas,”
moaned his moribund consort. George’s “ non ”
evinced a certain sort of delicacy. Louis of Hesse
would have a second wife and his mistress as well
—at all events, would have the mistress (de bene
Hesse) while waiting for the second wife—but it
seems he was too open about his intentions, so
poor Beatrice’s chances of leading apes in hell are
considerably enhanced.
“ Chinese ” Gordon, in his spare time, took
a special interest in children. He used to gather
In “City Arabs” from the gutter, clothe, and
teach them, and then get a berth for them on
board some vessel. He followed them mentally
throughout their careers, and had a map of the
world hung up in his room with pins stuck all over
It showing the vessels’ courses in which his several
pr<»ttsg(sB were placed. The gutter children were
in the habit of scrawling with chalk on walls and
fences the suggestive tribute “God bless the
Kernel I” He was also continually impoverishing
himself by his generosity to the old and feeble.
The gold medal presented him by the Empress of
China at one time disappeared, and years after-
wards it turned out that he had erased the inscrip-
tion, sold it for £lO. and sent the money as an an-
onymous subscription for the relief of the Cotton
Famine sufferers.
At Kilmore (Vic.) resides a young woman
named Emma Bish, and a very unlucky young
woman she has been. Emma, in fact, is the fond
mother of no less than three illegitimate children
(each child boasting its own peculiar papa), and
circumstances have compelled Emma to bring her
family to the local “Court” to be dealt with.
Quietly and uncomplaingly.’apparently, did Emma
contrive to support the first, and even the second
little stranger, but number three was too many
for her. It was the last straw, and its advent was
the signal for the lady to emerge from her modest
retirement to explain her maternal troubles to the
local Bench. It is satisfactory to know that the
two eldest children have been packed off to the
Industrial Schools until their sixteenth summer,
that “ baby” is getting on very nicely indeed, and
that the three papas have been summoned to sup-
port the several pledges of affection bestowed
upon them by the too, too affectionate Miss Bish.
One of the most remarkable oases of the
abuse of the British Lunacy Laws took nlace in
1858. Lady Lytton, the wife of the novelist, had
lived apart from her husband for years. In 1858
she appeared at Hertford during an election at
which Sir Edward Bulwer Lytton was a candidate,
and denounced him. After this she went to Taun-
ton. There she was visited by a Dr. Thompson,
who represented himself as a friend of her husband,
and Invited her to come to his home in London,
where all monetary matters in dispute would be
amicably settled. On going there, she found her
husband, two doctors, and some stalwart attend-
ants. The “ doctors ” were an obscure apothecary
and an equally obscurn practitioner. On their and
her husband’s certificate she was hurried off to an
asylum. After being retained there for about
three weeks, during which the Lunacy Commis-
sioners visited her without taking any action, she
was flna'ly released, owing to the newspapers
having taken up her case. »
The Marquis of Normanby, late Governor
of Victoria, condescended to stop and look at
Niagara Falls when passing through America,
homeward bound. Press accounts ot the visit up
to date are very meagre, but it is to be presumed
that the Falls hung its head in awe while in the
presence of the mighty Marquis. Some people
can’t see anything wonderful about Niagara. We
knew an Irishman who, uoon seeing the Falls for
the first time, was asked, “ Ain’t it wonderful,
Pat?” “Wonderful be d d,” was the, reply;
“ shure the wather can’t help itself. It musht
tumble when it comes to a place loike that.” What
we have been afraid of all the time, however, was
that the Marquis might disapprove of the Falls, or
suggest some change or Improvement teat the
Maker of them would feel compelled to make, out
of courtesy to the venerable scion of nobility. And
we didn’t want the Falls changed. The last time
we saw them they seemed to us to be a perfect
work of Nature, and wc do hope to that the
Marquis was pleased with them.
In the early days of Ballarat, when man
wanted little here below, but wanted that little
hot and strong, the present hon. and thrlce-gallant
Majah Smith was an auctioneer, and on one occa-
sion was selling off a library. Amongst the books
was a copy ot Canon Barham's “ Ingoldsby Le-
gends,” and, after struggling hard with 'the title,
the local George Bobbins put the volume up in
these words: “Now, gentlemen, this is a book 1
can recommend to all you miners. It is written
by an American gentleman named Leg Ends and it
is called *ln Gold.’ The author of the delightful
work is an old Californian miner of great experi-
ence, and, after describing the hardships and toils
of a digger's life, winds up by depicting the joy-
ous, rouseabout times that were held in the camp
when the hardy, sunburnt miners struck it rich at
last, and were, as he poetically puts the case, in
Gold.’ Now, gentlemen, start it right a-way; what
shall I say for Mr. Leg End’s ‘ln Gold? And
yet that auctioneer afterwards became Minister
for Education during the Berry regime. Times
change, and we all change with them.
The Duke of Buecleuch died at his palace,
Dalkeith, on the 16th April. During one of the
Keform riots in London in 1831, he got a severe
kick in the stomach from a gentle democrat,
while engaged in the laudable work of saving tne
Bishop of London from martyrdom at the hands
of his living parishioners, The Duke survived the
blow, but his left kidney was affected, and tne
consequence was he remained a bitter Tory all nis
life. Ho was a good landlord, and treated nis
tenants well as ,nng as they voted the Bucoleucn
ticket. By means of faggot votes he raised a
crowd of needy supporters, who helped him to get
his cwn sons and other Tory friends and relatives
returned as members of Parliament for Midio
thian and the central districts of Scotland. It was
to break up this monopoly of misrepresentation
in its stronghold that Mr. Gladstone undertooK
and carried out triumphantly the celebrated[Mid-
lothian campaign four years ago. The Duke was
obstinate and unreasonable in many of his views.
He refused to the last to grant sites for the tree
Church; distilleries and breweries, however, nour
ished on his estates.
Fancy! Solange Navaro was god-mothered
by Georges Sand—” George ’’ Sand, in the Gospel
according to St. Alfred,—and went to school at
Jersey along with Lily Langtry. We-were m
Jersey at that time ourselyes-a feeble creature in
a blue merino blouse and frfiled drawers that were
always coming down with startling 8U^ e P n ® S olite
occasions when we were playing tip-cot ar o
society. In those days. Andr6o and Solange Navaro
were the Misses Vickery, and their dad was
cate-General of the Island. At that time, to , t
only fame that the fair Miss Lily Le Breton
attained to was that of being ra ther dirtmG d
possible, than the rest of the push, betraying
fiercer appetite for hard-bake, and be * a £i\f s ea yye
adept at stealing marbles than the rest ot us- ' g
have lost count as to what we have come t
called, since wo have all been married so many
times since we played knuckle : down
What we wanted to say, though, is, tb ,at; we stum
have thought that a lady who had fora go
mother the celebrated Madame Dudevan a ld
went to the same school as Mrs. Langtry S “, (3U
have been provided for for ever. But IFlsn
Why, once we knew a whilome pr°t6g6e of d
the fourth (of glorious memory) who kept, m ne
latter days, a coffee-stall. So, you seel
Lord Aylesford’s ranch house at
Springs, in Texas, has been burnt to the groun
Only a little bedding and a few articlesi of weai
L were saved; but the Earls greatest regre
ARCHBISHOP MORAN.
AD ALICIA.
Euterpe’s daughter I Cease to weep,
For Love shall watch and falsehood sleep;
The sun at dawn that lifts his gaze
From ocean, and the world surveys,
Shall never rise, shall never shine
On beauties that shall rival thine.
As round the husband elm entwine
The tendrils of the clinging vine,
Thus will he woo thee still to place
Round him a fondling close embrace.
Come, gentle bride—the waning day
Rebukes thy lingering, cold delay.
Hail. Hymen! hail! this glad e’en-tide;
With songs, with pceans greet the bride.


loss of twenty valuable guns, which he had used
In his hunting expeditions in various parts of the
world, one of these guns was formerly the pro-
perty of Aylesford’s great crony, the Prince of
Wales, and was carried by him during the famous
tiger-hunt in India, where the Earl was his com-
panion. The “Juage,” as the .Cow-boys call his
Lordship, bore his loss philosophically; and with
his brother Dan slept in the open air, on the lee-
ward side of a barn, the following night. In the
morning he rode into Big Springs and obtained
permission to occupy a vacant ranch house be-
longing to his nearest neighbour. Lord Aylesford
gets £lO,OOO a year from the trustees who are
nursing his estates for his creditors and himself.
That is to say that out of the earnings of a number
of industrious Englishmen, that sum and a lot more
have to go to pay for the past vagaries and present
freaks of a thorough sauna. Aylesturd, like some
other distinguished persons we know, says he
“nevah reads those papahsl” Thus his new and
sympathetic friends, .the Cow-boys, are debarred
from conversation rejecting his divorced wife
and her illegitimate son by His Grace the Duke of
Marlborough. But, whatever you do, don’t
change things, or “fly in the face of Providence”
by objecting to his favourites.
What singular devices even holy men will
resort to when a point is to be gained I There’s
Archbishop Croke, for instance, who is no more
nor less than an uncanonlzed saint, in Irish esti-
mation. When Dr. Croke was president of St.
Col man’s College, Eermoy, he concocted a plan
which was worthy of Fouch<s himself. In many of
the one-horse seminaries in Ireland (amongst
which Fermoy stands out brightly) ecclesiastical
students must adhere to a regimen which breaks
down many constitutions. It happened, during Dr.
Croke’s presidency of Fermoy, that periodical
raids were made on the college pantry, the locks
and bolts proving useless before the ingenuity
of the starving students. On one occasion, what
is known as a “print” of butter was partially
eaten away, but enough remained to convince Dr
Cooke that the consumer hal lost a front tooth.
Borrowing the idea of the Dervish, he sat down to
think which of the inhabitants of the college wes
minus a masticator. His suspicious centred upon
five lads of abnormally lean aspect, and he took
occasion to get into conversation with the suspects
during the following day. At length he selected
one from the number, a tall, lank chap, trom
Kerry, and inviting him into the refectory, pro-
duced the butter, and in tones of thunder charged
him with the otfenee. The student’s countenance
told the tale which his tongue refused to utter.
He got 20 minutes to clear eut, and that was the
last of the “grub ” raids at St. Colman’s.
Thunder! Just as we thought Bob Whit-
worth was getting used to his halo, and had ac-
quired the high C on his trumpet, lo I he bobs up
again. He, dear old boy, tackles that novel subject,
“Melbourne by Night,” and but. bless his old
gums, hear him“ Even as I ruminate, comes forth
from a grimy-looking passage, Aspasia, clad in
frowsy blue and red satin, her scarlet feather awry,
her dirty hands ungloved, her whole appearance
Indicative of low breeding and the vain desire of
tawdry finery; the poor creature who, raised it
may be, for her pure animal good looks, from the
gutter, to the gutter must, ere long, return.”
Then this thought strikes him: “ She is somebody’s
child.” His ruminations next take a domestic
turn;—“l have a daughter of my own, a little
blue-eyed golden-haired fairy, that—if—but, no,
I dare pursue this line of thought no longer.’ 5
We’ve shed our little tear, so now we will tell
anent that little golden-haired fairy our little tale.
One day a lady called on “R.P.” at the mansion in
which ne resides, and, having closed the front
door with the clothes-line loop which is now
historic, and taken the kitten out of the cold
porridge, she proceeded to the white drawing-
room, where she found Robert writing immortal
stories for the Supplements, and the heroine of
this par. building a cake grotto in the marble fire-
place. Then, holding up a pear, the lady said to
the aurlcomous infant, “ What does ‘F ’ stand
for ?” “ Pa,” replied the golden-topped darling
readily, “What does ‘P’ stand for, again?”
asked the lady. The child looked doubtfully
towards her father, and murmured “ Pewter.”
The dominant party in America have
nominated the Hon. James G. Blaine Senior United
States Senator, from the State of Maine, for the
presidency. So meagre has been the information
cabled to the colonial press that nothing is known
as to who were the other men before the Conven-
tion, but as Senator Blaine is the leader of one
wing of the Republican Party, and ex-Senator
Conkling is the leader of the other wing, while
bsth men hate each other with a holy hate, it is
pretty safe to assume that Mr. Blaine did not
obtain the nomination without a struggle. Sena-
tor Blaine’s name has been proposed in three
different republican conventions. In 1876 Colonel
R. G. Ingersoll brought it before the Cincinnati
Convention in one of the most eloquent speeches
hn ever made. He called Blaine “The Plumed
Knight of Maine,” and right well did the gifted
politician deserve the title, for he did valiant
service for his country in fighting the rebel claims
that Southern members undertook to foist upon
Congress and secure their passage. Senator Blaine
is a lawyer by profession, but for years he has been
either in the Senate or the Lower House, and once
was the Speaker of the latter. He was the firm
and favourite friend of the late President Garfield,
and it was through Garfield’s snubbing of Senator
Conkling that the two great leaders came to be at
loggerheads. Senator Blaine’s election to the Pre-
sidency is a foregone conclusion, unless the Demo-
crats nominate a much stronger man than they
have placed in the field for 25 years, and that is
hardly possible, since General Handcock, one of
the purest and brightest men of that party, was
defeated by a largo majority by General Garfield,
in 1880. The election docs not take place until
November next.
It is singular that Taglioni and Fanny Ells-
ler, the two greatest dancers of the day when the
ballet was a big institution, should die at about the
same time. Taglioni died about two months ago,
and Ellsler then lay in a dying condition. By the
way. it is not commonly known that Fanny Ellsler
was indirectly the cause of the early death of the
Duke of Reichstadt, son of the Great Napolenn
and his second wife, Marle-Loulse of Austria. The
youth was treated by the Court of Austria very
much as a monstrosity, half tiger-ape and half man,
would be by an ordinary family. That the eldest
daughter of a Hapsburg Emperor should have
married a Corsican upstart was regarded as a
fearful Indignity and almost an unnatural crime,
although the Emperor of Austria was glad to agree
to the marriage when Napoleon ordered one of his
daughters to be served up on the half-shell. After
Napoleon’s fall, his son and heir was brought up in
Austria, and studiously kept in Ignorance of his
father’s history, greatness, and talent. He himself
gave great promise of strategical genius and mili-
tary tastes—ail of which was sedulously discour-
aged. His mother wasn’t any good. She cared
nothing for him—rather disliked him, as a sort of
memento of her prostitution for State purposes,
and had a lover among her suite who was, probably,
her second husband. The poor lad had a melancholy
life of it. He was always depressed by the sense of
being treated as a sort of misfortune. He was,
however, permitted to attend the theatre—there
saw and was smitten by Ellsler. Napoleon’s eon
though he was, he was just like any other “calf”
where a woman was concerned. He loafed around,
looking up at her chamber window at night, got
chilled, cold ensued, inflammation, decline, and
death. And there was no Leopold business about
his death, we may tell you. There wasn’t aoour-
tier or toady in Christendom who felt like dilating
on the young Napoleon's abilities.
A similarity of tastes, exhibited by two
great men, is not surprising. Here is ex-President
of the United States, Mr. Hayes, who has quite a
vice-regai proclivity for fowls, and as a nest-
detector is probably unsurpassed even by our own
Gussy. Tnere is, perhaps, no man in any country
who is a more successful hunter of hen’s eggs than
Mr. Hayes. A hen cannot deceive him. He seems
to know instinctively when a hen has put up a job
to go off somewhere to a retired spot and “steal
her nest,” as the saying is, and he watches the hen.
He does not follow the hen directly, as some less as-
tute man would do, and thus arouse the suspicions
of the deceptive fowl, but seems to go off the other
way, though his eye is upon that hen. It is said to
be an interesting sight to see a h«n wandering off
down among the bushes, clucking and digging for
worms, as though she had no thought of deceiv-
ing her benefactor, and Mr, Hayes walking the
other way, whistling a popular air, and not ap-
pearing to notice the hen. Suddenly the hen
disappears and goes under a bush and lays an egg.
It is then that Mr. Hayes gives play to the massive
brain that he has constantly concealed about his
person. He makes no memorandum, but keeps in
his head the location of every such nest. Some
men would go right to the hen, catch her in the
act, and accuse her to her face of duplicity and
double dealing ; but Mr. Hayes is not that kind of
a man. When the hen comes back to the hen-
house he does not show any signs of chagrin to
the hen—does not look at her as much as to say,
“ I am on to your scheme, old lady”—but treats
her just the same as any other hen, thus disarming
her of all suspicion that her little plot is dis-
covered. But the next day, after the miserable
hen has laid her second egg and gone away, the ex-
President goes to the nest and takes one of the
eggs, and so on each day—the hen, who is not good
at mathematics, thinking she is laying up treasures
where neither moth, nor rust, nor ex-Presidents
doth corrupt. After a hen has laid a dozen or so
eggs thus, and begins to think of setting, she looks
at the result of her labours, and decides that it is
the work of an incendiary and gives up the job.
Now that Henniker Heaton is going f orCan-
terbury, people ought to read “ Our Mutual
Fiiend” and “Phineas Finn” again. In the
former book, there is a Mr. Veneering, who Is
“ brought in ” for Pocket Breeches, and in the
latter some graphic sketches are given of how the
Parliamentary agents in Vlotora-street “work
the oracle.” Since Henniker has developed such
an abnormal extent of knocker, we have bejmn to
gradually feel a respect for him which we diu not
formerly entertain. Still, we admit that Henniker
could take a kicking more gracefully than any
man—and make more capital out of it-since
James Gordon Bennett. We have known Hen-
niker for a long time, and though he was a con-
firmed and Industrious lobbyist, there is no elec-
torate in this colony for which a fifteen days’
corpse couldn’t beat him. When he was
editing at Parramatta the populace couldn't
stand him. His black tie and shiny banger lashed
them into fury. But when assaulted, once on his
legs again, and some of the mud out of his eye, he
would, in an Injured tone, demand—an apology ?
Oh, dear no I—a subscription! On the Evening
News, in those days, when a man who had a linen
collar, and two buttons on the back of his coat,
was darkly suspected by the rest of being a fire-
man on the quiet, Henniker was equally un-
popular. At hu tarly stage, Alfred took his
chaneys out of Heaton's yard, and he was black-
balled mercilessly for Chris’s tip-cat club. Heaton
hardly wrote anything in the papers. The old
man sent him one day to do a dashing critique on
Alt’s Bond. Next day Henniker came back with
about 250 slips, and a centrifugal smile. The
old gentleman took the copy, and read the
commencement out loud. It was as follows:
“Dear friends, have you ever seen a bonded
store?” Then he pitched the whole lot in
the fire. His department was to go round for the
buggy, and collect the “answers to correspon-
dents.” Sometimes wags used to poke “borack”
at him, and one afternoon he was heard gravely
enquiring of East way who it was that first adopted
spoon-bait for minnows. When on the road,
Henniker always made a point of camping with
the boss-cockies, and where feed was scarce a
weird rumour went about that a big bundle of
“exchanges” was wont to reach him at every
township. In the Cooper affair, as it turned out,
Heaton was not to blame, and the affray would not
have occurred had poor old Walter not been—like
his stick—loaded. The barmaid, by the way, that
Henniker hid behind, was one of the biggest
women to be seen anywhere; and she protected
all of Henniker but his hat and his beseeching
palms. His contest for Young was a great iark.
Henniker was in favour of everything, and the
average was three eggs to every point, and he had
to employ, so they say, a boy on put pose to take
the centipedes out of his boots. Cavalcades met
him outside every town with cheers, while the
inhabitants mostly received him with derision and
potatoes. His addresses were usually something
in this style:—"Electors of Jaoko-Jacko; though
not continuously resident (uproar) amongst you
(egg), it is my proud (confusion, and a voice:
‘ Who hid under the gal’s petticuts ? ’) privilege to
(potato) address the most enlightened (tlour-bag),
discriminating (turnip) body ofpeople that” (yells,
confusion, and a fight—during which the landlord
closed up his hotel, and Henniker retired gloomily
Inside, wiping his face on his coat-tail.) Well, he s
a candidate for the British House of Commons
now, and goes to Court. We can just imagine,
when stepping into the presence oi royalty, how
he envies the under-butler.
* • •
Old Pollard died the other day up at
Charters Towers. He was the father of eighteen
children, who all sang in “ Pinafore.” And he
died!.. .Gilhooly always described himself to his
gurl ”as being' on the railway staff. And when
it turned up that he was only a restaurant waiter,
he justified himself on the ground that he was a
Erofessional “plate-layer” Captain Dpnstan,
oss of the big copper mine, elected first Mayor or
Cobar. We hope the Cap. will fit—The Austral-
asian testimonial to Parnell tots up to two
“thou.” thus made up: Victoria £909, N.S.W.
£645, New Zealand £207, Queensland £125, South
Australia £7O, Tasmania £44.
* * *
Prince Louis of Battenburg bas been
created a Knight of the Bath.... Princess Victoria
of Hesse sprained her ankle trying to jump over a
coal-scuttle. Somebody should send Bob Smith
that coal-scuttle to wear on his watch chain Sir
Thomas Brassey is mentioned as likely to be one
among the next batch of peers The Queen con-
fers bronze tokens on persons whom she desires
privately to distinguish. The Hon. Alex. Yorke,
ex-equerry to Prince Leopold, has one. He re-
commended himself to his Sovereign by “his im-
personation of a fat woman, accompanied by a
50ng.”....T0 a political turn-coat, who had taunted
Abe Lincoln with his youth, he replied Live
long, or die young, I would rather die now than,
like the gentleman, change my politics, and, simul-
taneously with the change, receive an office worth
3000 dols. per year, and then have to erect a light-
ning-rod over my house to protect a guilty con-
science from an cffended G0d.”... “I will not listen
to his music,” said Victor Hugo ©f Wagner, the
other day; “he has spoken evil of France.”
“ Mrs. Partington ” (B. P. Shlllaber) is 70 years old,
lives in Chelsea, Mass., and still writes a little for
the press The late Madame Anna Bishop was
quite a polyglot bit of humanity. She could
warble in about a dozen languages... .In February
died D. Harrwitz, one of the greatest of chess-
£ layers. Thirty years ago, when he defeated
owonthal, he had, perhaps, no superior; but in
1858, marvellous Paul Morphy defeated him, and it
almost broke his heart. He abandoned chess, and
retired to a little Austrian village, and there he
died. Chess drove Morphy mad What is fame ?
Captain Waddell, who commanded the famous
Confederate cruiser Shenandoah, and afterwards
the Pacific Mail Steamship Company’s steamer,
State of California, which he lost, has just been
elected captain of an oyster police boat on the
Chesapeake. And Field-Marshal .Bellsarlo had to
hire a sore-eyed, bob-tailed dog to lead him round
to beg for a crust of bread. This world wants
making over again—and differently.
The Maori King on his
Travels.
AN EARL TO ENTERTAIN HIM.
HIGH JINKS FOR HIS MAJESTY.
It is some years ago since King Tawhlao first
expressed a desire to pay England a visit for the
purpose of holding- a diplomatic conversation with
the Queen on subjects of mutual Interest* and at
last he has got his wish. To anyone who knows
the Maori Character there Is something monstrously
funny about the proceeding. Tawhlao, It
should be known. Is a most dignified protentate.
This is a serious business with him. He still claims
the title of king, how belt his followers are an In-
significant band when all told; and he will, no
doubt, meet Her Majesty Queen Victoria, ot
Great Britain and Ireland, Empress of India, as
becomes one exalted personage on meeting an-
other “ in the same situation of life.”
HIS DEPARTURE.
The departure from his kingdom, in company
with his suite of attendants, was, it appears, slightly
marred in effect by a circumstance that aave him
great offence. A mass meeting was held in the
Waikato, about 60 miles out ot Auckland city, to
fMe the king and bid him farewell his copper-
coloured subjects contributing largely to pay tne
expenses of his trip; and there was a great feast
and an imposing ceremony of the Maori character.
It appears from a late number of the N.Z. Herald
that alter ail had bet n arranged (save one import-
ant item) and the affecting farewells had been said
amid a perfect flood of tears-(our Maori friends
can cry on the shortest notice)—it was suddenly
discovered that there was not a berth left for
Tawhiao on the mail steamer. This was a crusher,
and the king sat him down on the royal mat at the
entrance to the royal whare, and nursed his wrath.
HE MAKES A DISCOVERY.
But even at this pass he had a consolation, so the
Herald informs us. It seems he was suffering
from acute rheumatism at the time. By the ad-
vice of the Messrs. Hunter he tried St. Jacobs Oil;
and, as he was almost Immediately relieved from
pain, his good humeur was restored, and he waited
with resignation for the next steamer. It came m
due course, and the King “ steamed ” away for the
mother country via Australia. Of his visit to this
colony nothing need be said here, as the local press
pretty well advertised His Majesty's movements
while he remained in this city. It may be men-
tioned, however, that as far as could be ascertained
since he took
THE BLUE RIBBON,
Tawhia, continued to be a most faithful follower
of total abstinence; a fact which rebounds to his
credit, especially iis his countrymen are extremely
partial to spirits; or, as they call it “waipero,”
strong water. If you ask a Maori whether he likes
rum (?) he will cheerfully respond: “ Kapaite wai-
pero I porangi ?” and will then prefer a mild re-
quest that you should “shout I’ It is to be hoped
that Tawhiao will stick to the good resolution
which Sir George Grey induced him to form. It
may also be mentioned that the King before leav-
ing New Zealand purchased several bottles of St.
Jacobs Oil, so greatly had it Impressed him, and
like Mr. Peter Magnus with his hatbox, he was
more particular in looking after that parcel of oil
than all the rest of his luggage, including his pipe,
tobacco, and
HIS JEWS’ HARP,
which the writer may explain has come to be re-
garded as the national music of the Maories. You
will see girls, boys, and old men and women sitting
by the hour together playing this instrument, the
tongue of which they cover at the end with a knob
of sealing-wax, which has the effect of Imparting
softness to the sound produced, and increasing its
volume. He is not
A LINGUIST.
As before stated, King Tawhiao is accompanied
by an interpreter, whose services he could scarcely
dispense with, for he knows very little English.
There are hundreds of Maories who speak excel-
lent English. They learn rapidly, and their
superiority in mathematics to the average Euro-
pean scholars in the schools has become almost
proverbial.
But Tawhiao has been, until quite lately, most
exclusive. He could never be enticed from hia
seclusion In the close Maori country in the
Waikato. He had little or no communication
with Europeans, except, perhaps, an occasional
pakeha Maori—which means a degraded white man
who makes his home with the natives, living like
them as to habits, and being a kind of serf as to
position. These men, of course, speak the Maori
language only when among the natives. iSo that
Tawhiao had little chance to learn English.
TAWHIAO EN ROUTE.
He is now on his way to England, and we can
easily imagine that he and his attendant knights,
or chiefs, will find themselves much astonished at
a groat deal they see on the way. When they
arrive they will, doubtless, have a good deal more
to astonish them. One thing is tolerably certain *
that if they stay long in the country they will
bring back very lively notions of the weather.
Your northern Maori does not like the cold,
THE GUEST OF AN EARL I
In the meantime, we learn by cable, that the
Maori envoys are to be entertained or be the
guests of the Earl of Chichester, the president of
the London Missionary Society. Te gods I But
this is Indeed distinction for the monarch whose
sceptre is the shadow of a shade. It is very ques-
tionable, however, if old Tawhiao could be made
to understand that in this reception he is being
honoured to any great extent. That one chief
should entertain another is only right and proper.
And yet what would some of our money-grubbing
democrats, who prate of “the glorious privilege
of being independent what would some of these
give to shake the hand of an earl, or (God forgive
us I) steal his pocket handkerchief to show their
friends in triumph ?
TAWHIAO AND THE QUEEN.
beg Her Majesty’s pardon for putting the
Maori s name first; but the reverse order would
not be euphonious. The meeting will, no doubt,
be an affecting sight. The “ Field of the Cloth of
Gold over again, and the shade of King Harry
looking on approvingly.
What result King Tawhiao expects from the
visit, further than th© enlargement of his mind, is
a mystery which lies hidden within his dusky
bosom.
There is little doubt that the natives of New
Zealand have suffered many grievances at the
hands of their white brothers. Tney have been
DUPED AND ROBBED,
and cheated right, left, and centre. Their ignor-
ance in the early days was taken advantage of, and
many of them sold their birthright for loss value
than ‘ a mess of pottage.” But it is questionable
whether much goodwill be effected by the present
mission.
The Government of New Zealand are now doing
what they can to ameliorate the condition of the
Maori population ; but the task is by no means
easy. Their numbers are fast decreasing, chiefly
owing to exposure, and the effects following upon
it. This, of course, can be remedied to a large
extent, and may best be done by disseminating
among: them a knowledge of the treatment neces-
sary to preserve health. Rheumatism has become
a common complaint in Maondom, and a too
* n aloohol has done much harm.
... this in view, it is to be hoped that the natives
will follow
KING TAWHIAO’S EXAMPLE.
Ho was open to conviction on the subject of the
drink question, and took the badge of temperance
—an example which, the writer is happy to learn
from a reliable source, a number of his subjects in
New Zealand have followed.
In the same way, most probably, the important
discovery made by their King will become known
to the Maories, as to the valuable cure for a dis-
tressing and dangerous complaint so common
among them. There are
MAORI NEWSPAPERS
in New Zealand, and these, no doubt, will be the
means of Introducing St. Jacobs Oil to theinaotice.
seeing that the enterprising proprietors of this
valuable remedy take every legitimate opportu-
nity of freely advertising the great specific.
AMONG THE EUROPEANS
of New Zealand, St. Jacobs Oil is regarded as a
great blessing. It has been weighed in the balance
of public opinion, and pronounced genuine It
has been put through the crucible of individual
experience, and proved true gold. Rheumatics
and kindred complaints are not only painful, but
extremely dangerous, if allowed ti go unchecked
A dreadful fever, most deadly in its effects, is one'
of the results to be dreaded from repeated attacks
of tho malady. The writer has had
SAD EXPERIENCE
in his own family of these dangers. Few persona
recover trom the third attack of rneumatic fever
Yet, by adopting proper treatment in time, the
danger may be minimised. And here we can see
the value of a remedy and preventive like St
Jacobs Oil. It is a national safeguard.
THE TELEGRAM.
In reference to the benefit which King Tawhiao
derived from St. Jacobs Oil, and to which we have
referred in the course of this article, the New
Zealand Herald of March 29, 1884, publishes the
following telegram Irom it own correspondent-
•Mercer, Friday.—Tawkiao appears to have been
Buttering Irom rheumatism lately, and is quite
pleased at the effect produced by St. Jacobs Oil.
administered to him bv the Messrs. Hunter Tol
day h is much better.”
commenting on the above, the Herald, a lead-
ing New Zealand paper, in its leading columns
Bays:- Tawhiao s stay at Mercer has fntroducea
him to the blessings of St. Jacobs Oil, administered
by Messrs. Hunter. We are glad to hear that his
rheumatism has been relieved, and the enterpris-
ing proprletois of St. Jacobs Oil must feel grateful
for the advertisement which we have been the
means of affording them.”
ANXIOUS LOVER: “DOES YOUR SISTER, ANNIE, EVER SAY ANYTHING NICE ABOUT
ME, SISSY?”
SISSY: “OH, YES, SHE SAID IF YOU HAD ROCKERS ON YOUR SHOES, THEY’D MAKE
SUCH NICE CRADLES FOR AMY’S DOLL.”


LOCH-DHU V.O. Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS. CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMKOCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed.
KIRKER, GREEN & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgow.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pltt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide:
J. Gr. Hartoorow,
470 GEORGE STREET, opposite Central Fruit Markets.
JUST OPENED, per b.b. Yaletta, 8 cases Gauntlet Gloves, In all the Latest Styles and Shades;
a Large Consignment of Ladies’ and Children’s HOSIERY, in all the winter shades, consisting of
Cashmere, Merino, and Striped Cotton Hose.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATIONS.—OPENING of our NEW MILLINERY SHOW ROOMS
MILLINERY—A choice stock to select from,
MILLINERY—A large stock to select from.
MILLINERY—A new stock to select from.
MILLINERY—For the coming season.
MILLINERY—For the winter.
FLOWERS—In great variety.
FEATHERS—In all qualities.
STRAWb—In all new shapes.
Having engaged a flrst-olass French and English Milliner, and selected our stock from the Paris
and London markets, we are now prepared to introduce the Latest and Most Fashionable Goods In the
above line. A large stock of FANCY GOODS, consisting of Sunshades, Fans, Purses, Morocco, Russia,
and Seal Bags, Workbaskets, Boots, Shoes, &c.
Note Address—J. G. HARBOROW, 470 George Street, opposite Centra Fruit Markets.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS.
Offices : 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NBSDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Tovjjptlle every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, BundrYr%J, and Port Maokay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG EDINA KONOOWARRA
BARRABOOL GABO LEURA
BURWAH BALMAIN MORETON
CHEVIOT GEELONG EODONDO
DERWENT KEILAWAREA YOU YANQS.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
48 King Street, Sydney.
RM. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
260 GEORGE STREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London.
Professional lllrectory.
HIBCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F, E. Hiscocks..
i. artds om,
TRAGEDIAN and COMEDIAN.
“ One of the most versatile actors on the stage.”
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE,
Every Evening. Special Engagement.
Mr. Glover’s Tour will commence immediately
on the conclusion of his engagement with Signor
Maieronl, supported by one of the best companies
In the colonies. See future advertisements.
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
} Messrs. Wileiamson, Garner and Mttbgbove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
England’s greatest Actress,
MISS GENEVIEVE WARD,
and the Popular London Actor,
MR. W. VERNON.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING,
the original play, in three acts, by F. C. Grove and
Herman Merivale, „
FORGET ME NOT 1 FORGET ME NOT I
FORGET ME NOT 1 FORGET MB NOT I
GRAND PIANO from NICHOLSON’S,
PRICES AS USUAL.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4.
NO FREE LIST.
Business Manager for Miss Ward, G. AGRATI.
Gaiety theatre.
Lessee Mr. John Bennett.
Sub-lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
The greatest success ever achieved in Sydney.
Hundred’s turned away nightly.
Crowded and Enthusiastic Houses Nightly greet
and vociferously applaud,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN
(the famous young Irish Comedian), in his world-
renowed impersonation of
THE WIDOW O’BRIEN,
in the farcical, musical and whimsical oddity,
“ FUN ON THE BRISTOL,”
which will be repeated
THIS EVENING,
and every evening until further notice.
FREE LIST ENTIRELY SUSPENDED.
Box office at Nicholson’s, 336 George-street.
Prices: Orchestra Chairs, 55.; Stalls, 35.; Upper
Circle, 35.; Galley, Is. „
Manager for “Fun on the Bristol” Company, H.
J. Whittington. Representative of John F.
Sheridan, W. Hughes. Business Manager for Mr.
Wybert Reeve, G. A. Coleman.
Academy of music.
Lessee and Manager—Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
The Evening Fashionable and Popular resort,
HISCOCKS' FEDERAL MINSTRELS
and Speciality Union, together with the MAR-
VELLOUS GIRARDS, every Evening, at 8.
The most successful, amusing and refined Enter-
tainment in the Citv.
Tremendous success of the local absurdity, called
A TRIP TO MANLV.
Admission—Fauteuils, 4s. ; Reserved seats, 3s. ;
Second seats, 35.; Balcony, la.
S
UNDAY AFTERNO
GRAND PROMENADE CONCERT.
O
N
Sir Joseph Banks Pavilion and Pleasure Ground,
Botany.
Success still attends these Concerts.
Thousands of people pass a pleasant afternoon
every Sunday.
The following talented Artists will appear NEXT
SUNDAY in popular Ballads:—
Mr. Percy Shannon
Mr. J. Gordon
Mr. J. Barnett
Signor Gustavo Bellini
Miss Alice Johns
Miss Marion Sanders.
KOPFF and AUSTIN’S
Renowned String Band will also perform Solos
and Classical Selections.
Trams leave Bridge-street at 3, 3.30, 3.40,3, 3.30,
3 *The* entertainment will commence at 3.30 and
terminate at 5 punctually. The semi-grand piano-
forte from the establishment of Nicholson and Co.
Tickets obtainable at Botany.
COTTIER’S PEOPLES’ CONCERTS (od.). Pro-
testant Hall, Castlereagh-street, every Satur-
day and Monday night. K. Cottier, Manager.
COTTIER’S PEOPLES CONCERTS (6d.) An
unparrelleled instance of Popularity attained
hy this gigantic organisation.
MOTTIER’B PEOPLE’S CONCERTS (6d.) Every-
l j one should visit this happy combination of
iumour and Pathos. Admission, 6d.; Reserved
’hairs, Is. Open 7.15, conclude 10.
MERCANTILE ROWING CLUB BALL
THE NINTH ANNUAL BALL,
EXHIBITION BUILDING,
jgf THURSDAY, JULY 3rd, .SI
Under the patronage and in the presence of
His Worship the Mayor,
JOHN HARDIB, ESQ.,
and
THE MERCHANTS OF SYDNEY.
EVENING DRESS.
lefreshments by Mr Thos. Crlpps. Decorations
by Messrs. Sale and Dare. Band: The Young
Australian.
Stewards :
lon. F. A. Wright
lon. W. J. Trlckett
lon. G. R. Dibbs
lon. Wm. Laidley
Hr P. A. Jennings
laptaln J. G. Barron
lari S ibl, Esq.
lharles Pearce, Esq.
leorge Munro, Esq.
, B. Holdsworth. Esq.
C. J. Roberts, Esq. M.L.A.
G. N. Griffiths, Esq. M.L.A.
John See, Esq. M.L.A.
John Harris, Esq. M.L.A.
R. G. Vallack. Esq.
John Hinohliffe, Esq.
T. R. Allt, Rsq.
R. Fowler, Esq.
R. Sands, Esq.
Committee :
ilessrs. J. Blackman. R. E. Brindley, F. J. Bull,
F. C. Boulton, E. J. Barron, D. Dennis, P.
Dowling, F. R. Isler, F. Ives, J. Mannix. M. J.
Fitzgerald, D. Fletcher. J. H. Smart, F. Thorpe,
H. B. Wilkinson, O. H. Wilkinson.
Tickets : Double, 305.; Gentlemen. 305.; Ladies,
2b. sd ; may be obtained from the Stewards and
nembers of the Committee.
D. MURRAY, I Joint
A. BLACKBTONE, (Hon Secs.
R. A. KEDDIE, Hon. Treasurer.
uiimimiiy
m
M-
liii
it
■
A
i
m
W
7%
%
:
1"! Ml ;,.
View of the Extensive Brewery of ANHEUSER-BUSCH, St. Louis, U.S.A.
TTTjra TiwTm wns awarded a GOLD MEDAL at the Amsterdam Exhibition against 78 competitors ; also, GOLD MEDALS at the Paris, London, and
H where it was pronounced to be the BEST LAGAR BEER brewed in the world. We will guarantee it free from all
Iterationsand is highly recommended bythe medical faculty to invalids who require a pure and strengthening tonic. Sold by all wholesale Wine
and Spirit Merchants throughout Australia.
Sole Agents-J. W. BUTCHER & CO., Sydney.
■—iMW i I'lgiSi
m.
llt
stab
SHE
♦
11
II
11
11
ALLT&e
y A
'A
II
5S
; r *s
irii
)i nil
/////
• y;
ALLT Si CO.’S Itw Wins nil Suit Stores nil Cellars,
. , , CHARLOTTE PLACE, SYDNEY.
fessrs. TKIIMAnTHANBURY, BUXTON fc CG., I Messrs. A. O. MEUKOW & CO.,
Brewers, Purton-on-Trent; I „ „ , n . , D t.- ™ o
„ JOHN ROBERTSON & SONS, I ~ B. &J. BURKE ®
Agents for . , ~ .. trirAu/ x, m * \ Messrs. MUKZER & SPANN,
Ccsrnac : I Bordeaux, (tarets ;
The Due do Montebello Champagne, S/Ay, France;
„ oum, | « “Ught SparKiing Trent A.e; I The Cnarei.to \ meyurd Proprietors, Charent®.
London Agents: Messrs. AethXJR Allt & Co., Wormwood Chamoo.s, Wormwood-street, L.U


The Autophone!
The oriental gold company
have been appointed Australian Agents for
this, the Climax of Musical Invention. Call and
see them.
George Street,
Just Opposite the Entrance to the Markets.
The Autophone is a wonderful little Instrument,
which, while it weighs less then three pounds, has
the lungs of a full-sized parlour organ, and exe-
cutes its music with absolute precision and perfect
effect.
It has twenty-two reeds, plays In three keys, and
all the parts of most difficult music.
On it a child can correctly play, without instruc-
tion, any of its music, which at present consists of
over 300 selections from Hymns, Oratorios, Operas,
Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, Popular Songs, &o. It
is best adapted to the kind of music which Suits an
organ best, in which chords predominate, but also
has wonderful power in executing very lively
pieces.
Price p 30s.
0* NEW MUSIC NOW ARRIVED.
WHERE DO YOU PURCHASE YOUR
JEWELLERY ?
Why, from the ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY
of course, where they have the Most Fashionable
Articles at a fraction of the price of those made
from the sterling metal. So good is the imitation,
that none but an expert can detect the difference.
See our List of Prices, as follows, and note that
ANY ARTICLE WILL BE SENT POST FREE,
AND AT OUR RISK
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 7s. 6d
each
Gent’s richly-chased, engraved, and plain Solitaire
and Link Suites, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., and 12s. Od
per set
Same as above, only Half Suites. Bs., 45., ss. per set
Very latest American patent-spring Solitaire
Suites. 10s. per set
Gent's Oriental Gold Alberts, 6s. 6d. and 10s. each
Gent’s handsome Scarf Pins, 3s. 6d., 65., Bs., 7s. 6d.,
?s , and 10s. each
Gent’s elegant Seals, real stones, 7s. 6d., Bs., and 10s.
each
Gent's elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs., 10s.
and 12s. 6d. each
Gent’s very latest American 18-carat rolled Gold
Alberts (made specially to our order), 17s. 6d.,
20s , 255.. 275. od,, and 80s. each
Choice Brooch and Earrings Suites, from 10s. to 36 a.
Richly-chased & engraved Bracelets, 12s. 6d. to 30s.
Elegant Brooches, beautiful patterns, ss. to 255.
Ladles’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, 7s. 6d.,
Bs. 6d., 108.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassells, 155., 205., and 255. each
Handsome jewelled Earrings, 65., 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d.,
and 10s. pair ; Ladies’ choice Necklets, from
12s. 6d. to 305.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles, 7s. to
15s. pair; Ladies’ handsome Cloak Clasps,
15s. to 355.; Ladies’ very best American 18 carat
rolled gold Cbatalalnes. 305.; Ladies’ choice
Lockets and Necklets, 20s. to 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 155., and 20s.
No. 1.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 4 8
No. 2.
Same as above, except that this watch la
patent keyless £2 10 0
No. 3.
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 17 6
No. 4.
Same as above, except that this watch Is
patent keyless £3 2 8
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and Jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
No. 5.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert . £4 10 0
No. 6.
Ditto Ditto, extra jewelled, and compen-
sation balance, with Oriental Gold
Albert ..£5 5 0
No. 7.
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
No. 8.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance ..£560
No. 9.
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £8 3 0
No. 10.
Ditto Ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
No. 11.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £5 5 0
No. 12.
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade £6 6 6
No. 13.
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
fnll jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of Ann the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— lf the articles do net
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this Is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, wf
will return the money, deducting only the trifie
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will return the
money for the articles not kept. Every watch
sold by us will be rated and accompanied by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st, Sydney, op. Markefs
WONDERS OF THE AGE.
Why is it so many people are never satisfied ?
Their homes are marvels of comfort and luxury,
friends are generous and affectionate ; they are
educated and refined, capable, not only of enjoy-
ing, but of imparting happiness to others; yet
they are dissatisfied, miserable, and, really without
intending to do so, make others miserable. Their
blood is impure, they have taken a heavy cold, or
they are bilious. A few doses of Emil Frese’s
Hamburg Tea would remove all obstructions, and
enable them to enjoy, with renewed zest, the plea-
sures they are now compelled to forego.
FOR THE GUIDANCE OF OTHERS.
Glenmore Road, Paddington,
14th January, 1884,
Gentlemen, —Some few weeks since I was so
severely affected with indigestion as to render my
rising each morning a matter of difficulty and
pain on account of severe pains in the back; and
it had just become necessary for me to take a holi-
day from my work, for the performance of which
I was by no means fit, when a friend mentioned to
me the benefit he derived from the use of Ham-
burg Tea. In the hope of getting some relief, I
used it myself, the result being that I was myself
in three or four days, and have not suffered since.
My friends have advised me to write this for the
guidance of others, and you are at liberty to make
what use you please of this.
Fours,
John Kelly.
Messrs. Elliott Bros., Sydney.
The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This Is es
peclally true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many Imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B.,
and in every way trying to induce suffering in-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H, B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. B., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hep ” or “Hops” were used in
a way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “ Hop ” or
‘ Hops” in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or counter-
feits. Beware of thorn. Touch none of them. Use
nothing but genuine American Mop Bitters, with
a bunch or cluster of green Hops on the white
label, and Dr. Soule’s name blown in the glass.
Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chemists are
warned against dealing in imitations or counter-
feits.
Williams' Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
The greatest appetizer, stomach, blood
and liver regulator on earth—Hop Bitters. Look
for and read.
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quick complete cure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
Druggists. Moses. Moss & Co.. Genera. Agents.
There is nothing known better calculated
to invigorate the constitution, than Wolfe’s
Schnapps; it braces the nerves, tones the func-
tions,and sets the machinery of the frame in healthy
operation.
Murray and Lanman’s Florida Water
Is one of the surest and speediest of cures for
every form of nervousness. It relieves headache
when other applications completely fail. It reln-
vlgorates the fatigued and overtaxed body, and
it Imparts force and buoyancy to the mental
powers.
Eat and Live.—Marshall’s Tonic Nervine
creates Healthy Appetite, cures Indigestion,
strengthens the nerves and muscular system ;
nourishing and giving new vigour to the entire
human organisation. Wholesale at Messrs Elliott
Bros., Prosser, Hoflnung, Feldhelm, Precious, and
the proprietors Marshall Brothers, 104 and 10(5
Market-street, Sydney.
“ White River, W.T., Oct. 21, 1883.—Dr. J
C. Ayer and Co.—Gentlemen,—My wife suffered
for over 20 years with rheumatism in her hips and
legs. On reading your almanac she positively
believed that your Sarsaparilla would cure her.
She has taken four bottles, and is now as well as
ever she was in her life. I feel it my duty to send
you my sincere thanks.—C. Enoblorn.”
In the southern window of Hordern Bros.’
(211 Pitt-street, only) establishment is to be seen a
most magnificent display of stylish and novel ball-
dresses. They have been inspected and admired
by thousands, and the subjoined short description
or some of them will, no doubt, be of great interest
to those of our fair readers who have not had the
opportunity to examine these elegant costumes.
One of the first to attract notice is the Eau de
Nil, composed of sea-green cashmere, prettily
draped with broche of mixed colours: sea-green
and cream, with cream d’Anglais point lace to
correspond. This is tastefully caught up with
lilies, full puff drape at back. The bodice of this
pretty costume is of the broche of the vest shape,
opening over a full chimessette of point d’Anglals
lace; wreath, with lilies to match skirt. Victoria
white nun’s-veiling. This is an exquisite dress, of
the winding drape form, commencing on the rleht
hip, and draped with pretty folds to the left side
of skirt, where it terminates with a beautiful
Victoria Begina—soft cascades of Bretonne lace
finishing off the tastefully arranged drapes.
Beatrice Skirt and Black Lace draped over
old gold surah, tablier bands richly applicaed with
pearls, pelisse at outer edge trimmed with gold
braid, Vandyke caught up with bullion tassels
finished with Glore de Dijion Roses. Caven-
dish: Black grenadine Mary Anderson skirt, with
bunches of gold beads forming loops; these are
placed at irregular spaces on skirt, giving a very
sparkling effect. On this skirt is tastefully
arranged gold meteors, Marguerites, and maiden-
hair fern, prettily represented in gold fllligree.
Fortescce, a simple evening dress of blue nun’s-
veiling, silver Mowers, and cream lace. This skirt
is the furore form which some of our readers are
becoming so familiar with—that is, the plain
skirt flowing from the band, and caught up at
each side, as Kate Greenaway is so fond of
representing in her little milk-maid costumes.
The Marchioness of Islay: Green muslin dTndia,
Mary Anderson skirt, broche garland scarf to
match, caught in centre with a loose knot with a
chaste e old and pearl ornament. Lucelle of pale
pink cashmere, similar to the Fortescue, trimmed
with cream lace and deep cardinal roses. To any
of these charming toilettes the bodices can be
made on the shortest notice to suit our fair cus-
tomer. In all of these costumes evidence of
great taste is displayed, and Messrs. Hordern
Bros, (whose only address is 211 Pitt-street) are to
be congratulated on producing such superior
specimens of the dressmaker’s art.
A Fact Worth Knowing.— Are you suffering
with Consumption, Coughs, Severe Colds settled
on the Breast, Pneumonia, or any disease of the
Throat and Lungs ? If so, go to your Druggist
and get a bottle of Boschee’s German Syrup. The
people are going wild over Its success, and Drug-
gists all over our country are writing us of its
wonderful cures among their customers. It has
by far the largest sale of any remedy, simply
because It la of so much value in all affections of
this kind. Chronic cases quickly yield to It.
Druggists recommend It and physicians prescribe
It. If you wish to try Its superior virtue, get a
Sample Bottle for 6d. Large size bottle, 3s. 6d.
Three doses will relieve any case. Try it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Thbatrb Royal— “Forget-Me-Not” p. 8
Gaiety Theatre— “ Fun on the Bristol ” ib.
Academy of music— Federal Minstrels ib.
“ Forget Me Not ” is one of those plays to
which we never get tired going. We have seen it
several times now, and the Interest has increased
with each visit. The sparkling wit of Stephanie is
enough to captivate anyone, and the comicalities
of Mrs. Foley are of the kind that are warranted
to kill or cure on short notice. But we tell you
a good deal about Genevieve Ward this week, and
have presented her likeness on our first page. If
you have seen her, you know what a powerful
actress she is, and if you haven’t you must take
our word for it that she is above ordinary criti-
cism. We might point out a flaw or two, but we
would have to do it in French, as the English lan-
guage is not expressive enough for the description
of such subtle distinctions; and we never write
French. We don’t know how. We occasionally
drink absinthe in French, but we never write that
way. In fact, we never write at all. We hire an-
other fellow to do it for us, and then we make our
X on it and send it in. We are something like the
man who wrote out a prayer and tacked it up at
the foot of his bed. It was winter time, and he
didn’t relish spending half an hour on his knees
before retiring; so he used to Jump into bed,
glance at the prayer, and say, “Them's my senti-
ments,” pull the comforters over his head, and
sleep the sleep of a Christian.
♦ * *
We told you last week that we liked Mr.
Leltch’s impersonation of Prince Malleotti. His
Royal Highness is a peculiar character. He looks
a good deal more like a poodle than like a Prince,
and there are none of the characteristics about him
that you naturally look for in men of royal birth.
But that is the fault of the authors and not of the
actor. The lines represent a weak sort of noodle,
and, both in make up and action, Mr. Leltch
interprets them to perfection. Italian princes
have not been much like Malleotti, if we have read
history aright, and when you look at this scion of
royalty on the stage you can’t help feeling grieved
that the authors should have made such a blunder.
Stephanie (Miss Ward) takes him away from the
loving Mrs. Foley, and leads him around by the
nose until you call to mind the lines of Shakes-
peare, “ God made him, therefore lot him pass for
a man.” To assume such a rSle and not over-do
it, requires a peculiar kind of ability of which few
actors are possessed. There is always present the
inclination to throw buffoonery between the lines
and make the character a ridiculous absurdity
rather than a weak nonenity. Perhaps you don’t
know what a weak nonenity is. Well, it is a glass
of water and a toothpick in the morning when
your head is so big that you have to reach away
out beyond your shoulder to scratch it.
* * »
You know Maggie Knight. Well, she has
been especially engaged to play Alice Varney.
We don’t know why she was specially engaged,
unless it was because Annie Mayor had to go away
to Adelaide with the Silver King, and there was no
other actress in Australia disengaged whose sys-
tem could stand the wear and tear and misery of a
part like Alice Varney. Maggie seems to take to
such roles like a duck to water, or a Fenian to
whisky, and the only wonder is that she don’t lose
flesh over her worrying work.
* * * *
We dropped into the Gaiety the other night
again, because we wanted to see Grattan Riggs in
“ The Shaugraun ” before he took it off to allow
the “ Fun on the Bristol ” party to take the boards
on Monday night. The house was packed and
jammed with people, like ova in the hard-roo of a
mackerel. It was the biggest audience we had
ever seen in the Gaiety, and the performance was
well up in merit. Grattan was at his best as Con
the Shaughraun, and the people wouldn’t keep
their hands and feet still. Amongst the crowd
were the New Zealand football team, who were
there by special invitation from Mr. Riggs. And
this calls to mind an incident which very few of
the audience noticed. One of the hard kickers sat
nearly under the edge of the balcony. In the bal-
cony, right over him, was a cad who had probably
lost a few shillings in backing New South Wales
against the Maories. The footballer happened to
glance upwards, when the cad deliberately spat
down in his face. The victim said nothing. He
quietly wiped his face with his handkerchief, took
a good survey of the balcony, got up and went
out as quietly as though nothing had happened.
Presently he appeared in the balcony, called the
cad to one side, and without further ceremony
drove his nose through so that the end of it stuck
out at the back of his head. Then he returned to
his seat in the orchestra chairs, and not above a
dozen people in the house knew that a man had
been knocked out in the first round right over
their heads. It was the quietest and quickest piece
of work of the kind we have seen done since the
time we were a boy and tickled the heels of a mule
with a straw, just to see him wag his ears. But to
the p!ay.
• • •
You want to know how the different char-
acters were taken. In the first place, Grattan
Riggs’ Con was a very clever piece of acting.
You knew that before, of course, and we’re only
telling you of it now because it’s the truth, and
we like to tell the truth occasionally. We have
lied so much in our time, that the truth is like
black coffee with a little some-’at In it after a
French dinner. The audience fairly went off its
feet Grattan’s Irish face appeared at the
cottage window and surprised the mourners,
who thought he had been killed a few minutes be-
fore. For fully thi ee minutes the people wouldn’t
let the play proceed. They stamped and clapped
and laughed until our hands were blistered, and
we had a stone bruise on each heel and a corn on
our tongue.
• • •
Miss Bessie Palmer played the part of
Mrs. O’Kelly In high-heeled boots, and seemed to
lack the solid repose that belongs to Mrs. O’Kelly’s
character. She ran about the stage too much, and
made it hard work for Grattan to keep track of
her. Miss Nlta Steele, as Clare Ffolliott, was as
pretty and captivating as ever, but then we never
saw a Clare Ffolliott who wasn’t nretty and capti-
vating. And this reminds us that all the Irish
girls we ever saw on the stage had pretty faces.
We don’t) know why this should be so, for when
we were bogs of Ireland, years ago,
pretty girls were as scarce as kind-hearted land-
lords. And then they didn’t dress in fashion as
the stage “ Biddy ” does. A gunn sack, tied at
the waist with a bit of sea-weed, came nearer the
costume, if we remember aright. Mr. Stoneham’s
Corry Kinchela was rather a boisterous perform-
ance for a squireen. Stonoham is always boister-
ous, and leads you to suspect that he was born at
sea in a thunderstorm.
• * * *
“ Fun on the Bristol.” Rather a funny
name for a play, isn’t it ? Well, it’s a funny pro-
duction anyway, and you want to go to the Gaiety
and see it. We don’t remember who wrote the
play just now, and don't care to make the author’s
acquaintance ; but we laughed until we had to
unbuckle our belt to give our liver a chance.
John F. Sheridan, as the Widow O’Brien, is the
principal actor in the pLce, which hasn’t any plot
to it nor any sense in it. We don’t remember to
have seen so much nonsense strung together in a
three hour’s entertainment before. But you
forget all about plots and other legitimate things
while enjoying the singing, the comicalities, and
the antics of the actors. The scene is laid on the
Atlantic coast of America. The Bristol is a pas-
senger steamer, bound from New York to Boston.
On board the steamer are supposed to be Haverly’s
Minstrels, Rice’s Surprise Party, and several other
professional companies, who join in giving an
entertainment to the passengers. All the audience
have to do is to imagine that they are the pas-
sengers, and sit there and enjoy the fun.
* • •
Years ago, we knew Johnnie Sheridan as a
song and dance artist. And we knew, too,, that he
was clever; but we hardly expected him to trans-
form himself into a twice-married Irish widow
worth $500,000, and adopt the French name of
O’Brien. However, that is what he has done with
himself, and you can’t look at her without want-
ing to marry one of her daughters, The widow
O’Brien is a very amusing creation, and yet the
most natural in the cast. She is one of those
characters whom you know the moment you set
eyes on her. You have seen her before, or some-
body just like her, in your dreams, after you have
gone to bed on a hearty meal of scalloped oysters
and mince pie. Sheridan is probably the only man
on the boards to-day who could play such a char-
acter successfully. He is a little bit of a rooster,
to begin with, and has a voice and make-up that
exactly becomes the New York Irish society
widow. So naturally does he play the part, that,
were it not for the programmes, you would never
know that he wasnT a woman. He seems to have
made a careful study ©f all the little eccentricities
of the Irish female character, and he develops
them with a cleverness that is really suggestive of
f>otatoes and butter-milk three times a day, with a
ittle of the “ craythur ” between times, by way of
variety. In the closing scene of the second act,
Mr. Sheridan makes up as a “Tramp,” better
known in Australia as a swagloss Sundowner. His
impersonation of this character is about ns near
perfection as anything eccentric can be. The
only thing wrong about it was that the tramp
didn’t lift his right foot occasionally to scratch the
shin of his left leg. He looked that way hard
enough, and only needs to be reminded of it, no
doubt, to adopt the habit.
• • •
May Livingstone, as the coloured servant
girl, was a great favourite with the audience, and
we didn’t exactly like everything she did.
When she sat down on the foot-rest at the feet of
her young mistress, for Instance, and laid back to
laugh, her skirts flew so high that we couldn’t see
our hand before our face. We don’t think she
knew this, however, and we are only giving her a
“ pointer ” now, as they say over in America.
♦ * •
There are people in the cast that
we will tell you about next week, after
we have had time to make out who and what
they are; amongst them Billy Hughes, who is
about the size of a quart bottle stuck upon on two
matches. “ Fun on theJßristol” will be repeated at
the Gaiety until further notice.
** * *
“ Fun on the Brighton, or aTrip to Manly,”
was put on at the Academy last Saturday
night. We told you last week to look out ter it,
and the result Saturday night was that such a
throng never before crowded into the bright little
hall. Sam Keenan and Horace Bent are the prin-
cipal comedians in the farce, but the cast includes
the entire company. Is it worth seeing? Well,
now, that’s what it is; for it is fuller of rollicking
humour than anything the Minstrels have put on
since they came to Sydney. It is only a two-scene
farce—” scene onoest ” and “ scene twicest,” in the
classical language of the programmes—and when
you have seen it, you will have a suspicion that it
was got up to advertise “ Fun on the Bristol,” now
on at the Gaiety; but it wasn’t, all the same, as we
happen to know. However, when you have seen
the one you will want to see the other, and In that
way the managers are playing into each other’s
hands.
m 9 •
Mr. James South, the well-known come-
dian, was benefited at the Masonic Hall the other
evening, the affair being under the management
of Dick Thatcher. Why didn’t we tell y<su this
before, so that you could have gone? Well, the
truth Is, that nobody sent us word about it, and no
tickets. They didn’t know enough to do that, and
the result was that there were about seventy
people in the hall, and they nearly all looked like
“paper.” Mr. South has given the Sydney
public many a hearty laugh in years agone, and
wo are satisfied that the slim attendance at his
benefit was not due to a want of public apprecia-
tion half so much as to a lack of thorough adver-
tising.
** * *
Hart’s Happy Hours Company are back in
Sydney after a Northern tour, during the course
of which they have done such a business that the
bucolics have, since their departure, been looking
over their bank accounts and pondering whether
the drought or Hart’s too, too Happy Hours have
taken most money out of the district. Before
leaving, however, the company gave at Kemosey
a performance for the benefit of Captain Bussell,
who recently had his legs broken by the snapping
of the hawser of the Queen of the South, and
handed over se substantial a sum that the frac-
tured skipper had to be tied down to his bed as
long as the Harts remained in town. He wanted
to go out and break both his arms, in the hope of
their getting up another benefit. The Harts are-
hum I—Harty.
Gas for Country Towns, Homes, Stores,
Stations, Churches, Hotels, Halls, &c.
The inventive and Industrial skill of the time is
overcoming the obstacles of every condition of
life. One of the great drawbacks or inconveni-
ences of country life Is the inadequate means
of effective lighting. Well, a practical solution
of the difficulty has been arrived at and its
features are, simplicity and cheapness. Messrs.
Murray and Parkinson, Mort’s Passage, George-
street, Sydney, have just patented an appliance
for manufacturing atmospheric gas. The fea-
tures of the invention are at one striking.
The gas is made instantaneously, and yet there
is no storage of the gas; the manufacture
can be stopped the moment the lights are no
longer required; and the method of the whole
thing is so simple that a child of ten can do the
whole work of manufacture. Simply told, the
patent is this: Two round corrugated iron tanks
are placed one in the other, the lower one having
a supply of water; and the other, like an Inverted
tumbler, having a supply of air. This upper tank
is raised by a simple pulley, andas it falls, it drives
the air through a pipe down to a generator, where
it becomes mixed with gasoline, or carburrettcd,
and passes out to the burners, manufactured
gas. A simple illustration is the most effective
ere. Say there’s a house, store, or hotel re-
quiring twenty good gaslights per night per
week. The whole apparatus costs £4O. The gaso-
line, which is supplied at 4s. per gallon, is placed in
the reservoir at 6 o’clock ; the air tank is raised,
and the gas is at once ready at the burners. The
light is continued till, say, 12 at night, and the
total cost per week is a trifle over 6d. per light-
er a penny per light, per night. It is cheaper
than coal gas, and twice as clear, bright, and
steady. As to country towns, like Newcastle,
Tamworth, &o„ the cost atfer the first expen-
diture, is exactly one-half of the coal gas. The
price of a plant for six lights is £l5, and fifty lights
£7O. There is not a store, hotel, church, hall, or
private mauslon that should be content to use the
offensive and dangerous kerosene after this
invention becomes known. Its thorough adapta-
bility is proved by the fact that many ot the mer-
chant’s houses and business places in and about the
suburbs of Sydney are now lit by this patent,
and the coal gas supply cut off. Several of the
apparatus have been supplied to the Queens-
land and New South Wales plantations, several
well-known architects and Insurance office man-
agers having first inspected and then highly recom-
mended them. The whole matter is of concern to the
inland Municipal Councils. For terraces or business
houses the new appliance at once recommends it-
self for adoption. Several of the Queensland and
New South Wales country towns are getting the
appliances, the testimonials in every case being
most satisfactory. The whole apparatus can be
seen in practice, with lights burning, &c., in
George-street, Sydney. Fuller particulars can be
obtained from tne patentees, Messrs. Murray and
Parkinson, Mort’s-passage, George-street, Sydney.


PEPPER AND SALT.
A country paper, speaking of the recent
improvements made in the township in which it is
published, says: “A large, massive, and elegant
brick store is now being erected.” Now, this is
What we call fine writing. We hope to hear next
of a “ noble and imposing foot-bridge ” and a
“ stately and awe-inspiring lock-up ” to be built
there soon. The town deserves them that can
afford to support such a gorgeous and gleaming
writer. A dazzling future awaits him in the patent
medicine and land sale lines of literature—also as a
statue orator or a composer of blind men’s ditties.
But he had better not pack up his green-hide valise
and grease his copper-fasteners too soon. There is
a good deal of competition in these departments
just now.
• • •
Thus a telegram in the Evening News
“A number of gentlemen have decided to ask
Mrs. Hampson to pay a second visit to Adelaide.”
Of course you remember Mrs. Hampson was the
lady evangelist who scared the devil of irrellglon
out of thousands of people in this city, into whom,
Wa regret to say, seven worse devils have entered
Since. Wa think that if she has any of that wisdom
which is not so rare among the children of light as
they would lead us to believe, she will not accept
this Invitation. It is a plot—a conspiracy. Why
do they want her over at Adelaide? They have
bad her there before. Do they think she has more
grace on hand, or that she renews it periodically
as the eagle renews his youth ? The thing is clear.
They want her over there to stay-in the ceme-
tery.
• • •
We are not sure that this story is true
enough ts sflit the purposes of severe history.
AnyhoW, it will do for fable. In the London In-
ternational and Colonial Exhibition there are
Seven “ boortlerangers”—as the home papers with
bold felicity denotnlnate them—exhibited as speci-
mens of the Australian aborigine. And very
miserable specimens they are. The exhibitor de-
scribes them as “bloodthirsty beasts in distorted
human form, with but a glimmering of reason,
and gift of speech.” Well, on the opening day of
the Exhibition, an old gentleman jfrom the coun-
try stopped before these beasts to human form.
After surveying them for a moment, he stepped
up to one who seemed the chief, and said, with
emotion : “ Sir, you are black, but you are brave;
you are low In the scale of creation, but you are
loyal. England will not forget you for the heroic
manner in which you imperilled, your life to carry
her despatches. Mr. Heaton, permit me to shake
your hand.”
• • •
TO H. H .
“ Who scratches a Russian a Tartar will find,”
For Russian our Henniker’js more than a match—
A “Tartar” he proved while preserving his rind,
As “ Crapaud ” found out when it came to the
scratch.
(Yet we in Australia—we’ll be resigned
When Canterb’ry gives hum bis final " despatch.”)
• • •
It is a curious, though perhaps not very
profitable, thing to speculate about fate. The
other day a boy saved two children from drown-
ing in Woolloomooloo Bay. The members of
Tattersall’s Club generously presented him with a
watch and chain in recognition of the act. Now, it
is on the cards that those children may grow up to 1
become legislators, and devote themselves to
legislating bookmakers to blazes. Probably, then,,
the surviving members of Tattersall’s will wish
they had presented the noble boy with a brick—
and made the presentation from the top of a fac-
tory chimney. All these things should be taken
Into consideration by people who pine for sub-
jects to testlmonlallse. If this advice were fol- I
lowed, there would be less money spent, and less
foolishness and fraud apotheoslsed. And then
people would save their cash, and then—and then
they would have a nice little pile laid by with
which to present a testimonial, to us for our advice.
The people of Maitland will not need to
spend any money for coal this winter. A local
genius—one Wilton Hack, who has been every-
thing, from a Japanese missionary to a Jews’-
harp player—has hit upon a bold and novel plan
to save them this expenditure. He has com-
menced a series of lectures on volcanoes. This
reminds us of our own struggling days, when we
used to live in a garret and keep ourselves warm
by writing about expeditions to the Equator. But
Wilton Hack beats us. His lectures, and the usual
hell-fire sermons on Sundays, ought to make
Maitland warm enough for anything. He has only
to take care of one thing—not to make it too
warm for himself. But there is not much fear of
that. He Is too popular up there. It is only per-
sons like ourselves who combine genius with
cynicism at whom the Maitland people curl their
teeth. As well they might.
♦ ♦ *
A contemporary religious paper, speaking
of the red sunsets, says ;—“ We will not venture to
predict that this may be by way of preparation for
the final conflagration, but one thing it is safe to
say, namely, that it is well for everyone to be
ready.” With fire-engines, wo presume I We
shall read that paper with interest in future.
From the mysterious way in which it speaks, we
judge it knows more about when the end is to
come than it wishes to appear on the surface. We
want to have notice beforehand, so that we can get
in our subscriptions for the last quarter of Time
in advance. We suppose we shall have to get a
new plant when wetetart the first quarter of
Eternity, and that will require some capital. But,
after all, that consideration need not trouble us
so much. The district in which we shall start
then will contain a largo and affluent audience.
“ Warm” men, in fact.
• • •
You have heard a good deal about rum at
one time and another. Some of you, perhaps, have
even drunk it. If so, leave it off now, or don’t
consume it until you have first tried its effects
upon something which, if suddenly killed, would
not be much missed—say a passing policeman.
Hero are some facts about Bundaberg rum, get
from the rep ort of the public analyst to the muni-
cipality of Brisbane “ The rum in question was
as low as 71’3 under proof. It had a bitter, dis-
agreeable taste. I found that this was caused by
an extract made of oak wood shavings, for imita-
tion of old Jamaica rum, which was kept for years
in an oaken cask.” This a pretty dose for even a
Bundaberg stomach. But it is not all. There are
half-a-dozen kinds of mineral mixtures in it, and
among them metallic copper in the shape of a sul-
phated acetate, regarding which latter the analyst
says:—“ The presence of a copper salt is highly ob-
noxious, and added purposely to give a warmth to
the stomach, which the rum Itself, being of such a
low strength, could scarcely impart alone. Every
gill a man takes of such rum he swallows 11-sths
(sic) of a grain of sulphate of copper.” After this,
we think the most sceptical among our readers
will see the hand of a protecting Providence in the
fact that there is any population left in Queensland
at all. Still, even this is a respectable and even
nutritious beverage compared with some that is
sold in our back-blocks. It is a well-known fact
that there they make no secret of using old iron
tobacco, horse-hooves, cow-horns, rat-poison, and
even the bones of dead aboriginals to flavour their
mixture. And even then the shearers and swag-
men complain of its mildness. By these the rum
of Bundaberg would be considered hardly strong
enough as a soothing syrup for teething infants.
But the subject is too exhausting to continue. Wo
shall be satisfied if by this small paragraph we have
shown even one of our readers that rum-drinking
is ruinous both to soul and body. And now you
will please excuse us while we go out for our little
11-sths of a grain of sulphate of copper.
* * *
The Mayor of Gerringong has resigned.
Blsmark can hardly hold out much longer after
thhl. All the old masters of power are dropping
the reins. In resigning, the Mayor wrote to the
Cotmcil Clerk, and concluded—“ During the four- )
teen years we have sat together at the council
meetings you and I have never had an angry
word.’’ The inference to a vulgar mind would
immediately be that both were dumb. But we
are not vulgar. That is, not frequently vulgar.
We can hardly help being occasionally tainted by
reading our contemporaries. The inference we
arrive at from the statement of the Mayor of Ger-
ringong and his clerk is, that the former is sculp-
turesquely correct in saying that they never had
one angry word. Men of copious vocabularies
rarely do. They have about live thousand when
they begin. We suspect the Mayor of Gerringong,
once started, used to exhaust the the whole range
of anathema before he finished. And as for the
clerk—well, we think he is probably like a sea-
captain of our acquaintance, of whom his sailors
used to say that when he once got under headway
in blaspheming “he seemed to know the name of
evely angel in heaven,”
On Tuesday a man was charged (and fined
a fiver) for “ personating a N.S.W. detective.” He
wanted drinks, and a bed, and things, and he pre-
tended that he belonged to the agents de sureU of
this fascinating city. The only thing that suggests
itself, of course, to the reader is that the man who
personated a Sydney detective must have wanted
drinks and a bed very badly, indeed. It is a notice-
able fact, however, that at the Police Court he said
ho was heartily ashamed of himself. So, as he Is a
grocer, he can send us round his “sd. white” on
terms to suit purchasers.
» * •
There is a manager of an up-country bank
who has started to keep a stud-horse. All the
selectors around who do business with that bank
also—when their stock requires it—patronise the
stud-horse. This is a good enough hint for other
bank-managers. Why should not some of them
start a shaving-saloon and skittle-alley combined,
and let it be tacitly understood by each selector
wanting an advance that he would have to be
shaved and shampooed and play so many games at
skittles before he got it ?—or why should they not
go shares with every circus that passed through
the town and send polite invitations to their cus-
tomers to buy tickets ? There is no end to the
industries they might combine with banking—
except, maybe, the dim possibility of a rope’s-end.
* * •
Listen to Donald Cameron (who, by the
way, was once a member of the Victorian Parlia-
ment, till legislation became too much glory for
him, and he took to literature) on the artistic
adornment of Australian homes. He is depre-
cating the conduct of those who while they perse-
vere in amassing riches continue to live in cow-
sheds. He says their excuse is they “ have no
time for such nonsense. When they had laid by
so much, then they would think of making their
homes pleasant.” Which is very true; but this
colonial Morris must remember that many of the
people he refers to never saw a window-shutter
till they came to this country— except when they
were brought homo upon one. But his con-
cluding reflection is touchingly grotesque. “ And
so,” he says, “they will go on adding coin to coin,
and the only comfort they will know will be when
the wild flowers bloom over their graves.” Imagine
a corpse feeling comfortable because prickly pears
and geebungs wore growing out of his toe-nails I
We consider this to be a reflection upon the taste
of that large and respectable community whose
little foible it is to dwell under ground. But
perhaps they did not vote for him at one of hit
elections.
• • •
“ Subscriptions are being collected in the
district of Carcoar for a testimonial to Andy
Lynch.”—
Some sanguine person has made another
start to float the old Collaroy. It will be remem-
bered this noble vessel was wrecked at Narrabeen
about three years ago. Various attempts have
been made to get her off—all of which have re-
sulted in the speculators going to pass the even-
ing of their existence in either the Benevolent
Asylum or the madhouse. Last time we passed
that way, we were going gill-bird shooting. We
returned uninjured—but that is irrelevant.
“ Hallo,” we said to the brigand who was with us
“look at the Wesleyan Church over there I’*
“ Wesleyan Church be darned,” he replied, with
the scorn of a local resident for a foreigner,
“ that’s the Collaroy I ” There was an ancient man
living in her then who laboured under the halluci-
nation that he was the patriarch Noah, and that
the stranded vessel was the ark. The people
around used to supply him with food, and what-
ever time he did net spend in nailing on boards to
the hulk and exhorting passers-by to enter in for
the time was at hand, he utilized in fishing in the
sand. Hour after hour this ancient figure might
be seen perched on the taffrail with a dough-baited
hook at the end of a line, which he trailed along in
the sand below, and drew up vigorously now and
then when he thought he had a bite, or considered
it necessary to put on fresh bait. We forgot
became of him, but we believe he was last seen
trying to coax a cow into the ark. Nothing more
was heard of him, but the cow used to cough up
horn buttons and pieces of cloth and leather for a
month after. It is not known what the present
speculator Intends to do with her when begets her
to sea, but we have a sort of impression that he
intends to sell her to the missionaries—after ballast-
ing her with dynamite. We mention this merely
in the interests of religion. And so much for the
Collaroy.
* * ♦
There is a man missing up at Glen Innes.
Whenever a man is missing, the papers always call
it a mystery. Pine humour I With similar fine
humour the Evening News heads the paragraph
speculating upon his fate “ Grave Suspicions,’'
There is no end to the fun of these incorrigible
jokers. And very little beginning. But that by
the way. Wo saw a man coming out of Alfred’s
office the other night with beaded drops upon bis
WE DON’T LIKE EXPOSING THIS THING, BET WE MUST.
TO JOSEPH.
Dear J oe, please sling the Tichborno bosh—
We know how you are faring;
There’s nobody believes in it—
Well, barring you and Baring;
And, in your time, Joe, have you not
Believed a devil of a lot?
Believe no more, sweet Joe, we pray—
The Fates can’t have allowed itl
If you load up more Tichborne stuff,
You’re certain to get “crowded.”
And, if you once get crowded, you—
Why, goodness knows what will ensue I
Go back, now, and illume the House—
It is your right vocation;
Be Minister for Public Works,
Or else for Education!
Adorn the land; but, take our tip,
Just let this Tichborne rubbish rip.
We’ll sing this gorgeous themel So hand
Us quickly down the tuneful lyre;
We’ll sing the One, in this great land,
Who pours forth eloquence and fire!
He may not like It, yet we will,
By thunder I sing this hero still I
Oft, when, of nights, that brain was tapp’d,
And thou great Andy “ tuk the flure,”
We listened with attention wrapt
About that "road at Bungendore;”
And when we learned how it was kept,
’Midst cries of “Shamel” we sadly wept.
Pent in thy breast’s a Grattan’s verve;
Thou hast Burke’s passion by the lump;
Thine oratory does unnerve
When thou talk’st of the Carcoarpump.
And that speech did touch ev’ry heart,
Upon the Blayney water-cart.
Impassioned men like thee are rarel
Yes; cherish thee, Lynch, well they may
So take thy bright electro-ware,
And clutch thy papier-machi tray.
’Tis but just homage to a great
Man, who’s a power in the State.
A “D.T.” YOUNG MAN INTERVIEWING DISTINGUISHED VISITOR (ac-
cording to the young man’s own account.)
HOW THE INTERVIEW ACTUALLY TOOK PLACE, AFTER ALL. (From
a reliable informant.)


brow and beard—muffled in perspiration and beer,
so to speak. “Dash it,” he muttered, “I’mfull
of this thing! Here have I been a-hidin’ in a
bloomin’ cellar for a week, and a-livin’ on fag ends
of sausages and corned beef, with only a quart o’
beer a day, an’ not let out till arter dark, Jist to
please these bloomin’ heditors. But, dash me-if
I don’t get better tucker, an’ more beer, ’an’ a ’arf-
crown now and then, I’m a goin’ to be found, I
am.” Whether this has any reference to what
goes before or not is no affair of ours. Alfred’s
correspondent at Glen Innes hints that the China-
men up there are concerned in the fate of the
missing man. But then one Chinaman is always
ready to cry down another.
* » •
A man has been writing to the Evening
News suggesting a tax of two pounds per head
yearly on bachelors. His reason is that they do
not increase the population or the revenue. It is
like a wayside shanty in a thirsty land to meet
with sueh cheery-hearted Innocence in these days.
Another oorresponent, who has no respect for the
simple. Illusions of mental infancy, replies to him
after this fashion:—“ Many bachelors—a great
many, too—are very heavily taxed as it is, though
not by the Government, as they have in some
instances to keep whole families.” Ah, yes—and
whole families in different places too, sometimes.
There is the trouble. But listen. One man, after
hugging and mugging a more or less flat-footed,
bony-wrlstcd, coir-haired young female over a
front gate until the man who has kept her up till
then Intimates to him with grim brevity that it is
about time to come to business—marries her, and
begets a progeny of heavy-headed, Jelly-eyed
children. He finds that it is as much as he ean do to
support them without having to pay taxes. Con-
sequently, with exquisite guilelessness, he expects
the man who has not made a fool of himself to be
taxed as If he had. Is it not superb simplicity ?
There is no mention of taxing spinsters. We sup-
pose it was thought no fault of theirs that they
are what they are. This is not so Arcadian, after all.
The depths to which toadyism may de-
scend have, It seems, yet to be plumbed. Even our
own Echo Is nowhere. An English Tory paper
gravely records, with respect to the late Lord
Torrington, who died shortly after the Duke of
Albany—perhaps as a slight mark of attention, in
case the Duke required a Lord-in-Walting in “the
Royal Department,” in Heaven—a story which
transcends anything we have yet met with. Lord
Torrington was the Queen’s representative when
Prince Albert was brought over to get Princes and
Princesses. Prince Albert was—and remained till
the last day of his life—a wretched sailor. He was
desperately sea-sick coming over, and—but let
Vanity Fair tell the story its own way: “ The
steward not appearing in time for the crisis. Lord
Torrington at once devoted his hat to the purpose,
which saved the Prince from a calamity. His per-
manent appointment to a Lordship-in-Waiting
amply repaid Lord Torrington for the sacrifice of
that hat.”
• ♦ »
Y e who give yourselves up to editing mixed
liquors, do not at the same time attempt to edit a
family. If you do, you will find the two things
will collide. Asa rule the family will get the worst
of it. For Instance, we knew a man once who had
a fair-haired little son that was the apple of his eye
and the pride of his heart. He used to send this
winsome child to the neighbouring bars for drinks
of many kinds, but equal insidiousness. The win-
some child is now a hopeless inebriate and an
almost perpetual inhabitant of the look-up, while
the father is at present a foremost member of the
Blue Ribbon Army, caressed by all and trusted by
none. We knew the man well. We were but
why these fruitless confessions? Here is an in-
stance of another kind-an instance of filial Ingra-
titude hardly surpassed by the son who brought
his sire’s grey hairs to an early grave and left the
old man to wear a wig for the rest of his days. It
occurred In a Southern township—the name of
which we shall not give for the credit of Its other
inhabitants. A son dragged his father—or had
him brought on a handcart, it matters little which
—to the local court-house, and had him charged
with excessive and continual drinking—asking that
a prohibition be passed to restrain publicans from
supplying that aged but cheery parent with intox-
icating liquor. Then there was a sight that might
have moved a rock-toad to tears, if a rook-toad
had chanced to be present. The poor old man
rose up and feebly defended himself against that
stony-hearted son. He said that “ho thought it
hard for a British subject to be treated in such a
manner : he admitted having been repeatedly
looked up for drunkness, but” (and here the pathos
of the case came in) “ he had lost his teeth and
was compelled to live on suction.” Poor, help-
less, old man 1 How many there are like him-
When our son grows up—which a sanguine dispo-
sition leads us to hope he will, if we can Induce
him to give up a habit he has cf crawling under
culverts —we will not only insist upon his sup-
plying us with as much liquor as we want, but we
will—if the fancy takes us—make him turn a crank
and feed us with a hosepipe of whisky all day.
No filial ingratitude for us, while our trembling
hand ean wield a pickaxe.
• • •
The Gttnnbdah Advertiser —a journal, it
may be Interesting to know, which will either Just
envelope a pound of sugar, or make 49 char-
woman’s curl-papers—has a most interesting serial
entitled, “Euchred; or a Trip to Myalltown,” in
which the following passage appears;—“B—t
that old - she’s done me out of too much
money as it is, but you can sling us half a sov. if
you like, and we’ll go further down the street.”
Later on, under the heading of “Items of In-
terest,” is the following:—“ We knew a man in
Gunnedah to drink eight pints of beer in three
minutes, and then he wanted another.” We have
no doubt that there is no one on earth who knew
that man more intimately than did the editor I On
the whole, we cannot but consider that theO.A. is
rather a startling Instance of the march of civili-
zation. We don’t say, though, which way.
Says the Maitland Times:—“What we
should very much like to know is, what part of the
world the genius who now writes for the Mob-
pkth Times hails from, for, if there are any more
of his kidney knocking about, there is always a
billet open for them on this paper.” We don’t
know where he came from, but we know all about
the billet that is open for him. The editor of the
Times has a bone in his leg, and he wants
somebody to saw wood and turn the press until he
recovers. That’s the billet. A billet of wood, as
it were.
We want to rub this thing into the minds
of the public, too apt to be corrupted by the
slavish adulation of the daily press. Apropos of
the gambling hell at Monte Carlo, a correspondent
of a London paper writes:—“TheCrown Prince of
Monaco has been seeing the great potentates of
Europe and their Prime Ministers in the hope of
saving the Casino from the attack which France
and Italy are soon to make upon it. The death of
the Duke of Albany, which undoubtedly was
hastened by the unhealthy excitement of the
roulette table, is unlucky for the princely partner
in the Monaco hell.
The flexibility of the English language has
often excited our wildest enthusiasm. We have
laughed at “broken” English in almost every
dialect on earth, but here is something which ap-
peared as a letter from a Chinese physician in the
Gunnedah Advertiser, that comes pretty near
takingthe frost off the fruit-cake. It was signed
“Ah Chink.” “fir, Me one medical gentleman
and me come to your town to cure those peoples
your doctors no be able. Your doctors bed
Jealous (me no sayy what for), and look too often
threugh bottom of tumbler, and come to my bed
room at night, and kick up devil’s own row. And
what for ? m« no speak them; me no insult them;
me perfectly qualified medical gentleman; only
my certificate be burnt at Garden Palace fire. So
me not prove it. You no believe me, you write
China, find out. Me sober, respectable man. Me
pay my way.”
This looks as if every town in this colony
had a different code of laws for itself. A few days
ago, a certain man was hauled along before a
dread tribunal at Goulburn, and charged with
vagrancy. Prisoner proved he was employed at
the time on some public works for the Govern-
ment. The Bench said that might be all very true,
but from the style in which Government work
was done round there, it was very hard for the
f)o!lce to tell between it and a downright case of
oaflng. However, the Southern Solon gave the
prisoner the benefit of the doubt and ordered his
discharge, at the same time reminding him that
unless he found smarter work he was very likely
to get Into gaol for vagrancy. And yet, when Mr.
Dlmmyorat Flower marched his noble army of
bummers to the different watchhouses here, the
other day, and insisted on the lot being locked up
on the same charge, he was politely told these
cheerful asylums were not for his particular style
of vagrants, but for all others.
Talk of the fate of Sodom and the disaster
that befel Gomorrah. Also do not fall to remem-
ber the end of Carthage and the probable destiny
of Bungendore. Let not the ruins of Athens be
left out, and Just to be up to date, imagine that
the Maori ambassadors, now In England, have
taken their stand on a ruined arch of London
Bridge, so as to economise the last match when
they light their little dudeens. But, pile up the
disasters as hot as you will, you are not within ten
Jugs of the misery in Kempsey. List, we pray
you. to a News telegram, and speculate no more
on the end of the world During the last two
Mondays, the Sydney mail, due in Kempsey at
7 a.m., has been twelve hours late. Great incon-
venience is experienced by the residents of Coran-
gula and those up the river in consequence of the
postal authorities in West Kempsey not detaining
their malls until the arrival of the Sydney mall.
The result is that last week’s Sydney papers will
not reach their destinations before next Monday or
Tuesday.”
One good point about Purves, of the Mel-
bourne division of the Devil’s Brigade,is that when
he has any thing worth saying he says it out boldly.
A few days ago he had occasion to defend a Colllns-
place Aspasia, and during his remarks on the “ sin
of cities, he took the liberty to point out that the
Government of Victoria kept the largest brothel
in the colony, and the worthy chairman of the
Bench walked through it every morning. It was
the Fitzroy Gardens. There were more women
seduced in the Fitzroy Gardens than in all the
brothels of Australia, and there was not a single
policeman ever seen within cooee of the place.”
This certainly speaks well for the morality of the
“single” members of the “foorce” down there ;
but what about the married Bobbies ? And this
reminds us that sine * the “ deadbeats” have mono-
polised our own Domain, the worship of V'mus
has been transferred to the sacred groves of Moore
Park, a spot which is visited by our guardians of
the “ pace” about as often as a tom-cat voluntarily
faces out to sea.
With Ebenezer Ward, M.P., of Adelaide, it
Is a case of “ up-a-dalsy.” He is, or is to be,
Chairman of Committees. We know Bbbywell;
used, in fact, at one time to live next door to him,
and the two families would lend each other over
the fence billet-wood and box-irons. We believe,
too, that the Joint households used to halve a
washerwoman; and know that the two families
subsidised a boy to imperil his soul hourly, by
sitting on the kerbstone in front of the houses and
telling everybody who came with a cart and a
frown that we’d moved to—Onkaparinga. Ebby
was under a bit of a cloud in those days: his Party
not being in power. He had only Just done being
Minister for Education, but, as he tried to educate
the people entirely from the Globe Hotel, he was
not a success in that capacity. Ebby is a pretty
looking fellow, and a better debater than anyone
we can put forward excepting Tom Garrett. And
his personal popularity was (and is) extraordin-
ary. His talents are extensive and varied, and
no bottle of whisky would stand a show
with him in a couple of hours’ contest. He is
a bit of a farmer, a bit of a commission-
agent, and a bit of a Journalist. You could not
count oh your fingers the papers he has had in his
time. We remember the Farmer’s Friend, the
Selectors’ Advocate, the City and Country,
while, before he quarrelled with Carroll, he used,
in conjunction with Villeneuve Smith, to write
the Lantern. When, however, he and SkelTington
burst up, Eoby was depicted on the following
week in the form of a ram, branded 1.0. U., a deli-
cate reference to his pecuniary position. But
Ebenezer was—we are getting rather tired of this I
—“equal to the occasion.” He subsidised an op-
position comic groan to reproduce the ram in its
entirety, only altering the head to Carroll’s and
the brand, 1.0. U., to the broad arrow. When Bkef.
saw this, he m© ined “ Lay me by my little barrel,”
and disappeared from the public gaze for a week.
A greater wonder than Ebby. though, is D. C. F.
Moodie, once owner o f the Portonian, defunct,
who has at last got a seat in the Assembly. The
Portonian was a paper about the size of a blister,
and it warred chiefly with the Apostles, and with
those who would not advertise. It never said a
kind word about anybody except of a fishmonger
once who sent him a barrel of oysters—by mis-
take, as it afterwards turned out; tor there are
Moodie’s and Moodys in the flou—, no you don’t—
in the S. A. capital. Moodio Is eccentric in every
way, and in the summer, to keep the flies off,
carries about with him the tail of an Asiatic ass—
“nature,” as some writer cruelly remarked, “hav-
ing already endowed him with the head of that
animal.” He belongs to the Cape, and is known
by the sobriquet of “blue blood,” because he can
trace his ancestry back two centuries without
stumbling npon a policeman. Moodie is short,
stout, and red-faced—an athlete, and the finest
swimmer in the colonies. To those who have not
seen him perform with tumblers he will be chiefly
remembered by having gone over to Melbourne
and horse-whipped A. T. Clark "for slandering a
helpless and absent lady I ” This abject farce was
consummated by Moodie's appearing a few days
after at the Mechanics’ Institute to lecture, when
only a dog and the bill-sticker turned up to gaze
on the mighty hero. He then started to walk back
from Melbourne to Adelaide, and on arrival be-
laboured a lawyer for advising his wife, in his
absence, to leave him. Then he faded, but, it
seems his motto was “Resurgam.” True is the
saying, sometimes “ The world is mad, my
masters ”
Great Sporting Event In Prospect.
A. G. TAYLOR WILL “SOOL ON” HIS DOG, IN PERSON.
OF COURSE.
“ On Wednesday night,” says the New-
castle Herald, “ Peter Campbell, whilst In the
Theatre Royal, had his pocket picked of a lady’s
gold watch. Surely this cannot be our Peter, the
champion bush sky-pilot ?”
Why notl—lt was an “off’ring,” and
The “ticker ’’was “In evidence;”
Why, Peter would take anything—
We’ve known him e’en to take a fence!
All’s fish that comes to Peter’s net;
For him odd half-pence have a charm;
How well-known are throughout the land
That “ yawning ” hat and “ little palm!”
That he should to the theatre go
Is meet, to say the least of It;
Why we’ve known Peter In a day
Give scores of “ orders for the Pit.”
Don’t doubt that this our Peter Is;
It must, It can, it SHALL be true!
When once you know him, you will own
The world’s not large enough for two.


BRIEF MENTION.
A long-stop: Ten years in “ quod.”
Mr. Walter Coonan, M.L.A., is still unwell.
And yet people expect that legislation should go
on!
A contemporary says: “ The frosts in the
Wagga district have disappeared.” This is rough
on the profession.
Deaths from snakes have become frequent
In New Guinea of late years. Too many missiona-
ries: too much rum.
Alfred’s advice is to “always laugh at
your own jokes.” No wonder that Alfred is so
everlastingly solemn.
There is a humourist in Coraki. He writes
to the local editor, and “ apologises for trespassing
on his valuable spaee ” I
Hunt-Qrubbe is the patronymic of a newly
promoted Admiral. Whata name that would be
for a Noos reporter, to be sure!
The Rum has been publishing a tale nailed
“A Fight for a Fortune.” There Is evidence of
careful sub-editing in the selection of this story.
A man went In to see a Minstrel perform-
ance at Inverell, lately. While there, he died.
The same old joke killed him. It never misses
fire.
When Joseph heard that they had blown’
up the London Detective Bureau, he remarked :
“ Ah, taking tip again, I suppose; they’re always
at it.”
The Echo speaks about the “ revenue of
Cypress." This joke —though unintentional—is
quite worthy of the corpses who write for the
Echo.
A young “ masher ” the other day boasted
that he had visited no less than three balls in one
night, but omitted to mention they were elevated
brass ones.
Cootamundra has been gazetted a muni-
cipality, and will soon have a full-blown town
council. As if there were not enough ways of
filling hell without this.
The Glen Innes correspondent of the
Nooze says that certain Chinamen up there are
“ under the eye of the police.” Which would seem
to mean that the police look down on them. But
on® thing does not seem to have struck this scribe
—that the police may suspect the Chinamen of
corresponding for the No'dsns.
A human skeleton waa discovered in the
sand at Manly lately. Poor fellow I He had been
a boarder in a roast-veal villa down there. No
wonder he was a skeleton.
There is some difficulty about getting a
man to row the next “ race as the promoters of
the show facetif usly term it—with Hanlan. Are
there no paralytic patients in the asylums ?
The Brewarrina Express says that at the
local police court, “a third drunkard was charged
with a caution.” It would have been more to the
point if he had been charged with corned-beef.
“A young man with the head of a calf”
has been announced as on exhibition at “ La Scala,”
a cafe chant ant in Paris, France, u e observe, how-
ever, that Henniker Heaton dates from Loud en.
David Buchanan says that “ the greatest
good done in the House is done under motions of
adjournment.” Adjournments for refreshments,
David means. Which, of course, he naturally
would.
In the Maori language there is no verb
“to be” or “to have.” This is very appropriate,
for the white man long ago decreed that the race
should "have” nothing, and as soon as possible
cease “to be.”
“ A Fight for Fortune ” is the title of the
tale chosen by the Hum to goad the public into the
madness of subscribing. Whata splendidly uncon-
scious satire on its own position, this is! And
what a hopeless fight I
The Gladstone Observer burnt. The
editor watched till the last dying ember was deal,
then, taking his fencing tools, set out for the Ten-
mile. “ I can give my whole mind to it, now," he
said, with a sigh of relief.
Mr. A. G. Taylor—we are beginning to be
tired of the name-has a slashing vein of sarcasm.
H e has given nicknames to half the members In
the They call him nothing. Which is
silently but savagely true.
“ Grey hairs are honourable,” says the
Burhowa Bogtrotter. That depends. It is not,
for instance—except in Celtic circles—considered
conspicuously honourable to have them on the
teeth. But, we forget: Burrowa is Celtic.
“ The handsomest man in Berlin,” so say
the religious papers, “is in receipt of a heavy
salary from the local artists for procuring them
the best female models.” We wonder no one ever
thought of this, here. But what’s the good until
the Ministry resign, anyhow? There is only one who
—but we will spare his blushes.
It is said that two-thirds of the Pressmen
In Europe and America are Freethinkers. The
other third, we presume, do not think at all. Two-
thirds of the Pressmen of Sydney are Freedrinkers.
The other third do not drink at all. No one will
trust them.
We see by the Great Gale that a Quean-
beyan girl has been committed for trial tor the
murder of her baby. The mother, it seems, is
“ under 15.” They're always at these vagaries in
the bush, now-a-days. Something in the eucalyp-
tus, perhaps.
“ I bade,” says one of Alfred’s bloatedly
opulent reporters, “ farewell to the spare man,
whose bony right hand was tightly closed upon
something that had been recently put there.” Lot
of poetry about a chew of tobacco wrapped up in
a soup-ticket.
There was a great thunderstorm near
Muswellbrook lately. The Newcastle Herald
says it took the horns off a cow. But Hanby has
the privilege of genius and beauty to exaggerate.
If it could blow as hard as he, it w, uld have been a
thunderstorm.
A correspondent sends us a fashionable
Item from Gundagal. It is that a local butcher-boy
and servant-girl were married there the other day.
We thank our correspondent, and shall be happy
to let him know when Mr. Howard, the hangman,
is ready for him.
hays the local paper:—“ The most un-
usual sight of a mob of mules was witnessed in
Wagga on Thursday afternoon.” The deuce it
wasl And here have we been thinking that
Ministerial banquets were matters of common oc-
currence up there I
When the affectionate spouse of a certain
M.L C. read the ad., “ That husband of mine is
three times the man he was before he began using
Bogus’s Bolus,” she commenced, In alarm, a calcu-
lation of how much money it would take to buy
up the Sydney supply.
Bourke is the paradise of publicans.
Whenever a dead body is found there, the local
paper almost invariably remarks : “ There was no
reason to suspect any foui play.” Of course not.
Only Bourke brandy. This is apropos of several
sudden deaths there, lately.
They are getting warmer, as the children
say in the enthralling game of hlde-the-handker-
chlef. The Queensland people, we mean. The
railroad from Brisbane to Gymple is talked of as a
near probability. Thank God I We shall soon be
able to go to Hell In a saloon-carriage.
Laura Laramie, the “tattooed woman,”
has just had a tattooed kid in Baltimore. The
tattoo marks on the child are a source of great
wonder to the citizens. It is remarked, however,
that since the advent of the baby, the tongue of
the showman has grown too big for his cheek.
The Port Macquarie Bench decided lately
that the words “Good God Almighty” are not
profane. This, to a religious mind, seems a
peculiar decision. The Port Macquarie Bench and
The Almighty are evidently on cool terms. But
the terms will get warmer In time—for the Port
Macquarie Bench.
A country paper says that there is at Nar-
rabri “a horse open to run anything in the colony
for a quarter of a mile.” We think this is a rash
statement. We are willing to believe the horse Is
a fast one, but he is not as fast as the horse we
know—the horse that takes corpses from the
Benevolent Asylum to the cemetery.
Mr. A. G. Taylor says he does not care
anything for the sensational paragraphs that ap-
pear In the press.—
Taylor, this is the sharpest stab.
That you should treat us thus I
We trusted you, but, like a crab,
Pou have “ gone back ” on ns!
There was a breach of promise case called
on before “ Sir Jo ” on Thursday, and the plaintiff
took £75 as compensation for her lacerated feel-
ings. The joint ages of the parties totted up some-
thing under foui -score and ten.. The damages get
lighter as the parties get older. Look at Lord
Gumboil and Miss For —but there is a wide gap
between this pair of breaches.
Some people have tremendously mean am-
bitions. We knew of a man who nearly broke his
heart because he was not made town-dustman.
But the man witu the lowest ambition of all was,
we think, a person who was fined £5 at the Central
Police Court, lately, for pretending to be a detec-
tive. He should not have been fined, He should
have been made boots in the burglar ward.
The Riverina Evening Star has a noble
motto as headpiece. It runs:—
“ Be just and fear not:
Let all the ends thou aim’st at be thy country’s,
Thy God’s, and truth’s.”— Shakespeare.
Under this appears a flashing article—on what
think you ? Ou the necessity of legalising shaving
on a Sunday. We look forward with grim sus-
pense to the next article—which, we expect, will
advocate the propriety of paring the toe-nails on
religious festivals. And these are the “ends”
that are • thy country’s, thy God’s, and truth si”
Touching Reconciliation.
THE MORAN RECEIPTION AFFAIR, GOING TO FATHER MAHOGANY’S BOSOM.


Mr. DbCodrct Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South
Wales), Author of the " Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide," and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, Mining Titles, a well
proven speciality, tST" Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flag and floral decorations. 60$ Hunter-street,
Sydney.*
Messrs Fry and Co., of chocolate fame,
have secured large and commodious premises at
No. 4 Bond-street, and have established an agency
under the Management of Mr, Nicholls.*
A correspondent wishes to know if Brooks,
the hero of ** Castles in Spain,” is the celebrated
Plano Stool Manufacturer. The best way to find
out is to apply to W. H. Paling and Co.*
Books on Mining, by Mr. DeCourcy
Browne, Beresford Chambers, 53 Castiereagh-
street—The “ Miwers’ Handy Book,” 2nd Edition,
relates wholly to Miners’ right clalms—ls. 6d.; by
post, Ss. The “Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” re-
lating wholly to Mining Leases, Mineral License
Holdings, and Mineral Conditional Purchases—
-2s 6d.; by post 3s. The “Manual of Minerals,”
commonly found in Australia ; how to dis-
tinguish, test, assay, and value them—ls. 6d.; by
gost 2s. J. J. Moore and Co., 554 George-street,
“Them as has money and no brains is
made for them as has brains and no money,” is a
saying attributed to that pest of society, the Tlch-
borne claimant. This being the opinion of our
fat friend, it is only logical to suppose that the
lucky possessors of both commodities are specially
useful in the whirl-gig of life; and it has struck us
that the present members of the firm of Antbrtny
Hordern and Sons, of the Palace Emporium, Hay-
market, are remarkable examples of this, as they
have proved themselves ideal citizens in many a
way. Do they not bring the world’s manufactures
within the reach of everyone? and do they not
find useful employment for hundreds ? and this
last matter counts for something in these days,
when a blanket in the Domain and a b read-an d-
cheese breakfast, with a policeman to wait upon
you, have been considered luxuries.*
Genevieve Ward.
Aenbvtbvb Ward, whose portrait adorns the
"first page of The Bulletin to-day, is a much-
travelled woman. She is also one or the pleasant-
est persons with whom one could wish to spend an
hour chatting. We called on her the other day at
Petty’s hotel, where she is now domiciled, and we
have been two Inches taller ever since. The reason
that we are taller is that we had to grow considera-
bly in a very short time to keep from being
swamped in some of the statements we made
during the interview. It’s pleasant to interview
people once, especially wnen they are about leav-
ing town, and you don’t care what you say about
them; but it isn’t so pleasant the second time, if
you haven’t stuck pretty close to the truth on the
former occasion. You’ll see the drilt of this by-
and-bye, if you keep your hair on, and don’t get
impatient. When we sent up our card as The
Bulletin representative, the left - handed
curiosity they call a page down at Petty’s told
us that Miss Ward was awaiting us in her private
parlour. Of course, we didn’t want to keep her in
suspense, and so, declining an invitation to try a
cocktail made after the Yankee pattern, we went
right up.
• ♦ *
The favourite tragedienne was seated at a
table when we entered, but the minute she clapped
eyes on us, she said : “ Ah, you’re Tbe Bulletin
man, are you ? 81t down, sir. I have a bone to
pick with you. You are the man who once came
to interview me in Chicago, and you went away
and said that I was seventy-five years old, that
my teeth lay on the table, and that I was Just
lathering ray face for a shave. Don’t look so
innocent. 1 remember you perfectly. Nobody
who ever saw that wart on the end of your nose
would forget you. But wait a minute. Here
comes Mr. Vernon. I want to introduce him to
the biggest fibber on earth.” We looked around
for Alex. Waugh, but as we didn’t see him, we
Concluded that the last remark was Intended for
us. However, we began to apologise. We told
Miss Ward that we knew she Was 75, and that she
occasionally laid her teeth on the lable. but that
we had no idea whatever that she weis addicted to
shaving. Then she SEiid we were worse than ever,
and broke into one of those melodious, rippling
laughs that nobody but Adelaide Phillips was ever
able to imitate. We looked at her, and wondered
whether she lived on roasted canary birds, baked
symphonies, or what ? But we said nothing, and
when the cyclone of music had subsided, she
said : “Do you knew I am wonderfully pleased
with my Sydney audiences. I think they are the
keenest, the quickest to catch a point, and the
readiest to respond that I have ever played to.
They remind me of Baltimore. It’s strange, really,
to note the difference between audiences of dif-
ferent cities. Now, in Chicago, when I was playing
‘ Forget Me Not,’ I never knew when I was
J fleasing the people. You would never hear a
augb, nor see a smile until the end of the act, and
then would come a storm of applause that
fairly made the building quake. It is hard
to play to such people, because you are always in
doubt. Where the audience is responsive and
prompt it is much easier to play, and moreover,
you play so much better. To feel that she is in
perfect svmpathy with her audience is tljegreatest
element in the success of an actress. I like the
Sydney people, because I feel perfectly at home
with them inside of ths first ten minutes. Now. in
Birmingham, one part or point in ‘ Forget Me
Not’ would evoke a thunder of applause. Iu
Manchester the same point would pass unnoticed,
but some other point that had escaped attention
in Birmingham would create the greatest sort of
an uproar. In Sydney, however, every point in
the piece seems to takejone with the other, and to
play is only pastime. Come here, * Teck,’ “ and
straightway a little black and tan rat-dog leaped
from amongst the folds of a robe on the sofa, and
sprang into the lady’s lap. “ This,” she continued,
“is my pet * Thekla.' She was named after a
play that was written for me, and I called her
‘ Teok ’ for short. She is a great traveller. For
nine years she has followed me about through
America, England, the Continent, India—every-
where. An amusing incident occurred in London.
One night after the play the Prince of Wales and
his cousin. Prince Teck, were presented to me.
Presently I called out, Come here, ‘lTeck,’ and
both of their Royal Highnesses looked at me as
though they were about ready to explode with
astonishment. I saw the mistake they were
labouring under, and made an explanation which
at once relieved the embarrassment, and the mat-
ter ended in a hearty laugh.”
* * v
It’s funny how actresses take to dogs. We
once knew one who had a pet poodle called Fredl-
gonda. She called it Fred ie, for short, and took
it everywhere. Freddie knew pretty nearly as
much as its mistress, and when the little thing
died, the actress went into mourning. For years
afterwards you couldn't speak of that dog in that
woman’s presence without her beginning to cry.
All the pros, knew that dog. One of the actress's
admirers took it into the dress-circle of the Theatre
Royal in Wellington (N.Z.), one night, and when its
mistress came on to do her turn, it made such a
rumpus that one of the local papers “ slated ” the
admirer next day in a way that was simply un-
kind. The little admirer got a horsewhip and went
to the editor’s office to teach him manners. Pre-
sently ho came down in pieces with the handle of
the whip sticking out of his throat. Now he has
given up architecture, and has Joined the armed
constabulary, and is stationed over in the Waikato
district, where the Maoris need watching. But we
were going to tell you that although the woman was
so tender hearted towards the dog she bated human-
ity like a snake. We knew a man who took a dose of
poison in the house where she was lodging, and
she actually refused to come down stairs and see
him die. She said she was afraid if she went down
he would come to again. Well, they sent for a
doctor and pumped the fellow out, and he got
well. But you can lay odds that he didn’t under-
take to work up any sympathy in that quarter
ever afterwards. It’s discouraging to a man to
take poison all on account of a woman, and then
have her send down word that she thinks he wIU
make a pretty corpse, and that she’ll “ come down
and see him after he’s dead.”
* ♦ *
But we must get through with this inter-
view. You would like to know what Genevieve
Ward is like off the stage. Well, she is a plain-
spoken, straight-forward sort of woman, of keen
wit and a lively imagination. Her hair is darker
than a black oat after night in a cellar, and her
eyes are dark grey, large and brilliant. At once
you are at home in her presence, for she isn’t the
least bit “stagey,” and doesn't talk shop. The
minute you meet her you have an intuition that
there is a lady around somewhere: and as you
stand twirling your bat in your hands, and trying
to think of something to say about the weather,
she gives you one glance that sits you into a chair
before you know what you are about, and bangs
your hat on the floor as though you owned
the house and had only called around to collect the
rent. And now you want to know how old she is.
Well, she isn’t old enough to bo our stop-mother,
but she’ll never see twenty—that is, her first
twenty—again. She might see her second twenty
perhaps, if she were to get up oh tip-toe and look
away over the back fence towards a coming
Christmas or two. But she’s got the whitest teeth
and the prettiest little ears but, there! We’ll
begetting into trouble with the boss if we don’t
look out.
» * *
Genevieve Ward, you know, was educated
for the operatic profession. She has been acting
omy mneyears. We asked her which she liked
best, “ why, acting, of course,” was the reply,
“ because it is more sensible. I used to get so
weary of having the same man get down on his
knees and sing the same love story to me every
night. It was tirlngly absurd, and then I could
never give vent to my feelings. I always wanted
to act, but if I were to let myself go as I felt, I
would have been done up long before the evening
was over. I constantly had to hold myself in and
husband my strength, but I don't need to do that
in the drama.”
* * •
“Was Forget Me Not written for you?”
we asked. “ Oh, no. It wasn't written for anyone
in particular. Miss Cavendish had it first, when
playing at the Olympic in London, but she didn’t
play it. It was offered to Wilson Barrett for Miss
Heath, but he refused it. Mrs. Herman Vezin
next looked over it, but gave it up as too hard and
too daring. Wallaok, of New York, had it too,
and in fact it was hawked about all over the world,
until I got hold of it. and played it first in 1879.
In the autumn of 1889,1 went to New York, and
discovered that Wallaok had put it on at his
theatre a few days before my arrival. I served an
injunction on him, and the lawsuit which followed
cost me thousands of dollars, but I beat him, and
established my claim to the sole right of playing
the piece. I had to re-write a great portion of the
play. Here is the copy from which I play. See
how I have interlined it, and substituted my own
for the authors’ passages. Of coarse, this was all
done with the consent of the authors, but I never
could have made it the success it is, had I stuck to
the original text. How often have I played it ?
Let me see. If I play ifuntil July 7th, that will be
the 900th time for me. I think they ought to give
me a benefit on that night, don’t you? "
♦ * o
But we’re not going to tell you what we
thought. Genevieve Ward was born in New York,
but she received her professional education in
England and France. Her father is a well-known
New York politician, and at one time was United
States Consul at Bristol.
Hanlan is offered an engagement to row
on (he Seine at Paris, and will, most probably, pro-
ceed to France direct, when his Australian tour is
ended.
The report of Messrs. Morris and Ranken,
which was prepared specially to assist members of
the Assembly in their deliberations on the Land
Bill, seems to have been almost entirely over-
looked, as it has only been referred to once
since the bill has been in committee. Mr. Brunker
made use of a plan accompanying the report, to
controvert a statement by Mr. Burdekin that
there had not been as much dummying as it was
represented there had been under the existing
law. This plan referred to a run in which Mr.
Burdekin at one time held an interest, and it
showed that the total area of the station was
48,000 acres ; total area of the reserves, 5,865 acres;
total area of land purchased, in interest of
station, 26,598 acres; total area by bona fide selec-
tors, 321 acres 2 roods; total area of pre-leases in
interest of station, 7930 acres: total area of pre-
leases held by hnna fide selectors, nil. Mr. Burde-
kln questioned the accuracy of this statement, and
produced a letter from Mr. Morris, in which that
gentleman described it as a “gross exaggeration,”
but failed to explain bow it was incorporated in
the report. Sir John Robertson distinguished
himself in the incidental discussion which took
place respecting the report by saying that he had
not read a line of it, but be knew that every line
contained a lie. “In fact,” he went on to say, “the
whole thingisa He—ad dlle.” The observation
being thoroughly characteristic of the effete land
legislator, no one passed a remark ns to its pal-
pable inconsistency.
The necessity for a daily Hansard, so that
the pulblo may know everything that passes in
the House instead of a bit here and there, is be-
coming patent. The papers give us Just enough
to make us anxious for more. There was the
rumpus over that vacant captaincy, for instance,
in which the Mudgee Magpie tried to gobble up
the Northumberland Tomtit. “ They would take
you for a powder-monkey,” said the haughty
Mudgee, with fine Irony. ”If I became a member
of t the force.” replied the tiny one, “ I wouldn’t
be drummed out for blackguardism. I would
manage to keep my rifle, and wouldn’t be found
gracing the gaol for misconduct. I have lived in
the colony for 40 years, and am not afraid to
walk the streets and look at every man straight
In the face.” Taylor: “ What s the use of
humbugging. Don’t you get £3OO a year from
the Government ?” Ninian : “ I never received
a penny from this or any other Government.”
Taylor: ‘‘Bosh! *Vhat anout wife poisoning?
Even wife-murderers had not hesitated to look
their fellow men in the face. Men who had mur-
dered their wives and narrowly escaped the scaf-
fold, had ventured to look the populace in the
face. Such an argument was paltry and absurd,
and worthy only of a cock-sparrow that lived by
gathering up the crumbs which fell from the
Governmental table. It caused one to think of
the local preachers, and who worshipped God on
Sunday afternoon and the devil at night, In com-
pany with strumpets In Woolloomooloo by way of
antithesis.” There! How one’s mouth waters to
think of the blighting sarcasm and biting retort
that pass glibly from mouth to mouth, three or
four times a week, only to be buried In the dry
pages of Hansard I
Not quite Respectful to the Commander-in-Chief.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shall be glad to have this index posted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
Barrargun J.C June 19.30.
Cooaamble J.C. (Annual) June 30, 31.
Victoria Amateur Turf Club June 21.
Liverpool J.C June 21.
Coolao J.C June 36.37.
Blackall R.C June 26, 37.
Canterbury Park June 38.
Penrith July 5.
Clarence River J.C July 9,10.
Townsville J.C July 10,11.
Rockhampton J.C July 10, 11.
Thargominda J.C July 18,19.
Walgett R.C July 20, 30.
(1 oondiwindi ;... .August 18,19.
Hawkesbury August 31, 33,
Victoria Amateur T.C October 11,18.
Murrumbidgee J.C. (Spring)....November 19, 20, 21,
COURSING.
Victoria Club June 19, 20, 31.
S. . Waterloo Cup June 19, 20,21.
N.S W. Club June 25, 26.
Victoria Waterloo Cup June 16,17, lg.
N.Z. Waterloo Cup June 16,17,18.
N.i. Wales Club August 6,7, 8.
Victoria Club August 21, 22.
AQUATIC.
Grafton R.C. Regatta June 28.
M.R.C. Opening* of Branch, Parramatta
River June 28.
Solomon v. P. Kemp, Saokville Reach July 34.
Regatta, Hawkesbury River July 21.
M. Annual Regatta, Parramatta R August 9.
Hanlan v. Beach, Parramatta River ....August 16.
T. Duley v. J. Massey, Illawarra Lake.. August 37.
ATHLETICS.
J. Assenhelm v. W. Harris, mile walk,
Botany June 31.
Thistle Club Sports Agricultural Grounds. .June 28.
All-Comers Handicap, Tlngha July 4.
Sir Joseph Banks Handicap (£300) September.
CYCLING.
N. Union Sports June 21.
Wanderers’ B.C. Race Meeting ... July 17.
Sydney B.C. Race Meeting August 2.
N.S.W. Union Race Meeting August 30.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
At the Lower Herbert races (Q.), the prin-
cipal feature was the tightness of money—and Its
happy possessors.
J. R. Keene, who figured with Foxhall,
amongst other horses, on the English turf, has
gone bung on the New York Stock Exchange.
The mile walk between Bernard Murphy
and J. Ormes, at Melbourne, on Saturday last, re-
sulted In a win for Murphy by forty yards, just the
■ start conceded him by Ormes.
The Osborne-Oriental match for the Junior
Cup will be continued next Saturday. The game
now stands: Osborne, Ist innings, 214; Orientals,
Ist Innings, 121; second, three wickets lor 26.
John Hennessey, of New York, claims to
have the smallest purely bred bull terrier la the
world. The dog is a clear white, eiguteen months
old, and weighs only lb. His mother weighs
ft.
The principals and seconds concerned in
the Five Dock fight, on Ist June, have been com-
mitted lor trial at the next Quarter Sessions. Mr.
Levien, who appears to be the pet of the “ fancy,”
appeared for the sloggers.
At West Maitland, afootball match, under
Association rules, between the Northumberland
and Sydney Clubs, ended in favour of the latter by
five goals to two. Buchanan, a Sydneyite, put his
shoulder out during the play.
The MurrumoidgCe Turf Club has decided
to hold their Spring meeting on November 19, 20,
and 21. Mrs. Lloyd, of Yamma, this year gives a
bracelet, value 100 guineas; and Mr. Frederick
Chisholm the Wagga Wagga Gold Cup.
The old time pugilist, James Kelly, better
known as Australian Kelly, who defeated Jonathan
Smith In Victoria, In 1855, after the longest battle
on record, 0 hours 15min„ now owns a farm and
carries on a tanning business, at Matteawan, N.J.,
C.S.
At the Victoria Hall, Melbourne, on June
7, Powell, of Sydney, and King, a local man, fought
with gloves for a stated £lOO and the light-weight
championship. King made a bad arm the excuse
for acknowledging himself beaten after fighting
seven rounds.
From the Denver Tribune we see that Ed-
wards, the Australian ped., and Frank H. Hart of
Boston, were matched for a six-days’ walk at Den-
ver, £lOO aside, commencing May 19. We yearn
for the result. Hart has a go-as-you-please record
of 565 miles 165 yards.
We may shortly look for some startling
news from English cinder tracks. L. E. Myers,
Frank P. Murray, H. Fredricks, and A. Waldron
were booked to leave New York on Juno 4, for
England, where some of them will compete at
five athletic meetings at the least.
Henry Sohmehl defeated Daniel O’Leary,
the former being allowed twenty-live miles, In a
seventy-five hour walking match at Chicago. 111.,
ending April 12. Score : Schmehl, 250 miles ;
O'Leary, 245. At latest Dan’l was to ride a horse
against a bicyclist, at Memphis, U. 8., six days’
match.
W. G George, the English amateur, who,
on April 7, ran 10 miles in 51 minutes and 20
seconds, beat all amateur and professional records
from 4 miles 880 yards to the finish. The new
records made by George In his wonderful run are:
Five miles 25m. 255., six miles 30m. 365., seven miles
35m. 465., eight miles 40m. 685., nine miles 46m. 125.,
ten miles 51m. 20s.
Says the Down and Gumtree.— “ The
Hanlan v. Beach match being put down for the
da e previously fixed upon by the Mercantile
Bowing Club tor their first ‘river’ regatta, the
date has been altered, and will now be held on
August 9.” This is the first we have heard of the
alteration of date for the Hanlan-Beach match.
We were under the impression that the M.K.C.
gave way.
Charley Mitchell, the English pugilist,
says My desire Is to meet Sullivan In a 24-foot
ring with bare knuckles on the sod ;” but as
Sulll /an has stated that ho does not intend to fight
without gloves, it is not likely Mitchell will have
his wish gratified. Mervine Thompson, of Cleve-
land, U.S., is now looked upon as the most likely
pugilist to wipe out the Boston great gun.
Thompson, who weighs 16 st. 6 lb., and has
performed some wonderful feats of strength, is
stated to be a first-class boxer.
The twenty-seven ton yawl recently pur-
chased by Mr. J. H. Want, in England, duly made
a start for Sydney early In April; so that If all goes
well, we may expect her to arrive here some time
In August. Land and Water says ” that with the
skilful handling which characterised Mr. Want’s
yachting achievements in England, during his
recent trip, great things may be expected of the
pretty little yawl.” The “ Mignonette ”is of light
draft, and stated to be a particularly beautiful
specimen of her class. According to the scale
lately adopted In England, she ranks as 27 tons,
but the measurement In vogue out here wifi
make her 36 tons.
Football Is producing the usual crop of
accidents this year In England. During a contest
for the Wharncliffe charity cup, at Sheffield, two
of the players each hau a leg broken. On the same
day, at W igan, a player hud his spine fractured,
the result of a charge; and during the game be-
tween the Bolton Wanderers and Accrington, Par-
kinson, of the Accrington team, broke nis collar-
bone. A game at Oldham, Lancashire, was marked
by disgraceful and disorderly scenes, which, by
the way, are becoming very common in fair-play
England, the players and spectators joining in
the fracas. Sticks and umbrellas were freely used,
and the favourite Lancashire method of “purring’ 5
(shin-kicking; was freely indulged in.
One of the first statements mxde by Han-
lan after h's arrival in Australia w tt s to the effect
that he had come h re to make money for himself,
and net for those who wished to use him as a draw.
So far, he has no occasion to complain that his
programme has not been carried out. The Nepean
venture must have turned out a big loss to the
syndicate; and “Visor,” in the Australasian,
states that only £lOO was taken at the Lake Wen-
douree show on Saturday week last, from which
it would appear that three-quarters of the spec-
tators were dead-heads. Hanlan received a chequ«
for a century as his share of the plunder; and as
the expenses were not slight, the guarantors will
have cause to reme.uber the “sculler of a cen-
tury.”
Rain and slush were the principal features
of the New Zealand v. Bathurst match, on 11th
June, which resulted in a win for the Maoris by 11
points to nil. The teams were composed and dis-
posed as follows now Zealanders—Full back, D.
Braddon ; three-quarter-backs. T. Ryan, J. Bum-
bel, H. Roberts ; half-backs, E. Davy, J. Talaroa ;
forwards, J. O'Connor, G. Halmore, J. Lecky, P,
Webb, Udy, R. Wilson, M, T. Milton (captain),
E. B. Milton, and G. Carter. Bathurst—Backs, J.
Brown and L. Byers; half-backs, R. Ashworth
(captain), ami J. yeoman ; quarter-backs, K. R.
Jacob and M. Meagher; forwards, Ford, Dixon,
Butler, Rendall, fucker, Wyburn, Malachl, and
Parker. Yeomans, Byers, and Lord made the best
show for the locals.
The recent go-as-you-please in New York
scooped In £sooo—of which Fitzgerald, the winner,
gets £2500, and Rowell, the runner-up, £lOOO.
Rowell took his “gruel” very badly, and held
forth thusly:-“I will race any man in the world
for £lOOO. Let me tell the public that temperance
is no good. I ran this race on temperance prin-
ciples, and got beaten. A man wants to drink to
keep up his strength. People may hold up their
hands in horror, but it is as I say. Of course I
don’t believe a drunkard could win, but from this
time I advocate moderation.” And, by tbe way,
we notice Bishop Barry “llkei his drop of good
beer.” Here’s a chance for the Melbourne Sports-
man to chip In with more coupons, and get the
opinion of its Looard-fearing readers as to who
can preach the better sermon, water or whisky
parsons.
Lord George Bentinck laid down the law
that no owner could make racing pay without
wagering, but Lord Falmouth’s turf career proved
that ho was wrong in one instance at all events.
Iho Cornish peer was never known to make a bet,
except the historical one with Mrs. John Scott, of
Whitehall, with whom he laid a level sixpence, that
his own mare. Queen Bertha, would not win the
Oaks, and whom he afterwards paid with a new
coin set with diamonds. Yet it is estimated that
his lordship had, during a fifteen year career on
the turf, added some £300,000 to his capital. He
had long contemplated retirement from the turf,
and would have taken the step tour years ago, but
for the urgent entreaties of those interested. Had
he done so, the triumphs of (amongst others) Bal
Gal and Dutch Oven, who between them won in
stakes £39,902, would not have been added to the
long list already on record for the magpie jacket.
Since the retirement of Messrs. Coles and
Lockyer from the N.B.W. Rowing Association, the
money affairs of that body—which by the way
were never of the brightest—have gradually been
getting lower, till now they are next thing to up
King-street. To other causes of their pecuniary
difficulties, they added the heavy item of train lare
to Melbourne of the recent representative crew;
but Mr. Martin, the stroke, has stated through the
Press that he, at all events, paid his own trainage,
of which he has never received refund of a penny.
It was certainly an extraordinary—to say the least
of it—statement for the Association to make, and
the subscribers will no doubt wait with interest
for an explanation as to how such inaccuracy could
have c'-ept into the report. The Association is
evidently on its last legs, and the sooner it falls the
better, in order that a bi dy may rise out of its
ashes better able to manage the aquatic affairs of
the colony. To manage them in a worse style
would be an impossibility.
At Philadelphia, on April 10, one of the
longest and best contested glove fights on record
eventuated between Sherritf, known as the “ Prus-
sian,” and John Welch, In the presence of twelve
persons only. Sheriff weighed 12st. 61b., and his
opponent scaled list. 41b. Both men were in prime
condition, as may be imagined from the fact that
73 punishing rounds were gone through in some
five hours. Three more rounds were fought, but
the men not seeming to care about a continuation
of the contest, the referee, on the call of “timel”
for the 76th round, said: “ That's all 1 Take off the
gloves, pack up and put your clothes on!” After
the removal of the gloves, It became apparen'
why the contest was not continued, as both men
were strong on their pins, and eager and anxious
to continue. The removal of the gloves showec
that the hands of Sherriff and Welch were so
swollen and used up by the hard and persisteui
hitting that every time a blow was struck the
most intense pain was caused, consequently both
men felt the uselessness of trying to force the
fighting, as their blows could have but little effect
under the circumstances. A moment after the
removal of the gloves, the hands of each became
so much more swollen that it would not have been
possible for them to put the gloves on again. The
tight altogether lasted shrs. 3min. 45sec. At the
termination, both men were disfigured beyond re-
cognition.
When a portion of the people’s Park was
handed over for the use of cricketers, it w«s no
doubt done with the intention of fostering the
“ noble game,” and not with theldea of supplying
luxurious club-rooms for the onlookers, at a
modest fee of 21s. per annum. The Association
might well have cleared the debt off the present
grandstand, which cost some £BOOO, before rushing
Into sufth a large and useless expenditure as £6CKX)
for a pavilion ; and, to cap the matter, they pur-
pose having no less than four billiard tables in the
building. This is worse than a farce on a cricket
ground, as many who go out for an afternoon’s
practice will no doubt find the doth more fasci-
nating than the sward, and after getting their few
minutes with the bat, will go in for a game of
pool in preference to bowling or fielding. If
the ground was owned by private speculators
they would naturally make as big a dividend as
they could, but as it was placed in the hands of
trustees presumably in the Interest of cricketers,
the players should certainly have some little con-
sideration shown them. It tho trustees get more
money than they know what to do with out of the
ground, it could be put to a better use in forming
a new ground, or encouraging junior cricket, than
in building a showy pavilion fitted with the latest
improvements in bar-rooms and billiard-tables.
And, by the way, we do not think a test case has
even been tried as to whether the Ground Com-
mittee can enforce payment from the public on
part of their own domain.
There are a whole lot of sports in town
now; Frank Hewitt, the lightning hundred-
yarder, and George Williams, the N.Z. champion
light-weight, amongst them. Wo have always
loved Frank for himself; and, if we had not done
that, we should certainly have adored him be-
he was a pedestrian. Runners have always had a
corner in our hearts since wo backed a man once
to beat another in a three-hundred yards spin at
Botany. They started off in fine style, but, to our
surprise, we saw the pace getting gradually
slower. At last, amidst a storm of curses, it
dwindled down to a slow trot. They were shoulder
to shoulder when a few yards from the goal, and,
as the state of affairs had, of course, dawned on
the spectators, suspense was breathless as to which
would be clever enough to lose the match. Sud-
denly there was a shout! Our man had lain down
on the track with his ear flve Inches from the tape!
Jockeys we love equally with pedestrians. They
are such splendid liars. If we were as rich as
Hilly, we would, like as he does, keep a jockey
for our own especial delectation. What! don’t
know Hilly ? Why, he is the greatest patron of
the sport in the Southern Hemisphere.” (Or thinks
he is.) He is never seen without a jockey by his
side, and it is rumoured that he wears another on
his watch-chain. But about George Williams.
Well, he tells us he has come from Maoriland
covered with glory: he has ridden forty winners
there in one season, and sighs for fresh worlds to
conquer. He rides 6 st. 12 lb., and is economical to
travel, as he can curl up in his employer’s hat.
George is over here for the next season’s racing,
and is passing his time (till he gets a mount) by
playing with Billy Freeman for terrier pups.
What I—don’t you know Billy Freeman? Why,
this is the big “ Kurrajonger ” who polished the
tef selated at Tattersail’s with Joe Thompson,
the Leviathan— once hima°lf a member of the P.R.;
and Joe had to be taken away at night, in wadding,
to Melbourne. Billy keeps a pub. now, and 1s we
understand on cool terms with his uncle because
he only make a £2OO book.
“ In the centre of O’Connor’s Kensington
rat-pit, last night,” says tho Philadelphia (U.S )
Times, “stood a stout, short-legged sheep, with
his neck encircled by a brass collar and his black
nose sheathed in a kid muzzle. His name is Brum,
and he was there to kill rats on a wager made by
his owner and trainer, * Stone ’ M’Allster. Between
fifty and sixty spectators were present. Last fall,
M’Alister, who is a sporting butcher, found three
dead rats in Brum’s pen. A day or two later, he
saw the sheep kill a rat. That act saved Brum
from being converted into chops. His owner re-
solved to train him. Under training, Brum 1m-
f »roved so rapidly that M’Alister made five matches
n which the sheep was to kill rats against time.
The first match came off last night (April 9), M’Alis-
ter wagering $lOO that the sheep would take the
lives of forty rates in sixty minutes. In the betting
the odds were against the sheep, and M’Alister and
two or three friends made wagers right and left.
Georgs Tatnell was chosen referee and time-
keeper, and at 9 o’clock the forty rats were emptied
out of cages into tho pit. The rats scampered
about the pit, the referee called time, and M’Alis-
ter let go of Brum and vaulted out of tho pit, leav-
him muzzled. ‘The muzzle! the muzzle!
lake off the muazle. Stone!’ shouted half-a-dozen
™. e p. ‘He don’t kill ’em with his mouth,’ replied
MAI later, seating himself complacentlj r on the
railing of the pit, and adding, * That sheep ’ll foo
you ail. So it proved, The sheep, without paying
the slightest attention to the crowd, made two
leaps to the corner of the pit. in which a dozen or
more rats were huddled. Then, raising himself
upon his hind legs, he brought the carefully-
sharpened hoofs of his fore feet down like a flash
in the pile of rats. This act was repeated live
times in aim off as many seconds, and the dead
bodies of eight rats lay on the floor. Facing
about. Brum gave a shrill blast and darted across
the pit to another nest of rats. There he repeated
the stamping, and strewed the pit with dead
rodems. At the end of nine minutes there were
but thirteen rats alive in the pit. These Brum
chased with the pertinacity and determination of
S' bull-dog, and killed them one by one. The
fortieth rat was slaughtered in exactly thirty-four
minutes from the moment Brum was loosed,
oeveral times during the match rats fastened their
teeth in the leather muzzle, but the sheep easily
shook them off.” Rat-tling yarn—rat-tllng lie!
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Aramac (Queensland) Races, June 11
Malden Plato—Little Dick 1. Orphan 2. Corin-
thian Plate-Fleur de Lis 1, 'traveller 2. Flying
■ ? n^ l u?^r? p^c ’^ latlon L Warden 2. Ladles’ Brace-
-ItTChieftain 1, Fleur de Lis 2, Perioanla 3. Tow n
? ommy Dodd walked over Mr. Tucker,
of Cardonness, has promised a cup, valued at 25
guineas, to be competed for at the next Hunter
Kiver Amateur Race meeting. ..Mr. Cavanagh.
well-known in connection with the Australian and
Indian trade in horses, is now on a visit to Otago
N. Z., for the purpose of instituting a direct trade
In horses between Maoriland Colony and India
Mr. vv. Pearson has determined to again put Com-
motion into training....At Newtown, A.Forsyth
was defeated by H. M’Crawley in 100 yards spin for
a Q l?Fu a ?l de - • the Blackall Rifle Club meeting
on 21th May, W. H. Campbell won the Cup, and
R.Lane won the bracelet for Miss M. Lane... In
Victoria, the Donald Dinnle combination is doing
the provinces..... The only New Zealand horses
nominated for the Melbourne Cup appear to be
Oudeis, Liverpool, Bskatos, and Radames.
• • •
The wife of the well-known cricketer. Dr,
Brlsto? r Eng di6d ° n Maroh 301 at Thornbury, near
Political points
“ ru “o«red that Prince Albert Victor
of Wales will, on attaining’ his majority, be raised
U "yal rrtahV!Sr“r, Albert V ‘ Ct ° r e “"“»
The Legislative Council have eaten their
ag^\u l t the Legislative Assem-
o«>yT3Tif^ia= alacr ity Which reminds one somewhat
°p somewhat of the ’coon who came down
?fii hIS OW u n m °tl°n. and still more of the black-
feUow, who, as he prudently dropped a hot iron
“amnfoo e i.» k oSOPhiC remark ’ ““ e L—y near
T , Tl *? Nooze, speaking of the Falkland
“ B vh n „ dB Vo°i^ er^ eB ,’ , with J ta inevitable inaccuracy:
, Tbe Falkland Isles have rarely been beard of
hitherto. They are of no commercial or political
importance to die mother country, and have not
even been dignified with a Governor,” &c. &c. As
a matter of fact, the Government of the Falkfand
Islands is vested in a Governor (Thomas^Kerr)
CiiiXl coSSS""' 8 CoUDoII a " d •
The late Duke of Richmond, when Lord-
Lleutenant of Ireland, and drunk, knighted a
Dublin publican, one Thady Cuff. When His Ex-
ceUonoy sobered up he wanted to back out. and
offered Cuff a pension for distinguished meritif
he would consent. Cuff was willing, but Lady
Cuff wouldn’t hear of it, and the distinction hadto
stand. We believe Sam Griffith, of Queensland
was sober when he chose Groom for Speaker, ana
Mike Ready for a magistrate, which seems to Indi-
cate that the Duke of Richmond had to get drunk
to attain the political level of Griffith in the nor-
mal condition. ur
London Figaro says an independent spirit
is prevalent among the seamen of the Royal Kavv
stationed at Portsmouth. They rarely salute their
own officers, never salute a military officer, and
S uv Volunteer officers. The Figaro says :-
“ Stringent measures should be taken to surmresH.
this incipient mutiny.*’ Nice country, England for
a Jolly Jack Tar, if Figaro’s ideas prevailed, in a
naval-garrison town lUe Portsmouth, a “liberty
man ’ would never be done saluting and cringing
The salute business is a survival of the practices
prevalent when the poorer classes were actual
serfs, and when a head held too high in presence
of a ‘‘superior ’’ was apt to get hacked off. It’s
quite enough that assistants in military, naval nr
ordinary commercial establishments should obey
instructions promptly, without crawling and
salaaming to every Jack-ln-offlco. England wants
men to fight her battles—not regiments of toadies.
A few weeks ago General Grant was on
the floor of the House at Washington when Mr
Randall, the Democratic leader (Grant is a Repub-
lican), moved a recess in order to enable the mem-
bers to pay their respects to the distinguished
visitor. The motion was carried, and the Congress-
men filed past where the General stood, each
shaking hands with him and offering hearty con-
gratulations that a recent accident sustained by
1m was no more than it had proved. Amongst
the members were thirty or forty men who wore
the grey during the rebellion, one of them being
a ? olon r£i who loBt hls rl » ht arm a t the battle
of Shilo. The greeting of the Southerners were
quite as warm as those of the Republicans of the
North, and each seemed to vie with the other in
showing respect to the distinguished soldier and
statesman. Verily the blue and the grey have
joined hands across the “ bloody chasm,” and it Is
now time that the bloody shirt” shall be for ever
ruled out of American politics.
Our noble Commander-in-Chief will do
well to note the tone of the press, even In Great
Britain, relative to ornamental military officers,
Instead of doggedly attempting to introduce into
this free colony the nepotic favouritism he has
learned in the atmosphere of English and Russian
courts. This is how a London paper comments on
the circumstance of a soldier’s baby having died
of want, and his wife of consequent suicide “So
long as we have a cclebate and underpaid army, so
long will the public be harassed with tales like the
one we have quoted. But this is not all, for if the
sham soldiers of the army, including the Duke of
Cambridge and the pretty ornamental officers,
were dealt with in a manner they deserve, there is
little doubt that the whole of the private soldiers
might be paid a reasonable sum. But as matters
stand, the private does all the fighting, and re-
ceives but a tithe of the pay. We have had quite-
UNPEELING.
“AND WHAT DID THE DOCTOR SAY?”
“TOLD ME TO TAKE EXERCISE— EXERCISE, FANCY—AND BECOME A FELLER WITH
MUSCLES, P’RAPS. INFERNAL BAD TASTE IN THE DOCTOR, I CALL IT !!”


THE GOMPAGNONI CATERI
(LIMITED), '
Caterers to the 1
SPECIAL FACILITIES FOR BALL SUPPERS. HAMPERS FO
PARTIES SUPPLIED. SPACIOUS RANQUBTIN
PERSONAL SUPERINTENDENCE GUARANTEED.
Luncheon and Smoking Lounge. All Goods are Guaranteed of tl
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, I
Tlo.e KeliaTbl©
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos!
( HAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
advt
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
SMITH ORGAN.
CRAMPTOjT & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET
UD METALLIC SLATES OE IB!
MAKE
ABSOLUTELY THE BEST ROOFING KNOWN.
It is light, ornamental, cheap, and durable. Is used, and very
highly approved of, by the English Government Departments and
by the Royal Engineers.
References given to Sydney architects and builders by whom it has been already used
wtth unqualified approval and success.
AWARDED THE GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION OF 187*.
Before using any other roofing material, call and inspect the above at
287 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE SPECIAL CLUB BICYCLE
FOR 1884,
Is ahead off all
Competitors.
OURTbICYCLES have the
LARGEST SALE, and give
the Best Satisfaction, of
any machines made.
Our Prices Lowest.
Our Terms are the
Easiest, and our sys-
tem of business en-
sures perfect satisfac-
tion Customer.
Write to us,
OB
Call on us.
jnMARTIN & copy..
389 GEORGE! STREET. SVDNKV (Opposite Royal Hotel).
enough of popinjay mllitalres, and the time has
now arrived tor bringing to the front the men
who in time of peace have to live on next to
nothing, and who during war bear the hard knocks.
Mr. Labouchere, M.P., bucked up with his
usual pluck when the vote of £36,603 for the main-
tenance and repair of the Royal Palaces was before
the Commons:—The extravagances of Marie An-
toinette never reached the point Indicated by the
number and expense of these Royal pleasure
houses. The Queen insists upon the nation main-
taining, either for her personal enjoyment or as
lodging-houses for her poor German relations,
some score of palaces, among which are Hampton
Court, St. James's Palace, Windsor Castle, Pem-
broke Lodge. Bushey House, Bast Sheen Cottage,
Kensington Palace, Thatched House, White Lodge,
Frogmore House, Clarence House, Buckingham
Palace, Kew Palace, Holyrood Palace, Cumberland
Lodge, Adelaide Lodge, and others. Of these, the
Queen, in reality, only occupies Windsor Castle,
between which and Osborne and Balmoral, which
are private property, she divides her time. The
remainder are asylums for indigent foreigners and
toadying members of the aristocracy. There are a
number of additional charges of an extraordinary
kind in this connection. The repairs to tha Royal
Mews at Pimlico cost an average of £l3OO annually.
The Royal Mews cover three and a-quarter acres
of London; 230 persons permanently live there,
many having official residences; there is accom-
modation for 147 horses, and more than a hundred
horses are always stabled there; there are seven-
teen large coach - houses, containing between
seventy and eighty carriages; there is a large
riding-school, and so forth. Here is a pretty es-
tablishment for the nation to support, considering
that the Sovereign visits the capital for two or
three days only each year.
The Otago Daily News, speaking of a
coalition of Sir George Grey and Major Atkinson,
says, all Innocently There are positively no
political issues between the parties. The feud is
almost entirely one of personal feeling, of haughty
pride and inexorable jealousy on one side, and of
insatiable love of power on the other. The only at-
traction which politics have for Sir George would
vanish on the day when he threw in his lot with
his enemies, or allowed his followers to fraternise
with them. On the other hand Major Atkinson
would certainly never brook any real division ef
power with Sir George Grey.” And concludes.
“ In short, the whole proposal is an absurdity, and
it is astonishing to us that it should ever have
been gravely discussed.” Humph I We heard this
of Robertson and Parkes, and of Berry and Ser-
vice, and, we, at least, have ceased to be astonished
at any coalition. Where it is not the hunger for
cash it is the hunger for power. The hunger for
the public welfare is not only not known to politi-
cians, but they do not seem capable of grasping its
meaning. The colonial politician, in the world of
politics, is like a half-dead lobster In a fish-shop
window. His eyes protrude, and he appears to
look a long way into space. But the observer
notices that all the time, blind as that lobster is to
his surroundings, his everlasting claws are sway-
ing round all the time, anywhere, everywhere—
and the thing he can grab will be considerably
squeezed before the grasp is relaxed. And in the
formation of coalitions we always picture a heap
of small lobsters with two big ones on top. Which-
ever gets the biggest grab is strongest. The
smaller lobsters are the ordinary members. The
rules of coalition - mongering are catoh-as-oatoh-
can.
A Mr. W. Stone, M, A. of Cambridge, has
iust published a pamphlet, “Shall we annex
!gypt,” in which he argues that we should. At
the very commencement of the Egyptian trouble,
when all the humbug newspapers were clattering
in unison that we were interfering to prevent the
national movement in Egypt out of pure benevo-
lence, The Bulletin pointed out that these pre-
tences were bosh—that the interference was in the
interests of usurers, and that it would inevitably
drift towards annexation. Well, the blather about
benevolence is smitten almost dumb by the
slaughters of Egyptians at Tel-el-Kebir, and of
Egyptians and Soudanese since, and annexation is
now openly advocated. To do Mr, Gladstone and
his Cabinet justice, they seem to be struggling
against being driven to accomplish the crime their
own early actions rendered almost inevitable. But
the national cupidity has been aroused, and the
Government will find it difficult to control the
devil they have raised. Referring to a speech by
the Home Secretary, Mr. Stone writes coolly:
“ In Sir William Harcourt’s recent speech he
raises the question of morality in connection with
the subject. He says that we have no right to take
Egypt, and that the taking of Cyprus was a bad
example. The question of morality in the pro-
gress of an empire, though perhaps present to the
people, is seldom publlely indulged in by states-
men. Expediency in politics has always been a
more powerful motive than morality. . . If the
taking of Cyprus were a bad example, so must
have been the taking of India, of Canada, 'and of
every other colony or possession we have. Had
England’s great statesmen In the past been actu-
ated by similar motives to those advanced by the
Home Secretary, our empire would consist solely
of England, without even Ireland; and if it were
possible to really imagine that such a policy had
always been in force, the conclusion is inevitable
that our little Island would long ago have been
absorbed into the dominions of another Power. I
believe it is a great mistake to make Egypt an
affair of party politics: the annexation of Egypt
by some European Power is one of those inevitable
Incidents which events are surely bringing to
pass. In such an important crisis, the party-politic
side of the question should be dropped, and Eng-
lishmen as Englishmen, not as Conservatives or
Liberals, should consider calmly whether the argu-
ments for our annexing Egypt are stronger than
the arguments for leaving the country alone. I
believe now that nearly ail will agree that half-
and-half-measures are useless.” In other words,
England has never acted on the principles of
morality in extending her empire—if she had done
so, her empire could never have been created: and
it would bo asinine folly for her now to change
her tactics and cease to be a common robber.
A cablegram, dated June 10th, stated that
“ Earl Granville, Foreign Secretary, has forwarded
a diplomatic note, couched in very strong terms,
in which he insists upon the Dutch Government
accepting the mediation of Great Britain In the
difficulty between the Dutch and Acheen, in con-
sequence of the detention by the latter of officers
and crew belonging to the British ship Nisero.,
shipwrecked on the coast of Acheen, a town of
Sumatra.” This Nisero affair is very awkward.
A shin’s crew, wrecked on the coast, are detained
in misery by the Rajah of a district in Acheen,
Java, who has laughed at a Dutch expedition sent
to bring him to reason-or to make a show of
doing so-and has derided a similarly futile attempt
bv a British man-of-war. As a matter of fact, the
mitch were for years at war with the Acheenese,
and never managed to subdue them,.although they
sovereignty over their territory, and are
oonSauentlyresponsible for their acts. To
to rescue the crew of the Nisero would
nrobably involve fa fresh Acheen war, and the
Wnteh are pretty full up of the last one, which
cost them endless expense and great numbers.of
troons without procuring any counterbalancing
advantage. But. as regards the triangular duel now
betwixt Dutch, English, and Acheenese,
the situation is additionally tangled. Vanity
pair says that: “the history of Acheen fur-
nishes one of the most shameful episodes in
Elfish history. On the 22nd April, 1819, there
was made between the English Government and
the King of Acheen a Treaty of “perpetual peace,
friendship, and defensive alliance,” whereby it
wm stipulated that neither of the two contracting
should ,‘give any aid or assistance to the
enemies of the other.’ This was a good and neces-
® __ Treaty for it secured the control of both
thore?of those Straits of Malacca which are the
rate of commerce between Europe and the China
leaf -but in 1871 the Liberal Ministry then m
office undertook to violate the Treaty with the
King of Acheen, by giving categoncal per-
misslon to the Dutch to conquer the Achesneso
Srritorv without let or hindrance from England.
WhafwL received in exchange for this was the
Son St Elmina on the Gold Coast, or. in other
the Ashantee War. And now it appears
tha? incite of tno Treaty of 1819 being still in j
Science, the English Government, not content
with having disregarded Its engagements under
the Treaty, is about to take a fresh step, and to
join the Dutch In the very attack upon the Achee-
nese which they are bound to resist. It should be
said that, from 1871 to the present time, the Dutch
have proved entirely unable to subdue Acbeen,
and that this projected sending of a British force
moans nothing more nor less than that the English
Government is to assist them to do what they have
been unable to do themselves. If the Acheenese
are masters in their own territory, the Dutch have
no right there; if, on the other hand, the Dutch
are now the sovereigns of Aoheen, it is they, and
not we, who are bound to rescue any crew that
may be there detained. The truth is that the
Dutch have no right in Acheen whatever; and
that It is at this day the duty of England, under
the Treaty of 1819, not to send expeditions to
assist them, but to help the Acheenese to drive
them out of the country, and thereby to regain
the lost command of the Straits of Malacca.”
New York is the centre of Irish agitation
in America. The majority of the organised Irish-
men are members of the National League. The
League is in sympathy with Mr. Parnell, and is
absolutely opposed to the use of violence in any
shape. The leader of this branch of Irish activity
is John Devoy, editor of the Irish Nation. The
dynamite party are divided into two classes, those
who do the talking and those who do the work.
The relics of the old Fenian Brotherhood are
represented in New York by the Manhattan
Brotherhood, led by O’Donovan Rossa. Rossa is a
tall, large, thoroughly Irish-looking man. For a
little more than three years he has been editing
the United Irishman. Rossa was never supposed
to favour violence until this last trouble at the
railway stations in London led to the discovery
that Joyce, his lieutenant, had purchased the re-
volvers which may have been used in exploding
dynamite. The United Irishman is, of course,
raising a fund, called‘‘The Resources of Civilisa-
tion.” Rossa allows himself to he called in his
own paper “ the chief of the dynamite warfare.”
The most active leader of the dynamite party is
Patrick Ford, editor of the Irish World, a person
of some standing and intelligence. Ford is believed
to advocate extreme opinions in order to promote
the circulation of his paper. Ford also has a
‘‘fund.” He calls it “The Emergency Fund.”
The object of this fund is to aid the active forces
on the other side in every practical mode of war-
fare for the recovery of Irish national independ-
ence. Ford takes the position editorially that the
destruction of property by the dynamiters is only
a blow struck in retaliation; the “ two countries
are at war,” and nearly any mode of attack is
justifiable. The actual work of the dynamite
party is carried on by emergency clubs, which are
formed under harmless names, such as the Emer-
ald Club, the John O'Brien Association, and so on.
Ford is said to be the originator of the plan of
their organisation. Circles are formed of ten men
each, each one electing a delegate to higher circle,
and a number of the latter electing delegates to a
higher circle. This process is carried on until the
highest authority is reached. Every man who
joins one of these clubs promises to obey any
order received from the supreme body. The
organisation extends all over the country. Over
In Brooklyn is the Dynamite Club. Its leading
spirit is an Irishman by the name of Rogers, who
assumes the title of Professor Mezzeroff, and who
professes to give instruction in the manufacture
and use of dynamite. Rogers keeps a bar-room on
13th-Btreet, which is a favourite resort of young
Irishmen. It is doubtful if he ever made a peund
of explosive material in his life. Why should he,
when there are about 10,000 tons of dynamite in its
various forms made in the United States yearly,
and anyone can buy it who wants to ? Neverthe-
less he talks learnedly about explosives, and mean-
while makes as honest a living as can be made in
the bar-business by selling beer and whisky to
those who gather to hear him talk. Mezzeroff is
tho head of what is called the Scientific School of
the Fenian Brotherhood-a big expression, but
with nothing behind it.
The Irish colony of Paris is generally
divided into Les Aneieng Irlandais, or descendants
of Irish parents, and the Irish themselves.
Les Anciens Irlandais belong to the aristocratic
class, and are Royalists in French politics.
They aro numerous in its capital. Viscount
O’Neill de Tyrone is one of tho more prominent
personages of the body, and claims kindred in
direct line with the great Hugh of that name. The
other wing of the Irish colony is stronger than is
generally supposed. It comprises men who were
prominently Identified with the Fenian movement
in 1865, and who still have faith in its ultimate
success. There are men, also, who have gone in
advance of that movement, and advocate the
dynamite doctrine. In addition to these are a few
Repealers, orO’Connellites, who cherish the notion
of seeing an independent Parliament in College-
green some fine day inaugurated amid the plaudits
of a leyal population. The Irish Parisians who
dream such unoffending dreams are in a minority,
and belong to the antediluvian school of Irish
politics. There is a goodly number of Irish dyna-
miters on the banks of the Seine just now. In-
spector Moser, of Scotland Yard, made a searching
investigation of the dynamite conspiracy in Paris
some weeks ago, but failed to discover anything,
simply because he had opponents to meet who
knew from childhood the ins and outs of secret
movements. He has been foiled in his efforts at
every step, and all he could say on his return to
headquarters was that he only found some four-
teen or sixteen dynamiters in Paris, and firmly
believed that the contingent did not number
more. John O’Leary, the ex-editor of the Irish
People, has resided in Paris ever since his release
from prison in 1870. He has no connection, direct
or indirect, with the dynamiters. James Stephens,
the founder of Fenlanlsm, resides also in Paris,
contributing letters to American papers. General
M‘Adaras, though not a Fenian in the precise
signification of the word, is one in f ympatby. A
f raduate of Saint Cyr, he served under the East
ndia Company, and had attained the rank of
oelonel when the company’s soldiers were com-
pelled to resign their posts or take the oath of
allegiance to the Que<*n. M'Adaras resigned rather
than make a sworn profession of loyalty. When
the Franco-German war broke out. it was owing
chiefly to his efforts that the Irish Legion was
organised: M‘Adaras himself, however, fought in
Chanzy’s army. The French Government nomin-
ated him brigadier-general in recognition of his
services. These three gentlemen are the most
prominent politicians of tho Irish revolutionary
school which does not include the dagger or dvna-
mite in their programme. The Repealers in Paris
are “ few and far between.” Dr. M'Carthy, the
medical attendant at the Irish College, is one of
them, and Mr. J. P. Leonard is another. Sir Charles
Gavan Duffy, another Repealer, often quits the
solitude of his chateau near Nice to share the
companionship of Mr.tfLeonard and others of a
similarly congenial disposition. Before the Land
League was founded, these gentlemen were form-
ing a project for a Repeal movement, but this
project had to be abandoned, when it was seen
that the people rallied in such strength around the
banner unfurled in response to the appeal of
Davltt, Egan, and Brennan. There are a hundred
students in the Irish College of Paris, all of whom
are Irish by birth, and are studying tor the priest-
hood. The superiors of tho institution are also
Irish by birth, but they profess little sympathy
with the present movement headed bv Mr. Parnell.
Its president, Dr. M'Namara, is a Whig, and be-
longs to the coterie of which Lord O Hagan is the
figure-head, and Mr. Errlngton the prophet. The
Irlsh-American bar in the Rue Royale is one of
the favourite haunts of Irishmen in Paris. Here
detectives and dynamiters jostle each other. The
same class of people frequent the New fork bar.
The “ Irish Ambassador, ’ James Cullen, a sturdy
Wicklow man, has his “Shamrock” drinking
establishment near the Elysde Palace, and is one of
the Irish curiosities of Paris. His bar is noted for
being a rendezvous of Irishmen who make sterling
stump speeches and can sing good Irish songs.
• • *
Vanity Fair summarizes the Egyptian
and Soudan affairs as :-The slaughter of half-
a dozen thousand people,— with whom we are not
at war —in an expedition the object of which no
one is able to define.... The Sultan has conferred
on the Crown Prince of Austria the order of the
Chefkat. The thing sounds like a sneeze... Alfonso
of Spain has ins ured his life.,


JjIURNITURB SHOW BOOMS.
BRADLEY NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
ALL FURNITURE, HATBTANDS, snd
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
Library furniture, centre and side
TA.BLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, In EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion; well worthy of
Inspection.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, Just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Furniture.— the largest stock in
THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ARBLB-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete In various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Grvat variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney,
Eight-pound Bedroom suites.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, cheat drawers, washstand, dreasing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Whatnots, from 90s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, fram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from Kh 6dl; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 20s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 255; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s: Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
£
£
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
_ _ _ strong, and durable, Trichord full
impass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, In handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Blaok and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 86a. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CCASIONitiVTABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, Ac.
/"I HIFFONNIBR WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\J Just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OConnell-street.
AST OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered In the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY,
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
1
RA WING-ROOM
A GREAT V
ces, from 13s 6d
STYLES.
IHAIR BE DSTifAD 8, forming CHAIR;
j LOUNGE or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
rpOILBT PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE
JL with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
-ROOM 8
complete, 40 Guineas.
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two loaves; LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GBNT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Mar one Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 6 feet long and up to 20 feet.
D
I ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIL-
Patented.
Sk
"’V
EC
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It Is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. Ike above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained. Instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterle and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
sive assortment la Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
XjIRAMEWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
JP TURE, Handsome and Massive, in Oak-
Walnut. and Mahpgany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrasa;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell-street.
WABHSTANDB, with marble, 3Ss each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 30s: Verandah Chaim,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
Bentwood furniture.—a very ©ompiet*
Assortment; best make, ion eat pries*.
SOCIAL
It was the third annual ball of the Owl Club which
wo allude to in this frivolous manner, and it was
th« largest they have yet had, close on 800 being
present. Mr. Menser (hon. sec.) was unable to
attend, but the other officers worked well; danc-
ing began about 9 o'clock, and the band of thirteen,
provided by Mr. Charles Huenerbeln (musical
director), was a special feature. This was natural;
for music ia more prominent in the Club proceed-
ings than anything else, notwithstanding its motto
of Literature, Science, and Drama. If Music were
substituted for Science, the motto would be more
exact. Mr. Franz Huenerbeln was M.C. Callaghan
catered fairly. Instead of the small room of last
season, there is now a fine large apartment open-
ing out of the vestibule for supper-room, which
was immensely convenient, though more chairs
would have been useful. A separate room was
used for dispensing that class of beverage which
' high authority says “ stlngeth like an adder.” We
don’t think it can be quite so bad as that; or
else people seem to stand stinging pretty well.
There were spacious card, smoking, and retiring-
rooms. The rendezvous were called “perches,”
with alliterative names, such as Eagle’s eyrie.
Cockatoo’s cave, Red Robin’s rest. Parrot’s perch.
Lyre’s lair, and Nightingale’s nest. It was
from the nightingale’s nest we took our view,
so as to write an on-nest criticism. We presume
the Noos man would naturally occupy the lair. A
table with the symbolic owls on it was at the head
of the hall, where the opening quadrille was led
off by Mr. G. W. Tate, president, and T. L. Clarke,
treasurer, Mrs Tate being tastefully attired in a
brilliant cardinal satin with white lace front.
Several gentlemen wore good fancy dresses, Mr.
Benson Lees appearing in an elaborate Magician’s
character, and Mr, De Groen as a Chinaman. There
was nothing strikingly new in the style of ladies’
attire, but skirts were more amplitudinous than
ever; and, as a rule, the smallest ladies seemed to
indulge in the most extensive additions, An ex-
ception, however, was Mias Groth, who was very
tall—in fact, a fine Instance of the groth of beauty
—her dress being an excellent combination of
cardinal satin and cream: her blonde sister wore
a cream veiling skirt, with satin bodice of
punch blue—which is like cornflower blue,
only more slatey. This punch almosts tempts
us to edge in a vile joke about judy ;
but then it wouldn’t be judy-cious, as
whenever we joke about people they always
happen to meet us afterwards, and want things
explained. But. anyhow, both these dresses were
exquisitely made. From Newcastle, were two
charming sisters, Misses Llpman; one in cardinal
and pink, and one in black trimmed with dark
pink. A younger Miss Patrick wore blue satin
and skirt of tiny flounces; Miss Morris, of Peter-
sham, pink; Miss Cohen, a beautiful blue; Miss
Leap, of Woollahra, a sleeveless white satin, with
Searls and ivy leaves; Miss Harrison, a fancy
ress, as Romp; Miss M’Fadden, old gold ottoman,
with gauzy draping, dotted with steel-coloured
beads; Miss Bertha Baldock, Mue broche and gold
ferns; Mrs. Mlnett, a fancy toilet of Bouge-et-Nfrlr
—we fancy that was it; we wouldn’t like to an-noir
by any mistake; Mrs. Decent, mauve satin and
tulle; Miss Payne, a zebra-striped bodice in dark
blue and old gold, over straw satin skirt; Miss
Bayfield, pink cashmere and broche, with pearled
collar ; Miss Lee, grass-green corded bodice and
flowered darker skirt; Mrs. Ponder, a crushed
strawberry broche, the skirt hung with fine
bl ick lace, and studded with bouquets; Miss
Timmins, garnet satin ; Mrs. Wyatt, a hand-
some fancy dress; Miss Rose fairly rose to
the occasion in rose and crimson satin ; Mrs.
Richardson, a dainty white satin and lace, the
flounced front hung with ruby pompons ; Miss
Emanuel, of Surry Hills, a sleeveless ruby velvet
bodice and blue veiling, with long streamers from
the shoulder ; Miss Kron.l of Moore Park, a very
pretty blue broche ; Miss Walsh, black lace cos-
tume livened with triooloured knots of ribbon ;
and Mrs. J. H. Davies wore the stately dress of
Marie Stuart. A pretty toilet was displayed by
the slim, graceful figure of Miss Tottie Bradley,
teru satin bodice, and a skirt of flowered muslin
with a good deal of extensiveness about it, hair up
and decked with a coquettish white feather. An
extremely stylish costume was worn by Mrs.
Moulton, lavender broche bodice, cream lace skirt-
front and full waterfall back ot spotted tulle, band
of massive gold on the upper arm. Two dainty
little dancers were from Philllp-street—Miss Abra-
hams, in blue broche and nun’s veiling, and her
sister in ruby velvet and pink veiling; both
toilets being specimens of beauty—but not of
charity, because that is never “ puffed up.” Miss
Annie Payne was most attractive la a low sleeveless
?ink silk, a style which few would be so beauti-
ully qualified to wear. A pair of effective
costumes wore from Belmore Park, bodice
and sash being of buttercup broche, over flounced
cream lace skirts —colours showing brunettes to
advantage. In a deep crimson satin bodice, the
front of skirt being of gold broche, draped heart-
shape, with streamers from the arm, Miss Kurts
looked imperial In one of the richest costumes at
the ball. Miss Cunningham, all in black lace, con-
ceived the tasteful idea of garlanding herself all
over with real white camellias, and for a while she
was irresistible; but, later on, we discovered a
gallant cavalier unfixing her ephemeral trim-
mings—they were fading and crushed. M iss Creo
Stanley, a nice girl of considerable dramatic
power, looked well in cream cashmere; and Mrs.
Cantor handsome and pleasant as ever in a black
velvet and rich blue toilet. Then a charming cos-
tume was Miss Klein’s cream satin, bunched be-
hind and flounced in front, enriched with pompons
and other works of art, and altogether one which
would “ inklein our hearts ” towards the wearer. A
perfect gem was the fancy cardinal satin costume of
sfi«s Katie Adams, with network and strings of
large pearls; it and she were so pretty that we for-
get all the rest; and, to borrow expressions from
Gerald Massey, the lady might stand as a type of
the beauty of Greece the grand,” and her cos-
tume represent “ the splendour of regalest Rome.”
• ♦ •
Latterly, a slight change in the manner of
holding one another has become v6ry popular
among dancers. Ladles, instead of placing the
left hand on their partner’s shoulder, now inter-
lock their left arm in the gentleman’s right; and
the plan was adopted by so many at the last
Bachelors’ Assembly, Nlthsdale, as to be specially
noticeable. The style is comfortable, giving a
firm, light hold, and looks elegant. Mrs. Bentley
played on Friday, aided by a violin and cornet, and
there were nineteen dances. Costumes were very
pretty. A petite pianiste from a “ Point ” wore
blue satin with folds of salmon pink down the
front. A bright blue terry velvet and silver blue
trlmmlmr was attractive. Two Redfern sisters in
blue and one in sang-de-boeuf were popular; and
a cheery little visitor from Oxford-street in cream
cashmere looked bright and nloe. Black lace
over old gold garbed a splendid dancer irom the
Reservoir; and a sister wore a beautiful new style
cream dress with flowing skirts and tartan scarf.
Two William-street sisters were charming in danc-
ing as in singing; and two little black whlrlers
frem the Glebe devastated the sentimental young
men wholesale. Two namesakes were not related,
though both were capital dancers, and one dis-
played a very pretty dress of cream cashmere
with white jet trimming and heliotrope velvet
bands. But the toilet was less fascinating than
the wearer. Much admiration was bestowed on
the handsome wearer ef a rather striking dress—
Mack velvet skirt draped with finest white lawn,
the front embellished with white feathers, and the
effect excellent. Catering was satisfactory in
every way. Next month a second series ot four
assemblies will begin, and the list of members was
well filled last meeting.
• • *
Last Friday’s Social at Tattersall’s Hall
was as enjoyable as usual, thanks to the efforts of
Messrs. Pearce, Holt, and Co. A bout 70 were pre-
sent, and Shapter and two assistants did the music
for 15 dances, which concluded before midnight.
A married lady’s crimson and cream toilet was as
excellent as her dancing. A cream and black vel-
vet was also nice; and a pale blue broche from
Castlereagh-street took all the admiration that was
left after looking at its owner. A cardinal was as
bright as a cocoa-coloured costume was quiet, and
both were nice. A favourite dancer came from St.
Leonards la blue and ruby; and the emphatic type
of dancers was not entirely absent. The man who
wants plenty of space is an institution in every
ballroom, and, as he is often a really decent fellow
when not dancing, it would seem unkind to speak
of him harshly. But, when he persists in surging
round the room with his left elbow out like a
ship’s bowsprit, it's almost impossible to feel
friendly towards him.
•* * •
About ninety guests assembled at the
Randwick Council Hall on Wednesday, 11th in-
stant, when the monthly social was held. Dancing
commenced shortly after 8 o’clock, and as the
programmes, through some mistake, did not ar-
rive till a few minutes before that time, the usual
tactics of filling up beforehand could not be
adopted. When they did arrive there was a very
busy ten minutes of scribbling. Twenty dances
were numbered, and, with the addition of two
extra waltzes supplied by Miss Brewer and Mr. N.
Montague, were all done by a quarter-past mid-
night, allowing town visitors (of whom, as usual,
there was a large proportion) ample time to catch
the special tram. This tram is a great convenience,
for which the committee deserve thanks. The
floor was somewhat hard at first, but by dint of
continuous, and. In several instances, truly ener-
getic dancing, it was soon rendered comfort-
able ; while the music—though in the opi-
nion of many the waltzes were played too
fast—was good. A daughter of the Collector of
Customs (now a local resident) looked very nloe in
white with plaid silk sash, a pearl wreath on the
piled hair. From Emu Plains came a daughter of
the Treasurer, looking well in black, the velvet
body having a high collar lined with a row of small
f>earls. The belle of the evening was a tall young
ady (a frequent attendant at the socials) from
Roseneath, Woollahra, whom a flowing white
skirt, with flowered hand-painted cream satin
body, admirably suited, her dancing being parti-
cularly admired. Another good dancer from Glas-
nevln wore white with chenille pompons, and
floated like a fairy. A Marrlckvllfe young lady
wore a rich cream lace dress, with gold waistband,
and her programme filled rapidly. A belle from
Bathurst, wearing a low-necked black, with large
red roses, looked so nloe and danced so well, as did
also her sister in ruby velvet body and cream satin
skirt, that dances were at a premium. Mr. Walter
Bradley—who can stand before beauty as un-
daunted as he did before Booth—was amiable as
M.C., while Mr. G. G. Kiss, the honorary secretary,
looked after things generally. A light repast was
furnished by Cripps.
* • •
At the tea-meeting in Bt. John’s school-
room, the ladies rallied out. as the ladies of North
Balmain always do when tbe Incumbent is young,
good-looking, and single. The school was decked
with flags and ferns, and Mr. Kestle purveyed a
capital tea. Married ladies were assisted by those
who hope to be married, but haven’t managed it
yet; and beauty must have been evenly dis-
tributed, as all tables were full, but amongst the
fair bevy were particularly noticeable: a pretty
English face, two fair sisters at a table near the
door, and, on the opposite side, a dark and attrac-
tive lady. Curtiss Road, Snail’s Bay, and other
parts sent lady helps, and, after tea, the singing of
Mr. Deane, Mrs. Michellmore, and the choir was
appreciated by a large audience.
* • •
In Sydney the apparition has had but a
brief reign. It is true that even now you will see
an odd specimen of the beautiful being. With
wisp of towy hair trimly plastered over that part
ef his pin-like head which in ordinary people is
occupied by the brow—with mammoth collar and
microscopic necktie—he tries hard to develop the
characteristics which are supposed to indicate the
undefeated masher. But he never got a fair foot-
hold ; and now he is disappearing. He has always
been an exotic, of weakly growth—has always
worn an air of uncertainty as to whether ho
wasn’t here by mistake. He has been partly
tolerated, greatly pitied, and now, after struggling
along in his penitential collar through the long
hot summer months, he is going at last—crushed
beneath the combined Influence of climate and
popular contempt. Ta-ta, masher.
* * *
Mr. E. D. Toliemaohe, manager of the
Cotnpagnoni Catering Co., was entertained by his
employes at a complimentary ball on Thursday,
and a few friends were also present, making tbe
number up to nearly 100. The gentlemen’s dining-
room was set apart for dancing, and the ladies’
room for refreshments. The whole affair was
under the supervision of Mr. Buchan, the sub-
manager; and, of course, the fair Hebes, whom
the mercantile youth of the city try so earnestly,
and unsuccessfully, to mash every day, at 1 p.m.,
made themselves very attractive. Mr. Somers
provided music, and the dance ended at four
o’clock, after a thoroughly pleasant night.
• • •
Mr. Head’s quadrille assembly on the 9th
at Parramatta, was very nice, especially to the
ladies, as the stern sex were the more numerous,
and there were, consequently, no wallflowers The
bashful gentlemen, who could not secure partners,
formed useful supports to the walls. The assembly
was in the Masonic Hall, which is roomy and con-
venient, and with good music and floor, and a
courteous M.C. in Mr. A. Read, nothing more was
wanted but a few ladles. Among the attractions
were the tall owner of a flounced blue satin and
6cru, with lace sleeves; a good dancer from New-
town in blue broche; a petite lady in a pretty
claret breche; and a beautiful dancer from Cleve-
land-street, in a black toilet which indicated a
dainty figure. Some considered a local lady in
body and skirt of crushed strawberry satin and
I cream lace tunic, the belle. Midnight saw tbe end.
A recent novelty in South Melbourne was
a sheet and pillow ball. The Idea comes from
America. All the guests were enveloped, until
midnight, In vast calico bags, which were com-
posed of two sheets, with a pillow slip for each
arm; and the bedding thus used is, after the ball,
sent as a gift to some hospital. At the charity
ball in Melbourne, organized by Mrs. Mitchell, the
calico went to the Hospital for Incurables, which
thus acquired linen for about 80 beds. The scene
was weird and by no means pretty, being strongly
suggestive of a resurrection romp by a lot of
graveyard ghouls ; but at a given signal, all the
disguises were doffed, and the guests appeared in
ordinary ball costumes for the rest of the night.
• • •
Petersham’s second social, on Friday last,
was as good as the first, and enjoyed by over 100 of
as light-hearted a company as ever gathered in the
Town Hall. Many of the same dancers were there
again, and some of their costumes were pretty
enough, though Petersham girls, as a rule, don't
require embellishment. Sixteen items were on
the card, and Mr. Lewis, as M.C., was assiduous.
* *
Bt. Bridget’s Convent School, Coonamble,
was the scene of a bright little social gathering
last week, when a number of pupils made their
debut in a small impromptu theatre. Inclement
weather, but a large number of invited guests.
Miss Emma Crook, a dainty little fairy, tripped up
as you entered the door to offer a programme of
the night’s doings, and inside was a compact minia-
ture theatre, with drop scene (painted by one of
the Sisters), carpeted parquet, pit, and gallery.
“ Beauty and the Beast was acted, followed by a
comedy, and throughout the evening were songs,
instrumental music, &c. la the latter, Misses
Isaacs, Morgan, Polin, and Morris displayed their
talents; and in the play the chief characters wore
personated by Misses Hanson, Polin, Morgan, and
Morris, in a most creditable way. Miss Alice Isaacs
and Miss O’Halloran shone in the comedy of “ The
Happy Pair.” During an interval, the guests were
regaled at un petit souper by the Rev. Mother and
her Sisters. So, it was a good evening for the
Coonamble people.
* * *
The New Zealand Football Team was (or
were ? it’s sure to be wrong, either way), enter-
tained by the Southern Kugby Football Union at
dinner on Monday night at the Metropolitan
Hotel. A notable company was present, that warm
patron of the game, the Hon. B. Barton, being
chairman. After a really fine meal of numerous
courses had been disposed of, just as readily as the
New Zealanders disposed of us, Mr. Barton gave
the toast of the team. Captain W. Y Miller re-
plied in a happy vein, not devoid of feeling, and
ere sitting down proposed the N. 8. W. Team and
the three captains—Bayliss, Chapman, and Gra-
ham. Other toasts followed ; and a most convi-
vial and friendly time was spent. The N.Z. left
on Tuesday afternoon in the Wakatipu for their
home in the land of mountains and scrub.
»» » »
The fourth Newtown Assembly of the
season took place in the Oddfellows r Hall, on
Thursday night last. Ladies looked well, and
capital dancers came from Station-street. Music
was hardly as good as it has been, and the vocal
efforts of some gentlemen who undertook to sing
a hidden chorus behind the scenes was a brilliant
failure—Monday week, there was a good festivity
at Lower Fort-street, dancing merrily kept up
from 8 till 3 o’clock. Daughter of the hostess
looked nice in ruby velvet and flowered silk. Two
sisters of Prlnces-street were charming in cream
and cardinal, and cream and china-blue respec-
tively, showing fine figures to advantage. An
Blizabeth-street lady looked attractive in black
silk and white lace. Music and catering both gave
satisfaction On Friday last, the Deutscher Club
of Sydney had a social evening, when a number of
visitors gathered to listen to a musical programme.
The ball was brightened with decorations, and
ladies added the attraction of their presence. A
mask ball is announced by the Club, to come off in
a few days—A plain and fancy ball was held by
the Goulburn Oddfellows on the 13tb Inst., but ft
wns very sparsely attended, the belle being a
young lady in cream satin and tarletan. A Masonic
dance comes off 500n....0n 11th June, a ball took
place at Durran Durrah, near Braidwood, and the
belle wore satin in two shades of brown. In many
cases, ladies bad to escort themselves. A remark-
able fact was not a single bmober boot was worn....
Recently the first fancy dress ball that has been
held in Cooktown took place there, in aid of the
local School of Arts. It was successful, nearly a
hundred fancy characters being present.... A dance
occurred in the Temperance Hall, Wollongong, in
the first week of June, when some sixty local lads
and lasses had a good time, under the managing
care of Messrs. Hegarty and Adams. The Argus
man doesn’t venture to enlarge on the costumes,
because, being unmarried, “ it wouldn’t look well
to know too much about ladles’ attire,” so he lays
himself out for valuable criticism on the music,
which he says couldn’t be expected “to catch the
hang of everybody’s ear.” Anyone who has seen
the Wollongong people’s ears would wonder how
anything could ever miss them.... Wednesday last
week, the Bywong Club, Botany, had a garden
party and night dance to mark its first anniversary.
Over two hundred were present in the Sir Joseph
Banks pleasure grounds; and at 7p.m. a banquet
was held, Mr. J. B. Olllffe, M.P., being chairman.
Mr. K. Scott proposed the Club; and, after rising
from table, the gay dance was prosecuted until one
o’clock in the morning, when a special train took
visitors back to town. Frank Smith catered the
refreshments, and made a modest speech when
they toasted him Theannual Wild Flower Bhew
at Manly is announced for September next. This
time, in aid of the Congregational Church—To-
night (Thursday), a return party will be given to
Miss Cutler in the Parramatta Masonic Hau— Mr.
C. B. Martin has been eostatiolslng West Maitland
by Shakesperian recitals... The Owl Ball dancers
had the Joy of waltzing to the “ Dead March in
Saul,” at midnight. It “took well.”....Last week,
when Miss Bains became Mrs. L. Levy, there was
a nice party at Winstead, Paddington. Some fifty
guests danced till after 3 o’clock to a fire brigade
band. Bride looked Hainsome. of course—Mr.
E. P. Carr, late manager of A.J.B. Bank, Tenter-
field, was banqueted there, and a testimonial of
150 sovs. collected for him. He goes to Maitland.
Granville bazaar very successful; Mr. Ritchie
donated a prize plough. Miss Metcalfe was useful
and willing at the piano, and the ladies generally
effective. But to advertise the local kiln by put-
ting a brick among the satin aprons and baby’s
woollen socks was an idea worthy of the Granvilllan
brain.... Hanlan bangles are the rage in Melbourne.
Albury Private Assembly was held in the
Mechanics’ Institute on the 4th June, dancing till
midnight, good attendance of members Bre-
warrina has its winter dances, in two sections; for,
as in all other great cities, the society of Brewar-
rina is composed of heaven-ordained nobility and
ordinary human beings —Last Thursday, at St.
Mary’s, Balmain, Mr J. H. Lay cock was mar-
ried to Miss E. A. Broomfield, eldest daughter
of Captain Broomfield, Darling-street, who is
one of the oldest residents of Balmain. The
church was decorated, and a large attendance
witnessed the ceremony. Misses Alice, Millie, and
Ethel Broomfield (sisters of the bride) accompanied
her to the altar, dressed in cream costumes; and
the bride wore pearl broche and satin, bouqueted
with flowers and trimmed with lace. Breakfast at
Captain Broomfield’s and honeymoon began at
Botany Bay The Sydney Lyceum are to nave a
Jubilee shortly, which will take the form of a
azaar, commencing 28th June, and lasting several
days, and a fancy dress ball is a leading feature, to
take place in West’s Rooms—Elaborate prepara-
tions are made for opening the branch or the
Mercantile Rowing Club at Blandsville, on the
Parramatta River. Commodious steamers are
engaged, also music; and there is sure (W.P.) to
he a grand show of toilettes among the ladies
On Monday night a preliminary meeting was
held in St. Matthias’ Hall. Paddington, with
the view of forming a private Rinklng Club, and
at another meeting, next week, the final ar-
rangements will be made.
Under the dome, where the lights look down
From the height of its beautiful fretwork crown,
Where the lambent blaze from the centre falls
?n snow-white, intricate, carven walls,
here are shsen of satin and glint of pearls
Borne on the bosom of white-necked girls;
There efe music and merriment, laughter and
mirth, .
And maioens of merit in dresses of worth,
With spirits a-simmer, and faces bright—
For the Owls «re holding their Ball to-night
Under the dome.
Under the dome they are gathering now,
Pleasure is flashing from cheek to brow,
For a throng of happy, and young, and gay
Have met to frolic the night away:
Light is the laughter, and lighter the hours,
And lightest of all are the fairy flowers
That give their life, for a night to rest —
And then to die—upon Beauty’s breast:
A'i 1 we have known strong men to rue
Doing just as those flowers do
Under the dome.
Under the dome—may we dare to hint.
Of things that we almost blush to print ?
Of corridors filled with courting pairs,
Of coat-sleeves feathered with floating hairs.
Of witching whispers and love-lit looks,
Of ooolng couples in cosy nooks;
Or detail the delicate, nameless charms
That have to answer for straying arms;
Or tell—but wo cannot, for no one knows—
(The dire effects of dosdal hose,
Under the dome 7
Under the dome, so fair to see,
Eyes that arc lit with the light of glee
Are shining now as the shining stars.
Add blading hearts as in prison bars;
As they hold them now they will hold them still,
With the silken strength of a woman’s will.
Though the lights go out, and the girls away,
And the cheerless dawn steals cold and grey—
When the heart of the waking city hums—
When the visions vanish and morning comes
Under the dome.


HUDSON BROTHERS
(LIMITED),
EEDFEEN WORKS, SYDNEY.
m
://///
«
//
/■
'yW// // //A
A
--K
•TJ2S
V “3J
r
iaaawa
tsr SnEPLICITT OF MANIPULATION. SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. FREEDOM
(FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &c, to be obtained ct
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Redfern,
UNEQUALLED SAFETY. tW EXTREME SIMPLICITY. JS" GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OP ROPES.
FIVE POUNDS F
PAYABLE ss. A M<
FOR PRIVATE S.
FREEHOLD ALLOT:
being a portion of the
RIVERSTOI
bounded on the east by the Wim
Railway ; on the west by the
Windsor Road; on the north b
the property of various owners;
by the old Western Road leading
and Blaoktown to Windsor.
These Town Blocks are 2001<
This thriving township is rap
the direction of Windsor, and a
division known as
CHHAKrTH
Rare opening f<
BLACKSMITH, BOOTVfAKI
CHEMIST,
and other Trades and ]
The frugal and thrifty will find 1
Profitable investment for s
Special Railway arrangement
for intended buyers to Inspect
ship that they may actually see l
ing.
Send for Prospectus and Plan
BOYD AND I
PROPERTY AUCTIO
96, PITT-BTREE
The 9 a.m. train daily will enab
to view the land and return b
train at 1 p.m. Wednesday, and 1
Torrens’ Title. Tr*
FRIDAY, 11th
Day after the C.R.J. Club’s.
Holmste:
FAMILY H
VICTORIA-STREET, G
The Premier Hotel on \
JOHN H. MUNRO has rec.
from Mr. J. A. HOLMSTEt
auction, at his Rooms, the Colon
On FRIDAY, 11th Ju
(the day after the C. R. J. Club'
at 11 o’clock,
All those GRAND HOTEL PI
and favourably known as
Holmsten’s F*mllj
situated in the business cent
having 99 feet frontage to Vi
depth of 105><3 feet to W
bounded on the back by \
containing perches, me
subdivisions 7 and 8 of sectio
lotment 6 of section 3, city (
of Great Marlow.
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Bric3r±ield. Hill.
Host ELABORATE PATTERNS in LAGE CURTAINS.
jsgr These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns and Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
Ladies residing in the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it okt, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
LACE CVKTAIKS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union. tST - Examine carefully the engraving of our
“LACE CURTAINS.”
m n
& IK sft vS'cS l ifi A : A : i&At& AAA
m
tmm
mm
m
mm
Price: 12s. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
668 BRICKFIELD HILL.
LACE CURTAINS I
LACE CURTAINS
Patterns and Price Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
Sydney, Wednesday.
Dearest Belt,*,—On the occasion of Madame
Charbonnet-Keilermann’s second “audit’’ last Tues-
day night, the Protestant Hall was more densely
crowded than I have overseen it before,
perhaps, on a Saturday night. I thought it bad
management in Madame to issue Invites to more
people than the hall would comfortably accom-
modate, but I learnt afterwards that she had in
reality taken some trouble to limit the invita-
tions so as to make sure that all would be com-
fortably seated. The fact of the matter was, that
numbers went uninvited : hence the crowd. It
tnakes one feel mean to remain seated all the
evening whilst others are standing ; and I would
nave given something to have felt as indifferent
fcbout it as the dudes looked who manfully
kept their seats during the whole performance,
whilst ladies, old and young, were standing on
every side, almost ready to faint from fatigue.
Perhaps they were afraid of spreading their feet,
poor dears ! by a two hours’ stand ; or. to take a
more charitable view of it, very likely they knew
no better, so we must not be too hard on them.
Madame Kellermann takes a genuine her
pupils, who, without any exception, reflect the
greatest credit on their teacher. A tiny mite,
little Elsie Stanley-Hall, who looks to be about
six years old, played a little solo by Kuhlau
with such correctness of touch and expression
that we were filled with wonder. I believe she is
the same little baby we used to hear about some
five years ago, if you remember, dear. She was so
musical that whenever she cried, she cried melo-
diously ; and before she could walk she could
Anger out airs on the piano with one little chubby
Anger. She lived somewhere in Queensland—a
place rich in prodigies. Another clever little
thing, little Bertha Kussell, also played remark-
ably well for her age. Amongst the pupils of the
first class we could detect much talent, which is
certainly made the most of by Madame's peculiarly
happy mode of drawing it out. Mrs. Spencer
varied the concert by two solos, to one of which
(“Alla Stella confidents’’) Herr Patek played a
’cello obligato admirably. The Hop! Hop! Galop,
by Madame Kellermann, is very lively and spark-
ling, and is, I believe, her latest composition.
After playing her solo, “ La Danse des Fees,
Madame had more bouquets handed her than she
could conveniently carry, and also a beautiful
basket of flowers.
In such a crowd, the dresses did not show to ad-
vantage, though amongst them some were very
tasteful. Nearly all the pupils were in white or
light colours, with coloured sashes or flowers.
Madame wore rose pink and white silk, with white
muslin sleeves and coral necklace; and Mrs.
Spencer, black, with white camellias. A peculiar
dress in the hall was a cream muslin with
a bertha composed of small green leaves with the
same round the neck. It was effective and un-
common, but rather uncomfortable, I should
fancy, as the leaves would not make the softest of
necklets. A pretty dark girl looked particularly
nice in a rich garnet velvet bodice and tunic over
a white satin petticoat. The neck of the bodice
was high, but sleeves short, which were nearly
met hv long white gloves. A lavender satin,
plainly made, with a bunch of crimson roses at the
throat, was very tasteful. Miss White, of Ashfleld,
looked pretty in pale blue, and her sister in soft
white muslin with pink ribbons. Pelerines, made
of some warm material, are great boons this cold
weather to concert and theatre goers. They are
made to look so dressy that I am sure they will
rapidly gain favour. One I saw lately was made of
pale blue velvet terry, with a bordering of swans-
down and fastened on the left shoulder. In our
draughty theatres it is almost impossible to sit
without some covering for the shoulders, and these
pelerines look so much nicer than either cloak or
cloud, and serve the purpose equally well.
The Owls were delighted with their ball last
Thursday night, and say it was one of their biggest
successes. The Town Hall was rather uncomfort-
ably crowded, but no one seemed to mind, and
went on dancing as if it wore the greatest fun
in the world to be jostled against one another
and dance the Lancers in a square no bigger
than a table. We wondered what the “Surprise
Quadrille ” was to be, though we had pur suspi-
cions, which proved to be correct. The ladies and
gentlemen, after being separated, were each
handed a musical toy out of different baskets, and
as there were two of each kind the rule was that
those holding corresponding toys should be part-
ners in the quadrille. But, oh! shall I ever forget
the noise of those two hundred instruments nil
being sounded together ? I did wish that the lady
holding the policeman's rattle would answer to
the call, and not be so dreadfully shy; but, al-
though the noise was aggressive, the fun was great.
The object of this is to do away with any stiffness,
but 1 don’t think that was altogether necessary, as
everybody seemed limp enough—especially after
refreshments. There were some exceedingly
nretty dresses, though fancy costumes were scarce.
A pretty little blonde wore ruby velvet, with
Elizabethan collar over a pink jupe, and was a
great favourite. A maize satin had an oyer-skirt
of beautiful white pompon net. which material, by
the way, stands wear far better than one would
expect. A striking dress was of black net and silk,
studded all over with looped strings of pearls. A
voung bride, in white silk and white chenille gauze,
looked neat and pretty. A pink veiling dress
with pointed bertha of pink gauze had such slight
sleeves that I expected every minute to see them
give way. They were apparently composed
solelv of the gauze, and were so pretty
that they almost justified a little risk. A
rich ruby satin had the front part of the skirt
completely covered with beautiful cream lace.
The bodice and sleeves were also elaborately
trimmed with the lace, and the tout ensemble was
charming. Of the fancy costumes. Romp looked
saucy and coquettish enough for auytbiDg% and
Folly’s dress was well carried out. We had an
excellent Band, the members of which played as If
they enjoyed it, and not as if they were wishing it
were supper-time all the while. If everybody
didn’t enjoy the ball. It must have been their own
fault, for certainly the Owls did all in their power
to make it pleasant and agreeable. I am sure
Mr, Clark must have been nearly run off his feet—
what with getting People partners and going
through the dances; and other members of the
Club were almost equally energetic.
So many beautiful costumes were on the Block
on Saturday morning that I can’t resiatmentioning
some. A dark-green cloth pleated skirt had origi-
nal and effective ornamentation in the shape of
buttons composed ®f gold braid, w-hich were sewn
on between each pleat, commencing with a very
large one at the hem of the skirt and gradually
diminishing in 'size to the waist. The new open
jacket with vest was worn with this, and a lovely
large green soft felt hat with green plumes. We i.
what think you of it ? The old fashioned double
skirts are worn again, and very nice they look, too.
A seal-brown ottoman cloth had the underskirt
simply pleated, whilst the upperskirt was trimmed
with a wide band of brown velvet. There are
scarcely any coat-tail jackets to be seen now; and
it is to be hoped they are things of the past, for no
one can pretend to say they were either pretty or
graceful. A beautiful garnet shot silk was worn
with one of those stylish draped aprons, which Is
a cunning device for that material, as the folds
show the rich colouring to perfection. Two sisters
with straw-coloured hair looked well in blue
dresses, with brown tweed four-in-hands and blue
felt hats. And there was a brown velvet dress
with gorgeous gold braiding which seemed to
catch everybody's eye. With a plain-tucked claret
skirt was worn a silver gray fur tippet and small
grey velvet bonnet, with steel trimming. Un-
doubtedly, large felt hats are the favourites this
season, but they are worn with the plain stitched
ribbon-binding—not velvet-and either plumes,
wings, or chenille pompons. I have seen them,
however, with simply a corded ribbon round the
crown fastened at the side with a handsome
buckle, and I’m not sure that the latter style is
not the most bizarre. Enormous steel buckles are
used for fastening up dress drapery. One I saw
on Saturday was quite ss large as a horseshoe, and
was in that design. You ask me if I know any-
thing of the scientific square measurement for
dressmaking. Well no, I don’t; but I will make
Inquiries, and some day send you all particulars.
In the meantime
I am yours,
MAB.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENCE.
“ Bessie.’’—Tour communication received. Will
take the first opportunity of following your
advice. Many thanks.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Woollahra Private Assembly (Nlthsdale)...,Tune 20.
Scandinavian Ball (Tattersall’s Hall) June 30.
Cyclists’ Union Sports June 21.
Sydney Private Assembly (Nlthsdale) June 27
Burwood Private Assembly June 27.
Governor's Levee Tune 2H.
Opening M.R.C. Branch Club House June 28.
Mercantile R.C. Annual Ball (Exhibition) July 3.
American Celebration July 4.
Balmain R. C. Annual Ball (West’s Rooms).. July 11.
Sydney Thistle Club’s Annual Ball (Now
Masonic Hall) July 18.


Gitici
# elf-
■sfsl
SI
Eczema on Face & Scalp
A POSITIVE
FOR EVERY FORM C
SKIN AND B]
DISEAS3
FROM
Z'S
i ■
•V/
Sorofulfl od neck
PIMPLES to SC
11ISFIGURINQ HUMORS, Humiliating' Erup-
tions, Itching and Burning Tortures, Salt
Rheum, Eczema, Psoriasis, Barber’s Itch, Sore
Eyes, Scald Head, Dandruff, Infantile or Birth
Humors, and every species of Itching, Scaly,
Pimply, Scrofulous and Copper-Coloured Diseases
of the Skin and Scalp, with ioss of Hair, are
positively cured by the Cuticura Resolvent
internally, and Cutiouba and Cuticura Soap
externally.
Bad Blood, Scrofulous, Inherited and Conta-
tagous Humours, Glandular Swellings, Ulcerous
Patches in the Throat, and Mouth, Abscesses,
Tumours, Carbuncles, Blotches Sores, Scurvy,
Wasting of the Kidneys and Urinary Organs,
Dropsy, Erysipelas, Ennsmla, Pyaemia,Leuoorrhoaa,
Loss of Strength, Chronic Rheumatism, Constipa-
tion and Debility, and most Diseases arising from
an Impure.or Impoverished condition of the Blood,
are positively cured by the Cuticura Remedies.
One Hundred Testimonials with each pack-
age and Sworn to before the British Consulate
repeat this story : I have been a terrible sufferer
for years with Skin and Blood Humors; have been
obliged to shun public places by means of my dis-
figuring humors; have had the best physicians;
have spent hundreds of dollars and got no real
relief until I used the Cuttcuba Resolvent which
have cured me and left my skin and blood as pure
as a child’s.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, Consignees.
CUTIGUB
Her, Din
and Persplra
Elements, ai
Cuticura.
Jelly for ext
Inflamraatio
Sores, and D
heals Ulcers,
stores the Hi
Cuticura
and Toilet R
indlspensabli
Humors, 8k
Sunburn, an
Cuticura
the only real
free from m<
mineral or v«
For Sale
druggists t
Cuticura, 6
Cuticura S
Soap, 15 cer
bottle. Prrp
Potter Dr
AFTER ocforb MOUSTACHE and WSISZESS- wom after
Boyd's Beard ftixir did this, and
I will do it on either bald head or
bare face, force* heavy Mous-
tache infrom2 to A week* and never
/ail*, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 phis. >o injury, easily applied, sertain in effect, _
each, 3 for 3s. 6d.,p05l paid, sent under cover, free from observation .
l Addres*, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, 0.P.0., Sydney,N.B. W*
Copyrighted.
Copyrighted.
Backets 1«. 6 d.
UMBR
REiCOVE
CSTUDT ECONOMY,
and
Hare yourU mbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-llned and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 Geora-e Street,
Brickfield full, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Renalra neatly exe-
«nt«*
W.
i
111
AND
PA
CO. (Lmii
The Bad and Worthless
are never imitated or counterfeited. This is es
peclally true of a family medicine, and it is positive
proof that the remedy imitated is of the highest
value. As soon as it had been tested and proved
by the whole world that Hop Bitters was the pur-
est, best and most valuable family medicine on
earth, many Imitations sprung up and began to
steal the notices in which the press and the people
of the country had expressed the merits of H. B.
and in every way trying to induce suffering In-
valids to use their stuff instead, expecting to make
money on the credit and good name of H. B.
Many others started nostrums put up in similar
style to H. 8., with variously devised names in
which the word “ Hop ” or “ Hops ” were used in a
way to induce people to believe they were the
same as Hop Bitters. All such pretended remedies
or cures, no matter what their style or name is,
and especially those with the word “Hop” or
“ Hops ” in their name or in any way connected
with them or their name, are imitations or
counterfeits. Beware of them. Touch none of
them. Use nothing but genuine American Hop
Bitters, with a bunch or cluster of green Hops on
the white label, and Dr, Soule’s name blown in the
glass. Trust nothing else. Druggists and Chem-
ists are warned against dealing in Imitations or
counterfeits.
FOR PALE, LANGUID,
Emaciated children, with Pimply, Sallow Skin, the
Cutiouba Resolvent will prove a blessing at
once, cleansing the Blood and Liver of fermentlve
germs which are sure to develop into Scrofula
Rheumatism, Consumption or severe Skin Diseases
Mothers will find the Cuticuka Remedies abso-
lutelyinfallible in cleansing the System of Ulcera-
tive weaknesses and Debilitating Diseases. Full
directions accompanying each package of Resol-
vent for the composition of cleansing washes and
healing applications. No household can afford to
be without these wholesome Blood Purifiers and
Skin Beautlflers.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn. Stock-
lags, Carpet Bags, Ribbons, Feathers, orany fabric
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these once. You will ho
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181 GP O
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &o.,&o„ by return poet.*
Our religious journals will b© pleased to
hear that anecdotes of the American war are just
beginning to crop up. Here’s one. A pious; but
otherwise respectably dressed young newspaper
boy was found one day in the streets of Pitts-
burg yelling out, “ Hoorroo for Jeff Davis.”
“ Hoorroo for the devil!” roared a Sunday-school
teacher, who happened to pass, “for It would be
better to hoorroo for the devil than for Jeff
Davis.” So the torn-shirt little deadbeat slipped
off to a safe distance and screamed back, “ Hoorroo
for Jeff Davis. Now then, Mister, shout out for
your man 1” Such was the woeful state of civili-
sation in those days. They didn’t know there was
a personal devil then, and they didn’t care a mill-
dam whether there was or not. Sic est vita.
The Auckland Free Lance, which is no-
thing when notabusive, and hardly anything when
it is, quotes Vincent Crummies as saying “The
Legitimate Drarmer.” Mr. Crummies never said
anything of the sort, and this is only another
instance of the slipshod stylo of journalism preva-
lent with many Australian scribblers who suffer
chronically from paucity of Intellect. Matthew
Arnold recently, in the Nineteenth Century,
gave a certain section of Australian Journalists a
severe castigation, on account of, as he alleges,
their adopting a false and artificial description of
humour! For his model, Mr. Arnold took a
Bathurst paper, which is, perhaps, morq celebrated
for its eccentricities than its virtues. It is not for
us to say how far the humour of English news-
papers exceeds, for instance, that of our own; but
we consider that Mr. Arnold would have rendered
a better service to literature had he pointed out
the hideous anachronisms that are constantly dis-
figuring many of our papers, which the ignorance
of their writers already sufficed to make suffi-
ciently grotesque. It is no figure of speech to say
that we can point out a Sydney dally which never
falls, even in the simplest of simple foreign phrases,
to hopelessly bungle, and In which in every effort
on their part to apply to their own baldheaded stuff
the most hackneyed quotation, canfusion, dire
and confounded, is the enevit able result. In South
Australia— notably Adelaide—youths are educated
from the case to the reporter’s room. On one
occasion, Sheridan produced there “ A New Way
to Pay Old Debts,” and a trained juvenile critic
made his debut in the notice of this play. He com-
menced: “‘The New Way to Pay Old Debts ’ is a
comedy by Messenger, who died of an over feed of
lampreys.” There is, however, little hope for any
Immediate reform so far as slip shod journalism is
concerned. The “ national beverage ” and super-
ficial education have, doubtless, a great deal to do
with it. To do away with the former is hopeless,
of course; but there should surely be a remedy for
the latter I Say, night schools I
r Sound the loud timbrel o’er Egypt’s dark
sea, and let the tintinabulatious come around
through Souakim via the Melbourne correspon-
dent of the S.M. Herald, for to him we are in-
debted for a psalm of Asaph, or triumph, or what
you will. Young Dr, Moloney, of Collins-street>
Melbourne, is a good-looking Athenian, and given
to Shakespeare sonneteering, medical psychology
(he told us we suffered from the Great Mania, so
we love him), and as a practitioner, caa bleed and
drench with here and there a one. But he now
asserts that “the Australian youth is classic In
mould, feature, and thought.” We have con-
sidered our mould in Wigzeil’s biggest mirror, and
find the doctor correct—never, in fact, have wc
stood before a more perfect mind in a perfect
body. The bit of raw meat over the eye, and the
chest somewhat sunken, together with the loss of
an ear or two, are accidents that might happen to
any man in Australia, but as a bit of manly con-
tour, we back our eight-stone Apolloism against
the best Roman of them all. For our features are,
we would just say, what the doctor calls classical.
We don’t lavishly copy the Greek in these matters.
Our nose, for instance, is not straight; and, Indeed,
through a slight misunderstanding in the doctor’s
own street with a cabman, is like Hamlet’s and the
Melbourne Punch's wit-somewhat turned awry.
But time and judicious tweaking may alter all
that. But as for our classic thought—ha I ha!
Right you are, doctor. Listen while we throw
aside the humdrum Intelligibility of a money-
making journalistic age. Have we not wandered
with old Homer beside his sounding sea, and,
to other notes than those of the Orphean lyre,
given heed while o’er the Samian or the Thracian
strand the bard ©f Colchis strung his golden lute
and told of Plato of the solemn brow, and chorus-
Ings Sophoclean, and of that Attic muse, CEnone*
who called to mother Ida ere she died, and
[Better write direct to the doctor. There's been a
champion dog-fight in Temora, and we must get it
In or we fall behind the age— Ed. B.]
What they badly want over in India, to-
day, is Sir ’Enry Parkes with a brand new scheme
of non-sectarian “heducation;” for the school-
master is not only abroad up there, but his school
has evidently been thrown down, and his stock-in-
trade pelted into the sacred Ganges. Not long
ago, a State official in Delhi, having to examine
numerous candidates for a vacant elerkship, asked
them to write in English their opinions of the
objects, uses, and advantages of irrigation, by
means of canals. And this is the style one Mr.
Dooblah Sindh wrestled with the subject:—“ We
should highly thanks of the Government for to us
build the canals, by which we are able to cross
easily vast oceans, rivers, and ponds. If there
would have have had no canals on water, it would
have been the difficulty immense to get over the
large part of water, and would have been some
trouble to go through it at all. and notwithstand"
ing, moreover, by the aid of canals we are able to
go by railway a long march within short time. So
much of it so that it happens frequently some-
times that the longer of the journey march the
sooner gets the canal traveller through it. If
there were no canals to be build, it would have been
very hard to get water at hand. That is all.’*
And quite enough for the money too, we think’
but we prefer the opinion of Mr. Abdallah Ali,
who Is evidently a bit of a fire-eater in his way, as
he writes:—‘‘The objects of Irrigation are these—
namely, viz., &o.; Fire arms, cannons, powder,
shot and bombshells, which are to the great ad-
vantage of all, especially on Field days, when
people present and the band.” Abdallah is simply
wasting his talents on the desert air. All he wants
is a cocked hat, a seat on a horse, like a scissors
stuck across a 5-barred gate, and a masterly ignor-
ance of the science of war, to be one of our own
first-night Easter-encampment General Wolseleys.
The fellow who should have scooped the prize,
however, was Mr. Cassin Nadir, who wrote to say,
“Of the canals I do not much think they do the
rice crop some good at all. Of this, however, I
cannot say, as I know nothing at all about them,
but I am of the cooks first class, and a Christian
man, and drinks brandy. If you give satisfaction
to me, I give to you satisfaction also. Come round
and see me, some day.” That coffee-coloured mule
evidently thought canals were a sort of manure,
but being a good cook, and a Christian brandy-
swigger as well, he was preferred to either the
water lunatic or the mud-headed Majah-Glnlrll*
Besides, there’s a smack of honest independence
about his friendly invite, “Come round and see me
some day,” that is worthy of the most enthusiastic
shirt-sleeved admirer of either Tiohborne Smith
or the paint-pot Flower.
A PERSONAL, ILLUSTRATED.
ROSIE.-WAS DETAINED AT HOME. “BALDY.”


Thoroughly satisfied that it
CONQUERS PAIN.
Palace Emporium,
Haymarket, Sydney.
The Editor Bulletin.
Dear Sib,—
I cheerfully add my testimony to the good
eflects deriveable from the use of ST. JACOBS
OIL as demonstrated in nay own household. Some
few weeks ago my wife suffered severely from
pains in her head. She applied the Oil with excel-
lent results, and has since recommended it to a
friend for a case of swelling in the lags, in which
case the result was equally beneficial. It has been
used by members of my family, and its action has
satisfied my most sanguine expectations. I con-
sider it a most valuable preparation to have by
you for any household accident. I recommend it
confidently to my friends, and am thoroughly
satisfied “It Ooaquers Pain.”
I remain, yours truly,
DAVID CURTIN.
(This testimonial is from a highly respected em-
ploy* in the employ of Messrs. A. Hordern and
Sons, and bears the endorsement of that colossal
firm).
£lOO.—A Cash Reward of £lOO will be paid by the
Charles A. Vog-aler Company, of Baltimore, Mary-
land, U.S.A., Proprietors of St. Jacobs Oil, or by
their accredited local representatives In various
parts of the world, to any person producing proof
to the elf act that the testimenials published by
them in gegard to St. Jacobs Oil arc not strictly
genuine.. j»rioe in N.8.W., Half-a-Crownabottle.
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. Sydney,
* Wholesale Uepof fop N .B.W,
“A Constant Sufferer” writes, bitterly com-
plaining of the miserable dock accommodation sup-
plied for the patrons of the Police Court, Redfern.
This, he remarks, is especially the case on Monday
mornings, when it is nothing unusual to find the
noble army of “ drunks ” jammed together like
Sardines in a box; and he further asserts that on
the Monday after Queen’s Birthday, so great was
the amount of loyalty displayed on the proceed-
ing Sawbatb, that a constable had to pick the lock
off the door to make room for the glittering
throng. What “ A Constant Sufferer ” howls most
about, however, is the fact that both sexes are
bundled into the same pen, and upon one occasion
ho cafight a severe cold through being compelled
to purse a damp, obscene-language lady for half
art hour, before his own drunk-and-disorderly case
was called. On the other hand, however, we have
received, by the same post, a complaint from the
indefatigable officer in charge of the Redfern dis-
trict, which we consider is of a far more serious
nature than all those of “A Constant Sufferer”
put together. Philip M’Cup is a native, and a
resident of Redfern, 8., and on Tuesday last he
went out of his way to tramp down to Woolloo-
mooloo and get on a howling “tear,” to the dis-
turbance of the peace of Her Most Gracious
Majesty, the Queen, and the total annihilation of
Constable Flaherty’s regulation breeches. And,
as a natural result, Philip M’Cupp was run into
the Woolloomooloo lock-up. That’s a nice sort of
patriot, isn’t he? Here’s Redfern goes to the
trouble and expense of building a palatial lock-up,
with hot and cold water and gas laid on, and puts
bow windows and a French roof, and a pump on
the premises also, and, in fact, does everything in
Redfern’s power to provide the Inhabitants with
a'l the comforts of a home, and yet here’s this
M’Cupp, born and bred within coo-ee of the place,
and pre'ending to have its interest at heart, must
scoot off and patronize an opposition institution,
as far down as Woolloomooloo. We agree with
the Redfern official, that such a man is not fit to
live, and ought to be immediately hushed along to
one of the ends of the earth—and pushed over.
Iu London there are twenty-eight theatres
in working order. The Adelphi, seated for 1500
persons, represents £350. The Alcazar, a large
house, under its present name, only just opened.
The Alhambra, just rebuilt and reopened. Astley’s
holds 3500 persons. The Avenue Theatre, comic
opera, for 1000 people, £350. The Britannia, north-
ern district of London, holds 3973. The Comedy,
for 1500 persons. £350; the Court, the most westerly
theatre, holds 733; the Criterion, now being recon-
structed, holds 675 persons. The authority we are
quoting gives no statistics about Covent Garden.
Drury Lane holds 3731 persons. The Elephant and
Castle holds 3600. The Gaiety Theatre is seated for
1243; the Garrick holds 463; the Globe holds 980
Persons, £3lO. The Haymarket Theatre holds 940:
Her Majesty’s is seated for 3444. The Imperial
Theatre, built as a wing of the Royal Aquarium,
holds 1750 people, £330. The Lyceum is now fitted
with 1455 seats. The Grand Theatre, Islington
district, built on the site of the Philhar-
harmonic destroyed by fife, holds 3000. The new
Sadler's Wells Theatre seated for 3500 people, only
draws an income of £l5O. The Olympic holds 1000.
The Pavilion in Whitechapel is seated for 3600, and
the Princess in Oxford-street, 3500. The Savoy
holds 1374 persons: St. George’s Hall, in every re-
spect a theatre, 900; and the St. James’s, 1030. The
Surrey holds 3161 persons, and draws £150; while
Toole’s Theatre, which only holds 900, draws the
same amount. In pantomine time, when the
prices are raised, the Surrey draws £350. The
Vaudeville is seated for 1000. In addition to these
there are the Novelty, the International, the
Theatre Royal, Hackney, seated for 1000 persons,
the now Royalty, the Opera Comique, the Strand,
the Prince's, and the Standard. The old Victoria
Theatre has been transformed into a temperance
music hall, while the Grecian having been pur-
chased for £10,750 by the Salvation Army, has been
“converted” into a public-house. There are
theatres, for afternoon performances, at both the
Crystal and Alexandra Palaces. Supposing that
the above-enumerated theatres were full every
night, this would show that each night in London,
the treasuries of theatres netted £6830, or in a year
£354,640.
Some forty years have elapsed since the
appearance of a book entitled “Vestiges of
Creation.” This work caused quite a flutter of
brotherly love at the time. It was then the pul-
piteers of Scotland first began to bellow about
“Science, falsely so called,” and the book was de-
nounced as atheistical and abominable. Had these
gentle reviewers known who the author was, and
had they the power, the author and book would
have been burned together. The secret of author-
ship has been well kept for forty years. Various
guesses were made from time to time, and it was
generally believed that the book was written by
Robert Chambers, but there was no certainty about
the matter. All doubt has now, however, been
removed by the appearance of a new edition pub-
lished by the firm of W. and R. Chambers, with an
introduction by Mr. Alexander Ireland, giving a
detailed account of the facts connected with its
first appearance in print. The book was written
by Robert Chambers, at St. Andrew’s, in 1843. The
MS. was sent to Mr. Ireland, at Manchester, who
had it copied, and the copy was sent to a London
publisher who was kept in ignorance of the
author’s name. The proof sheets were sent to
Mr. Ireland, who forwarded them in turn under
fresh covers to the author. The revised sheets
were returned to the publisher in the same way.
Only four persons were entrusted with the secret
—the author’s wife and brother, Mr. Ireland, and
Mr. Cox, editor of the Phrenological Journal.
Of these persons, Mr. Ireland is now the sole sur-
vivor. Before his death, Robert Chambers autho-
rised Mr. Ireland te publish all he knew of the
matter, but William Chambers was averse to such
publication being made, at least during his lifetime.
There was really never any good reason for making
a mystery of the matter. So far from being athe-
istical or profane, the book is written in a reverent
and thoughtful spirit, and at the present day might
pass for the production of any able and enlight-
ened professor of religion. One of the principal
reasons for withholding his name which weighed
with the author was the agreement with his brother
William, as publishers to steer clear of all theologi-
cal and political snags and other objectionable ob-
structions.
A STERN CHASE.
A truant officer in the Port Macquarie district has given a lesson of diligence which
makes many of our police green with envy. Ho found an aboriginal child growing up in ignorance
of the sum of two and two, and, although black as a crow, ignorant even of who made him; so this
truant officer, failing to get a fine inflicted on the man at whose house the boy had been staying for
some time, took out a summons against the father, and proceeded to serve it himself. The fine would
be only five shillings, but a principle is a principle. Here was a child of school age growing up
in ignorance, and here was a paid officer of the State, whose returns could not be sworn to without
showing how young Black O’Moore spent his time. Having received permission of the Department
“to be absent from his district while serving a summons,” he rolled up a pair of blankets, took
fishing-tackle, gun, billy, etc , and telling his wife he would find his man he started off along
the coast, determined to work his way to Cape York for a start. He followed the coastline, keep-
ing well in sight of the sea, and scrutinizing the footprints along the beach. At night he rested
among the rocks, and ate mussels, and baked johnny-cakes, and read over the summons to see
that there was no mistake. He did a good deal of prospecting this side of Townsville, put in his pegs
for a claim on every likely spot, and reg stored the same with the nearest registrar. He also, in the
intervals of his search, marked out several foreshore sections with a view to future oyster fishing,
and occasionally took a job at gardening to provide himself with pocket money. Day after day
did this arduous man pursue his relentless course. At one time ho might be seen at sunset standing
in a tree, shading his eyes with his band, and scanning the horizon for traces of the miscreant. At
another the look-out man at the masthead in the offing would see his black figure out against the
sky, and the helmsman would veer a point or two, and swear that the stone kangaroo at Manly had
leaped from his pedestal and was going north for change of air and a new nose. At the end of six
months he sit down exhausted at the extreme end of York Peninsular, and asked Captain Armlt,
who was sailing past for New Guinea, “You
haven’t seen sueu a thing as a black nigger an-
swering the description in this summons, but
only got the hasty reply, "He passed west two days
ago, and is making for the West Australia pearl
fishery. Follow,the eoast. You’ll knew his tracks
—he’s in-toed.” After spending a few days inspect-
ing the coast for a suitable opening for an under-
ground tunnel across Torres Straits for the con-
veyance of M'lwralth’s New Guinea sugar and
wool, he wired back to the Department that he
was on the track. Mr. Trickett immediately plaeed
himself in communication with Mr. Griffith,
and four camels with ample provision of
food and a pack of cards were forwarded to his
relief. The party now skirted the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, capturing four or five niggers and flinging
them into the sea on finding they had got the
wrong man. Working around to Port Darwin, the
provisions gave out, and one of the camels went
astray. He was afterwards found speared, and his
trappings scattered around. Everything eatable
was gone; but this was not the worst, for, on
gathering up the scattered cards of their only
pack, it was found that the benighted devils had
carried off the Jack, King, and Queen for pictures,
and so for two miserable weeks, when the camp
fire was lighted, and the stars shone out, and the
melodious mopoke warbled his nocturnal song,
the cheerful human observations of “pass” and
“by me” were no more heard. At Port Darwin
they received cheering news, Mr. Black O’Moore
had passed through the night before with a square
bottle of gin under his arm, and his gin well on
ahead with the baby, spear, 301 b. of flour, some
firewood, a sheep’s head, and a frying pan on her
back. The detectives had watched him, but had
no power to arrest. All they could get out of him
was that “ dam white fellow all the time one day
behind. Started from Port Macquarie night afore
him. Dam bad tracker. Catch me when gone
round ooast fifteen times.” After a banquet
from the mayor and councillors, the hardy pio-
neers of justice once more set out with fresh
camels and a new pack of cards, and camped at
length opposite the pearl fisheries. As luck would
have it, they saw their man going in a header off a
pearl boat, and straightway rowed off to him In a
canoe hastily constructed. The truant officer
stopped the boat over the wave where he went
down, and stood in the bows with the summons in
his hand ready to serve. There was a bubble in
the water. They could see him coming up. No
words could picture the excitement of that
moment. The calls of justice were about to be
satisfied, But, just within two feet of thft eur-
face, he saw the brandished summons, and went
down again. They waited and waited, and at last,
with cursing and imprecation, decided that this
abandoned heathen had defeated the ends of
Justice by drowning himself. They determined,
however, to wait for the body to wash ashore, so
as to sit on him and bring in a verdict of wilful and
malignant suicide while in the full natural blaze
of a more than ordinarily intellectual mind. Just
then a black dripping figure emerged near the
beach, and shouting “ Meet me at Cape Howe, or
Philllppl,” was off overland. We will not relate
the circumstances of the chase. Suffice it that
when the party got back to Port Macquarie, boot-
less, and bare of everything but honour. It was
found that the boy had no father, but that his nice
uncle Jimmy had led them that tramp out of
revenge for the shoddiness of the Government
blanket recently served out. But this should not
prevent our recording our appreciation of the all
too rare promptness and vigour of a public ser-
vant in the service of a Working Government.
From Hadden Station, on the Darting’
River, there comes a tale worthy of Edgar Allen
Poe, himself, even in the “ balmiest ” days of hte
wildest Jamberoo. It appears that one Thomas
Gibbs, a party better known than respected by
those who had the pleasure of his acquaintance,
was recently riding out after stock with a few
other station hands, when they suddenly oame on
a man who had apparently committed suicide by
hanging himself from a gum tree. The party at
once reined up, examined the surroundings, and
then Gibbs was selected to guard the remains
whilst the others went back for a oart to convey
the body to the station. They were a wary,
matter-of-fact lot of fellows, these Hadden hands,
and above all things, hated to be made the laugh-
ing stock of the “busbies" about the district.
Because they were men who were sensitive to the
last degree, and theirs was not exactly the style of
nature that one could with safety “guy ” at. And
so it came to pass that Tom Gibbs was sorted out
to guard the corpse, for, as one “ Sootchy ” pru-
dently observed, *‘No one can tell whether a feller’s
dooly dead or not till the lawfully-ordained orown-
er comes an’ sits on ’lm. This yer Joker on the
string’s mebbe honestly dead, ov course, but thin,
agen, mebbe he’s only workin’ a lark, an’ by the
time we brings down the cart, an’ the boss, an’ the
rest o’ th’ boys, p’raps he’ll hev cleared an’ left a
dam ole native cat or a dingo in his stead, an’ then
we’ll hev borak poked at us frum Wlntworth right
back t’ Brewarrlna, an’ even th’ ole crows on th*
river ’ll turn up their nose with a sneer wheniver
one ov us happens to pass thim.” It was, therefore,
agreed that Tom Gibbs should roost on a log till
the rest of the crowd returned, and send the sus-
pected corpse home by the “dirt road” with a
plug of lead in his head, if he moved hand or feot
to escape in the meantime. Now, this Gibbs was
a bit of a humourist in his own particular way,
and before he had hatched his seat warm a brilliant
idea struck him. The greatest dread of his mates
was that they would return with the rest of the
station-bands just in time to find the supposed
corpse had skedaddled. What, then, could be
funnier than to completely up-end all their fears,
and work the joke so that, instead of there being
no corpse at all to recover, there would be actually
two of them—two stark, stiff, purple-faced, tongue-
protruding, lifeless forms dangling in the breeze
of that bright May morn, and probably laughing
in their sleeves at the horror-stricken looks on the
faces of the shivering seekers who stood beneath
those fatal trees. Tom Gibbs considered the thing
was splendid, and fairly rolled off his pereh and
yelled as he thought of the fun he would have
with “Sootchy,” ,r Yaller Jimmy,” “Long Ned,”
and all the rest of the station boys. And then,
fastening one end of his stockwhip round a tree
Just in front of the corpse (for he never lost sight
of the trust reposed in him), he knotted the slim
end round his neck, threw himself off the branch,
and in a few seconds more Tom Gibbs had played
off his last joke in this world. When his mates had
recovered from their fearful surprise, they out
down the pair, Sootchy remarking, as he surveyed
the scene, that Tom’s was the neater job of the
two; for, whilst the feet of the first corpse scraped
the ground, there was enough room between
Tom’s and the earth to wheel a barrow. A strange
story, this, but it’s just as true as it’s startling.
Not Enough.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ You would not think,” he softly said
(He’d silver tresses on his head,
A sight that one would soften);
“ You would not think that I had bled
In gory battle often ?
Yes; Recollection’s oft a racker—
Please pass the hero your terbacker.”
Wo passed, and not a word we said—
He’d silver tresses on his head.
“ When Lopez raised his flag on high,
And swore that he would do or die
On plains of Paraguay,
Who always next the soldier stood,
No matter what his angry mood ?
I tell you it was 11
The night is calm, the night is still,
The tale I’ll tell you, if you will,
But let us have another “ fill.”
We passed the “ weed ” on to his bed—
He’d silver tresses on his head.
He told that strain throughout the night:
It was a thrilling tale—
Of how he’d conquered in the fight—
When came the morning pale.
He whispered us In manner strange,
And we were nothing loth;
But we had not sufficient change
To pay the fines for both!
Then awful things that warrior said,
Who’d silver tresses on his head,
And who had sworn to do or die ■
With Lopez up in Paraguay.
“Flinging them into the sea.”
"He stood in the bows with the summons.”


Wells’ “ Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Well*’
Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Moses,
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
Our Sunday observance law is fearfully
and wonderfully interpreted. For instance, a poor
teamster cannot travel through a town on Sunday;
but a howling train, very often a goods one, can
rumble through at pleasure. A starving urchin
can t sell his paper for a copper, but a rubicund
parson can sell a stereotyped prayer or two, and a
plagiarised sermon, for golden guineas. Poor
travellers can with difficulty obtain a bed or a
fbed, while “ masher ” club-men grow hilarious
P^ e £ji helr bottle. The whole essence of the Act
Damn the poor; c arte blanche for the rich.”
A Idt Of medical evidence has been ten-
dered in rebuttal of the statement that puerperal
fever has sprung up in the Lying-in Hospital,
Melbourne, but the line of reasoning pursued by
Dr. .Rowan, one of the honorary medical officers,
in proving that the disease had not returned since
1873, has in itlunmlatakable cogency, and “a little
ftummat,” besides. He says he has been attending
relatives of his own, by marriage, during the last
few days, and he certainly would not have done
this had puerperal fever existed in the Lying-in
Hospital. There is palpable suasion in this form
of argument. But what about the little summat ?
Shall it become essential to the establishment of
the honesty of a medical opinion upon contagion,
that the medico must carry it among his relatives ?
The artlllery-raen down South found that
soldiering is not all beer and skittles in the present
days of grace, it means restlessness at nignt, and
bad eme Is and hucndlations during the day. The
trouble at night springs of course from the visions
conjured up by the spectacle of the Premier walk-
ing do« n Colllns-streot to examine the invoice of
a shipment of tea. War, war, is in the atmosphere
about him. And the bad smells and humiliat ons
are found in the men’s helmets. Colopel Sargood
has got the helmets worn by the old volunteers
rubbed over Ith chalk, and insists that they are
to crown the new artillery corps. It is hard to
have to lie quietly in bed among gibbering spectrei
of war, and it is harder still to have to walk about
under the chalked helmets of a dead force. And
yet tnere are people who loek lightly on soldier-
ing in the South.
“It may have been wrong in the Queens-
land Ministry (says Granny’s iirisbane correspon-
dent) to put a man on the Commission of the
Peace against whom discretiteble things could be
said, but what need was there to drag into day-
lig ht the dark misdeeds of years of a man's private
life for the sole object of discrediting the Minis-
try?” That I'ertalnly is one way of putting it;
and yet, considering that the J.P. has a good deal
of power vested In him, it Is just as well to know
his antecedents ; whether, for Instance, he was
addicted to felony in his salad days, or at any time
served a sentence for indulging 1.: a little homlci I®.
A ®onverted prig may make an admirable Speaker,
or a penitent murJerer a first-class stipendiary
magistrate, yet when appointments of the kind
are made, public curiosity about antecedents is
neither Improper nor misdirected.
At South Wairoa, Auckland, N.Z., T. J.
Jerrle went out one day lately for a stroll in the
bush, and did not return. After a long search, his
neighbours found traces of him. A pair of boots,
a little hair, several bones, and a lot of clothes,
torn to pieces and all bloody. Terrible fate, that
of poor Jerrie’sl But what on earth could have
happened to him ? Several ferocious-looking wild
Elgs approached the search party, and grunted a
orrlble explanation. They had evidently killed
and eaten him. But these gentle cannibals—mark
our words, and see if they don’t come true—will
make a mistake one of these days. They will get
reckless, and attack a bush grog-seller, and he will
just breathe on them softly—once will bo enough
—like old Stephens does on his patients and bits of
magnetised flannel, and then they will die, every
pig of them, one after another at his feet, without
a struggle.
The New York Critic invites persons to
send in the names of forty living American men-
of-letters whom they consider most worthy of
membership in an American academy ot “ Forty
Immortals. ’ Wo have half a mind to follow suit,
but with a difference. We want to give the grave-
yard a show, and lay hold of forty or fifty Aus-
tralian men of letters who shall bo mortals, and
take their fates like men. But whom could we
spm-e ? We can’t live without our Herald land-
loader writers, life Is Impossible without Alfred’s
men, and the gifted sons of the <». T. would have
to give place to some of tho Freeman, Express,
and Standard men—who are also mortal. Then
Buchanan and Taylor, and Sladen and Dr. Brere-
ton would have to wipe their pens for ever, and
wo should have to fall back on tho late Punch
staff .On the whole, we will worry on. But if any
man thinks he s immortal and will send us in some-
thing we’ll read it—wont we, basket, old fellow ?
They have some pictures in a little window
o- a little shop down in Swanston-street, in Mel-
bourne, and a few people noticed that the exhibi-
tion was not In good nineteenth century taste
These people, anxious that the feelings of other
proper people should not be shocked, wrote to the
papers advising everybody to pass by the window
with eyes shut. Then everbody, and, first of all
these other proper people, went along Swanston- I
street to see what the matter was, so that they
could tell their friends to keep away. And when
they got home they also wrote to the papers and
said no good Christian should go near the window,
and that the Government should shut it up. And
then a lot got themselves into a deputation, and
after g n °ther look at the window called on the
Chief Secretary and asked him to let no other body
see the pictures. And the Chief Secretary went
down and had a look, and said he’d have to leave
it to the law-officers. Then the law-officers went
down and had a look, and said they could do no-
thing. And by that time even the children coming
and going to school, and the halt, and most of the
® ,J Mt “femblage
or of Des Moinos, a gold medal was pre-
of n flfh d ee£ fnr t 0 Kate „ She,ly ’ a W
of fifteen, for an act ot unsurpassed courage and
f“i^ lDtO L nl * ht ‘tearful Bt ° rm
arose on the Des Moines River, and from her bed-
room window she saw the head light of a locomo-
tive come to the river bridge and then suddenly
hi B if^Pn a £’n an( \-vl? ie the bridge had gone. In
half an hour the mail express was due, and the
nearest telegraph station was a mile distant over
the river, which was crossed by a trestle bridge,
Silently, Kate Shelly stole out of her mother’s
house into the storm. Soon she reached the bridge,
which was 300 yards long and exposed to the full
blast of the hurricane and pelting rain. She could
not see a foot before her. nut on bands and knees
the heroic girl crept on the croaking timbers and
dragged herself from tie to tie. The lightning
flashed on the seething yellow river fifty feet
below, and left the blackness more appalling than
before. Bruised and bleeding ad over, and with
soaked and torn clothes, she told her news at the
telegraph office, and fell fainting on the floor.
The express was stopped at the last station before
the river. Kate s golden medal only cost £5O: but
money alone can’t pay for deeds like that.
Should war with France break out, wo
shall not lack officers. They swarm in Toohcy’s
Brewery. Capt Israel commands the malt-house
•r something, while first Lieutenant Whoobey
bosses the vats or the mash, and there’s a second
and third lieutenant who probably can give
Wolseley points at washing bottles. There’sa'Flre
Brigade at Toohey’s it appears, and all hands have
elected themselves to warlike positions. Not in-
appropriate either, considering that this Brigade
will probably have to fight the opposition one at
the first fire which happens and gives a chance
for hose-cutting. We’re going to enrol a Fire
Brigade, too. But none of your captaincies and
lieutenancies for us. We have some sort of self-
respect,andwhile the boss printer would resign if ho
was elected to any less post than Field-Marshal, and
every reporter expects to be a General, and t aen be
decorated with the Victoria Cross for distinguished
valour in the face of the enemy—our reporters
swallow their enemies, mostly—the printer’s devil
would be ribald through the editorial keyhole if
he was appointed anything meaner than Staff-
major. We must break off now. We have sent
the Staff-major for the Brigadier General com-
manding the slush-bucket and paste-pot division,
“ soo “ - he hM WMhcd “ 9
An auctioneer, named Malpas, had a rather
peculiar experience ud at Townsville
He sleptTn InZtel, aKpon awlkilg fn
the morning, discovered himself in hpti with a
broken wrist,’ disloS
btuises about the size of a horse-hiankef nil nvw
him. In fact, he looked at though he had l« V t n r
bed with a threshing Machine Vhe fiinnvTi of
the matter is that Mr. Malpas found both his bed-
room doors locked on the inside He thinks tnnt
he must have walked out of the window in his
sleep. and d^
with an Iron fence on hfa way down. I hen he
supposes that he got up, walked round to a side
door of the hottl, effected an entrance, and went
to his own room, where he locked both doors
•ecurely, and then went to bed to continue his
sound sleep until morning, W e don’t know Mr.
Malpas, but we would iike to help him solve the
mystery in which the affair is shrouded, for he
says that he has never before been known to walk
in his sleep, ihe matter seems easy enough to us.
Mr. Malpas had probably been to a picnic the
afternoon before, and had been reckless enough
i uoad on the tail of an Irishman’s coat. After
nightfall he crawled home, stole past the porter,
locked the doors of his room, took a long pull at
t< e demijohn, and went to sleep. If a man is far
enough gone, a broken bone r two won’t keep
him awake, and from the meagre evidence at hand
we suspect that Mr. Malpas was rather far gone.
We may be wrong. If we are, we want it
thoroughly understood that the dilapidated
Queenslander has the benefit of the doubt.
Thiais a woman item. The Northern Pacific
Kail way is just finished, and is putting on uniform,
the same as other railways. An order was recently
made requiring all the servants of the company to
dress in the proper official rig, and a tailor named
.undertook the contract for getting up
all the suits. As he only had a fortnight allowed
to finish the job in, he started off on a measuring
tour, telegraphing ahead as he went along to all
the railway employes, as follows: ‘Take off every*
thing but your Inside shirt and trousers, and stand
out on the platform when the train arrives, to be
measured by me for uniform.” When the train
arrived, the men would be found, duly measured,
and the tailor ready to start off on the same train.
Everything went like clockwork as far as the
little village of Scrabble Hollow, and here the
hustling little tailor sent along the usual “wire”
jhe next station, a place called Negationburg,
and then resumed his journey. When he got out
there, however, he didn’t see any half-naked men
around, but he saw a very pretty little lady who
was the station-mistress, and a stout old lady (who
was the head porter), with fire in her eyes and a
mop-handle in her hand, whilst carefully peering
into the carriages was a long, slab-sided galoot,
who happened to be the station-mistress’s brother,
and who was armed with a remarkably ferocious-
looklng shot-gun. For some reason or another,
Mr. Mulkittle concluded he wouldn’t do any more
measuring business that day; but when the train
stopped again, he got out and wired to head-
quarters: “How many officials have you on this
line who don t wear shirts and breeches, and where
are they located ? Answer quick.”
At Wairarupa, N.Z., two clergyman, a
Presbyterian and a Wesleyan, undertook to inves-
tigate the phenomena of Spiritualism. The spirits
« been sending messages to their friends to tho
effect that there was nothing to dread on the other
side of Jordan—not the slightest smell of sulphur
anywhere about—and the rev. gentlemen rightly
concluded their daily bread, butter, and jam were
imperilled by such doctrines. Consequently, they
went for the spirits with all the starch they could
pile on, and this is what happened. A little girl*
daughter ot a resident of Grey town, by merely
touching a heavy table with her little Anger, can
make it waltz about, spin round the room, lay the
cloth for breakfast, arrange the cups and saucers,
rap out a blessing, call up the spirit of her de-
parted grandmother, and perform many other
surprising and wonderful feats. When she
touched the table in presence of the two anxious
enquirers, it skipped three feet in the air and
came down a crusher on several of the most tender
and prominent of the clerical crop of corns This
was too much, and the two straightway fell on the
{•We and wrestled with it trying to keep it down®
but all their efforts were unavailing. In Jess than
J^SJf e * ondB , tb f . oom batants got inextricably
mixed, four clerical and three wooden legs whirl-
™Lf b J?. u t b ,1 tw , e ? n fl . oor and the ceiling in the
most diabolical fashion imaginable. Not till the
little girl stamped on the floor thrice was order
restored by the table settling down between tho
two expounders, who founi themselves, when
they opened their eyes, comfortably seated there-
at, with decanters and glasses in front of them
a £ d not until after they had refreshed consider!
ably did they remember that they were both
Blue Button Gospel Abstainers,” and pledged to
manifestations? 11110 ® &U Bpirituous and spiritual
A few days ago, the Victorian Social Purity
Association members waited on the saintly Mr
Graham Berry, and bombarded him with a series*
of twenty semi-inspired resolutions, each one of
which was calculated to make the sinful old
Cabbage patch a perfect model of the Garden of
Eden before the Fall. Amongst the rest ot the
Pharisaical rubbish drawn up we find the follow?
mg clause: The seduction of a female by the
master in whose employ she is in any capaeity-
for example, such as a domestic servant, a gover-
ness, a shopwoman, a factory girl-if the girl be
under the age of eighteen years; and the seduc?
tion of a female pupil (if she be under the age of
eighteen years) by her teacher or tutor, or bvanv
master, teacher, or tutor of the school she attends 7
*9 b® a misdemeanour.” Wo have searched the
whole of this, and the other resolutions, but we
find no mention made of the penalty to be im-
posed on a meenister who exhorts with the wife of
one of his parishioners in a private room until
long after midnight; neither do we notice what
punishment is proposed to meet the case of a lay
preacher who endeavours to perform a miracle on
a Bible class sister by the ‘‘imposition of hands,”
and yet we have all heard of these things being
done —in America. This being the case, what is
there to prevent a bad-minded Brooklyn or Boston
divine from settling down over here and bringing
his pernicious vices along in his carpet bag with
him ? Nothing whatever; and, therefore, so far as
the encouragement of morality is concerned, our
candid opinion is that the unco guid who formed
the recent deputation could employ their time
with far more benefit to themselves and to society
at large by standing in front of a public-house bar
and expectorating at a chip for pennies. That’s
our opinion of the Social Purity Association mud-
dlers of Victoria.
This scarf, intended to be worn over the head
as seen, is ¼ yard wide and 3 yards long. The
foundation of loosely-made hand-weaving has
an extremely pretty effect by gas-light, as the
warp is composed of threads of fine gold wire
twisted with white cotton and worked over with
light-yellow Berlin wool. For an opera-hood it
is not only extremely comfortable, but most be-
coming.
Badly Needed.
A SOCIETY FOR CLOTHING THE INSUFFICIENTLY-CLAD FEMALES OF OUR “UPPAH SURCLES.”


THE
GNO
Flasao.
.
'
THE
Mig:non
PliilTO
Is the MOST SUCCESSFUL Instrument ever in- 1
traduced to Australia. SUPERIOR to all others 1
of similar size in Tone, Touch, Durability, and i
Finish.
THE
Migrnon,
PIAITO
Is Iron-framed, Double Oblique Trichord, and I
Seven Octaves in compass, in beautiful Walnut]
or Ebonised Case, or Gold Engraved.
THE
Mig^non
Plii^TO
Is the BEST and CHEAPEST Plano in Sydney. No
piano ever had such a sale as the “ MIGNON. ’ a,
...I
THE
W ilmer
PliilTO
ANOTHER BIG SUCCESS!
One of the LARGEST and BEST-CONSTRUCTED
Pianos ever made.
FULL-TONED 1
BEAUTIFUL QUALITY 1
PERFECTION OF TOUCH J
ALWAYS RECOMMENDS ITSELF 1
THE
Wilmer
PIA.ITO
Illustrated catalogues of the “ MIGNON,’'
“WILMER,” and all other good instruments, to
bo had on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
325 Goorge-street,
THE FIRST HOUSE IN SYDNEY FOR PIANOS
AND ORGANS.
MOULTON'S
FRUIT
LIVER COMPLAINT positively cured toy Ml/ULTON’S
FRUIT PILLS. We mean cured, not merely relieved, and j
we can prove what We say. There are no failures and do
disappointments. MOULTON’S FRUIT PILLS also cure
all BILIOUSNESS, prevent CONSTIPATION and DYS-
PEPSIA, promote DIGESTION, relievo -distress from too
hearty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH,
stimulate the LIVER, regulate the BOWELS, and PURIFY
THE BLOOD. The Cheapest and Bast Family Medicine
known, purely Vegetable (made of the Extract of Fruit>.
They are as nearly perfect as It is possible'for a Pill to be.
Bul.l Everywhere, PriW h. 3d.
C. E, MOULTON, Sidle Proprietor.
PIUS
A REGISTERED*
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and Ger ieral Debility, ami all complaints
that spring from la ok of nerve force, as Neuralgia,
toothache. Nervousness. Indigestion, Loss oi
Appetite, Female i Disorders, Liver and Kidney
Complaints, Gene ral Prostration, <fcc. By its tonic
and soothing effects it at once rem oves all craving
lor Alcohol. By its richness in 7>hosphorous and
jßher powerful vitalising element*), MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVIME nourishes and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price, 4s. 6d., or 255. a case.
Sold everywhere.. Sole Proprietors. MARSHALL
"MOTHERS, M.P.S., Manufacturing and consult-
Chemists, 104 and 106 Marßet-streoi, tear
ivrt„ p«rk Rviln.nv. M.K—An imitation* tllev» ,
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
PAPERHANGINGS!
with
DADOES, BORDERS,
FRIEZES to match,
NURSERY PAPERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, *O.
Imported by
Alexander Borthmck
281 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Hunter-st.)
PAINTER?’ & DECORATORS’ MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, V»
nlsbes, Brushes, Gold Leaf, <kc.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
UTN
535
K
6i
s
0\
t,
*
r n
o
INVALUABLE
.ns t SUFFERING £-/7
EfP'J H^er
you
T^e
ss
L»
b i f j
m
ADAPTED FOR THE
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
Eev. Father Wilds’
EXPERIENCE.
The Kev. Z. P. Wilds, well-known city
missionary in New York, and brother
of the late eminent Judge Wilds, of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, writes
as follows:
“78 E. 54 th St., Mew York, May 16, 1882.
Messrs. J. C. Ayer & Co., Gentlemen :
Last winter I Avas troubled Avith a most
uncomfortable itching humor affecting
more especially my limbs, AA r hlch itched so
intolerably at night, and burned so intense-
ly, that 1 could scarcely bear any clothing
over them. I Avas also a sufferer from a
severe catarrh and catarrhal cough; my
appetite Avas poor, and m.y system a good
deal run doAvn. KnoAving the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, by observation of
many other oases, and from personal use
in former years, I began taking it for tiro
above-named disorders. My appetite im-
proved almost from the first dose. After
a short time the fever and itching Avere
allayed, and all signs of irritation of the
skin disappeared. My catarrh and cough
Avere also cured by the same means, and
my general health greatly improved, until
it is< iioav excellent. I feel a hundred per
cent stronger, and I attribute these results
to the use of the Sarsaparilla, Avhich
I recommend Avith all confidence as the
best blood medicine ever devised. I took
it in small doses three times a day, and
used, in all, less than tAVO bottles. I place
these facts at your service, hoping their
publication may do good.
Yours respectfully, Z. P. Wilds.”
The above instance is but one of the many
constantly coming to our notice, which prove
the perfect adaptability of Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla to the cure of all diseases arising
from impure or impoverished blood, and a
Aveakened vitality.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cleanses, enriches, and strengthens the blood,
stimulates the action of the stomach and
boAvels, and thereby enables the system to
resist and overcome the attacks of all Scrofu-
lous Diseases, Eruptions of the Skin, Rheu-
matism, Catarrh, General Debility, and all
disorders resulting from poor or corrupted
blood and a low state of the system.
prepared by
Dp.J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.
Sold by all Druggists; price §l, six bottles
for $5.
AYER’S
CATHARTIC
PILLS.
Best Purgative Medicine
cure Constipation, Indigestion, Headache, and
all Bilious Disorders.
Sold everywhere. Always reliable*
BLLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
&
s
HKISH B/^
ROWLANDS' MACASSAR OIL pre-
serves, strengthens, and beautifies the hair; it con-
tains no lead or mineral Ingredients, and can now
be also had in a golden colour, which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
ROWLANDS’ KALYDOR is a most cool-
ing, healing, and refreshing wash for the face,
hands, and arms, and is perfectly free from any
mineral or metallic admixtures ; it disperses
freckles, tan, prickly heat, redness, pimples, &e
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE pi Ad-
duces immediately a perfect change in red or grey
hair, whiskers and eyebrows, to a and per-
manent brown or black, which colour neither
washing nor perspiration Avill remove.
Ask any dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’
articles, of 30, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious Avorthless imitations.
Wholesale and Retail Agents: Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
PURE COUNTRY MILK.
fJIHB MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is either manufactured at their own depfit
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
SI HARBOUR STREET.
OLEND
JmaMl
JTradb
.A
Sic IS TEBtS
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY —Thin Is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
i/xuing fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTBLL & CO., Sol©
Agents.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
«sfSs*
WwsiS
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
SOLB~AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGBN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
VT MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE,
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
(S
Wl:
%
lA
Vn
r
Lfi
o
%
%
%
e
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals. *
THE SOUTHERN CROSS
TEA ASSOCIATION.
** 2s. per lb.
The TEAS sold
by this Associa-
tion have been
specially selected
and blended by an
Expert, to meet
the taste and re-
quirements of the
Australian pub-
lic.
TRADE
MARK.
[ Registered .}
Our TEAS are
unequalled in the
Australian mar*
ket and nnex*
celled in the
world for quality,
flavor & strength |
the public may
confidently rely
upon always re*
eeiving a Tea of
uniform standard
an>l excellence.
Henochsberg t
Manages.
OFFICE and DEPOT:
114 Pltt-street, Sydney.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL and CO.,
IMPORTERS and MANUFACTURERS of
DIVING GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing i
Plumbing, Gaslitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-fltting
of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “ VALV^”& b CLOSETS, " VACUUM ” WATER-WASTE
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application. *
T*7"lll3^CLore , s Palace Hotel,
(LATE COFFEE PALACE No. 2), PITT-STREET NORTH, SYDNEY. -—~
TEE Proprietor of the above establishment, having obtained a Wine and Spirit License Ik' nnvl
prepared to carry on the business of a FIRST-CLASS HOTEL In conjunction with tiie weha
kuown Restaurant previously known as Coffee Palace No. 2. Every accommodation for oountrV
visitors. 100 first-class bedrooms. In close proximity to the mall boats and intercolonial steamer*
and tramway terminus. Hot and cold shower and plunge baths. Night porter always in attendance
HY. WILLMORE, Proprietor.


WeakNervo
Whose deb!
r - powers, p
yift and failure
■*' duties prop
excesses, err
will find a p
restoration t(
and vltroro
, the mar:
storr
< instruments.
Blervous ]
~ > Physical D
successful because based on j
new and direct methods ai
oughncss. Full information i
Address Consulting Physician oi
MARSTON REMEDY CO.. 52 Casl
m
J. TURNER
TAILORING ESTABL
MARKET CLOT]
478 Geome-s
Medals Gamed against the World
'vS
First Prizes and Exhibition.
MR. F. W
SURGEON-DEN
KIDMAN’S BUI]
Corner George & market I
KSP” Teeth painlessly extracted
Alther Spray, Methyline, an
MASON BBO'
14 and 16
Sy
Have always in
to the THAI
SALE BUYE
IRONMONGEI
GBNBR-
GLASS
A
EARTH]
WINES, BEER
and i
BULK ME]
Ago:
JOHN WALI
Old Highli
J. soreS
Ct
J. T.G
Schnapps t
A. MELV i]
Edinburg
C. B. MOD
Gun Maker &
Don’t Die in the House.— “ Rough on Rats,’
clears out rats, mice, beetles, roaches, bed-bugs,
flies, ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents,
“ The Vagabond ” had better look to his
laurels—or whatever he now covers his skull-top
with. He has a rival In the field—ln the Hay field
—one “ Vagabond Socundus.” In the local Stan-
dard, this youth pours out his soul—in pro?e. He
commences, loftily, as follows:—“ As I now get the
name, though inappropriate, of being the travell-
ing Vagabond ‘Secundus,’ I beg to submit you a
very brief account of my run through Mount Hop
and Hlllston.” He visits, escorted by “ two trust
worthy and efficient constables” the lock-up a ;
Hlllston. “It,” he graphically mmarks, “housec.
four prisoners, and I must conscientious y say tha
the stench from that place necessitated me to
throw oil the contents of my stomach.” “ Hill
ston,” says this glorious chronicler, “supports
three‘hotels, some (sic) of which are highly re
pectable. Mr. Charters’ hotel is second to none
Australia, his table d’ hotel (sic) is, to use flowery
language, superb, and hl« class of visitors are what
are vulgarly termed ‘the big bugs’” Another
pub. (which the “some”) is also to his
liking, the landlady being “ homely ” and “ much
admired.” The third landlord seems to have worn
thicker boots; for, says “ Vagabond Secundus,’
with dignity, “if I can’t give a man a high char-
acter, I leave him to Jess unworthy hands;” which
under the (presumable) circumstances, is a wise
proceeding. He then goes to “the Wheelbarrow
(? Whealbah) Hotel,” where, however, the perverse
landlord refuses to supply him with anything but
whisky, so all he has to ichew that night under a
dray is the cud of reflection. Ho strikes It, how-
ever, at the Gunbar Hotel, the landlord of which
he finds “ a most genial and kind-hearted gentle-
man; his name is well-known from Sydney to the
Gulf of Carpentaria as a man who coujd see no
man hungry.” Later on, says he, “ I next visited
the stores of Messrs. Meases and Fay, and through
the pert (tic) kindness of Mr. Simpson—.” Here,
you see, another startlingly original writer has
arisen amongst us. Hero, you observe, i« chroni-
cled the advent of another fitting subject for an
intelligent horse to kick I
Apropos of the Queen’s book, “More
Leaves, a New York paper parodies it in the fol-
lowing, which has been republished in a London
paper:—“January 1.-This is the first day of the
year, and Beatrice reminds me it is New Year’s
Day. What a beautiful coincidence I We had
cream, toast, and muffins for breakfast, and I had
two helps to each. Brown said ho was delighted
to see my old appetite for muffins returning.
March B.—Brown has a cold. I mode him four
mustard-plasters, which were applied by the Royal
College of Surgeons. He ordered Doan Stanley to
sing a* Te Deum.’ Ho sent back word that, per-
sonally he would prefer to whistle it. Wanted Mr.
Tennyson likewise to change ‘ Locksley Hall,’ so
as to bring Brown in. He replied that ho would
be delighted to, but the only lines ho could find
for Brown wore syntax, delirium, and meningitis,
and he didn’t think any of these words would do.
April I.—Brown came in this morning with a large
placard on his back, which bore the Initials • N.G.’
when I called his attention to it, he was real
angry, and said ho supposed it was done by the
Prime Minister, or som> body. I shall ask Mr.
Gladstone about it. The eat had a fit this morning,
which quite upset us all. The Collage of Surgeons
was In attendance, and said it was meat. Brown
says it Is likely to die if it bad more than a dozen.
Dear me I April 10.—I sent for Brown, and road
him this journal for a year. He sat with closed
eyes, nodding his head whenever I came to a
favourite passage. He then said that he did not
think any distinguished woman had ever written
anything like it. I chided Brown for flattery, but
he assured me it was the honest truth. I will read
it to Mr. Gladstone. April 11.—Mr. Gladstone
called. I read It to him. April 13.—Mr. Gladstone
is very 111. April 15—Beatrice and I wont out for
a walk. Brown accompanied us. We walked up
a hill and then we walked down. May 3.—Brown
said this morning that Mr. Gladstone should settle
that Egyptian matter at once. I sent for Mr.
Gladstone, and told him. He said that Brown
ought to mind his own business.”
The flunkeyism of the Conservative press
attained its zenith when Vanity Fair published
the subjoined par:—“On Tuesday, of last week,
the races of the Household Brigade were held at
Bandown. There were many men present, but the
numbers of the fair sex were very limited. It
could hardly be otherwise, considering that Esher
was the home of Prince Leopold, who had only
been laid to rest three days previously. The Scots
Guards’ band played splendidly, and everybody
tried to look cheerful, but nobody succeeded. Alto-
gether, it was a melancholy function." British
snobbishness seems to have quite outdone Itself in
regard to Albany’s death. Hundreds and thou-
sands of people who never knew him put on lacka-
daisical airs of melancholy and visages de circon-
stance simply to make good a claim to be in
society. Oddly enough, Vanity Fair, in the same
Issue in which the above par. appeared, published
a letter that strongly protested against the lick-
spittle servility that pretends a paroxysm of woe
because a death has occurred in the Royal
family. “ If,” says the writer of this letter, “ our
regret for the loss of an individual is to be in
proportion to his rank, I should like to be informed
exactly how much weeping is to be done when a
Duke departs for paradise, and how many tears are
to be shed when a Marquis goes over to the ma-
jority; how many sighs are to be heaved when an
alderman retires from this scone of turtle and
tribulation, and whether it is becoming to drop
the conventional tear when a costermonger is
compressed into the parochial coffin. I should also
like to know whether these touching rites ought
to be reciprocal; and whether, if it is the duty of a
costermonger to lament a duke, it is equally in-
cumbent on the duke to lament a costermonger.
For my own part, I confine myself entirely to re-
gretting the dead people with whom I have been
acquainted.” The common sense of the remarks
just quoted contrasts strangely with the informa-
tion in the same journal that the Household Bri-
gade race meeting was a melancholy function
Because of Prince Leopold’s decease. A race
meeting, a melancholy function! Why the thing
out-Jeameses Jeames.
Persons who had the supreme felicity of
visiting the old Garden Palace Art Exhibition,
must remember that most naughty, and, of course,
most popular picture the “Temptation of the
Good St. Anthony.” Without exception, this was
the most tropica) subject in the whole show, and
every inch of the canvas seemed to be yelling out
for a Social Purity gang to troop right along and
set fire to the whole concern. The picture repre-
sented St. Anthony seated in his solitary-oonflne-
ment-looking cell with a prayer-book, a grinning
skull, and other appetizing and cheerful objects
scattered around. His head was bent low, and his
hands were spread before his face to enable him to
shield his sight from the tempter’s charms, or to
peep through his fingers, just as the inclination
Struck him. The temptation consisted of about
Bst. 101 b. of a beautiful blonde whose only covering
was her long yellow hair which hung like a veil of
geld around her. It was, Indeed, as the poet sang :
“A sight might thaw old Priam’s frozen age,
And warm e’en Nestor into amorous rage.”
But it didn’t warm Anthony any more than a
Sunday-school tract, or a fall down a 60-ft. well
would, for he still kept his head bowed down, and
prayed away with a forty-parson power. Why we
think of the old saint and his troubles, to-day, is
simply because M. Jules Gamier has just complet-
ed a picture, compared with which St. Anthony’s
Temptation looks as mild as a soda-water fountain
by the side of a dynamite keg in full blast. This
Gamier chef-d'oeuvre is called “ Borgia s’amuse.”
The subject is Pope Alexander VI. standing in the
centre of a room whilst a circle of voluptuous
looking women, about 25 per cent, more naked
than wnen they were first Introduced to this vale
of tears, do a high-kicking fandango round him.
It is simply St. Anthony’s Temptation multiplied
by 27; and yet, what is called “Temptation” for
the saint io merely termed “ Amusement ” for the
Pope. M. Garnier’s picture was unanimously re-
jected by the jury of the Paris Salon, but the
aggrieved painter will find, no doubt, some com-
pensation for this verdict in the succcs de curiosiU,
that it will ensure his nice, but naughty work. He
will expose it somewhere else, and then, all the
hoary-patod sciatica-racked old sinners, and all th©
Jaok-Bheppard-headcd young prodigals for a hun-
dred miles around will rush, and crush, and tear,
and swear, to get a chance to gloat on the las-
civious sight of “ Borgia s’amuse.”
The secretary of the Y.M.C.A. of Lyttel-
ton, N.Z., recently said he knew an Australian
M.P. who lately gave a banquet t > “celebrate the
hundredth seduction effected by him.’’ During
that week, every lady of the choir came privately
to the rev. gentlen an to learn the name of the
geccant M.P., in order that she might pray for
Read this once, and it will be at every pic-
nic: this item, we say, once tried, you will take no
other. For nervous complaints, it will be found
an invaluable panacea; and, if properly applied, it
will be highly beneficial in oases of the most acute
melancholia. Here is the story, which has been
accepted in its integrity by every lournal but ours
—principally, we believe, because we were born at
Tancanhuitz (wherever in brimstone that is!) and
Invented the Santa Hosa Mountains. Listen:—"A
wild boy was recently caught In the Santa Rosa
Mountains, in the vicinity of Tahcanhuitz. He
was carried to that town and put in a well-fenced
garden, where he greedily consumed fruit, lettuce,
roses, and the roots of several plants. He never
spoke nor appeared to notice those who went to
see him. He seemed perfectly harmless; but one
day he seized a little child, three years of age, and
began to eat it.” Now for the sequel,—and agents
are requested to send in their orders early, together
with 4d. extra for rolling and glazing. Well, they
chained up the wild man, and fed him on nails,
sardine-tins, and boiler-nuts for twenty-four hours
—viands which he was charitably allowed to wash
down at intervals with condemned kerosene. Next
night, about half-past seven o’clock, a party with
a tall hat and a bundle of slips looked over the
fence. Then he shook bis head sadly and said:
“ Oh, Smith, this is too badl It’s your night to do
the theatres for the papers, and here you have
broken out again.”
The San Francisco Mail Company propose
shortly to send an old steamer called the Senator
to Auckland to be used as a coal hulk. This an-
cient craft was built In New York in the latter
part of 1847, and was launched in 1848. A corres-
pondent of a N.Z. paper relates a somewhat tough
nanlgoat in connection with this vessel, which we
skin and boil down till nothing is left but this little
Sunday-school tale. A certain captain, whose last
ship tried to jump an Iceberg, and who, in conse-
?uence of what followed, was now on the look-out
or another billet, no sooner set eyes on the new
steamer, than ho struck an attitude of admiring
rapture and warmly praised her many fine points
and Unos fore and aft in presence of a stranger,
remarking at the same time how much he wished
himself in command in mid-ocean with a big hurrl-
cane a long way in front, and a howling old tornado
clawing up the scenery several hundred miles in
the rear. The stranger, strange to say, turned out
to be the owner of the ship, and when the captain,
by appointment, called at his office next morning,
he gave him the billet of commander, and certain
instructions* which the latter proceeded to carry
out. It would appear that the owner was at the
time in financial difficulties, and that a bum-bailiff
was actually in possession of the steamer. The
new captain, however, decided to try her paces
down the East River, so with the officer’s consent
he gave her a spin up and down the stream, going
down further each time until he got beyond
Governor Island. The bailiff then began to feel
uneasy, and told the captain to turn back, but the
latter, seeing he was beyond the range of the guns
on the island, struck a match on his left hip, and as
he lit his cigar, quietly remarked, “ Well, now,
sonny, I will do the square thing by you. I will
land you on Squam Beach, if you like, but if you
prefer it I will put you off on Terra Del Fuego
just before I round the Horn. There are no mis-
sionaries there now, and the natives would be glad
to make your acquaintance. They are splendid
hash-concealers, and when two or three of them
get outside a white man, it would just do your soul
good to seo them pat their stomachs and smack
their lips—it would, indeed; but, of course, you
would not get a chance to see them do it.” The
bailiff decided to land at Squam Beach, and the
steamer went to San Francisco and traded on the
Sacramento and ’Frisco rivers, where she soon
made a pile for her once all-but bankrupt owner
This story is quite true, because the man who re-
lates it was once a passenger in another steamei
I commanded by the same captain, and he had the
story from his own Ups!
“Bedad,” was the exclamation of the boy
with the auburn hair who was doing duty on the
“bate” in Gertrude-street, Fitzroy (Vic.), when,
one morning before daybreak a few weeks ago,
he espied thirteen “ goold-top ” bottles snugly
stowed on the door-step of a shop at the corner of
Gertrude and Napier streets; and then ho added,
“ Begorra, I’ll just thry if it’s the rale shtuff.”
That it had been, however, he could easily tell
after a closer examination of the bottles, but the
whole baker's dozen were as dry as—the constable
himself. “ ’Pon my sowkins, that’s quar* 5 , so it is,”
murmured he, abstractedly, as he planked himself
dowrj beside the “dead marines” and began to
think out the probability of getting a “ sthripe ” if
he could only put his ten Ungers on the burglar.
He carefully removed the “dead ’uns” to the lock-
up to await further developments, and during the
next day he sadly disarranged his auburn tow in
trying to solve the mystery. “ Och, tare-an-ouns,
there they are agin,” he ejaculated, when passing
the same spot on the next morning, he beheld pre-
cisely the same number of bottles ranged in a
similar manner to those of the previous day—and
they were empty I “Arrah, thin, ’tls the mane
thieves ye are, whoiver ye be, not to lave as much
as a dhrop to put inside a dacent boy’s waistcoat,”
said the disconsolate “Robert,” as he lugged the
“empties” to the station when the grey dawn of
the morning was breaking over the distant Dande-
nong Ranges ; and he further added, “By my
sowl, but it’s a sargint I’ll be made out and out
whin I have the luck to ketch the maraudorin’
blackgards. ’Tls the divil himself that’s been
havnra carouse, and a mighty good one at that,”
was the profane saying of the puzzled policeman
when for the third time, the evidence of a big
jollification stared him in the face from the usual
location ; “ but they’ll do nothing leas than make
an Inspecthor av me afther I’ve got to the bottom
av this mystery,” he added as he humped the
cargo of empties for the third time to the barracks
and dumped them down alongside of the other
lots. Still there was no clue to the thieves, and
for ten mornings the same performance was re-
peated until the Fitzroy station looked like a
wholesale liquor-vending establishment. And all
through the weary watches of the nights that
vigilant policeman used to keep his “ aigle-eye ” on
that corner, but never a trace could he get of how
the bottles came there nor could he obtain the
slightest clue to the bibulous mystery. After
awhile however the secret leaked out. Four young
roysterers, sons of the squatocracy, were having
a “tare round ” in the c ty, and had wagered that
each should drink an equal share of the baker’s
dozen of champagne during the day, and that the
soberest of the lot should place the bottles as stated
in the quiet hours of the morning. That they did
so goes very much towards showing what a vigilant
and effective body of traps are on duty in Fitzroy.
Anyhow, no less than 130 “empties ” were stacked
alongside of the Fitzroy lockup, and a special
waggon had to be chartered to remove the lot to a
marine store. And now when the Auburn haired
policeman hears the cry of “ bottle, oh,” he gets
pretty mad, and “ immagetly ’’puts the “ move on ”
clause into operation on the smallest boy he can
And on the footpath. He hasn’t got the exthra
sthripe yet.
ECONOMY OF TIME.
ALWAYS HAVE YOUR OFFICE IN A SUITE OF CHAMBERS. IT IS SO CONVENIENT-
FOR PERSONS HAVING BUSINESS WITH MORE THAN ONE PROFESSIONAL.
MUDGEE PRISON LABOUR.
WHY CAN’T THE GOVERNMENT PUT THE PRISONERS TO SOME LIGHT OCCUPATION
LIKE THIS, AND SATISFY A. G. TAYLOR, INSTEAD OF COMPETING WITH THE IN-
DUSTRIOUS TRADESMEN OF MUDGEE?
