

THONY
PALACE T=TK /tt=tyi=?.ttt^ . /r
3
3
WE ABE MAKIIG
GRAND PREPARATIONS
the Coming Christmas
NTHONY HORDERN AND SONS
P
palace emporium, haymarket, only.
CHRISTMAS IMPORTATIONS are arriving by every opportunity, and we have determined to make a Display of
Goods hitherto unequalled.
consignments of Carpets, Floorcloths, and other goods connected with House Furnishing, are already to hand, and in
* these we are making Special Prices for the Christmas Trade.
will not be forgotton, for DOLLS and TOYS of every description will, as usual, be a prominent feature in our
I CHRISTMAS SHOW, and these particular goods will include many of a perfectly unique and novel character.
Ve Special -Lines in our IMPERIAL CLOTHING, for Christmas, and everything requisite and desirable for CHRISTMAS
GIFTS and PRESENTS will be found in the most delightful variety.
WHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Only.
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


(LIMITED),
REDFEEN WORKS, SYDNEY.
S-S'" UNEQUALLED SAFETY. tW EXTREME SIMPLICITY. Pf GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
LEAST POSSIBLE WEAR OF ROPES.
• •
'
■
m
ws
EiS£2i£
Mim-M
si *
a
x ■
ySiWi
iSQQ
C_„
fci,
fewSC
7/
V//
/ //'////
///
//
l///
w
-■
IS
Sne
■siLL
93B S
-ii_
.
s&sai
■
S2&~ SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION. {^FREEDOM
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Digrams, &c., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHER* Kcerent-stret, Kedfcrn,
Sole Agents for
The Otis Hydraulic Elevators.
MJLm i. msimLL^iirco.
IMPOBTSSSS and MANUFACTURERS of
DBViNG SEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
.Hydrants, Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c.
SSF” Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
Plumbing, Gaslitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneumatic Bell-litting
of every description.
DOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & "PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, Ac.
Sole Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
BON ACCORD WORKS, 8 & 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particular” and price on application.
80LE IMPORTERS OF
Only Iron-framed Pianos §
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
IS7 PITT STREET.
. ;:
D«DO
I
C^S§
M
SOLE ASENTB FOR THE
SMITH ORO-AST.
& BBU CE,
137 PITT STS.SST
YANKEE DOODLE
' ; ; r
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
. . „ —.."SgC'r-
•V
■m
m
IslqijkkOjX
TOBACCO
*^STOX POPULL Ml. This mighty power has built the D7SSON’S great Tobacco Factory. How ? The
W voice of the people declaring the YANKEE DOODLE and ( 03SQD JSKOR Tobaccos their own,
' demanded the supply—Dixson and Sons responded—and hence a Tobacco Factory having no equal in
the Southern Hemisphere, and consuming the bulls of all the Imported American Leaf Tobacco.
MEMO, to you from
is Fitt-st.,
To Residents in the Country.
You cannot do better than send down to us for Goods
whenever you want something nice and tasty, different
from what you* can get in the country stores.
Send down to us for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Grade, and Prices.
You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hordern Brothers,
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISCOE, DRY SO RLE Si CO.,
DDL Dim, aii MMJ MEBSS
387 GEORGE STREET,
6€ and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLA^'
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OP
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery,
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agriculture
Implements,
iflb
ENGINES*
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
MACHINERY.
BOILERS.
Vortical and Horizontal
Saw Benches
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping. Planing, Slotting and
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
■a, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws.
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements. s<><?
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rolle^'uiD* 3 '
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters, Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant. /
COACH Builders’ Sundriks.—Axles, Springs, Wooden ware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varin
Masury’s celebrated Coach Colours.
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Co
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolied I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Locks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Shoot Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools*
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDAIiE AND CO-
-397 fx&orgna'Sftraaf, Sidney.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt-* 41 *
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
c
— ,
ATER’S system of Importing all goods from the mannfacturers, and retailing them a “
> prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by ourlargely-inereasing trade. ffl
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS, LACES, GLOVES, A
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
fvT- Our introduction of Glove-fltting at the counter as done in Paris, is a great i
now both Lady and Gentlemen fitters engaged.
* NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO SELECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
■W- W. CATEE,
193 and 195 PITT STRE
W. SHEARSBY & CO.,
Merchant TaiSers, Habit, and Hobs ’
Trousers from 21s. to 40s. pl ) & ,
|3f” N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farm er 9
W , Sheaksby & Co., Albert House, Temple Court,
W


THE
BULLETIN
Vol. 2.—No. 83.—New Series.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1884.
Prloe—6d.
Our Defensive Forces.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1884.
It is difficult to know to what precisely to
attribute the movement afoot to form a
corps of Volunteer Ca\alry in the city of
Sydney. Imitation seems to have had some*
thing to do with it, as such a corps has just
been constituted in Brisbane, at the instance
of a Mr. Ricardo, an ex-officer in the
Household Cavalry. There is nothing appa-
rently in the political condition of the world
which Indicates that a cavalry corps is moie
likely to be needed in the immediate future
than there has been any time during the
past twenty years. Old residents of Sydney
can remember when just such a troop was
in existence and most gorgeously uniformed
and can also recollect how short a time it
lasted. We have seen it stated that the
German war authorities entertain a convic-
tion that in future wars cavalry will be more
extensively made use of than ever befdre
This is a remarkable theory when viewed by
the light of the last great war, and the im-
poteuoy of bodies of cavalry when con
fronted by infantry armed with breech
loading rifles. It seems most likely that
what is meant is a revival of the old prac-
tise of employing dragoons; who were in-
tended to be simply mounted infantry, but
during a long peace became indistinguish-
able from other cavalry. The value ot
mounted soldiers is not to be contested, when
regarded from the tactician’s point of view.
The difficulty of keeping the horses pro-
vided with forage alone limits their value.
An army which can, at a pinch, move sixty
miles in eight or ten hours, is equal to two
armies which can only manage half the
distance in double the time and then
arrive at the objective point in a condition
of physical exhaustion. In the case of
mounted infantry, it would be the horses
only which would be exhausted. The men
themselves might be practically fresh and
ready for action on foot. Every horseman
knows that rapid motion is less fatiguing
than slow, and any Australian stockman
will say that a sixty-mile ride at a canter or
hand-gallop, alternated for the nag’s sake
by spells at walking pace, leaves a man
fresh enough for anything. A troop of
cavalry, modelled on the old-fashioned plan,
we do not believe would be serviceable, as
such, in the defence of Australia. A Sydney
troop, especially, is likely to be an absur-
dity. Its employment would naturally be
to operate against an enemy just landed, or
landing, and there are probably not a dozen
tracts of twenty acres of cleared land suit-
able for cavalry along the coast within fifty
miles of the metropolis. In the interior
parts of the colony, the case is different
somewhat. But assuredly the interior would
not look to the metropolis for mounted men.
*
The Australian settler is almost invariably
a fair horseman—a better horseman gene-
rally than the class from which the cavalry
regiments of England, France, and Germany
are formed. And the class of stockmen and
young men on stations are horsemen of the
highest grade, and generally, without being,
Boers or the Canadian back-woods,
men, crack shots, are fairly handy with fire,
arms. There are thousands of such men in
the country who ■would respond with ala-
crity to a call to arms, and who in time
of war would be ready at one hour’s no-
tice to present themselves with a couple
of good horses, riding one and leading
another, packed, to receive rifles and ammu-
nition, and thenceforth to be ready to
make a dash of a couple of hundred
miles in any direction in any one week.
We don’t mean to say that every smart
horseman in the bush owns two good horses.
But we do mean to say that, even if the
appeal which brought from them as re-
sponse the offer of their lives to defend the
country, failed to equally elicit from stock-
owners the offer of horses enough to mount
every volunteer, it would bo no very violent
or exceptional edict in war time which
would enable every volunteer to help him-
self and give an acknowledgment. The
mobility of suen a body of mounted men
operating in Australia would prove proba-
bly greater than any yet recorded in mili-
tary history, because, at the end of any rapid
dash of (say) a week’s duration, the horses
wou’d probably be even fresher than the
men; inasmuch as, in all likelihood, a whole
brigade would reach its destination on horses
MISS ELSIE STANLEY-HALL, aged 7 years
THE GIFTEL AUSTRALIAN MUSICIAN.
different from those it started with, having
re-mounted itself cnroute. Most Australian
stockmen aud “jaekeroos” are as handy at
breaking and rough-riding as they are at
the elegancies of equestrianism, and, sup-
posing that each trooper led a pack-horse,
as would possibly be the case, or, at any
rate, that each troop had a spare horse for
every man, carrying a pack of provisions
and “ swag,” driven in a mob to accompany
it, no treatment would be better suited to
take the rough edge off even unbroken
horses, supposing a sufficiency of broken re-
mounts could not be come across. Fighting
from the saddle need scarcely be contem-
plated. The country is uneuited for it,
generally speaking, and the advantage of
having sharp-shooters plumped down at the
desired spot wherever required, and guffi-
ciently trained to be able to rally in solid
formations at the word of command, would
be infinitely superior to anything likely to
be attained by dashes among timber by
mounted men, or by charges in squadrons
where the absence of trees made the ground,
in old-fashioned parlance, "favourable for
the operations of cavalry.” For it has to be
borne in mind that that phrase is no longer
true to its meaning. Open ground is not
now favourable for oavalry to attack in-
fantry, even when the infantry is in line.
Open ground is quite as favourable for the
operation of foot-soldiers, armed with
breechloading rifles, against cavalry. Dur-
ing the Franoo-Prussian war, for the first
time since the invention of gunpowder, the
spectacle was afforded, in some engage-
ments, of infantry adyancing in open order
in pursuit of oavalry which had attempted
to charge them.
* * »
It is to the inland parts, therelore, that
the colony must look for its mounted de-
fenders. The Sydney troop will do as a
plaything in the meantime. It will include
in its raDks, no doubt, a certain proportion
of men who have graduated in horseman-
ship in the bush, but it will probably be
managed and drilled by officers schooled in
the regular cavalry, who will materially fol-
low the system they have practised, and in-
dustriously stamp out the only useful
qualities of the men. Mounted dudes will,
of course, help to swell the ranks, and these
will be simply useless, although it is quite
on the cards that the rule-of-thumb com-
manders may reokon them their most apt
j and tractable recruits, and, consequent
i their most valuable men—till they are
wanted for use. We cannot regnrd the pro-
posed Sydney troop as a serious organiza-
tion. It is contrary to common sense, and to
the natural conditions which real necessity
would bring out, that the city should fur-
nish cavalry. Artillery and foot-soldiers
are the natural products of a town popu-
lation ; and of artillery especially, this
colony, and particularly the coast cities, and.
peculiarly Sydney itself, are seriously defi-
cient. It is now generally known that the
permanent artillery is a rotten farce, de-
stroyed by the nepotism and petty tyrannies
with which peaceful times ever infeot a
military .body amidst a civil population
which has not learned by bitter experience
the stern necessity of insisting on perpetual
efficiency in preference to every other con-
sideration. The best soldier is the man who
touches his oap to his officer with the readi-
est grace, the most favoured offioer the one
who shows the readiest strategical aptitude
for ingratiating himself with a pompous old
Sybarite. The military authorities, who
cannot keep together men enough to man
the batteries, refused the other day to re-
engage a non-oommissioned officer because
he had—habitually missed the target at
practice? not at all {—because he had quar-
relled with the cook of the sergeant’s mess.
Comfort Ye, My People.
The people who don’t have to pay—such as
the Peers, and other aristocrats who draw in
pensions, salaries, and so forth, for selves
and families, a thousand pounds for every
one pound they pay into the Treasury—are
quite satisfied to keep on voting allowances
and grants for members of the Royal Family
as fast as these become big enough to hold
out their hats. But the people who do have
to pay, the British working classes, are out
of all patience. Here is what one of their
chief organs says about the matter: —
“It is pretty certain that in the ferthooming
session Mr. Glabstone will ask the House of
Commons to grant the Prince of Wales’ eldest son
either ten or flfteon thousand per annum—pro-
bably the latter. At any time, such a proposition
would be scandalous, considering the large income
eD joyed by his father, and the enormous wealth of
his grandmother. When and where, we ask, will
this disgusting mendicancy on behalf of the Royal
family cease? Unfortunately, the countless tribe
of the Queen’s grandchildren—close upon thirty—
are now arriving at that period of life when they
consider themselves entitled to be quartered on
the purse and pocket of the English working man-
How the parents and relatives of these princely
paupers can have the barefaced effrontery, im-
pudence, and audacity to rattle the begging-box
in their behalf, passes all conception. The Queen
wallows in wealth. A very large proportion of
her people are on the brink of starvation*
When we read of thousands of working men
starving in the north; of children dying by scores
through actual want of proper nourishment; when
trade is bad and getting worse; when the revenue
is falling, and commerce daily decreasing—surely
such a time is not one for pouring thousands into
the purse of a youth whose relations possess a
plethora of wealth, and are in the enjoyment of
enormous inoomes derived from the public purse!
Again, perhaps this extract from the letter of a
correspondent to the Daily News, now in the
north, may make some impression on the hitherto
impervious hides of sturdy and persistent royai
beggars and those who encourage them—but we
fear not. He says
‘ I have spent some days in house-to-house visi-
tation at various parts of the town, and l could to-
day put my linger upon a dozen cases of families
who are starving’. I take the following from a list
of a hundred cases or more which I have investi-
gated, and for which I have been able to secure
some temporary relief :—l. Three persons living in
a room 16 ft. by 16 ft. and 9 ft. high; rent, 2s. a-week;
starving; have notice to quit: soid most of their
clothes. 2. Three persons living in a cellar with-
out furniture; man, woman, and infaut; parents
eating a cabbage; child ill for want of food. ''- Un-
employed labourer and mother (aged 18) in attic:
no furniture; old woman on floor-flying, Dr.Blu-
mer reported, for want of food chiefly; no work
this year; last month got money for one week s
reDt of present room. In next attic are woman and
child who hgye bad no food all day. 4,. f amily of


EE POPULAR
BRIAN BORU
NOTE.— YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES
and therefore cannot boast of gold medals, &o.
/
Brian Boru
Whisky
is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
BM
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of the
OFFICER 3 OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum mado hot
and taken at bud-time.
tr PURE RUM.
Extra Strong,
M. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
G. W. ROBERTS’
Single Eeitle Oepartnent,
M&BIB7 BTBBBT.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
0. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET'
where you can obtain for
©<*-
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINK, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of suoh a Quality that cannot be surpassed at anj
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS'
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
Is now open In
MARKET STREET.
Kin or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler.
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold In this department.
The most Wholesome or all Bevebaqbs.
a W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
is. 6d. per bottle.
OLYNELISH WHISKT
to. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT {IACQUARIE RED WINE
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
fIENNESSY’S BTAR *** PALE BRANDY,
to. Bd. per bottle,
C. W. ROBERTS
JHarket Street , Sydney
seven; mother hasloollected smal I potatoes in fields;
this week no other food but old bread; no work
this year ; sold everythi- k to pay rent (2s. 6d.
a-week), but is behind, and has notice to quit.
5. Family of five—three infants; b»by dying; no
work this year; everything sold. 6. Old couple;
no work this year; pawned quilt to buy dinner:
in afternoon pawned shawl worn by wife to get
back quilt; nothing in hous- ; no money for
months; neighbours-end in bread. 7. Shipwright,
wife, and three children; no work since May; had
walked to Forth Bridge and back, five days eaoh
way, to get work; baby dying: no food at all some
days; lived six weeks on results of furniture sales.
8. Irish family of eleven; no work this year, ex-
cept harvesting; when no bread at home, children
went down and found things in the streets to eat.
“ What things ?” Old fruit or vegetables, crusts,
bones; woman sure that God won’tlet them starve.
9 Nine of family; twelve weeks without work;
wife just lately confined, and without any pre-
paration and furniture excepta bed; without any
clothes. 10. Three of family, mother, daughter,
and a grandchild; great distress; the children
dying through sickness, accelerated by want, pre-
sented a terribly emaciated picture, 11. Five of
family; two children lying ill whose recovery
was dependent on proper nourishment. 12. Three
of family; husband lying ill in bed; has been so
for two months; in great distress. Starvation has
only been prevented in mar y of the above cases
by the proverbial and generous charity of the poor
to each other. If the poor do not help each other
they must die in times like these.’
One thing is very certain—they will get no help
from royalty or Fawcett, Holms, Dilke, and
others, who in the most unblushing way repudiate
the principles that obtained them power, place,
and popularity.”
And here’s an item of intelligence quite in
keeping
“Dr. Harris, the medical officer of health at Sun-
derland, states that he regrets to inform the public
that the distress in the borough has for some time
past considerably affected the deßth rate of the
town, especially relating to infants and children.
It is to these deaths that he calls attention. In the
first quarter of this year, 159 infants under a year
old died; in the second quarter 183. and in the
third quarter the large number of 321. Asrain, as
regards children who are over twelve months, but
under five years old, 95 died in the first quarter,
102 in the second, and as many as 140 in the third
Children are dvlng in unusually large numbers.
The weak and the delicate are going first, to be
followed, no doubt, by the stronger. Infant » a
few months old are dying because their mothers can-
not nourish themselves, and hence are unable to
suckle their offspring, and cannot buy them the
milk which Is so necessary for their existence. Dr.
Harris fears there will be no decline in the mor-
tality unless a strong and systematic effort be
made to relieve the people. Their homes are bare
of furniture, their clothes arc scanty, the season
Promises to be cold, and fires are luxuries which
they cannot afford.”
* * *
Now, supposing the Queen were to send
flown a message to the Commons thus:—
‘Gentlemen, It had been my intention to
request you to relieve me of the expense of
maintaining my oldest grandchild by voting
him an allowance of £15,000 per annum.
Since then, however, the people who choose
what they think will please and flatter and
fool me to the top of my bent, in the news-
papers, for me to read to the exclusion of
other matters, have made a slip and per-
mitted me to learn that all the time thaty I
fancied I was discharging faithfully the
functions of a benevolent and worthy Sove-
reign—the mother of her people—my chil-
dren are perishing in the midst of plenty.
By my children I mean, now that my eyes
are opened, not the fruit of my womb, but
the children of the mother of her people—
those beings whom the Almigiitv has en-
trusted to my care, and for whom I, deluded
by a retinue of flatterers and traitorous de-
ceivers, have hitherto done nothing; but,
on the contrary, have taken to add to my
superfluous abundance the crust out of their
starving mouths. I have dismissed with
ignominy those treacherous servants who
have kept me in ignorance of the true con-
dition of my Queondom, and have led me to
pursue, through misapprehension, a course
which, instead of endearing me to the poor-
est of my subjects, has made me appear the
confederate of a plundering caste, and my-
self the greediest of all the host who fatten
on the wealth wrung by drops from the
agonized brow-sweat of millions of poverty-
stricken wretches. Gentlemen, I have re-
considered my intentions I now ask you to
grant the sum I had in view for my grand-
son, to relieve the immediate and pressing
necessities of at least a few of my unhappy
subjects. I am personally rich beyond the
dreams of avarice, and shall, at least in
future, provide for my own family. Gentle-
men, I fain would be loved by my people,
and, my eyes being opened, I perceive that
the adulation of sycophants is something
very different from the devotion of a nation.
Our common Lord laid down His life for
His people, and I recognise, at length, that
the least I can do is to lay down my hoards
for mine-” Conceive such a message as this.
Why, the shout of ‘‘God save the Queen”
which would arise from all the corners of
the earth would, instead of being expended
in faint and paltry echoes of banqueting
halls, rend the heavens, and, for the first
time, reach Him who had so often been
blasphemously mocked by tipsy and mean-
ingless voicings of the phrase. And, in days
to come, men would repeat, without the
gibes and sneers which now greet the vain
sound of “Albert the Good,” but with
full-hearted endorsement, the name of Vic-
toria the Good.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Modern Exodus.
While our contemporaries are content with look-
ing merely at the political or social aspects of the
great questions of the day, our sound Biblical
training, and that tendency to early piety which
has made us remarkable among modern journal-
ists, causes us to bo ever on the watch to compare
new things with old, and to seize with avidity any
opportunity which may occur of drawing a
parallel between Scriptural narrative and the his-
tory of our own times. Thinking persons cannot
fail to be struck with the singular analogy which
exists between the present position of a certain
section of the Civil Service and the ancient Jews
previously to the memorable exodus of the latter
from the land of their captivity, and when about
to cross the Great Assyrian Desert. The gentle-
men of the Lands Department, about to cross the
salt-bush and myall plains of the Groat Australian
Sahara, are in a somewhat similar condition of
expectant preparation. Each man has his loins
girded with a patent brace, his staff or a ten-and-
sixpenny umbrella is in his hand, his modern sub-
stitute for sandals (No. 19J4) are on his feet, the
Passover, thinly disguised in the form of vale-
dictory banquets of steak and porter, has been
partaken of; and they now only await the signal to
move forward, while Messrs. Farnell and
Oliver, who may be regarded as the Moses,
and Aaron of the expedition, stop behind to
direct its movements by electric telegraph.
We are aware that, in spite of a general lesem-
blance, many striking points of difference exist
between the circumstance! attending the modern
exodus and those surrounding the old. For
instance, a pillar of fog will be substituted for the
pillar of cloud to guide the Departmental wan-
derers by day; and, asjit is a species of guide to
which they are already thoroughly accustomed, it
is probable it will also take the place of the pillar
of tire, and remain in constant attendance on the
expedition both day and night. Again, Moses*
with an extensive stock of assorted miracles
always on hand, was unable to get the children of
Israel along at a greater rate than something
like forty miles In forty years, while Mr. Farnell
is serenely oonfldent of having each member of
his little band comfortably seated under his own
vine and fig-tree, and enjoying his own particular
allotment in the Promised Land, in something less
than three weeks! Of course, Mr. Farnell,
though doubtless capable of working miracles
(Parliamentary ones) on a pinch, is not above
making use of the many means of rapid locomo-
tion afforded by modern invention and scientific
discovery ; and, wtaTs the unfortunate children of
Israel had to hump their tabernacle and splodge
along through mile after mile of Assyrian sand-
drift on “Shanks’ pony,” our official pilgrims
will be rapidly transported in luxurious sleep-
ing-cars and the fast-going coaches of Conn
and Co. over limitless areas of black-soil plains
to a Canaan from which the Hittite and the
Peruzite, in the person of the truculent Abo-
riginal, have been already expelled by the strong
arms of a hardy raoe of pioneers. And, though
doubtless many glances will be cist backward by
yearning pilgrims in the direction of the Bligh-
street hash and coffee palace lunches they are
leaving behind them, they will not bo long enough
intramitu to render any miracles of the quail and
manna order absolutely necessary. Nor will the
smiting of any rock be required beforo the
Oibulous necessities of the thirsty wayfarers can
be ministered unto, for perennial fountains of
sbandygull and colonial rum can be stirted in the
most arid districts by a gentle and wood-pecker-
like tapping of the current sixpence of civilisation
on the pine counter of the desert Boniface. Touch-
ing the subject of locomotion, we have often won-
dered why Moses, with unlimited power at his
command, did not take more direct and effectual
means to overcome the difficulties by which he
was oppos d. To invent some vehicle, which
would have been a judicious compromise between
one of Piiaroah's war-chariots and a Cobb's
coach, would surely not have been more difficult
than to cover all the land of Egypt, including the
august person of Pharoah himself, with lice; and
to have erected, with one wave of hip omnipotent
rod, an iron suspension-bridge with hollow cylin-
drical supports, capable of transporting any num-
ber of Israelites in safety, and warranted to
crumble to pieces under the slightest pressure of
an Egyptian foot, oould hardly have been a more
expensive miracle to get up than his hydraulic chef-
d (Havre of standing the Usd Sea upon its hind legs.
A cheap and substantial tramway, on the endless
rope and stationary engine principle, would have
been of infinite service in conveying the Hebrew
hosts beyond the reach of their Egyptian tyrants,
and its construction should not have been an im-
possible feat to one who in five minutes could fill
every bed-room in the palace, the boots of Pha-
roaii’s enchanters, and the Princess’ boudoir, with
frogs, and create flies faster than a prosecuting
policeman can create lies. En parenthesc, what a
fortune might have been made about this time by
the inventor of a really inexpensive and service-
able fly-paper! Thoughts such as these cannot but
occur to the rellective student of Bible history,
who reads with the refulgent rays of the lamp of
Science shining on the page before him; and
though, probably, much that we have said may
have already frequently occurred to thougliful
churchmen such as our enlightened Primate, still
this reflection shall not prevent us from offering
our crude impressions to the theologian and the
commentator. In conclusion, we wish Mr. Far-
nell and the high priests of his department every
possible success in their undertaking. Let him
keep his pillar of fog moving along, and there is
little doubt that under its benignant shadow
every one will eventually shake down into his
proper place. Even then there is no reason why
such a time-honoured institution should be dis-
carded, or why it should not continue to wrap
things as heretofore in its mantle of impenetrable
inscrutability. Its right to brood over depart-
mental deliberations is a prescriptive one; and,
moreover, no one would ever recognise the De-
partment without it.
+
Little Billee.
“ We are familiar with the idea of cycles of mur-
der and of suicide; now, for the first time within
my memory,” observes a writer of a private letter
from England, “ wo have a cycle of cannibalism.
The hideous Mignonette allair follows close upon
the heels oftheGREBLY Arctic expedition. lam
told that the London Daily Telegraph which,
as is its wont, served up this awful tale of the sea
in an artistic way and graphically told the story
without reserve—told it, in fact, in what Judge
Manning and the fossils of Sydney would call a
‘sensational’ way—printed and sold on the occa-
sion an extra 50,000 copies. The other journals, the
conductors of which * toil onwards as toils the dull
bullock,’ and are the most lamblike set of people
imaginable, simply gave the facts dry and hard as
they came olf the telegraph wires, and their ver-
sions of the matter, to which no unusual promin-
ence given, attracted apparently not the
slightest attention. The narrative of the Tele-
graph, wbich woke up the torpid imagination of
the British public, and which gave the facts not
less correctly than the rest, engrossed the atten-
tion of the United Kingdom on that day. No
wonder that the Lews are kings among London
newspaper men, and that their journal-which
every day contains £llOO worth of advertisements
at the very least—should have a circulation 70,000
or 80,000 bigger than any other newspaper in
the Empire. It was at first announced that
the three men 4 had been rescued, and the
boy—(whose body they had eaten)—had died.’
Many a man who read the curt telegram which
prepared the community for the survivors’
‘frenzied confession,’ like unto that of the Ancient
Mariner, muttered to himself, 4 Yes, the boy died
No doubt. Poor little Bill-eel’ And so it proved.
The well-known 4 Bab Ballad,’ written a dozen
years ago, might be regarded as a circumstantial
prophecy of the fate of tho Mignonette boy. Some
of the French papers, I notice, find in this trag'c
episode an opportunity of attacking (with a terri-
ble cynicism worthy of the land of Rochefort
and Zola) the British character, 4 of which,’ says
one journal, ‘the conduct of the survivors affords
an admirable illustration. They killed and ate the
boy because be was single. The wolf found many
excuses for killing the lamb. There is a splendid
hypocrisy in the Englishman. Who but John
Bull would Lave knelt down and prayed before
murdering a dying boy ? The prayer of Monsieur
Dudley was, we are told, a prayer “asking for-
giveness.” It was also the burial service, and
grace before meat. The bachelor does not appear
to have a very good status in England.’ And much
more to the same effect.”
♦
44 e liocking Immorality.”
The Chief J ustice, Sir James Martin, in the course
of his letter to the Sydney Morning Herald
last week, referred in severe terms to the fact that
the sanitary condition of Sydney is abominable,
and that, while the existing suburbs are nearly as
bad, “builders, surveyors, and land owners are
preparing, with the connivance and approval of
aldermen and members of Parliament, hot-beds
for the growing of vigorous bacteria, fit to produce
in their development small-pox, typhoid, and
scarlet fever; and, if fortune should favour their
efforts, cholera, as a triumphant climax.” This is
very true. We have ourselves said something of the
kind before now, on several occasions. But where
lies the remedy? The Chief Justice does suggest
one. But we don’t believe that even were His Honor
to throw his talents and iniluence into an agitation
for the correction of the evils he indicates, he
could stay the pestilential process. Yet, as a matter
of fact, the prevention of further growth of the
evils could be arranged with reasonable facility.
Mr. George Keid, when member for East Sydney*
effected a considerable deal in the desired direc-
tion, by the Act which he got passed to prohibit the
laying out of streets and lanes of less than a decent
width. For this Act alone Mr. Reid will merit to
all time the gratitude of the community. But his
Act only points the way. What is primarily needed
as Sir James Martin points out, is another Act
to prohibit the sub-division of land into minute
allotments. This is a process which has been
going on uninterruptedly for years now, and
is one of the matters to which Sir James particu-
larly refers. The settlement of population upon
petty slices of land, totally unprovided with
sewerage, and each requiring its own insanitary
appendage, is a grievous wrong. People talk with
severe Phariseeism about “ immorality ”—a phrase
the signification of which they have so narrowed
that when immorality is mentioned only sexual ir-
regularities are understood. But the man who, to
grasp tho maximum of gain, sells land in such
positions and so negligently laid out that whole-
some living will bo impossible for those who ulti-
mately reside on that land, and that infant mor-
tality is rendered as sure a result as if
the land jobber turned Herod and visited
his former pr perty with a band of as-
sassins, is more immoral than the most vicious
and dissolute liver. He organises murder. The
experience of Sir James Martin when he, in
Parliament, endeavoured to carry a Bill to repress
the ravages of these assassins, is not singular.
Early in the history of Queensland, a Bill framed
with similar intentions was passed through the
Assembly. Its provisions stipulated, amongst
other things, that no sections should be sold
smaller tban a reasonable minimum which the
Bill fixed. The “ Corner-allotment Jimmies” and
land speculators in the Council threw out the Bi(l-
We need such a Bill in Sydney. But this system of
slicing is in full swing. Our most reputable citi-
zens and most GOD-fearing men are up to their
chins in it. The Parliament should peremptorily
step in. But many members are engaged in the
delightful enterprise, and those who are disin-
terested are notoriously difficult to interest against
any abuse.
The case of Regina v. Webb, after several post-
ponements, was set down for hearing on Wednes-
day, the lUth instant. As we go to press on that
day, we are unable to comment on the general
aspects of the case. But, without prejudicing
either side, it is permissible for us to explain what
seems to be not properly understood in reference
to the extraordinary difficulties whioh have inter-
fered with the prompt and proper hearing of the
case. The explanation of this matter is that,
while the real prosecutor, bir Henry Pauk.es,
has managed to shift the expense of his case
on to the broad shoulders of the taxpayers of
the colony, the unfortunate defendant has to
find the means for his own defence, and f
being a poor man, has, from first to last, been
quite unable to satisfy the ordinary requirements
of counsel. The whole mystification and trouble
is thus comprehensible. Mr. Butterworth's
services were only secured, for the first trial, an
hour before that gentleman went into Court to
take part in the case, by money being guaranteed
at the last moment which had not been available
earlier to clinch the engagement of counsel. Mr.
Butterworth did wonders lor his client, consider-
ing that not only had he no time to properly study
the case, but, as a new arrival in the colony, he
had no knowledge of the traditions which sur-
rounded the prosecutor and were essential to a
proper comprehension of the matter in all its
bearings.
Puck, ’85. Sixpen’orth of fun and frolic t


“THE. POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.']
We knew him when he was as fair
And fragrant, too, as summer air;
Now gaze on him—his brain is dazed,
And his dim “ ocular ”* is glazed;
And he has not a single “ thrum ”
Wita which to purchase his dear rum.
He is a mass of something, that
Is crushed within a bulbous hat;
Is hidden, as he staggering goes.
Within a bulbous suit of clothes.
We knew him, and, with gems bedight,
That lit up lurid in the light,—
This is a fact;
Oh, he was gorgeous in those days;
Sir James Martin’s Idea.
Yet he sa w far too many plays,
And he would actl
He Spent his all in advertising,
Now ’tis “five bob, or till the rising."
* “ Patience.”
The world Is closing in; Van Ghele Is mad in
Colombo; Miss Florence Slater is sane In Sydney;
Scott, of Emelie Melville’s company, is peacefully
resting beneath his little tombstone. This much
from Signora Tamburini-Coy, who hardly ever,
or never—or sometimes, though not very fre-
quently, but might bv chance—we are all liable to
it .. Fancy Melville the delicious and Eva Daven-
port in Calcutta, doing “Fatinitza,” the latter in
the title role —for which we learn f 10m somebody’s
Indian files she barely escaped fourteen days—of
triumph. It is on record that, after the first per-
formance, the fair Eva was, to her unbounded
surprise and concern, serenaded by au enthusiastic
Populace, chiefly composed of the lower orders,
with (the writing here becomes rather indistinct)
either banjos or boulders. We would it were in
our power to conscientiously think—” boulders ”!
But this is written for publication, and as a gua-
rantee of good faith South’s company (we mean,
of course, his operatic company) has been “ mash-
ing ” Cooma. and their appearance has been suc-
cessfully heralded by Moos. Louis Dubreuil, who
(though an agent) is not impervious to those softer
emotions to which we are all liable. We base this
supposition upon a copy of verses which he has
recently forwarded to another “distinguished”
operatic artist, of which the following is a vera-
cious extract:—
“ When you are far away, love,
And your thoughts on other dwell,
Will you cast one found (sic) rememberance (sic)
On one who loved you well ?
Who made you his fair idole ” (sic).
“ 'Tis a question
Too bard to ask of thee,
And yet it is so simple,
Will you ever thiuk of me.”
“ No! no! When you are far away,
And other feare (sic) And,
You will laugh and say * poor fool ’ ”
There is something about this that probes our
souls. When we see M. Dubreuil, we shall pro-
bably probe his soul—with a skewer .. And Verdi
—dead, too! “We knew him well, Horatio; he
was a man of infinite appetite, who was wont to
set the table on a famine.” Wa loved him for his
indolence, and admired him for the extreme
dimensions of bis “ knocker.” He could tell you
marvellous and stupendous yarns, tales that would
make your hair, if you had any, stand on end
tales of how he used to pile sideboards against the
doors of his sitting-room, and how colonial duch-
esses, not being able to effect an entrance, would
scale up plasterers’ ladders, and thus surrepti-
tiously effect an entrance through the window.
Verdi was a gorgeous, magnificent, and splendid
artist; and, if we did not know that ho was no
more in his silent tomb than Dan. O'Connor is, but
working his way steadily through his little nine-
teen meals a day in Bombay, we should not say
this. However, as you can call Verdi anything
(when alive) but too late for dinner, we have no
particular scruples anent writing about him....ln
Maryborough, Professor Hoffmann, who is con-
juring suites of furniture into the inhabitants of
that salubrious district, is assisted by Charley
Holly and Collins. Charley Holly, by the way, is
the champion golden-shoe dancer of Tambaroora,
and is likewise possessed (has been endowed
with it, in all probability, by a Divine Pro-
vidence) of the most translucent hiccup ever
known in five hemispheres. ..And do not let us
forget that Herr Kmoch, formerly with the Aus-
trian Rand, was thrown from his horse, alighting
on his head, and, not being a member of the staff
of the Evening Alfred, was killed. Alfred, by
the way, is impervious to any danger; for, when
his now historic chestnuts run away, he curls him-
self up in “that hat,” falls safely on the road-
metal, and everybody else in the buggy is killed.
We have it on reliable authority there is only one
weapon extant which could kill Alfred. That
is a bad debt. It is stated that once an infuriated
subscriber to the Down and Gumtree Jernel
hit Alfred on the skull with a bludgeon. The
bludgeon rebounded, and two days afterwards
Alfred attended that subscriber's funeral, with a
smile on him that nearly poked the roof off the
mourning coach ...And think of this—we quote
the Shoalhaven Watson “During the past
three days, Miss Lucy Ashton’s [and be hanged to
her] Dramatic Company have been performing in
Nowra. On Wednesday last (opening night), * Lady
Aaudley's (tie) Secret ’ was placed before a small
but appreciative audience." It seems that Lucy
is supported by that truly great and gorgeous
artist, Harry Flynn, who can paint a house or
play Koderigo with anybody. Lucy isto perform
“ East Lynne ” next. We have, therefore, to sia-
cerely congratulate the Nowraites on their good
fortune. Miss Nelly Montague (that sweet young
thing!) is also with the “ push.” We are not going
to Nowra. “For this relief, many thanks.”. ..
Gheeversand Kennedy, the old Australian favour-
ites. were at latest doing capital business in London,
at the Cambridge music hall aud at Gath's The
majority of the English provincial papers are
evidently edited by babes and sucklings. Here is
a cutting from a notice printed in all seriousness
by the Chester Chronicle :-“ Mr. Martin’s re-
presentation of the Italian count must have been
studied from the life. From the crown of his
head to the sole of his feet he was a foreigner.
Never was seen better acting with the limbs ; in
fact, his legs were entirely Italian I ” Now if any-
body wants to know where to get an English actor
with Italian legs they will know where to apply.
“Any manager.” says an English paper, “is at
liberty to work upon the following suggestion for
the coming season ‘ Tropical theatre. The warm-
est playhouse in the world. The warmest play.
The warmest company. As a guarantee of the
truth of the last statement, the management re-
spectfully calls attention to the fact that every
individual member of the company has been
through the Divorce Court at least once. Parti-
culars on application. The jeune premier is even
now arranging to carry off the wile of a bishop.”
At Madrid, a stage manager told Madame Val-
lon, who at the final rehearsal of “Bylvia” hid
made a false step, that sin danced like a chicken.
She complained to her husband, who plunged a
dagger into the manager's heart....On Tuesday
night next (the 16tb), there’s to be an amateur per-
formance in the Pitt-street School of Arts, in aid
of the “ Boys’ Club.” We give it this spaoe partly
because we may get some “ wholesome fun " out
of it, and partly (chiefly) beoause the object is a
worthy one. “ Meg’s Diversion ”is the piece to be
slaugh—played, and a number of rising artists
are prepared to go through with it.
A party by the name of Johnson —a mere
boy—was ciught in the act of stealing a key from
a chest of drawers in a Sandhurst (Vic.) auction
room. The shopman had, it appears, missed
several keys during the previous day or two, and
so was on the qui vive , with the result stated.
Young Johnson was set at liberty on stating where
ho had disposed of the keys previously stolen; but
we should think—if only for the sake of the fitness
of things—that a boy stealing, a key ought to
locked up! v -
Fuels,’85. Illustrated. An OUo ot Cities 1


Personal
Items
Memo for David Buchanan : The London
Echo says that Carlyle’s “portraits” of political
personages “are not without value as caricatures,
and, despite their savagery, they are amusing.”
Sir Moses Monteflore was born at Leghorn
on 24th October, 1784. The following is the entry
in the local register at Leghorn, announcing his
birth: “On the 9th Heshvan, 5545 (Oct. 24, 1784), to
Joseph, son of Moses Haim, and Rachael Monte-
flore, there was born a son, who was named Moses
Haim.”
The Mahdi, before adopting his present
profession of a prophet, was an ordinary dealer in
wild beasts. This change in his reverence must
have been occasioned by a visit from some N.S.W.
politician who fully explained to him the increased
voting-power obtainable by any election-agent on
the religious ticket.
Roar Admiral George Tryon will leave
England on the 4th December, to take over the
< ommand of the Australian Squadron, which will
henceforth be a Rear Admiral’s command.
Amongst Rear Admiral Tryon’s staff will be Com-
mander W. des Voeux Hamilton, who served with
the Naval Brigade in the Egyptian war of 1882, and
Captain Atwell Peregrine Lake, who has seen much
active service in China, and who will command the
Nelson.
During the course of his nomination-day
speech,;Alderman Withers proudly placed his hand
on his heart and exclaimed: “Yes, gentlemen,
when I was first elected, the sewerage of the upper
parts of Surry Hills was all open, and the filth ran
in a most offensive manner through the lower
parts, and thence by a culvert to Darling Harbour;
but I plunged into the matter extensively, and
what was the result?” [A voice: “A big run on
eau-de-Cologne and iron-hoop scrapers.”]
The Duke of Wellington told the author of
the new book, “ Croker’s Diary and Correspon-
dence,” that, in the Peninsular, the French and
English advance always gave notice to each other
when they were in danger. On one occasion, when
the French army was advancing suddenly and in
force, the French posts suddenly orled out to ours:
“Clear out! Clear out!! We are going to attack
you!” “ I always encouraged this,” remarked the
Duke; “the killing the poor fellow of a vidette or
carrying off a post could not influence a battle,
and I always when I was going to attack sent to
tell them to get out of the way.”
The Grand Duke of Hesse will, after all,
probably succeed in getting quite clear of his
morganatic wife. The German courts, which
must be corrupt right down to the ground, have
by virtually granting a decree, established the
principle that any mean scoundrel who happens
to have been born a “ Duke ” may decoy a woman
to his harem, go through a bogus marriage with
her, keep her for three or four days-or only for
one day. if he so pleases—and then turn her adrift.
Lord Dundreary, when he said to the pretty girl,
“ Marry me for ten days, my dear, and, if you
don’t like it go back to your ma,” evidently had
taken the exact measure of the Grand Duke
order.
The fact that carlyle described Mr. Glad-
stone as a “ miserable phantasm ” is just now being
made much of by the English Conservatives and
their admirers. The Torios, however, are not so
ready to quote the dyspeptic sage’s opinion on the
House of Lords? Here it is: "OBull. were I in
your place, 1 would try to get other Peers, or else
abolish the concern - whici latter, indeed, by your
acquiescence in 3iich nominations, and by rnauy
other symptons, I judge to be unconsciously your
fixed intention.” Nor are they eager to recall the
circumstance that during Dizzy’s term of office
Carlyle asked “How long John Bull would con-
tinue to allow that miserable Jew to dance on his
belly ?”
The Queen has endeavoured to induce
Kaiser Wilhelm to abate his wrath against the
Grand Duke of Hesse, but without much success,
as his Majesty has expressed the utmost contempt
for the ruler of Hesse-Darmstadt, and is as indig-
nant as ever with him; and his feelings are shared
by the Crown Prince and Crown Princess. A
“skit” on the Grand Duke’s marriage with
Madame de Kalomine, entitled “A Midsummer
Night’s Madness,” has been published at Frank-
fort, and is exciting universal attention in Ger-
many. The satire is so pungent that it is reported
that the Grand Duke intends to prosecute the
publishers. On dit that Madame Kalomine is
enciente.
"When the late Mr. A. M. Sullivan, M.P.,
visited ’Frisco, an incident occurred which he used
to relate with great glee. His countrymen had
prepared him a cordial reception, and an Irish
band marched up to the hotel where ho was stop-
ping, and played “See, the conquering hero.”
There were shouts of “Sullivan, Sullivan!'’ The
cry attracted a rabble of “ hoodlums,” as the
rough element is called there. Alter a time the
eloquent Home Rule member appeared at the
window and spoke a few sentences. “ Shape your-
self, John; we'd rather have that than chin-music,”
yelled one. “He ain’t so thundering big as I
thought,” said another; “I wouldn’t mind spar-
ring him a round myself” The roughs had taken
him for another celebrity of the ilk, J. L. Sulli-
the bruiser!
George R. Sims (“Dagonet”) is 3G years
old. He is a “ cockney,” and for some years was
clerk in a mercantile house in the city. In a
literary career of lets than ten years, he has risen
to the front rank as a faoile and flashing writer.
His chief charms are a kindly spirit, a bright wit,
and a bitter scorn of tyranny and injustice. His
pen is a power in England; he has touched abuses
with it, and they have been reformed; he has
scorched forms of hypocrisy till they withered,
and his is the proud distinction of having most
successfully drawn the sympathy of the whole
world to the gnawing misery in which the abject
Soor live in London, the mighty modern Babylon.
[e is the champion of the poor, his Dagonot
Ballads are noble in their Christly sympathy with
human suffering; he has done more to create in-
terest and pity, and help for the “millions who
darken in labour and pain,” than any writer since
Dickens died. More has been done for Loudon
outcasts these ten years by “ Dagonet’s” pen than
by the whole of the Royal Family in half a century.
We trust this isn’t treason. Truth often is.
The late Mr. A. M. Sullivan, M.P.. had
been known to his own countrymen since his early
youth as a popular speaker aud an ardent Nation-
alist, and he was on the whole the most eloquent
debater on the Nationalist side that Ireland sent
to the House of Commons since the days of
O’Connell and Sheil. Ho was one of the Irish
members sent into Parliament to act under the
leadership of Mr. Butt. His first speech in the
Commons won for him a reputation which he never
forfeited. There was much in his style, his manner,
his language, his opinions, with which an English
audience was not likely to have bei n sympathetic.
His eloquence was fervid in its nature; his move-
ments were abrupt; he had a great deal of gesture,
and much of it not graceful or effective; he had a
strong Irish accent, and what were then thought
very strong Irish opinions. He was Mr. Plimsoll’s
most active and eloquent coadjutor in the struggle
to obtain legislative protection for the lives of our
seamen. He was a uevoted Roman Catholic, but
many of his closest friendships were with Pro-
testants, and he was a resolute supporter of full
freedom of conscience. He always believed in the
virtue of an appeal to the public opinion of Eng-
land, and he never taught or countenanced the
doctrine of international and internecine hate.
Now, we wonder who was the distinguished
hero of this little tale, which is whispered across
f rom Albion’s sea-girt shore ? During the course
of their grand triumphal tour, the Australian
cricketing team were invited to spend a day at the
country seat of a noble lady, and anyone who is
familiar with the ways of Our Boys can readily
imagine the alacrity with which they accepted the
generous invitation. Quite a crowd of titled
visitors were invited to see the kangaroos feed,
and during the course of the evening the fair
hostess supplied the team with the choicest re-
freshments, always taking care to give to one of
the Australians double the quantity she gave to
the others. Flattered by this marked attention,
the favoured joker began to put on frills, and,
taking advantage of a slight lull in the chat, ho
ostentatiously called out, “ Thank you much, me
lady—just a taste moah of y’r strawberries an’
hice; but how is it you always give me .twice as
much as you do to any of my companions here?”
“ Oh, I don’t know, Mr. ,” replied the lady, in-
nocently; “only, as your mouth happens to be
double as large as the other gentlemen’s, I naturally
thought you could eat double as much as they
could.” Then a grief too great for tears settled
down on that rash young man, and, burying his
face in a glace Napolitaine. he exclaimed, “ Tell
’em at home that 1 died with my back to the field
and my feet to the foe, an’ the gate-money in my
breeches’ pockets.”
One good point about little Bailey—not
little Bailey of Todgers, but he of the Gundagai
Elworthy-Plugger— is that you can’t put him
wrong, no matter where you locate him, for he is
equally at home on the top of Mount Blanc or in
front of the hottest stove in Hades. Throw him
how you please and he’ll fall on his feet, and he’d
fatten visibly before your very eyes even if you
strapped him down on top of a saw-buck. Not
long ago he was in Sydney for the purpose of
swapping billets with Dr. Barry, or getting a feed
of fresh fish—we forget which; but, anyway, he
was seduced into visiting a church bazaar, and
having been duly robbed and maltreated in the
customary style, he suddenly espied a piano in one
corner ot the room, and hastily grabbing a lady
stall-holder by the head, he roared. “ What d’ye
generally do with that trunk up there ?" “ Play on
it, when we can get anyone to sing,” replied the
fair bandit. “ Sing ?is it sing?” exclaimed Bailey;
"now, when you talk about singing, you’ve got
to hear me once aud then die.” An accompanist
was speedily fouud, and the little ’un ripped out
“ Let me like a soldier fall ” in a style that caused
his hearers to think far more charitably of the
Nelson’s fog-horn than they ever did before.
“The top C, as ho says himself, “positively elec-
trified the astonished hearers for several miles
around.” And the bazaar holders registered an
oath that if he ever came in again, they’d make
him drunk and then tie him down across the tram
line.
ELOPEMENTS CAN BE PREVENTED.
NOW THAT AN EXAMPLE OF ELOPEMENT WITH THE COACHMAN HAS BEEN SET,
PARENTS WILL LEARN WITH SATISFACTION THAT EFFECTUAL MEANS OF PREVEN-
TION EXIST. EMPLOY ONLY MARRIED COACHMEN, AND MAKE THEIR WIVES RIDE
ON THE BOX WITH THEM.
Our olrl friend fat Arthur, the Tiehborne
Claimant, is, we are sorry to see, dealt with very
hardly by the London papers. One daily calls him
an “irrepressible liar,” and characterises the as-
sertion made in the “ manifesto ” issued bv him on
leaving prison, that “he heard a Crown official say
in court that unless the jury brought in a verdict
against him they would not be paid,” as “the
most monstrous mendacity of the century.” The
Daily News unfeelingly ' alludes to him as
“Thomas Castro alias Arthur Orton, better known
as ‘the Claimant,’ ” and reminds him that as he is
only out on ticket-of-leave—three years and four
months of his sentence of 14 years having yet to
expire—he had better behave himself, and not vir-
tually repeat the offenoe for which he was pun-
ished by setting up a claim founded on perjury.
If Castro is wise,” remarks the D.N., “he will
keep quiet.” Arthur’s pretensions are, in fact,
almost universally ridiculed by the English press;
the Daily Chronicle, which has an extensive
circulation among that extremely democratic
class of whom Arthur’s supporters for the most
part consist, being the only well-known paper
whioh refrains from characterising him as an
impostor. The Chronicle, too, is the only Lon-
don paper which has opened its columns to the
time-worn jeremiads of old gentlemen “ who know
old ladies who assure them positively that they
played with Sir Roger Tiehborne when he was a
boy, and who say they are ready to swear in
Court that the Claimant and the real Sir Roger are
one and the same person.”
Fronde thus sums up the character of Car-
lyle:—“ Taking Carlyle all in all, there never was a
man—l, at least, never knew of one—whose con-
duct in life would better bear the fiercest light
which can be thrown upon it. In the grave
matters of the law he walked for eighty-five years
unblemished by a single moral spot. There are no
‘ sins of youth ’ to be apologised for. In no instance
did he ever deviate even for a moment from the
strictest lines of integrity. He had his own way to
make in life, and when he had chosen his profes-
sion, he had to depend on popularity for the bread
which he was to eat. But, although more than
once he was in sight of starvation, he would never
do lees than his very best. He never wrote an idle
word, he never wrote or spoke any single sentence
which he did not with his own heart believe to be
true. Conscious though he was that he had talents
above those of common men, he sought neiuher
rank nor fortune for himself. When he became
famous, and moved as an equal among the great
of the land, be was content to earn the wages of
an artisan, and kept to the simple habits in which
he had been bred in his father’s house. He might
have had a pension had he stooped to ask for it,
but'he chose to maintain himself by his own in-
dustry, and when a pension was offered him it was
declined. He despised luxury; he was thrifty and
even severe in the economy of his own household;
but in the times of his greatest poverty he bad
always something to spare for those who were
dear to him. When money came at last, and it
came only when he was old and infirm, he adaed
nothing to his own comforts, but was lavishly
generous with It to others.” From all of whioh
people will be able to see how exactly the sage of
Chelsea is reproduced in his eminent and consis-
tent disciple, Mr. David Buchanan, M.L.A.
This is positively the extremely very latest
tale told of the persecuted preacher, Peter
and it comes all the way from the Cloncurry. It
appears that Peter opened fire on the devil in a cer-
tain pub. up there one Sunday morning during the
dry season, and taking for his text the words “Ven-
g ance is mine, saith the Lord,” fired off a tirade
against the popular pastimes of eye-gouging, ear-
chawing, and rough-and-tumble “ mills,” in a style
that seriously offended the delicate feelings of his
congregation. One of the faithful, in fact—a party
by the name of Macintyre Mick—openly differed
from Peter during the service, and plainly declared
that “if the Lord was a pusson who would shut
down on the only innercent amusement a feller
kin find on the back-block, he for one didn’t want
for to hear no more about Him.” The preacher
finished his say, however, and ably pointed out
that there was nothing so mean and paltry as
revenge, and finally he wound up with the old
advice to flabbergaster the man who smacks you
on the right jowl by immediately turning round
the left and requesting him to Larry-Foley that
side also. That night a few of the faithful put an
ingenious mixture of cow-itch, pepper, and bread-
ci umbs in Peter’s bed, and the way the apostle
bucked, and squirmed, and ripped, and cussed in
private for the rest of the night was enough to
scare the soul out of a baked “gohanna.” Out-
side his room,.however, Peter “ spoke never a word
nor wept,” for he had that both inside and outside
of him which passeth show; but he quite patiently
waited his opportunity, dosed all the water-bags
with jalap, and smiled a heavenly smile as his noc-
tural tormenters subsequently left the dinner-table
one by one with a hurried request not to keep any
grub waiting for them, as they had to chop some
wood. Revenge was Peter's that trip, and you
better believe the old ’un did enjoy it.
Mrs. Trevelyn is the wife of a colonel in
the army, and separated from her husband who
undertook to pay her a yearly allowance, Lord
Marcus Beresford being chosen to act as trustee.
Mrs. Trevelyn is for many years an inmate of a
workhouse, and alleges that her husband failed to
pay her allowance, and that from Lord Marcus she
could get no satisfaction whatevever. London
Vanity Fair published a letter of inquiry re-
specting the case, and thereupon Lord Marcus
takes dire umbrage, and lies in wait ouiside
Vanity Fair office to bide the advent of the
editor-proprietor, Mr. Gibson Bowles, who in due
course arrives in his cab, and is at once “boarded ”
by the irate lord, who, with one foot on the step of
the cab, asks his name. The name given, the noble
lord demands the authorship of the letter. Reply,
naturally, and according to all editorial etiquette,
refused; but noble lord is invited to step into the
office and discuss grievances quietly. Noble
lord does nothing of the sort ; but, shov-
ing the editor-droprietor aside, who had his
“hands down” at the moment, goes for him.
Mr. Bowles promptly squares up and “ gives as
good as he gets,” returns the blow, and a sharp
scuffle ensues, the wind-up being the downfall of
the noble lord under the hoarding opposite the
office. Noble lord picks himself and his outraged
dignity up, and asks for his hat and stick. Both
are courteously returned by the office-boy. Utter-
ing curses both loud and deep, the noble lord
enters the nearest cab, and drives off, and Mr.
Bowles, smoothing his ruffled plumes, goes into
his office. The fun of it all now comes in. The hat
given to Lord Marcus Beresford is Mr. Bowles’s,
and the hat the editor-proprietor picks up, and
sticks to, is my Lord Marcus’s. Moreover, the cab
iD which the irate nobleman drives off is the very
identical vehicle that, still unpaid, was waiting for
Mr. Bowles outside the office, and it is to be pre-
sumed that Lord Marcus paid his foe’s fare to the
ambush. Vanity’s only wounds are scratched
knuckles, and, as far as the testimony of an eye-
witness goes, the combatants separated ccquo
marte. The law has the matter in hand.
Dr. Moran is evidently “warm goods,”
and a man who is determined to stick to the strict
letter of the law, whatever he may do concerning
the spirit. That he is a great disciplinarian was
well known long before he “arrove,” but that he
would shut down so soon, and so tightly, too, on
his clargy was certainly neverdreamt of. Amongst
other undesirable little matters raked up by His
Grace of late was the St. Mary’s Sustenance Fund
a tax which is levied on the per-centage taken by
every church in the diocese, and which goes to
support the princely income of the Archbishop.
When Dr. Vaughan died, the clergy, finding there
was no Archbishop to support, very naturally kept
this tax-money for their own particular benefit,
and clerical banking accounts began to swell up in
the most satisfactory manner possible. Imagine
the surprise and disgust of the apostles, therefore,
if you can, when they received a circular a few
days ago ordering them to ante-up the whole of
this back money without delay, or else—
nation per omnia scecula sceculorum would cer-
tainly fall upon them. Some, we hear, flatly
decline to part, and others refuse for the best
of all reasons, viz.: they haven’t got it. While
His Grace hss his hand in over this, he might call
for a certified statement showing the exact state
of the banking accounts of the followers of the
meekland lowly Nazarene who had not whereon to
lay His head. We venture to say that, if this were
done and the result published, there would be a
rush of candidates for the priesthood from all
denominations that would set the Church of Rome
on a firmer basis than it has ever been since the
simple days of ojd Bt. Peter. The next rumour
touching the doughty Moran’s deeds is that, on it’s
being brought under his notice that a certain
clergyman had allowed his name to be put upon
the committee of that “gigantic nursery of
patriotism,’’ as the Celtic Club is sometimes face-
titiously called, the stern disciplinarian and con-
sistent teetotal Archbishop immediately ordered
the clerical Celt to remove his “ moniker ” and sin
no more in that line for the future. This, we
believe, is causing “grate dissinshin” amongst
the Celts, and His Grace has got himself quite dis-
liked in consequence. Taking one consideration
with another, the clergy’s lot is not a happy one.
and we are right thankful to-day to find we are
wielding the pastepot and shears instead of the
bißhop’s crook and the thurifer.
The Claimant’s prison career, as now fully
known, affords food for considerable reflection.
During the ten and a-half years that he has been
in gaol, and under observation every moment,
Arthur Orton, the Wapping butcher, has managed
to comport himself in all respects as Sir Roger
Tichborne, wrongfully incarcerated, might have
been expeoted to behave. The effort seems super-
human. After sentence, he remained one week at
Pentonville, and then on his removal to Miilbank
he commenced the real terrors of his I6t, as for
nine months he endured solitary confinement. At
Miilbank he was employed in picking oakum, an
occupation which afforded him no scope for expert-
ness or cleverness, but in which he was always
diligent. In fact, the Claimant was never a lazy
convict; on the contrary, his fellow-prisoners often
expressed their disapprobation at his doing so much
work. But of late years, due chiefly to the fact
that he had expressed a decided preference for
being left alone, he has experienced none of this
annoyance. At the end of his probation he'was
removed to Dartmoor, where he became a tailor,
but, although he had some years’ practice at the
trade and was always imbued with a desire to do
his best, he never proved a very efficient workman.
So exemplary was his conduct in prison that he
was never mentioned in the reports—although, in
his remonstranoes with his fellow-prisoners on the
subject of his excessive industry, he on one occasion
nearly infringed the regulations. His request to be
sent on the public works that he mightenjoy purer
air was readily acceded to, and he was for a time
employed in the stacking ground in Portsmouth
Dockyard. He soon discovered that he was here
subject to be gazed upon by workmen and others
in the dockyard, and to the least semblance of this
practise he always showed the most deep-rooted
antipathy. His next move was to the carpenter's
shop, which is much more secluded. It was not
anticipated that he would prove a better carpenter
than tailor, but he has turned out a really skillful
workman, and would have no difficulty in earning
his living at this handicraft. Not only did he prove
industrious, but he took a real interest in his work,
and would on entering the shop throw off his cap
and frock, roll up his shirt sleeves, and go about
his work with real earnestness. He was never the
devoutest of Catholics. He always abstained from
mass or going to confession, while the church ser-
vices, wfiloh are compulsory, he always attended
in a perfunctory fashion. The late Dr. Kenealy
paid the Claimant only one visit—at the time when
the Court of Error was being prosecuted, and he
then distinctly warned his old client not to be de-
ceived by what hfs other friends told him, and to
make up his mind that the case would fail. The
Claimant, nevertheless, buoyed himself up with
hopes of success. He was at the same time allowed
to grow his hair and whiskers, and was actually
measured for clothing to be worn by him on the
day of his expected liberation. When experience
proved the soundness of the advocate’s advice, the
Claimant was ill-prepared for the news. He ra-
pidly turned grey, and has been ageing ever since.
On one occasion the Claimant had a visit from
Captain Barry, who, in a somewhat curious
fashion, recognised the prisoner as the Sir Roger
Tichborne whom he knew at Wagga Wagga. The
Claimant was three times visit< d by his eldest son,
named Roger, and once by both sons together, and
it is said that Roger’s physiognomy bears an exact
resemblance to the daguerreotype of Sir Roger
Tichborne, which will be remembered as one of
the exhibits in the case. His consent to be inter-
viewed by his sons was the result of a prolonged
Ere«sure on the part of his friends, as the Claimant
ad a great objection to.any of his chil iren seeing
him in the convict garb. He on all occasions
evinced a profound taciturnity, and did everything
in his power to foster the unwillingness of his
friends to talk to him. He would never call in the
doctor if he could help it, and he was never known
to attempt a joke during hie imprisonment. Most
of his leisure ho spent in reading such books as
Roman Catholic prisoners are allowed to peruse,
and he confined himself chiefly to works of travel
or voyages. He would make no attempt to im-
prove his education, while the letters from him
that have appeared in the Press from time to time
often took him weeks to prepare, and were never
dispatched until he had made copious references
to the prison library. His sDht has of late years
become considerably impaired, and he lately never
attempted to read or write without wearing
spectacles.
Amare et sapcre vlx cleo concedltur— to be
in love, and at the same time act wisely, is hardly
granted to a god—was a neat little saying which
was very much believed in by the ancients, and
certainly, judging by the extremely asinine capers
of some of their deities when under the spell of
the sweet passion, the old ’uns had just grounds
for their pithy observation. Why we think of this
to-day, is simply because we have been wading
through a few tubfulls of 298 love-letters written
by the late Lord Bulwtr Lytton to Miss Rosina
Wheeler—the lady who had the subsequent mis-
fortune to be his wife. These letters pretty fully
exhaust the whole vocabulary of amatory decla-
mation, but, as Miss Louisa Devey (their pub-
lisher, and Lady Lytton’s executrix) points out,
their want of reticence and dignity too clearly
betray a sensual abandonment to what might be
called the “love of a Bashaw.” “Puppy” was
the pet name of the author of “ Pelham,” and
“ Poodle ” of his lady love in their sappy days, and,
just to show how the arrows of the mischievous
littie god can send a talented man clean off his
kadoova at times, here’s a copy of one of Bulwer s
early letters written over the sublime signature of
“Oo own Puppo”: “My adored Poodie,— Many,
many thanks for oo darling letter. Me is so happy,
me is wagging my tail, and putting my ears down,
me is to meet oo to-morrow. O, day of daysi
I cannot tell you now very, very, happy
you have made me! No, my own love, don t
come before twelve; but really I shall meet
you! Oh, darling of darlings! I cannot write
to you to-night, nor at any length now. The best
plan about the carriage will be for you to get in it
first, and it can then pick me up in another s>t., so
that you will enter it alone. When you are once
in, put down ye blinds. O zoo love of loves, me is
ready to leap out of my skin for joy! Adieu.
Twenty million kisses.” “Me is wagging my tan,
and leaping out of my skin ” at the thought oi
being boxed up in a carriage, with the bunas
pulled down, with " zoo darling of darlings ana
love of loves!” By heavens, this is too much, ana
we must dash out and hug our mother-in-law, or
we’ll never be able to turn to the next item. |a
period of five minutes is supposed to elapse bere.J
And now, having squoze the old girl, and RPR 11 ®'!
raw steak to our eyes, and got the gable end oi
our cerebellum stitched up with silver wire, we
make another frantic dive into the last .R:
Rienzi’s bundle, and fish up another gem, wnicn
says: “And so they dressed my poodle wniuj
and black? O zoo darling! how like a Poo If:
And had oo oo’s bootiful ears curled nicely, an
did oo not look too pretty, and did not all tn
puppy dogs rfln after oo and tell oo wbata darung
oowas! Ah! me sends oo nine million kisses uj
be distributed as follows—soo,ooo for oo bootitu
mouth. 250,000 to oo right eye, 250,000 to oo leiteye,
1,000,000 to oo dear neck, and the rest to be e< l uBl i'
divided between oo arms and hands.” St ranf f® it ,,
say, no allowance was left to oos favouri
bunion, or the wart on the starboard side or oo
beautiful nose, but probably the gentle Ldwa
made up for this when he got fairly 8et V r
to the hugging business, for a little tart
along Master Pelham says: “Shall we »“
kiss prettily to-morrow, darling? [devil non
them.] Pray write, for my soul hung
and thirsts after your writeousncss
million (.marks of kisses] and fifteen L Dlt J ’


POPULAR MINSTREL MADE HAPPY;
OR, FROM JEST TO EARNEST.
“ For seven years,” writes Mr. Horace Bent, of
the Federal Minstrels, “ I have suffered from an
acute neuralgic affection of the right knee and
rheumatic gout, which became so severe during
our season at the ‘ Gaiety ’ in September, ’B3, that I
was obliged to relinguish the active duties of my
profession and keep my room for a couple of days.
I had tried several strong liniments at various
times, some of which gave me partial relief. In
the course of. my lecture and sketches I had fre-
quently mentioned, jocularly, St. Jacobs Oil; but
it never occurred to me to apply it to my own ail-
ments until a friend who happened to be in my
room whilst I was complaining of intense pain re-
minded me of its claims, and sent out for a bottle
right away. I u?ed a little of it immediately, and
found iDStant re ief, repeating the application
again later on in the evening. From that, night I
have never felt either the neuralgic affection ot
the knee or the rheumatic gout return, ana i
would have sent you tnis acknowledgment earlier
hut I thought it best to thoroughly establish the
Permanence of the effect; and have to subscribe
myself a firm believer in the virtues of St. Jacobs
Sold by all chemists and druggists in N.S.W. •
Price 3s. 6d. per bottle.
Puck Almanac, ’B5, 6d. Ready 10th December!
Keep the kidneys healthy and unob-
structed with Hop Bitters, and you need not rear
sickness. Read,
Persons who suffer from sleeplessness. If
in lieu of opiates those who suffer from insomnia
ajudicioususeof Wolfe's schnapps,
tney would soon fall into the way of this noctur-
nal balm.
Puck, 'B5. Comic cartoons in colours I
Think axd Act.— After many trials,
Messrs. Dalm and Oertel succeeded in preparing a
jnost delicious Lemonade from Australian lemons,
fney discarded imported, unwholesome Oil of
tfunons. Give it a trial. AJrated-water works, 40.1
-rttt-Btreet.*
Punk,'Bs. By post, 7d. M‘Kinky, Hunter-st.
1000,090,000,000,000,000 [marks of kisses], my dearest
Rose. My own dear kind darliDg love and poodle.
Adieu, my own Rose, my life ot life, very Poodle
of very Poodles, adieu I Adieu, oo own Idolatrous
Puppy. Ever my dearest dearest dearest foodest
kindest bootifulest darlingest angelest Poodle, oo
own Puppy, asparagus Acorn Pup Bobadil of
Boots K .” On the 29th August, 1827, Puppy
and Poodle were married in London, but, strange
to 3ay, no record was made of the loves, and
kisses, and bites, &c , which the young spoons
lavished upon each other over the glad occasion.
Five years after this there was more of the biting
business carried on, but in a somewhat different
fashion. The “puppy ” had grown to be a mastiff
dog, aDd from a record left by Lady Lytton we
read:—“Upon his asking me with whom I was
going to the christening of Mr. Fonblanque’s child
that night, and I replying * with Lady Stepney,’ he
then repeated as fast as he could, a dozen times
running, ‘ My mother calls her that ugly old
woman.’ He then called out, ‘Do you hear me,
madam?’ Of course I hear you.’ ‘Then why
the in don’t you answer me ?’ ‘ I did not
think it required an answer.’ ‘ D your soul,
madam I ’ he exclaimed, seizing a carving-knife
(for we were at dinner, and he had told the servants
to leave the room till he rang), and, rushing at
me, cried, ‘ I’ll have you to know that whenever I
do you the honour of addressing you it requires
an answer!’ I said, ‘For God’s sake, take care
what you are about, Edward!’ He then dropped
the knife, and, springing on me, made his great
teeth meet in my cheek, and the blood spurted
over me. The agony was so great that my screams
brought the servants back, and promptly Cresson,
the cook, seized him by the collar; but he broke
from him, and, seizing one of the footmen’s hats
in the hall, rushed down Piccadilly.” In 1836, a
formal deed of separation was signed, Mr. Bulwer
flatly declaring he would never, under any con-
sideration, live with his wife again. Eheu! ’Twas
ever thus. We are all blind puppies before mar-
riage; but once the deed is done, our eyes are
opened wide, and the snarling days begin.
* * *
The editor of the ’Frisco Wasp is very
fond of Hector Stuart. He says:—“A remarkable
instance of self-control was observed the other
day: Mr. Hector A. Stuart, the poet, was driving
a jackass.” ...The Rockhampton papers report a
waterspout in the Fitzroy. Perhaps they only
mean that Billy Brooks has been up from Bris-
bane on a teetotal lecturing visit.
* * *
The Mudir of Dongola has, it appears, a
second-in-command. He doesn’t call him, as might
be expected. “My Assistant-Liar.” He calls him
“the Bub-Mudir.”....ln Lord Malmesbury’s me-
moirs it is stated that, in his earlier life, Mr. Glad-
stone was a tolerable musician, and especially
fond of “nigger” minstrelsy Lord Randolph
Churchill is called the harlequin of the Conserva-
tive party. Sir Stafford Northcote is the Pantaloon
whom Harlequin thwacks Salmon Wilson is to
be a candidate for Slough. Should he get in, his
constituency will be the Slough of Despond....
Latest accounts state that the Duke of Brunswick
left a fortune of a hundred million thalers, or
about fifteen millions sterling, much of which is
invested in the Banks of England and Holland
When W. S. Gilbert acknowledged the toast of
“The Drama,” at the Authors’ Society banquet,
he remarked that he would be brief, lest, not hav-
ing prepared a speech, he might inadvertently ex-
press his real feelings on the subject.... Sir Edward
Malet is believed to have got his appointment as
British ambassador at Berlin through the influence
of the Duke of Bedford, to whose daughter, Lady
Ermyntrude Russell, he is engaged to be married.
The bride gets a dowry of £l6O,OOO—A member
of the Cavendish family has opened a tea-shop at
Eastbourne....A South German newspaper calls
attention to the fact that Jules Ferry is married to
a great-granddaughter of Goethe’s Lotte... Lord
Marcus Beresford, who went to thrash the editor
of Vanity Fair, but got “ as good as he gave,” is
the same nobleman who, some years ago, attained
celebrity by kicking a money-lender downstairs.
We read that Mr. Frewen, the Wyoming
Bqaatterwho wants to introduce American store
cattle to England, is an Englishman, a nepnew of
Lord Dufferin, and with his brother Herbert he
controls about 245,000 head of cattle belonging to
English capitalists. “They manage the Duke of
Manchester 8 herd of 60,000 head.” Wh-a-a-t!....
The Duchess of Edinburgh is now 31, and has five
children.
The latest idea in trophies for manly
sports comes from Ballarat. The members of the
local Are brigades have, tor some months past,
been undergoing a vigorous and arduous training
so as to compete successfully in a tug-of-war con-
test, for which a varied assortment of valuable
prizes were offered. And when the City Brigade,
after a terrific struggle, were proclaimed the
victors and went to claim the trophy, they were
presented with an assortment of German sausages,
flat-irons, Holloway’s pills, Epsom salts, bars of
soap, and weather-beaten vegetables, so that the
noble fire-fighters were under the impression that
they had won the stock-in-trade of a small country
store. The firemen were just a hit surprised at
their success in pulling off such a big pool, but
astonishment gave way to disgust and profanity
when the value of the goods was appraised. How-
ever, the new system of rewarding our athletes is
not without its advantages. See what an incen-
tive would be given to the Rum scribes and the
Nooze reporters to go in for the cultivation of
muscle, were the Ballarat system introduced here.
With the off chance of securing a prize consisting
of a string of sausages, a 4lb. loaf, and a flowing
pint of Toohey’s XXX, a team of itemisers from
King and Market streets would take a couple or
healthy locomotives to pull them over the line.
Poltical
Points
The late Mr. A. M. SulUvan died of disease
brought on by overwork. This being so, the
longevity of The O’Sullivan is assured,
Mr. 0. Norman is to be a can didate for the
Namoi at the general election next year. He is a
surprisingly energetic man in his business (stock
and station agent), considering bis very great
weight. But he carries his flesh like a man, and is
as active as a kitten.
The Kapunda Herald’s Adelaide corre-
spondent says “ the main duty of a second branch
of the legislature is to check hasty legislation.”
How would it read if it were only true for once,
that “the main duty of a second branch of the
legislature is to hasten checked legislation ? ”
The Republican form of Government is
doomed. The Central Australian (published
at Bouike) has unhesitatingly condemned it. But
as no one at Bourke cares what the Central says;
and, as it is only used as a soporific by subscribers
outside Bourke, there may bo a chance for Repub-
licanism yet.
When Mr. Abbott arrived in Bourke Ned
Warmoll gave the usual “ free beer,” and two of
the citizens who were discussing it had the follow-
ing conversation:—First Citizen: ‘ What, d’ye
think of the Minister for Mines?” Second Citizen:
“ What splendid grass and water there must be
where he comes froml”
The Chief Secretary of South Australia
has his own notions as to the stuff irom which
statesmen are made. Speaking in praise of his
colleagues, he said “ They are all. strong, obstinate
mbn.” Now, if obstinacy be a, recommendation
for office, we have a few legislators who are as
“fit as a fiddle.” There is Mr. Ellis, and —but
why go on ?
The Executive are spending a good deal of
time over the changes in the Lands Department,
consequent on the new Act. If all the officials
gave them as little trouble as did one gentleman,
the way of their work would have been smoother.
He wrote to say that his creditors had very strong
objections to his removal from Sydney. They pre-
ferred having him where they could keep their
eyes on him.
It is an open secret that the Rev. John
Osborne intends to have a shy at Parliament next
general election. His politics will be all right, be-
cause he has none in particular just now, and will
fix ’em up, when the occasion arrives, to suit it.
But one of his future supporters, being anxious
about his religion, said, “ What do you believe
in?” And the answer was, “ I believe in one—
John Osborne.”
It does not take much in New South Wales
to get up a “celebration demonstration.” The
opening of a new hen-fann will produce the neces-
sary banquet, Ministers ot' the Crown, M.P.’s,
Mayor and aldermen, and the rest of them. But
South Australia, even in this; line, can give us
points. They demonstrated and celebrated, in the
proper way, the opening of a bridge at Gawler,
the other day. And the total, cost of that bridge
was £BO 18s.
Mr. Angus Mackay finds a difficulty in
getting members to hear hira in the Victorian
Parliament. This arises from the fact that mem-
bers do not care to hear him. Last week, as a
right, he claimed the undivided attention of the
Premier (Mr. Service) to what he had to say. So
soon as he began to talk, Mr. Service got up and
went out. It is his voice that does it, as much as
anything. It sounds as if it came through a nut-
meg grater and a hearth-rug.
The Walgett News makes a powerful
attack upon the Government. It seems some peo-
ple were buried about Walgett generally in 1860,
before there was a township ot a cemetery there.
Now some Chinese gardeners have utilised the
graves by growing cabbagee and lettucee over
them. The News demands that the Government
shall do something about this. Let us make a sug-
gestion. Read the News aloud over the graves.
The Chinamen will fly, the vegetables will die, and
the bones of the buried will be at rest for ever.
The Minister for Mines found Bourke and
Brewarrina the most hospitable places he had ever
been in. And he was right. It will take some
years for the railway to efface the good old times
there. But in politics the district is much the
same as any other. At the first contest after it had
been declared an electorate, ini 1880, a carrier an-
nounced his intention of stopping in Bourke with
hiß team for a week, to vote, no matter how much
it would oost him. He was nskad what hispolitical
views were, and he promptly replied, “ Well, I’m
going to vote against Barton; he ’pounded my
horses.”
This is what the elder Mr. Weller would
call “a pint of domestic policy.” Is the Civil
Service run for the benefit or the country, or is
the country run for the benefit of the Civil Ser-
vants? These questions are not unnatural, in view
of two advertisements in last week’s Herald.
In one of them a gentleman in the Civil Service
expresses his desire to enter into negotiations with
a Clerk of Petty Sessions with a view to the ex-
change of billets. In the other, a clerk in the
General Post-office states his willingness to ex-
change with a clerk in the Lands-office who wishes
to stay in Sydney; salary, £159 a year. This is ail
very nice, but is it conducive to the good workiug
of the General Post-office or of the Departments of
Lands or Justice ?
Speaking with respect to the Franchise
bill, Mr. Cnamuerlain, M.P., said : “If this Bill
were carried, it would still be possible to say that
this country—the boasted home of freedom—had
shown less confidence in the wisdom, patriotism,
and intelligence of the people than other nations
which he could refer to. In the United States the
proportion of electors to the population was 25
per cent., or one in four. In France the popula-
tion was twenty-six per cent., or rather more than
that of the United States, and in Germany it was
twenty per cent., or one in five. Jn KDgland at
the present time only nine per cent,—only one in
eleven—possessed the franchise ; and when the
Bill passed and the two million electors were ad-
mitted there would only be fifteen per cent, on the
roll, or little more than half the proportion in the
United States and France, and only three-fourths
of whgt obtained io the great empire of Germany.
(Hear, hear.) In his judgment, that was not
enough; but he only appealed to these figures in
order to show that they did Hot propose a revolu-
tionary measure, or one that sensible men need be
afraid of.” Englishmen should not rest till they
have manhood suffrage.
His Excellency Prince Li Hung Chang, the
Chinese statesman who was so closely associated
with Gordon during the Taeping war, and who
was regarded by Gordon as the ablest Chinese
potentate in the Empire, was interviewed on Sep-
tember 30 by the United States Minister. Amongst
other things, Li Hung declared “M Jules Ferry
has made a mistake in seizing on the Langson mis-
adventure as a pretext for a war with China. He
has adopted a false policy, misled thereto, pro-
bably, by the belief that China is still in the condi-
tion she was in 30 years ago, when France, in
alliance with Great Britain, marched successfully
to Peking with only San-ko-lin-sin’s undisciplined
levies to oppose them. We had no choice then but
to surrender at discretion. For, at the time, we
had the Taeping rebellion on our hands, and no
Chinese statesman was then acquainted with
foreign affairs. We were without military re-
sources. Now the situation is entirely changed.
There is no trouble in the interior of the country,
and our coast defences, moveable and stationary,
are immeasurably superior to those of the former
time. And are matters not somewhat changed
with France also ? lam told that her finances are
not altogether in a satisfactory state, and for that
and other reasons she can ill afford to despatch a
large expedition to the East. But be that as it
may, unless they are able to avail themselves of
tactics which served their turn so well at Foo-
chow, the French will not find it so easy to cap-
ture our fortresses, much less to hold them. 1 am
an old soldier, .having commanded troops in dif-
ferent provinces for thirty years, and I have in
my service many trusty officers, American, Eng-
lish, and German, on whose fidelity I can rely.
You would do well, therefore, to advise the
French Government that if Courbet is to ‘con-
tinue his operations,’ as they call it, he will have
need of vreater circumspection than was de-
manded of him at Foochow to ensure the safety
of his fleet.”
David Buchanan, Henry Parkes, and other
intelligent lovers of liberty of conscience, wf o
desire that the Government of New South Wales
shall prohibit Sunday lectures by Secularists and
others, will please to note that the people of this
colony are entitled to the same liberties as are
enjoyed by their brethren in the United Kingdom.
The announcements of Sunday lectures in one
London paper alone number no lees than 43. The
following are examples of the announcements :
“Chamberlain Club, Islington, Mr. W. Bruce,
‘ John Milton, the Poet and Politician of Common-
wealth.’ Claremont Hall, Pentonville, Mr. R
Former, ‘Radicals and Radicalism;’ at 7 pm.,
* Broken Promises: Genesis xxvi, 3.’ Milton Hall,
Kentish T»wn, Miss Thornton Smith, ‘The Doc-
trine of Eternal Torture.’ Ball’S-pond Secular
Hall, Mr. Seymour, ‘ Why Ido not believe.’ Lam-
beth Democratic Association, Mr. C. W. Oldham,
‘ Poverty; Its Cause, Effects, and Remedies.’
Woodman Tavern, Upper Norwood, Mr. Thomas
Layman, ‘ What to do with the House of Lords.’
Battersea Radical Association, Mr. A. K. Connell,
‘ London and the Land Question.’ Hall of Science.
Mrs. A. Besant, ‘The Evolution of Society;’ at 7
p.m., * Psychological Problems:’ at 9.30 p.m., Musi-
cal Entertainment, Mr. and Mrs. Henry. Borough
of Hackney Workmen’s Club, morning, Club Brass
Band; evening, Mr. and Mrs. Henry, Musical Even-
ing. Rutland Hall, South Hackney, Mr. F. Millar,
‘ the Christian Deity.’ Newton Hall, Fetter-lane,
Positivist Society, at 8 p.m., Dr. Bridges on “ The
Bible.' St. John’s Hall, Hoxton, at 11 a m., Social-
istic Conversazione, opened byJ. Blackwell; at 7
p.m., Mr. J. F. Murray, ‘Socialism: What it
Means, and What it does not Mean.’ Eleusis
Club, Chelsea, Mr. B. Fossett Lock, M.A,
•Republicanism and Democracy.’ Camberwell
Branch National Secular Society, Mr. F. Haslam,
‘ Christianity and Secularism Compared, as a reply
to Dr. Blackie.’ Southwark Radical Club, Recitals
and Sketches, by W. Littlejohn and Miss Jenny
Seymour.’’
A STUDY OF AN INTERIOR.
“For heaven’s sake, how much more are
you going to eat of that salad? You’ve put
away a half-gallon of it already.” Fender-
son: “Noneuse, I’ve only eaten a mouth-
ful.” Fogg: “That’s what I said.”
WHAT THE ENGLISH PEOPLE SAY.
High above the clash of parties swells the shout of
those who say:
Wa are marching on to Freedom; who are ye that
bar the way ?
Duke and marquis, lord and lordling, what are ye
that we should wait
In our millions, while ye listen to our thunder at
the gate ?
It were wise and woll, your Lordships, clear from
out the way, before
Ye arc asked with stern persistence by what right
ye guard the door.
Ah f ye scorn our vast processions ? Not by these
slhall ye be cowed ?
These are frolics of the masses, and the humours
of the crowd ?
It is true our martial music, mighty meetings,
platform talk
Are not action; but your Lordships is it wise at
these to mock ?
For beneath this proud “ parading,’' and these
Blazoned flags we “ilaunt,”
Flows a people's steady purpose, strong in know-
ing what they want;
And we hope to teach your Lordships, in the stern-
est sort of school.
That the people’s will is Anal, and the strongest
hand must rule.
When the civil struggle closes by your noble
House begun,
When the hurly-burly’s” over, “ when the battle’s
lost and won.”
Ye shall find the path of progress wider, stralghter,
freer made,
And our ancient throne’s foundations “even yet
more firmly ” laid;
Ye shall find the people rising to the zenith of
their hope,
Stronger In the strength of freedom with an
Empire's cares to cope.
Not to-day, nor yet to-morrow, may the fair ful-
filment be.
But, your Lordships, we are marching, and we
shall—we shall—be free.
A couple of weeks ago we commented In a
leading article upon the remarkable declaration
by the chairman of the English Congregational
Union denouncing the present land system in
Great Britain. Reynolds' London Nbw spapep,
circulation 650,000, has something to say on the
same theme. Reynolds' evidently regards the
Rev. Dr. Parker as a sort of Mr. Facing-Both-
Ways, or Mr. Worldly-Wiseman, and, with our
own observation of modern Congregationalists, we
don’t wonder. In the days of their pristine vigour,
the Congregatlonalists, or Independents as they
were then chiefly called, were v Igorous, and nearly
freethinkers. They had no regard for sbatm* or
gilded evils. A king, in the ir view, was not a
demi-god, but a man whose function it was to live
not on, but for, the people. It was Congregatiomil-
ists who had most to do with c hopping off the head
of that really dignified and se lf-satisfled and well-
meaning humbug, Charles Iwhose otherwise
dmirable character was corrupted by his regal
onviction that the Almighty had made him of
different clay from other Britons, aDd that they
existed for the purpose prj marily of prov iding
him with money. Latter-day Congregationalists
are weak-kneed creatures whenever they have
got rich. They hanker after aristocratic recogni-
tion, and ape the ideas as they do the customs of
helm aristocrats. We remember a noted Sydney
Oringregationalist lelling us that when Albert the
Good for Nothing died, he ivept. However, to
return to our starting-point, here s how Reynolds’
rallies the Rev. Or. Parker:- 11 But he anticipates
a time when the land shall he held and cultivated
into plentiful harvests by people who had heard a
gieat voice from heaven saying, 1 The earth is the
Lord's and the fullness thereof.’ This is a very
effective peroration; but is anything practical to
come of it ? Will they bring their earnestness to a
practical teßt ? The Highland Crofters are now in
extremities owing to the condition of the Scotch
law. Even as we write, they are being subjected
to harsh and even cruel evictions at the hands of
rapacious landlords, and, in their despair of re-
dress, they are signing an engagement not to act
in the Naval Reserve or any other service. Will
Dr. Parker and the leading representatives of
Congregationalism manifest their earnestness on
the Land Question by demanding suspension from
eviction for the Crofters until Parliament has time
to consider their case ? After the tall talk of yes-
terday, it would be desirable that some practical
result should follow.”
Respecting the “trial” and execution of
eight flihillsts—a lieutenant-colonel, a staff-cap-
tain, a lieutenant, a naval lieutenant, a navigating
lieutenant, a sub-lieuteDant, and two ladies, one
priest’s daughter—a London paper remarks:—
“They were put to death in the presence of the
prison officials, the Minister of the Interior, and
the Minister of Justice. The public knew neither
the day nor the hour of the event. But the cir-
cumstances of this secret execution, grim and
weird as they are, sink into insignificance when
compared with the trial which preceded it. These
criminals, as we will assume them to have been,
were tried as privately as they were put to death.
Hardly any one was admitted into the court ex-
cept the judges, the advocates, the witnesses, and
a Minister of State. There was no jury. The
Chief of the St. Petersburg High Court of Justioe
presided, but the tribunal was a court-martial,
Fourteen persons were sentenced to death. The
Emperor, however, has commuted the sentence
upon six of them. The charge against all was that
they belonged to the terrorist party of the Will of
the People. One prof essional judge and ten colonels
tried and condemned indiscriminately a number of
people, some of whom were civilians and could not
therefore have committed a military offence. The
proceedings were conducted in a small house,
without tne knowledge even of those who in-
habited the same street. We need not waste
words in showing that under such a system there
can be no security for the administration of jus-
tice, or oven for the observance of law. Anyone
obnoxious to the Court or to the Government
could be put out of the way on the evidence of one
perjured informer, or without any evidence at all.
We do not say that It was so in this case. These
prisoners may have been found guilty on testi-
mony which would have satisfied any jury. Where
is the guarantee? The judges answer for the
?uiltof their victims. Who will answer for the
udges? No Russian newspaper dare protest. In-
deed, there are very few Russian newspapers left.
The object of Count Tolstoi's administration is, of
course, to intimidate the members of a formidable
and widespread conspiracy. But a general terror
which affects the innocent does not deter the real
culprits. The Nihilists are indeed a source of
deadly peril, especially when there is nothing in
the shape of liberal or representative institutions
between them and absolute despotism. Yet even
Nihilists might be detected and punished without
shocking the feelings of civilised mankind.”
» » »
Said Mr. Chamberlain, in a recent speech:
—“ I begin to hope that a Welsh friend of mine
was right when he told me that whereas at the
last general election a hansom cab would have
been enough to taketheTory membersfrom Wales
to Westminster, at the next general election a
perambulator would be much more than suffi-
cient.” ...” T. N. Harvey” writes from Waterford
to the Pall Mall:— " Ireland has been organised
and educated to a degree that makes success at
the polling not probable, but certain, and the
highest estimate of numbers of members of the
Pameilite party will probably be nearest the
truth. When you have a compact body of, say,
seventy-five members voting as a unit on all im-
portant questions, there may be some difficulty In
carrying on the Queen’s Government.”....Scores
of workmen and their children are dying of star-
vation at bunderland. Yet, when that libidinous
vagabond, the “Grand Duke of Hesse,” who had
come over to England on business connected with
his harem, was about to return, the Queen placed
at bis disposal for the voyage the Royal yacht, at
a cost to the taxpayers of no end of money....
The late Chief Secretary for Ireland, Mr. Trevelyan,
is still protected by a detective, who accompanies
him everywhere The Tory peers have been
making very merry at tho threat of extinction
levelled at them. ’! hey should remember the fate
of Chalchas, the soothsayer, who roared so heartily
at his having outlived the time predicted for his
death that he fell down in a fit and expired on the
spot. Great merriment has very otten preceded
immediate dissolution. The gay has led to the
grave. Margutte died of laughter at seeing a
monkey try to pull on a pair of boots. Zeuxis, the
painter, laughed so heartily at a hag which he had
just depicted tjiat he dropped all of a heap and was
taken up a corpse. Philomenes died of laughter
at seeing an ass eat the figß intended for his own
dessert.
“Willing” is the name of the very latest
parlour amusement out in London, and it is the
outcome of the thought-reading mania started by
IrvlDg liishop and ChamberJayne. As no deception
or hanky-panky business of any kind is allowed,
the game is interesting, and rather startling results
are sometimes obtained. This is the style in which
it’s played. Three persons are required to enact
“ willing, ’’ two of whom decide out of earshot of
the third on some action he or she shall be •‘willed”
to perform. The one to be “ willed ” is then blind-
folded, while with hands joined round his or her
waist-[this is a most pleasing part of the perform-
ance when the “ willed ” one is a young lady]-and
thoughts steadily directed to the object in view,
the other players “ wish” with all their might that
their decision shall be carried out. In some cases,
the result is rapid enough to be startling, the party
blindfolded, after a few moments’indecision, mov-
ing in the required direction, and either perform-
ing tne very action required or else something very
like it. In one case recorded the hands were barely
placed on a gentleman before he started off and
performed the feat allotted—which, by the way,
was ratherawkward for himself, ashewas “willed’ 5
to walk through a certain folding-door, in front of
which a deep excavation had been previously made
unknown to the players, and into which the blind-
folded party jumped with a souse that loosened
nearly every bone in his body. In cases where the
person to be “ willed ” is a symmetrical young
maid of sweet 17, or so, it has been found neces-
sary to limit the hugging time to a quarter of an
hour, and in case no results have been recorded
up to that time, the other two players (males, of
course,) are dragged away by steam power or
trained elephants which are kept for the purpose.
Care must be taken in the choice of the tasks
allotted, however, or little unpleasantnesses may
occur, as was the case when a piece of newspaper
was thrown on a certain parlour floor, and the
blindfolded one-a bashful young curate—was
“ willed ” to pick it up and place it on his head.
While the “willing” was going on in'fhe next
room, the lady hostess, who knew nothing of the
game going on, entered the parlour, and unfor-
tunately stood on the all-important slip of paper.
Persons with a phenomenal power of imagination
may conceive some faint idea of the surprise the
lady subsequently felt when she found her rever-
end friend down on his knees endeavouring to
lift her feet on top of his head before all the
company, but no one could possibly imagine the
shame and horror of the poor young curate when
his winkers were taken off and the matter fully
explained to him. “ Willing ” is a game that has a
deal to recommend it, and in the now world-famed
words of the only Alfred, it should “ take wel, and
give grate pleshir tu orl.”
[ Puck, ’85. Comic wood-outs in black and white 1


Professional Directory.
HISCOCKS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
cialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
ties, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’ Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
BERTRAM WILLISON, Agent-Manager. At
liberty. Close contractor. Salary or share.
Write 27 Hunter-street.
Theatre royal.
Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. S. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo. L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—B. N. Jones.
COMPLIMENTARY BENEFIT TO
G. L. GOODMAN, Treasurer,
THIS THURSDAY EVENING.
SPECIAL PROGRAMME.
When the performance will commence with
THE HAPPY PAIR.
Concluding with Messrs. Pettitt and Conquest's
magnificent Drama,
ROYAL PARDON.
ALFRFD DAMPIER,
B. N. JONES
and the
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 55.: Stalls, 35.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway’s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
N
EW OPERA HOUBE.
Lessees ... E. Majkroni and W. J. Wilson.
This and Every Evening.
IMMEASURABLE SUCCESS OF
MAJERONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in LUSCOMBE SEARKLLE’S NEW OPERA
ROBADIL
BOBADIL
BOBADIL
IiOBADIL
‘niavaoii
navaoa
With the following powerful Cast:—
Miss Grade Plaisted
Miss Minnie Desmond
Mr. Chss. Hardiujf
Mr. F. Wentworth
Mr. A. Davies
Miss Frances Saville
Miss Blanche Leopold
Mr. Geo. Leopold
Mr. Oily Deering
Mr. W. P. Morrison
NEW SCENERY by Mr. ALFRED CLINT.
Grand ORCHESTRA under the Baton of
Mr. LUBCOMBE SEARBLLE.
Leader HERR KUSTKR.
BOBADIL. BOBADIL. BOBADIL.
Box plan now open at A. aod C. Huenerbein’s
Music Warehouse, 318, George-street.
Gaiety
Lessee
Manager for Mr. Reeve
THEATRE.
.. Mr. Wybert Reeve.
.. Mr. G. A. Coleman.
ANOTHER GRAND SUCCESS.
ANOTHER CROWDED HOUSE.
ANOTHER DELIGHTED AUDIENCE
to see the
MONTAGUE-TURNER ENGLISH OPERA
COMPANY
in
BOHEMIAN GIRL BOHEMIAN GIRL
BOHEMIAN GIRL BOHEMIAN GIRL.
SATURDAY, CARMEN.
Box Plan at Nicholson's.! 1 Prices: 55., 35., 25., Is.
Doors open at 7, overture 7.45.
H. TREVORAH, Business Manager.
DUNCAN MACALLUM, Agent.
HALL, YORK STREET.
Herr and Mme. Vogrich’s
EIGHTH GRAND
SIOREE MUSIGALE!
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16th.
Herr and Madame VOGRICH will be supported
by the best available talent.
Subscription for the Series of 8 (Eight) Concerts.
£1 10s.
Plan of Hall and Tickets at W. H. Paling and
Co.’s (Limited), 356 George-street.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First open date, Monday. January
19th, 1885. Share or Let. Terms on applica-
tion to
J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTS HALL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
have been made to the above Hall, which is
now the most commodious place of entertainment
In Rockhampton, and is in the centre of the town.
It is thoroughly furnished and fitted, seated for
500 people, and has a large Stage and Gallery.
Ample means of access and egress have been pro-
vided ; also thorough ventilation. Travelling
companies will find special facilities for giving
entertainments in this Hall. Terms moderate.
Particulars on application to the Secretary.
£o:
N
N
G
ROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh-street, near Bathurst-street. P.B.
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
snrlng floor, &c. No decorations required.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, cate of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the frilly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission, 3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
2d.; 100 tickets, 215.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 2ls.
B3T- SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavilli, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from France to England in 12 hours, 20th August
1877. Six Lessons, 21s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
C. B. MODIHI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia>of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia. Italy.
UNRIVALLED
Medals Gamed against the World
.
First Prizes ana Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George & Market Streets, Sydney
BP" Teeth painlessly extracted by Laughing Gas
JSther Spray, Methyline, and Chloroform.
OP
IN
KRteOßffS
IESSENeEorUFE'II
e only infallible remedy for
j&R/oifsiDEßltlJYT
THIS Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently oures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most sacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 135., or four quantities is one for
365.; if by coach, 3s. 6d. extra. Agents for Sydney,!
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from Georga-street South.
O ALL WOMEN.
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
ftd. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE S TREET, SYDNEY.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
COLES
m
h
ChristisasSe Hsw Year Cards
H
EDWARD R. COLE
AS pleasure In announcing that he has just
received a Magnidcent Assortment of
(Wmi Hsw Tear Ms
from the principal English, American, and Conti-
nental Manufacturers, comprising’ all the
LATEST and MOST ELEGANT DESIGNS in
Floral Cards
Plushed Cards
Fringed Cards
Hand-Painted Cards
Photographic Cards,
Gelatine Cards
Floral Fans
Compressed Flower Cards
Mechanical Cards
Folding Cards
Satchets
&c., &c., &c.
The Stock, amounting to
£3OOO,
is of the Choicest and Most Varied Description
ever shown in Sydney, representing the pick of
the London, American, and Continental Markets ;
and many of the designs are unrivalled for beauty
of finish and execution, fn order to clear out
this immense stock of Cards, they will be sold at a
small advance on manufacturers' prices, and less
than Sydney Wholesale Prices.
EDWARD R. COLE,
Wholesale and Retail Card Emporium,
BOOKS, MAGAZINES, and STATIONERY,
Corner of George and King-streets.
HfcY WIH- LOOK BETTER THAN NE 1
m
HAVE YOUR OLD
»
RE PLATED BY.R.HELYER
HEY WILL WEARBETTER THAN NEW
Vfm. Howard Smlth]& Sons
(LIMITED)
LINB of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS*
Offices : 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Bteamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED-
NEBDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Bteamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDJLYB.
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Maclcay s
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNIN YONG
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMAIN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
KONOOWARRA
LEURA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGg.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
N
O W READY
NEW SOUTH; WALES
Weather Almanac
FOR 1885.
77 Pages of Useful and Reliable Information,
containing amongst other items of interest:—
Barometer and Weather Indications
Gardening Information
Government Departments, &c.
Howto Measure Tanks and Wells
Monthly Gardening Hints
Parliamentary Municipalities
Postal Information
Probable Weather. Registration of Births and
Deaths
Stamp Duties Act. Sydney Ferry and Harbour
Steamers
Tariffs of the Australian Colonies. Telegraphic
Information
The Seasons. Traveller’s Guide
Weight of Hay in Stacks. Useful Recipes
&0., &c., &c.
The special attention of readers is directed to
the following innovations which have been intro-
duced in the 1885 issue:
Climate of New South Wales
New Land Law
Carefully Compiled Digest of Our Doctor
Winners of Principal Colonial Sporting Events.
FOR SALE by all Booksellers.
Price, Gd., by post, Bd.
GTBBS, SHALLARD, and CO.,
Publishers and Proprietors,
Lithographic and Letterpress Printers,
Account Book Manufacturers,
Artists, Engravers, Electrotypers,
Rubber Stamp Makers, &c.,
70, Pitt-street, Sydney.
2S»
mm
*
f
AS
*
%
o
o
Royal
Sydney
Arcades
6
\V
->T m
NNAf A
Jus> opened by
LANG. BftOs
54 & s(@ WiLLjiAM
REFRESHMENT IRoON] LADIES&GENTyf
Pastry-. Tea. Cream .Refreshments #1
are unequalled.
i.A'A'A’/i'A'A'A
The Cafe & Refreshment- Rao^open.daily from SAM f<ill3QP.M
Orders to of Town to II P.M
Specially Established for Private Order Trade
LOCH-DHU V.O.Scotch Whisky.
SHAMROCK V.O. Irish Whisky.
OF all Whiskies Imported, these are the Oldest, Purest, and Best. They were awarded GOLD
MEDALS at every Exhibition, viz.,
GOLD MEDALS, CALCUTTA.
GOLD MEDALS, S. and W. AUSTRALIA.
GOLD MEDALS, NEW ZEALAND.
LOCH-DHU and SHAMROCK WHISKIES
are bottled and shipped in bond under supervision of H.M. Customs. Full contents guaranteed
KIRKER, GREER & CO. (Limited), Belfast and Glasgo v.
G. H. ADAMS, Agent, 119 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Melbourne. Brisbane, and Adelaide:
JfrjLS' 7uZJu-*LCf flxzhsZnZLA-vt, Trzz t. -46
£> o£Zcl2+o e' ' ' 7 ‘
C ’QTtsm.4/ ~J7vsfii&cZvoj
j6oj£
fris 0~?u
uje&


A cruel joke has been played on a stranger
in a foreign land. We refer to our old friend
“ Captain,” the King-street aquatic oracle. Nays
“Captain,” in last week’s “notes The New
South Wales Rowing Association have arranged
the following matches for the Gletoe Rowing Club:
—lntercolonial matches: January 31, Glebe v. City;
February 28, Glebe v. Balmain; April 25. Glebe v.
Union Recreation; May 30, Glebe v. Rosehill. Pre-
sident’s Trophy: January 10. Glebe v Rosehill;
February 14, Glebe v. Union Recreation; March 14,
Qlebe v. Balmain; May 9, Glebe v City; June 12,
Glebe v. Parramatta.” Can there be any limit to
the patienoe of a King street editor? We think
not, or "Captain ” would ere this have been rele-
gated to his old position on a mud-punt, the style
of craft on which, we should say, “Captain” had
won his hard-earned title. But then, you know,
amateur pressmen are dear at any price.
Puck, 85. Comic cartoons in colours!
Truth learns from a reliable authority
that the German Emperor’s recent accident was
not caused, as has been stated, by his horse tripping
over a wire, but that the old gentleman fell out of
his saddle in a faint, which, it was at first feared
by his suite, was something very like an apoplectic
tit. Of late he has failed 'visibly, and it is the
general opinion of his entourage that he might "go
off ” at any moment.
Puck, ’B5, 6d. A Portfolio of Perfection!
Those eager to secure something pretty
for a Christmas present that will be novel and
interesting, without the fault of sameness that
characterises the ordinary holiday gift, will find at
Bray Brothers, 402 and 404 George-st.reet, a great
variety of ingenious devices skilfully worked in
plated ware particularly snitable for the season. *
Puck,’Bs. Illustrated. An Olio of Oddities!
13@r WILL BE PUBLISHED
ON
Tuesday, Dec. 23.
OP
A Special Enlarged
Issue!
MAGNIFICENT COLOURED
CHROMO-LITHOGRAPHED
Picture Supplement,
By W. MACLEOD, Esq ,
“Tracked!”
A CHRISTMAS CAROL,
In Black and White,
DRAWN BY L. HOPKINS.
A REGULAR BUDGET
OF
Sketches, Yarns, and Fun!
LAVISHLY ILLUSTRATfD.
NOTHING TO EQUAL IT!
Price —6d. only.
Agents will please send in their orders for
extra copies.
Advertisers will please note that only a couple
of pages will be allotted to extra advertisements.
Thus their announcements will have the grandest
display attainable in any Australian Newspaper,
and will be seen and read by more people than
advertisements in any other publication in these
Colonies.
Special rates on application.
THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
Ghristmas Gifts! Christmas Gifts!
THE ORIENTAL GOLD COMPANY have,
with their usual thuughttulness tor the
general public, imported, soeciallv tor the Xmas
season, a great variety of the most novel and ex-
quisite goods which cannot fail to suit the tastes
of the most fastidious. The goods, which have
been carefully selected by their ageot from all the
best manufactories, are well worthy of inspection,
each article possessing some speoinl charm of its
own, and nothing can be more adapted for grace-
ful and elegant Christmas (lifts than these beauti-
ful gems. Note our pricelist, and
Remember the Address :
474 George-st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, 155., 20s„ and 255. each {
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 65., 65., 7s. 0d„
Bs., Bs. 6d., 98., and 10s a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. od. to 305.; Ladies’ very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2los. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
7s. to 15s. a pair ; Ladies’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, 158. to 305.; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaines, 30s. each ; Ladies’
choice Lockets and Necklets. 17s. 6d., 20s, 225.
6d., 255., 275. 6d., 305., 355., and 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. (id., 10s., 15s , 205., and 30s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Rings, from 2s (id. to Bs. 6d. each; Solid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Qent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, In hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £2 2 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £2 6 0
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watch, In hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells £2 15 0
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless £3 0 0
These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rat,od*to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert ..£460
Celebrated English Patent Lever, extra
Jewelled, and compensation balanoe,
with Oriental Gold Albert £6 6 0
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levers £4 10 0
; Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. £6 6 0
The celebrated Waltham Watch, In hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert £3 a 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balanoe, with
Oriental Gold Albert £4 15
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph,
with Oriental Gold Albert £6 5 0
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade .. : £6 6 0
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket £lO 10 0
We import our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected—about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men’s profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
in most Sydney establishments ; and, as oompared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, os. od.,
7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., and 10l each ; Gent’s Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby Rings. 7s. fid.
and Bs. fid., each; Gent’s Oriental Gold Rings,
plain half, round buckle, fiat broad buckL, en-
graved, good luck rinys, &c., &0., from ss. to
Bs. fid. each; Gent's richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 75., 7s. fid., Bd..
Bs. fid., 95., 10s., and 12s. fid. per set!; same as
above, only half sets, 35., 45., and ss. per set ;
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s. per set: Gent’s elegant Seals, real
stones, 7s. fid.. Bs., 95., 10s.. ana 12s. fid. each ;
Gent’s elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs.,
10s., and 12s. fid. each ; Gent’s Oriental Gold Al-
berts, handsome patterns, fis. fid. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Al-
berts, made speeially.to our order, 17s. fid., 205.,
255., and 30s. each.
ORIENTAL GOLD
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist’s art. It looks like
gold, it is as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring.
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by,the severestltests. Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal in design and
general appearance to .those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe
oflthe Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of pure metals;
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the closest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. 8o perfect is it, and so
large has our trade become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness in
trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, we prefer to deal
directly with the public. All of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be sent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
alter inspecting the articles, re-pack them at once
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured -we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you tnayirequire.
The Oriental Gold Company have been ap-
pointed Sole Agents for the AUTOPHONE- price,
305.; also for the ROLLER ORtSAN—price, 40s.
No house should be without one of these charming
little instruments.
SHILLINGS,
Ai/iiit
m
The Aufophone!
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal- Benefit to G.L. Goodman...p. 8
Opera House—“ Bobadil ” ib.
Gaiety Theatre—Montague-Turner Opera,. ib.
“ Bobadil ” still at the Opera House It is
not easy to discover or invent anything? fresh to
say of it, except that the people rol' up, part with
their money, and leave apparently satisfied. At
least, they fro away and say nothin*. The only
artist likely to cause a bombardment is the police-
man. Why he is suffered to come on at all, or,
having appeared, why he is allowed to get away
without being knocked endways with a brick from
the gallery, is to us a dark and impenetrable mys-
tery. He is not necessary; he is not entertaining;
he provokes no mirth. The laughter that follows
his advent is not gay, but hollow and minatory.
It is the glee of imps, as they crowd round a defunct
bishop to truss him for roasting. We warn this
person that he will get his uniform torn once too
often—that some of the skin will come with it
one of these nights, and that his pure Celtic accent
will reach the public without passing over teeth.
* * *
What do we really think of “Bobadil”?
Well, the fact is, now we’ve had time to turn the
matter completely over, we think it a really re-
markable work. This is mere trifling, is it ? So.
You’ve seen little articles of Chinese and Japanese
bric-a-brac—wee models, where men’s heads are
joined to animals’ bodies. The combination may
be very dextrous, but it is disappointing. So with
a good deal of the music of “ Bobadil.” You hear
a few sparkling bars, and, sitting well back, you
say “ Ah, there’s melody at last.” But, with some
exceptions, the sweet air falls into the hands of a
stepmother, and is either strangled in its youth or
so warped by cruel treatment as to grow up hunch-
backed and ricketty—its early promise unfulfilled,
its cuckoo nature showing itself with each fall of
the hdton. It is as if Kendall wrote the first two
lines of a sonnet and indolently threw them to—
(we leave out names, as we’re not yet in a fit state
to meet our Maker)—to mortice on the remaining
twelve. This, we say, is the character of much of
the music. But it is only fair to add that there are
melodies in the work which do not lose themselves
in a labyrinth nor run bald-headed up a cul-de-sac,
but, getting off well at the start, keep up a rattling
pace to the finish. Many of the choruses, too, are
pleasing and effective.
* ♦ *
In “Bobadil” there are two performers—
Mr. Harding and Miss Plaisted. Of course, there
are others on the bill, but they are mere spectres,
gloomy and Plutonian, with two exceptions-Mr.
Leopold and Mr. Deering. in an old country like
England, where there are rich churches to be
robbed and rich houses offering every facility to
the enterprising burglar, or in a new land like
thK where there are bricks to be wheeled and
turnips to be raised, it is little less than amazing
how the “ proiesh ” still keeps up its supply of
recruits. They come like shadows, but they never
depart. They will sing and act, till you sigh for
some abysmal Atlantic hollow over which to
jettison tnem. But, enough. Like Weller, junior,
“ven ve gets on this ’ere grievance ve runs on
like anew barrow vith the vheel greased.” As
Shacabac, Mr. Leopold reminded us something of
Sam Keenan. Possibly he took the latter for a
model. But he had not his cavernous mouth and
phenomenal ears. As general “ knock-about ”
man ” and “ cbucker-out,” also, he was a long
way behind Sam. While he was fooling about
witn his innocuous wooden scimiter, or Bustling
inoffensive eunuchs, Sam would have had the
whole Sublime Porte standing on their heads and
the Caliph’s spine hanging out between his teeth.
As for Mr. Deering, you might worship him with-
out committing idolatr y. He was like nothing in
earth, air, or water. He may, perhaps, resemble
the old sceptic who was glued to the moon for
“shaking” sticks on Sunday, but, failing that,
Nature might be ransacked in vain for a mate for
him Even a looking-glass wouldn’t reflect him
nronerly. Of the Caliph and his son we’re not
bound to say anything. It is a critic’s privilege to
keep silence when he likes.
• • •
Some people don’t like Mr. Harding’s
voice We do. And we like Miss Plaisted’s. She
is petite, but he voice is not. It is sweet, distinct,
and far-reaching. On her and Mr. Harding the
Sydney success of Bobadil has mainly de-
pended, and they have not been found wanting.
•* * *
It was Remenyi’s last night. From floor
to ceiling, tier upon tier, rose a sea of expectant
faces. On the roof could be heard the patter of
tiny feet and the shrill alto of childish voices,
awed into momentary quietude by the occasional
tread of a fireman. Through every window, It om
every niche and cranny oapable of supporting life
and bulk, peered eager eyes, all focussed on the
door through which the maestro was to enter. On
stout ropes across the great hall, high above the
of the seething mass below, were festoons
ofyfluihs and maidens, laughing, chatting, and
revelling iB the innocent gambols so natural to the
epringtida at being, when existence is a pleasant
dream and fife's young May moon has not yet be-
com “gibbous. Wit, pungent as is diumany flashed
from the “Brevity’' column of the Evening
Kews : fun, “ wholesome ’ as ever scintillated
frSw the pages of Sypnot Pp»CH (to be oon-
(femifcid, alas! a lew hours later to hide its efful-
gence round trotters), were in the air. A door
opened, A man entered. It was Remenyi 1
* * *
He approached the foot-light s . His left
hand held a violin-tbe bow was grasped in his
right. There was silence. Who Bh afl analyse
emotions that passed through his soul as be thought
of his distant beloved Hungary, and, gaaing at the
Atlantic of humanity before him ino dead-head),
reflected that he would never bp (it s no use, it has
to come) hungry again 1 With a brayely-«up-
pressed sob, he felt in his pockets and a
strange, semi-transparent substance, the size of a
filbert. A dissipated person near us said Rosin,
but quickly collapsed on observing
ing gestures of those around. He touched tho
atl-intra it was the Hungarian dance. The effect
was overpowering. What mattered Jr
vast audience there were but two Hungarians
one on the roof with a hose, the °tke r the pit
honestly vending oranges, apples, and lemonade.
The air was not local-it was not even EuroDean.
It spoke to all—it was cosmopolitan. On all the
effeot was phenomenal. But on the two
exiles, as the familiar strains they had hoard in the
gorges of the far-away Carpathians rose and fell,
the effect was phantasmal. Their lowly a\ oca-
tions. Australia and its vulgar surr o .™ l * l *’* B ’
forgotten. Again they joined the village “a* d ®° B
in the dance or met with unbianched faoea the
tierce onset of Austrian squadrons. That nIK t
they were both in the lockup.
• ♦ ■
Tiie subtlest cunning of “technique,” the
widest “ breadth of tone,” the daintiest contrasts
of “ light and shade,” are mere child s play to tnis
incomparable artist! In his hands you are a mere
plastic mass, an amorphous simulacrum, which he
moulds at bis will. It is not a violini now,, much
less a fiddle. A fiddle! Bah I Under his exquisite
touch it becomes idealised, spiritualised, macada-
mised. You laugh and weep; you crow and sob,
you [N.B.-Tbe foreman just came down and
said, “No offence, sir, but the
been reading the two ‘pars, you B ®pt u P
that fiddler. Some o’ them say th o e ? v “ ”?. c “ n e s
to find fault with the office so far, and don t mind
staying another month; but most o them Put on
their coats an’ said they could get jobs in the
country any day an’ didn t come to S> dney t P 8 ®
up suoh —slush.” We then discovered we d been
copying the Herald’s critiques on Bjßmenyi, and
got them mixed up with the Council 8 report on
wooden pavements and a police case from the
Telegraph.] # # #
It was no wonder the Turners sang well
so Satnrdav niwht. People who couldn t chirrup
in front of such a crush should keep a turn-pike or
take in washing. Let us offer a little suggestion.
“Muritanu” is the choicist English oprra. Com-
pared with it, the “ Bohemian Girl,” “ Satanella,”
and as many others as you can think of, occupy
seats ever so far back. Every air is familiar. Why,
then, before the conductor’s hdtnn starts the first
note in the orchestra, are not the enfants terrible*
who prowl round with “ books of the words and
songs,” gagged and thrown down a tank? For-
tunately the trombone had a few bars to worry
through at the beginning of the overture, so that
the little ghouls’ squeaks could make small head-
way. But when that fascinating instrument ceased
its dulcet strain, aud the maestro who wrestled
with it turned to the big drum fm; a chew of to-
bacco, the fiddles took up the running, and high
above them soared the maddening importunities
of the youthful “ opera-book ” fiends. Of course,
it may be said there's no tank handy, but this is
the merest trifling with the question. Mr. Cole-
man should see to this. An ingenious fellow like
him could surely adopt some means short of down-
right inhumanity to wipe out this nuisance before
custom renders it too formidable. During the
overture to “ Fra Diavolo ’’ a few nights ago, some
of the daintiest movements had to work their pas-
sage through a running fire of discordant solici-
tation.
* * *
At first we paid little attention to the
music. Coleman was sitting behind us with a
bouquet as big as a banyan tree. He must have
got it through the sky-light with a windlass when
our back was turned. “ What will ho do with it ?”
occupied our mind to the exclusion of all else.
Will he barter it for alcohol, or, by means of a
catapult, aim it with deadly effect at some inoffen- |
sive person on the stage ? The mental tension be-
came sickening. Then we turned to him and said,
“Villain! either you or we leave this, unless you
tell us how you came by that conservatory, and
what you’re going to do with it.” He drew him-
self up to his full height, smiled bitterly, called
the door-keeper to give him a hand and left. Then
we spread for work.
* * *
Chorus first. We missed some well-re-
membered faces—faces that on many a dreary night
kept us from hiding our sorrows in the Yarra or
the storm-swept waters of Port Nicholson. Many
a time in the long ago, when struggling with the
demon of remorse, have we gone home to bed
hungry but contented, after viewing the placid
immobility—the cheery light-heartedness—of those
absent ones. To see them come on as soldiers in
helmets of the most antique pattern and recondite
material; as peasants in hose of the most depress-
ing cut; as courtiers in the heterogeneous finery
of a dead century; to see them drink imaginary
“ wollop ” from crystal goblets of mahogany, and
(yes, by ,) ask for “more;" all this, with the
prospect of the ghost’s being unable to walk on
pay-day, induced us to live on. But we digress.
Although, in severe moral reotitude and feet, the
present chorus are well abreast of the tim.-s, the
same can soarcely be said for their voices. They
lack repose, too. Among them the caste of Vere do
Yere does not appear to be adequately represented.
The arx cclare artern has few disciples among them.
When it becomes necessary to attend to instruc-
tions, they twist their ears into funnels in their
anxiety to let no word escape them. This osten-
ta ious desire to appear effective is not in accord-
ance with the canons of true art. Had their ears
been stuffed with shavings aud sealed with cob-
bler’s wax before they came on, there might have
been some reason for this evident desire to keep
au courant with what was passing round them.
We throw this out as a mere suggestion. They
might suiter some inconvenience at first from
these foreign bodies, but nothing that a cold chisel
and a sledge wouldn’t quickly remove. Among
them we recognised our old friend Smike, over
whose untimely end we blubbered a generation
ago. He appears to be the same guileless, trusting
fellow we know out of Dickens’s page. A look of
beatitude lighted up his face as he placed his hand
in Maritana’s to have his fortune told. We couldn’t
bear what she said; but if she told him that there
are men whose physical oomeliness fit them for
driving a hearse, she wouldn’t have been far out.
• • •
Of the Marquis of Monteflore, Mr. Johnson
made a low comedy part with gay exits, but with-
out the leg of mutton in the distance. Miss Pen-
rose’s Marchioness was a marvel of well-seasoned
ugliness. As the Alcade, Mr. Taylor jerked out the
few monosyllables he had to say in a voice which
was, no doubt, intended forsome useful purpose at
present inscrutable. Mr. Harley’s Captain of thu
Guard was a bit wooden, but, withal, satisfactory.
As Don Jose, Mr. Templeton created a sort of
neutral impression. Mr. Gordon's King of Spain
evoked no enthusiasm except a mild homicidal
spasm when he put on the gloves to knock the
stuffing out of the lower F (wo think). Some
thought him a stick; others, that the comparison
was rough on-hirn. One thing we can frankly
say-if late Spanish monarchs resembled him in
any way, the wonaer is why the crown jewels of
that favoured country haven’t been sold long ago,
and a Republic proclaimed.
• • •
As Lazarillo, Miss Lome made her first
appearance in Bydney. She had a good reception,
and deserved it. Her voice is a contralto of no
great power, but sweet, and of good range. For
her part in “ Turn on, old Time,” and “ Alas, those
chimes,” she received deserved applause, empha-
sized by a bouquet, which, by just missing M.
Caron, just missed bringing the entertainment to
a premature and melancholy close. A few inches
more to the right, and that talented musician
would now be sitting on a rainbow, tuning a
golden harp for a sempiternal overture. We have
no space to say much of Mr. Turner or Miss Mon-
tague. They have been heard too often in " Mari-
tana ” to render much neoessary, or even desirable.
Some of the high B flats were left severely alone
by Charles, but, on the whole, his singing was very
effective throughout. Of the Gitana, we need
only say that when she was on the stage you could
have heard (for all the noise the audience made)
the prayer of a money-lender. When she was
going off, you couldn’t have heard a fog-horn.
* * * *
Well done, Metropolitan Liedertafelt Tho
seventh social concert of this society was un-
doubtedly the best they have yet given, taking it
all round. The first chorus, “ The Banners
Wave, was rather uneven, but the “German
Serenade,” one of the sweetest things ever written,
was almost without a fault. It gave their new
tenor a chance of distinguishing himself; and, if
he had not persisted in calling out to his love
“Gooddo night,” instead of “Good night,” his
small sweet voice would not have been at all
amiss. But, where was Brown ? It is time, how-
ever, that another tenor had an innings at those
concerts: we were having just a little too much of
the same one. Mr. Hallewell will make the “ Val-
ley ” popular, if he goes on singing it as he did this
night. We don’t object to its becoming popular,
but we do hope we shall never hear it sung by a
played-out, husky, unmusical tass; Mr. Hallewell
has spoilt us lor that. We could very well have
dispensed with the duet between Messrs. Clancy
and West; but, as we had no say in the matter, we
had to sit and endure it. It was amusing to see
the eyes start out of the heads of the audienoe,
and their mouths gape with wonder, when Mr.
Had cliff came on and flute soloed. As there is
about one flautist to every hundred violinists,
people don’t quite understand what the flute is
capable of. They bear an amateur tootle away in
a weak-lipped iashion, and then pronounce the
flute to be an ineffective instrument. So it is
little wonder that Mr. Kadcllff’s playing was an eye-
tor, rather, an ear-) opener to hundreds there that
night. And what a mistake to suppose the violin
has more affinity to the human voioe than any
other instrument! In a violin obligato to a song,
for instance, the instrument is always distinguisn-
able from the voice, while with a flute it is almost
like a vocal duet. Of course we speak only after
heari lg Mr. Radclitf play a flute obligato to
Madame Pauline Rita-Radcliff's singing. It may
be that there is not another pair in the world who
could trill at each other and with each other as
they do. The audience were determined to have
as much of them both as they could, so encored
everything they did with unbounded applause, and
rather thoughtless, persistence. Mrs. Peter Curtis
sang “The Kingdom Blest,” with nice expression
and a pleasant voice, for which she received an
encore. Boccherinis’ “ Miruetto” always finds a
welcome from a Sydney audience, being, as it is,
one of those charming little morceaux, within the
cc mprehension of all. Herr Kretschmann and
three gentlemen amateurs gave it on this occasion
as a string quartette. Of all their choruses, “ The
Two Roses was the best, and if the Metropolitan
Lledertafel go on improving under the baton of
the genial Herr Hugo as they have done, why, the
Sydney Lledertafel had better look to their laurels
—that's all!
** * •
One of the novel features of the forth-
coming Radclitf ballad concert will be a flute duet,
played for the flrst time in Sydney, by Mr. Radcliff
and a lady amateur.
** * *
There was no change at the Royal during
last week. “ The Turn of the Tide ” ran uninter-
ruptedly, and filled with the gloomiest forebodings
the few who pluckily sat it out. In the un-
tenananted murk the actors’ voices sounded hol-
low and funereal. Even Greville’s inspired tom-
foolery touched no responsive chord, while the
praiseworthy efforts of the others were received
with stoney indifference. Mr. Goodman takes a
benefit to-night (Thursday).


PEPPER AND SALT.
Anyone who imagines that the Govern-
ments of Australia monopolise all the red tape and
official damphoolishness in this world, can at once
perceive by perusing the following item that they
are Ailing their heads with a high old mistake in-
deed. Only the other day, a sentry-post at the
Government offices in St- James’s Park was dis-
continued after 20 years of painfully active service.
Shear Madness.
“OUT YER HAIR, BOSS? WELL, I CAN PUT THROUGH MY BEVENTY A DAY IN ANY
SHED IN THE COLONIES, BUT THIS YER’S NOO TO ME. I’M AFEARED I’LL MAKE
A TOMAHAWKING JOB OF IT. ’OWEVER, I’LL TRY!"
“LOOK-AT ’ERE, NOW; THIS YER HATTITUDE BOTHERS ME. GIVE A MAN A FAIR
SHOW, AND”
“LET’S ’AVE THE POSITION SHEEP-SHAPE.”
It appears that during the year 1864, a military
Commission sat in a back building abutting on the
Park. In order to give a tone, as it were, to the
solemnity of the occasion, a member of the rank
and file was clapped at the entrahee, which was
thus held at the point of the bayonet from 10 til*
4 o’clock. The Commission accomplished its work
in a month or so ; the report was duly relegated to
the pigeon-holes of the Department, and all things
else cleared away, except the sentry-box. Two
decades passed, and still Tommy Atkins, with his
red coat, fixed bayonet, and his twenty years of
sentry go, paced up and down the brief parade
originally allotted to him. There was nothing to
guard, and he guarded it with the same watchful
eye that a cat would guard a rat-hole. Tommy
had, in point of fact, been quite forgotten, but he
did his “dooty,” and religiously drew bissalary for
his services.
* * *
“ By Jove, he is a clever man;
I’ll tell you how I know it;
He said that by my prose he knew
That I must be a poet.”
The speaker was a fee-MAIL bard,
Who oft strives to awaken
The Muses, when his trade is slack
In butter, cheese, and bacon.
Up rose a rival rude and said,
With various needless curses,
“ He knew it from your prose-by Jove,
None know it from your verses.”
• • •
Certain people appear to hold strange
Potions as to what constitutes insanity. That
merry wag who took off his coat in a Lithgow
church, and offered to fight the priest, has even
been summed up as “insane.” This is too droll—
squaring up to a divine is held to be proof of
insanity. Why, man’s natural instinot tempts him
to try the best of three rounds with a parson—or a
policeman. The promulgation of this new theory
jeopardizes the liberty of every good subject. A
fellow only requires to develop his instinct with
an extra “ go ” of whisky, and he stands an even
tnoney chahoe of dying in a mad-house. We con-
fidently maintain the sanity of the Lithgow gen-
tleman.
Insanity’s a subject which is far beyond our ken—
A subject too abstruse for our solution;
Yet any brilliant notions which, at times, occur to
men,
Need only to be put In execution.
When certain silly “sobersides” are filled with
much amaze,
On “ proofs of madness ” greedily they fasten;
But where on earth's the “ proof ” that any fellow
has a craze
Because he takes bis coat off to a parson ?
* * *
There seems every reason to believe tLat
the gentleman who has taken up the hangman’s
billet in Victoria—nice Upjohn, resigned—is a
good all-round man. His vigour and precision, in
the flogging department are in nowise inferior
to his skill in the “ despatching ” line. When a
flagellating job is on, and the prison Governor
gives the stereotyped instructions to this artist to
do his work to the “ best of his ability," he does it.
Poor Upjohn’s delivery had been getting very
feeble and uncertain during these latter days, but
the new man—Heaven be praised!—throws such
soul into his work that the “ screams of the pri-
soner ” (quoting the newspaper critique on a re-
cent performance) “ were heard all over the gaol.”
Such a tribute to his ability, coming, too, from
one who ought to know, must be highly gratify-
ing to the new functionary. Few other great art-
ists ever get such genuine applause.
One good point about our Metropolitan
Fire Brigades is that, even if they can’t put out
fires, they can always draw up a full and true
account of any little impromptu illuminations
that chance to ooeur. We have before us now one
of these reports which is spread over about half an
acre of cream-laid paper, and which minutely
describes the time, place, and cause of a iiare-up
which occurred in Oxford-street on the 21st ult.;
traces the pedigrees of the occupant and owner
bick to the rouseabout days of the Norman Con-
quest, states the number of the cabman who gave
the alarm, what he paid for his turn-out, the age
and brands of his horse, and, after giving about a
ton of other information of a like useful nature
winds up by observing that the whole damage
consisted in the cremation of about six feet of a
garden fence, and that the merciless ravages of the
flro-fiend were quickly checked by a member of the
police who filled his helmet with water and doused
the flames. It doesn't appear that the Metropolitan
Fire Brigade ever got near the blaze at all, but the
splendid caligraphy of the report, and the exhaus-
five nature of the information supplied, make
ample amends for such a trifling matter as non-
attendance on the battle-field.
* * *
Our own St. Petersburg correspondent,
who wears galvanised iron night-shirts, and sleeps
down the same cellar as the Czar, cables out to say
that a little incident happened at the Palace on
Monday last, which, for a few moments, threw the
whole place into the greatest alarm, and frightened
skillets of perspiration out of Mr. Alexander Czar
in particular. From information received, it ap-
pears that a few lady friends had called at the
Palace, and were seated in the best parlour, wait-
ing to exchange chat with Her Imperial Highness,
and amongst the visitors was the young Prince
Ivan Vitchisvitch, aged 9, who amused himself, as
children of his years will at times, by blowing up
a paper bag which had previously contained a
pound or so of “taffy.” The bag being duly in-
flated, young Master Vitchisvitch tied the mouth
with his boot-lace, and, unnoticed by the visitors*
planted it very carefully on the chair which
was waiting to receive the lady Czar, just, as he
afterwards rather irreverently explained, to “ see
the ol’ girl kick her bloomin’ socks off.” In a few
minutes after this, Her Most Majestic Majesty
sailed into the room, smiled sweetly on all around,
remarked “ what lovely weather we’re having, now
that ‘ojus’ Krapotkine has been lumbered,” and
then flopped down in her chair like a sack of wet
guano. A terrific explosion immediately occurred
and with a frantic shriek which our correspondent
says will ring in his ears till the day of doom (or, if
showery then, till the day after), Mrs. Csar dashed
wildly down the back-yard and jumped into the
dust-bin, where her affrighted spous? Aleck was
then sleeping off the effects of a big Jamberoo he
had enjoyed the night before with Baron Tuyfel.
dock, the Duke Schmellnasti, and a few other
friends at the bottom of the palace well. “ Jump-
in’ Jezabel!” roared the startled male monarch,
‘‘what the crimson Hades is the matter with you
now?” ‘‘Matter enough,” groaned Mrs. Czar, as
she covered her head with a rotten cabbage;
“pickle my bloomin’ chignon if them dodgasted
Nihilists haven’t taken to stuffin’ their infernal
torpedoes and bombs up my very bustle.” As the
Nooze would observe, “ Our readers will perceive
that our journal is the first to publish this startling
intelligence.”
• • ■
The fashion in which the blessings of civili-
zation have been carried to the aborigines of these
colonies is still observable in Northern Queensland.
An ex-officer of the Native Police told us a lot of
queer yarns once. He was out on a “ dispersing ”
mission—about the only “ mission ” the blacks
have experience of—and he and his troopers came
upon a lot of blacks on the side of a steep ridge-
There was a lively scatter, and, by and bye, the
troopers returned on their tracks. Lying on the
hill-side was the corpse of a big blackfellow, who
had been shot dead at the outset, and crouching in
the grass beside him was a little piccaninny about
four or five years old, crying bitterly, and shaking
the dead man’s head by its thick hair. The child
didn’t know why its father wouldn't speak to it.
Ho was caught, and brought into camp by the
troopers to be civilized. After a while he was
quite reconciled to his lot, and, besides speaking
English, was able to sit a horse and go with the
troopers on their expeditions. On one of these, in
thesame neighbourhood, another “ dispersal ” was
in process, and the troopers were in hot pursuit
while Tommy remained boside the Lieutenant,
who was watching the progress of affairs. A big
blackfellow crept out from behind a stump, and
was sneaking away down a broken gully when
Tommy’s sharp eyes caught sight of him. In-
stantly he raised his infant voice, “ Misser C —,
Misser C—, look outl” he screamed, beside him-
self with eager excitement lest the quarry should
escape. “ You shoot him that fellow 1 Him b
rogue! Him uncle belonging to me! ”
- • •
Are you there, Mr. Sunday-school tract
editor ? If you are, catch on to this lot. Some
years ago, a certain well-known Victorian turfite
—a man of sin, who gambled and drank strong
drink, and carried on high-jinx in general- -was


Several of the London papers print as much
as two columns concerning the new N.Z. steamships
Arawa and Tainui—the former already afloat, the
latter on the stocks. They are each 420 feet long-,
of over 5000 tons gross, and have hulls on the
cellular-bottom plan, each vessel carrying 840 tons
of water ballast, by means of which a proper trim
and draught can be preserved throughout the
voyage as the coal is being burned out. Each is
full-rigged, and has accommodation tor 95 llrst-
class, 52 second-class, and 670 steerage passengers.
The refrigerating chambers can hold 700 tons of
meat, and the triple-expansion engines work at a
pressure of 160 lt>. to the square inch, the highest
yet reached in ocean-going steamers.
The crushed Sir ’Enry- once declared that
the East Sydney elections were carried by a flood
of Bibles and beer. It now appears that the same
spiritual combination is powerful enough to carry
the kingdom of heaven also, for recent home ad-
vices declare the rector in Hampton Lacy, War-
wickshire, England, bought the only tavern in the
village seven years ago, and hired a man to keep
it. From the sale of beer—no other drink being
sold—money enough has been made to pay the
salary of the churoh organist, and divide about
£3O among the local charities The beer sold is
guaranteed pure, and it is claimed as ene of the
results of the experiment that drunkenness is un-
known in the village. The last sentence seems a
bit of a crusher, because if the tangle won’t make
a fellow drunk what in thunder’s the use of drink-
ing it? Providing our own stingo is supplied, a
similar plan, if carried out here, would not only
pay the church organist’s screw, but run the
whole of our religious organisations put together.
Religion seems to be in a “parlous” state when our
churches have to be partly built by the exposure
of female charms at Fancy Fayres and afterwards
kept alive by the sa'e of “ wollop.” However, Dr.
Barry might try the level-headed rector of Hamp-
ton’s plan with profit, for there's a deal of good in
some things that are evil, after all.
engaged In a certain stable, but quitted that em-
ployment because he did not—to use a turfy phrase
—“comb the favourite’s tail” sufficiently. For-
tune was dead against him all through, until the
recent Cup carnival, when the fickle dame swung
round, and siting hini a smile that netted him
fiombthiag better than a thousand ptiunds. And
now, Mr. Sunday-schodl Stiggins, what do you
think that lucky young fellow did with his pile 1
Yout own charitable mind, which thinkoth etil of
none. Will, of course, declare he gaffed it aWay in a
week’s tittle, or he got as tight as David’s sow and
was eased of the lot by a girl of “ promiscuous ”
virtue in a Chinese “ drumbut you're clean out
of your reckoning this time, friend, for that honest
sport went round to the whole of his creditors,
paid every cent he owed, and, in addition, offered
a fair interest for the time he was forced to keep
his friends waiting for their money. And now,
Brother Stiggins, go thou and do likewise.
• • *
Gall for the drummer! Well, we have to
smile when you talk of gall. Why, it was rank
“ pizun Cooktown snake-juice, prussic acid, and
Roseby’s unfermented wine all messed up together,
and stirred gently round with a stick of sulphur.
You see, it happened thusly. Bagman Halfton
and Bagman Scalds were on their way to strike a
new town for Christmas orders for the first time,
and, as a matter of course, their buggy prads had
to lay back their ears and Just hump themselves
proper, in order to see who could make the new
diggings first, and thus enable their owner to rope
the fattest customers. Drummer Scalds beat his
opponent by two hours, and, putting up at the
Royal—the only hotel in the place—was shown into
the best apartments, and treated as if he were the
Shah of Persia with all his state-day “joolry” on.
When Drummer Halfton drove up, however, he—
Shear Madness.
“ TAR HERE! ON’Y A SNIP OF YER EAR, SIR.”
" FLEECE! THERE, NOW; THAT’S BUTHIN’ LIKE, AIN’T IT, NOW?”
being a mighty man on the roads— was intensely
disgusted to find that the landlord, who was
smoking on the verandah, took no more notice of
him than if he were a sundowner on the wallaby,
or a common Justice of the Peace; but the bag-
man was taken down another peg when, on inti-
mating to his host that he wished to put up there
for the day, that worthy coolly observed, “Well,
drive yer b team into th’ yard, then, if y’ do.
Y’ don't want me t’ carry thim round on my back,
do you ?” “ Devilish independent sort of district
this is,” muttered Halfton, as he drove down the
yard, unhitched his prads, and fed them in the
stable. On politely enquiring if he could be
obliged with soap and towel, &3, for awash, he
wa3 still further crumpled up ou hearing the land-
lord call out to a kitchen slavey, “ Hey, Murier,
chuck this cove a bit o’ soap, an’ let him hev a
sloosh out there in th’ wash-house." The climax,
however, was reached when, on calling for his
dinner, gentleman Halfton was bundled into a
room with the hotel servants, and told to tackle
some corned beef and cabbage. That was the last
straw that broke the drummer's back, and, clutch-
ing the astounded host by the throat, he roared,
Gorslamitt, what d’ye mean by thisd—dinsuiting
conduct? D’ye know who I am?” "Know who
you are ?” replied the other; “ yes, of course I do;
Mr. Scalds was here about two hours before you,
and he told me if his groom came along with a
buggy and pair, like you have done, I was t’ put
him up anywhere, and book th’ lott' him.” “Take
me into the bar,” exclaimed the crushed one;
"soak my head under a tap, and let me taste of
your three-star, for I have an exoeellng great pain
in the pericardial region.” The rival bagmen have
not met since; but when they do, the bombard-
ment of Foochow will only be as a Baptist picnic
by the side of the subsequent proceedings.
Commodore Et’skine’s recent little bit of
plundering is bearing fruit already “Prisoner
Johnson I" thundered one of our hired Solons to
an animated ragstaok behind the spikes on Thurs-
day week, “you are charged with having stolen four
ducks, two geeSe, and seven fowl§, the property of
Wdh Hop Sam—tiow d’ye plead?” “Yer War-
sliup,” replied the dead-beat, “ thievin’ is wholly
agin my nachUr, an’ I oouldn’t do it if I tried. I
never stole them fowls at dll, but I see’d they wos
in danger of failin’ inter th’ hands ov an alien
race, an’ so I simply established a protectorate
over them till after Krissmlss. I submits that this
wall-eyed, Jumbo-eared heathen, wid no heels on
his boots is ruled out o’ court.” “ Right,” said the
Solon, “ and you’re ruled into limbo for 14 days.”
And this is what is facetiously known as British
justice.
• • •
J ustice always whirls in equal measure—
except, of course, on extraordinary occasions,
when it is not desirable that she should coniine
herself to a strict attention to the whirling busi-
ness. One of these oocasions seems to have oc-
curred at Goulburn, on the 29th ultimo, when
Mesac Thonlas, Lord Bishop of Goulburn, toed the
Police Court soratoh to answer to a charge of
putting on nasty “flash” by trotting his “ker-
ridge” round the street corners. John Boyd, in-
spector of nuisances, and Richard Sasse, a labourer,
distinctly swore they were standing at a spot
called Salvation Corner at 11 o’olook, and his lord-
ship turned the plaoe at a swinging trot. Glancing
at the other side of the picture, we And that his
lordship just as distinctly swore that he pulled up
and walked round the turning. Putting it mildly,
someone, at this stage of the proceedings, must
have committed pure, unadulterated perjury.
This, however, is but a mere trifle compared to the
fant that, after hearing the evidenoe pro et con.,
the Police Magistrate blandly remarked that for
some reason or another the council was not repre-
sented by their solicitor, and a technical objection
arose through the inspector having failed to prove
the by-laws, but in this case they had a witness
proving a different offence, if any existed.
After which he carefully dismissed the case, and
My Lord Mesac left the court without the slightest
stain on his spotless character. Barely had his
lordship skipped, however, before a poor lay
devil, named William Lansdown, was charged with
trotting round another corner. Only one witness,
Inspector Boyd, swore to the trot, and the defen-
dant, in a clear, straight-forward manner, refuted
the charge in toto. “ For some reason or another,”
however, the counoil made no mistake this time,
and the P.M., after luctdly pointing out that the
Inspector had “ deposed to an offence being com-
mitted and the defendant did not disprove the
statement, therefore a penalty of ss. and 4s. lOd.
costs would be inflicted.” This is the kind of thing
that makes us sick when our blatant windbags bob
up and prate of the sacredness of British Justice.
and, in face of cases like the above, it takes a heap
of talk to make any sane man believe there is not
one law for the rich, and quite another—and a far
rougher one—for the “ beastly pooah.”
• a a
Quite a valuable addition to the collective
municipal wisdom of the colony has just been
made in a town up North, where the ranks of the
worthy aldermen have been materially increased
by the presence of a party who hails from the
resthetio land of Limburger cheese, lager beer, and
Bologna “sassidge.” This gentleman from Ger-
many, by the way, is a sort of Teutonic Sir Boyle
Roche, and if he is only half as funny in the
Counoil as he is outside of it, no nigger Minstrel
crowd need bver hope to clekr their eX’S in that
town while a municipal meet 19 on. Alderman
Stoefel happens to be the proud possessor of a
small fai-nl, consisting of a oockatoo fence and a
sick hen, a miles oiit of tdwn, and just by way
of preventing trduble with trespassers he has
chalked the following warning on his fence:—
“Notis.—Efry persons wanting to go through this
land will blease to go roundt itl” A few weeks
ago, an unregistered dog belonging to him was
shot, and the afflicted owner happening to come
along, and, seeing his canine pet with a neat little
bullet-hole drilled plumb through its forehead ex-
claimed : “ Gottsdonnerundblitzen I I vould fc
sooner hev find a pounat dan I lo9e dat dam dorg.
Herr Jel budtitvas looky for Carlo dat plastidt
pullet didn’t go two inches lower. Af it didt, it
vouldt hev ruined his eyesight for shure.” Mr.
Stoefel also runs a grocery, and it is related that
having got into a wordy war one day owing to a
customer wanting to pay twice over for the one
article, or some other aggravation of the sort, the
man from the Vaterland ordered the buyer to
hump himself off the premises altogether. And
on the party declining to move, the irate foreigner
roared, “Here, you gleares oudt ov mine shop
queek, or by tarn ov you don’t I pooty soon gets a
man that vill. I hev none ov my tamdt nonsense
aboudt you.” This seems healthy for the favoured
municipality, and we are now gasping with anxiety
to read Herr Stoefel’s maiden speech on “dem
logal oessbits.”
• • •
This was one for his reverence’s nob, if you
like : A few days ago, a Gundagai squatter
trooped into a certain store just as a Southern
clergyman was debating witn himself whether
he’d order a case of fine old port at 655. a dozen, or
go in for a trunkful of nastier stuff at one-tenth of
the price—the said liquor, of course, being in-
tended for sacramental purposes only. Turning
to the squatter, the man of God asked what he had
bettor do. “ Do," said the other; “ why, go in for
good stuff always, no matter what it costs you.’>
“ Ah, yes,” sighed his reverence, “ it’s mighty easy
for you to talk like that, because when the bill
comes in all you have to do is to shear your sheep
and pay it.” “ Exactly so," replied the wool king>
“but that’s precisely the spot where you have the
bulge on me, for, while I can only lift one clip a
year, you can shear your flock every Sunday.”
After which the man of God began to tell a yarn
about an uncle of his that had a “ bull-tarrier
purp” that could crack cocoa-nuts with his back
teeth, and eventually the conversation settled
down into a more satisfactory and agreeable level
for all the speakers.
• • •
Up to the present time, want of Dffice
accommodation and the excessively high price
charged for Scotch pies prevented the Noozk
from being able to contradict one half their tele-
graphic matter in the same issue as it appeared,
but, now that Alfred is safely located in the new
“ primisis,” and luncheon arrangements have been
completed with the “ Flying Scud ” hash-house
round the corner, he hopes to be in a position to
enable him to contradict the whole of his veraciou 8
news at least a day before it is published. One
anecdote will suffice to show the necessity
of this. A few days ago a certain land auctioneer,
who hates lying worse than a Rum reporter hates
soap, was told by a Pitt-street lawyer that Ezekiel
Baker had just been elected for Carcoar. “Are
you sure that’s true?” enquired the truth-loving
saleman. “ True ?” exolaimed the other, “ why,
it’s in the Even Nooze.” “ Umph!” grunted the
other; “then I’d lay a roast turkey to a shin o’
beef the thing's a lie.” Next day the two met
again at luncheon, and the limb of the law exult-
ingly shouted: “Ah, ah I Mr. Going-going-gone,
y’ see I was right, Ezekiel—Baker was elected,
after all.” “Well, if It was true,” replied the dis-
gusted auctioneer, “ what th’ devil did they want
t put it in the Even Nooze for ?” No one present
seemed to know, and so the conversation ended,
• • •
All barbers are essentially sporting cusses,
but the chin-raspers of Melbourne are in this
respect a touch above all their brethren this side
of the equinoctial line. And a few of the sporting
tonsorlal artists also love a beer at times. In point
of fact, it is said that a barber has six excuses for
drinking—viz., the visit of a customer, the absence
of a customer, thirst existing, thirst to come, the
goodness of the ;wna or any other excuse their
fertile mind can thftnk of. However, Malua won
the Cup, and on the morning after the flutter a
Sydney legislator calleSlN'n to the lather emporium
of a man who on the previous day held the son of
St. Albans for a century. Being a cool hand, th e
man from Sydney, making all allowance for the
festivity of the times, didn’t in the least mind the
tonsorlal artist tying the Argus round his neck>
giving him a towel to read, and then rather jerki-
tavily enquiring “Doutcher fine sh’lubrity’f ash-
musphere increash ash fo’ great plantesh ’proaoh
er pcrrer-heel-yun ?" Neither was the visitor very
much alarmed when the professor shoved the
shaving-brush in his mouth and began to lather
his face with the lighted end of a cigar; but when
the lucky backer of Malua grabbed hold of a razor
and commenced crawling up on the baok of his
customer's chair, in order, as he explained, to get
out of the reach of the pink-headed goanners that
were swarming about and spitting sulphur squirts
all round the floor, the patient gave one dart out
of the chair, and then lit out of that shop in some-
thing less than one-tenth of the time the Cup was
won in. He could stand a great deal from a barber,
but he drew the line at “Goanners.”


Miss Blsie Stanley-Hall.
Elsie Maude Stanley-Hall, whose por-
trait adorns our frout page, and who is
better known as little Elsie, was born in
Toowoomba (Queensland) on June 22, 1877,
so that she is not yet half-past seven. From
earliest infaney she showed a marvellous
aptitude foe rnusie, spelling out on the piano,
even before she could walk, her llrst little
melody, “Nelly Bly.” On her second birth-
day she played at a little tea-party the
melodies of “Home, Sweet Home,” “Nelly
Bly,” and “Happy Band”—little tunes
which her mother had frequently used as
lullabies. Before she had attained ttfe
dignity of three years, she played “Rous-
seau’s Dream,” whilst a quartette sang the
melody and parts. She rapidly increased her
repertoire, playing everything she heard
wnich took her fancy, but not receiving a* y
instruction until she was five years of age,
when her mother commenced giving her
regular lessons, in July, 1883, the child was
placed under the care of the talented and
popular pianist, Madame Charbonnet-Keller-
mann, who fluds in this gifted little thing
the promise of a splendid musical future.
Indeed she is Madame’s very own pupil, as
can be seen by her already partially-formed
style. A few weeks ago, the child was out
spending a musical evening, and upon a lady
being asked to sing, the baby, much to
everybody’s astonishment, volunteered to
act as accornpauist. The company smiled
dubiously, but there was no hesitation in the
tirm little footstep as she inarched across
the room and took her place at the piano.
As soon as the tiny fingers started the sym-
phony, everybody was convinced that they
well knew what they about; and the
song was accompanied in a manner which
was truly marvellous, the voice being fol-
lowed with a tact so often lacking in the
majority of accompanists. And tuis was
done at sight; indeed, her reading at sight
is wonderful. She is small for her age, and
has a bright, intelligent faoe. The portrait
is taken from a splendid photograph from
the studio of Mr. .1. A. Newman of Oxford-
street.
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
M
%
%
9
isas
r«
je-' , -y r \
1
a
zSr2s*
NVA
LU
yj.
eri n c
> f • ***U
p *
to
iOM
ss
°.M
u
|W
crv
e ss
U
Ce
FMJ
fbli
n?
“^SPECIALLY*
APTED FOR T
Colonies?
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Corner of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing.rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUSSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With II earthrugs to match.
CORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS TN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
OXYG EN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne.
THE only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion,
Nervousnsss, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Loss of
Power, Mental and Physical Depression, Decline,
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. J3F“ CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Dr
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
un. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosnhodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
J. MASSEY, Jun.,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney. 9th December, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
plies.—tenders are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tender*
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated. \
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Nature of Works and Supplies
Dates to which
Tenders can be
received a t
this office.
Pumping Machinery, new Grav-
ing Dock at Cockatoo Island
Repairs, &c,, Courthouse, Mer-
riwa
F. A. WRIGHT.
Christmas Month
at
THC ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADF,
THERE is no month of the year we hail with
greater pleasure than Christmas month, the
busiest of all months. We are generally kept busy
throughout the year, enjoying, as we do, a vast
city, suburban, and country connection ; but
Christmas month invariaoly comes and goes with
the greatest satisfaction. We always endeavour
to carry through something special at this time of
the year, bringing forward our NEW GOODS, and
making an unusually attractive display.
As everything is marked in plain figures at the
lowest net cash price, visitors feel a pleasure in
coming to take a walk through our Showrooms.
OUR PRICES
THIS CHRISTMAS SEASON,
as we have already stated, are lower than they
have ever been in former years, and to one and all
we issue our Christmas invitation.
COME! Como, if only to pay a visit of inspec-
tion.
If, through living at a distance, you find it in-
convenient to come, write for a copy wf our 32-
pago Illustrated Catalogue, containing House-
furnishing Estimates and lists of reduced prices.
AS CHRISTMAS WEEK APPROACHES
we shall be exceedingly busy, and it is our general
request that orders, particularly those from the
country, be seDt in early, in order to prevent the
possibility of disappointment.
Tou have only to write for a copy of our book-
and it will be sent post free to your address.
CAMPBELL BROTHEHS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
426 George-street, Sydney, next the Royal Hotel
’
Coo/a/ta Wines,
VERY CHOICE, FOR CHRISTMAS.
HOCK, Muscat Sherry, Claret, Burgundy, and.
Port. Also, at the Hodcga, the above
Wines in quart jars. Jars allowed lor when re-
turned.
John A. Wilkinson,
3TAV, GEORGE STREE".
THE BIG LAND SALE,
Mext Saturday,
IBE EEEEHDAIE ESTATE,
196 ACHES,
Subdivided into Lots, having frontages up to 198 feet,
having depths up to 330 feet.
WATKIN and WATKIN
Sell, NEXT SATURDAY, on the Estate, at 3 p.m.,
The Greendale Estate !
The Best Soil within the same distance of Manly is on Greendale.
The Finest Sites for Nurseries within 50 miles of Sydney
is on Greendale.
The Best Drive out of Manly is through and past the Greendale
Estate.
The new metalled road intersects the estate.
The Title is under Torrens’ Act.
The Terms : £3 per lot deposit; balance by 36 equal monthly
payments, without interest.
Every Lot Put Up Will Be Sold.
Such an opportunity to buy land in the Suburbs of the only
fashionable watering place c?„nnot occur again.
Boxing Day, 26th December.
AUCTION SALE, ON THE GROUND.
BOY3D «feT 3ES.X^Q-
Will Sell by Public, Auction, the remainder of that desirable
property, known as
ROSEBERRY PARK!
forming pa.rt of the Township of Biverstone.
|jgr Terms—£l per ac re deposit, balance extending over 2or 3 years. NO INTEREST.
GRAND BUILDING SITES ON MAIN RO AD 1
SPI ,endid garden and farm BLOCKS I
THE LAND HAS BEEN GRAZED, AND IS LIGHTLY TIMBERED I
137“ Sper dal train at 8.50 a.m. Free Tickets. Luncheon provided.
Farmers, Gardej iers, Storekeepers, Speculative Builders, and others, will find this a
grand opportunity to obtain large blocks of land at a nominal prioe. No Reserve.
PLANS, &o„
BOYD & KING, Auctioneers, 96 Pitt-street.
3,4, and 5-Acre Blocks!
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
COCHME MO COM,
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-streeti,
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEO ROE-STREET..
HIGGS-HTS
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA ;
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
Money loans
GRANTED at MODERATE INTEREST on
FURNITURE (without possession), DEEDS, BOND’
CEhTIFIOATES, SHABEii, or other Securities,
Payable to Suit Convenience,
No Deductions made from Amount Required**
which will be paid in lull within Twelve Hours ol
Application.
BILLS DISCOUNTED,
MONT DE PiEi’fi, CENTRAL LOAN OFFICE,
98 CastljKreagk Street
(Two doors South of King-street).


Messrs. Cameron, Bros., and Co.’s Mam-
moth Tobacco Pactory.
Many years ago, the senior partner of Messrs.
Cameron, Bros., and Co. visited Australia in order
that he might personally study the tastes and re-
quirements of the tobacco consumers of this
country, with a view of further extending, by
more judicious catering, the then growing busi-
ness with his firm’s large Virginia factories; and
although the result of his visit associated the
name of Cameron with the best brands of tobacco
throughout the Australian world, the Cameron
Brothers’ energy did not cease with this achieve-
ment of success. In 1873 they determined to trans-
Messrs. Cameron, Bros., and Co.’s Mammoth Tobacco Factory.
plant a portion of their labour and capital from
Virginia, and invest the same among the people
who for so many years previous patronised their
industry. And the subject of our to-day s sketch
is the result of their efforts in New South Wales.
This great factory, employing over 300 workmen,
now distributes its famous brands throughout the
length and breadth of New South Wales; and,
were it not for our intercolonial blockade lines,
our sister colonies would to a large extent enjoy
the benefit of its productions. Highly glowing
accounts are frequently given of industries be-
vond the limits of New South Wales, and seldom
do the public hear of the manufactures of our
colony that deserve more than a passing notice.
The industry now under review furnishes a tell-
ing evidence of the strides this colony is making
in its manufacturing. One of Nature s greatest
boons to man is its tobacco. Wits have built their
brightest reputations upon Its pleasures, while
even the sober philosopher or historian has not
hesitated to unburden his sobriety and drop the
gravity of his pen under the genial influence of
the pipe. The manufactory of Messrs. Cameron
Bros, ani Co. is replete with all the latest ap-
pliances for the manipulation of the raw material,
and, in its entirety, shows wonderfully accurate
powers of genius and a knowledge of combined
skill only to be gained by much experience and a
long extended series of careful and costly experi-
ments highly creditable to the manufacturers.
The entire process is one of the most ingenious
and interesting to be seen in any part of the
world. It has been chiefly by watching the finer
points in manufacturing, allied to keen foresight
and enterprise, that they have gained their present
foothold. The capital required in working this
business is enormous. The number of hands em-
ployed necessitates an outlay in the matter of
wages alone of many hundreds per week. That
their labours here have been most liberally re-
warded and appreciated is proven by the universal
publio patronage extended to them, and it only re
mains in this place to give a areneral idea of the
manufacturing process. The first object to attract
the visitor’s attention on entering the imposing
building at Liverpool and Pitt streets will be the
commodious offices and spacious sample rooms
adjoining. The other portions of the ground floor
being taken up with the engineers’ departments,
containing a 30 h.p. engine and three large Cornish
boilers, and a box factory replete with every ap-
pliance for making the various boxes in which the
tobacco is finally packed. To give in detail a full
description of the various departments would
necessitate more space than we have at disposal.
Suffice it to mention that the Virginia leaf and
strip tobacco (which, by the way, comes not from
agents, but is supplied by their head establishments
in Virginia) is imported packed in hogsheads, hav-
ing been thoroughly cured in their Virginia fac-
tories. The tobacco, on arrival at the Sydney
house, is taken to the sorting-room and moistened,
then carefully classified; after which the leaf is
is Bent into the “Stemmery,” where it is divested
of its stem or stalk, thence into another depart-
ment, the “Casing-room,” to receive its flavour-
ing. After this treatment, the tobacco is placed
upon swinging air-dryers to remove all fermenting
tendencies, and prepare it for the next process of
“ humouring,” all of which operations require the
careful superintendance of practised hands and
managers who have served long apprenticeships
to the business in their Virginia factories. Recog-
nising as they do that improved machinery and
improved processes and treatment enhance the
quality of the product, the firm has supplied its
factories throughout with the most approved
appliances and methods of treatment. After the
tobacco has been subjected to a satisfactory
" ordering ” test, the portion intended and pre-
pared for Negrohead and Twists is sent into the
Twist-room. Here is a small army of men, and
the rapidity and deftness of the workmen at this
employment are really surprising. The remaining
portion prepared for “lump” and “fancies” is
sent into the Lump-room, where a large number
of girls are busily engaged at rows of benches
in the exercise of cleverly manipulating the plant
into various and innumerable styles, weights,
and sizes of “ figs ” and “ plugs ” known as “ Caven-
dish ” and “ Aromatics.” After having undergone
the above processes, which are completed chiefly
by hand-work, the twists, lumps, and fancies are
packed in large drawing boxes and sent into the
press-room. Here commences the mechanical part
lof the process. This room is filled with hydraulic
* presses of all sizes and shapes, with pressing capa-
city ranging from 100 tons to 3000 tong; band-screws
of various sizes and designs, iron-preparers, iron-
flnishers with their companion carriages innumer-
able, bewildering masses of belts, pulleys, scales,
hydraulic pumps of various patterns, and other
implements required to perfect the work meet the
eye at every turn, while the whirl of machinery
tends to confuse the visitor. In this department
the various styles and grades of tobacco are sub-
jected to such varied and intricate treatment, that
anything like a lucid description of same is beyond
our power, as is the whole of this great com-
bination of skill, judgment, and mechanism,
from the “sorting” department (where the large
piles of raw material in initial stages of pre-
paration present the appearance of enormous ant-
hills) to the foreman’s table in the press-room,
where the beautiful and symmetrically finished
tobacco is being “ tagged’’—that is, each "fig”
and “plug” receiving a small "enamelled” paper
or tin symbol and name of the brand under which
it is sold. There have been so many imitations of
Messrs. CJ. B. and Oo.'s productions, that they find
it necessary to adopt this means of protecting
themselves and the public against deception. The
whole, including the artistio stenciling and label-
ing of the boxes, must be seen to be appreciated;
and the firm, unlike most other manufacturers, do
not profess to have any secrets about their manu-
factory, and always gladly welcome with Vir-
ginian courtesy any visitor who is sufficiently
interested in the industry to look over their estab-
-1 iishment. The excellence of their tobaccos is
I chielly attributed to their long experience in the
business, and the unceasing care they take from
the selection of the best crops of leaf to the box-
ing of the manufactured artiole. Since 1843, this
firm has been manufacturing especially for th(*
1 Australian trade.,


Puck, ’B5. Sixpen’orth of fua and frolic!
Puck Almanac, 'B5, 6d, Ready loth December I
Something for Parents to Think Over.
We feel it our duty to write you what the Cuti-
cura Remedies have done for our little boy, who
has been terribly afflicted with salt rheum, scro-
fula, and erysipelas ever since he was born, and
nothin? we could give him helped him until we
tried Ccticura, which, after using quite a
quantity, began to help and gradually cured him,
until he is now as fair as any child. His body waa
completely covered, and his face and hands swelled
very badly. We had no comfort with him; it was
so much work to take care of him, and he suffered
so. We began to treat him when he was 18 months
old, giving him at first 10 drops of the Cuticura
Resolvent at a time, bathing in hot water and
Cuticura Soap, and applying Cuticura carefully
to the entire body. He is now 3)4 years old, and is
perfectly well. We have not written before be-
cause we thought it might appear again; but it
has not, and we are very thankful. MR. and MRS#
EVERETT STEBBINS, Belcbertown, Mats.
The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
We shaU be glad to have this index petted up by
secretaries of racing clubs and managers of
sporting events in general .l
RACING.
Victoria Amateur T.C December 26.
A.J.C. (Midsummer) December 36.
Wailsend J.C December 26, 27.
Moonee Valley (V.) December 27.
Canterbury Park R.C December 27.
Rosehill R.C. December 27.
TattersaU’s Club (Annual) January 1.
V .R.C. Summer Meeting. January 1.
onj L' January 1, 6.
Sydney T.C. January 22.
Lawrence J.C January 26.
Burrowa J.C February 6, 6.
Cootamundra T.C February 11,12.
Tasmanian R.C. (Summer) February 11,12,13.
Tasmanian R.C February 18,19.
Murrumburrah T.C. (Annual) February 18,19.
V.R.C. Autumn Meeting Feb. 28. March 6. 7.
Hawkesbury R.C March 26, 28.
AQUATICS.
Glebe R.C. Regatta December 13.
Gardiner Challenge Cup December 20.
Snnil s Biy Regatta January
Anniversary Regatta January 26.
Hanian v. Clifford February 7.
Clifford v. Beach February 28.
Beach v. Hanian Maroh 28.
Hanian v. Clifford (if Clifford beat Beach)... .April 18.
Newcastle Regatta January 1
lutereolonial 8-Oar Race April
ATHLETICS
Riverine Athletic Club Sports, Hay Race-
xr o December 26, 27.
N.S.W. Highland Gathering, Sydney January 1.
SPORTING AND ATHLETIC MEMS
The World advises Hanlan to summer in
New Zealand.
Another American cricket team will visit
England next year.
Old Harry Sellars, the veteran pug., has
gone Into the Melbourne Benevolent Asylum.
Lord Gussy should have been umpire at
the recent Balmain regatta. He is such an autho-
rity on fouls.
The owner of St. Gatien won £BO,OOO by
his horse’s wonderful victory in the Cesarewitch
with Bst. 71b. up.
For the junior scullers’ race at the Glebe
regatta. G.R.C. will be represented by G. Durrell,
N.S.R.C. by Connolly, S.K.C. by Tiley, and B.R.C.
by A. Frazer.
The Wellington (N.Z.) Evening Press
says Mr. Redwood has challenged Mr. Pilbrow to
run Welcome Jack against Black Rose for £lOOO, in
three months’ time.
A light skiff race has been arranged to
come off on the Nepean on 3rd January, between
William Rowe, of Penrith, and James Kennedy, of
Shoalhuven, for £5O a side.
Mr. George Watson, the well-known New
Zealand cricketer, died on November 32, after a
very short illness. Ho represented Canterbury in
all principal matehes for many years past.
The latest estimate concerning cyclers an-
nounces that there are 300,000 cyolists in England
alone, and the capital invested in the manufacture
of machines is about £3,000,000, employing between
0000 aud 10,000 men.
At Melbourne, on Saturday last, the prin-
cipal event at the bicycle SDorts held in connection
with the Melbourne Sports Depot, the three-mile
handicap, fell an easy victory to F. H. Shackleford
(35 yards), with. H. C. Bagot (330 yards) second. F.
and H. R. Stokes started from scratch.
John Roberts, junr., has offered to play
W. Cook for the billiard championship under the
usual conditions. He will give W. Cook 1000 in
10,000, spot-stroke barred, on an ordinary table for
£lOO or £3OO a side, and play him 51 or 101 games at
pyramids, even, for the same stake.
A r thur Hancock, the crack English walker,
duly arrived in Australia by the John Elder, and
has lost no time in issuing the following challenge:
—“I am prepared to walk any man in Australia 50
miles for from £lOO to £2OO a-side, match to come
off in six weeks from date of signing articles.”
We have received a copy of the “New
South Wales Sporting Annual,” edited by Mr. H. P.
Gilbert. The little volume, published at Is. 6d.,
gives a review and statistics for the past season on
cricket, football, aquatics, lacrosse, bicycling, and
athletics, and should prove of interest to all classes
of amateur athletes.
At Wellington, N.Z., on 17th November,
Pettengeil and Perry fought with soft gloves for
£lOO, at the Theatre Koval. Pettengeil took the
lead from the first round, and finished the fourth
and the fight with a right-hander on Perry’s jaw.
Pettengeil weighed list. 81b., and stood sft. B%in.,
while Perry weighed list. 41b., and stood sft. Tin.
A match between the Carlingford and
University Clubs was commenced on the Associa-
tion around on Saturday last, when the ’Varsity
eleven held the wicket the whole afternoon, and
put together 359 runs. Ten out of the eleven bats-
men ran into double figures, Pope taking the cake
with a well compiled 118. The match will be con-
cluded next Saturday.
The only bit of startling news anent the
Beach-cur»i-Hanlan-cum-Clifford matches, wo clip
from the Rum: —"The Dapto people aro confident
Beach will win the double.” A crusher this for
Hanlan aud Cliflord 1 By the way, the " Alien ”
sort of gave himself away—or rather his paner—
when he snapped so greedily at the tempting little
bait we laid. But there’s no accounting for the
vagaries of a new chum.
The luckiest man on the turf is Mr. Ham-
mond, the English owner who by St. Gatien’s
success in the Cesarewitch pocketed between
£OO,OOO and £BO,OOO, and who by Florence’s win in
the Cambridgeshire robbed the “ bookies ” of
£35,000. This year he has run a dead heat for the
Derby, and won the Manchester Cup, the Ascot
Gold Vase, the Baden Baden Grand Prize, and
many other less important events.
At the recent Christchurch (N.Z.) meeting
the large sum of £31,507 passed through the Total-
isator. On the first day the amount was £8053;
second day, £11,423 ; third day, £11,493. And
amongst the dividends were sueh plums as £70105.,
£54 13s. od.. £54 9s„ £42135., £lO 17s. 6d., and £l2 7s.
6d.—each for the investment of £l. We should
very much like the pleasure of giving the Totalisa-
tor a hearty welcome into New South Wales
In a game of pyramids between the Eng-
lish billiardists, D Richards and W. J. Peali, the
former fairly out-did himself, and his performance
must certainly rank us the most extraordinary
ever witnessed in the game, as he won four games
right off without his opponent taking a ball.
Richards won the first by 9 to love (break of 9), the
second 11 to love (break of 10), the third by 9 to
owes 1 (break of 9), and the fourth by 11 to love
(break of 11).
A London sporting writer has had “a pri-
vate letter from Sydney,” in which he says: “ I
gather that Hanlan was frightened out of his race
with Beach. He had a severe nervous shook.
After narrowly escaping being run down by one
of the heavy lumbering steamers that followed
the race, he for the moment collapsed, and when
he partially recovered himself, and got away on
his boat, it was too late. He will make an exhibi-
tion of Beach the next time they meet.”
Johnny Crapaud is entering the lists of
football with perfidious Albion. A team repre-
senting the Paris football club, playing Rugby
eB 'k^ lll vleit En^lan d in January. The
wJ^SfoV? 16 ]? *i el °K' somewhat novices at the game,
5? first-class team will be met during their
tour iJ ,ut in all probability they will
f^°5 u -^ er a : fifteen of the Marlborough Nomads
?? Decembe r 30, whilst one or two other
fh. cStorhSa?s plate far, “ durin *
William Farnan, the Cabbage Garden
cuts up rather rough at the newspaper re-
wnVf^°^ 1 h bout 7 lth ? >^ er Newton, and offers to
. 0 can knock Peter out in four Queens-
berry rounds, or, rather, three Queensberry’s and
wm<° cludei \£ f f PP r minutes. We are afraid
William is setting himself a task somewhat above
No doubt Farnan’s half-arm body
nfiohf^ 8 v. are Beve re. but Peter is a most aocom-
m nfH d M o »n? r ’i? n i lf he went into the ring deter-
JuiPS *? act all through on the saving suit, and
dld PPj himself out, we don’t think Farnan
could do so.
Two somewhat venerable “pugs,” Jemmy
? u Ji’ and Will Atkins, ex-champion
i T J *“ iif nt-weight, recently had a mill at Notting-
„ ar P', Rawlins, who is forty-seven years of age,
scaled 9st., while Atkins, who is two years older,
flMrtP«? d exactl J leBS than his opponent. The
?i r „ S Ki thr roun(ls wer e fought without any appre-
ciable advantage being gained by either man. In
moV « rc H n< L’ however. Atkins took a decided
load, and finally brought his man to “ grass ” with
a seaY^h5 ea Y^hl 0 w on the jaw. From this point to the
the fight Atkins had matters pretty much
his own way, and was finally declared the winner
atter one hour and twenty-three minutes’ fighting.
In re the dispute in Melbourne between
Matteraon and Edwards with regard to the course
rowed ou the Albert Park Lake, on sth November.
Edwards rowed over the course on the 29th, and
the stakes were duly handed over to him. It was
not to be_ expected that Matterson would take a
second trip to Victoria after fairly winning the
prize in the first instance: and as to Edwards offer-
ing to add money, and make a regular match of it,
he must have had a shrewd idea that the Clarence
Kiver lad would not accept, or he would not have
been quite so anxious to shovel any more doubloons
into _ Matter-son’s pocket. We wonder if Bobby
biushed when the prize was handed over to him.
The all-comers’ raoe in connection with
the recent Balmain regatta was re-rowed on
Saturday last, when Pearce made an easy win
Messenger second, and Matterson third. Matter-
son must be stale after going through such an
amount of training, and, if he has any idea of
carrying out the rather premature prophecies
made by the sporting Press with respect to his
future career in a shell, we would advise him to
take a lengthened period of rest. Not that we
think his staleness had anything to do with the re-
sult on Saturday last, for, leaving the rough
water out of the question, there cannot be much
doubt he is not yet up to Pearce’s calibre, given
the Double Bay man is in anything like condition.
Says London Bell’s Life:—“Among the
recent visitors to London is Mr. Harrison, of Vic-
toria, who in the colonies is termed the “ father of
the Victorian game.” This gentleman is leaving
no stone unturned to have the laws of the Rugby,
Association, and Victorian games assimilated, so
that, as in oricket, one universal code would be
used in all parts of the globe. Our knowledge of
the Australian game is slight. We cannot, how-
ever, fail to perceive that it contains many good
points. Notwithstanding this, we fear Mr. Harri-
son, is engaged on an almost hopeless task, when
he endeavours to persuade the ruling powers of
two such time-honoured institutions as the Rugby
Union and the Football Association to abandon
their popular rules in favour ol’ a comparatively
new code.”
W. G. George, the champion English
amateur, failed, on Oct. 17, in his attempt to beat
Deerfoot’s alleged record of 11 miles 970 yards.
George went off at a oapital pace, covering his
first mile in 4min. 50 2-6 sec., but, as he thought that
he lost upon the last occasion through miking too
much use of his ppwers at the outset, he steadied
down after this, hisj second mile occupying smin
12sec. The next three were reeled off with mar-
vellous regularity, the third occupying smin. 10
3-ssec., and the fourth and fifth smin. lOsec. ex-
actly. After this ho gradually got slower, the
miles occupying smln. 13 3-ssee„ smin. 17 l-sseo.,
smin. 18 3-ssec., and smin. 33 l-ssec. respectively;
and, after nine miles had been run in 46min. 48
2-5 sec., he found he was so far behind his previous
record that he thought it was useless to persevere,
and after running another furlong he stopped.
The Glebe Rowing Club people have been
working like niggers to bring their annual regatta
—which eventuates next Saturday—up to the
usual standard. The entries were too numerous
to allow of all the competitors starting on the
eventful day, and heats innumerable have been
rowed off during the past couple of weeks. On
Saturday last, for the maiden double-sculls, J. Cox
and M’Gregoi defeated G. Macready and F. Icker-
son; and, for the trial fours, E. Boyle, Beegling.
Fairweathor, and H, Cox won the first heat;
the second heat fell to the boat manned by
W. Wilson, Curnow, A Ickerson, and F. Williams;
and M’Diarmid, Doutty, Robertson, and Farron
proved the best mon in the third heat. For next
Saturday afternoon, the Quondong has been en-
gaged l'nr flagship, and a smaller boat will follow
the races, to carry the umpire and ship as many
more as feel inclined to part a modest “robert”
for the luxury. Soft stuff will be on rap for the
softer half, and—bend low. gentle reader, lest the
Rum man should bo prowling around-something
harder will be on hand for the stern remainder.
The Gardiner Cup race in connection with
the New South Wales Rowing Association, to come
off on December 20, promises to be a first-class-
procession, with the Sydneyites to the fore. There
must be a sorew loose amongst our amateur oars-
men when only a Sydney Rowing Club crew—
Messrs. Moppett, J. E. H. Kennedy, Brodie, and
C. A. Bros, and a so-called North Shore, but actually
a Sydney-citm-North Shore crew, Messrs. Hart,
Creswell, Bourke, and Thomson—enter for such a
trophy. While a powerful club like the Mercan-
tile continues at loggerheads with the Rowing
Association, affairs cannot be expected to take a
change for the better, and, as there seems no show
of the old feud being healed up, we would strongly
advocate—in the interests of amateur rowing—
that the Rowing Association, a body which it must
be confessed has never proved a success, be
knocked on the head and a hew association formed
under an entirely different constitution. Without
going into the right or wrong of tho action taken
by the Mercantiles with regard to the Association,
it is very certain that, so long as the club stands
out of events rowed under the auspices of ttie
Association, so long will they be shorn of interest,
except to the oarsmen who adorn their sideboards
with pots won by mere “walkovers.”
The Balmain regatta committee, by rea-
son of their vacillating in the matter or awarding
the 24-footers' prize at their recent regatta, have
added another nail to tho coin n of the fast-expiring
sport of open-boat racing. The Victor was on
her wrong leg when she threw the Dreamland up
into the wind, and should have been disqualified;
but, as the committee did not take such action,
Mr. Creagh is, without doubt, entitled to the prize,
for if his non-observance of the rule of the road
was not of sufficient moment to merit disqualifica-
tion, it seemed pretty rough on him to order tne
race to be sailed over again, more especially as
the amateurs who competed against him acknow-
ledged the sailing did not affect the result of th
race. The bungle of the umpire in deciding to
have the race re-sailed only led further into the
mire. The Dreamland and Lottie, putin an appear-
ance on Saturday last, but they were not started,
and up to tho time of our going to press, we had not
heard how the Balmainiacs intended to wriggle
out of the difficulty. l’Lat Mr. Creagh will even-
tually come out on the right side of the squabble,
there cannot be two opinions; and we think the
Balmain committee will show a little of the sense
they have gone to such trouble to show they are
wanting in, if they put a good lace on the matter,
and hand Mr. Creagh his prize.
A commercial depression has set in in
England. One-sixth of the Lancashire looms have
Shopped work, and out of 44 spinning companies
which took stock during September, 39 were un-
khl© to declare any dividend. A Tory paper says:
Even those who are so fortunate as to be at
work have to be content with starvation wages,
a yd we do not hesitate to affirm that the amount
of human misery now existing in Lancashire has
never been equalled since the time of the Ameri-
can civil war. In the iron trade, the following
figures express the condition of affairs: 1881, 553
furnaces ; 1883, 565; 1883, 510 ; September, 1884,
■ Agriculture fares no better. After one of
the finest harvests known, pigs are actually being
9? wheat; that is found to pay better than to
sell the grain at a loss of Bs. or 10s. a quarter.”
.Thus while hundreds of thousands of English men,
women, and children lack bread, pigs are being fed
on wheat. This is the fruit of social arrange-
ments, which we are told it is wioked and stupid
to desire to change. It pays better to feed pigs
than the poor 1 Does it ? What would God say ?
A couple of Greeks who had found, while
ploughing in their own country, two very old
statues, and had surreptitiously brought them to
England for sale, were arrested the other day
while trying to sell the statues at Stepney, whither
they had ‘hawked” them in a four-wheeled cab.
Just think of it! The statues of Ares (the god of
War) and Aphrodite (the goddess of Love) carted
i n a conveyance like that which meets our
North Shore ferry-boat! It is well for these two
impious Greeks tnat Pan has been dead for many
a e a y- *n the old times, when there was nectar
still on draught on Olympus, and Arcadian nymphs
played hide-and-seek with mortals in the groves,
such conduct would have met with prompt and
ingenious retribution. The thieves would have
been turned into magpies or foxes, metamorphosed
into vegetables, or sent mad. Gadflies would have
pursued them up and down the earth; the Pates
would have been at their heels, whipping them on
through a desperate series of afflictions, until they
sought headlong death off some lonian cliff or
were transmogrified into porpoises or sea-gulls by
some compassionate divinity. Be the decision of
the London police-court what it may, the culprits
may rest assured that “the beak” will be more
lenient than Zeus or Here, Ares, Athene, or Aphro-
dite would have been. As it is, his Worship has
only taken slight bail for them, and remanded
them. Once upon a time, for the same offence,
they would have been turned, straight out of hand,
into bats, or toadstools, or grasshoppers. Both
Ares and his companion in degradation, the lovely
Paphian Queen, were of a specially vindictive
character. They punished at once, and never for-
kave. Together Mars and Venus always were, in
mythology and out of it, and now in this prosaic age
we find them still, side by side ,1c the police-court.
The ciroumstances of such companionship are
scarcely dignified, but who could tell when they
were laid in their marble coffin in Athenian soil
that the day would come when the plough would
discover them, and that they would start together
upon suoh a journey, ending in such a place ? The
fanes of Cytherea, no doubt, are desolate. Cyprus
and Paphos know her worship no more. The
groves of myrtle and rose are wildernesses, and
men have forgotten that the poppy and the apple
are consecrated to her. The sparrows have thrown
off their allegiance, and the swans, too; while, bred
for the use of gun-olubs, the dove has lost all its
sanctity. Yet, let this be as it may, she is Jdalian
Aphrodite still, the omnipotent Mother of Love,
and it is an intolerable outrage upon the most
beautiful of traditions that her effigy should be
ignominiously plundered and subjected to such
gross experiences as a four-wheeler and a police-
station. For very much less than this the goddess
would, in the old days, have metamorphosed a
whole parish into bears, or stricken a province
with pestilence. Ever since the two Greek gentle-
men found the statues they seem to have had a
bad time of it. Afraid to snow their precious but
ponderous treasure-trove, they have been con-
demned by an inexorable destiny to drag the
guilty bulk about with them from Greece to the
Levant and from tho Levant to England. For
failing in that respect which was the due of the
gods whom they found, they have thrown away
the labour of months, have lost their expenditure,
and fallen eventually upon evil days as offenders
against the law. Thus, though Ares and Aphro-
dite have no temples now, it would seem as if they
had not altogether surrendered their claims to
deference or forgotten how to punish impious
men.
The Times, under its new editor, Mr.
Buckle, a gentleman 30 years of age, has appar-
ently turned Radical. So has London Punch. Our
London correspondent sends u« the above. We
have not any confirmatory extracts from the
limes, but, by a coincidence, a friend in these
colpnies sent us simultaneously a marked Punch,
which confirms the assertion of our London con-
tributor. Conceive the alteration in public opi-
nion which permits Punch, so many years a mere
jester for the wealthy classes, to print anything
like this:—
Pugson, churl and clown,
The unmoved managerial paragon.
Such his employers deem him. They indeed
Are souls superior, of too high a flight
Aught but the gross result of toil to heed,
The individual toiler’s far too slight
A matter for their thought. Old Mattook’s
meed
Is his apportioned wage; this cancels quite
The only claim his steadiest service offers,
Which is not on their conscience but their
coffers.
Mattock has served them fifty years or so,
A faithful drudge, his ageing limbs exposed
To Summer’s heat, to Winter s wet and cold;
Now his half century of use is closed,
His cramp-racked limbs at length are weak and
slow.
O’er his task the old man lagged and dozed,
Espied by Pugson. Labour’s field is large,
And Mattock’s fate is—summary discharge!
Why not ? Must economic law give place
To Mattock’s special need ? Forbid it, Sage!
The work-worn clod has run his weary race,
Has spent his manhood's strength for scanty
wage.
Cold Trade ignores the soft superfluous grace
Of sympathy for broken health or age.
what lies before its grey toil-shattered slave ?
Poverty’s dole, the Workhouse and the Grave.
Suoh long-drawn labour swells the gathering
gain
Which makes his masters pillars of the Trade,
Town notables, whose skill and force of brain
Wake platform panegyrics. Scribes upbraid
The banded Craftsmen who, their strength made
plain,
Stretch it till Capital shrinks, sore afraid:
Labour unphalanxed at their feet must cower
Whose tyranny taught it the abuse of power.
’Neath Pugson’s sway intelligence is chilled
And independence crushed; no human grace
Lighten’s subjection, labours laugh is stilled,
And skill unslavish wears a sullen face.
Like some dull creek by sluggish waters filled
And emptied tide by tide, the grim grey place
At morn and night whilst garish gaslights gleam,
Absorbs and voids a joyless human stream.
Not all are Pugson’s truly, and not all
Labour’s great Captains churls austere and
mean;
But Laoour knows how oft the toiling thrall
Is slave to Greed, that wolf though gorged still
lean,
And still voracious I Enterprise they call
The hungry thing that has the art to glean
From herded harried thousands tithe and toll,
aqueezed from starved body and from stunted
soul.”
Or like this:—“ On Friday last the Prince of Wales
E resided at a meeting held in the Guildhall to cele-
rate the Jubilee of the Abolition of Slavery in
the British Colonies. And fifty years hence they
will probably be celebrating the abolition of some-
thing which is considered to-day (as Slavery was
then) a buttress of Commerce and a Prop of the
State, Verbum sap, /”
THE KOOKABURRA.
Prison-chaplain: “ Have you been con-
? Pri8 °ner: “ Yes, sir. The beak told me
I waa a confirmed drunkard.”
Puck, ’85. Comic cartoons in colours!
“ Did Vesuvius show any signs of activity
. there ,?” a tourist was asked.
, rephed the traveller; “but 1 did when com-
ing down the mountain.
Puck Almanac; A comic illustrated work!
8unda y school in this city a teacher
wnl 6 *4!h if a ?/ 1? T a tjttJe girl—what her name
®. lie replied Helen breach.” Anurchininan
adjoining seat sang out, “ What is it in English ?”
Puck Almanac, ’85, 6d. Ready 16 th December I
Little Boy: “ Please, I want the doctor to
ai ?, d 806 m °ther.” Servant: “Dootor’s out.
Where do you come from?” Little Boy: What!
£ no * w m u ? w hy, we deal with you.
We had a baby from here last week.”
Puck, ’85. Sixpen’orth of fun and frolic!
Little Tommy was out to dinner, and his
°°® t ® 8 0 s mil dly suggested that he should wipe his
fingers on the napkin instead of the table-cloth.
“ w r ? ardon ’ ma am »” said little Tommy,
tinin o S, oug W A 8 a pity to ma ke a clean nap-
the table*” 83 WheD ther ® was SUch a dirty oloth oa
Puck,'85. By post, 7d. M’Kinley, Hunter-st.
There is a tendency to refine on phrases
mir* ™ ,nd repugnant ideas. Hence
+ ,| r^?n<^8 dont die: they have “entered into
fi 38 ortT»,o In h 8 ? luch w? 8 the con dition of the departed
miKo-M* 6 * Problematical, how would it do to
culatlon*” ? tte followin k : ~“ Withdrawn from cir-
WiHiams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
i Q^ hile a ship was sinking fast, far from
1 P a8een ? er , wa 8 observed tearing about after
* i, he disregarded his wife’s cry to
a?a i8^f e r* a i fdlow-passenger asked him why he
“ wh^VL 001 * a^ e f , l)er instead of the monkey,
t h^,’ia eca^ U8e lf 5 lose T that animal, I shall lose
Sg this morning?” 8 * H ® HWallowed my dlamon<1
nffv,^H H nr?;+V"r T flKo « est and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 652 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Lord Malmesbury tells how Mrs. Norton,
to Lord Panmure about the occasion of
the distribution of medals to officers and men who
? ad ?®rv®d in the Crimea, asked. “ Was the Queen
inched? "Bless my soul, no!” was the reply;
8h . e , had a brass railing before her, and no one
could touch her. Mrs. Norton then said, “I
mean, was she moved?” “Moved I” answered
Cord Panmure; • she had no occasion to move ! ”
Mrs. Norton then gave it up in despair.
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, Hoods, Yarn, Stock-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabrio
or fancy article, easily and perfectly coloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best colours,
warranted Fast and Durable. Each package will
colour one to four lbs. of goods. If you havs
never used Dyes, try these once. You will bf
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d?
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.O-
Sydney, and you will receive a 8ampie Card of
Colours, &o., &o., by return post.*
An American quack doctor’s advertise-
ment:—“You awake in the morning with a terri-
ble craving in your stomach. You are getting
along nicei y in the drunkard’s path. In a short
time this curse will have such a hold upon you
that you will sacrifice anything, everything, for
the sake of gratifying your slavish passion. Hold
°° 5° . yo, i. r manhood and self-respect. Fight
the hydra-headed monster with good resolutions.
Dr.— I 8 Vegetable Substitute, and the help of
God. With these you will win every time.”
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.* 3
He was a pale youns? curate then. But
before taking orders he had distinguished himself
as actmg-manager to a theatrical company, and
associations will stick. The incumbent had
rebuked him mildly tor calling the congregation
the audience ; but one Sunday he announced in
that “Next Thursday, being a
samt s day, there will be a morninar performance
at eleven, In addition to the usual matinees on
Wednesday and Friday.” That’s where the noble
order of the sack came in.
Why be sick and ailing when Hop Bitters
will surely cure you ? Read and know.
Mb. DbCourcy Bbownb (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New South-
Wales), Author of the “Miners’ Handy Book ”
Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Annual of
Minerals, Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and!
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every'
description of Land and Mining business person--
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 52Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, w Mining Titles, a welll
proven speciality, gT Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
Skierniwice, September lGth.—Last even-
ing the Czar and Czarina gave a small and select
dinner. Precisely at 7.30 two cabs drew up at the
d0 2 r ,S?,£ , Palace, and Francis Joseph of Austria
and Wilhelm of Germany entered the portals, and,
after hanging their crowns on the hat-raok and
depositing their sceptres in the corner of the hall,
took a glance in the mirror preparatory to enter-
ing the drawing-room. “Wilhelm,” said Francis,
nervously, “is my cravat climbing up the back of
my collar ?” “ No; it’s all right,” replied the Ger-
man Kmperor. “My hair all smooth? Wonder
who we’re to take in?” "Give it up. Come
along, we’re late.” After a famished interval of
fifteen minutes, during which the hot weather
was the chief topic of conversation, dinner
was announced. The Czarina rose. “ Your
Imperial Highness,” she sa(d graciously, “will
you dine a mite?” After the Czar bad
been enticed out from under the sofa, the
Austrian Monarch had been coaxed from behind a
book-case, and Wilhelm had been revived, the
Czarina apologised for her lapsus linguae, and the
party entered the dining-room. “ Came within an
ace of fainting, didn’t I? ’ remarked the German
Emperor, and a royal flush o’erspread his pallid
countenance. “Yes,” replied the Czarina. “For
a moment it was three kings and an acc—almost a
full hand for me. How are the people of Germany
at present?” “ Oh, they’re assassination,” gloomily-
answered Wilhelm, as he eyed the waiters with
suspicion. The Imperial Soup-taster then pro-
ceeded to sample the consommil, and their High-
nesses, before taking any, waited patiently to see
whether he would fall dead or turn green, while
nothing disturbed the convivial silence, save the
measured tread of the sentinel in the pantry and
the smothered ticking of the infernal machine that
was concealed in the mashed potatoes.


COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.S.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c., &o.
TidfffflSdtSSSr' undorfken for Ball,, Weddings, Banquets, Dinner,, Lunoheon,
°“ Uem ' n ’ - *•—*
I RIVATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in tho Bar until 11 p.m.
E - D - TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnoni Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney. *
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13.
—I
Rupertswood! Rupertswood!!
1090 CHOICE BUSINESS AND VILLA SITES.
For alo on the Ground,
On SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13, at 3 o’clock
On Very Easy Terms—£l Deposit, One Shilling per Week. Interest, G per cent
Free Transfers for Purchasers of (> Lots.
RAILWAY STATION AND SIDING AT ONE CORNER OF RUPERTSWOOD,
PUBLIC SCHOOL CORNER OF RUPERTSWOOD.
PROPOSED PLATFORM IN THE CENTRE OF RUPERTSWOOD.
RAILWAY FRONTAGES AT RUPERTSWOOD.
SPECIAL TRAINS at 1.55 on 13th DECEMBER to RUPERTSWOOD.
REMEMBER THE GREAT SALE AT RUPERTSWOOD.
SPLENDID SITES AND WIDE STREETS AT RUPERTSWOOD.
BLUE MOUNTAIN VIEW ALL PARTS OF RUPERTSWOOD.
SMALL DEPOSITS AND INSTALMENTS AT RUPERTSWOOD.
W” 40 ALLOTMENTS A 8 PRIZES AT RUPERTSWOOD.
How Can You Make Money on the 13th December ? By Purchasing at RUPERTSWOOD.
Do not Wait till the Land is too Dear. BUY NOW.
Attend the Great ale, 1090 Lots, 13th December.
Parents Should Purchase a Few Allotments at Rupertwood for their Children.
T. R. SMITH, CHAPMAN, and SMITH
l ““ # interest, Vparcent*.' 8 ’ Vmv E4B¥ dopoeit, balance „ne Bbilllng per week,
TORRENS' TITLE. SPECIAL TRAIN ON DAT OP SALE, at I.M.
Lithographs and Free Tickets at 458 George-street.
WILL MAKE YOUR HENS LAY
ECCS
COSTS Out y Fa*thiwqulU
»i> «mw m?SL» HtosJl]
COSTS Sot 5*
•* «t 15 ■« LB
fOA »
TLOCr) oT 12 FottlJ
Stevtto #>> nrrztfi rurtHT
He Mi ia
fAcve*ra cunt a
M'IAALr AU out AX
co«r/»ov no Aauirnr
eOAfmtryoM i AoutrA?
'ms fwtr fftoserAßuz
oaS rtf a SA/fM).
WILL MAKE YOUR HENS LAY.
T U RT EVAN?,So]e I
a vcccsso/t tv cm tt Aue* *er (
216 State Street
HARTFORD. CMJ.S.
Prlce-2oz. packets, 4s. (Id. per doz.; single pounds, 25.; 4s.; 61b. boxes, Bs.*
lOlb. boxes, 125.; 2E»lb. kegs, 275. 6d.
Liberal discount allowed to the trade. To be had from all Grocers, Chemists, Seed and Agricultural
Stores, and
EUGENE KLOTZ S CO., 32 Bridge-st., Sydney,')
S. C. GENDERS & CO., Adelaide, S.A. J
80LE
AGENTS.
Complete Photographic Outfits,
COMPRISING EVERYTHING NECESSARY TO ENABLH
EVEN THE MOST INEXPERIENCED TO PRODUCE
SATISFACTORY PICTURES OF LANDSCAPES, ETC.
f 'HOTOGRAPHIC
1 STOCK
IMPORTERS
■ J
"■m
\
%
a
s
m
p***
a
MV
9+-^
h Sor^ B d S+
1* ° C °fa|| fi '
' f Vo q| . ,
r CARDS,CHEMICALS a Phic
qents jot' :
W.JOHNSON&SONS 17* A PEftTl
NITR.SILVER AND CHLOR.GOLD
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING GO.,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL CLASSES OF ILLUSTRATIONS UNDERTAKEN.
Fac-similes of Handwriting for Circulars. Music Plates prepared.
THIS COMPANY having specially engaged a number of first-class experts from London, New
York, and San Francisco, in addition to a staff locally trained, is now in a position
TO UNDERTAKE WORK IN ANY QUANTITY, AND OF QUALITY NOT SURPASSED BY
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
ET* Book of Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
fn 'r oofo acj raving
e efc
i f v a cat" er\g-ra\?eb Op @yp
a£ pftof o-ct; emicaf rr\ea.ny.
S*C y rnoun.rec| type ancL_
can §e /etl m porrry o*j?
an.cj prinTed. jrronrL op any or di—
nary prinfi'ncj prey. 9p appear-
ance t r \?ery oiosef
a cooob cuL anc[ y infer) to
s apery ede fo a cyeaß exfeptl
tfial <5 Po co anc| cosTPy nm.etfi.oc3_
o|?e n q- ra\? i ricj . \Ve oa p oj: j?e r
yeaf i ncjucern.erJy’ to aPP coßo
iye cut/ j?or , Price
P'yly > OataPocj''u€y > or any
cPldyertTiy ing purpcye. Qef our
c.s fi naa £ey cincj tyy ay
RESPONSIBLE AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY CITY IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
The Federal Art Union.
TO BE DISPOSED OF BY SUBSCRIPTION, ON
THE ART UNION PRINCIPLE,
By permission of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
£5OOO Worth of Pictures,
In 10,000 Shares of lOs. Each.
COMPRISING
LANDSCAPES, PORTRAITS,
AND OTHER PICTURES,
By the Best English and Colonial Artists.
The following Subscribers have kindly consented
to assist the Drawing Committee in the distribution
of the prizes
A. J. GOULD, Esq,. M.L.A.; J. A. MACKINNON,
Esq., M.L.A.; F. J. GIBBES, Esq., M.L.A.:
R. M. VAUGHN, Esq., M.L.A.
THE drawing of the prizes will take place under
the direction of a committee to be elected
by the subscribers, who will receive notice by
three advertisements in the “Herald,” “Daily
Telegraph,” and “ Evening News.”
The date of drawing will be advertised as soon
as two-thirds of the subscribers have been ob-
tained. When the drawing day has once been
decided upon, there will be no further postpone-
ment.
Purchasers will be found for all pictures over
£5 at a commission of 10 per cent, should the win-
ners consider the prizes over valued.
Winners of prizes who prefer selling their pic-
tures can have the money immediately after the
drawing.
Should this Art Union be withdrawn at any time,
the money will be returned in full to the sub-
scribers.
WINNING NUMBERS WILL BE ADVERTISED
IN ALL LEADING PAPERS.
Amongst the pictures is a “ View on the Thames,”
by Varley, the eminent artist—for 60 years or more
in the house of the late Sir George Stephen, Knight,
Q.C„ Beputy-Lieutenant of the county of Buck-
ingham, from whose sole surviving executor it
has been purchased. Authenticity of this picture
guaranteed by certificate from the Hon. Sir Alfred
Stephen, C. 8., K.C.M.G., Lieutenant-Governor.
Send crossed cheques, P. 0.0., or stamps.
Apply to
J. A. PARKER, Secretary,
19 Hunter-street, or Box 608 G.P.0., Sydney.
Secure tickets at once, so that the date for draw-
ing the prizes may be fixed upon.
W. H. CHARD AND GO.,
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
SYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL er
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
kjipwn flrm is given to all consignments.
VENETIA WALTZ:
Tho Air to Qt teaU ouirkod. o*jtour® ICowTin*!*.
enSitobiU
m
i>i
p.-.i
has the Largest Stock
oi MUSIC in the city.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &o.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &c.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
Catalogues of above post free.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Papers, &o.
Printing.—lnvoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
Cards.
All orders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels
£1 upward. ’
Albums, Purses, Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &o.
Music and Books bound in any style, cheap.
Birthday and other Seasons’ Cards, splendid stock
The display of CHRISTMAB CARDS this year
will be the iinest ever seen ; many beautiful kinds
have already been received.
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
takes off 3000 copies ; the Berrygt aph, the cost of
which is a mere trifle, takes off 70 splendid copies.
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
THE
b Davis bit; Machine.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever introduced into Australia.
EASY TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EASY TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Machine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Sold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE to
any part of the colony.
B. 0. Holtermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Berrygra phi
The Universal Copying Instrument, lor
4Jd. Fourpence halfpenny. 4|d.
Will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, 4s. 6d.; Letter, 65.; Foolscap, 9s. per
quire.
Full particulars,
W. BULLARD, 542 George-street.


RNITUEB SHOW 800 M
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
H
ALL FURNITURE, HAT6TANDS,
CHAIRS, LARGE ASSORTMENT.
and
T LBRARY FURNITURE, CENTRE and SIDE
JJ TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
ms
Inspection,
WING-ROOM SUITES, in EXQUISITE
taste, the very latest fashion : well worthy of
Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
WALL CABINETS for Choice China, &o.
VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
Marble-top tables, on strong hand-
some STANDS, for olubs, restaurants
smoking rooraß, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, NEWTON,
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
Eight-pound bedroom suiTES.-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BEDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
plate-glass door; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE,
with swing glass attached : PEDESTAL CUP-
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guineas.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from 10s.
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.;
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, fromlos.6d.; Writing
ith Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
Tables
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets.
S
*
PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
O'
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush
itiy £
, &e.
in
iMHIfFONNfER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
\J just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
CrConnell-street.
Enamelled and jewelled mirrors, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for flro grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
0 Connell-street.
T"h RAWING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
JJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW BTYLES.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
CHAIR BE D STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 803 the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board. DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARV-
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-street.
patent extending
D
INING TABLES, with .
sorew, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
SJW.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash —strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, if required,
28.6 d. extra.
► AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
» Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
rnRAMKWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITEB
D and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.-A very exten-
ve assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
id other designs, which can be upholstered in
ly materials to meet the taste and requirements
f buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in „ oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
JEDSTEADB, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Newton, and Lamb.
■JEDDING—AII descriptions at lowest rates.
3 BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O'Con-
ill and Spring streets.
r ASHSTANDS, with marble, from 3&s. each
▼ BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
ARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
IT, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
> KNTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very eemplets
Assortment: best make, low eat priee*-
SOCIAL
The Baptists held a most sedate bazaar in
the Newtown Town Hall. The shyest young man
could go safely in. Matrons without the least
flippancy would introduce cosic-s and cushions to
his notice; and even Miss Buffers, who was the
most enterprising: of single ffirls, and wore a cocoa-
coloured dress, was as demure as she was dainty.
There were some eight or ten stalls, on which the
heterogeneous articles usually seen a* bazaars
were spread—very much spread, for the stock was
limited. Mrs. Davies was assiduous in wwrkinv up
members for a large blue doll, so lifelike that no
married man could have taken it home without
first explaining how he got it. Natty decorations
were spread about the hall, and a refreshment
table was quite a favourite place under the allur-
ing management of several modest maidens.
* * *
Dr. A. H. Nash, the handsome homooopath-
ist, was married the other day at Bouth Brisbane
to Miss Ida J. Pietzeker. second daughter of Mr.
A. R. H. Pietzeker, J.P., of Ercildean, in that
locality. The wedding was a pretty one—the bride,
of course, in white, and her four maids in cream
veiling with heliotrope ribbons; and quite a num-
ber of visitors went to church to witness the
genial doctor being made happy. The event will
be a rude shock to a number of nice Sydney girls.
Breakfast was held at Mrs. Pietzeker’s residence,
and a lew days ago Mr. and Mrs. Nash went
through from Sydney to Melbourne to complete
their honeymoon.
* * *
The closing ball of the Albert Quadrille
Assembly at Leichhardt seems to have been an
important event, for a large number of the Mite
gathered round the door. These spectators
favoured the guests as they arrived with various
expressions, of approval or otherwise, as to their
attire. Youths garbed in the unpretending but
useful gi-e* tweed were looked on with silent
respect. Hamlet, Hannibal, the Mahdi, and other
celebrities were warmly received; while ladies
fixed up as Boadicea or Joan of Arc received out-
bursts of delight. The Albert Hall is a fine one,
with every convenience, and Mrs. Crawshaw, of
Day-street, catered refreshments in the large back
room. A string band played on the stage, and the
usual two dozen dancc-s were finished soon after
four. During the evening, some atrooious hyena
outside disseminated the odour of a dead dog
through the open windows. Some active young
men started out to enquire after his health, but
he had left. Had they found the humorous
animal, he would probably have filled a respon-
sible part in an inquest. Except this little
incident, “ nothing occurred to mar the harmony
of the proceedings.” There was a very close con-
test for beau of the ball. Charles IT. was gor-
geous, but small for a King, and his legs were
almost derisively delicate. His rival, Don Cie.ar,
or Don Juan, or something, whose first entry was
greeted with general acclamation, was more sub-
stantial; but new boots gave him an air of stiff-
ness, and he did not possess the same perennial
smile that Charles wore. Each of these young
gentlemen fetched his heart’s idol with him. and
the ladies, too, were serious rivals. One was a
French Cabin Boy, looking piquant, if not pert;
the other, Maritana, with crimson gloves that went
right up to her shoulder. They might have gone
farther; it's hard to tell. Australia was a tall girl
in red, white, and blue, whose symmetry was not
concealed by her skirt; a capital dancer, too. A
Flower Girl was decked with flowers and ferns to
represent the season of flowers. Anyone who
looked at her bobbing muslin skirt would see it
represented the spmiff. A little girl in pinky
muslin, who lived “ justaoross the estate,” talked
and danced quite prettily, and was a Lord as well
as a lady. A girl in white broche and veiling, who
came late, was particularly catching; and a Glebe
young lady, in black grenadine, looked like the
essence of grace.
• • •
Next Wednesday, Madame Charbonnet-
Kellermann gives her soirde musicale in the Pro-
testant Hall. The musical programme is a gener-
ous one; and, as the distribution of prizes, medals,
etc., will take up some time, it is well to bear in
miud that proceedings will begin at 7.30 p.m. sharp.
• •
On Saturday last, the Corporation officers
held their annual picnic at Corry's Gardens, Caba-
rita. Shortly after 10 a.m. a steamer started from
No. 4 jetty, Circular Quay, and went a pleasant
cruise round the harbour. The picnio party con-
sisted of geutlemeu only, consequently the sports
indulged in were those requiring muscle and
agility; they were admirably arranged, energeti-
cally pursued, aud successfully carried out from
11 a.m. till 2 p.m. The race for gentlemen over 40
years of ago might have been more emblematic,
for it was notable that the evergreen Barry Fox
and his agile compeer, M. Veaney. were absent,
notwithstanding they were freely spoken about as
likely winners. The other events were well con-
tested, the results evidencing that the City Sur-
veyor's department possessed the best athletes.
Wheu it is mentioned that several, of the prizes
were “ jam ” jars, and a spirit flask, anyone
can see they were appropriately chosen. The
programme was nicely diversified with items in
which all could meet. After the sports, about 90
officers adjourned to the pavilion, where tables
were well'spread. Catering was by Mr. Correy,
and much appreciated. Mr. Woolcott presided,
and after about half-an-hour’sspell-bound silence,
during which time much was done to accelerate
the growth and development of a “ corporation ’
for each officer, the chairman proposed the loyal
toasts, and afterwards the health of the Mayor;
he spoke of the ability of that gentleman, and the
faculties which enabled him so worthily to fill the
Mayoral chair and discharge the duties of his
office. The toast was received with ardent zeal.
The Mayor briefly responded, and then proceeded
to present prizes to the successful competitors in
the sports. A new feature was introduced, viz.,
that of a concert and elooutionary entertainment
consisting of twelve items, which were ably ren-
dered by several officers. The song by Mr. A.
Cheek-e White seemed to be very well sung. Mr.
Veaney’B recitation merited much applause. The
committees worked well, and altogether the Cor-
poration officers had a most enjoyable picnic.
Some people may wonder how this can be, as there
wore no ladies present; but we may explain that
many of the Corporation officers are married men,
and it's sometimes a x-eliof, you know, to—to—well,
wo mean it’s a relief to the ladies to have an occa-
sional rest.
This year the Eistern Suburbs Amateur
Athletic Club intend their annual reunion to take
the form of a private picnic and afternoon tea at
Tennyson. The idea is just suitable to this time
of year, and a jolly afternoon may be expected.
Of course, there will be dancing (good partners
assured) and sports. The Invincible leaves foot of
Phillip-street at 2 p.m. on Saturday.
* . * *
In the Burrowa Times there is a column
of “Frivolities,’' by Annie the Flirt. We have
read weaker stuff, and wiser; but, anyhow, a lot
of girls can't write half as well as Annie. One
jealous puss-Carrie, an’ it please you-tried to be
perfectly horrid the other day by casting a doubt
on the Flirt’s sex. It’s all right, though. Annie s
a girl, sure enough—
It’s true we’ve not seen her, but that is no matter,
For women are like some birds —
They are known by the way they incessantly
chatter.
And Annie s prolific in words!
Poor Carrie, you do not possess much acumen,
And all you’d be safe to assert
Would be: that this Flirt may not be a young
woman.
But evry young woman's a flirt.
There is to be a ladies’ refreshment room
in the Botanic Gardens... New tea-gardens lately
opened at Grafton Governor Loch and the
Duke of Manchester visited the Upper Yarra dis-
trict. Some scenery to enjoy there ..We are told
that on 24th November, the boy politician of Mel-
bourne, J. P. T. Caulfield, was married to Mips
Minnie O’Gorman, an heiress of Carlton Mel-
bourne Parliamentary picnic to-day On Thurs-
day, at the Cambridge Club, the Garrick Club’s
second social took place. A notable visitor was
Mr. Hyman, V.P. ot the Melbourne Owls, whoue
recitation was warmly approved. Solos on flute,
violin, and cornel, recitations, conjuring and
songs, filled the bill. The annual Masonicba,ll
came off at Glen Innes last Thursday
Last week a ball was held at Albion Park to
raise prizes for the Convent School, Illawarra.
About seventy present, Mr. Hanley as M.C., and
music by Clarke. Oh, yes,
The dance is now the rule,
To get prizes for each school
Each cheerful “ votary” raises dust and dollar; *
Not a scholar is afraid,
For an Illawarra maid
Will do anything for a delicious—collar.
The practice of criticism having been intro-
duced in Cootamundra Debating Society, the bud.-
ding orators have shrunk into silence. Criticism
after they speak withers them. What a saving j.t
would be to criticise them beforehand. There
was a cricket club concert In Cundletown. School
of Arts, last week. To see the cricketers and the! r
girls going home in the moonlight, you’d think
they spelled Cundletown without an “ n.” Yes
At a Stawell ball last month, one of the prettient
girls was Miss N. Rees. Can she sing, t 00?... O.
Smith is said to have been the most lavish Mayor
Melbourne has had for years Sir George Inneu,
on Monday night, strongly recommended gym-
nastics for “the gentler and more graceful beings
who bless our existence.”.. A young lady adver-
tises in the Melbourne Herald for a husband,
who must be a Unitarian and a vegetarian. Belief
is a matter of sentiment, but as to the eating—be-
fore they had been married a week she would ask
him, as a favour, to try a beefsteak or two, or she
would not be an ordinary girl A very interest-
ing article in the Baptist bazaar was a stand of
lovely flowers, all made of the feathers of native
birds, the natural colours of the plumage being
arranged exactly to suit the flowers. ..OnTues-
day afternoon, Miss Ethel Allen, daughter of Sir
Wigram Allen, was married at the private chapel,
Toxteth Park, Glebe, to Lieut. Maxwell of H.M.6.
Nelson. Breakfast at Lady Allen’s; great festi-
vities; hundreds invited. The evening before, some
60 members of the Metropolitan Liedertafel (of
which Sir George is president) serenaded Toxteth
House, and were afterwards asked in and regaled,
and several toasts were proposed —On Monday,
the cricketer. Mr. W. L. Murdoch, was married to
Miss Minnie Watson, daughter of the rich Bendigo
miner, J. B. Watson. This is the most important
match William has yet been in ...Mr. E. D Tolle-
mache, manager of the Compagnoni Co., gives a
ball on Friday night, at Leigh House, to a large
number of friends. He is making it a good affair...
Mr. J. J. Richardson is to be dinnered to-night, at
Baumann’s, by the Amateur Sailing Club, ere he
departs for Grafton—Next week, the Exhibition
will be the popular lounge. It will be opened at
noon on Monday by Mr. Hardie, the retiring
Mayor, and will be iit by the electric light every
evening.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Ball (Glebe Town Hall) December 12.
Engineering Association Picnic (Cor-
rey’s Gardens) December 13.
E.S.A.A. Club Picnic (Tennyson) December 13.
Industrial Exhibition opens December 15.
Mdme. Charbonnet-Kellermann’s Soi-
ree Musicaie (Protestant Hall)..December 17.
Mrs. Mart'n’s Juvenile Ball . December 18.
Messrs. Needs’ Pupils’ Ball December 19.
Irish Fancy Fair opens (St. Bene-
dict’s) December 87.
Puck Almanac, ’B5, 6d. Ready 18th December I
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flaw and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 804 Hunter-street, Sydney.*
Puck, ’B5. Comic wood-euts in black and white 1
Marshall Brothers have completed ar-
rangements to supply a full set of Artificial Teeth,
upper and lower, at the enormously reduced price
or £5, perfect fit and quality guaranteed. Pain-
less extraction by Nitrous Oxide Gas. Please note
address—MAKS HALL BROS , Dentists, 104 and 106
Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.*
“ Well, Genevieve, what shall I get Alice
for her Christmas?” “Let’s think, Carl. Oh, I
know. She’s been married, now, four months,
and one of those dinner-sets at Bray’s, 402 George-
street, will be just the thing to please her most.
They have over 200 different patterns, and suoh
cunning designs, too. Alice can have her Christ-
mas dinner off it. She will be delighted I”*
Help, or I Perish! Thousands of persons
in bud health, and those suffering with disease,
feel that if they do not get relief soon, it will be
too late. They realise that their malady is gradu-
ally destroying their lives. To all such we say. in
good faith, try BRISTOL’S PILLS and SARSA-
PARILLA; they have cured thousands who were
in despair, and why not you ?*
Puck, 'B5. Comic cartoons in colours!
An orator who had raised his audience to
a great height by his lofty soarings, exclaimed, “I
will now close with the beautiful and expressive
language of the poet—l forget his name—and—
and—l forget what he said, too, but I distinctly
remember his boys were always beautifully
clothed by Summerfleld and Co., the Great Juve-
nile Outfitters, 235 and 237 Pitt-street, Sydney.”
Over 6000 suits in stock, to fit the wee little boy in
frocks to the big school-boys. These goods are
specially made from Summerfleld and Co.’s cele-
brated “ wear-resisting fabrics," and imported
direct from their London house, 51 and 53 Leaden-
hall-street, E.C. Bliss, Greenwich, and Sultan
suits, 000 to 6, at Bs. lid., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.; Png
brown suits, all sizes, 215., 255., 30s. Summerfleld
and Co., the Great Juvenile Outfitters.*
Puck, ’B5, 6d. A Portfolio of Perfection!
Not His Fault. Fare: “Drive me to No.
235 Pitt-street.” Cabby: “ Pl-pl-ease, wha-what
number d-did you say ?” Fare: “235. I hear you
stammer a bit.” Cabby: “Only wh-when I’m
t-t-talking.” (Cabby drives up to No. 237.) Fare:
“ Come, have you forgotten the number ?” Cabby:
“ No, only I c-c-couldn’t say w-w-woh sh-sh-sharp
enough.” However, the gentleman walked into
No. 235 Pitt-street, the establishment cf H. L.
Summerfleld and Co., Merchant Tailors, and was
measured for a pair of their celebrated trousers
to order at 10s. 6d. Summerfleld and Co. employ
the largest staff of experienced cutters in Aus-
tralia, and are now showing a very magnificent
stock of woollens for the Christmas trade. All
goods thoroughly shrunk, and fit guaranteed.
Country residents promptly supplied with pat-
terns, tape, and illustrated catalogue. Summer-
fleld and Co., Merchant Tailors,*
Puck, ’B5. The wood-cuts by T. Carrington.
The hot weather has come at last. It’s hot
everywhere, and the only way to keep at anything
under 100’ in the shade, is to adopt the suggestion
of the late Sydney Smith, cleric and wit, to slip out
of your skin and sit in your bones. An overcoat
is not now an absolute necessity, and the thinner
the shirt the cooler the man. It touches up every-
one, does this hot weather. It sours some people’s
tempers, it disarranges the livers of others, and
it brings out an epidemic of angry correspond-
ence iu tne papers on that fruitful grievance,
the Water Supply. As we have said, it’s
hot everywhere —the wind is generally hot,
and the water is almost simmering in the pipes.
It’s hot in the theatre, it’s hot in the streets, it’s
hot iia the houses; in fact, the hot season has de-
liberately set in. There is only one place within
our knowledge where it is cool, and the thought
of it creates a delicious sensation of iciness all
over us; and that place is the beautiful, cool, airy,
well-ventilated warehouses of Anthony Hordern
and Sons, Palace Emporium, Haymarket.*
Puck,'Bs. By post, 7d. M’Kinley, Hunter-st.
[?]
Sydney, Wednesday.
My Dearest Belle,—We thought we were only
going to the new Masonic Hall last Thursday night
to hear the Metropolitan Liedertafel; but there
was an after-piece when the concert was over,
which Ned likened to a “ wild beast show,” but
which, I think, is rather too hard a name for an
exhibition of gross ill manners on the part of
human creatures. But such a crush and senseless
striving to be first out. just as though it were a
matter of life and death I I got so frightened that
Ned said we had better stand aside, for he assured
me there was nothing to fear if we only allowed
the beautiful creatures to have their way. So we
stood aside and gazed with wonder on the scene
before us, and for the first time in my life I was
able to comprehend how human beings got crushed
to death during a fire panic. And there never was
a plainer example of “ more hurry, less speed.”
The doorways were jammed so tight at times that
actually the mass of people didn’t gain an inch a
minute, and one old lady had her cap dragged off
her head, whilst numerous clouds were torn off
fair shoulders by being brought into too close proxi-
mity with brooches, hairpins, bracelets, and the
like. When will people learn to show their good
breeding (if they have any) in leaving a crowded
concert room like rational beings instead of wild
animals. I wonder I A glance into the cloak-room
was sufficient to show that matters were no better
there. The poor woman in charge was at her
wit’s ends in trying to keep order, and begged in
vain of the ladies to have patience, as she could
not attend to them all at once; but they wouldn’t
and didn’t have patience. The consequence
was—hats, cloaks, &c., were so tossed about
that many ladies were kept waiting twenty
minutes before theirs cauld be found at all. After
a long and patient wait, we were actually allowed
at last to make our exit, and breathed freely once
more ; but even yet our troubles were not at an
end, for we found that if we did not jump into
our cab before it drew up to the kerbing, others
with more expedition than good manners would
monopolise it, and drive away in triumph. Tired
and weary we were when wo got home that night,
I can assure you, but-Ave didn’t think we had paid
too dearly for hearing Madame and Mr. Radcliff
and Mr. Hallewell. And, you little puss, you must
have told Mr. Hallewell that I wanted to hear him
sing the “Valley” again—now, didn’t you? lam
sure you did; so don’t deny it. When you write to
him again, thank him from me for singing it, and
tell him how well we all enjoyed it—atleast, I did I
know. As for the Radoliffs, I really think if it
had not been for their music, I should quite be-
grudge the spoiling of the train of my new white
satin (serves me right for wearing one in a concert
room, doesn’t it ?> and losing my pretty pale-blue
chenille shawl. As it is, however, the pleasure of
hearing them more than compensated for both loss
and spoliation. Madame looked ever so charming
in a beautiful pink satin with long train. The
bodice, as well as the whole front of the skirt, was
covered with white beaded lace, which glistened
like thousands of dewdrops with every movement
of the fair cantatrice. A beautiful bouquet was
handed to her after her first solo ; it made mine
look so shabby and mean that I couldn’t let Ned
throw it to her. I don’t know how awu flowers
managed to survive such a dreadful day as Wednes-
day. It was quite enough to account for the
scarcity of bouquets in the. Masonic Hall on
Thursday night.
I am much worried to know what those dear
little Tam O’Shanter hats are for which are being
shown in some of the shop windows. They cannot
possibly be for day-time wear, for they are so
flimsy and light that they would be hardly any
protection for the head. Listen to this, and judge
for yourself. A foundation of white net covered
with fine gold gauze, and fastened nearly in front
with a large buckle; a ueautiful amber and white
ostrich feather, so very long that the tip touches
the opposite shoulder. Now, it strikes me that
some French milliner has sent out these dainty
hats, or, rather, caps, with the idea that, we wear
hats in the theatres here, as they do in Paris, and
for that purpose these frail-looking things are
right enough. But I don’t know why they do wear
hats in theatres anywhere, for where’s the sense of
it ? Not only are they superfluous, but, more than
that, they are really inconvenient, and also con-
ducive to headaches. They should be as strictly
prohibited from concert halls and theatres as
babies in arms; for, if they don’t make a noise,
they get in our way and obstruct our view, which
is just as bad. We don’t see any in the theatres
here, but some people will persist in wearing either
bonnets or hats in our concert halls, which is
selfish, to say the least of it.
Herr Vogrichhas imposed upon himself a diffi-
cult task in his endeavours to imbue his audiences
with a taste for the highest classical musio. His
intentions, no doubt, are excellent, but it strikes
me that he attempts too much at a time. A Schu-
bert, Schumann, and Spohr programme frightens
people, and the fact that, with one exception,
there were no encores demanded on the night of
the sixth concert, speaks for itself. The exception
was Haydn's quartette for strings, which, of
course, is familiar to everybody, and which was
received like an old and valued friend. Madame
Vogiich, most beautifully attired in a rich cream
silk with front width of the sairt of cerise satin,
sang charmingly, especially the “ Ave Maria.”
Mons. de Wlllimofl: and Herr Vogrich were the
other soloists, the former playing a sweet cantabile
for violin, and Herr Vogrich several pianoforte
solos, one “Gavotte Hongroiae” being his own
composition, which is a more peculiar tnan pleas-
ing piece. As there are only two more concerts of
the series, I do hope to see good houses, and I
should like beyond anything to hear Madame sing
a simple ballad once more. Bad taste, no doubt,
but, at ali events, I am not singular in this respect,
I do assure you.
In order to wipe out part of their debt, the com-
mittee of the Western Suburbs Musical Society
conceived the brilliant idea of having a matinee
on a Saturday afternoon. Just think of it! As if
anyone would go and sit out a matinee when the
sun was shining, the birds singing, and the balloon
about to ascend 1 And I don't think it was quite
good taste to ask artists to give up their Saturday
afternoon just for the sake of singing and playing
to empty chairs and a handful of people. If I had
been those artists, I should have been “ real mad,”
as the Yankees say. There was Bass Hodge with
his band, Miss Josephine Deakin, Miss Sheridan
Reed, Mons. de Willimoff, Mr. Toms, and Mr.
Johnson—quite enough to make a good concert:
and it was a good concert, too. The only drawback
was in there being hardly anybody to listen to it.
The committee are furious with the Burwoodites
for not turning up, and the people laugh at the
committee for their folly in expecting them to do
so at such a time. What is it these people lack, I
wonder, that they can’t manage to keep together
their Musical Society without running into debt?
Bad management somewhere, I’m afraid.
The two monster ballad concerts which the
Radcliffs intend giving before leaving Sydney,
wUI, I hear, be postponed for a while, as they have
accepted numerous engagements which will fill
up their programme for some time to come. Just
as well, perhaps, as wo have been regularly
satiated with concerts for the last two months.
But these ballad concerts are going to be specially
attractive, several items on the programmes being
(Continued in next page.)


Puck Almanac, ’B5, 6d. Pleases everybody 1
Puck, ’B5, 6d. Suitable for Railway reading 1
UP IN A BALLOON.-A STRANGE STORY.
“Ma, is that man going up to Heaven?” said
a beautiful blue-eyed little girl who stood near the
balloon at Prince Alfred Park last Saturday. ‘ Oh
no net. The balloon is tied, and will be pulled
back again.” Little Nell, innocently: “ Will he go
to Heaven if I should cut the rope?' Ma confused,
and not knowing how to answer the child; but, on
reflection, said they would not be allowed to go in.
“ Why, mamma, only angels are allowed, then ?
What are angels; are they like us ?’’ “Oh no, my
child 1 Angels have wings and fly. I wonder if
you and I and papa will get there and fly. I
hone so.” “ Don’t you think that man in the bal-
loon will get up there? Just see, mamma, he is
going up alive. What has he got in that basket?
I know it must be something good. Just see how
he smiles. Watch his lips; he can t keep them still.
I bet it’s lovely. It’s going up with him. Let me
go and see what it is?” The dear little angel
peeped into the aeronaut’s car, and then ran back
to its niotner delighted, her face full of joy, and
with that child-like innocence looked into its
mother’s face, and said: “ Mamma, he will get into
Heaven; he has the Anheuser Busch St. Louis
Lager Beer in his basket. Won’t papa be pleased?”*
Puck Almanac, ’B5, 6d. Pleases everybody!
Puck, ’B5. By post, Td. ATKinley, Hunter-Bt.
“ German Syrup.” —No other medicine in
the world has ever given such a test of its cuia-
tive qualities as Boschee’s German Syrup. In
three years two million four hundred thousand
small bottles of this medicine were distributed
free of charge by Druggists in the United States of
America to those afflicted with Consumption,
Asthma, Croup, severe Coughs, Pneumonia, and
other diseases of the throat and lungs, giving the
afflicted undeniable proof that German Syrup will
cure them. The result has been that Druggists in
every town and village in civilized countries are
recommending it to their customers. Go to your
Druggist and ask what they know about it. Sample
Bottles 6d. Regular size, 3s. 6d« Three doses will
relieve any case.
Annual Income exceeds One Million;
Liahtning and Gas Explosion Damages Paid.
THE YANKEE RUBBER
BABY.
THE unprecedented de-
mand for these inter-
esting: infants has ex-
hausted the supply a full
month earlier than we an-
ticipated. A fresh supply
will, however, be received
in time for Xmas and New
Year’s amusements ; it is,
therefore, advisable to send in your orders as
early as possible, and we will forward the infant
as soon as received. Post free, Is. 6d.
4 '
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing: from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full ls. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; The Mother-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 25.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest “ have ” out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog;—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich. Is. 6d.; by nost, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. 6d.; New Favourite, 1s 6d.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Kings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
two at Is. each.
HORTON and CO., 401 Qeorge-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
Black Swan Hotel.
GREEN WELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRST Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnitlcient s.s. lllawarra, leaves
Sydney every Tuesday and Friday night, at 11
o’clock.
1 AHA DOMESTIC PAPER FASHIONS
JL VJ vav" shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ; by Post, Fourpence.
CHAP P iTI & CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper Pattern and General Sewing-machine
Agency,
746 GEORGE ST., HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, &c., kept in
s tock.
SPECIALIST,
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Speeifio: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Ollice Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President—P.O. 80x673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10 ; Gentlemen’s, No.
11. 53 Castlereagh-strcet, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
£2500.
TATTERSALL’S CUP,
NEW YEAR’S DAY.
Eurick’s Subscription,
5000 MEMUGHS AT 10s. EACH
Add 3d. for Membership. Registered letters only.
Address “ Eurick,” G.P.O. Sydney. Close Decem-
ber 39th, Results posted ; also this paper.
m
1
Mb
mm
Hi
fIIKY BURGIS’ £3 3s. Suits, to measure. Trousers
from 16s. 6d. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 1,70 PITT-STKEET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams for sc
forwarded to anv nart, of the colon*
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Bxiclstield. Hill.
Most ELABORATE PATTERNS in LACE CURTAINS.
These Patterns are designed from Australian Ferns aHd Flowers
LACE CURTAINS, 100 PRICES.
Ladles residing In the country can have forwarded to the nearest Railway Station, Free of Charge, a Set of Lace
Curtains. If you like the pattern which is represented in this engraving, cut it o&t, and we will forward exactly
the same pattern. See future advertisements for other patterns.
i
'ik*> A
B
8
s
7»
I
Mil
Ut Ji i&A
ICKI
fr*
MM
Price: 123. 6d., 155., 17s. 6d. the pair.
ONE ONLY ADDRESS:—
LACE CURTAINS, 200 DIFFERENT PATTERNS.
Irish Linen Table Damasks, to match the Curtains. Table Napkins. Linen Diapers. Embroidered Table Covers.
Mosquito Nets. Striped and Plain Window Union.' gP - Examine carefully the engraving of our
* LACE CURTAINS.”
EDWARD HORDERN & SONS,
7 LACK CURTAINS | 668 BRICKFIELD HILL. | LACE CURTAINS')
Patterns and Prioe Lists of Goods forwarded on application.
quite novel. And Mons. Leon Caron has written a
“Grand Scena” for voice and flute for Madame
Radcllff, which she and Mr. Radclill will intro-
duce for the first time at these concerts. I have
heard the song, dear, and it is something worth
listening to, I can tell you. I forget what it is
called, but there is in it a most clever double
cadenza for flute and voice, and exactly suited to
the two artists for whom it was written. I am
quite looking forward to hearing it again in a
large hall.
After a busy day of shopping last Friday, we
dropped into Compagnoni’s, just to see if the
music gave any additional relish to our ices and
cups of tea. You know they have matimies every
Tuesday and Friday, and really I think it is nicer
to eat and drink with a band acoompaniment—it
seems to me more poetical, somehow. And Mr.
Tollemaohe, the manager, informed us all that if
we had any music of our own composition that we
would like to hear played by the band, he would
have it scored for us, and would announce to us
the day when it would be performed. Of oourse,
this is provided the music possess sufficient merit
to repay him for the trouble. And of course when
we know what day we may expect to bear our
very own music played, we snail proudly take our
friends and our friends’ friends to hear it, and then
we shall all want refreshments. Cunning of Mr.
Tollemache, isn’t it, dear ? But it’s a pleasant kind
of cunning.
I believe whole scenes of Mr. Searelle’s new
opera, “Bobabil,” are being photographed by
Tuttle and Co., so. if I can get hold of any, I will
send you one, so that you may form some sort of
an idea of what the opera is like, and also see how
good-looking ;Mr. Harding is. Mr. Searelle evi-
dently knows what pleases the public, for this
opera not only draws good houses, but is likely to
run for some weeks to come. There goes the
dinner-bell, so I must away.
Yours ever,
MAB.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspondents who give neither name nor nom-de-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed .]
“Tyndall”: If we started to name the
noble British houses whose females in times past
(and present) have succumbed to Royal blandish-
ments, we wouldn’t know where to stop. Look
up Court memoirs for the last two hundred years
or so, and skim through Thackeray’s “ Four
Georges.” If such a course of reading leaves a
bad taste in your mouth, and shakes your faith in
the hereditary principle of Government, don’t
blame us ...“Cicerone”: Send a few items, and
let us judge “Egremont": Received with
thanks.... “S.”: Thanks. Kept for Christ-
mas number “J.P.”: Received “Bags":
Your “Song of the Land Office Clerks” to hand.
It is suggestive—suggestive of congenital malfor-
mation of grey brain matter leagued with chronic
hydrocephalus and well-marked vertebral atony.
“ Then hail, ye mountains blue,
Ye forests, plains, heat (sic), too;
Ye hills and valleys, canes and scrub,
And snakies, how are you.”
We find your name to this, “ Bags ” Whisper—how
did you discover poetry was your line, youdorg ?...
"M. Christeen ’’(Sandhurst 1 : Regret we cannot
supply you with any information ...“W. Wiley”:
Received... “Mac”: Ca11..5.N.”; Correct. It
will be published, and as muoh more of the same
sort as you send. Remuneration? Certainly —
“ Student of Murderers’ Lore ” writes to say that it
was for the “ Whitechapel Tragedy,” and not for
the “Hoxton” murder, the brothers Wainwright
were convicted “Alfred Miller”: Pamphlet re-
ceived. May have something to say on it by-and-
bye....“ Hilarion”: It is very hard to say what
your chances of employment would be on a Sydney
newspaper. Your attainments would, of course, be
in your favour. Why not try some of the loading
Queensland journals? —“Jasey”: In type....
“Burrheed”: Used some of the prose; burnt ail
the poetry “ W.H.M.” (Bega) : Good concep-
tion, but the metre occasionally hobbles and the
rhyme is sometimes faulty. “It is a maiden
effort.” Then, it is a creditable one. You remem-
ber Voltaire’s confessing that his polished French
was due to his constant failures? Twig?....
“Briton”: The contest is by no means ended by
the Lords passing the Franchise Bill. The English
people are determined that “ privilege ” must go
under. A lot of things will go under with it. A
cute fellow like you might be able to guess some of
them. The “ Crown,” did we hear you say ? There s
no fear of that—it’s safe, anyway. (Here, minion,
bring us a cheroot and a pint’o “ w0110p.’)....
“ Selector ”: What do we think of the Land Bill ?
As if you didn’t knowl Why, we think-er-yes -
that it passed. ..."Inquirer”: Veni, vidi, vici,
is a Latin expression, first used, we believe, by
Sir Henry Parkes after the last East Bydney elec-
tion. Literally translated, it means “There's no
gammon about it.” “Waverley”: You are
quite wrong. Sir James Martin nsver lost office
through playing pitch-and-toss on Sunday, and
never “ rang in the tail grey.” The story is a pure
invention from beginning to end “Music :
Who was the best baritone ever appeared in Aus-
tralia? It would be very hard to say; but the
general publio have long since come round to
the opinion that Mr. Labertouche is well to
the front. He received many marks of favour
both here and in Melbourne. Those that were
made with asphalte ho still carries—the tur-
nip ones wore off after a bit....” Housekeeper :
A ton of feathers weighs nearly twice as much as
a ton of coal or wood. Ask any wood-and-coal
merchant....“ Reader”: Young man, you’ll come
to no good. So you want a Sunday newspaper,
poor thing. Well, you won’t get one—at least not
till a visitation of small-pox or cholera or bricks
nils a couple of hundred rose-wood, silver-
mounted, satin-lined ooffinß with leading citizens.
“Sunday journals are universal in Europe (includ-
ing England) and America.” Are they ? What is
that to us? People who civilise by means of the
triangle and the cat-o’-nino-tails can do without
Sunday papers “F. Mole”: Your letter is too
long. Write more concretely, and you shall have a
sho w.... “ Vox Populi ”: There are seven regiments
of Foot Guards ..."R. Strauss”: No; anl.o.u.is
not a promissory note; it is merely a memoran-
dum, and is not negociable—“ Scotus (Bunda-
berg): We believe we have treated the matter.
Thanks, You write, “If this is the state of things
in Russia, then ‘Godsp-ed the Nihilists. Well,
if such be the state of things in Russia, you might
be quite assured that God wIU speed the Nihilists.
Further, there seems no room for doubt that this
is the state of things in Russia.
BRIEF MENTION .
What’s in a name? Letters.
The town and country journal: The Bul-
letin.
Not vrorth the space it “commands”: A
Holy Howl “ leader.”
The Rum soribe, whose tailor refused him
clothes on tick, says he was non-suited.
A Paddington man named his twin boys
“Facts,” because they are “stubborn things.”
Freckles were fashionable last summer in
America. Wo wonder if ever stonebreakers’ warts
will get a show.
The Yass band performed in the open air
recently. The leader is an undertaker, and possibly
has trade in his eye.
(Supposed) remark of Sir ’Enery Parkes on
entering a country pub.: “ Have you accommoda-
tion for the Knight ?”
A Viotorian legislator exchanged a pot of
white paint for green. This is the first time he has
ever been known to “change colour.”
Stockings are to be dispensed with in
England shortly. The sterner sex will now look
forward with pleasure to windy weather.
Excited Salvationist: “ Brethren, be honest,
be strong-willed, be faithful, and ” (as a diseased
egg collided with his nasal organ) “be d—d I”
A religious paper says that George Wash-
ington was never guilty of lying. Does our con-
temporary mean to state that George slept standing
up ?
A conscientious suburban clergyman im-
bibes his wine with closed eyes, so as to esoape
being reprimanded for “ looking on the wine when
it is red.
One of Alfred’s scribes has had a stroke
of adverse luok. He purchased a pair of stockings,
and his father disinherited him for reckless ex-
travagance.
“What shall we do with John—he appears
to be the fool of the family ?” said Mrs. Jones, the
other day. “Oh, make a Holy Howl editor of
him,” replied paterfamilias.
The new Bishop of Riverina is to live near
a Brewery. God works for the best. It would be
hard lines if the Bishop’s jug had to be carted
through the streets on a Sunday.
Some evil-disposed person (probably a free-
thinker) knocked a shingle off the roof of a Wes-
leyan suburban church the other night. The
church is now a shingle short!
At Tanja, last week, a child, in resting its
weary head, placed it on that of a snake. We’ve
heard of them editing the Bourke papers in this
way—by the “ laying ”of heads together.
An Englishman has died at Marseilles,
apparently of cholera. There is, however, some
doubt in the matter, for in his pockets were found
a large number of Salvation Army tracts.
A red-nosed man went into a Pitt-street
hotel the other day, and blandly requested the
barmaid to give him some “ Cork whisky.” He got
it—two pieces of cork to the half-ounce of liquor.
A book will shortly be issued, entitled
“Letters from Hell.” It would be advisable to
wait till M’Elhone oould assist in the compilation.
We’d read it then, and perhaps sympathise with
Mac.
A paragraph is published in the Adelong
Argus in which pleasure is expressed at the “ h*nt
about the cemetery being taken.” Why wouldn’t
it be ? The Adelontr people want to make things
as comfortable as they can for the Argus staff.
He was a cattle-man, and in the train he
planted his enormous hoof on the bes.utifully-
varnished footlet of the exquisite opposite him.
Said the swell, at last, “ Don’t you think I had
better put my feet on yours ? There's more room."
The smartest compositor in the typo-
graphical error business is employed by the Mary-
borough (Q.) Chronicle. He set up a sentence
that a horse, startled by something, turned and
made a colt. This is finding a mare’s nest with a
vengeance.
In New York there are thirty widows
worth more than a million dollars. It would be
interesting to know how many times the “ hubs.”
went broke for their respective amounts, and
what (as a finish) was the average numner of their
congregations.
A man weat to a dentist, and got him to
pull a stumn. Then he refused to pay the fee (a
shilling), and gave the dentist’s assistant a thrash-
ing. We are glad to find that someone has at last
arisen to punish dentists for the oruelties indicted
by them on the human race.
As if Webb, of the Campbelltown Herald,
had not enough trouble already! On hia arrival
from Sydney, the local band met him and played
“ Wait till the clouds roil by.” We don’t think
now that the case should require a second hearing,
and we await the announcement that defendant
has “gone to a higher tribunal ” with dread.
Apropos of the execution of Edwards in
N.Z. for the murder of his wife and four children,
an English paper says: “ A hangman disguised by
false Dundreary whiskers, is not altogether, one
would think, a fitting accompaniment to so solemn
an occasion. A little more latitude in this direc-
tion. and we shall hear from N.Z. of a hangman
carrying out the last sentence of the law in the
costume of a pantomime olowh.” We venture to
remark that should the hangman appear disguised
as a clown, the culprit won’t laugh at his little
choke.
“Never was in such a fix in my life,” said
one of Alfred’s bards, telling to an apathetic audi-
ence, a wild Evunnoozer about some imaginary
adventure of his*own; “had to hold on by the
hair of my teeth for two hours.” "You were
lucky in having such a strong hold,” said Shirker,
of the Lands, vocally italicising the last words of
the sentence, as he glanced at the gates that
barred the saveloy cemetery whence the fables
flowed. But to this day the child of song has not
found out what it was that made them all laugh so
confoundedly.
The Sydney correspondent of the Southern
Argus writes to his influential journal concerning
the Evening News. And Alfred falls into the
trap, and republishes the following inter alia:—
“ The founder of the Evening News must have
been a man truly great.” “And no one who had
noticed the pitiless logic of its (the News’)
masterly leaders - [on dump carts]—or the slashing
r ‘Cklessness which marks its ‘ Brevity’ column—
[Coriolanus!]—can question the justice of Mr.
Smith's estimate.” From time to time in our
small way we’ve tried to work up a little thing
about Alfred and the Noose, when copy wasn’t
coming in fast enough. But we were never bitter.
How the Southern Argus man must have
brooded over some real or fancied injury when he
could callously sit down, and take such a deadly
revenge I


"The Bulletin” Prize Statue Competition.
It may not be generally known that Tiie Bulletin offered a prize some time since for a design for a statue of some sort, to be plaoed upon the pedestal in King-street, origin-
aiiy intended for the Queen’s statue. All efforts to seoure a satisfactory statue of Her Majesty have failed. The fact is, Her Majesty has been found to be totally unsculpable
at this distance; so it occurred to us, that by choosing a subject nearer home this pedestal, upon which we have paid taxes so long, might have an occupant. “We have,
thought we, “plenty of more or less great men knocking about, and all more or less statuesqueand it was only reserved for great minds, such as oontrol the destinies of The
Bulletin, to find ways and means of supplying a “long felt want.”
We therefore, offered a prize of a few millions sterling, for a design to be competed for by all-oomers, only stipulating that the artist and the subject be Australasian. Paltry
as the sum we offered was, we have been flooded with models, all good; but our limited space will only admit of us placing a few before the world
1. “The Mythological Cheque Writer.” Design by Sir H. Parkes.
2. “ Cupid.” Designed by R. B. Smith.
3. Equestrian statue, “Lives of Great Men all Remind Us.” By John Lucas.
4. ‘‘ Wholesome Fun.” By Dan. O’Connor.
5. “Diogenes Looking for an Honest Man.” By J. Davies, C.M.G.
G. “High Art.” By our own Art Staff.
7. “ Eloquence.” By Sir John Robertson.
8. “A Mudgee Statesman in the Springtime of his Career reflecting upon Future Greatness—if he takes care of himself.” By A. G. Taylor.
9. “ A Great Undertaking.” By N. Melville.
10. “I Want to be An Angel.” By J. M'Elhone (this design came by cable).
11. “ Tempos Mutantur.” By D. Buohanan.
12. “ Art Enlightening the World.” By E. Combes, C.M.G.
Note.—We have not yet quite decided upon the merits of any of the models, but we rather think No. 6 will take the gate-money.


'I »
S
m
m
n
Queensland Cure
Asthma, Bronchitis
M
Coughs,
AND ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS.
PREPARED ONLY BY
INGHAM
St
%
&
S&3'. ,3&>si
UMBRELLAS
STUDY ECONOMY
and
HaveyourUmbrella Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
541 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sts.
Parasols made to match cos-
turn e«. Repairs neatly exe-
cuted
ALEX. 10RTHW1GK,
Importer of
Plate, Sheet, and Ornamental Glass,
OIL & COLOR MERCHANT,
PAINTER AND DECORATOR,
Glass Silvever, Beveller, and Embosser.
A large stock of Paperhangings of the most
beautiful designs ever seen in the colonies.
Patterns sent post free.
281 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Hunter Street.
G. F. PRIBDY & GO.,
m GEORGE STREET,
HAVE THE
Largest and Best-selected Stock
of Hats in Sydney.
@"HATS MADE TO ORDER.
Ahe the Best London Makes Imported.
438 CEOROE STREET,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
W. M.' WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
Enclisli Papers and Magazines received by
every S 3 all.
ROYAL ARCADR. OKORGB <ST.. 498 SYDNHY.
$
a>-
a
3
.o
£
MARK
TRAOt
*0
*C
*Ai
■A
•*v/
-O
(2
S5
JZNcs CROSS
9 n d 93-
BULL DOG ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling-, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
iSaODM UTVSTTOIIAV
J.V
suv9i3 jo xoa V
iixrmoajs ano
•Auojoo aqj up
SLNawaam&aa .saaMOws onv ooovaoi
jo juani
-jiossY JSBH pun jsaSaßi; oqj jdaq sq him eaaqAi
‘saaqurgqo s.lins.iajjßj, jxa.M
CS
‘TIVIC TOI
jb ‘sasnuaJß pajnnjis
-XljßJjnao pub AiaK aBNGdO ‘sno.ijiid TIT
Hmwaama jo jsanbaj eqj jb *SBq aM VON 'H-I/W-
-■ay ‘sooovqo£ ‘sjvßi
ao aadjaoawi
‘RHYOM T
“ A thing of beauty is a joy for ever.”
CALL and view the Works of Art displayed in
Christmasand New Year’s Cards.
Christmas Cards. Christmas Cards.
The Largest and Choicest Variety ever
Displayed in Australia.
Hand Painted, Ivory Gelatine, Satin, Peush.
Photographic Cards, and a host of others, too
numerous to particularize.
Cards fro‘m ‘!d. per dozen to 10s. each.
T. L. 'SMITH,
Royal Book and Picture Promenade ,
418 and »»!> Ge»rs?e-sl rcet,
Near Royal Hotel.
PEAPES & SHAW, George Street,
EREBY/ NOTIFY THAT THEY HAVE JUST RECEIVED, EX MAIL S.S. ORIENT AND
MIRZAPORE,
The Most Beautiful Assortment of Fancy Boosts
it has ever been their good fortune to have to submit to the Australian Public, suitable
H
The Useful as well as the Beautiful.
SUITABLE WEDDING PRESENTS ! SUITABLE CHRISTENING PRESENTS !
CHARMING BIRTHDAY PRESENTS!
It is simply impossible in an advertisement to enumerate the endless variety, we therefore respect-
fully invite our friends io inspect our Windows and walk through our Showrooms and Shop, where
they wii) always find attentive and obliging assistants to attend them. •
PEAPES and SHAW have also opened a charming variety of White, Cream, Ficelle, and Coloured
LACE GOODS; Beautiful Fabric and French KID GLOVEs; An Exquisite Assortment of Ladies’and
Chl by!the
CLOTHING, for the Christmas trade.
Peapes and Shaw,
GEORGE STREET.
v ! <
Peapss and Shaw.
GEORGE STREET.
Peapes and Shaw’s “ Standard ” Ready-made Clothing.
SPECIAL NOTE.—We were the first to adopt the word “ Standard ”as a brand, together with the
Mercantile P lasr as our trade mark. We have, however, been copied by several other manufacturers.
We suppose we may take that as a compliment to the excellence of this particular class of goods. We
would simply suggest that customers should see that our name is on the ticket, as well as our trade matk.
G'E N TLE MEW’S' SUMMED
“STANDAKD” TWEED
SUITS, EXCELLENT CUT and
• WELL MADE
355., 425,, 455., 505.,
555., 635.
Tweed Sac Coate, 18s. 6d., Sis.; Tweed Office Coats,
Black Alpaca Sac Coats, 10s. 6d. to 15s. 6d.; Cash-
mere ditto, 18s. 6d.
White Linen Duck Coats, military![collars, 7s. 6d.
to 15s. 6d. , ' ,
White Flannel Cricketing Coats, 18s. 6d. each
Ditto ditto Trousers, 13s. 6d. pair
China Silk Sac and Dust Coats, from 15s 6d. to 21s.
Nicolle’s Frock Coats, Nicolle’s Walking Suits
Nicolle's Summer Overcoats, from 365. to 50s.
The New “ Antipluvium” Waterproof Coat, weight
only 7 ounces, the lightest waterproof made
White Linen Vests,.9s. 6d. each. 3 for 275.
The New “ Masher” White Dress Vest, button low
Oxford Dressing Gown, specially suitable for this
climate in the summer.
PE APES and SHAW, GEORGE STREET,
PEAPES and SHAW’S JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boys’ and Youths’ Tweed Sac Suits, from 21s to 355.
Boys’ and Youths’ superior Worsted Suits, 395. 6d.
Boys’ and youths’ Tweed Trousers, 7s. 6d. and
Bs. 6d. pair
Boys’ & Youths’ Alpaca Coats, 7s. 6d. & Bs. 6d. each
Boys’ and Youths’ White DuckCoais. (is. tjd each
Boys’ Man-of-War Trouser Suits, 93. 6d. to 18s. (id.
each
Boys’ Blue Serge, Cheltenham, Imperial, Norfolk,
Military, and other Fancy Tweed Suits, new
shapes.
CHRISTY’S HATsi 'CHRISTY’S HATS.
A o have now the latest Shapes for the Summer
Season, made specially light for us, to suit
the climate.
Black Silk Hats, Drab Pullovers, Drab Shells
Black, Drab, Brown, and Slate Felts, from 7s. 6d.
to 13s. 6d.
Soft Felt Hats, in all colours and shapes
RUSTIC HATS, all colours, suitable for cricket,
Lawn Tennis, Boating, &e., Is. Od. each
Cricketing Caps, Travelling Caps, Polo Caps, Fez
Caps.
PORTMANTEAU DEPARTMENT.
Travelling Trunks, Dress Trunks, Iron Trunks I
Portmanteaus, every size and shape I
Travelling Rugs, Silk
Gladstone Bags, fitted and unfitted
Brief Bags, Deed Bags, Satchels. Bug Straps
Wraps, and Mauds.
-aoaoao ‘A\.VHS para
HEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
Aie Wo-w Opean..
Barry's Tricopherous!
Guaranteed to make the hair grow on bald heads,
to eradicate scurf and dandruff, and remove all
impurities from the scalp. It positively prevents
the hair from falling out or turning gray, and in
every case makes it thick, soft, glossy, and
abundant.
Barry's Florida Water!
The Original and the Best.. The only perfume
in the world that has received the endorsement of
a Government. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffuung and On.
W. H. iLriell & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 3001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
34,34, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates, Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYDNEY.
P. KIEBI,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TJ" xx cLexta."ser.
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
sniHE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
1 (Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH D E POT
AT
No. 23 HojaS Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
FUHE lOTMTBY HEILiC.
THE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PUBIS,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the use of cream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart; city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & ice Co., Limited,
Head Office ... 31 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-strect.
Factory .. ... .. ... Mittagong.
C. GOSILES,
GTJNMAKER & IMPORTER,
.. .
EH
IffiSa
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia,
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE 6TREEI.
N.B.— Second-hand Guns by. best makers.
d* ridge
FOOD
tor INFANTS mb INVALIDS
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
r THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 13months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
T. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
SCOTCH WHISKEY 1
0* THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. Hv£sut\a.red.
QTJAUTY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BIS OTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
SOS Oeorgs Sfjfesif
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Exy ert at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, therefore, rely that it
has not been in the hands or “F'hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule
Da I# Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1869.
INCORPORATED BY ACT O F PARLIAMENT, 1871
Paid-up Capital £300,008
Reserve Fund £138,000
Directors i
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidiey King, M.L.C
C. Rolleston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
0 ——.
General Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson,
Secretary:
Hector Allan.
Branches in New South Wai.es :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone.
Gosford, Nyngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
T3risV)£i"6
London Branch : 158 LeadeahaU-street.
Directors:
Edward Chapman, Esq. | Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.O 1 Geo. H. Alexander, Es
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the moat favourable terras
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo!
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
SuSpiiollne
a pa a
Lotion,
THE CURE FOR SKIN DISEASES!
In a few days Eruptions, Pimples, Blotches entirely
fade away. Beautifully fragrant. Perfectly harm-
less. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonish-
ing- results follow- It removes every kind e!
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the Skit
clear, smooth, supple, a* d healthy. Suipholins
Lotion is sold by rhost Chemists. Bottles, Ss 91
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co:, London
PEPPER'S
QUININE & IRON
HEALTH.
STRENGTH.
ENERGY
TONIC.
Glt RAT BODTLN s-TKENGTH !
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH !
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH !
G RE AT DIGESTIVE S'l RENGTH follows the use
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. II
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression.
&0., Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Or. eat -affections,
ami wasting diseases. * Bottles, 32 doses. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper’s.
Made sole'y' by J. PEPPER and Co., London.
Special’y suitable for the colonies.
PEPPER’S •
TARAXACUM
aid podophyllui.
'A FLUID LIVER Mf IMOINE, MADE FROM
DANDELION AND MANDRAKE ROOTS.
Of Great Value for tho Colonies.
Good for Liver Disorder, Indigestion, Dyspepsia.
The best Antibiiious Remedy, Without a par riele
of Mercury. Safest and surest Stomach and Liver
Medicine. Clears the Head and cures Headache.
Regulates the Bowels. Removes Heartburn. Fla-
tulence, Torpidity. Bottles, 13 doses. Sold by
most Chemists. Insist that Pepper’s issupplied. .
ZHiOcfe^er’s
SULFEUS
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour in a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is, 63. Made in London.
R
m:
T
£
fNDEMNIl YC0 Y (LIMITED)
WmmManuyer f>
Plot :g<*


The London and Liverpool Watch Gompany
i
*
27 de. 27
The Manufacturers of the above Watches have OPENED a BRANCH at
the above address, where the people of New South Wales can
PURCHASE a SINGLE WATCH at the MANUFACTURERS’ PRICE.
First-class, Sound, Strong, Sterling Silver Hunting English Lever, Capped and
JeweSßed, for £3 10s., warranted for 5 years.
27
Me THE LONDON AND LIVERPOOL WATCH COMPANY ’
FOR GENERAL DEBILITY AND NERVOUSNESS,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and Chemists.
DRINK IT I
BRINK IT t
DRINK IT I
DEINK IT I
urn i
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.
(OPPOSITE WYNYAKD STREET.)
9
si AH AND DARTED HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Tms Pntel is central!y situated, being close to Post and Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway, &c.
Snrvrior Accommodation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. First-class Wines and Spirits,
mofflt Commodious Private Bar in the city. Albert S. Mandersand Co.’s telegrams
supplied. Sporting telegram l -' from, all parts of the colony posted up.
St. PAUL’S LAGER BEER
Sole Agents— LESLlE McLAKEN, & CO.,
247 George Street.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR
COCOA!
j. s. FEY & SON’S, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt tban a pint of the best ale or porter. Lancet.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
EfiO
MBBK
I
ORIT.E
•’BtAKDYflfl*
*
f&osda
tUn&U
It ia of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared^ asdargc
quantities are being- imported mto New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
oareLOUNK HIGHLAND WHISKY with any of
the other brands, when they will
of at least 10 per cent, m favour of LORNE HIG H-
LAND WHISKY. ,
VIRGOE, SON, AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS.
Ctiampagne
Heldsleck & Go’s.
BEY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
EAMUBL RXCHARBS & Co., London.
X‘j"»ntP tor Heidsieck <& Qo., Reims.
ErS&i PEMELL’ S
EXTRA SUPERFINE
IT IS MADE FBOM THE BEST WHEAT
U a Mill reple te with the newest and most,approved.
New Process Machinery.
The PRICE is VERY LOW. and the QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VICT ( ’BIA FLOUR MILL,
831 Gcorge-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
IIfJIILILACH BROTH IE BS.
MASON BROTHERS,
ill STO
pff
B
>r< '■
LIMITED,
14 and 16 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALB
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS’
Old Highland Whisky.
J. 80RIN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J. T. GAYEN’S
Sobnapps and Geneva.
A. BONB’
Edinburg n Pale 4 >e.
aftem before
Copyrighted.
MOUSTACHE and WEI3EEBS.
Boyd’s Beard FMxir did this, and
will do it on either bald head or
bare fare. Forces heavy Mous-
tache in 4 weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young men already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, ter tain in effect,
each, 3 for 3a. Gd.,post paid, sent under cover, free from\observation»
f Address, Frank Douglas, Sole Agent, Box 730, G.P.0., Sydney,N.B.W'
BEFORE A pTEn
ss
Copyrighted.
Packets la. &f.
Robert butcher & co.
(Late William Long),
tar WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOBITE THE TOWN HALL, BYDNBY
Country Orders reoelve prompt attent
USE NOTHING BUT
STANDARD MIKED PAINT.
HAS NO DIRT NOR HARD LUMPS IN IT.
RESISTS HEAT AND WATER.
Anyone Can Apply It.
Factory: COWPER WHARF, SYDNEY.
See Evening News advt.
BLAKE’S IMPROVED
STEAM PUMPS.
Si P. GREGORY & GO*
17 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY,
i
ARE SOLE AGENTS EOR THE ABOVR
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS '
COM BINED AIR & CIRCULATING PUMP
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTICULARS
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FREE.
BLEND
[trade)
Af*
JLI
COLLIE BLEND WHISKY.-This is a BL*g
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies,
billing fulness of body, with piquancy andaen<^t, e
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO.. 0
Agents.
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
manufacturer of all kinds of /Erated Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Wigorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Gold Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, & c -
