

ieS4s. ISS4: '
MTUffll 10UEKI k m
9
THE LARGEST DRAPERY ESTABLISHMENT
AND THE
Assortment of G-oods
t
IN THE
— - 1 - 1 - —— 1 - ~
Anthony hordern and sons,
’A* 'S. . ,v
PALACE EMPORIUM, HAYMARKET, ONLY,
T’KOTTIIDEISS.
4rft now Showing a Most Magnificent STOCK of GOODS in every one of our tliirty-six departments, comprising all the
FELTIES and the MOST APPROVED FASHIONS from London and Paris, in
*Mli
LATEST NOVELTIES and the MOST APPROVED FASHIONS from London and Paris, in
* ' * f V -V „« » ,> .
Dresses, Silks, French and English Slillinery, Parachutes and Sunshades, Gloves, Ribbons, Laces
a . lists, Weils, and the innumerable accessories to fashionable attire.
iSLi -y ; < v
P e ndid Assortment of English-made FURNITURE, Electro-plated Goods, Carpets, Bedsteads and Bedding, Chinaware and
Glassware, not equalled in Sydney for Price or Quality. ■ ¥ ,
SHOYv r CASES are filled with the choicest products of the leading manufacturing centres, and are alone worth a visit.
OUR ONLY ADDRESS—
ANTHONY HORDERN AND
\ Palace Emporium, Haymarket, Sydney.
A-A A '
\\ 'it
B
The Bulletin NEW SERIES


■V.
is cm
PALACE of New South Wales,
■«J-€> S 3 M -
EXTTIWESEt’O
EXTENSIVE SHIPMENTS OE SUMMER GOODS.
JOHN HUNTEB has much pleasure in informing his numerous patrons that, having received (direct from the manufacture;
of England and the Continent of Europe) several very large shipments of superior-made Boots and Shoes, embracing the W :
novelties for Ladies’, Gent.’s, and Children’s wear, will sell them at prices never before heard of m New South Wales. Theenormo.
increase of trade, consequent upon the Low Prices charged for hrst-class goods, has necessitated an additional statt of
and those who favour him with their custom will he sure of receiving thorough satisfaction.
Orders fiom the country, accompanied by a P. 0.0. or stamps, receive prompt attention.
The City Boot Palace is" crowded from morning until night, proving beyond dispute its increasing popularity.
eiBBS, BRIGHT & GO., 93 Pitt-street, Merchants, Ship-
ping and Commission Agents,
And at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, and DUNEDIN.
ANTONY GIBBS, SONS & CO., LIVERPOOL AND BRISTOL.
ANTONY GIBBS Sc SONS, LONDON.
GIBBS & CO., VALPARAISO.
Principal Agencies :
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OP CANTON-Head Office : HONGKONG
J. C. Goatling and Company (Limited)—Portland Cement.
The Tunnel Portland Cement Company (Limited)—Portland Cement „ -R>nD-lr««*i
Marshall, Sons and Company (Limited), Gainsborough—Portable Horizontal,and Vertical EpglnOi,
Thrashing Machines, Sa w Benches, &c., &e. _ _ ,
Cross!ey Brothers (Limited), Manchester—The celebrated “Otto Silent Gas Engines.
Bow, MH-achlan and Company, Paisley—Sugar Machinery, Launch Engines, &c., See.
Thos. Glover and Company, London—Patent Dry Gas Meters.
Vivian and Sons—Yellow Sheathing Metal.
Fenyrorsedd Slate Company (Limited)— Bangor Slates.
The Quicksilver Mining Company, San Francisco—Quicksilver.
Eels and Company, of Patras and Corfu—Currants.
Thos. Bell and Co.— English Hams, Bacon, &c., &c.
kpd Cross Preserving Company, Victoria —Jams, Jellies, Pickles, Sauces, &c. _ A
De Wendel a-rpl Company, Hayange, Prance —Bar, Rod, and Sheet Iron, Boiler Plates, Iron and
Thos Perry and Son, Biiston— Fire-resisting Safes. Drybrough and Co.j Edinburgh—Ale.
Brunton and Co., Redruth—Patent Safety Fuse. Thos. N. Hunt—Port \v info
Dubos Freres, Bordeaux—Clarets, Chablis, Sauternes
COLONIAL PRODUCE AGENCIES. . _ „
New South Wales.— Scott and MuUaly, T. Allsop, F. J. O’Leary and Co., Cox Bros., Graham Bros.,
Jl Victoria — James Fry and Co., W. and A. Reid, D. G ibson.
South Australia.— w. C. Harrison and Co., Truslove and Addison, H. Hincks.
k m- INDENTS executed, on the most favourable terms, from all parts of the world. Consignments
of produce received for shipment to London, under liberal advances.
MEINRATH AND CO.,
96 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
San Francisco Palace of Art,
LATE
BCYD.
i‘hfl natrons of the SAN FRANCISCO PALACE OF ART, so well known throughout
the Australian colonies, are informed that, in addition the same high-class portrait
work for which it has been noted,
Copies and Enlargements to Life Size, by new and improyed pro-
cesses, from any photograph or negative, are now taken.
Opals, Autotype, Transfer, or Albuminized Paper, in Crayon or Coloured.
The same staff of Artists, who have rendered the work of this establishment famous,
are employed, and all negatives (15,000 in number) taken during the past four years, carefully
preserved, from which copies may be had on application by sending name and address.
W. T. BENNETT, Manager.
3=»„ ~ M..
IMPORTER OF WINES & SPIRITS,
Beg's to announce to his town and country friends, that he has Just completed
extensive additions to his
Wholesale and Retail Bottle Departmed
Which is now replete with a well-assorted stock of the Best Brands of Wines and Spirits, per® 0 {{
selected by the proprietor during his recent visit to Europe. He can therefore confidently recoin
the quality, and by charging a reasonable price, as per the following list, hopes to merit a share 0 1
patronage, which has hitherto been so liberally extended to him.
PALE BRANDY. Per Bottle.
s <1
Gilbey’s very old Brandy, gold top .. ..66
Hennessy’s V .0. ((very old) bottled by P. R. L. 6 0
Hennessy’s 3 Star (***) 6 6
Dubois and Co.’s Old *** Pale 6 6
Fine Old ’Pale, bottled by P. R. L. .. ..66
Hennessy’s Battle Axe (*) 5 0
Martell’s Blue Label (*) .. .. .. ..60
Flasks .. .. 2s 3d and 2 6
Half-tlasks 16
Hennessy’s Draught Pale Brandy, per Impe-
rial quart 6s and 5 0
DARK BRANDY.
Hennessy’s 8 Star (***) 6 6
Martell’S Very Old *** .. . . 6 6
Martell’s Old 5s and 4 0
Martell’s Dark, per Imperial quart .. ..60
Flasks .. •• 2b (id and 2 3
LOWNDE’S W. I. RUM.
DARK.
Quality—Good
Better
Still Better
Quality—No. 1, per Imperial quart
No. 2, ~ ~
No. 3,
No. 4,
Flasks
..2 0
..2 6
.. 3 0
6s and 6 0
..4 6
.. 4 0
3s and 3 6
Is Od and 2 6
JAMAICA RUM.
PALS.
Yery Finest .. ~4 0
Red Heart 4 6
Fine Jamaica, per Imperial quart .. .. 5 0
Jamaica Rum, in Flasks .. .. 2s6dand 2 3
BEERS (BRITISH).
Best Brands of Ales and Porters always on band.
ALBURY (N.S.W.) WINES.
Burgundy
Ettamogah, red ..
„ Muscat ..
„ Iteisling ..
Fallon’s Shiraz ..
f* *>
quarts
pints
3
2
2
2
1
PORT WINE.
PerF
40-year old, Giibey’a
Celebrated Pour Diamond ..
Quality—No. 1 (very superior old)
No. ***** grape .. .. .. >,
No. *+** '
No. ***
No. **
No. * ...
.Draught Port Wine, per Imperial quart
SHERRY.
40-year old, Gilbey’s
Very Finest Amontillado (very dry) ...
Pine Amontillado ...
Celebrated Pour Diamond Sherry
Common Sherry.. ... .
Draught Sherry Wine, per Imperial quart j
BRITISH WINES.
James Heddle’s Ginger Wine
Orange Wine
IRISH WHISKY. |
Jameson’s *** !
Old Dublin Whisky (***) bottled by Burke
Kinahan’s unrivalled LL ... *
Bs6d<
Thorne’s Old Irish Whisky ...
Jameson’s
Dunville’s j|
Kinahan’s Draught, per Imperial quart * () ;
SSS 0 "' 8 ... ” :• *««*»•
SCOTCH WHISKY. .!
Walker’s 7-year old, la bulk
Thistle Blend
Royal Blend
Lome Highland
Kilmarnock , L .
Glenlivet 8s
Glenlivet Whisky, per Imperial quart
Flasks ... 3s
GIN.
Blue Bell or Yellow Seal Geneva a cl>:
Celebrated Key Brand, very large elze, * ~,;
bottle containing more than a quart
Flasks Key Gin
4S&P
d» p
f
Wedding-and Picnic Parties supplied with Wines and Spirits of the best quality, all retu 1
allowed for. Oases of Wines and Spirits, assorted to suit purchasers, and delivered at
Station or any wharf in the city, or any country station, Free of Charge. jj/
P. It. LARKIN’S CASE OF ASSORTED WINES AND SPIRITS—On receipt of £3, the * A
genuine articles will be forwarded in Square Bottles, securely packed in a case:—
5 Quarts KEY GIN, 1 Quart WHISKY, 1 Quart SUPERIOR V
2 Quarts PALE BRANDY, 5 Quarts WEST INDIA RUM, 1 Quart SUPERIOR ,
10TAL- 15 QUARTS.
The articles contained in P. R. L.’s Assorted Cases are ail guaranteed of the best qualitJT&t
given perfect satisfaction to purchasers in every instance. To prevent delay, please make 1
Orders payable at the Haymarket Post Office.
Kindly Note the Address— Jr
P. R. LARKIN, Wholesale & Retail Wine & Spirit Merchant A i^P 0
George and Gipps Sts., Haymarket, Syda^


The Bulletin
8 gVol. I.— No.37.—New Series
SATURDAY, JANUARY 26, 1884.
Price—6d.
THE CIRCULATION OF “THE BULLETIN ”
TS NOW MORE THAN DOUBLE THAT OF
ANY OTHER WEEKLY NEWSPAPER IN
N.S.W.-THAT OF ONE VERY OLD ESTAB-
LISHED PAPER, WHICH EXCEEDS “ THE
BULLETINS" BY ABOUT ONE-FIFTH
ALONE EXCEPTED. THE CIRCULATION
OF “THE BULLETIN" IS THE SECOND
GREATEST AMONG THE WEEKLIES OF
AUSTRALASIA.
The Bulletin.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 26, 1884.
Pity ’tis, ’tis True.
The Soudan business would probably be re-
cognised as “ajudgment” had it been the
French,, and not the English, who seized
Egypt. The sequences of events frequently
bring to mind the lines of Walter Scott
“ Oh, what a tangled web wo weave
When first we practice to deceive.”
Our filibustering expedition to Egypt is
bearing bitter fruit. The whole history is
pitiful; and, were it not that history is but
one long record of similar infamies perpe-
trated by every civilised country and Go-
vernment in turn, one might feel ashamed of
being an Englishman. The trouble began a
couple of hundred years ago, when a parcel
of piratical traders—and, in the good old
days, there was very little distinction be-
tween a merchant and a buccaneer—forced
a footing in Hindostan. and ended by be-
coming, under the style of “The Honourable
East India Company,” masters of almost
the entire peninsula, with a private army
and a navy of their own a legalised
force of highly respectable and socially
recognised pirates and buccaneers the
servants of no State, Government, or
Sovereign, but situ ply of the Board of
Directors in Leadenhall-street, London. In
due course of time, the arrogance, oppres-
siveness, and plundering of these highly
reputable buccaneers, being utterly intoler-
able to the native people and princes who
had been plundered and superseded, pro-
voked a desperate effort to cast off their
yoke, accompanied by the horrible outrages
and excesses which invariably attend the
insurrection of a people Avho have been long
crushed under systematic outrage and
habitual excesses. The buccaneers, how-
ever, had by this time identified themselves
with our nation. The spoil was so immense,
and the task of guarding it so arduous, that
an immense number of fingers were in the pie.
The British nation thrust the buccaneering
Board on one side, and adopted its responsi-
bilities and the dry rind which was left of
its squeezed provinces. The Indian national
revolt was crushed; and, as there were still
pickings for younger sons, and a consider-
able remnant of plunder for a favoured
few—albeit the unlucky natives just
managed to exist and pay taxes in good
seasons, and starved by millions and ab-
sorbed taxes in bad seasons—our rulers
olung to the stolen provinces.
• * •
A. Frenchman proposed to provide a short
cut from England to India. He was an
engineer, not then very eminent. Our very
eminent engineers laughed derisively at his
craze when he proposed to cut a canal
between two oceans. Our most distin-
guished statesman objected to the notion
altogether, on the not unsubstantial grounds
that the more practicable it was the more
objectionable it would be, inasmuch as we,
the greatest naval power in the world, had
complete 'supremacy on the ocean route to
our dependency, besides owning all the ports
on the way—St. Helena, the Cape, and
Mauritius. For these very reasons the
Emperor of the French favoured the
project, and gave it the support which
enabled the projector to accomplish it. j
A new and shorter road to India was
created, and at the moment that the sluices
admitted the waters of the Mediterranean
into the new channel, the current of British
diplomacy flowed violently and inevitably
in the same direction, and the Eastern
question took a permanent deviation to
East by South. The new waterway passed
through the Egyptian territory, and the
Egyptian people were at the time under the
rule of a foreign Prince—grandson of a
Turkish vice-regent, who had been at once
a usurper and a rebel. This Prince, himself
a feudatory of the Caliph and Sultan,
lent himself, or rather sold himself, to the
designs of the French. He permitted him-
self to be what was termed imbued with
the spirit of Western civilization and
policy. He undertook to develop the re-
MR. HENRY, HEYLYN HAYTER, GOVERNMENT STATISTICIAN, VICTORIA.
sources of his country, and to that end bor-
rowed money in magnificent style He de-
veloped the resources of his country by
introducing Italian opera and French bal-
let, by building numerous palaces, and
engaging in a variety of grand works, which
proved extremely profitable to everybody—
except his subjects. As the security he
offered was extremely good, being the in-
dustry of a most frugal, laborious, and
thoroughly broken-spirited people, and as
he was not at all particular what terms he
got so long as the money was forthcoming,
all the great usurers of Europe crowded
round him and thrust their purses into his
pocket, reselling and distributing his bonds
at their real value throughout France and
England, and thus making their repayment
a matter of national ooncern in two great
States. As the various loans became due for
repayment, the Prince, in the fashion fami-
liar to all spendthrift landlords, did not
abate his own extravagance, but squeezed
his people. Presently, however, these were
squeezed so hard, and the mortgaged
oountry was so swarming with “men
in possession ” living on the fat of
the land at ruinous cost, that the
Prince became uneasy and intractable. He
still squeezed the people all he dared, but
the limit of his courage was to squeeze
enough for his own necessities. Fearing the
effects of the despair of his racked people,
he began to counter-plot with them, and to
wink at dodges for not paying more than
suffioed for his own requirements. The in-
dignant holders of his promissory notes
thereupon moved their respective Govern-
merits, and got the Prince ejected, and his
son, who, in consideration of being allowed
to succeed to the encumbered estates, was
ready to accept a smaller allowance than bis
parent, and to lire a gilded existence with
bailiffs disguised as lackeys Financial
Advisers and Ministers of States were their
official designations—constantly surround-
ing him as part of his establishment, was
put in as Bailiff The creditors were better
paid, but the exactions upon the people
became intolerable; and at last, headed by a
man of resolute character, Ababi, they re-
volted against the frightful and insupport-
able system which reduced them to hopeless
misery and penury.
* * ■
At this crisis, the usurers were equal to
the occasion. They saw their viotima on the
point of escaping from their clutches, and
they raised a yell that England’s road to
India was in peril. Thereupon, by some
mysterious chance or device which only time
can elucidate, the Prime Minister of Eng-
land, a man whose whole life had been em-
bellished by his appreciation of the aspira-
tions of wronged and oppressed races, not
only admitted the validity of this fictitious
cry, but went to extraordinary lengths. He
might have secured command of the water-
way, and left the people, the Bailiff, and the
usurers to settle their own differences. But
he hotly adopted the usurers’ cause, sent
troops to maintain their Bailiff in possession,
and, after massacring a host of the luckless
wretches who had revolted against the most
grinding and heartless system of plunder
ever recorded, made the nation he led re-
sponsible for the security of the whole
country.
* * *
He lent his countenance to the re-organi-
zation of the squeezing system, and sanc-
tioned the appointment, as chief of the ex-
tortion corps, of a desperate adventurer, of
infamous character, a British Bashi-Ba-
zodk, who had been adjudged too ruffianly
to hold a commission in the British Army.
He placed at the head of the forces organized
to “ tranquillise ” the wretched Egyptians a
scoundrel whose chief notoriety was due to
the circumstances that even the restraints
of civilized society had been insufficient to
control his brutal passions, which, spurning
all considerations of consequences, had im-
pelled him to attempt, in time of peace, and
on a girl of his own nation, the outrage
which is ordinarily denounced, when perpe-
trated amidst the horrors of war, upon the
females of an enemy’s people, and which
considerate conquerors are especially care,
ful to spare a quelled enemy. It was as
though General HAYNAuhad been ajipointed
to restore confidence and win affection
among the Hungarians, after the repression
of a Magyar revolt—that General Haynau
who used to have women stripped and
flogged.
* • •
The father of the deposed Prince had made
a “ conquest ” far in the heart of Africa. A
conquest never consolidated. The conquest
of a territory constantly in revolt. When
we seized Egypt, its incumbrances and lia-
bilities devolved upon us. Our presence
intensified the revolt in these regions. Just
as we made a grimace of not being really
masters in Egypt and that our officers
were the servants, not the keepers of
that poor tool, the Khedive, so we
pretended that although the army sent
to quell the Prophet - Warrior of the
Soudan was led by British commanders* it
was no army of ours, and its fate conse-
quently not our concern. The rude shock
of a catastrophic defeat has shaken off these
flimsy pretences, and left us face to face with
an ugly alternative. To recover the re-
volted province is a task which would tax
our utmost resources and involve us in
complications of which no man can foresee
the end. To abandon the territory is to
incur the loss of prestige, not merely fan-
ciful but dangerously effectual wherever
we have to reckon with Mussulman popula-
tions. And not our own security in Eastern
countries alone is effected. The security and
repose of all Frankish nations similarly
situated with respect to Mahommedan races
is involved. The sucoess of the Mahdi shakes
not merely the Soudan, Nubia, and Egypt,
and India, but it moves the very bowels of
Algeria and Tunis, and through these coun-
tries affects France most vitally. It is doubt-
ful whether France, in fact, can afford to
stand quiescent and see the Soudan evacu-
ated. The involvements are stupendous.
One blunder one wicked blunder has
plunged the world into a frightful compli.
pation. Had our rulers been but content to


MS, IS, & CO.’S
BRIAN BORU
IS MANUFACTURED FROM THE
FINEST IRISH GRAIN.
It is bonded for several years before being bottled
or racked for export. When well matured by age,
it is carefully bottled under supervision of the
officers of H.M. Customs, and exported in enor-
mous quantities to all parts of the world.
AUSTRALIAN CONSUMERS will find BRIAN
BORU WHISKY pure, mellow, and wholesome.
The great demand for this OLD IRISH BRAND
in ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, and the COLONIES
is a sufficient guarantee for its quality.
SOLD by all leading Merchants throughout
the Colonies.
JAMES YOUNG,
SYDNEY,
SOLE REPRESENTATIVE IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
YOUNG, KING, & CO.,
DISTILLERS,
BELFAST, IRELAND.
YOUNG, KING, & CO. have never ex-
hibited their WHISKIES, and therefore
cannot boast of Gold Medals, &c.
Young, King, & Co.’s Lammermuir Blend fine old
SCOTCH WHISKY.
Young, King, & Co.’s 33 O.P. WEST INDIA RUM.
Wheeler & Co., world-famed Export Bottlers of
Bass’ Ale and Guinness’ Stout, and manufac-
turers of the celebrated Belfast GINGER ALE.
Sole Agent in Australia for above Brands
JAMES YOUNG,
7 & 9 CHANGE ALLEY, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 25 Flinders-street East;
ADELAIDE: Universal Buildings, Grenfell-street;
And at BRISBANE.
Coughs and Colds.
THE Best Cure for the above is Rum made hot
and taken at bed-time.
er pu RE RUM,
Extra Strong,
M. PER IMPERIAL QUART.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Siiglt Mil lijartmit,
MARKET STREET.
WHEN YOU VISIT SYDNEY,
GO TO
C. W. ROBERTS’ NEW BAR,
GEORGE STREET, NEAR MARKET STREET
where you can obtain for
A GLASS OF WHISKY, BRANDY, PORT
WINE, SHERRY, OR BEER,
of such a Quality that cannot be surpassed at any
other establishment in the world.
C. W. ROBERTS’
COLONIAL WINE DEPARTMENT,
is now open in
MARKET STREET.
RED or WHITE, only 3d. per tumbler,
Quality Superlative.
NONE but WINE the PRODUCT of AUSTRALIA
is sold in this department.
The most Wholesome of all Beverages.
0. W. ROBERTS’ SPECIAL WHISKY
4s. 6d. per bottle.
CLYNELISH WHISKY
6s. per bottle.
VERDEILHO,
Lovely White Wine, Is. 6d. per bottle.
PORT MACQUARIE RED WINE,
Is. 6d. per bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
2s. per bottle.
HENNESSY’S 3 STAR *** PALE BRANDY,
6s. od. per bottle.
C. W. ROBERTS
Uarket Street, Sydney.
seoure what alone was of national concern,
the Suez Canal, our road to India, Arabi
might have been master of Egypt, and,
supported by the enthusiasm of the people,
would have been either in a better position
to resist the Mahdi, or, if forced to suoeumb
to him in the Soudan, still remained firm in
Egypt. Loss of prestige to him by abandon-
ment of the Soudan would have caused no
agitation in the Mahommedan world. It
would'have been Mussalmen against Mussel-
man. And had tho Mahdi conquered in Egypt
itself, our rulers would have been in a position
either to treat with the victor, or, failing
that, to oppose to him a resistance along a
line of defence resting on the sea and
navigable waters, and, consequently, the
strongest we could desire, and almost in-
capable of being permanently broken.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Sheep and the Shepherd.
Or thirty English bishops, ten are disabled by age
and infirmity to discharge any episcopal duty, be-
yond feebly but prayerfully pocketing incomes
ranging from £1000 to £30,000 a year. The bulk of
this is the direet clip of the flock, but many of
their holinesses are also huge holders of city and
landed property—the investments of pious offer,
ings from men long since gone into the only bit of
freehold now open to the British born—the grave.
Thousands of the lower clergy, meanwhile, are paid
a stipend so miserable that a bricklayer here would
scorn to accept it; and, even of that pittance, he
has to give, winter after winter, to relieve cold
and starvation amongst the tenants of his holy
lordship. It is a known fact that, within a stone’s
throw of a Bishop’s palace, there are dens of the
lowest squalor; and, while the! surpliced Bishop
is warming his gouty old feet at the cheerful
Christmas fire, sipping his toddy, and dreamily
totting up his revenues, or revolving some
ingenious translation to show that Moses in-
vented the telephone, the chill winds, howl-
ing without, tear on their ruthless track
through the creaking doors and ragged windows
that mock with shelter the shivering wretch. The
hail that rattles on the pane gives new zest to the
lot of the holy man of God, as he draws up nearer
the fire. He recks not the hopeless misery at
hand, drawing its flimsy rags closer in, and moan-
ing away the dismal night ; or, if he thinks of
them, it is to project fresh levies on his flock—
anything, anything, but “ part ” with that miser-
able dross for which he clings to an office he has
long ceased to be able to fill. What does he care,
though hundreds of the ablest scholars and most
Christian of his clergy struggle with the direst
poverty ? The episcopal revenue is his. It’s the
right thing in’the pulpit to say that the fashion of
this world passeth away—that the love of money
is a sordid passion—and that, in a transitory life
like this, we should fix our eyes on the heavenly
Jerusalem. But it’s another thing when the angel
Gabriel appears unto him in a dream, and says :
“Just so, old man. Thou hast done some good
work. Take, I pray thee, enough to secure thee
thy three meals a day for thy few remaining
years; but hand over thy work to the
young, the strong, and the vigorous.” Time
was when to be a Bishop meant for pious
zeal to take the lead of the brethren in virtue of
self-denial and ability, but we manufacture
Bishops now as we manufacture brown soap. A
pudding-headed youth is born to a genteel family,
and stuffed with Latin and Greek, when he should
be carting manure or hawking fish. At twenty-
two or three, he has sprawled through a number of
examinations in Middle Age monkery, and he is
presented with a living and a cure of souls— souls,
mark you, when corns might have been the
manifest direction of Nature. Years go on, he
cures souls by keeping them asleep; he writes a
pamphlet to prove that in the sacrament of
Baptism the baby’s toes must be in the sprinkling,
or that a bandy-legged communicant may safely
go through without kneeling, or perchance he
“ Replies ” to Colenso in two volumes. Whatever
it may be, the influence of a rich family,
and the opportunities of politics, present him
with other “livings” on which curates can’t live;
and, finally, he is “ consecrated,” with exceeding
pow-wow and josshousism, a Bishop. A few years’
confirmation of children, a few dismal pastorals
and ponderous sermons, and it is time to join the
gouty third, and settle down to the chief end of
life—the perusal of the bank-book, and an occa-
sional glance at the Bible. And this in a world
said to be drifting to perdition, and undoubtedly
needing hard and heartful toil to reduce the
savagery and misery around. And good people
wonder to hear their holiness’s dignities and huge
fortunes spoken of venomously by the unculti-
vated and struggling poor! Come to think of it,
it is astonishing.
♦
Bulldog 1 Barristers.
In a recent number of the Melbourne Argus
appeared a “ leader ” dealing with a little practice
in our law courts, which, although very common,
wants to be kicked out by some man to whom
shoe-leather is not a consideration. The article is
founded on a letter represented to have been sent
to that paper by one Aiouillon de Guepe, three
columns long, and written wholly in the French
language. Aiouillon is said to speak strongly on
the latitude indulged in by examining and cross-
examining barristers in our courts. He thinks
they set themselves to insult and intimidate wit-
nesses, and asserts that, if such things were done
in his sunny land, someone would punch a hole in
the legal gentleman’s head. Of course Aiouillon
is a myth, and his three columns of stricture a
convenient imaginary peg on which to hang a
bristling satire. The practice is not confined to
Victoria. Elsewhere, as well as there, notoriety
pays, and the bullier is reputed clever. Witnesses
have ascended the box under the pressure of a
high sense of duty, and without the slightest per-
sonal interest in the issue of the case. The oppos-
ing barrister is quite justified in taking legitimate
means to shake the evidence. But the practice is
not to rest with legitimate means. Like a ferret, he
creeps through every avenue of a witness’s charac-
ter, and if only he can find a knuckle of the ver-
tebrae of a dead rabbit, he is vastly proud, and
the yokels spitting about the galleries are mightily
gratified. To those at a distance from our law
courts the following may appear to be a burlesque,
but to those whom business has often taken within
the shrine, it is likely to pass as current history.
The matter is a dog-fight, and a witness, who ii a
lady, has to testify that she saw one of tho men in
the dock leading a tan-coloured bulldog in the
direction of where the fight took place.
Barrister : You are Mrs. —Mrs.—Mrs.
Witness : Mrs. Jones.
B.: Ha, yes ; Mrs. Jones. And how long are you
Mrs. Jones ?
W.: Ten years.
B.: Ha, yes. And before that you were Miss-
Miss—Miss
W.: Miss Brown.
B.: Ha, yes. And what age were you then ?
W.; 39.
B.: Ha, yes. Now, on your oath, was Mr. Jones
your first lover? Think of what you’re about.
Eh?
W.: Y-e—s.
B.: Come, come. You may have blinded other
people ; you’re not going to blind us. Did you
never know a Mr. Smith ?
W.: No.
B.: What! never knew a Mr. Smith ? We all
know Mr. Smiths. Very honourable men, all of
them, and a little partial to the sex. Eh ?
Policeman : Soilence in the Coort!
His Honor : If there’s any more laughiDg, I’ll
order these people to be removed. Proceed, Mr.
Barrister.
B.: Well, well, Mrs. Jones, we all have skeletons
in our cupboards, and, as there is a Mr. Jones in
the field now, we’ll not ask you to explain any
further on that point. But you swear you saw the
prisoner pass you in the evening. Now, where
were you at the time ?
W.: Standing at the garden gate.
B.: Ha, you are willing to speak the truth some-
times. We know how you like to spend your
evenings. You have heard the song of “ Over the
garden wall,” eh ? Just so. Now, why Were you
at the gate that evening ?
W.: I was expecting my husband.
B.: Indeed. Well, you swear that it wasn’t an
hour before your husband leaves his office, eh ?
You won’t ? No ? Oh, yes, it was somewhere
about the time. Attend to me, now. Remember
you are on your oath. Was there a Mr. Smith
about ?
W.: No, sir.
B.: What! No Mr. Smith! What is the world
coming to! Why, I can’t go out of the door but I
see a Mr. Smith. Tho town is full of them. The
Court is full of them; and here you tell us that
you, standing for an hour at the garden gate, “ in
the gloaming, in the gloaming,” never saw one.
Crown Prosecutor: I think, your Honor, this ex-
amination is irrelevant.
His Honor: I can’t say till I see what he is want-
ing to bring out.
And so it goes on, and when it is over, it is found
that Mr. Barrister had nothing to bring out, for
he had never heard anything of her past life.
But he has satisfied his own notion of being able,
and has made the yokels call him lively and a
terror for the other side. His hide is too thick to
feel any sympathy for the confusion and pain he
has caused. There is such a thing as carrying
order and decency too far. Order and decency
oblige the sufferers to abide by such protection as
the Court affords. But if the Court will persist in
remaining passive, as it habitually does, and will
only rule the examination irrelevant after the
thorns are all sown, our conception is that when
some husband or brother is brought up for cudgel-
ling the head of the wigged blackguard the pun-
ishment should not go beyond a nominal fine.
An Historical Parallel.
Ninety years have gone by since Bourbon ambi-
tion and rascality resulted in Antoinette’s having
to “bare her fair neck ” to the sharp caress Of
La mere Guillotine, and, up to to-day, the panegy-
rists, through whose servility the curse of heredi.
tary rulers has been imposed upon mankind, have
not ceased to sing the virtues of her and her com-
panions, the ferocity of the sans-culottes, and the
woes into which popular passion plunged France
and Europe. The sufferings of the canaille, whose
bodies were daily removed in cart-loads from the
ditches of that Versailles which LeGrandeMonarque
with the concurrence of Holy Church, was raising
to his concubines ; of the thousands forced under
the pressure of the lash to perish of hunger on the
Danube, in quarrels they did not understand, or
rot in the fortresses of him and his successors; of
the miserables found dying of starvation, their
mouths filled with grass and weeds, while courtly
and long-pedigreed aristocrats drove by in
luxurious carriages; of the proscription to which
the intellect of a great nation was subjected by
ignorant and dissolute nobles—all are forgotten by
those who keep their eyes fixed on the sharp retri-
bution that at last overtook a commonplace
woman and her commonplace husband. Precisely
the same causes that led up to the rigirne of Marat
and Robespierre in France, have for years been
steadily pointing towards a similar result in an-
other great European country. The state of
affairs in Russia, to-day, suggestively resemble g
that in France before the tatterdemalions of Paris
marched on the Bastille, and—
“ Murdered the insolent Governor
For daring to keep them a-waiting.”
The same ominous upheavings under cruel oppres-
sion—the same blind incapacity in the privileged
classes to read the signs of the times. A few
years ago, when a Nihilist bomb demonstrated
that Czar Alexander, despite his claims to be
God’s vicegerent, was constructed on the same
anatomical lines as the meanest of his serfs, the
“ respectability ” of Europe sent up a shrill scream
of abhorrence. Australian conservatism followed
suit, and figuratively shook its fist at the perpetra-
tors of such an unparalleled crime. The fact that
our own Charles was shunted off the track by
means not violently dissimilar, and that to his exe-
cution—mu rder, some still call it—and the dethrone-
ment of his son the best English historians trace
the political liberty of England, was forgotten.
The threats of Russian constitutionalists (for
whom even Lord Rosebeb y, much to the alarm of
colonial fogeyism, has a good word to say)
to remove the third Alexander, if their de-
mands for a small modicum of freedom are
not granted, are met with similar cries of
abhorrence by those who —free themselves—should
be the first to recognise the just aspirations of an
oppressed people. But from the fortress of St*
Petersburg, a story now comes to us, which, if
true, should close the mouths of those who coun-
sel “patience” when all that makes life worth
living is wantonly disregarded. It is a story that,
for cynical disregard of human suffering, can only
be equalled by those of the worst days of the
Bourbons. Delicate women are stripped naked,
ravished, fed on putrid food, housed in Kennels
unprovided with the commonest requisites for
decency. Covered with vermin and filth, their
chief occupation ii keeping the rats from eating
their dying infants. Men in the prime of life and
vigour, are reduced in a few weeks to skeletons,
cpked with dirt, starved, driven mad by suffering
and solitude, and then knouted when their mania-
cal savings disturb the silence of their living
tomb. Only suppose that the present Czar’s wife
were pulled out of bed by insurgents, treated with
greater indignities than Antoinette, compelled to
sit up o’ nights to keep the rats from her hungry
and ragged children: that her husband, begrimed
with dirt and seamed with thongs, was dragging
out existence in a foul cellar—why half the armies
in Europe would be under orders for the Rus-
sian frontier in a week, and the world would
ring with the cry of outraged humanity.
Responsibility is the natural complement of power
The ruler of the British Empire has no real respon-
sibility-in a political sense—because she has no
real power. Not so with Czar Alexander. He
claims absolute power—not as a legal fiction, but
as a solid fact. Should this atrocious story, then
be true, the responsibility rests on him alone. And
now, you Australian writers who hold that no
abominations justify reprisals, tell us what you
would do if yourselves or your wives or your
daughters were subjected to the treatment de-
scribed by the Paris correspondent of the Times !
It is a statement that has gone forth to the world,
and cannot be met by the “dignified” silence of
even a Casar. Would you still cling to “consti-
tutional ” means, in a country without a constitu-
tion, to meet barbarities that, in the language of
your Bibles, “ cry to Heaven for vengeance ” ? And
should the costly shrine that ignorance is raising
to superstition on the spot where Alexander 11.
was murdered, happen to be blown into the air
with dynamite just as his son and Dolgorouka
pass the lintel to pray for their sainted father and
paramour, would you still be disposed to weep for
the Imperial martyr, and eall for vengeance on his
assassins? If you would, then you do not believe
in Disraeli when he wrote—
“ Blessed be the hand that dare 3 to wield
The regicidal steel that shall redeem
A nation’s suffering with a tyrant’s blood;”
Nor are you of the breed that produced the blind
old Puritan who penned
“ There can be slain
No sacrifice to God more acceptable
Than an unjust and wicked king.”
♦
Bless You, My People!
It is cheering to read that the Queen (God bless
her!) has summoned Sir Charles Dilke to
Windsor to confer with him upon the condition of
the London poor, it only having now aoparcntly
dawned upon Her Majesty that the humbler of
her metropolitan subjects were not always getting
horse-radish with their roast beef and capers with
their boiled mutton. And it is also still more
cheeriDg (if possible) to learn that in the House of
Lords “ the Prince of Wales spoke in his usual
cheerful manner,” also, upon the same subject.
We hardly know what more the poor of London
can want now. If mere Royal courtesy, such, fpr
instance, as was extended say to the great little
R. 8., is “ eminently pleasing” to that gentleman,
who is not poor at all, surely Royal sympathy
ought to be “ pie” to the indigent and starving. It
will be remembered (now for your little lesson in
history) that when the Princess Lamballe was
told the people of Paris were crying for bread, she
said she couldn’t understand them making all that
fuss about bread when you could buy such nice
little brioches for three sous. Well, “ pie,” on the
whole, is nicer than milk rolls, and the London
poor have got it. This should close up the subject
for once and for ever. To re-open it, however, for
a moment (we journalists have our trifling privi-
leges!), we may remark that the first great
champion of the poor and destitute in our own
times was Mathew, who depicted—and backed up
his statements with heart-rending statistics—the
appalling condition of the lower classes of “New
BaDylon,” in his work “London Labour and the
London Poor.” When Dickens was alive, hardly
a week passed but he dragged into the light, that
terrible subject which it seems to be the mission
of so many to hide. With a masterly hand he
depicted their trials and their sufferings ; with a
bitter satire he lashed the bogus philanthropists
which spring up like toadstools in every com-
munity. In “ The Chimes ”heis at his best, when
Sir Joseph Bowley bids a posse of destitute «nd
starving labourers to attend and receive moral
instruction at the conclusion of his banquet, and
in the midst of the proceedings Will Fern forces
his way in and addresses the company. Will was
a labourer, who had been starved out of the coun-
try into London, and starved out of London into
the country again. Hear him Gentlefolks,
I’ve lived many a year in this place. You may see
the cottage from the sunkfence yo n der. I’ve seen
the ladies draw it in their books a hundred times.
It looks well in a picter, I’ve heerd say ; but
there ain’t weather in pioters, and may be ’tis
fitter for that than for a place to live in. Well ! I
lived there. How hard, how bitter hard I lived
there I won’t say. Any day in the year, and every
day, you can judge for yourselves
I dragged on somehow. Neither me nor any other
man knows how; but so heavy that I couldn’t put
a cheerful face upon it, or make believe I was any-
thing but what I was. . . . Now, gentlemen, see
how your laws are made to trap and hunt us when
we’re brought to this. I tries to live elsewhere.
And I’m a vagabond. To jail with him. I comes
back here, and goes a nutting in your woods To
jail with him. I cuts a stick To jail with him. I
eats a turnip. To jail with him. . . . Give us,
in mercy, better homes when we lie in our
cradles; give us better food when we’re working
for our lives.” The chief living champion of the
poor now is G. R. Sims, who first by sketches in
the Weekly Dispatch, later by his “ Dagonet
Ballads,” and now by his articles (illustrated bv
G. Barnard) in the Pictorial World, has ven-
tilated the subject in a startling manner. These
attempts to ameliorate the lot rf the poor have
been going on for years; and it is both satisfactory
and interesting to find that Her Ma jesty has sent
for Sir Charles Dilke to have a chat with him
upon the matter, and that the Prince of Wales
(long may he reign b “ spoke in his usual cheerful
manner about the noor, in the House of Lords.”


Mb. DeCourcy Browne (late Deputy-
Chairman of tho Mining Board of New South
Wales), Mining Expert, Adviser and Mining Titles
Agent; also, Free Selectors’ and General Land*
Agent, Minerva Chambers, 126 Pitt-street, Sydney,
Mining and Land Disputes and Difficulties advised
upon. Every class of Land and Mining Business
in the Public Department undertaken. Titles a
speciality.—An vt.
The Rates of Subscription to The Bulletin
arc—For on© year, 345.: half-vaar, 13s. 6d.;
quarter, 6s. Bd.—ln advance.
The Advertising Rates are ss. per inch;
special positions in the paper 7s. 6d. per
inch. Paragraph advertisements 10s. per inch.
Discounts are allowed on continuous advertise-
ments ordered for periods as follows :—On ad-
vertisements ordered for 13 consecutive inser-
tions, 10 per cent.: For 36 consecutive insertions,
15 per cent.: For 52 consecutive insertions, 25 per
cent. No allowance can be made on advertise-
ments ordered for alternate or intermittent in-
sertion. Cheques, drafts, and P.O. Orders should
be made payable to W. H. Traill ; for amounts
under £l, postage stamps ef any Australian
Colony may be sent, if more convenient.
JJ E R SPEECH RESTORED.
Clair View, Inverell, December 10, 1883.
Messrs. Publishers Bulletin.
Dear Sirs.—l beg to acquaint you of a marvellous
cure following on the use of St. Jacobs Oil, which
has taken place in my own family. lam a poor
man with eight children, and for years have been
a great sufferer from sciatica. My wife was ad-
vised to try St. Jacobs Oil. She procured a bottle,
and I have been using it of late with good results;
but it is of my eldest daughter, 13 years of age,
that I wish to tell you. she retired one night
about four months ago in her usual good health,
but the next morning she could not speak. My
wife took her to Inverell to see Dr. , who said
her throat was ulcerated low down, aud he pre-
scribed cod liver oil and other medicines; and also
advised her to inhale the fumes of Stockholm tar,
saying she might never recover her speech again.
At the expiration of a fortnight, the medicine
having been finished, another visit to the Dr. was
made, who again prescribed for her, but told my
wife he had no hope of her ever being able to
speak again. We began to despair, but the day I
used the oil—about three months after she was
taken ill—l persuaded my wife, after we had
retired, to use the oil. She got up and
gave the girl two drops in water, and rubbed
it on her throat. Next morning we were
delighted to find that she could talk as well as ever,
and has been able to do so ever since.
1 remain, Gentlemen, gratefully yours,
JAS. R. HATCHER.
FACT AND FANCY FOCUSED.
How paltry and insignificant do our own
jittle snake yarns appear after reading the report
in the Official Gazette of India, informing us
that 19,519 human beings were hurriedly removed
from that country by snake-bite during 1882. In
addition to tbat, some 2800 of our ftllow-men (black
mostly) were devoured by tigers, leopards, wolves,
alligators, &c. There’s nothing like “big game’
for keeping down the surplus population of a
country From Herberton we hear of a “ peculiar
swamp animal ” there who edits a paper devoted
to the interest of “tin.” It is whispered that some
of the smart people that way who extracted 200
votes from 17 electors may get Government en-
gagements at nominal wages. Bad to be on the
losing side even in Queensland politics. Oh,
and it is there the “ champion sculler of England ”
lives under an alias. He is also under a cloud.
The champion liar is also there, together with the
“boss ” loafer who is a “ squire ” by Act of Parli-
ment. The wives of the lucky diggers are gradu-
ally leaving the wash-tub and the mangle and
going in for “eultcha.” Pianos are getting as
common as perriwinkles, and flash horses as
C.M G’s. The quondam cook to a road-party has
the best tin lode. Some new J.l’.'s have been made,
who wear “ masher ” hats and keep the lower order
who have not “struck tin ” at a disdainful distance.
John Moffatt, the maker of Herberton, just re.
turned from “ Yurrup.” Said to have a quarter
of a million at his back At Bourke a snake got
into a cradle and bit a child. Child progressing—
snake decomposing Squeamishness is now
carried to such an extent in Melbourne tbat pro-
perly clothed bathers are prevented from swimming
i n the Yarra. Dreadfully moral place
tbat! One thing you never find in
Chinese literature—a proverb or an
ordinance against story-teliing. The
result is that, when lying is on the
carpet, the most accomplished Euro-
pean has to stand aside. Of course,
there are exceptions. We know a case,
for instance, where —but enough
Burrowa can show a grape vine 11
years old, 100 feet long, and over 500
bunches of grapes clinging to it....
Here we are again. Charges of in-
delicacy have been preferred agamst
the pastor of a Free Presbyterian
Church in the Murtoa district, by
two married women, members of
the church. Church committee now
taking evidence, which, rumour says,
is “extremely edifying.”.. .18,000 acres
of grass have been destroyed by bush
fires on the Kerabury—Wagga district
—run alone Moses complains of the
brusque reception he received from
a distinguished Government official
into whose snug Bridge-street sanc-
tum he had forced his way, after many
unsuccessful trials. But Moses should
know that in N.S. AVales, as in other
places, the post of a public servant
carries with it the right of bullying
the long-suffering public that pays
him his screw... .Queenslander resides
at Manly, and says that in all his
wanderings about the colonies he
has come across no place where the
police supervision is so effective. This
he attributes to the officer in charge
there, and considers that the “ larri-
kin” nuisance could be kept down
effectually in other places if the
police Avere equally vigilant —Major
Barker (Salvation Army) says that
when he started business in Mel-
bourne, a year ago, he “ had no
friend but£Jesus.” He doesn't say
if the friendship continues On
motion of Mr. John Davies, C.M.G.,
the children of the Bandwick Asylum
thanked the Mayoress for distri-
buting books. There is no truth in
the report that Mrs. Hardie asked
Mr. Davies to write the date of pre-
sentation (21st January) in the fly-
leaves The cricket match, Austra-
lian Eleven v. eighteen of Newcastle,
excited very little interest outside
the city of black diamonds, and ended
on Saturday last in a draw in favour
of the EleveD.
A little excitement has been caused in
Macquarie-street, and also at Glebe Point, owing
to the disappearance of a youth from the former
locality, and of a maid from the latter. It appears
the friends of neither would consent to their tie-
ing the knot, and consequently they lied.
So it seems that the reason why the monu-
ment over the grave of the late Hon. Mr. Fitz-
patrick was left unfinished was that there was not
“perfect unanimity as to the wording of the
inscription.” If some of our living politicians
had happened to die instead of Mr. Fitzpatrick,
there would be no lack of unanimity as to what
should be graven on tneir monuments. It would
be " Here lies.” Nothing more. Think this out.
It is remarked by nearly every visitor to
Sydney that there is probably no other city in the
world which is carrying out such building opera-
tions as are here in fu'i swiug. The big mercan-
tile cities of the old world havv loDg since reached
their full dimensions; aud with regard to colonial
cities the natural growth, as eviaenced by archi-
tectural improvements, is at the present period
decidedly slow. In Sydney, however, for the last
ten years there has hardly been 100 yards clear of
any thoroughfare that has not been occupied with
the building contractor’s material, scaffolding,
&c. Here is a short statement of work under-
taken by one contractor during the last two
years. First comes Tattersali's four-3torey colos-
sal stables; then Messrs. Young and Lark’s exten-
sive warehouses, near City Bank; Prince, Ogg, and
Co.’s warehouses, George and Pitt streets; Messrs.
Farmer and Co.’s great warehouses, Market aud
Pitt streets; the A.S.N. Co.’s stores and ware-
houses, Circular Quay (1)4 acres of floor space),
and tfie Government stores and sheds at EveleigU
—representing in cash just a trifle over £190,01)0.
These edifices will compare with any build-
mgs of the kind in any other city in the
world. The whole work was executed by Mr. AY.
H. Jennings, who has also done himself infinite
credit by the systematic style in which he has
executed his work—not a single hitch having
occurred in any of the contracts with regard to
labour or material. To the firms who have under-
taken these great improvements every credit and
success are likewise due for their enterprise and
attachment to the city where they amassed their
wealth.
We have seen several paragraphs in the
papers of late, concerning lady shooters in the
country. Some of them are said to bo dead shots.
They can shoot anything that flics. Ladies in
town are quite as accomplished, though in a some-
what different way. They can hit their husbands
with a tiat-iron five times out of six. And they
never puton airs about it cither.
Some men, while digging a well at Lismore,
found a gold watch-chain at a depth of over ten
feet from the surface. Somebody had evidently
salted ihat spot with the intention of floating it as
a jewellery-mine. Or, perhaps, what they found
was portion of a chain worn by a prehistoric
Mayor. But, on reflection, prehistoric Mayors did
not wear chains—except prior to their term of
office, when they occasionally wore them on their
legs.
The pantomimes are succeeding better in
Melbourne than was anticipated on Boxing night.
Mrs. G. W. B. Lewis, after risking an absence Of
three years from the stage, has leaped into her old
popularity in the “ Forty Thieves.” The piece is
nearly a quarter of a century old, as far as Mel-
bourne spectators are concerned, but still a lull
house comes out to see it. The scenic effects are
very fine, the ladies are nearly all pretty, and the
Home of the Angels, where the dear things
languidly stretch, is just what the disturbed spirit
likes to be introduced to.
At the Opera House, “ The Sunny South,”
with its bushrangers and bobbies, its staunch
digger-men and maidens all forlorn, has given
place to “ Back from the Grave.” There are but a
few nights left for this thrilling “spiritualistic
drama,” with its vows, abductions, murders,
trances, and return from that country from whose
"Mr. Daniel O’Connor, M.P, introduced the Deputation asking for the closing of butchers’ shops on the
Sunday.”—Daily paper.
THE BLOW FLY (loq):-You’re right Dan. If you close the shops on Sunday—we'll both have a day to our-
selves.” (Hum.)
bourne, &c., as the Majeronis open on Saturday
night with “Jealousy.” George goes to New-
castle, to show the people there how, even on the
stage, vice always sneaks meanly away when
virtue turns the corner. Bon voyage.
“Aladdin” holds the Royal, aud Mis*
Maggie Moore has been bribed by a big considera-
tion to show her pleasant happy face, and do
some, capital singing and dancing. Mr. Finn
gave his pen to the enlivening of this venerable
old play, and his local hits were often lucky. Bu t
at the Princess’ a drama was also started, and is
running under tangible encouragement. It is a
five-act production called “ Impulse.” It is a
translation from the'French, and not as usual, the
dialogue sparkles and the workmanship is fiuished.
There is an elopement in it, and a Frenchman can
always screw humour out of that idea. Mr.
Titheradge, who won honours in the “ Silver
King,” climbs higher still as Captain Crichton in
this play. In the other houses the bills of fare are
attractive. Professor Anderson, something to the
Great Wizard, is startling the people in the Victoria
Hall. Aud Miss Melville is on her way to Sand-
hurst to make the people of that mining centre
happy at heart.
The sad plight of certain Victorian civil
servants calls for heartfelt sympathy. A splendid
proficiency in the art of how not to do it” has
enabled the gentlemen whose arduous duties are
devoted to the service of the Titles Office to get
into arrears with their work. And now—get your
handkerchiefs ready—the examiners have been
instructed to be on duty from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. to
make up the ground so cleverly lost. The tear
stands gently in our eye as we think of these civil
gentlemen—the very bone and sinew of the colony
—slaving away for eight long weary hours; and
we do trust they have a good interval for luncheon.
Our only consolation is that these Herculean
efforts will not have to be kept on long, as the
Attorney-General anticipates that the Titles Office
will be brought into a thoroughly satisfactory
working state shortly.—
THE EIGHT-HOUR MOVEMENT.
The clerks in the Titles are burdened with care
(We fear that they eannot survive),
Since they have to keep yawning and combing their
hair
From nine in the morning till five.
Such dull dreary drudgery, day after day,
Is plainly too much for their powers;
For, with hands in their pockets, they drearily say
“By Jingo, what awful long hours!”
Field-Marshal the Prince of Wales, in his
full uniform, as he appeared leading the British
army to victory on Clapham Common, is the
subject of a splendid oil painting to be sold, with
other works of art, by Bradley, Newton, and
Lamb, on Tuesday and Wednesday, the 29th and
30th*
Tue Diamond Dyes are the best dyes made.
Have you tried them? If not, then you should do
so. They are the best, and, at the same time, the
cheapest dye 3 in this market. Why ? Because
they are true to colour every time, andean always
be depended on to produce the desired effect. One
package will dye from three to four times more
than any other dyes sold. All dealers sell them, or
will get them for you. Insist on having them, and
take no others. All sold at one price; (Id. only.
Wholesale by Elliott Bros., Sydney and Brisbane.*
Mr. Alberto E. Geismardo, a professional
glove fitter from the Bon Marche, Paris, has ar-
rived in Sydney under engagement to Mr. Cater,
193 and 195 Pitt-street. We believe that Mr. Geis-
mardo is the first of his profession to find his way
to Australia. With the possible exception of tight
boots there are, probably, no articles that have
caused so much domestic infelicity as bad or ill-
fitting gloves. It is Mr. Geismardo's province to
remove this difficulty, and, by doing so, to restore
that equanimity so apt to be lost when your gloves
are puckered at the back or shaky about the
seams.*
The editor of a New Caledonian paper
states that he is going to write strong articles
This reminds us. The strongest articles we have
ever seen were in the Evening News. They were
wrapped round Wollongong cheese.
A number of members of the Ministry
went on board the Italian ship Caracciolo last
week, to say good-bye to Captain de Amezaga.
Captain de Amezaga keeps a very choice brand of
champagne on board. But this merely by the way.
The Mudgee correspondent of the Nooze
says that the population of Mudgee is being added
to by the arrival of strangers. He is at a loss to
account for this. We are not. They go there
because they are strangers. No one who knew
the place would ever go there —except, perhaps, in
a prison-van.
A correspondent of the Evening News
writes all the way from Casino to inform that
brilliant journal that “another year has rolled
round.” This person is evidently under the im-
pression that the late deceased year was all its time
in ajstate or intoxication. But, perhaps, he has his
reasons for thinking so.
Parnellites s»em determined to muster
strongly in the House of Commons, but they must
be stumped for candidates when they have to send
to N. S. Wales for one, as they did by the last
mail. One of the agreements made while the
patriots were in gaol was to the effect that other
things being equal a “ suspect” was to have the
first offer of a constituency before all other
eligible persons.
The secretary to our Court at the late
Fisheries Exhibition, hold in London, is a man
with a quaint little humour of his own. He makes
several suggestions to Sir Saul Samuel as to what
should be done with the exhibits. This is one of
the suggestions:-“That the tinned fish for food
be distributed amongst those of the commissioners
and members of the Press who may be desirous of
testing the<r excellence.” Who may be desirous I
This is cutting sarcasm. Still, the proposal is a
good-natured one, and shows that Mr. ttamsay-
that is his name—has a heart to feel for the strug-
gling literary man. His memory should be kept
green in—the Noos office, anyhow.
The Sydney Gymnasium was
pretty well filled on Monday evening - ,
on the occasion of a benefit tendered
to “Professor” D’Harcourt, who has
been laid up for some ■weeks with a
broken ankle. The “Professor,” who
looked interesting - with a conspicuous
bandage round the damaged limb, did
B ome very pretty work with the light
clubs, to waltz time by the band; and,
assisted by Messrs. Turnbull, Fry,
Stevenson, Dawes, and others, some
very good work was gone through on
the rings, parallel and horizontal bars,
the light weights Fry and Dawes show-
ing up to advantage in these exercises.
Some heavy weight lifting was shown
by the men of muscle, Mr. Turnbull
putting a bell, weighing something
over 701 b., from the lloor to arm's
length above his head no less than 22
times. “Professor” Miller then
showed off his massive physique to
advantage in some heavy club swing-
ing ; two amateurs showed a set-to
with the mittens, a shade above the
general average; D’Harcourt and
Mr. Belisario went through a lady-
like performance with the gloves ;
and Messrs. Turnbull and “ Young ’
Miller, in a friendly way, showed a
few wrestling holds, or “holts,” as
an Italian gentleman alongside of us
would insist on calling them. The
beneficiarc then thanked the company
for their attendance.
Things are slightly unsettled in
the house of John M'Kenna, of Green-
vale, Wilcannia. It appears that, in
October last, he took to himself a
wife, and shortly afterwards he took
to the innocent but rather tiring
amusement of kicking his spouse
round the yard and anointing her
back with stirrup oil. On New Year's
night, John came home a trifle corned,
and found one Steve Newberry sitting
with Mrs. Mac. Not approving of
this, John poked his finger in his wife’s
eye and knocked her down The gal-
lant Don Juan Newberry, not caring
to interfere in that part of Mr.M'Ken-
na’s marital duties, at once cleared,
and hid himself up a hollow log. Mr.
M’Kenna then threw a kettle full el'
scalding water over his wife’s head
and face. Hearing her screams, the
bold Newberry rushed up, and was
about to quote the Herald, and say
such conduct was most unseemly,
when M'Kenna produced a butcher’s
knife and playfully asked Stephen
where he’d like to have it. Not being
prepared to answer just then, the gay
lover once more skeddadled to think
the matter over, and has not since
been heard of. One James Burrow,
however, made himself horrily offi-
cious, and threw M'Kenna over his
own fence. And, next May, our Wil-
cannia Othello will call round and
unfold his plain, unvarnished tale
before the most potent, grave, and
reverend seignor who presides at the
Quarter Sessions.
Half the public men in Melbourne are
packing up for a visit to “Yurrup.” Johnny
M'lntyre, Paterson, and a lot more are either gone
or going. Of course, the usual before they
start, and equally of course the rivers of hogs’
wash that wells from them at the banquets like
water from the rock when struck by the rod of
Moses. The last public man to give his views on
things in general, before taking a trip home, was
Mr. Joseph Thompson. He was banqueted at the
Athenauim, and made some remarks iust as sensi-
ble as if he’d been in the House all his life instead
of hawking fish and book-making.


The Referee.
SPORTING FIXTURES.
[ W ehaK 'be glad to borne this index potted hi by
emen&aries of raeino clubs and managers of
sporting events in general.]
RACING,
‘Coormbarabran January 24, 25.
Moruya January 24, 25.
Queanbeyan Annual January 35, 28.
Grenfell January 26.
Sydney Turf Club January 26.
New England Races Janury 35, 26.
Sydney T.C January 36.
Junee January 26.
Goulbum T.C February 1, 2.
•Sraidwood Races February 6. 8.
•Burro w a February *, 8.
•Newcastle February 9.
Oootamundra February 13,14.
Tasmanian R.C. Summer February 13,14,15.
Cooma Races. February 20, 21.
Oundagai J.C February 28, 29.
Orange J.C.. March 5, 6.
Turniit March 5, 6.
V.R.C. Autumn March 1,6, 8.
Wanganui (N.Z.) J.C. Autumn March 6, 7.
Wollongong March 17.
fjundaroo.. March 17
Albury March. 17 18.
•Condobalin... . .March 26. 27.
Rawkesbury R.C. Autumn April ». 5.
Balonne <Q.) Races April 8, 9.
A.J.U. Autumn April 12,14,16,19.
Hay. . May 15, I*.
Muifoe R.C.... June 4, 5.
AQUATICS
VnHonai Regatta January 26.
Clifford v. Pearce February 3.
S.A.C. Dingy Club Races .. .January 5 and Feb. 9.
Intercolonial Eight-oar Race, Victoria y.
N.S.W..Y April 5.
ATHLETICS.
Mudgee Sports •• January 26
Raynor y. Clues, Six Days Walk, at Mel-
bourne January 28.
Franks v. Murphy February 9.11.16.
Bourte) Sheffield Handicap May 25.
CRICKET.
Australian Eleven v. N.S.W. 15.... January 25, 26, 31.
SPORTINO AND ATHLETIC MEMS.
Kayner and Clues start at Melbourne, on
28th instant in a six-days’ walk for an alleged £lOO.
Kayner concedes 50 miles
Mr. Lowndes, the Oxonian sculler, has
won 140 races out of 180 starts, which looks very
much like a best on record.
Should all pro well, the winner of the Anui-
xmrsary Handicap should turn up in either Le
Grand, Old Gold, or Empress.
T. M. Malone Is out with a sporting chal-
lenge to any three m<*n in Victoria to run three
events—loo, £OO, and 303 yards, the distances to be
run off within an hour.
Beale’s protest against Fittes, in connec-
tion with the recent challenge sculls, on the
ground that Fittes received aid in steering his
course, was withdrawn.
The exaot scores made in the recent pedes-
trian exhibition in San Francisco (Cal.), were:—
Hart 500% miles, O’Leary 475%; total, 976. M‘ln-
tyre 481%, Harriman 481%; total, 962%.
John Waffen won a dollar bet by drinking
fifteen “slugs” of whisky in as many minutes at
Cleveland, 0., Nov. 15. hut ho expired in agony
shortly afterwards. Ye Gods! What a death!
The American papers credit F. Harmon,
in a race with Kittleman, with ooverlng 100 yards
in 9% seconds. We are sorry we cannot Harmon-
ise with the Yankee scribes. The stake was £6OO
h side.
In Adelaide, Messrs. Blackler and Ferry
are at length trying to get others to join them in
the old course lease, and form a proper racing
club. Their Birthday meeting will probably last
four days.
Armidale races promise to hum this year.
The Ladies’ Bracelet, a diamond and gold trifle,
valued at £*), is now on view at Jeweller Stuart’s,
as is also the splendid silver cup donated by Mr.
Alex. Frater.
The Thames (England) Hare and Hounds
handicapped a mile and three quarters race by
weight. The winner turned up in E. M Wilson,
who carried 171 b. and the top weight. H. Hen-
ning, 251 b., ran seventh.
Boylo, the cricketer, bet M’Donnell a fiver
that he, Mao., could not strike a ball from the en-
trance of the Newcastle cricket ground, clean
over the opposite fence. Boyle is now a sadder,
but a wiser, man by £5.
A one-mile walking match has been ar-
ranged between Young Ormes, of Parramatta, and
the Victorian youngster, Bernard Murphy, £3o a
side. No date has been fixed for the race, which will
probably come off in Sydney.
An Irish paper says that Mr. H. E. Linde
is prepared to run his cross-country horse, Too
Good, over the Grand National course, at weight
for age, with anything in the world, for any sum
between £lOOO and £lO,OOO a side.
Mr. Horatio Ross, the veteran deer-stalker,
on his eighty-third birthday, shot his stag after a
stalk which would have been difficult and fatiguing
to many men half his age. He has performed a
similar feat on his last five preceding birthdays.
Some of the English Judges hare an-
nounced their intention of passing severe sentence
on persons convicted of docking horses’ tails. One
Judge is going in a dooker in this direction, and
says he will regard any such action as a criminal
offence.
At the Moonie Valley (Vio.) rai’es on Satur-
day last, Ironmaster won the Maiden Plate, St.
John the Brunsrick Handicap, Andover finished
alone for the Steeplechase, I ittle King won the
Selling ttace. and Hannibal appropriated the
Coburg Handicap.
Major T. K. Holmes, a retired army
officer, aged seventy-seven vears. recently rede
fifty-three miles in 5 hours and 16 seconds on a tri-
cycle. a< the Crystal Palace traek, London, Eng.
Considering the ago of the rider, and the fact that
a cold rain foil part of tho time, the performance
was remarkable.
The six days’ walking match >vt Auckland
for £lOO a side—Edwards r. Arthur and James
Hendry and Huckstep—terminated in a win for
Edwards. Huckstep retired with s,ore feet, with a
record of 101 miles 12 lans Edwa rds’ score at the
close of the match was 471 mile-si 19 laps, and the
combined score 462 miles 11 Japs.
For the Orange Anniversary Handicap,
150 yards, which closed with 51 entries, T. M.
Malone has been awarded two yards, A. J. Farrell
four yards, and Combobardb >e Billy four yards.
Tho promoters of some of tb ,ese handicaps ought
to try the novelty of handle *pping by weight, as
lately carried out in anglan' i with success.
Iu New Zealand, •it the Caledonian
Society’s sports, Donald Di jmie won the 561 b throw
over the horizontal bar x nth a score of lift. 6in.,
the 561 b throw with 24ft w 3j n<t the 321 b hammer
throw with 86ft. 6in.; an' j was beaten in tho High-
land reel competitions . William Matheson has
been matched against J jjnnle at hammer throwing
for £lOO a side. As Di anie threw tho hammer, at
the rocont athletic spr >r t«, 86ft. (iin. to Matheson’s
71ft. 10in., this looks x r y hk© a job jot,”
William Elllot> the eJt-CbAmpion sculler of
England, has lopt tro time, since his return home
from Ameriqa, In snowing he means biz. He has
chalrengea walker, of Stockton, for a match or
series of matches on the Tyne or Tees, for £lOO
a side, aha has thrown down the cartel to George
Bubeat, to scull over the Thames Championship
CoUfSe for £2OO aside.
George H. Hosmer, the well-known Yankee
sculler, who has done the fastest sculling on re-
cord-throe rnMes with a turn, 2Cmin. Oseo.-ls no
mean pedestrian. On December ii, ho defeated W.
Gilmore in a ten-mile walking match ; time, lh.
19min. 51sgc. A ten-mile match was then made
with John Meagher, the champion walker, for £6O
a side, Hosmer to receive 300 yards' start.
It is rumoured ou the Clyde that Mr.
James Gordon Bennett h 8 given an order to Mr.
G. L Watson for an 80-ton cutter to “Whip crea-
tion ; so that, if a British boat goes over to
American waters, she may meet one of her own
kind In competition for the America Cup. Mr.
<) Connor, an English yachtsman, is having a 60-
tonner built with a view ©f sighting Sandy Hook.
Rome time before the reeentface between
M'Ternon and Burletto, which cam® otf at Quean-
beyan, Burlette was possessed of a very strong
jimp, which lasted overt to his preliminary canter,
but directly the rftee Commenced the limp dis-
appeared and he covered the 150 yards soruo two
yards in advance of M’Ternan. The local paper,
fn ail seriousness, gives the time as 13 seconds.
Thunder!
Madame Green, announced as “ the co-
loured lady champion long distance walker of
South America,” has arrived in Liverpool (Eng.),
and challenges Miss Kate Brown to walk for six
days, six or ten hours daily. Here's a chance for
Miss Phillips to take a trip home and make a
sweepstake on it. “ Madame ” Englo, who recently
walked 1000 miles ii 1000 hours, offers to walk
j Madame” Greeu a six days’ match for all the
money she can raise.
The Yankees have still another best on
record to their oredit:-The quickest divorce time
on record was made in Chicago, 111, Nov. 7. Mrs.
Lulu Scannell tiled a petition for divorce from
Burt H. Scannell at 9.45 a.m. At the samo time th“
defendant waived all service, summons, notice
and other formula. At 10 o’clock the case was
before Judge Smith. At 10.25 the decree was
granted. The entire transaction occupied forty
minutes. Smart work, this.
Last Saturday week an amusiug cricket
match was played at Albury, between the local
Methusalems and the “old buffers” of Beech-
worth; the Albury ante hluvians winning by 15
runs. There was no gammon about the style
Beechworth Gammon played, for he scored 30
runs, and bowled 9 wickets. On the Albury side,
old man Frew made 31 runs and nid Buffer Billson
lowered the timbets of nine of the Beechworth
veterans. There were 16 players on each side, and
of course, the majority of them fought at
Waterloo.
Clarence Whistler, whose collar-bone was
stated to have been fractured in his recent wrest-
ling contest with William Mwldoon, was tendered
a benefit at Recreation Park, San Francisco, Cal.,
Nov. 4. About twelve hundred persons were’pre-
sent, and the entertainment, consisting of boxing
and wrestling, afforded s itisfaetion. Whistler was
present, his arm in a sli»g, and Muldoon offered to
wrestle anyone and give £2O to whoever could
throw him—an offer that no one accepted. By the
way, the Miller-Muldoon affair seems to have died
a natural death.
A varied and lengthy programme of sports
was recently gone through at the Blind College,
Worcester, Eng. The running of the blind stu-
dents was directed by the ringing of bells, and
aided by stationing boys at eaih post of the roped
centre. Two of the blind students took their
“high leap” standing; a third, the winner, care-
fully measured his distance backward from the
bar, then sprang forward and cleared it. The
blind boys in a 100 yards’ handicap ran in a
“straight” manner, which is more than some of
the peds. with good eyesight do.
The Waitangi, Sirocco, Guinevere, Daphne,
Pleiades, and Sao started on Saturday last for the
handicap race for prizes given by Mr. W. O. Gil-
christ. Commodore Knox, and the club, in connec-
tion with the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron. The
handicaps were:—Waitangi scratch, Sirocco
scratch, Guinevere 9 minutes. Daphne 12 minutes,
Pleiades 12 minutes, Sao 13 minutes, and the
yachts finished as follows: Waitanga. 3h. smin.
10sec.; Sirocco, 3h. lUmin. 25see.; Guinevere, 3h.
18min. lOsec.; and the Sao, 3h. 26min. 45sec, So the
Waitangi appropriated first prize, the Sirocco
second and the Sao third.
The English Rugby football season is
proving very rough. At the Oxford University
football matches on Saturday, several serious
accidents occurr ed. Mr. Gore received serious in-
juries, but is progressing favourably. Fowler, of
Magdalen, sustained a fracture of one of his legs.
At Cambridge, in the Rugby match between Uni-
versity and Kensington, Colbourn Hope broke his
ieg, and another Cantab was very much hurt.
One of the Konsington men had his nose smashed,
and another severely sprained his ankle. Most of
the players received slight injuries, and minor
casualties occurred in other games.
Hanlan and Stevenson gave an exhibition
row at Vallejo, Cal., on Thanksgiving Dav, for
which they are stated to have received £l2O aod
£2O respectively. With respect to Teemer's chal-
lenge to the champion, it is stated to have been
the outcome of a discussion between the former
and a Chicago sporting man, during which the
latter offered to wager £lO that the M'Keesporter
would not issue a challenge to the champion.
Hanlan is getting quite a versatile sport. He was
to run bruiser Sullivan 100 yards in San Francisr-o;
and, in conjunction with MnldooD, the wrestler, he
appeared at the California Theatre on the night of
December 10, in statuary posing.
Master Walter Jeyes, of Northampton,
Eng., born August 13, 1872, on November 10 under-
took, for a wager of £lO, to run nine miles in an
hour at the Viotoria Running Grounds. Kitteriog,
Eng. He ran his first mile in 6»iin., and he con-
tinued to knock off mile after mile at avace which
surprised all present. At the half hour it was
found he had covered nearly t «o laps more than
his required distance, but at this part of the race
the wind, which was blowing freely at the start,
became almost boisterous, and, although the lad
persevered pluckily, he failed by 350 yards. Tho
track, which was but 183 yards in circumference,
was against the performance of the task.
Members of the M.R.C. mustered strongly
at the Oxford on Thursday night; Mr. Vice-Presi-
dent Carl Sahl in the chair. A most satisfactory
report was presented, and the following officers
were elected for this year:—President, Hon. J. B.
Watt, M.L.C.; vice-presidents, Messrs R. Fowler,
J. B. Holdsworth, C. L. Sabi, C. K. Moore, Hon. W.
H. Alderson, M.L.C.; captain, Henry Earle Wilkin-
son; hon. treasurer, Robert A. Keddie; hon.secre-
tary, John Blackman; match and selection com-
mittee, Messrs. Wilkinson, W. G. Brett, and Fitz-
gerald; committee, Messrs. R. N. Bull, F. J. Bull,
W. G. Brett, D. J. Fletcher, S. H. Martin, C. H.
Williams, W. A. Blackstone, and G. Seale.
Says London Spotting Life “ A gentle-
man will post 300 guineas on behalf of Charles
Keeble (who is now waiting at the Metropolitan
Grounds, Old Kent Road, 1026 miles in 456 hours)
that he will walk any man in the world for six
weeks night and day ; or will wager that he can
complete a distance of 2500 in 1000 hours, and will
also wager that he will lose no flesh during the
said feat. The conditions of the race—each man
have a separate track ; to be walked in England
or America, inside a building or in the open air ;
all gate money to be paid over to the winner.
Also, whoever is the winner, the said gentleman
will give a gold cup, value 100 guineas.
The Canterbury Park Race Club had fine
weather, and an attendance of some 3500, for their
inaugural meeting on Saturday last, and every-
thing passed off happy ns the proverbial marriage
bell. Boniface appropriated the opening Handi-
cap by three lengths from Bellman, Uhlan third.
The Midsummer Stakes fell a rather easy victory
to Regulator, Mare second, Combadello third.
V'olestar defeated Tait by throe lengths for the
Park Handicap. Fritz won the Selling Kflce, and
was afterwards knocked down for £S3. And the
day's sport concluded with the Visitor!' Handicap,
which resulted in a win for Tait, after a great
struggle up the Straight, Roduette, a snort head
away, second, and Hypatia third.
Recently a pi'iXe light took place at S«n
Francisco, between Harry Manyard. chatrtpion
light-Weight boXer, of California, anu a pugdist
named Scott. Manyard weighed lilst., and s-cott
12st. l2lh. The latter was bacued to knock Man-
yard out of time in foUr rounds* bUt the Champion
proved an easy Victor. Manyard is an old N.Z.
colonist. His real name is wllliatrt Wincllcourt.
In the early days of the Thames goldtleld he earned
a living by peddling vegetables, and was known
among the diggers by theSortbrfiffifcf of “Cabbage
Bill,” ; now he isa tip-top swell-un artist in noses
—and <jualifted to keep company with Lord Heres-
ford, tne Prince of Wales, Spurgeon, aEd other
pious bruizers.
In reply to “ Professor” Miller’s challenge,
Sullivan says he has no intention of journeying to
the Antipodes on the terms proposed by Miller,
but he win give Miller £3OO to meet him in a glove-
contest in San Francisco or New York City ; the
winner to have the entire ree“ipls of the house,
and if Miller stays four rounds, Marquis of
Queensb.* rry rules, he is to be declared the winnor
of the contest. Tais should sua Miller, and if the
“ Professor ” does not close with the offer at once,
he ought to cry iteccavi, and give over fighting the
Yankee in the newspapers. Sullivan and Ryan
have been matched to spar, in San Francisco, four
rounds, each of three minutes duration, with one-
miuute rest, and a man down to get upon his feet
again, unassisted, in ten seconds, between Jauuary
23 and February 23.
Little Martin, the innocent child who won
the Czarowitch Stakes at Newmarket, and who was
described by the gushers us being better pleased
with the six-bladeu knife his generous uncle gave
him than ho was with the £lOOO cheque, is gradu-
ally waking up to a due sen-e of his own import-
ance. Ho now doclines to ride for any great race
unless he receives £6O for a losing mount, and
£lOOO if he wins. The consequence is that many
other feather-weights are following his pernicious
example, and owners and trainers ure petitioning
the Knglish Jockey Club to raise the standard
weights in handicaps, so that their horses may be
ridden by competent, fair-dealing men, instead of
cheeky brats, who are wholly incapable of keeping
a horse straight, or of getting anything like a good
result out of him.
In London, Goode and Roberts fought
with gloves before a “select party,” in a club
room up Hackney way. Goode is a youngster
only rising twenty, stood a couple of inches over,
and scaled some 71b. more, than Roberts. The
men fought in a 12-foot ring, and it was thought
Roberts’ experience would more than make up
for his phy. ical deiiciencies. Such did not prove
the case, however, as Goode took a decided lead in
the fifth rouad, which he held till the eighth, when
the gas was extinguished at the meter. Goode's
papa, who seconded his son, would not give over
the contest, but obtained alighted candle, from
which dull light the fight was continued for
another round, when pioceedings were brought
to a termination by the candle being knocked out
of Goode, senior’s, hand. The men boxed 33min.
22sec.
In commenting on “Professor” Miller’s
challenge to John L. Sullivan, the N. Y. Clipper
states thatthe matchoughttojustsuitihe Yankee
bruiser, as it is understood he contemplates a visit
to Australia. And, while on the bruising racket,
we may state that Mace has been on the “bluff”
in England. In the Sporting Life, Alf. Green-
field (who affixes “Champion” to his signature)
iiies into print, stating that he had journeyed to
Manchester to make a match with Mace's
Jack Davis, but was informed by the Gipsy that
he was too late, as a match had been made with
Bill England. Such was not the case, however, as
Enr'land had withdrawn his deposit, there being
no prospect of effecting a match with Davis This
sort of business cannot do Mace and Davis much
Sood in their advertised sparring tour through
reat Britain and the Continent.
George Ellis has the Dreamland in hand
for repairs, and. to look at the damage, we cannot
understand how she could possibly have been the
overtaking boat in the collision with the Glenelg.
She has a hole in her, pretty well big enough to
allow tbo Hon. John, M.L.0., to crawl through,
and she is cut clean down to the keei. The only
amusing incident in connection with the rad affair
was given us by “Big” Green, who formed one of
the crew. He told us thatdirectly the boat was cut
down, and he found himself under water, “ he
doived up to the surface.” Ellis has just turned
out a 2(-feet half-decker to th‘ order of Mr. Tids-
weil, a counterpart of the VVingadee. The 20-feet
half-deckers are getting very popular iu the har-
bour, and justly so, as they are a very handy class
of boat; and when a 20 footer has to stay at home,
it is time for even the 24-footers to pick up their
moorings.
Lord Rosebery’s worst racing specula-
tion was made shortly after his marriage with his
wealthy wife. A horse called Bonnie Scotland,
belonging to Robert Peck, the trainer, was, at the
eleventh hour, rushed into the posilion of first
favourite for tho Derby, and his lordship, in his
anxiety to secure the Blue Riband of tbo turf,
offered six thousand pounds for this equine trea-
sure on the morning of the race. Strange to sav,
the offer was accepted. Bonnie Scotland came in
with the crowd on that occasion, and, as the horse
displayed the same sociability of character in suc-
ceeding efforts, Lord Rosebery sold it in disgust.
Iu a general way, however, our late noble visitor
i 3 credited with knowing how many beans m ake
live in racing matters. By the way, it isn't every
sporting writer who understands the appropriate-
ness of Lord R.’s colours-”primrose and ross
hoops.” His title and his family name—Primrose
—suggested the daiuty combination.
We commend this par. specially to the
notice of the New South Wales Rowing Associa-
tion. The Victorian Association has already turned
its attention to the intercolonial eight-oar race,
which has been fixed for the sth April next. Mr.
Booth has been chosen as stroke, with power to
select one of his crew, and these two, with Mr. G.
Upward as representative of the Association, will
form the selection committee. If the N.S. Wales
Association does not take the matter in hand im-
mediately after Anniversary Regatta, it would be
better to let tho race lapse than start a crew
patched up at the last moment. Should they bo
willing to row. Messrs. Brett, Brodie. Gaden. Web-
ster, Johnson, Seale, and tho Bros brothers would
form the best crew seen on our waters for years
past. Surely the M.K.C. men will not allow the ! r
difference with the Association to prevent their
rowing in an intercolonial race!
Our tall friend Edwards, the pedestrian,
has been having troublous times in New Zealand.
At Auckland he was sued bv J. H. Pollock,
butcher, of Wellington, for £5O, alleged to have
been lost by the plaintiff acting as guarantor for
Kd wards when the latter had a hotel in Wanganui,
Edwards repudiated the debt, and said thatthe
blank cheque produced with his signature to it
was a forgery. His Worship nonsuited plaintiff
with costs, remarking that tho whole thing was
unsatisfactory. But the case did not end here, as
lie was charged on the following day with perjury,
by swearing that his signature to the cheque was
a forgery. It was stated that the warrant had
been issued in Wellington for his arrest, but the
Court deeded, in the absence of a warrant, that
they could not take action on a telegram, and dis-
missed the case. Edwards did not wait for the
warrant, but started the same afternoon for
’Frisco.
Since the last ’Frisco mail the record for
trotting with running mate has been still further
reduced, in a match between H. B. Winship and
Frank, with running mates. For the first heat
Winship led at the quarter-pole by a length, and
he rem lined that far in front till approaching the
three-quarter pole, where he broke badly, and was
headed instantly. He was quickly brought to a
trot again, but be could not overcome the lead
obtained by Frank, who, coming down the stretch
at a tremendously fast pace, passed under the
wire first toy half a length, in the unparalleled
time of Just two arid a quarter seconds
faster than the previous beat* It was then too dark
to Continue the face, and the heats were postponed
till the following day, when the sport Was )ioof (
Frank* who had not I’ecoVered from the effects of
the fast work, On the preceding day. breaking
badly in bdth heats, dadh of which Win Ship arid
mate woh with base in 2.14 W Frank, wools A
bay gelding, recently tfdtted a mile trial in
“daii yotl take pdi-t iri ldsidg gdrtie of
any kind without losing your temper and be;
having yotlrself like a blabkguafd f ” So Should i-Uri
one of the questions put by the Gdvbtnrh'ent to
would-be employes before admitting them as such
into any btan’ch of the service. The above is
Suggested by an incident that occurred the other
day in a cricket match, between a team of Govern-
ment men and an eleven of country visitors, in
which the former, seeing that they stood a good
show of getting an awful licking, instead of, like
men, trying to retrieve their luck in the second
innings, picked a quarrel upon a very paltry pre-
tence with their visitors, and, refusing to take
their innings, left the field like veritable “cock-
tails.” Surely It is the worst of very bad form for
a party of men, when, seeing that the day is going
against them, to at once “jack” and sulk like a
lot of kids, and to go to and fro talking about
“smacking,” “punching,” &c., &c., to people
whom they should have looked upon, for the time
at least, as their guests.
The entries for the Anniversary Regatta
closed on Saturday night. A crew each from the
Sydney and Mercantile Rowing Clubs have entered
for the senior fours. The 22-ft. open boat race
will be a match between the Rosetta and St. Crispin.
The Lucia, Nereus, and Desdemona are going for
the 19-ft. skiff race. The Guinevere, Sirocco, and
Waitanga will put iu an appeaaance for the 10-ton
and upwards yacht handicap. Beach, Messenger,
Trickett, Clifford, and Pearce are going for the
champion race. The Doris, Australian, Pleiades,
and Sao are entered for the under 10 tons yacht
handicap. For the Laidley Souils, Middleton,
Thompson, and Dobson will represent the senior
club, and Brett, Tremble, and Ives the Mercantile
R.C. The Carlotta, Victor, Lottie, Bronte, and
Adel phi are down for the 21-ft. race. No les9 than
eleven entries have been received for the half-
decker handicap. Messenger and Pearce only
come forwurd for the all-comers’ light skiff handi-
cap. The school race fell through, and the minor
races filled up in good style.
From America we hear that Mr. F. P.
Murray, the amateur walker, who recently
covered a mile in 6 min. 29 3-5 sec., thus beating
Merrill’s record, walked three miles in 21 min. 91-5
sec. ou Novembers. The occasion was in a Mile
Handicap at the Manhattan A.C.’s Annual Election
Day Games. He could probably have wou this
race, but L. E Meyers, “the record breaker,”
offered him a modal to go on and beat the three
miles record. This he was more anxious to do
than win the race, and he did not walk himself out
at the shorter distance. He was, however, close
dose up to the first and second, making the mile
in (1 min. 39 4-5 sec. Ho then continued on with T.
F. Delaney, the new cross-country champion,
jogging by his side, and the times he made were as
follows:—One and a half miles, lb min. 19 2-5 sec. ;
two miles, 13 min. 59 sec.; two and a half miles.
IT min. 40 2-ssec.; three miles, 21 min.9l-ssec The
best previous amateur record was 21 min. 28 see.,
made by H. Webster, in England, in 1880. and the
American amateur record was 21 miD. 42sec., by
Harry Armstrong, made in 1878.
At the annual sale of Mr. Andrew Town’s
Hobartville yearlings, on Thursday last, the high-
est priced ones were bay colt, by King of the
Ring—Jessamine, Mr. A. F. Smart, 600 gs.; brown
colt, by Maribyrnong—Geraldine, Mr. 11. Osborne,
360 gs.; bay colt, bv Rapid Bay—Richmond Belie,
Mr. Wentworth, 200 gs.; bay colt, by Grand
Flaneur—Norah, Mr. T. Brown, 400 gs.; bay colt,
by Maribyrnong—Alsace, Mr. T. Lamond, 250g5.:
chestnut colt, by Grand Flaneur—Amethysb Mr.
Wentworth, 500 gs.; brown filly, bv Maribyrnong
—The Fawn, Hon. James White, 13 Ogs.; brown
filly, by Maribyrnong—Silver Bell, Mr. Chirnside,
500g5.; bay filly, by Grand Flaneur—Egalite. Mr.
J. Monahan, 210 gs. ; chestnut filly, by Grand
Flaneur—Rosedale, Mr. W. R. HalJ, 950 gs.; bay
filly, by Maribyrnong—Agitation. Mr. Chirnside,
300g5.; bayfiliy, by Rapid Bay—White and Blue,
Mr. Wentworth, 250 gs.: brown filly, by Maribyr-
nong—Britannia, Mr.Fennelly, 205g5.; brown filly,
by Grand Flaneur—Auk, Mr. Chirnside. 355 g's.
Out of 47 yearlings, there were only two chestnuts,
and the total sale, including draught stock,
amounted to £l3 604.
The National Regatta Committee have
restricted the race for 24-teet open boats to ama-
teur crews. This race, sailed as it used to be by
professionals, was always looked upon as the sail-
ing race of the day and as a rule the best boat
won ; but with amateur crews, in nine cases out
of ten, it is the crew and not the boat that wins
the race. Goodness knows, the amateurs have
races out of number to sail for duriutr the season,
and we certainly think at our National Regatta
the boats should be sailed without any restriction
as to crews. In the old days, with such men at the
tiller as poor George Montgomery, Ellis, Cole-
brook, Fletcher, &c., it was indeed a treat to see
the manner in which the boats were handled, and
every inch taken out of them, but unfortunately
among the amateurs the best boats are in the worst
hands. Take, for instance, the Victor, by far
the fastest twenty-four footer in commission.
Tt has been enough to make the lover of a fast
boat heartsick to see the way she has been mur-
dered during the past season with an amateur
crew, while we guarantee with a good man at the
tiller, she would have carried everything before
her. The result of the restriction of crews will
end iu the extinction of t*e professional open-
boat sailer, a result that must be looked upon
with regret by DoatiDg men who remember the
exciting 24-ft. matches in years gone by. We are
beginning to think first-class open-boat sailing re-
ceived a death shockwhen Mr. Hyam retired.
Count F. de Lagrange who for more than
a score of years has been in the foremost rank of
the owners and breeders of thorough-bred horses
in France and England, died on Nov, 22, of gout,
aged sixty-seven years. His breeding establish-
ment was the largest in France, even at the period
of his death, notav itbstandiDg the large inroads
made upon the stock, by the sales ot broodmares,
which have taken place there within the past two
or three years, and the many fast racers owned by
him have frequently carried his colours—blue, red
sleeves and cap—first past the wiuuiDg post.
Among his more notable victories have been the
following: 1858, won tne French Derby with Ven-
tre St. Gris ; 1859, same race with Black Prince:
1861, same race with GabrM d’Estrees and Cam-
bridgeshire with Palestro; 1864. Epsom Oaks with
Filic de l’Air; 1865, Epsom Derby, Two Thousand
Guineas, Grand Prix de Paris, and Doncaster St.
Leger with Gladiateur; 1877, Two Thousand
Guineas with Cbamant; 1879, St Leger with
Rayon d’Or; 1883, Criterion Stakes with Archiduc.
The latter was installed a prominent favourite for
the Epsom Derby of 1884: but the Count's death
causes his disqualification, and the many engage-
ments made by the stable in the stakes of the next
two seasons are now void. Included in the list are
sixteen for the Grand Prix of 1884, and twelve for
the same fixture in 1885. Deceased was elected to
the French Assembly from the department of
Gers id 1849 and 1853, and was very popular with
the Government while Louis Napoleon was Em-
peror. His son and nephew will probably continue
the stable.
W. G. George, although he again altered
the amateur record for ten miles on Nov. 17, by
beating his previous fastest, viz.. 52 min. 56V£ sec ,
by Wz sec., did not runup to his trial, which was
stated to be faster than the best on record, and the
times accomplished by Deerfoot, Levitt, and Jack-
son still head the poll. The amateur, however,
had a cold day, and it is possible he may do the
trick on a more favourable opportunity. At all
events we may confidently anticipate a nearer ap-
proach to the professional time at his next essay,
Three days previous L. E. Myers gave an exhibi-
tion half mile at the Pittsburg Athletic Club Meet-
ing, doing the distance in 1 min. 56sec. The course
was a lap and a few yards, with long and sharp
corners, and a stillish breeze prevailed. Myers like-
wise was not run out, having promised E." P, Baird


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea cakes, and pastry.*
Ask for Hookings’ High-class Wines, all
aged and reliable. Drink no others. Sampling:
Cellars, 143 Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers, it destroys all
noxious insects. Tins Is.*
ARNOLD’S BALSAM OF HOREHOUND.
nothing so quickly cures Coughs, Whooping
JfOURh, Bronchitis, Asthma, Loss of Voice, In-
fluenza, Hoarseness and Weak Chest, as this
"ACSkM. Excellent for children. Very safe and
reliable in Croup. This is the best expectorant
now in use, relieves by dissolving the congealed
P“ le kjn. A single dose quietens and gives relief;
* small bottle often cures. Ask for *' Arnold V’
offe 11 ’ B P urlolU, imitations are sometimes
Wells' “ Rough on Corns.”— Ask for Well**
Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, wart*, bunions. Mose*.
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Aifonts. ”
not to show him up. The circumstances were as
follows:—Baird and four others were engaged in a
half mile race, and it was arranged that Smith, the
starter, after having fired the pistol for the race,
was 15sec later to fire another shot as a signal for
Myers. The cartridge for the other runners, how-
ever, proved the last, and when the pistol snapped
the second time and no report followed, Myers,
who had taken one step forward, stepped back and
looked to the starter, who then sent him off by
word of mouth. Once off, Myers went at such a
nace that at a quarter of a mile he was leading.
He then eased and allowed Baird to come up until
a furlong from home, when he again darted away
up to the last ten yards, from whence he trotted
in. On being told the time, he would not believe
it "at first, but it was corroborated by another
watch-holder, and two others who started their
watches, made it Msec, quicker, the difference
being the time he lost on the mark through the
missttre.
SPORTING GLEANINGS.
Cricket is dead. The Molong Marion thus
slays it in four lines: “No sports in Molong on
New Year's Day. The streets appeared deserted.
A cricket match was played between the married
and single, and was won by the former.” Cricket,
of course, is not “sport.” We know what is,
i hough—reading the Molong Marion Ike
arrived all sate at Christchurch (N.Z.) £lOO
match, for one mile and a half, arranged between
Metcalfe’s Australia and Venable’s Patience, at
Parkes ...Mr. William Filgate has Deen appointed
secretary to Adelaide Tattersall’s—Two accidents
occurred at the Railway Jockey Club race meet-
ing, Tenterfield. Two horses collided on the
course, the smash ending in the death of ihe horse
Lummocks was riding, and, during the running of
the Town Plate, Sam fell aud broke his neck.. At
Nymagee, Budd defeated Paskins in a ,50 yards’
race, for £lOO. Simpson, of Dapto, defeated
Vidler, of Bulli, 150 yards, for £5O
J. Murray, of DuaediD, N.Z., has accepted Donald
Dinnie’s challenge for a dancing competition lor
£lOO aside The Australian jockey Londonnelly,
who rode several races in New Zealand for Messrs.
Mason and Vallace, has been engaged to ride for
M. Couve, the French owner of horses in the
Mauritius Uhlan’s owner not being satisfied
with his New year's Day’s defeat by War Eagle
over the Randwiek “ sticks, ’ and Mr. Mayo being
willing, the pair are matched once more; distance
two miles, 10st. up, and a slashing rac< - expected.
Sir Thomas Eider has decided to dispose of all
nis horses in training, some time in May next—
Berwick (Vic.) races, January 19. Mulgrave won
the Maiden Plate, Disturbance the Hurdle Race,
and Boomerang the Berwick Handicap —The
council of the Adelaide Volunteer Force have
proposed to the other colonies that a team of
Australian riflemen be formed to compete at
Wimbledon and other English ritie matches. We
do not think the idea will "gee.” The sum of
£4977 went through the totalisator at Christchurch
(N Z.) Summer meeting—’the lr sh hors® Ingo-
mar, by Unc»s. out of .Wild Deer, has arrived at
Christchurch (N.Z ), accompanied by a mare named
Corey ra, by Tom King, out of Oerintha, by New-
rainster ...A sporting character at the Lower
Heathcote meeting, who took a ticket iu the
totalisator on all the horses in each race, cleared
£2O 9s.
m * *
While the Massachusetts Rifle Associa-
tion’s semi-monthly glassball and clay-pigeon
shoot was in progress ut the Walnut Hill range,
Nov. 21, a large covey of quail alighted about 150
yards from the traps. A general rush for the live
game was made by the surprised spectators, who,
however, were so much excited that only one
brace of birds was secured t-'porting circles in
England circulate the rumour that au American
millionaire is to establßh a gigantic racing-stud
lhere. He will not coniine himself Jo American
horses. Our Mr. Long s career on the turf was
rather short... Pie eaters to the number ot thirty-
three participated in a competition for three
raizes at J. M. Gusky’s, Pittsburg (Pa.), Nov. 16.
Each contestant tackled ten pics, eight inches in
diameter, and weighing fourteen ounces apiece,
and Ben F. Buzzard won by stowing away 6% pies;
C. Parsons second, 6)4 I and T. Welunott third, C.
Teemer, the coming American sculler - , has ordered
two shells from Ruddock, the Yankee ‘Joe Don-
nelly.” A young Englishman residing in San
Francisco proposes to make the circuit of the
world on a velocipede, leaving the Golden Gate of
New \ ork in the Spring, as he intends to take in
the Chinese Empire and Turkestan in liis travels,a
lively time doubtless awaits him.. Onoof the best
fighting dogs in America is named Mrs. Langtry.,..
A vessel arriving at New Bedford a day or two ago
brought an eagle which alighted on the masthead
when the vessel war 1500 miles from any land. ..
Captain F. J. Thompson, well known to Anglo-
Indians for his passion for sport, which had gained
for him the soubriquet of “Shikari Thompson,”
died recently at Simla. India During the past
thirty years, he led for the most part a solitary life
in the jungle, supporting himself mainly by the
produce of his gun Mr. Winans and his two
sons are stated to have slaughtered 196 deer this
season, an average of seven for each day they
were out. in a Scotch forest. Mr. Winans rents
over 200,000 acres in the counties of Inverness and
Ross, for which he pays about £lB,OOO a year, so
that each deer costs him about £lOO in rent alone.
Very dear sport Billy Donohue, the well-known
American jockey, contemplates atrip to Australia
upon the completion of the American racing
season The trotting stallisn, Maxy Cobb,
was recently sold in America for £3OOO
Fred Stevens, of Flushing, L. 1., on Nov. 14, de-
voured thirty-seven full-grown doughnuts in less
than an hour, thereby winning a wager. That they
interfered with his digestion is not surprising
In a rat-killing contest at Trenton, N.J., the winner
destroyed five rodents in the slow time of 35 sec.
Jacko has a record of twenty-five in 28 sec
Says the N.Y. Clipper: “ Wallace Ross last week
received a telegram notifying him that he had
been matched to row George Bubear on the
Thames, and he will leave for England in a few
day 8.” The Two Thousand Guineas of 1885 closed
with 90 subs., and the One Thousand Guineas with
65subs. The Middle Park Platb of 1884 has secured
128 entries, and the Dewhurst Plate 100....
Some men who were engaged in catching flounders
off Milbank, Eng., found in their nets a young seal,
about three feet in length. The animal was placed
in the “ well ” of the boat, in which there were a
number of flounders. These it very speedily ate,
although at ihe time it was apparently suffering
from the effects of the Thames water.... The
Crown Prince Rudolph of Austria has purchased
the well-known sporting estate of Rothenbaus,
Bohemia, from the Countess Thun for £240,000 ...
At the recent international swimming races at
Berlin, Prussia, one mile was swum in 41 min. 3
sec., and the winner of the under-water contest
covered 135 ft. In the Hercules diving competi-
tion, tho winner lifted a total of 83 lb., having re-
mained under water 1 min 21 sec John L. Sulli-
van has a brother, now 17 years old, whose muscu-
lar developin' nt is such that he will probably
surpass John in strength and activity in a few
Uau’s Alfred Mace, son of Jem Mace, is at
present giving a series of evangelical lectures in
the North of England.
PERSONAL ITEMS.
The London Daily News has despatched
Mr. Macdonald to Egypt to discover tidings of
Mr. O’Donovan, the D.N.’s special correspondent
in the Soudan, whose perilous enterprise bus. there
is too much reason to fear, terminated fatally.
The Orient s.s. Ouzco landed O’Donovan at Suez,
in July last, and his mission was to make straight
for the False rrophet. The jovial gentleman,
however, expressed a belief to his fellow voyagers
that ho would never get back home again, and it
would seem that his prediction has come off.
A young Englishman of wealth, a masher,
and it is said a poet and athlete, has gone off his
insignificant head over Mary Anderson, and pushes
his passion to the extent of dressing as a trouba-
dour and haunting the stage door with a flute.
When he first weakened, h« never told his love,
but let concealment detain him around the corner
until Miss Anderson tripped out to her carriage,
when he stepped up and offered her a magnificent
bouquet. She declined it. So now the perishing
Petrarch simply kneels every night, as the lady
passes out, and pours his soul in song.
Master Joseph Adams (aged six), of Tum-
barumba, evidently has a destiny; but, unless it
alters its present mode of operations, Master
Joseph is mightv apt to get killed before he be-
comes a hero. When only a baby he was attacked
by a dog, and had half his face chawed off. A
little later on, a snake was proceeding to evict him
out ot his cradle, but his Pa happened to be on
hand with an axe, and this mad® things sick for
his snakeship. On the 4th instant. Joseph, like his
namesake the Egyptian Premier, fell down a well,
but being speedily fished up and squeez’d out, and
hung across a fence to dry, he soon recovered.
This was lucky for Joseph, because it enabled him
to fool round the business end of a pet foal next
day, and tbeieby secure a kick on the forehead,
from which it is doubtful if he ever Will recover.
Lord Rosebery’s personal appearance
was not (ard we blush as write that last w. rd),
commented unon in particularly admiring terms,
at the Flemington Race Course. A general
remark among men who remember him
as a youthful sportsman, somo twelve or fifteen
years ago, wa’ that his erstwhile “ freshness ” had
been replaced by a sort of pro. like appearance ;
ii oreover, his lordship cheats tne barber. In the
old days, when his innocent lookmg face took the
fancy—so said gossip -of the Princess Louis\ the
fortunate Earl used to have hi: hair cut oftenei
than he does now, and looked all the better for it.
Since he became so thick with the Grand Old Man
he has taken to playing the “ heavy ” role, and
candour compels ns to add that "juvenile lead”
fitted him a good deal better. But as all this must
be very distressing to some of his worshippers, we
will haste to smooth them down by remarking
that the fair Countess looks not a day older, and if
possible, even more amiable than on the morniDg
she was married.
UDONOVAN,
The War Correspondent, slain with Hieks Pacha’s Army.
Ihe great Matthew Arnold was a failure
in America, chiefly because people couldn't hear
him when he spoke. Fean euk says that his first ap-
pearance had a pitiable result. He lectured on the
respective claims of literary and scientific educa-
tion, in favour of the former, but seemed to forget
that his splendidly large audience had brains of
their own, had read Tyndall and Spencer as well as
himself, and many held positions in the world of
literature and science o' ly less eminent than Mr.
Arnold’s own. His physique is opposed to all ideas
of manliness: he is effeminate in aspect, and has a
meaningless stare, weak voice hadly managed, and
no idea of elocution. People called "louder” at
the beginning of the evening, but, before the end,
the majority put on their hats and walked home,
regretting the eight shillings they had paid lor
seats.
Two more Australian ladies have been
distinguishing themselves by their musical abili-
ties at home. Miss Mitchell is credited with a
voice like Albani’s, a contralto-soprano, and in
florid as well as pathetic compositions gained
great praise. Miss Eva Orris a pianis'e who has
been studying under Giovanna Sgambatiat Rome.
On the 24th November she made her public dehilt
in Dublin, and the Expuess said, of her Chopin’s
Polonaise:—“lt caused no little excitement
among the audience that such a noble climax,
after so long a crescendo, could be attained—
could grow beneath the hands of the slight,
the fragile, and graceful girl who sat at
the keys on Saturday ; for, in the whole
range of the concert bravura school, there
is not a more physically exacting piece of execu-
tion than this polonaise in A flat. ’ She also played
Beethoven’s sonata in ►* minor, with all the re-
peats, and Chnpin’s.Berceuse. Miss Orr. who will
probably return to the colonies, is daughter of an
affluent squatter who was well known on the
Avoca.
So Jardine Smith has taken wing to the
asphodel meadows! A good man, an ab.e writer,
a generous disputant, and a trusty friend; he was
a partisan, but without bitterne s; his pen stabbed,
but without venom. By temperament he was
happy% and his stars were fairly kind. Many years
ago, somewhere about twenty, he played for a
while with the saltpetre and gun-cotton of social
questions, but he tired of the play and passed over
from Melbourne Punch to a permanent post on
the Anaus. He liss been there over a dozen years.
He had not too much ability for a journalist. No
man has. But he was very much above the level
of the conventional press writer. He whs a littera-
teur by ins'inct. The calls of the daily Press, how-
ever, play havoc with such instincts. He died at
his residence in Gore-street, Fitzroy, on the 13th
instant, aged 49 years. We don’t know that any of
bi« brain work can be built up into a monument,
but his life has borne fruit in the clearness with
which many political questions arc seen by the
people of Victoria.
One of the most decidedly dead men
under this ea,th to-day is a party by the name of
Morgan. Seldom or never has it fallen to the lot
of any man to he successfully killed three times in
three consecutive days; but this was the luck of
Morgan. Last Monday week he was tound float-
ing in the Duck River, and, on being hauled out,
it was at onco discovered that he was what Mr.
Mantelini would call a “demnition dead body.”
That was death the first. On Tuesday morning he
was brought by train to Parramafta, and, not-
withstanding the fact that t.h« police were in-
formed of his arrival, he was allowed to remain
lying in the broiling sun on one of the most con-
spicuous portions of the platform for fully two
hours, with scarcely anything to cover his defence-
less form. The result was that Morgan was fatally
sunstruck, and before help could be obtained he
died once more. One would think his luck might
have given him a rest after that; but it appeals
there was a suspicion still entertained that he was
either “foxing,” to fool the police, or else he had
felonious designs on the wearing apparel and other
moveables of the corpses lodged at llookwood. So
the authorities shunted the hearse-truck on to the
wrong sot of rails in front of the graveyard gates,
and in another instant a goods train crashed clean
through, arid sent poor Morgan s body Hying across
the road. And now he spends all his spare time
wondering whether they’d take him up and cre-
mate him.
We are serry to observe, by his last letter
from Portsea prison, that the Claimant is getting
dull. He talks about “Court Favourites,” about
Gladstone “driving the people of England mad, as
he has driven those of Ireland;” of his cousin, be
says: “ I suppose some of thegreat ones have cut
him from coming tome, but I should have thought
that, having the Wolsey blood in him, he would
have stood to his colours until death.” He prays
nightly, he says, for the rest of the soul of Guil-
ford Onslow, and is generally a driveller. When
in his splendour, we saw the Claimant often; at
the Junior Gun Club at Hendon, at the Waterloo
Hotel, at the theatre, his appearance in a box at
which used to stop the performance for half an
hour or so while the pit aud gallery cheered
vociferously. During either of his trials, any
manager would give “ Sir Roger ” £2O for leave to
advertise his attendance ; but there was always
too much of the grand seigneur (real or assumed)
about him to allow of bis taking the money. His
manner, it was generally allowed, was perfect.
His predilection for always dressing in black
was, perhaps, the most trying ordeal, so far as
“ deportment ” is concerned, that be could
have been subjected to; but notwithstanding his
sable garments, his enormous proportions, and a
fondness for anointing his locks with bear's grease,
he held his own with all his associates from a
social point of view, although he numbered
amongst them such distinguished men as Earl
Rivers, with whom, indeed, ho was seen constantly
driving about. The Earl supplied the Claimant all
through, not only with ample funds for the menus
plaisbrs, but with a double brougham and a magni-
ficent >air of bay horses. Tne equipage was
cheered to the echo in whatever part of tbo city it
was seen, the applause at times not being unmin-
gled with jocose allusions to the corpulency of the
; occupant, and loud cries of “Wagga Wagga,”
1 “ Bogle,” &c., were not unfrequently heard ns he
drove bv. It is to be regretted that, having
■ formed an intimacy with Sergeant Bailautine,
the Claimant, even before Lady Tichborne's death,
I commenced to develop proclivities of a decidedly
giddy nature—a circumstance which induced him to
rusticate the Missus and to commence a course of
study of English opeia Bouffe under the auspices
of a lady named Ro-e Bell. But though he sinned
much against the ethics of morality, &c., he gained
universal admiration for one thing -Roger kept
his nerve throughout, even when the wretched
defence offered by Dr. Kenealy became wilder and
wilder, and no hope remained but in a disagree-
ment of the jury. Stolid, sphinx-like, and phlegm-
atic, he was immovable to ihe the last, and when
the sentence was about to be pronounced no one
could detect even the twitching of an eyebrow.
When the jury were about to come in, we remem-
ber, he merely took off his watch and (bain and
banded them to young Boa e, and nodded, with a
half smile to the reporters, with whom he had
grown, during the many months of his trial, to be
well acquainted. He will be out in less than a
year, and is to be well looked after. His wife is
still in the workhhouse at Stoneham.
Far back in the sixties, Thomas De Lacy
Moffat, was Colonial Treasurer of Queensland, in
Mr. Herbert’s Cabinet. Those were the joyous
young days of the eolor>y, when immigrants were
pouring in in shoals and spouting their land orders
in all directions. Every ship brought, besides, a
saloon full of young fellows, mostly too lively for
the old country, but also mostly belonging to good
families, and bred as gentlemen—the real article.
We remember that there were in the hotels in
Brisbane, at one time, two grandsons of different
Dukes, one son of a British ambassador at a prin-
cipal Continental state, one ex-army man, brother
to a baronet, one son of a baronet, five cadets of
county families, besides sons of barristers, and
merchants, and doctors, past counting. The first
night after landing, the Hon John E went on
the tear, just for devilment, for be didn’t drink
After raising Cain through the town, h® finished
his performances by going up to the gates of the
old lock-up, then opposite the Royal Hotel—but
now improved off the face of the earth—md
thundered at the panels wit h an oak walking stick.
He was immediately admitted—to the cells; and
next morning old Brown, too P.M. (rest his sou), a
“John Collins” vrai “his” whenever he was
asked) presided as usual, while Bernays, now clerk
of the Legislative Assembly, was C.P.S. In due
course, John E was called, and stepped into the
doek with his customary bland smile, and old
Brown commenced to lecture him severely on the
enormity of his offence, thus commencing
his career in the new world, and so on. But,
meanwhile, somebody whispered Bernays, and he
got up and whispered Brown, who suddenly
merged the magisterial in the paternal, and
warned “his young friend” not to so indulgo in
vivacious pranks again, and discharged him with
a caution This was about the last case, so the
Court adjourned just then, and Bernays managed
accidentally to meet the Hon. John be was a
grandson of the late Duke of Portland—in the
passage, and introduced himself. Then Brown
came accidentally upon them, and in the scene
which followed mentioned incidentally that his
was a John Collins. Let's see what became of all
these boys. There was Hall, a dapper young
follow who had missed his mark in Canada, but
went to old Bowen’s tirst reception after landing
in a ritie uniform, bottle green, very swell. He
had been a lieutenant in a Canadian militia regi-
ment, the colonel of which was, we remember,
grandfather of another of the boys in the same
ship, and Hall and the grandson were great friends
in consequence. How easy it is for lads to strike
up great friendships, ehou I Well, Hall made love
to a barmaid in a country pub.—immoral love, for
he wa9 too tine a gentleman to have any sense of
aonour where a mere daughter of the people
was concerned—although among his own class
his word was sacred. Well, where were we ?
On, yes. He mashed the gill, and a stock-
man whom ho cut out mashed him. Threw
an empty bottlo at him one night. It hit
his head, and killed him. Then there was the
young barrister. Fortune courted him. He had
only to hold out his hand, and briefs would have
been bundled Into it. But ho crooked his elbow
Instead, and, when last heard of, was pick and
shovel man in a railway camp. The baronet’s son
did better. Wo always latterly inclined to the
bojief that his father had anticipated itose-
bery by marrying into the Hebrew nation.
Anyhow, the son husbanded his draft, haunted
cheap auctions, and started out peddling Crimean
shirts and coloured handkerchiefs, and nicknacks
generally, and did very well. Then he settled in
town as a money-lender, and at last went home
again—probably with a little pile. A Scotch
judge’s son ran riot, cadged in a swell sort of a
way from station to station, and ultimately be-
came a State schoolmaster on £3 per week, in
which condition he married an assistant school-
marm, and remained until Iris father died, when
otf he went home to to a fortune. Then there was
the young doctor. lie was introduced to a practice
worth £lOOO a year, free gratis for nothing ; went
down to Brisbane to register his diploma, and—
well, he was so desperate for a pick-me-up one
morning a few weeks later that he collared a riding
whip from a hotel chimney-piece, pawned it, was
run lq, and got six months. Ilia shipmates got up
a purse and a petition. Bowen granted him a
pardon conditional on his being taken straight on
board ship, and he went home, too. Another,
well, he gut lost in the bush near Rockhampton,
and ho was never afterwards heard of. And the
other ducal party : he and the stupid doctor gut
very thick. So thiek that it affected their speech
sometimes. 1 1 was at one of these times that the
Hon. was blowing prodigiously about his shooting
feats, and, the doctor bPing disputatious there
ensued a sporting little bet. There was a back
yard to t e hotel, and only about ten feet of this
were visible lrom the passage. The doctor
wagered that the Hon. couldn't hit him as he
darted across that space. The Hon. booked the
wrger, and lugged out his Manton doublebarrel.
Anotticr fellow, ex-Captain 11th Hussars, lately
billiard-marking on the Hodgkinson. gave the
word. l'he doctor darted, the Hon. fired,
and hit ! The doctor wasn’t killed. He had a
narrow sqeak, but was a stout fellow, and while
all Brisbane ran* with the episode it was never-
theless what is termed “ hushed up.” Well, but
to return to De Lacy Moffat. He was a grand
fellow. A gentleman from keel to truck, handsome
as a demi-god,;and apparently well off. Ho died,
h jwever, a young man, and left his affairs pretty
mixed. The late Sir Joshua Peter Bell was one of
his most’intimate friends, and the young Moffata
were on the easiest terms with Joshua Peter. So
when, as President of the Legislative Council
Joshua Peter Bell was acting Governor during Sir
Arthur Kennedy’s absence, he made young
De Lacy Moffat his Aide-de-camp, and young
De Lacy rode the liashest horses—anything he
could get a saddle on was quiet enough for a
young Queensland rough-rider of his sort. So
it happened that when his Excellency the
Acting-Governor was riding out with his Aide-
de-Camp, they ctme to a gate which had to be
openea. Whereupon the Aido-de-Camp, whoso
hor-e was unmountable without seven men to
bold him, sang out in ftn easy style to His Excel-
lency, “ 1 say, look here, Peter, just get down and
open that gate, will you?” and “Peter” got
down, too, and told the story himself. Good
fellows, all that lot. And, oh Ito come to what
set our pen going, we have just heard that De
Lacy Moffat has gone “home’' with a lixed pur-
pose just accomplished. He has ’listed as a lull
private in Her Majesty’s Life Guards, blue. And
the Queen won’t have many moro gallant so dier*
than tUe young Queenslander.
♦ * *
Whatever a Melbourne barrister may lack
in true eloquence he makes up for in a certain
vigorous kind of metaphor. During the course of
a civil action at the Collingwood Court, the legal
gentleman who appeared for the complainant re-
ferred to his learned friend for the defendant as
“an elongated lump of humanity.” But upon the
“learned friend” describing the ‘‘legal gentle-
man” as “a young puppy,” the Bench interfered,
and any further interenange of civilities was
abruptly stopped.... Mr. W. D. Gould, a resident
of the Western districts for over thirty years and
for many years engaged on the rural press’ has
left for his native borne, Massachusetts Mr. J.
Russell Crone has resigned the editorship of the
Forbes and Parkes Gazette William Bull,
hairdresser, Grafton, shaved a customer on Friday
last; remarked, “ what fine weather we’re having
—feel razor easy, sir ’’—and the other usual bar*
bade conventialisms, and then stepped out into
tne next room und six-barrel-revolvered his brains
against the ceiling. Gambled a little. Hence this
thuBness... £15,000 was the only New Year’s Gift a
young stockman on a Glen Inues station received
by the kind gift of a distant relative who was con-
siderate enough to “step out” with the old year;
but, as the stockman happens to be a careful
young man, he thinks he can worry along with
that until he drops in for something better
• • •
Sir G. Bowyer, M P., an eccentric lawyer,
bequeathed, when dying, his heart to a certain
Catholic church. The heart, having been em-
balmed, is now suspended in a glass globe, her-
metically sealed. Very few lawyers bequeath
their hearts. They know they belong to a certain
person, who is sure to claim them... Ella Wheeler,
the “ Poetess of Passion,” is about 24 years old,
petite in figure, with square shoulders, mobile ex-
pression, sweet-, refined mouth, and very brown
eyes. She wears a JLangtry bang, and dresses
plainly, but with a neat niceness. Altogether, she
is prepossessing.... Madame Zieger—better known
as Alboni, the one-time great singer—lives at the
village of Vilie D Avray, where Gambetta died.
She is 56, and a great walker .. A Sanscrit poetess,
Ramabhaia, is now guest of Professor Mux Muller,
in London. She has extraordinary memory, and
extemporises Sanscrit poetry with great facility.
....The humorous Bill Nye is spelling at Wiscon-
sin, with a bad spine. Ho says: “I have had hug®
offers to be funny, but I want to get my Bpin®
into shape this winter. Then I’ll see what
I can do best for a steady thing-whether
ill lecture, or go horse-trading.” Gerald
Massey delivered his first lecture in America
to less than 60 people, half of them being re-
porters Meissonier was commissioned by a
vulgaj showy woman to paint her portrait. Ho
did not want to do so, but had no ground of re-
fusal, and no price could save him from her
wealth. He painted her, with absolute fidelity, as
a lady of the period; the paint on her cheeks wa*
reproduced, the dark pencilling round her eyes,
the powder on her shoulders, and the wrinkles of
her skin. The portrait was indignantly refused,
“Very well,” said Meissonier, who had expected
this; and ho hung it in the Palais de i’lndustrie.
where it ia the cynosure of thousands of sneering
eyes. He has been offered far more than the prica
lor it now. But he simply says: “It stops where it
is.”....Liszt has 30 pupils; he lives at Weimar...
A cousin of Sara Bernhardt, Miss Rosa Bruck a
pretty brunette, has debuted at the Comedie Fran-
vaise


G. CMARINI'S
tom ITALIAN CM!
MENAGERIE.
Beyond the shadow of a doubt the Most Magnifl-
oent, Most Costly, and Most Powerful Show ever
seen in this or any other country.
/T*
IL.NI
NOW OPEN EVERY NIGHT AT 7 O’CLOCK,
AT BELMORE PARK.
Follow the Crowd and Carriages.
Go whffre the Fashion, the Beauty, and the Elite
of every city that tt is Great Show visits
CONGREGATE NIGHTLY,
where they behold a grand consolidated aggre-
gation of
The best Bare-baclc Riders !
The best Equilibrists I
The best Posturers 1
Tho best Vaulters I The best Athletes !
The best Tumblers ! The best Leapers !
The best Pantomimists !
The best Female Riders 1 and
The best Trick Horses and Ponies !
ever brought to the Continent of Asia.
The most beautiful female artistes that have ever
charmed an arenie audience, will exhibit here
for a brief period only.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS OF THE STUPENDOUS
ATTRACTION
wherever it exhibits.
CONSTANT CHANGES OF PROGRAMME !
Seating Accommodation for 5000 Spectators.
SPLENDID AND UNRIVALLED HORSEB
Educated by Signor Chiarini.
Also, the Wild Beast how in connection.
ROYAL BENGAL TIGERS !
ROYAL AFRICAN LIONS !
BLACK TIGERS from the Jungles of Central
India I
TWO ELEPHANTS FROM CEYLON !
Monkeys, Apes, Baboons, &c., from Borneo, Java
and Sumatra.
MONSTER LIVING ANACONDAS. FROM
BRAZIL.
EDUCATED ZEBRA FROM AFRICA.
TWO WHITE SACRED BULLS,
From the Sacred City of the Hindoo, Benares
India.
LILLIPUTIAN PONIES, &c.
WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS,
AFTERNOON PERFORMANCES.
Doors open at 2 o’clock. Performance to com-
mence at 3 o’clock.
PLAN OF THE SEATS CAN BE SEEN AT THE
CIRCUS TICKET OFFICE FROM 10 P.M DAILY.
PRICES OF ADMISSION :
Boxes, containing six chairs ... £1 10s.
Dress Circle chairs ss.
Stalls (carpeted seats) 3s.
Pit 3s.
Children under 10 yea
arts of the Pavilion.
s of age half price to all
L. MAYA*
Secretary.
N.B.—All business communications connected
with the administration of the Circus, apply to
Lorenzo Maya, Chlarini’s Circus.
CHIARINI’S CIRCUS.
WANTED, immediately, for Chiariui's Circus,
12 LA DlES—Parlour Skaters, on rollers—
lor the ‘’GRAND SKATING CARnIVAL,” which
is soou to be produced at the Circus. None but
Those who have had experience in Parlour Roller
Skating need apply. Apply, from 9 to 12 a.m., at
the Circus Office, Belmore Park.
L. MAYA, Secretary.
THEATRE ROYAL.—Under the Management of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner, & Musgrotb.
THIS THURSDAY EVENING,
and every evening until further notice,
THE GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME
of
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK,
Prices of Admission :
DRESS CIRCLE, 55.; STALLS, 35.; FAMILY
CIRCLE, 28.
P E R A HOUSE.
Lessee and Manager W. J. Wilson
Stage Manager for Mr. Darrell.. Mr. J. H. Rainford
Treasurer .. W. Wilson, jun.
BACK FROM THE GRAVE.
Another gigantic success achieved by the Austra-
lian actor-author,
MR. GEORGE DARRELL,
in his mystic sensation drama,
BACK FROM THE GRAVE
BACK FROM THE GRAVE.
Sydney St. Aubrey Mr. GEORGE DARRELL.
Notwithstanding the enormous success, LAST
NIGHT hut ONE of
BACK FROM THE GRAVE.
Furniture supplied from Globe Furniture Ware-
house, Park aud Castlercagh streets.
Dress Circle, 65. ; Stalls, 33. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Secretary to Mr. Darrell, Mr. John Hardwicke.
ITli-e 12301121101© 33vLgrg"ies!
—Xm
Mmr
NO SECOND CHEAP HOUSE.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, ONLY,
FOB GOOD GOODS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS & WAGGONETTES,
BACKBOARD WAGGONS, AND EVERY STYLE OF BDGOY.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Clarence-street.
Atm
PATEN
STEAM & HYDRAULIC GAUGES,
Engine and Boiler Fittings.
SCHAFFER & BUDENBERG,
of Magdeburg and Manchester,
TT AVE appointed the undersigned as their SOLE AGENTS for the
Australian Colonies. Orders for Steam, Vacuum, and Hydraulic
Gauges, Thalpotasimeters, and ail classes of Engine and Boiler Fittings,
are solicited.
SCHAFFER and BUDENBERG carried off the
CHIEF AWARDS and MEDALS at the SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and
ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
WE & CO., Colt Agents, 007 George Street,
OPPOSITE HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Peapes & Shaw’s
“S T AND ARP" CLP THING.
We have now open, for the SUMMER SEASON, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE ASSORTMENT OF
GENTLEMEN’S READY-MADE CLOTHING to be found in any house in the city.
PEAPES & SHAW’S
STANDARD CLOTHING
THE BEST VALUE
IN SYDNEY.
“STANDARD” TWEED SUITS,” 335. 6d., &55., 435., 455., 505., 555.
BLUE SERGE SUITS, 355. and 435.
TWEED SAC COATS, 6s. 6d. each, suitable for g-arden or office.
1 1 WEED SAC COATS, 15s. 6d. and 21s
BLUE SERGE SAC COATS, 18s. 6d., 21s.
TWEED TROUSERS, lf.s. 6d., 13s. 6d., 16s. 6d.
TROUSERS and VESTS, 255. and 30s.
NICHOLLS’ LIGHT SUMMER DUST COATS, THIRTY SHILLINGS
LIGHT TWEED OVERCOATS, 428., 505., 555.
"SPECIAL” COLOURED HOLLAND SAC COATS, 4s. 6d. EACH.
CHRISTY’S HATS, all new summer shapes.
BOYS’ MAN-O’-WAR SUITS, guernsey
and
All
whistle, complete.
RELIABLE MACINTOSH CLOTHING
descriptions made to our special order.
BOATING, CRICKETING, and LAWN-TENNIS
H^TS.
WHITE FLANNEL SACS, for cricketing or boat-
ing, 235. 6d.
FLANNEL TROUSERS, 13s 6d. per pair.
WHITE and COLOURED LINEN DUCK VESTS,
9s. 6d. each ; 3 for 275.
WHITE and COLOURED DUCK COATS, military
or roll collars, 6s. Od., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d , 14s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 21s.
DUCK TROUSERS, 12s. 6d. per pair.
CHINA SILK SAC and DUST COATS, 15s. 6d.,
18s. 6d., 21s.
BLACK A LPACA COATS, 10s. 6d., 13s. 6d., 15s. 6d.
BLACK CASHMERE and RUSSELL CORD
COATS, 18s. od., 21s.
PEAPES and SHAW, G-eorge-streec.
OUR MERCERY DEPARTMENT is stocked with all the LEADING NOVELTIES for the Summer
Season.
GENT’S COTTON LISLE THREAD and SUMMER MERINO HALF-HOSE, in plain colours or fancy
stripes, from 12s. per dozen.
GENT'S UNDER SHIRTS, India Gauze, Gosamer, Summer Merino (coloured and white), Balbriggan,
Anglo-Indian, and Spun Silk, with Pants to match.
GENT’S WHITE SHIRTS, O.F. or 8.8., 305., 405., 50s. half-dozen.
FRENCH PRINTED REGATTA and OXFORD SHIRT, collars attached, 80s., 405., 425. the hslf-dozcn.
NEW LINEN COLLARS.—The Beresford, Seymour, Army and Navy, General, Admiral, with patent
side tabs for holding scarf in position.
SCARFS in all the Newest Shapes, Colourings, and Designs—The Masher, Cyprus, Rosebery, Marquis,
Albert, Four-in-Hand.
UMBRELLAS, 8,10,12,14,16 ribs, Natural Sticks, Nickel Fittings, from 10s. 6d. to 355.
THE NEW TITANIA UMBRELLA, folds neater and closer than any umbrella, 1 guinea each.
THE NEW COMBINATION BRACE and DRAWERS SUSPENDERS.
SILK HANDKERCHIEFS, 215., 305., 40s. the dozen.
PEAPES & SHAW, George-streot.
Jaie&MLAJRiTXNT a comfy,
389 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite Royal Hotel).
FOR
Bicycles,
from
£8 to £25. *
OUR STOCK FOR leB4,
comprises
THE SPECIAL CLUB,
THE AUSTRALIAN CLUB,
THE UNIVERSAL CLUB
MACHINES,
All ridden by the best riders of
the day, and the
BEST MACHINES IN THE
TRADE.
Our Juvenile Tricycle,
FOR
Tricycles,
from
*4 to £2B.
We claim broadly, that our
TRICYCLES
are
THE BEST IN THE TRADE,
and shall be pleased to forward
Testimonials for the
CHEYLESMORE & IMPERIAL
CLUB TRICYCLES
to ii tending' purchasers.
that always gives satisfaction.
J3OT CALL AND INSPECT OUR NEW SHIPMENT FOR 1884.
Wm. Howard Smith & Sons
(LIMITED)
LINE of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 42 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYS, WED.
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Steamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS/
Steamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Brig,
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane to Bundaberg, Gladstone, and
Port Maekay, every fortnight.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 King Street, Sydney.
Academy of music
Lessee - W. H. Thompson.
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
THOMPSON’S COLOSSAL MIRROR OF THE
EGYPTIAN WAR.
LAVISH DISTRIBUTION OF NEW YEAR’S
GIFTS
will take place, at the discretion of the proprietor
without the slightest element of chance. ’
Lecturer, W. H. Thompson. Agent, H. Eastwood.
O p E
R
A
Lessee
Sub-lessee and Director
Business Manager
Treasurer
HOUSE,
W. J. Wilson.
Signor E. Majeroni,
Monty Browne.
Joe Brown.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 26.
ANNIVERSARY DAY.
OPENING NIGHT
of the
MAJERONTS
GRAND SOCIETY SEASON.
MAJEEONT’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
MAJERONI’S
Commencing: with
their
ELEGANT PLAY
in Four Acts
and Six Tableaux,
supported by their
Specially Selected
COMPANY
JEALOUSY
JEALOUSY
JEALOUSY
JEALOUSY
JEALOUSY
JEALOUSY
JEALOUSY
JEALOUSY
Box Plau now open at Huenerbein’s, 411, George-at,
AOSDS
Author and Actor.
‘ ONE OF THE MOST VERSATILE ACTORS
ON THE STAGE."
JTMMENSE SUCCESS IN MELBOURNE!
“ THE WANDERER,”
AND
“MYLES-NA-COPPALEEN.”
SONGS encored again and again.
TOUR POSTPONED,
In consequence of having accepted a “ SPECIAL
ENGAGEMENT” with Signor Majeroni. Thanks
to C. F. Coutts, Esq., Theatre Royal, Sandhurst,
for offer of £25 weekly. Letters, Telegrams, Arc.,
respecting future engagements, to be addressed
“ Bulletin Office, Sydney, N.S.W. Till called for."
HAMPION RACE, 1881.
LEVIATHAN” ADAMASTOR” COMPANY.
_ Capital £2->OO, in 50C0 shares of 10s. each.
100 Prizes—£l226 for Hones, and£l27s for Stars, &c.
Plan of Astronomical Distribution :
First Horse (winner of
Champion Race).. £5OO
Seeond Horse .. 250
Third Horse .. .125
Starters divide .. 150
Non-starters divide £2OO
First star .. 40u
Second do. .. 200
Third do ISO
Fourth do.
’ X'WUJUUIU, ... ... iW
eion'%r ta / s of HL cach ,’ £ln °: 13 stars of £lO each,
£120; 25 stars of £5 each, £125; 50 stars and towns
ot £4 each, £2OO.
“ Adamastor ” begs most respectfully to inform
his numerous patrons that he thanks them for the
liberal support that he has received, and herewith
submits a programme similar to that of last year’s
Champion Meeting. .< 11 parties are requested to
forward dratt, P.O. orders, or cheques; if cheques,
exchange must be added, and in all cases postage
fees; registered letters only received. Applies-
tion, by letter only, addressed “Adamastor,” care
A -P® r «' ra Hotel, Dean-street,
Albury, N.S.W. P .S. —Results sent, to every share-
holder. Sydney agency discontinued.
SECOND EDITION. PRICE, Is. Gd.
Maid, Wife, and Mother:
A BOOK FOR WOMANKIND.
CONTAINING matters of a medical nature
highly interesting to the sex. Post free, m 1
secure cover, for Is. Gd., money order or N.S.W. i
stamps. To be had only from the publisher,
MRS. BEARCROFT,
Box 740 G.P.0., Sydney, r
maaiars
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first bonouri
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCHWOOB
147 YORK STREET.
WANTED, a well educated YOUTH, ns An
prentice to Zinco engraving. Apply*
Bulletin Office.


6s. Gd. ?s. Gd. ss. Gd. per pair.
The Oriental Gold Company
(Only Australian place of business, 494 Uaorce-
street, opposite the Central Entrance to the
, ... Markets),
has solved the problem of the season, and pro-
AH-• GIFTS from 5s to £5 : P
Articles of dainty design and ©ndurinir beautv
which will give delight at the firet glance, and ’
._ T r,. Tm . _ vrill last a lifetime.
ORIENTAL GOLD is the very iatest discoverv
of the alchemist’s laboratory. There have been
good and useful imitations of sterling gold before
U aU have been thrown into the shade by
this triumph of modern science. Articles of
oriental Gold cannot, after years of wear, be dis-
-1 ro , rr ? t ? e costliest wares of the gold-
smith. So noble is this metal, that no tawdrv
tureli of it °Th« L lnferior designs are
turedof it. The discoverers have not condescended
mm? wunTT J-9 SEPIz it to base uses.
TH E VERY JEWELLERY
and, placed side by side, the one article cannot be
told from the other.
THE PRICE OF ARTICLES OF ORIENTAL
. GOLD ts but a trifle
when compared with identical models of sterling
c „ metal.
mAMnwT^a e *°?u Baremounted with the NEW
DIAMONDS, another masterpiece of the chemists
emS thi D^ t m nt i I Y, C^M tury “ artiticlaJ stones which
The Artist-designers’ of Paris have, with eager
appreciation, adopted Oriental Gold as worthv^to
gS^. O^S;C&L WM<!h '• -PlSeK'ltli
CALL AND OPPOSITE
or, if a resident of the country, write and ask »
lnend to do so. Visitors are always made welcome
and not pestered to buy, hecause we know that no
one has ever yet viewed our goods without being
astonished and delighted with their variety el o'
gance, and surpassing and novel beauty-and’such
i"sraß&sKr" amons
Here are a few lines for customers’ guidance
At ss. each.
A Neat Scarf Pin.
A Pretty Dress Rina.
A Set or Shirt Studs.
A Natty Brooch.
A PaR of Jewelled Ear-rlnas.
An Elegant Pencil Case.
At 7s. 6a. each.
Handsome Brilliant Rina-.
Beautiful Charm.
Elegant Locket.
Necklet, with Clasp.
Fashionable Hair-pin.
Pair of Cuff-pins.
At lOs. each.
Grand Albert.
Ladies’ Albert.
Brooch and Ear-rinira.
Ladies* Gem Bins - .
Lovely Bracelet.
Collarette.
At 15*. each.
Choice Locket and Necklet.
Exquisite Jewelled Bracelet.
Brooch, Sot with Brilliants.
Magnificent Jewelled Scarf-pin.
Solitaire Brilliant Collar StHd.
Superb French Ear-pendants.
Charming Parisian Bangles.
At £l each.
flies’ Suite—Necklet, Locket, and Brooch
Ladies’ Tasselled Slide Albert.
GeD pe e ndlSt jEsthetio Fob Chaln > with Steel
Exquisite Charms, of lovely and novel Desitrns
Ladles' Bar Brooches, beautifully Chased
At £2 2s. each.
Gentleman's Watch, Hunting, or Open Face,
with Crystal Glass, in Oriental Gold Cases,
h'khiy finished Works, with Oriental Gold
Albert Chain.
(Stem-winder—ss. extra.)
Lady s very handsome Hunting or Open Face
(with Crystal Glass) Watob, in Oriental
Gold Cases, full jewelled, and splendid
Timekeeper.
(With a most handsome Oriental Gold Albert
with slides and assels, 15s. additional.) '
At £3 each.
Gent’s Watch, Hunting, or Open Face, with
Crystal Glass, in sterling Silver Cases-a
reliable, sound watch, perfect Timekeeper,
specially rated, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
(Stem-winder-ss. extra.)
Lady’s Sterling Silver Watch, in Hunting (or
Open Face, with Crystal Glass) Cases,
beautifully Engraved, highly finished, full
jewelled works, perfect Timekeeper, with
sterling Silver or Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, with slides and tassels.
At £4 each.
Sterling Silver Chronograph, double dials, for
marking 5-10ths of a second, patent fly-
back hand, patent keyless works, 18 carat
Gold winder, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain.
English Patent Lever, Hunting (or open face,
with Crystal Glass), capped and full
jewelled, examined and rated, in sterling
Silver Cases.
(With Oriental gold chain—los. extra.)
Gent’s Silver Hunting Waltham Patent
Lever Watch, with Oriental Gold Albert
Chain, and beautiful Compass, or other
charm.
At £5.
A Combination Parcel, comprising any selec-
tion from the above which customers may
make, to value.
We want to do business with people throughout
Australasia and New Zealand, and will send
PARCELS BY POST, ON APPROVAL.
Specially Observe.— lf the articles do not
answer expectation on receipt, re-pack them at
once and send them back. If this is done within
two days, or, where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured, we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
article and return the rest, and wo will return the
money for the articles not kert Tvery watch
sold by us will be rated and act-a,panted by a
written warrantry for two years. Remittances to
be made payable to the Oriental Gold Company.
474 George-st., Sydney. op. Markets
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Theatre Royal—“ Christmas Pantomime .p. 8.
Opera House—“ Back from the Frave” ib.
Academy of Music—“ Zulu War” ib.
Chiarini’s Roy a) Italian Circus ib.
There was a strong smell of glue when
Sjo-nor Verdi paraded his Druids in front of a good
house to wrestle with the choruses of “Norma.”
But our attention was not wholly given to Wil-
liam’s clear voice and imposing figure. It was
mostly taken up with the vagaries of a Jewish
lady occupying one of the front seats. With ear-
rings as large as dumb-bells, and a smile like a
South Sea idol, she distributed praise and blame
with good-natured impartiality. There must have
been some difficulty in tilling up the ranKs of
Druids, and so a few had to be taken who were not
up to the regulation size. One demonstrative
little fellow in the middle seemed to regard Norma
and her goings on with peculiar vindictiveness.
We thought, at first, it was a boat-hook he had in
his girdle, but close inspection showed it to be a
dagger—a Damascus blade of exceptional purity
and finish. It was the sort of weapon to suggest
deeds of violence and bloodshed, and from the
nervous manner in which he fingered the hilt
when the discovery was made that Ncrma (like a
good many more we know) was not nearly so
simple as she looked, we felt, instinctively, that
in outrage was contemplated, and that the small
but determined-looking person in white would
effect his cruel purpose as soon as the curtain
went down and his brother Druids had scattered.
• t «
Miss Montague was a plump, pleasant
Norma, who attacked the music as if she liked it,
and was determined we should all participate in
her pleasure. We never heard her to greater ad-
vantage. The difference in artistic training be-
tween her and Adelgisa was very noticeable in
tiorid passages. And this reminds us that, when
she said “Adelgisa,” a serious-looking old chap
next us put on his hat and struck for the open air,
saying he didn’t believe in swearing.
• • •
“The Bohemian Girl” again on Saturday.
The cast was the same as in previous representa-
tions. We never knew before why the Austrians
are so unsuccessful in their wars. The French
nearly always thrash them, and the Germans
bolted them in one bite at Sadowa. It’s because
of their banners—that is, if the two-headed eagle
we saw on Saturday night is a fair representation
of the imperial bird. It would be quite impossible
for men to fight with enthusiasm under such a flag.
No matter, Charley still continues to draw big
houses, and there’s no change ahead in this res-
pect.
mm * *
The Majeronis are once more with us, and
open at the Opera House on Saturday, 26th, when
“Jealousy,” one of their most successful pieces, is
to be given. Theatre-goers who remember the
great Ristori do not need to be told the style of
article the Majeronis bring. Their repertoire is
replete with society plays of the best class.
“Fedora” (in which Sara Bernhardt took London
by storm), “Odette,” “ Friendship,” “ Camille,”
“ A Kiss,” “ Jealousy ’’—these are some of the in-
gredients in the bill of fare. It is with these that
the Sio-nor and his talented wife have won from
American and Continental critics sufficient praise
to last for a life-time. It was in Sydney they first
performed in English, and, after years of study,
our virile tongue comes now as trippingly from
their lips as if they had learnt it at their mothers’
apron-strings. Among the cognoscenti of Mel-
bourne there is but one opinion regarding the
Majeronis, and that is that their superiors have
not yet found their way to Australia. Coming
from a town that, like Sydney, has witnessed the
long line from Kean to Creswick, this is saying a
good deal. And, when we say further that in the
company are to be found the names of Glover,
Douglas, Musgrave, Rodney, Brooks, Novaro,
Docy Mainwaving, Maggie Ford, and a crowd of
others, we believe we have said just enough. Our
old friend Monty Browne has the business manage-
ment.
** * *
There is a sensible diminution in the Royal
audiences, so that the advent of the “ Silver King”
is hopefully looked for, both by management and
public. The words of the pantomime are stupid,
without being quite stupid enough. This seems
paradoxical, but is a fact all the same. When a
thing is exceptionally good, it usually pays; when
’tis d bad, it nearly always rakes in the greed.
Tt is only when it squats on the border-line of
mediocrity, and is neither very good nor -very
bad, that it turns out a pronounced frost. There
are, of course, exceptions, like Bees and Vogrich’s
concerts, and some others we could name, where
first-class articles seem to hang fire, and will not
“ gee,” but this is because people don’t understand
them, and don’t want to. There is no more me-
lancholy sight than that of a Western “ squatter,”
ora Sydney alderman at a classical concert. He
plants himself as near the performers as he can,
with a firm determination to enjoy it, just as a
larrikin saunters up to the triangles resolved not
10 bawl, but before the performance is half over,
in either case, all the good resolutions are as dead
as James Carey.
• • •
There are only two classes of writers who
should try their hands at pantomime—those who
have a thorough knowledge of the requirements
of rhyme and rhythm, or else those who are as
innocent of information on the subject as-as a
country railway porter of the soft answer that
turneth away wrath. In the one case the show
will draw, from its excellence, in the other from its
inspired idiotcy. In a city like Sydney there should
be no difficulty in picking up types of either class—
especially the latter. There is now before us on
our desk a pile of poetry en route to an empty
champagne crate outside, and it is not too much to
say that any of the gifted children of song who
sent it in could write a pantomime that would run
till Easter.
*• • •
At first we thought we had wandered into
a church bazaar got up by Dr. Hughes and Mr. C.
Bright for the conversion of Jews. But wnen the
gorgeous one appeared, and told, in touching
language, the story of the latest spoiling of the
Egyptians, while the band struck up “ The Girl I
left behind me,” we knew we were in the Aca-
demy of Music, that the “ dioramar” of our doings
on the Nile was passing before us to subdued
lights and appropriate music, that the portly
person so anxious to communicate facts concern-
ing the Spbynx and Tel-el-Kebir was Zulu Thomp-
son himself, and that the claret jugs, tea-trays,
rocking-chairs, decanters, and things were the
“gifts” intended for lucky ticket-holders, when
the cheers that greeted our success in North and
South Africa had subsided. Notices pasted about
the hall, vised by a party named M. Hegarty,
showed that the punishment for smoking was ex-
ceptionally severe. “ Anybody caught smoking
?r making a disturbance,” they ran, “will be
immediately expelled and handed over to the
police, and prosecuted next morning, and not
allowed admittance again during the season.” The
last thre'•t showed refined vindictiveness, alien to
t ° e spirit of the age, and to the precepts
ot Christianity. But we think it is seldom
enforced, for on the night we attended a
coloured person in front of us, who appeared to
nave indulged too freely in rum or “ hackshish,”
or some of the numerous excitements affected by
orientals, having made a few highly depreciatory
remarks on the truthfulness of the pictures—
nfbig especially cynical on the legs and “ get up ”
nr T? e , Highlanders swarming over the ramparts
0! fel-el-Kebir—was merely requested to retire
ana give a chance to those who were not so dis-
agreeably critical, as he saw him in a “pub.” a
snort time afterwards wrestling with a pot of
P e or, we felt that all the penalties would not be
inmcted, and that if he conducted himself properly
rno ,a^ ee ' 1 °r two, the exclusion “during the re-
mainder of the season ” might not be insisted on.
11 was the Sphynx that fascinated us. Tf she is
anything like her repi esentation, it is certain the
British will never leave Egypt without putting a
ton or two of dynamite under her. Until we
visited Mr. Thompson, we were ignorant of why
the Duke of Connaught got a command in India
and a decoration for Egypt. It appears that he
superintended the removal of some railway
trucks when the station at Cairo was blown up.
Taking the situation in at a glance, it struck him
that by raising the brakes the waggons would
make their own way down an incline. A masterly
flank movement set them free, and the young
warrior had the satisfaction of saving them from
the flames and seeing them smashed up against a
neighbouring stone wall. If this does not lit the
young man for an independent command, we
should like to know what would.
** * *
And now Zulu Thompson’s off to Mauritius,
and is to be succeeded by the legitimate drama,
Ibe exponents of which are to be Professor
Miller, Laurence Foley, Esq., and M. Victor. We
consider this entertainment to be more alluring,
even, than horse opera, We trust, however, that
the exponents of the glove and tussle business will
appear in “ chaste and appropriate attire.” There
is to he boxing, there is to be Grseco-l'toman
wrestling, there ai’e to be Florentine statues, illu-
mined by lime-light [and accompanied on the piano
(“kindly lent for this occasion,” &c.) by an odd
musical fish who has reduced his scales to per-
fection, and the proceedings will be initiated by
an oration delivered by Laurence himself.
SIGNORA MAJERONI.
SIGNOR MAJERONI.
And now let us say good-bye to Zulu—
To William Thompson, Esq., K.C. ( Knight of
the Cruet), on his departure for the
Mauritius.
Off to Mauritius—fare thee well,
But dost thou not with terror blench ?
For us the grisly tile to tell—
You’ll have to lecture, Bill, in French!
You’ll, WiTiam, have to parley-vous.
And, when you show up in the bush,
You’ll have to sacre nom de dieu /
And mounseer and mad arm the “ push.”
We fancy, Bill, we hear you do it —
“ Pour kelker person is ce cruet ?”
You'll have to wax-end your moustache;
Of Paree, say “ C’est magniflque
You’ll have, and this is rather harsh,
To con your “ Ahn’s First ” all the week!
When back again your flight you wing,
You might . . we love those dark-eyed lassies;
But, if you can’t, why, hang it, bring
At least some rum, Bill, and molasses!
And mind, dear Dioramic elf,
You’ll be quite sure to bring yourself.
** * *
We have never grudged it you, nor do we
now. Let everybody, then, who loves the per-
fesh, —and who does not?—flap their eyebrows in
the direction of this classic page, and read. This
reminds us that there used to be a “ Run and
Read ” series of books, which is now defunct. We
fancy the Rum must have bought the copyright
title and reversed it. Rather too long doing it.
are we not ? With the nice little novels, you used
to Run and Read ; but, so far as the Rum’s con-
cerned, you Read and Run. Possibly some dis-
paragingly editorial remark will follow this splen-
did specimen of humour. But we are inured to
insult. [Very laboured.—Ed. B.] Well, then,
Glover, who, it will be remembered, was with the
Greatest Actor in the World, and who played the
drunkard (Baretrong) artistically in “ The Woman
of the People,” has taken Steele’s place in the
Majeroni company. Jack’s duties, he having re-
cently been elected G.W.C.T., of Dubbo, necessitat-
ing his constant attention. Little Joe Brown is
still Majeroni’s secretary, and Monty Brown is
playing his usual role before the opening of his
show-following up the bill-posters with a brick.
Curiously enough, both Monty and Joe Brown are
ex-pressmen. But they have both caught the
footlights fever, and have got it badly. The
Majersni’s come on after George is, for the last
time, “ Back from the Grave.”
** * *
Josh Pickersgill has favoured us with a
tremendously long communication from Dunedin ;
but “Pick.” writes such a shocking bad hand that,
after a tough wrestle with his pot-hooks, we must
acknowledge ourselves partially defeated. It seems,
however, that his show (amongst other things)
encountered, during his N.Z. tour, sixty-three wet
nights out of sixty-seven. The horizon has
brightened, however, for—but let the gentle eomp.
unravel it “ The great Donald Dinnie, the
Scottish champion athlete, America, &c., has
signed to me, and he makes his bow under my
auspices to Victoria, N.S. Wales, Queensland,
Tasmania, Western Australia, and South Aus-
tralia, &c„ and lam proud of my big contract. I
feel sure I shall make money, because, you know,
when at wrestling, &c., I put him and Miller, and
Victor and Foley, &c., together, l guess they will see
something to knock ’em silly.” We heard a man say
Josh was a bit of a visionary once, but weinstantlv
denied it. Whatever Pick is, and he is a host of
nice things, he is not that 1 Hem I
** * *
We read, largely, the efforts of the London
dramatical crickets, and we try very hard to ad-
mire them. Clement Scott is picturesque in the
Theatre and forcible in the Daily Telegraph;
‘ Carados,” said, in spite of all (though even George
Darrell, who knows almost everything but how to
fix a cistern, can’t say), to be Henry Simpson (“ Pen-
dragon,” formerly editor of Fun), is lightly satiri-
cal; Richard Dee, of the Morning Advertiser,
is dull and laboured, but scholarly withal; Mow-
bray Morris, of the Pall Mall Gazette, who is
ponderously sarcastic; and G. A. Sala, of the Illus-
trated London News, a specimen of whose style
we will give you. Writing of Robert Buchanan’s
The Sailor and his Lass” (we’ll leave Mr. Augus-
tus Harris out of it, this time, for a change!), he
ends his critique thus (and it must be remembered
that Mr. Sala’s notices are supposed to be in the
highest style of modern critical art): “I am think-
ing of giving up hansoms and taking to ‘ growlers,’
all on account of that pearl and paragon of four-
wheel cabbies so splendidly played by Mr. Henry
Jackson.” If we wrote like that, we should hear
from our editor—or, rather, we should hear from
our editor’s hoot.


PEPPER AND SALT.
Seventy constables rolled up to the Mel
bourne Artillery Barracks, on the 10th, to be ex-
amined with a view to promotion. Tho examin-
ation was conducted by Messrs. Brodribb, Mont-
fort and Moore, and the day was devoted solely to
the subject of Reading. It was a touching sight
to see constable 80,300 lay aside his white helmet in
the ante-room, and wipe the sweat from his
classic brow as he heard himself called to go
through the painful ordeal. Passers by thought
an epidemic of influenza had assailed the barracks,
so constant was the coughing, so stertorous the
breathing. It was only the constables clearing
their throats. Constable 80,000,000 laid himself
out on a form and fainted twice. It was noticed
by the examiners that he looked a little dazed, as
they pointed to the big sheet hanging against the
wall and asked him to go on. We never hoard a
constable read, so the account we got of his per-
formance interested us. The sentences were a
paraphrase of a Miltonic passage, beginning
“ Adam, for eating fruit, was,” &c., and the candi-
date, if he shaped well at the first couple of words,
was pulled up with “That will do, sir, that will
do; now for the intelligence. What is meant, &c.”
Board to Constable 80,003,003, while he was a
little dazed“ Look there! What’s that ?”
C.: “ A case of insulting behaviour, yer war-
ships.”
B. “ No, no, we’re not war-ships. Shake your-
self up and read what’s on that board.”
C. standing very close to the board and labori-
ously scanning the lines: “ A damn for eating
fruit ”
“lb: “That’ll do, that’ll do; we see you can read.
Now for the intelligence. What meaning do you
take out of the sentence ?”
C.: “With all respect, sorrs, I think it’s idle and
profane languidge. But, if it has any meaning, it
must be that a respectable man won’t do it. Whin
the fruit’s green, sorrs, it makes ye sliddor; and
The Larrikin, and How we Train Him.
When he is curable, we tine a Schoolmaster for correcting him. When he is incurable, we pay a man to flog him.
oven when it’s ripe, too much of it isn’t good,
sorrs.”
B. : “ But what did the author mean to say ?”
C. “A damn, sorrs, for fruit.”
B. “ But what did ho mean to convey ?”
C. “ I don’t like to commit meself, sorrs, but I
think he meant whin a man feels dry, that instead
of fruit a little something sharp would do better.”
B.: “ Very, good. You pass.”
It is quite true that the seventy passed. This is
not a very brilliant anecdote, but if the reader
only knew the sort of whisky sold in Melbourne
during the past couple of mouths he’d he as
tonished to find an Intellect capable of doing
even this much.
* * *
SOLD.
(Dedicated to the Peerage Admiration
Society.)
No paltry belted Earl, ’twas thought, was sailing
o’er the sea,
When once more from its oilskin sheath flashed
R.B.’s p arapluie;
And light was Dan O’Connor’s heart as any fairy
cork— >
His dreams were but of coronets—he scorned alj
thoughts of pork!
Hard were the hands of old J.H., he meant to step
aboard,
And by the thunder ol' his palms urge all there to
applaud I
And with his shoes, to gain the young lord’s notice
ho would try;
For though he’s bunions on his feet, he’s frenzy in
his eye!
The Council swore this time, despite all symptoms
of distress,
They’d read the Marquis, when he came, a welcom-
ing address;
The motion it was seconded and carried, too, we
ween—
Oh, melting, on the Marquis, w*as the eloquence of
Green l
The dovecote Ministerial was in a flutter, too,
They talked about the Vernon and about the
Mountains Blue;
The “ pitch,” too, was of picnics upon the verdant
sward,
Of Baumann’s fairy catering to load up that young
lord.
In sweet anticipation—that is to say the least!—
A holy smile upon his face had each expectant
priest!
Oh, they had waited long for this, but it came not
too late, \
Then dusted was each small red bag and burnished
was each plate.
The dream is faded; dried up quite’s the eloquence
of G reen;
And once more “on the Island,” deep In pork, our
Dan is seen I
The gamp of little Bob is once more shielded from
all harm,
And clenched with disappointment dire is ev’ry
priestly palm!
But don’t despair! percliancd some noble cub will
come out soon,
And tho’ ’tis dark as midnight now, then ’twill he
light as noon;
Cheer up; forget the bitter taste of this small dose
of gall,
’Twill not be long ere you will have another chance
—to crawl.
* * *
It is stated that the Newcastle people were
“grievously disappointed” at the non-arrival of
Murdoch and Alex. Bannerman. It don’t take
much to grievously disappoint the miners. What
we can’t conceive, is the ecstatic bliss which would
be our lot if we could see a representative team
arrive without the great eaptain and the “little
stonewaller.” But, then, novelty has a charm for
us— especially in the hash line. The cricket fever
has now fairly set io, and now we must expect a
fresh seven months of how Murdoch was “ well
set;” of how Bonner “lifted it clean over the
fence ;” of how Midwinter “snicked it to the off ;”
of how Palmer was “ well on the wicket;” and of
how Giffen “ hit one to the chains for a quartette.’ ’
They have all their little vocabularies, these
wonderful writers, be they police-court, dramatic,
or sporting, and yet warm up the cockles of their
hearts with something long, and not very dear,
there is not one of their number who will not
talk about the “guild of letters” and “thebrother-
hood of art,” accompanied bv much frenzied
gesticulation—an unwise excitement of manner
which only too often necessitates, prior to depar-
ture, the loan of a needle and thread from the
barmaid.
• • •
THE GREAT BRISBANE BATTLE.
Spencer Browne, of Brisbane town,
Hit Keith upon the nob,
Spencer Browne, of Brisbane town,
Was fined in forty boh.
“ A pity, ’tis,” now Spencer thinks,
“ For forty bob is eight drinks I”
“A pity,” Keith, too, says, says he,
“ That forty bob don’t come to me!”
So each brow wears a furrowed frown,
As each one promenades the town.
But in some eyes, believe it you,
That Spencer is a hero true;
And Keith, when goaded, loud declares,
“ He came upon me unawares!”
But there’s some joy; for each man glints,
Throughout the land, in all the prints;
But for this battle, all must own,
Each pigmy would be si ill unknown!
If lasting fame, though, both would seek,
They must get up a fight each week ;
And in the records of each match
Note down each splutter and each scratch;
And write out elongated pars.
Describing all the kicks and sears,
With headlines, or ’twould he a fault:
“Another Cowardly Assault;”
And some in type the largest sized,
Called “Insolence Once More Chastised.”
Do this—get telegraphed and read—
Or once more to the world you're dead.
By way of building up a little journalistic
par., we may mention that the Normauton
Herald is, according to the gospel of Bobby
Byrne, defunct; and we hear, that the House of
Peers is about to start a magazine, to be called The
Lords— contributions only to emanate from their
own body. This wouldn't he a bad hint for our
Upper House. A publication by our peers would
be exceedingly attractive. It might contain,
amongst other things, say, a paper on “ The Ab-
stract Principles of Disinterestedness and Self-
denial,” by the Hon. John Lusas ; one on “ Dese-
cration,” by the Hon. W. R. Piddington ; a sonnet
on “Spirits,” by S. H. Terry; and so on. Had
not Sir John Robertson descended to the Lower
House he might have enhanced the attractions of
the magazine.by an article on “ The Language of—
Flowers,” or a lively sketch called, “ There and
Back for Sixpence.” With the venture printed in
antique typo, arid having a nicely engraved fossil
in the corner, we are sure there are iu this colony
a considerable number of people who would
cheerfully owe for it.
ft ft •
For a good old blood-curdling, hair-
lifting, marrow-freezing, delirium tremens breed-
ing tale, commend us to the Be. a Gazette's
leader on the Waterloo horror. To enjoy this
shriek properly, one would require to hear it
recited in the Wollongong cemetery during a
howling tempest at midnight by Herr Bandmann,
or some other “grade tra-a-a-gedian,” end with a
suitable accompaniment of blue fire and Der
Freiscliutz music. Try and imagine the scene as
you read. (Tremolo on the violins, blue-fire, and a
wail from a distant fog-horn.) Tragedian advances
on his toes, and hisses :-“’Twas Christmas night at
Waterloo. Last time it was at Woolloomooloo.”
This is rather unsatisfactory; because if Christmas
night goes dodgiog around like that, no one can
tell whether the next festival will he held in
Jembaicumbene or Jupiter. Ho reads again:
“Thescene is the Mount of Carmel, and tbe actors
in the horrid tragedy are a crowd of larrikins, and
Catherine Owen, a vagrant aged 50, carrying a
shilling’s worth of rum in a bottle,” Ea paren-
thesis, this is a cruel libel on the ginger-beer bottle,
because it was fatally injured and it’s contents
spilled before the tragedy began. Proceed: “It is
an hour after midnight, and the night is dark;
except Mrs. Arnold and Mrs. Logan, both respect-
able married women, there appears to have been
no one to interfere with all the unknown devilry
that turned Catherine Owen into a torn, naked,
bleeding corpse.” (Full orchestra fortissimo-
more fire, and sixteen boys shake a lot of blue
metal up in kerosene tins. Shrieks from all the
surrounding graves). Just to prevent any doubt
as to Mrs. Logan’s respectability, it is necessary to
remember that at the trial this lady admitted it
was not her first appearance in a Court, but she
declined to say whether she had been convicted
fourteen times under the Vagrant and similar
other Acts. But, hush ! He speaks again, and
yells: “Where was the Elijah to call down fire
upon these worse than human savages, with their
* brutal shouts of merriment and their ruffianly
language?’” If the Elijah was a clergyman, he
was probably rolling about on his ciowny bed with
a bad attack of the fantods, brought on by an
overdose of Chateau Lafitte and lobster salad;
but if Elijah belongs to tbe “foorce,” he was no
doubt either doing a gateway snooze or surround-
ing the salt junk, pickles, and tangle kindly pro-
vided by his own Susan Jane in her cozy kitchen.
And so tho Bega Scream keeps on, until it winds
up with a telling appeal for a testimonial to
“ bravo Mrs. Logan, who, no longerable to restrain
her anxiety, ran up to the fiends, spoke to them
out of the midnight datkness, and caused them to
decamp like so many dingoes alter a gorge!” For
poetical beauty and truthfulness to the' subject,
we venture to think that dingo simile has never
been equalled, and now we’ll adjourn while the
Bega bard refreshes his soul with the heel of a
saveloy and a shilling’s worth of rum in a ginger-
beer bottle.
• • •
We see that a man in Melbourne has been
knocked down and robbed of £3l, and that his
assailants were identified by two young ladies as
“Squash” and “The Whopper.” One of them
has been caught; though, so far.Vwc are in a pleas-
ing condition, of uncertainty as to whether the
person in custody is “Squash” or “The Whop-
per.” This poetic little introduction reminds us
that this ago is more than ever the age of slang.
Newspapers, we notice (though we have remon.
strafed with them), indulge largely in slang.
Chiefly small newspapers. The Illustrated
London News, for instance. George Augustus
Sala, who, by the way, builds up, sometimes, some
sad drivel, in stating that Punch had been
attacked by the Saturday Review for some allu-
sion .to Rabelais, says that journal gives Mr.
Burnand’s paper “ toko for yam.” We have occa-
sion, sometimes, in order, chiefly to render our-
selves intelligible to the clergy, to use a bizarre
phrase or two—chiefly of our own invention—
when a glance, on the following week, over the
country papers reveals the fact that all the Sydney
correspondents have reproduced them—nearly ip
every case where they didn’t apply—besides stud-
ding their copy with a very painful amount of
Punch’s corner English. Well, times, we sup-
pose, are changing; and we shouldn't be surprised
that if, in a year or two, papers were written in
nothing else but slang—and rum were a half-
penny a quart. How would a cablegram like thi*
look, now, in the Herald ?
Wood-chopping Billy.
Gladstone hasn’t shown up for a bloom-
month, and they say, down the street, that
the old boy’s gone off his kadoovah.
Or this ¥
Guilty.
Smith, convicted of British grab, has cop-
ped a sixer.
Onee more:—
The Queen.
The Royal Shoe-trunk has been shifted fo
Balmoral. Also Leo., in sections.
On second thoughts we consider this an improve-
ment, if anything, on the present style.
* * *
He is a back-block squatter when at home,
bu\ being anxious to see how the Victorian capital
looked at Christmas, he trotted down and wont on
ahowlingtear immediately. Then the “shakes”
came on. and for a. few days he was all but away
on the Golden Shoah. During his Illness he told
his father confessor that, if the Loard spared him
this trip, he’d give £5OO to the Pope and £5O a year
to the convent, and when he reached home he'd
build a spiendid church next his own house, and
pay the clergyman's salary out of his own pocket.
Thanks to physic and prayer, he recovered; but
the only occasion on which the “clargy” heard
from him since was on last Thursday, when he
impounded the priest’s horse for breaking into his
lucerne paddock. Next time he gets “snakes in
his boots,” he’ll go down for certain.
• • •
We've got a lot of interesting items about
H.R.H. the Duke and Duchess of Connaught
chielly concerning the voyage of that gallant
warrior in the Cathay from Brindisi to Port Said.
The World has, concerning the perilous adven-
tures of the Duke, more even than the usual
amount of “slobber.” To take the lady first,
She was omployed (among other things), remarks
this noble journal, in “promenading a quaking
(sic) quarter-deck, checkmating Colonel Keith
Fraser, with the chess-board placed on a gipsy*
table borrowed from the genial Captain Robbie’s
deck-house [a gipsy-table on a ‘quaking deck,
booh!]; joining with the Duke and Lord and Lady
Dowue in the evening whist-party in the saloon
. . . or mounting the lofty (!) bridge, and scan-
ning the entrance of the Canal by the aid of ®
chart—[scanning ‘by the aid of a chart r"
her Royal Highness has amply vindicated
her claim as the adopted daughter of
a maritime empire.” What the latter phrase
means is best known to the writer; bnt as we sup-
pose he penned the letter In intervals of humpmff
about deck chairs and cleaning the plate, we must
not be hard on him. The Duke, we are told, was
“icrupulously deferential to those about him,
and “while the brilliant sky-blue pyjamas, «*
which the Duke tallies forth to his morning batn,
are necessarily the envy and secret torment of the
Bombay ai d Calcutta ma-hers, not one of them
was heard to make disparaging remarks about tn®
cut of those brilliantgarments.” Aneni this, w®
will content ourselves with quoting Belinda 3i®|
herne, and exclaiming—“Go!— butlerl ltiflsigne®
‘ B.’ ” Fact..


He was a Judge of a neighbouring colony,
and being a married man he dearly loved the
ladies—single or double, dfdn’t matter a point of
law to His Honor. He took them as they came,
and was always rubicund and jolly, husbands with
clubs and thick boots notwithstanding. At a gold-
fields town he once fell in love with a beautiful
barmaid, and after presenting her with a gold
watch, a diamond necklace, and a paper collarette,
he persuaded her to promise him admittance, at
midnight, into her chamber, where alone in that
building he said a good view of the comet could
be obtained. The young lady, in the innocence of
her heart, explained the situation to the Boss of
the hotel, and the Boss took Jupiter, the black
cook, into his confidence. And at midnight’s
awful hour every bed-room door of that populous
caravansary was partly open, and the occupants
in darkness and expectation silently awaiting the
Taylor’s Little Lark—Making their Seats Uneasy.
catastrophe. And it came. First a hurried shuffle
of something white and ghostly ran along the
passage from one bed-room door to another, then
a whisper of endearment in a low judicial tone,
followed quickly by a wild, unearthly yell of
demoniac laughter, as a light was struck in the
room, revealing to the horrified intruder, not the
pretty barmaid, but the devil in person, black as
midnight, with great saucer eyes and glaring
white teeth grinning horribly at him—horns, tail,
hoofs, all complete and terrible to behold.
Then came a shriek of wild despair from
the Judge, as he rushed from the room in scanty
attire, and lied desperately dotvn the long
passage, ' pursued by that yelling fiend with
a lighted torch, revealing to the astonished
spectators the prodigious stretch of His Honor’s
nether limbs, when thus seen to the best advan-
tage in full and uninterrupted play. Then a roar
of laughter went up from that hotel clear to the
Milky Way. Every bedroom door, except two,
sent forth a peal of applause, which shook the old
house from cellar to roof-tree, and scattered the
shingles over the town like leaves in Vallambrosa.
When His Honor heard the shouts of merriment
he took in the situation at a gulp, went down
stairs in two strides, and clothed himself with a
table cover and confusion in the pantry, till the
noise had subsided, and the lights were mercifully
extinguished. Then be slunk back to his bedroom
and dreamed that he was sentenced, by the black
cook to fifty years’ penal servitude.
■ • •
The old way of putting it is the best, and
so, with just a formal apology, we trot out our
familiar friend, the assurance that truth is
stranger than fiction. At least it is to most of us.
Mr. John Rogers, of Warrnambool was, until
recently, the proud possessor of an only cow, and
thereby hangs a tail. A few days ago he lost a
valuable watch and chain, and all efforts to re-
cover the same proved fruitless. Shortly after
this, however, Mr. Rogers’ son, whilst milking the
aforesaid cow, was surprised to hear the watch
ticking inside of her. Mr. Rogers then remembered
that the day he lost his watch he had been cutting
some greenstuff, and in all probability the watch
fell amongst the feed and was subsequently
swallowed by the animal. One would think Mr.
Rogers would have been satisded to let matters
remain as they were, as he knew where his watch
was. But he w s apparently afraid that the cow
would pawn the property, or lend it to a neigh-
bour’s bull to wear on Sunday. A sixpenny watch
key was still missing, and, in order to recover
this, the cow was explored and the lost key dis-
covered. But the cow died under the operation,
which was performed by a coloured butcher and a
Yankee axe. What Rogers should have done was
to hang that cow on a nail over his pillow, and
then, by taking a small llask to bed with him over
night, he could not only have a stiff glass of rum
and milk before he arose every morning, but he
could also arrange with the cow who held the
watch to call him at the exact moment he re-
quired it.
• • •
Snake stories, as a rule, are so outrageously
incredibl® as not to demand a second thought from
the reader: but we think the following authen-
ticated story of ophidian intelligence well worthy
of note:—Just below the Wee Waa lives a shep-
herd, old Bill Johnson, who had amused his many
hours of solitary leisure in taming a young carpet-
snake which he had one day captured, and which
he had taught various tricks—to dancs to the music
of a concertina, stand on its head and crack its tail
in imitation of a stockwhip, etc. etc. “ Ben,” as ho
called the creature, was an indefatigable mouser
and birdcatcher, and would always bring the result
of his sport to share with his master, whom he in-
variably followed out and home again with the
sheep. In course of time “ Ben" grew to be some-
thing like 12 ft. in length, full of fun and life iD the
summer, and in winter retiring into the recesses of
a box filled with old blankets, etc. The old shep-
herd was extremely fond of his curious pet, of
whom he was wont to remark with pardonable
pride that he was “ knowiDger than many a Chris-
tian white.” At last, one evening as Bill descended
the steep river bank for the usual bucket of water,
his foot slipped, and in he wont right into a deep
hole, where, being unable to swim, he did the next
best thing in the intervals of drowning, which was
to cry lustily for assistance. “ Ben,” hearing the
row and coming quickly to the top of the bank,
took in the situation at a glance, and hissing furi-
ously in his excitement, hastened as quickly as
possible to the edge of the water where fortunately
grew a small sapling; round this “Ben” in a
second had coiled his head part and thrown the
rest of his body out to wh.re his friend and bene-
factor, now nearly exhausted, was still feebly
struggling. As luck would have it, the tail just
fell across the old man’s face, and, eagerly grasp-
ing this novel life-preserver, Bill hauled himself
safely ashore. The overseer of the station coming
up a few minutes later, was surprised to see the
old man on his knees, still dripping wet, anxiously
feeling along his favourite's vertebrae, whilst
rubbing in a copious supply of “ Farmers’ Friend,’
for, as he explained, “The strain must ha’ bin
somethin’ orful; and when I heerd poor old Ben
crack again, I thought sure he’d a let go, but no
fear, eh, old man ?”
Yes, children do give odd answers occa-
sionally, and unpleasant ones, too. Wo have all
heard of the Yankee lad who, being asked by his
teacher, “ What’s the difference between me and
George Washington?” bawled out, “ Please, sir, he
never told a lie.” At Paddington Public School,
the other d ty, a clergyman tried all ho knew to
elicit the word “parsimonious” from a class.
“Now,” said he, “what would you call a person
who grabs all he can get and .'gives nothing in
return?” “ Pa—par-pars—p—” he prompted,
as the class seemed to hang fire. “ Parson,”
yelled a little chap who had been vainly
endeavouring to attract the good man's atten-
tion, and was apprehensive lest such a chance
of showing thej result of his youthful observa-
tion might not again occur. The lad has not dis-
covered yet why he was walloped. , ,


The beauties of the new Licensing Act
are resorted to even by : the gentle “ Robert.
Surry Hills boasts a “ pub” bossed by a semi-
dashing “ widdy,” who provides for Robert's com-
fort during the small hours. Long after the fatal
chime of 11 p.m. has gone, a'bottle containing the
*‘ ile” is put at the back of the yaru door, which
has a nice square aperture in the bottom, sufficient
to admit the honest hand “av the foorce that
never clutched a watch and chain, and at early
djwn the “foorce” sneaks round, carefully scans
the neighbourhood, drops on his knees, seizes the
“ pisen," and vamooses to a convenient right-a-
way for consumption. However, the other night,
or morning rather, ho was disappointed. A wag
who had been watching his movements for some
time, substituted a bottle of “ soap suds” for the
“ widdy’B” nocturnal gift, and the peeler from his
long undisturbed confidence gulped down as usual.
A moment afterwards the [surrounding streets
were awakened with the fierce vomiting of
“ Robert,” who threw up everything but his small
“ twenty-sevens. ” He now prowls round,
threatening the neighbours “av” they spake
above a whisper after sunset he'll prosecute them
for “ righteous” behaviour. Cats, dogs, goats, and
small boys have very rough times of it now in that
place, particularly watch dogs.
* * *
This paragraph will, we trust, be read with
rapture at the Sydney University. It concerns D.
B. W. Sladen, the poet of that sanctuary of classic
culture. Mr. Sladen was up on the Blue Moun-
tains, lately, and the admiring elements got up a
thunderstorm to welcome him. The grateful bard
wrote a sonnet on this, and got it printed in the
Town an n Country. It begins:—
“ O, reader, was it ever thine to see
A battle of the storm and hurricane.”
It was ours. And if the gifted Sladen had been
out in some of the thunderstorms we have seen,
the search party that would be sent after him
SKETCH MAPS OF EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN.
would have to cut him out of a hollow log, like a
“goanna.” This is not poetry, hut it is fact. Rut
wo dare say that even tinder such conditions he
would compose sonnets. Nothing can discourage
some men. » » *
There is war in Samoa—or rather there
ujfl* war in Samoa, for it is now over. It arose in
a dispute between two chiefs about the succession
to the Kingship of an oyster-reef. Fifteen men
were killed before the matter was settled. This
reminds us that one day we invaded Shark Island
with a view of dispossessing Laycock of the
throne. We admit, with shame, that we were put
to ignominious flight by a brigade of quarantined
pigs led by a billy-goat. Our commissariat, con-
sisting of a ginger-beer bottle filled with rum and
four German sausages, fell into the hands of the
enemy. This was not from any lack of bravery
on our part. It was merely the fortune of war.
But we shall sit on the throne of that island yet.
• • •
This is good news for the dead. The
Devonshire-street cemetery is shortly to be re-
sumed for railway purposes. A good many skulls
that have been boarding-houses for worms will
then, we suppose, revisit the glimpses of the
moon again. It will be all the resurrection some
of those buried there tv ill ever get.
For more than a year and a half my face
was covered with pimples and blotches. Four
bottles of Bristol's Sarsaparilla, and three of
Pills, have entirely cured me. David barh,
Sandhurst, Victoria.
John T. Mclnnes and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, 26 O’Connell-
STREET, opposite SYDNEY MORNING HERALD
Office. Agents for the purchase of Pastoral
Plant, Squatting Supplies, Harvesting Machinery,
Agricultural Implements, &e. No c unmission
charged for buying. Agents for the sale or pur-
chase on commission of Pure-bred Stock.*
The accompanying sketch map of the
regions affected by the Mahommedan rising in the
Soudan will enable our readers to comprehend the
events which have occurred, and which may
follow. El Obeid is the place where El Mahdi
annihilated the army of Hicks Pasha. Khartoora
is the last hold of the Auglo-Egyptians in tha t
region. Should it fall, there is said to be no
strategical position where a stand could with fair
prospect of success be made for the protection of
Egypt, between Khartoom and Cairo, till Ekhmim
is reached, a place but a day’s march from Cairo,
the capital The present design is to land rein-
forcements at the port of Souakim, and so threaten
the flank and rear of the Mahdi’s army should he
advance towards Cairo. Massoweh is the port
which it was proposed to give to the King of
Abyssinia as a reward should he eonsent to create
a diversion by attacking the Mahdi in the rear.
Scotchmen.—We all know that Garibaldi
was a Scotchman. Mr. Fergusson, of Parramatta,
a great authority, has told us that the British
Solomon (the author of the Counterblast of To-
bacco) was a Scotchman, and now we are informed
that the constructor of the Suez Canal was a
Scotchman, too. There is no end to these Scotch-
men. It is well known to the erudite that Jamie
M’Blackie, the progenitor of the aboriginal Aus-
tralian race, was a Scotchman, who, with all his
clan, emigrated from Ben Lomond, just before the
last glacial period, in a steamship built on the
Clyde by Sandy M‘Adam ; and the discoverer of
Auourn, the loveliest village of the plain, Oliver
Goldsmith, was also, we believe, a Scotchman.
He accompanied Captain Co< k to Australia, and
spent a very pleasant time at the village hotel so
eloquently described in his poem. Auburn is
entering into a new state of existence, it is becom-
a manufacturing town, the railway to the interior
passes through it, and two large engineering es-
tablishments are commencing work close to the
station. Mil's and Pile will hold a sale of allotments
< n the ground, on Saturday afternoon, the 2nd
February, on very easy terms, and the enterpris-
ing auctioneers have engaged a special train for
the occasion.*
Mr. M. H. Hayter, Victorian Government
Statistician.
This gentleman, whose portrait wo give in our
front page, has earned distinction in a field very
little cultivated in these colonies. Mr. Hayter s
name is known, not only throughout these colo-
nies, but far beyond them. His function is to
take up the figures relating to his colony where
the Regißtrar-Ueneral leaves off, and to extract
from their dry arithmetic conclusions of general
aud appreciable interest. This Mr. Hayter has
done. He presents the strange phenomenon of a
Government servant who revels in his work.
Signor and Signora Majeroni.
The excellent artists whose portraits we give In
page 9 are not unknown to Sydney audiences,
although it is now several years since they per-
formed here. Signor Majeroni came to this colony
with the famous Ristori, of whose company he
was a leading member. The Signor remained
when Ristori departed, and, with his talented wife,
addressed himself to mastering the English lan-
guage. It was a brave undertaking, and bravely
sustained. Before long, both hid sufficiently
familiarized their vocal organs with our rugged
tongue to be able to perform in one or two pieces.
Of these, we remember “The Old Sergeant,” was
one, and in this Signor and Signora Majeroni
started on a starring tour through the colonies,
winning everywhere, despite the still inevitable
imperfections of their accent and pronunciation,
and by sheer force of their dramatic genius, the
highest encomiums. Fortune seemed ready to
fling her favours in their lap. Overflowing
audiences everywhere greeted them, when the
fickle jade suddenly played one of her cruellest
tricks.' Signor Majeroni's voice gave way, and for
years it was hopelessly lost to him for histrionic
purposes. The star actor and true dramatic
genius—for such we believe him to be—
had to be content to be manager for other actors,
some of them not worthy, in a dramatic sense, to
i loose the latchet of his shoe. Patience at length
was rewarded. The Signor’s vocal organs gradu-
ally recovered their elasticity and force. He had
meanwhile persistently familiarised himself with
English, and his equally talented wife rejoining
him—she had found it necessary to accept engage-
ments in America, for even genius must work to
live—the pair resumed the boards together. Their
| second debut was made, the other day, in Mel-
I bourne, and it was immediately perceived that
they had lost none of their pristine Are and inspi-
ration. On Saturday they open at the Opera
House, in “Jealousy,” and we can, with well-
founded confidence, promise the public a genuine
and artistic treat.
The Waverley Pale Ale.
Biz.
A good number of people will remember the
cheering 1 predictions of success with which, almost
ten years ago, a start wsis made with the celebrated
Waverley Brewery, by Messrs. Burrows and
Gleeson. The effort of the proprietors was to
adopt all the latest scientific improvements, and
to turn to advantage the splendid natural advan-
tages which the site at Waverley gave them. It is
a well-known tact among brewers that there can
be only one basis for good, pure ale—and that
basis isgood, pure water. The present site of the
Waverley Brewery was fixed upon as preeminently
giving this great advantage. The source of water
supply here is a pure crystal brook, which has
splendid natural filtration in the sand and sand-
stone rock through which from hundreds of feet
below it arises. This water is received and stored
in a gigantic reservoir, cut in the solid rock, where
tbo temperature is seldom or ever above
degrees. All the latest appliances are to be found
iu the brewery' for the various processes of brew-
ing: and then comes another great natural advan-
tage which the proprietors have been sharp enough
to avail themselves of. The property of the brew-
ery comprises several acres, which preclude the
possibility of building out, bad drainage, &c., and
it is so situated as to command on the one side the
pure breezes from the ocean East and South,
while from the North, away across from Middle
Harbour, it receives the cool zephy'rs from that
quarter of our coast. Taking advantage of _ this,
the firm, in addition to having the ordinary
refrigerators, have an expansive shallow cooling
floor, where the beer, after passing from the
boilers, is cooled by natural process. The sides of
this department are lowered to admit the breeze,
and the cooling proceeds iu the simplest and most
gradual manner. The effect of these processes and
improvements may be tested by calling for a glass
or tanbard of Waverley ale when it is on draught.
Mr. J. Sharp, of the Gaiety', draws it in fine condi-
tion; so also do the following: Mr. Brewer, of the
Club House; Mr. White, of the Arcade, King-
street; Mr. M'Cleary, of the Colonnede; Mr. Hill, of
the City Bank Hotel; Mr. Coder, of the New
Brunswick; Mr. Spain, of the Barley Mow; Mr.
South, of the Manchester Arms; Mr. Webber, ot
the Post Office, York-slreet; Mr. Edward Trickett,
of Trickett’s Hotel, Bridge-street; and Mr. Dunn,
of the New York Hotel. There are hundreds ol
other hotels in the city drawing the Waverley Pale
Ale, but these within a certain radius are sufficient
just for mention.
Mr. J. Johnson's New Coffee Palace and
Hotel.
The announcement of the sale of the No. 3 Coffee
Palace, which was started under such favourable
auspices, directs attention t« the extraordinary
success, in the immediate neighbourhood, of Mr.
John Johnson’s restaurant—which has certainly
proved a boon to the vast business population of
the Northern end of Sydney. Mr. Johnson came
in at the right time, and his success more than
proves the adage—every man to his trade. There
is hardly another business which requires such
watchful management as that of a public caterer,
and there can be no mistaking the fact that it is
in this very escential that Mr. Johnson ex-
cels. The premises are new and spacious
stone structures. Nos. 231 and 233, the property of
Mr. Johnson, and designed and erected by himself.
The buildings rise four storeys high, and have a
great depth and width, affording splendid facilities
for the requirements of a first-class hotel cal'<S and
restaurant. On the ground floor is a spacious
dining hall, where a first-class shilling luncheon is
served, with ale, porter, or milk, included, and
which, consequently, has attracted a very large
crowd of people, who, hitherto, were unable to
obtain at the Northern end of the city, any such
accommodation. On the first floor are three large
dining rooms, the Is. (id. section, and including a
fine dining saloon for ladies—which is conducted
with particular regard for privacy and comfort
Here on this floor, also, are smoking and reading
rooms, the furnishing throughout being first-class.
On the second and third floors are to be found the
best-planned bedrooms to be found in any one
house in the colonies. In no other part of the
establishment was Mr. Johnson’s design shown to
such advantage, and there is many an architect
who can learn something here of the great princi-
ples of light and ventilation. The visitor, on go-
ing through the establishment is impressed with
the spaciousness of the whole accommodation.
The bedroon> s are wide and lofty, the upper por-
tions being of moveable glass sashes, at all times
securing good light, the lowest possible tempera
ture, and the purest air. Nor is there another
establishment of the kind with so numerous an
array, on each floor, of baths and other conveni-
ences; ten times the usual space is devoted to this
purpose, and the patents are the best and costliest
procurable, securing the highest possible attain-
ments in this most important particular. The
whole area is carpeted or oil-clothed, and the
paperhanging for the most part is of the best gold-
stamped pattern-even to every bedroom. This
part of the establishment is well worth inspection,
and no better place in Sydney, at a reasonable
111/..
tariff of charges, can be selected by any visitor to
the metropolis. Of course the sensible plan has
been adopted by Mr. Johnson ot catering for the
mass of the intelligent public, hence, while on one
side the house has all the features of the best con-
ducted coffee tavern, the wants of another section
of the community are catered to*- on the other
side, where one of the best furnished hotel bars in
Sydney is to be found. This bar is a picture, and
is supplied with the very best wines, spirits, cham-
pagnes, ales, porters, &c., to be purchased, and it
is from here supplies are drawn as required at
luncheon. Behind this hotel bar is to be found a
magnificent billiard saloon—where are two of
Alcock’s best billiard tables, and two from our
local manufacturer, Hulbert, who has produced
here two tables of matchless excellence. This
billiard saloon wants to be seen to be appreciated.
And here again is the first-class design of the
whole place once more brought under notice. At
the rear of the saloon are spacious lavatories, &e.,
with water supply arrangements at all times,
securing purity and comfort. Omission was
nearly made of mentioning a splendid ice house
on the premises, about 13 feet squre, where meats,
&c.—all of which are purchased whole°ale—arc
stored. The whole of the business is under the
personal supervision of Mr. Johnson, whose
eye travels over the cuisine as well as the dining
halls, and who personally, with Mrs. Johnson, sees
to the comfort and wants of his patrons. M o es-
tablishment of the same kind in Sydney has proved
so successful. The furnishing and equipping alone
has cost £9OOO. The average weekly attendance is
between 6000 and 7000 persons—and the number is
increasing—a good result for plucky enterprise
and good management.
A Note for the Darling Point People.
Day by <lay the people residing in the suburbs are
getting- the facilities and conveniences of business
which previously were only enjoyed by residing in
the heart of the city. Houses of business of every
description are going up or extending their
branches, so that in the price and character of
good 8 there is nothing to fear in competition with
the first houses in the city. The patrons of that
first class hostelrie, the Darling Point Hotel, will
consequently be glad to hear that the popular
proprietor, Mr. S. Ryall, has opened two new
branches in connection with his business, namely,
in extensive single bottle department and a
superior private bar. With regard to the first, Mr.
Byall virtually adopts the wholesale principle for
the smallest order of goods in bottle, selling to his
customers at importers’ prices—a concession that
is certain to be largely availed of, seeing that the
wines, spirits, ales, porters, &c, are of the
very best brands and character. Among
the largest lines are brands of the oldest and
choicest wines procurable from abroad. The
private bar has been decided upon by the pro-
prietor in connection with the wholesale-retail
principle, enabling customers ard families to get
their supplies without going to a public bar. The
private bar is neatly fitted up with facilities for
securing the most desirable privacy. Although
but a few weeks open, Mr. liyall’s two new
branches have secured the patronage of the
majority of the residents, and a further extension
of business fnay be expected for the enterprise
displayed. It may, in conclusion, be mentioned
that Mr. RyaU is the agent in the Eastern suburbs
for Fulton’s celebrated Albury wines, which no-
where find more appreciation.
The Demand for Zigzag Mountain Coal.
A good deal of interest has been manifested in
the demand which has exhibited itself for the
Zigzag Mountain coal. The company, who are
represented by Mr. T. S. Huntley, at 130. Pitt-
-Btreet, over Mills and Pile’s Mart, have only re-
cently commenced operations on an extensive
scale, but the coal, being of the very best quality,
has found already such a large market, that the
capabilities of the company have been severely
taxed. The Zigzag- coal-mine is situate directly
alongside the railway line, so that in this respect
the removal per railway represents a minimum
cost, of which advantage the public reap the
benefit in the liberal tariff of charges decided
upon by the company. The seams worked in the
Zigzag deposit are among the finest in any Aus-
tralian colliery, and the coal is altogether unlike
other mountain coal, being of the character of
the best Newcastle or Wollongong, having
splendid qualities of combustion, with great
heat-produoing force, and burning to a pure,
clear cinder. The largest demand for Zigzag
coal has come from the various brickmakers or kiln
proprietors all over the suburbs, who have found
15 cwt. of Zigzag coal to go as far as
a ton of other mountain coal. An experi-
enced brickmaker can tell, at a distance, a kiln
burning Zigzag coal, as it produces a steady white
glow, with slow combustion, and the result is
seen in the hardest burnt brick to be found in
the market—a desideratum of the highest value
just now, yvhen architects are stipulating against
badly burnt bricks. The company have agencies
at the railway stations at Newtown, Petersham,
Ashfleld, Burwood, and Parramatta, and from
these stations brickmasters in all the suburbs can
have their supplies with every despatch.
Hulbert’s Sydney Billiard Tables.
There is no questioning the fact that Hulbert, the
enterprising' young English billiard table manu-
facturer, who established a factory in this city
about three or four years ago, is making a big
name for himself. The Hulberts are a race or
English billiard table makers, and the founder ot
the Sydney works can lay claim to the highest
encomiums from Roberts* Cooke, and other cele-
brated savants of the cue. Mr. Hulbert brought
with him to the colony a few billiard table arti-
zans, and their number he has since and is still
strengthening. The works were established in
George-street, near the Mariner’s Church, and here
an unpretentious start was made, the resolve
being that every table should speak of its own
merits, and that success should be won only by
trial and competition; and certainly Mr. Hulbert
has triumphed. The founder of the business soon
discovered splendid material in the Tasmanian
figured blaokwood, which has a magnificent grain,
is of great solidity and weight, and admits of a
superb polish. From this wood, table-legs of great
thickness, splendidly carved and turned, are made;
and the body, no less attractive, is procured from
the same source. The best pure native India
rubber cushions are used, guaranteeing ac-
curacy and speed, and never causing the ball
to jump. As lor tne beds, they are of the
best Welsh slate, in no case of less thickness than
Kin., sometimes 2in. being used. On such tables,
the ball has perfectly silent motion, and the play
is always fast. Wherever Mr. Hulbert’s tables
have been taken, they havegiven the very highest
satisfaction. Various clubs, and some of the first
hotels in the colony, and many of our private
mansions, have now one or two of Hulbert’s tables.
Two tables of first-class make have been in use
for some time at Louis’s, George-street, near
the Royal; and now two of the latest make are to
be found in the splendid billiard saloon at John-
son’s Sydney and Melbourne Hotel George-
street. Here the tables have been tested by the
best players in Sydney, with the one result—a
verdict of unsurpassed excellence. It ought to be
remembered that Mr. Hulbert's charges lor even
his best tables are considerably below those of
other makers. The same words of commendation
may be used with regard to all requisites of the
billiard-room. Billiard connoisseurs should, liow-
| evci, itiS|.ect for themselves. This article is but
to serve the purpose of directing attention and
I Inquiry.


Wells’ “Hough on Cohns.”—Ask for Wells|
Rough on Corns.” Quick relief, complete, per-
manent cure. Corns, warts, bunions. Most
Moss & Co., Sydney, General Agents.
Catarrh of the Bladder.—Stinging irritation
iullamation, all Kidney and similar Complaint.!
cured by “ Buchu-paioa.” Moses, Moss A: C
Sydney, General Agents.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
[Correspoiulents who give neither name nor nom-dc-
plume cannot expect to have their com-
munications noticed.~\
“Coz.”: Nothing in it. ...“Young Aus-
tralia”: “A needles 3 Alexandrine ends the song,
which, like a wounded snake, drags its slow length
a10ng.”..“ F.H A good story, but eighteen cen-
turies too old—“Cipio”: In-cip-idSpbynx”
(Walcha): Good yarn. Rather long. Will consider.
....” Bosh Grillings ”: Try something in an original
style “Jumbo” (Waverlcy): It was a trying
position. The story might do for the larrikins of
Waterloo or Woolloomooloo, if published in the
Police Gazette, but the fun is too Rabelaisian for
us “ A.Z.,Ch.Ch.”: W« warm towards you, some-
how. If you lived near us we would be Arm
friends. Ye-ur sketch is good, but it is your poetry
that fetched us. There is an aroma of experienced
imbecility about it that stamps the author as an
idiot of really exceptional promise. How is it we
never heard from you before? Most of the
“ omadhauns ” in Australia, and a few from be_
Full Up—of Mis-Management.
RATTLE HIS BONES OVER THE STONES, ONLY A BLUNDER THAT NOBODY OWNS.
yond the sen, have found out our address long
before now. We could run a Turkish bath with
their “ impromptus,” and mean to publish thorn
some day, just to show the amount of latent drivel
seeking an outlet in this small community. Your
verse No. 4,
“Though my experience has been short
I come to this decision,
(Yet while I like to have a flirt)
That marriage is but derision,”
betrays a keen insight into the secret springs of
human action, coupled with an incisive and felici-
tious style. No. 6 evinces a faculty for sharp obser-
vation—
“ I seen some ladies feet so small
That you could hardly see them,
I seen some that resembles hams,
Or perhaps a side of bacon.”
But it is in No. 7 you culminate. Unfortunately
we have not room for it this time, but will work
it in by-and-bye. Yes, A.Z. We could run
The Bulletin on your poetry alone. Drop
in, and see us, if you come this way
“Post Office”: What you say is quite true but
does not apply to us. The Bulletins sent through
the post are enclosed in paper strong enough for
t
he tire of a cattle-truck, and secured with paste
sticky enough to keep M'Elhone in his seat
“Ex Screw”: You should get some elementary
work on the peculiarities and requirements of
rhythm and rhyme “F.C.K.” : Have lost the
run of your enclosure, flow was it named ? ...
“ Parvo in Multum ”: Glad to hear from you again.
By the way, your English is a good deal better
than your Latin “ Spokeshavo We have read
it before. You might just as well have sent us the
newspaper cutting, as taken the trouble to copy it
out. ..“Maud”: Pleased to hear from you. We
have several accounts, as you conjecture. During
the worry of Xmas publication we mislaid the
P.O. address. Please send it again, as our inten-
tions have not altered.... “Ruck” (Campbelltown):
You ask us to tell you whether you are to send us
any more stock movements or not. Why, certainly.
If our correspondents didn’t forward us plenty of
stock movements, potato quotations, bush fires,
and alligator legends, lipw inthunderdo you think
we should be able to fiiid material for our poetry ?
Thanks, but next time kindly give
name for our information “C.A.M”: Item has
slipped our memory. What was it ?
We do not undertake to return rejected
communications. Writers should keep copies.
That Husband of Mink is three Limes the man
he was before he began using “Wells’ Health.
Renewer.” Druggists. Moses. Moss Sr. 00.. Sydney
CJeneral Agents.
“Rough on Rats.”— Clears out rats, mice,
roaches, flies, ants, bed-bugs, beetles, insects,
skunks, jack-rabbits, gophers. Druggists. Moses,
Moss & Co.. Sydney. General Agents.
“ Buchu-paiba.” Quick complete cure,
all annoying Kidney, Bladder and Urinary Diseases.
Druggists. Moses. Moss & Co.. Genera. Agents.
A Great Business.— The United States of
America is the home of some very large enter-
prises, but none perhaps greater than the business
conducted by Mr. G. G. Green, of Woodbury, New
Jersey, U.S.A. He is the proprietor of the well-
known Boschee’s German Syrup, which is un-
j equalled as a remedy for Pulmonary and Bronchial
1 affections. He manufacturers also Green’s August
Flower for Dyspepsia and all disorders of the
J Liver. These preparations are used throughout
! the civilized world, and thousands testify to their
i valuable curative properties. Both these prepara-
I tions have reached an immense sale solely on their
merits. Sample bottles of each are sold at fid., or
full-sized bottles at 3s. fid. All druggists keep
I them.*
" THE POOR PLAYER."
[Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession.']
St. Leon was refused the use of Belmore
Park for his lircus, but Chiarini’s big show is
always welcome. ’T was ever thus. ’Tis the fattest
hog that is always greased. Not very poetical;
but strictly true, for all that Ashton's Circus
blown down, and partially injured by fire, in
Riverina. Ashton is the oldest King of the Arena
in this hemisphere. He has been known to knock
a back somere iult out of an aboriginal youngster
in three lossons George Smithson went off
to New Zealand on th i 15th, and her hub., Mr
Holloway, has been engaged as clown by Chiarini.
ccording to the Tumut Times, over 100 per-
sons attended tho performance at Chiarini’s circus
ou the opening night in Sydney. We are rejoiced
to hear this, because Chiarini himself says there
were just 5000; and if we found a circus proprietor
telling an Archieforbeser, we’d at once lose all
confidence in our sex.
Speaking of the ties that biud .Patti to
Nicolini, a Southern paper says:—“Nicolini is her
slave. He saves her trouble. He tuns around for
her, fetches and carries for her, sees t) her break-
fast, goes to the kitchen himself to see that her
dinner and supper are just as she would have
them, takes her to her carriage after the per-
formance, takes her to her room, dresses and
disrobes her, and, in short, fills a r6le something
like that of a maid; only he is more patient
and considerate than a maid would be, and his
functions are more various.” Ahem ! Like
“ mobled queen,” “ various ” is good, and we are
pleased to hear our friend Nic. is patient
Henry Irving’s acting in New York brought for
one month the colossal return of £ls,ooo—Ellen
Terry has been gushing about her children to a
New York interviewer, stating that they were left
in the loving care of Mary Anderson. Admitting
that her little family arrangement is sure to meet
with approval from beautiful Mary’s countrymen,
yet we think that the less fuss made over those
children publicly the better. Ellen Terry has bee n
twice married. She had no children by her first
husband still lives), nor has she given to her
second husband any pledges of her lo ve; but, some-
how, she managed to supply this latter gent, with
a ready-made family ere be led her lo tlie altar...
“ The Stranglers” is a sensational play just ou at
New York. The leading artist is a handsome man
off the stage, but, as Jagon the Strangler, is
hideously repulsive, the lace being painted a
bluish white, livid colour, aud the horrible fingers
that twist and writhe around his victims’ throats
t re veined and streaked like those of an old ema-
ciated man. Jagon explained that he had learned
the pleasant pastime of choking human beings
when a slave holder in Africa, where, when slaves
were refractory, he used to have them brought to
him, and stiaDgled them for pleasure, till he be-
came an adept in the business. He commences in
the first act by strangling an old sea captain. He
pulls him outof bed and lifts him bodily up by the
| neck, turning his face towards the audience, so
that they may have the full benefit of his facial
agony, and slowly shakes his victitr. until his
I tongue protrudes and his eyes turn upward. At
I this poinf, the Strangler pushes him backward
i over the table, and tho final agony of his death is
j veiled from the audience. When the victim is
j quite dead, the Stran/ler bursts into a glassy
| smile and tossiM him aside. And this kind of
! picnic is continued on in every act for nearly four
hours. When the misshapen wretch dutches the
throats of his victims, women in the audience turn
their heads away Each performance at Ab'»-.v'*
Metropolitan Opera House, New York, cost £l3oo
On the ope ling night, wh ea “Faust" was g.vm
Madame Nilsson received £4OO, Campanini £2X»,
Madame Scalchi £lOO, and the chief dancer £;'< t
There was ninety performers in the orchestn *
eighty iti the chorus, and fifty in the ballet At,
wo predicted a little while back, Irving’s mosi
successful appearances before American audiences
have been in “Louis XI.” and the “Lyon’s Mail. ’
Strangely enough, these are the two pieces i"
which the late Charles Kean—whose pcculiarith s
of manner provoked almost as much controversy
ssdo Irving s in theso latter days-always gaim-d
the encomiums of friends and foes alike. ChatlcH
Kean’s widow is, by the way, one of the warmest
admirers of the Lyceum idol.


BRIEF MENTION.
The man who is the most interested in the
Marquis of Boot—Abigail.;
At the Crown-street Public School. Fifth
class. Teacher: “Now, boy, construe Multum in
paruo." Boy (promptly): “Lemon squash.” His
little cane.
Ominous this. Judge Dowling has just re-
ceived nine months’ leave of absence. In order,
we presume, to enable him to conceive a new
judicial joke.
The only difference between Shylock and
a Government messenger is that the latter won't
take a ponnd of anything but a pound of money.
240 per cent, added.
That famous bush missionary is no longer
on the track of the weary sinner. Last we heard
of him, he was large as life in a Melbourne auc-
tion room, quaffing champage, but not making a
single bid.
“ Ah, well, probably it’s not money thrown
away: they’ll keep for Bute,” sighed the Noose
reporter, as he mournfully rubbed in the dripping
and placed away in the cupboard the new pair of
bluchers he had intended to interview Langtry io.
A newly-made J.P. recently wrote to the
lessee of the run on which he had selected, and
after much circumlocution comes to the point as
follows: “ Ef ewer dunt tak ewer ship of mi sleok-
shun, bewaher, this is the thudtim i am ewers
trully , justiss piece.”
At Penrith, an Arcadian village. Sick
stranger to local storekeeper : “ Have you any
vaselino?” L. S. (scratching his bead): “Well,
now, 1 haven t. But” (inspired by a happy
thought) “ I can let you have a first-class saddle
and bridle, cheap.” Exit stranger, sadly.
“The applicant has apolied to me for a
certificate of his knowledge of German,” wrote a
professional linguist in Sydney. “ T have great
pleasure in certifying that ho understands the
language far better than 1 do, for I do not under-
stand a word he says. Yours, Caul M .”
It's all up with our chance of ever getting
sight of the Garden of Edon now. Kov. Dr.
Mallalieu, of Boston, declares it is probably under
the waters of the Indian Oo»an. So that our onlv
hope is that one of our Y.M-C A. enthusiasts will
dive down and haul the old plantation up agam.
A Sydney paper speaks lately of “the
broad and trustworthy Lachlan River.” It's quite
evident the writer never saw a youngster of nine
doing a gentle “go-as-you-please” hop over its
breadth and trustworthiness with a pocket fuli of
green apples filched from his neighbour’s garden.
Warrnambool has lost J. 11. Craig, known
as Honest John. The blow might have fallen on
our own community. But our Honest Johns are
still happily spared to us. We have Honest John
Sutherland, and Honest John Lucas, and Honest
John Davies, and Honest Joh« Robertson. Happy
people !
Who held the pass of Thermopyhe against
the Persian host?” thundered the teaober at a
recent school exam. And then the tow-headed
little son of a well-known legislator lisped out,
“ Pleatb, thir, I think my father held one. Least-
ways, he hez a pass for every lana sale where they
gives a luncheon.” Chaos.
Says the Northern Argus (Rockhampton)
in a recent leader: “We have already told Earl
Derby and we have to tell him now,” &c. Phew!
Won’i Derby squirm when that tornado bursts
upon him. Reminds us of the Kerry editor, who
once wrote, “ Let the Emperor of Russia beware.
We have our eyo upon him.”
We are told that the Countess of Rosebery,
after spending some time at her devotions in the
Synagogue the othrar day, gave £2O to be dis-
tributed among the poor. And now the poor are
waiting for a lot of pious Sydney plutocrats to go
and pray £2O each into their lists. And wo are
afraid they will have to wait.
To keep up the price of spices the Dutch
often jettisoned half a cargo they were bringing
from the East Indian archipelago. Tho circum-
stance was called to our mind by observing that
tno Sydney oomoany, in order to reduce- the demand
for ice, have determined on raising the price of
the lOtb-hlock to Is. Bd. Advance Australia i
Tbeothereveningabush “smarty” walked
Into a N. w, township, and asked to be accommo-
dated with a pair of boots, size 1(5. Being civilly
informed that no such size was kept in stock, he
asked for “ two pairs of eights,” which being pro-
duced he refused to take, and was at length only
disposed of by the application of two “ bunches of
fives.”
The Chief of Police in Petersburg has
suppressed a paper, and got the proprietor ban-
ished to Siberia, lor printing revolutionary corre-
spondence from their reoorter at the London
Sanitary Exhibition. He had stated that a large
section of British houses had provision made for
baths, and that many of the higher classes washed
all over daily.
The prohibition, by Lord Derby, of annex-
ation of island continents at nominal prices, has
broken up a large Queensland syndicate. On
winding up tb« company, considerable diificulty
was experienced in distributing the subscribed
capital, as it was found it wouldn’t run amongst
tuo promoters a full string of beads and a red
blanket apiece.
“Come sta ella,” said a leading alderman
to Captain de Amezaga, pulling out "Aim's First
Italian Course,” and keeping his fiDger on the
phrase. And the new Roman replied in French,
n Pardon me, sir, I have not tho honour of being
versed in the aboriginal tongues; but I will ac-
quaint His Imperial Majesty of your ardent aspira-
tions for Italian reciprocity.’*
IF.
If we were in the beav’nly town,
Wearing a gleaming golden crown.
And wrapped in bliss with naught to dash it—
We think, mayhap, if we looked down
Throuirh the golden gate and chanced toseo
Coming up there a C M.G.,
We’d fling our crown at him and smash it.
A Dublin “spook” medium reports having
recently spoken with the late Mr. Alderman James
Carey. Mr. Carey, we regret to learn, has not been
feeling very well of late, and says he has suffered
ver» tnueh'from the recent sultry weather. Mr.
Marwood also dropped in just to ask how his
friend Binns has birin getting along since be left,
and if there was any more nooze of O’-Donevan
Rossa.
The following uote was recently received
by the manager of the ref reshment rooms, Beoailla:
“Dear Sir, f enclose 3d. in stamps l'or a cup ol’
coffee I did not pay you for the other day. VTours
truly, Honesty.” If paying old debts like this
becomes popular, Victoria will soon be the most,
moneyed colony in all Australia. But the char.u of
the incident lies in the circumstance that the cor-
rect price is Od.
This from a recent Nooze. “ Albury has a
Pagannini all of fcerown- William Denny bv name,
who performs on a single string, and does it so
well that it is said he is .ikely to startle Sydney
folks when he comes here.” The lamemed Mr.
Nosev Bob used to startle lolks wRh a single Bcring-
also but. he was never immortalised like William
Denny. But then he never subscribed to the Down
AND Gum TREE JOURNAI,.
Squatter to new chum Irishman, who has
despondently answered in the negative to all
enquiries as to his fencing, hut-building. &c., capa-
bilities : “Well, look here, my man, if you cant,
do anything else, you surely can pull sheep out of
a bog.” NC I , with a whoop of delight: ‘ A bog
Is it ver Haunor? fit jabers, just show me at it.
Glory be to bod, but divil a pl-ce else did I wurk
in all me life, at all at all.”
Soene, Water Police Court: Any day.
Stipendiary Magistrate [fortissimo) : "Como sir,
answer plainly. Is the prisoner a man of intem-
perate habits ?.” Witness for the defence (who baa .
been beating about the bush a great deal): * Well,
y* Wusship, he never do go on a howlin’ tear y
see, but he’s wot y’ might call a good consistent
"runkard. You know wot I means, sir.” The
Stipendiary tried to look as if he didn't.
The Holy Barry says:—‘lMr. William
Gardine, oue or the principal leader writers of the
Melbourne Argus, died on Monday last, after a
short illness. He was operated upon for a car-
buncle, and gradually sank after the operation.”
Oh, we would weep the loss of this poor soul
Until the tears adown our pale cheeks ran,
Indulge in sorrow quite beyond control—
But, as it happens, there urns no such man.
The Prince of Wales has just bought
230,000 acres of land in Kansas. It % well known
th it when the Duke of Manchester came over here,
he had a “oommish.” from H.R.H. Manchester
was “ brothers ” with Sir Henry Parkes, talked
about the classics with Mr. Andy—we mean
Andrew—Lynch, M P., feelingly shook John
Davies’ hand and yet it didn't come off. No, it
didn't come off; yet his Grace has had the satisfac-
tion of squeezing John Davies' hand.
Another victim of religious mania. Maria
Lansley, 22 yGars, of Kilmore, thought the nearest
way to glcry lay at the bottom of a. waterhole,
and went exploring there accordingly. Who is
responsible for these religious murders is becoming
a very serious social problem.—
The safest way to b® “ neaven’s bride ”
Some deem is just to “suicide
But we think Hell’s gain quite prodigious
Prom this accurs’d mania religious.
It is a curious coincidence that just as they
have committed our Deputy Registrar-General
for trial, charged with Bim<\ trifling irregularities,
which, after all, even if thev actually occurred,"
could only bo considered as tho eccentricities of a
“wed-connected” mind,” he Queensland Govern-
ment have liberated Seth Peterson, tho late D.
R.-G„ who has been in durance for some years for
a few small peculiarities he exaibited in the
manipulation of his accounts. See-saw, Margery
Daw. [On it again, evidontly.-Eo. B]
Chemists—Melbourne chemists, atgaiyrate
—must be a bad lot, according to the testimony of
a >v.\R Ckv vendor. A few davs ago one of
these uniformed newsmen entered a chemist’s
shop in the Victorian capital, and, alter vainly
endeavouring to " tlx” the grinning assistant with
a “horgan of the II 'rmy,” addressed him iu these
withering words: “You can keen it, young Seid-
litz Powder, you can keep it. I’ve never sold a
War Cry to a chemist yet, so you can have this
bloomin’ copy qratis."
OH !
*" Prince Albert Victor insists now upon
being called “Prince Edward” only.—London
Paper.
Prospective King, why change your name,
And agitate your sinsws mental ?
The world will go round all the same,
And no one cares a “ continental.”
Your name might be, for aught we'd care.
Smith, Walker, Brown, Green. Jones, orNubblcs;
It would not, Prince, be our affair
If you’d no name at all—“our troubles.”
The Melbourne militia are a splendid bodv
of troops. Recruiting has been going on in that
city for a long time back, 'l he torce now num-
bers 350 .strong. Pending a Russian invasion, it ii
proposed to utilise them as rabbit raiders. Their
desperate valour eminently qualifies them for
this dangerous duty. In fact, it app >ars r.hati i
order to satisiy in some measure t h eir thirst for
carnage, the commander of the corns is about to
lead them out against the suburban goats. We
are also further informed that medals are being
struck for tho decoration of those who will dis-
tinguish themselves in this camnaign. Happy the
country that has such defenders!
The following pathetic stanza forms the
opening of a “stirring ” hvmn which was sung at
the Orauge Celebration at Wiseman s Ferry:
“ Friends and Brethren! What a pleasure
That we thus can mi et to-day 1
Highly we such freedom tn asuro
Where each one can have his ’ say ’!”
Now for our little tribute to genius:—
“ Your lines w« shall ever treasure,
Dulcet warbler of this lay!
When you have a little Je’sure,
And it's dark— just come our way.
A firm down South has determined to per-
petuate the name of George Ernest Morrison. It
seems to have some doubts as to the stability of
his footing in the world of letters, and comes to
the rescue with a tent. The firm announces that
this contrivance is to be called the “Mornum
Tent.” Evidently, it is on the lucus a non lucendo
principle, for George never used this tent or saw
it. Some other firm of sparkling intellect should
now give us the “ Vagabond ” trouser-strap, as
the “ Vagabond” has none; or the “ Arrnit” sock,
as, if things be as in th® old North Queensland
days, the gallant captain doesn’t carry such a
thing.
Larrikins, when you,
To spice your, menu,
Should across, by good luck, a Chinaman fall -
To the ground dash him!
Bash him! Smash him!
What business has he to be yellow and small f
Policemen, when you,
To change the vouue,
Up to the gaol such a larrikin haul—
With the whip thrash him!
Slash him! Lash him!
What business has he to bo living at all ?
It was ’ race time” in the flourishing
bush township of Dustybottom. Publicans and
sinners were alike busy, the former remarkably
ho. On Boxing Day morning a guest at one of the
hotels, happening to invade the sanctity ol the
kitchen, unavoidably heard the following collo-
quy:—Host, loquiter, to Hostess: “Is that all the
fine salt we’ve got left in the’ouse ? ” She: “yes,
that's the lot. You must remember we’ve used a
terrible dose this Christmas. Why, they must ha’
drunk all out four casks '• f -»tor*’ay ” He: “Well,
then, I s’pose you’d bet < r shove some o’ the
coarse in, but it don’t disc >lve nigh as quick, an’
ah, good morning Mr. ! come an’ ’ave a
nip.”
Mr. M'Guiro. of Coromandel, N.Z., has a
practical wav of bringing municipal grievances
before the Council Fathers down there that wo
might copy with profit to ourselves. While the
Council was angrily discussing the advisability of
purchasing a gold chain for the Mayor, the other
day, the original Mr. M’Guire coolly marched a big
cart horse, uli covered with slush, right up to the
council table, just to draw attention to the fact
that it was necessary to promptly repair a certain
road, into a hole of which his hors® had just fallen
with a heavy load, and narrowly escaped suffoca-
tion. M’Guire’s eloquence wasn’t much, but the
aroma from the horse pleaded more strongly than
a thousand tongues.
For obvious reasons the four gentlemen
who were recently “triangled” in the Woolloo-
mooloo academy have slept face downwards ever
since. They say sleeping on the back prevents the
free action of the heart’s superior vena cava and
brings on the fantods or nightmare. During the
performance on the triangle one of the soloists
asked the following prize conundrum, “ Why was
1 ever born ? ” Everybody gave it up, and it then
leaked out that the intercolutor didn't know him-
self. As the “cat” bites worse a few days after
the scratches have been inflicted, we presume the
gentlemen referred to have some difficulty just at
present to discover which part of their back re-
quires the most rubbing.
At Clonourrv (N.Q.), five men went into
partnership. Four of them, by perseverance and
pigments, were made up to resemble Indian
C jolies, and the fifth, got up as an Anglo-Indian
sugar-planter just arrived in Queensland on the
look out for land, claimed them as his property,
and sold them to a tipsy squatter at £3O a head.
Some soap and water restored them to civilisation,
and while the squatter is scouring the country for
his niggers they are drinking to his success in the
nearest shanty. Smart, this. Oh, and the eorres-
pondeut who sends us the story sends a lot more
news, but the language is too much iu the board-
ing-school-miss style for our journal. It should
be sent to a religious paper.
A Melbourne daily opens out ajleader in
the following auspicious terms : “ Mr. Spriggs
Smith has written a book advocating temperance,
and giving illustrations from his own personal ex-
perience in the metropolis of pale ale.” This is
the sort of English that breaks up the candidate
for university honours. Whereabouts is the metro-
polis of pale ale situated ? With such a sentence
as this before him, the unfortunate candidate ran-
sacks his geographical knowledge, and, just as
time is up and he hands in his blank paper, he per-
ceives that the tala is not at all about Spriggs
Smith's experience in the metropolis of pale ale,
but about his experience of pale ale in the metro-
polis. Plucked, however, by slip-shod English.
A little tow-headed Surry Hills boy had
heard his mother remark that she fixed eggs so
that they would keep by setting them on their
ends in salt, and he made a mental note of the ob-
servation. The next day there was a crowd of
company to tea, and as the revellers were sur-
rounding the Quong Tart juice, the little Urchin
begged his rna to make his aunt and her three
young daughters stay for the night. And when
she replied she was afraid she couldn’t keep them,
that bad boy yelled back—” I tell y* how to fix it.
Mamma. Keep them the way you keep the eggs.”
Then Ma started a yarn about a one-eyed horse of
her Pa's, that used to open a gate with his teeth
and eat tobacco, but the company never smiled
once till they struck for home, and then they
fairly laid down and shrieked.
For watering their cabbages on a sirocco-
blowing Sunday some Chinese at Blayney were
fined. “ Me no breakee Shunday. Me no put
water on, Englishman henogetteegood cabbagee”
was the absurd defence of these Pagans. Yes, and
there’s another place, a long tvay off, where a
venerable archdeacon gives a generally useful
man 275. fid. a wee k and grave-digging fees-no-
body has died in the neighbourhood since the
Crimean war. To see the church dignitary in
shirt-sleeves and umbrella, leaning against a tree
directing the “generally useful” person whst to
dr., while the thermometer in the shade is away up
among the hundreds, is a rebuke to the infidel,
the scoffer, aud those “ malignants ” who would
introduce the Continental Sunday by allowing
people to save their cabbages on the Sabbath.
The decorum of social life in Australia is
marked and beautiful. Archibald Forbes said
that. Wo. therefore, chronicle that, «n the 29th
December l j st, at Preston (Vic.', Augustus Love-
day, a very old man, was driving a vegetable cart
aloDgthe street, when John Gay Roberts, a power-
ful young man, stepped out and said he wanted to
buy some vegetables. Augustus parted with the
vegetables, and asked for the equivalent. John
Gay lifted him out by the neck, and laid him on
his bick in Plant's water-trough. The Court, the
other day, fixed the tine. We'll let Archibald con-
c.ude: “Societyin Australia savour* wholesomely
and sweetly.” There is something wrong here.
Wc meant to confirm what the war-correspondent
wrote, and, there, we've gone and confirmed what
he thought, Inste d.
Will some of our religious readers kindly
help us alving with this lot. Wah L >ong, of Nar-
ramiera, is a converted Chinese, and, being anx>ous
to secure a front seat in the celestial choir, he has
started to stud/ Britain's bulwark from end to end.
And, as a matter of course, he got badly upended
over every chapter. What knocks him out in one
rounl to-dav, however, is this: The Bible tells
him that Noah and his family were all that were
saved at the time of the Flood. That's all right.
But, then, the Bible also says one Methusaleh
lived to be 969 years old; and when the Flood—
which lusted a year—took place, this respected old
party was exactly 810 years of age. And now the
bewildered Wah L r) ong is scratching his scalp off
trying to find out where Mcthusaleh managed to
stow himself away during that twelve months of
excessive dampness.
Rosebery has departed from us, and the
tufi-hunteis und toadies are left disconsolate.
Melbourne iu particular lelt the loss bitterly, and
a select party of sycophants accompanied his
lorJabipdown Hobson's Bay, to take a long, last
look at the form they loved so w It. It is to be
hoped that the timer so perseverjugty piled upon
him in the Victorian capital, didn’t have the effect
of making him bilious on the trip to Adelaide.
Tne noble Etrl certainly did alt he could to
deserve the adulati in that was thrown at him, and
made himself “ very affable like " during his stay
in Melbourne, lie was especially forbearing in
the matter of the drains, lor it is a historical fact
that he strolled down Ebzabeth-street, with Lord
Nevill one morning, when aromas of that un-
savoury tho oughfare were more than usually
demonstrative, and yet—such was his regard for
the feeiiugB of the citizens-bested fastly refrained
from being sick.
It was in a bar parlour. “ Did you,” ex-
claimed someone, “ hear of the terrible whirlwind
that swept dowu Barber-street yesterday. Tortlc a
baby clean out of its mother's arms, and, as I'm a
living sinner, kept the poor Jittlo thing suspended
in the air while it swept along for a distance of at
least 40 yards, and then deposited it nearly suffo-
cated with dust, but not otherwise injured, ou the
verandah of Brock’s hotel.” “ Was there,”
eagerly demanded an auditor, “was there any-
thing the matter with its mouth?" "Not,that I
am aware of,” was the answer; “why?” “Be-
cause,” replied the other, “In tbs last drought I
saw a child carried up just the same way in one of
those wretched affairs, and when at last it was set
down, curiously enough, also on a hotel verandah,
its mouth was turned right up and down its face,
reaching from the nose to tho chin. It never re-
gained tho natural position, and they’re educating
the youngster for a missionary.”
“Call the ants bad here, do you?” he ex-
claimed as his host and himself watched the black
swarms climbing up the verandah posts, and along
tho roof and floors, in ceaseless streams—“ why,
tb s is nothing. Should have been where I was
this time two years. Central Africa, sir, close to
Tanganjlka. That was the place, if you like ;
simply an immense ant bed. We were in danger
of being devoured piecemeal, and had at last to
shift our camp to a small Island in the middle of
the lake; but do you Imagine that euchred ’em? no,
sir. Those animals had some savey, no error I The
big fellows, nearly six inches some of ’em, got great
leaves, loaded ’em up with a tribe or two of the
smaller species, and next morning we could see
the surface of tho lake completely covered with
’em, paddling along with bits of bamboo, for all
the world like a lot of Kanakas. Saw it was use-
less attempting to remain in that district, so got
into the launch and set off again down the lake,
and even then the disappointed little beggars
followed us for a day and a night. Talk of ants
eh I”
There was bliss in "the Russell-street
(Melb ) Congi egational Hall last week. Some-
where about five feet of it, with copious girth,
and the ends well polished off. It could speak—
this parcel of bliss could—and moderately well,
too, and with sweetness and sympathy. It was
Miss Bliss. She had been away enlightening the
darkuess of the Madagasearians, but, owing to tbe
way tho French and the Hovas were carrying on,
she had to come round to Melbourne without
doing any trade. When she explained that, the
parsons In the hall took out their handkerchiefs
and wiped their eyes. When she told bow little
the Hovas knew about Christian self-sacrifice,
there was a general outburst of sobbing. And
when, after a i'ttle, she described how comtortabie
most of the people were, and how much property
was one way and another lying about among
them, the hall fairly echoed with tho palpitation of
missionary zeal. We must convert Madagascar.
Miss Bliss will go back again as soon as the war is
over. And so will we. We had no notion the
Hovas owned so many good things and were so
easily gulled. We’ll also bring a Bible, a great big
family one, and, when we come back, we’ll buy up
those city allotments we have been used to look at
with such a covetous eye.
The Town Clerk of Melbourne (Mr. Fitz-
glbbon), usually so genial and hearty, is beginning
to exhibit sigus that his life has reached the period
when gravity of demeanour and severity of con-
duct are the right things to be clothed with.
Whether this has been hurried on by the trouble
he has had with the dog licenses, or by his frequent
interviews with Major Barker it is bard to say, but
the signs are stirring sorrow in many quarters,
an t eliciting remonstrances even from tne mem-
bers of the South Melbourne Swimming Club.
That club, last week, announced a grand swim-
ming match to be contested on the Yarra, with
tats intimation that the competitors would be ar-
rayed, “if anything, more decently than criok-
eters, ’ but when they arrived at the bank of the
river, a policeman stood there to arrest the first
who would get into the water. The policeman
displayed the mandate of Mr. Fitzgibbon. This
was sad. The way those men got into their coats
and wended homewards, turning a tearful eye,
every now and then, in the direction of the Town
Hall, told of glories that were gone. “If you
swim in such confoundedly transparent toggery
as that,” said the Town Clerk, endorsing a Scotch
terrier license; “you must do it before 7 am.
You hear?” And then he turned about and said,
‘ Major, when will you have the next muster of
the Hallelujah lasses ? ”
So far as we’ve gone in ’B4, the number of
fatal accidents from “ I-didn’t-know-’twaa-
loaded,” shows a gratifying decline. There is a
prospect, indeed, of the railway department being
called upon to oater for the public in the “sensa-
tion ” line, and it is generally cheering to know
that the existing arrangements in that branch of
the public service will probably end in the roast-
ing of a train of holiday-makers. The other dav,
between Junee and Wayga, one of the carriages of
a mixed train caught fire, and, as there was no
means of communicating with the driver (such a
means, if you remember, would have saved many
lives and thousands of pounds to the Victorian
authorities) the guard had to crawl over the car-
riages to get the train stopped. We don’t know
the height of the bridges on this line, but we do
know that not long ago one of them took off a
man’s head as neatly as Blue Beard removed the
heads of the poor women before ho met Sister
Anne. And wo know, too, that some years ago, a
number of people were burnt to death on an Kng-
lish railway because the carriage doors were
locked, and there were “no means of communi-
cating with the driver.” There is one lesson that
is never learnt, although the catastrophies arising
from its neglect are of the most appalling, Hun-
dreds may bo burnt in theatres or railways. The
terror is as transient as widespread. There is a
public funeral, a subscription, a howl of popular
indignation and—another Are.
THE TAIL OF A HORSE.
It’s the tail of a horse
And it’s thme in the mane;
I seen it meself, whin
I waited the thrain,
At the Bluff in New Zealand—
It was shuntin’ they were.
And that horse was a-draggin’
Some thrucks in his rear.
Whin a thrain came along
On that line, d’ye moind ?
And that horse was in front
And thim thrucks was behoind.
Were that horse, at the toime,
Not a horse, but a gint,
At the inquest they’d say
'Twas a sad accidint!
But, be jabbers! that quadhruped—*
What do you think ?
Turned round and unhitched hisself
Quicker than wink!
Thin jumped on the platform
And shuck his old hide,
While thrain and thim thrucks
Had a moighty collide!
A lawyer is a gentleman by Act of Par-
liament. Bear this in mind or you’ll miss all the
point of this par. Not long ago an attempt was
made to levy black-mail on a respectable young
Civil servant by means of (us it was after-
wards proved) a totally unfounded tkargeof child
paternity. Just, before tbo case came on, a certain
Mr. Bluebag called on the Civil servant, and the
following chat ensued. Mr. F.: “ Good morning,
sir. I represent Miss Blank. Bad business— /ery
bad business tbi j , I can assure you. Still, how-
ever, I have hopes—in confidence, I may 101 l you,
very strong hopes-that this unfortunate matter
can be amicably and quietly Bettleu. Now, my
client is willing to forego all further claims upon
you, providing you pay her £5O cash, and bear all
the necessary law expenses. Liberal offer, that.
Wbat d’ye think ot it?” “Ihmk !’’ replied ihe
other, “well, I think it’s a d— piece of cheek.
I am innocent, and I'll not pay a cent.” “ Very
good,” said tha gentleman by act of Parliament;
“your Superintendent will hear of tbi< to-mor-
row.’’ This, we submit, was a ease of intimidation.
A few days after the legal gentleman called again,
and said : “At my earnest solicitations my client
consents to stay all further proceedings on con-
dition that you allow her enough money to leave
the colony, and pay all costs of court, &c.” But
the intended victim si ill held out; the case came
on, and was indignantly dismissed by the magis-
trate before it was half heard. So the lady and
the lawyer were sent home on their ears, and not
a soul in this city was sorry for them.
I tenia of intelligence from country town-
ships are always, or nearly always, overpowering
in their interest, and especially thrilling was a
telegram that appeared in the Melbourne D.T.,
from “our own correspondent ” at Camperdown.
Briefly stated, the facts are these. A Camper-
down sow Inflicted a ten-inch bite on a boy, with
the result that “the blood from the broken
arteries flowed in alarming quantities ” But now
comes the reassuring part ot tbe telegram. “ Medi-
cil aid was obtained, which was equal to the task
of stopping tbe flow of blood. ’ We cordially con-
gratulate Camperdown on the possession of
medical talent capable of grappling with difficul-
ties in such a prompt manner, for the last time
a sow bit us we nearly bled to death before it
occurred to any of our physicians to bind up
“the broken arteries." But yet another item
from Camperdown. “Tbe shire engineer was
recently returning from Port Campbell with a
number of persons in a large van, when it sud-
denly capsized, and upon the living freight being
taken out, it was discovered that Miss Gubbins
was hurt in the side " However, we are pleased
to find that you will not be required to go into
mourning f>r Miss Gubbins at present, for the
telegram (this was a special telegram, quite dis-
tinct from the “sow” one) concludes with the
joyful tidings that “she was conveyed to a farm
house to wait until she would be sufficiently re-
stored to be taken home.” So you see that Miss
Gubbins is still a “living freight.” which is more
than we shall be soon, unless the Telegraph's
Camperdown correspondent tones down his har-
rowing stories. We can’t stand ’em.
When a local preacher goes to expound
repentance and Obadiah in a country chapel, the
brethren take turns about to sweep up the barn
floor, to give the circuit horse a good wholesome
dusty leed, and get in an extra sheep’s head to
honour the evangelist. J ustiflcatlon Brown was a
vessel noted for the unction of his discourses; but,
whatever the abundance of his grace, it certainly
did not interfere with the vigour of his stomach.
It came to the turn of Brother Jones, a “near”
brother, to And the provender this time, and he
groaned in spirit as be led the horse into the stable
and tried to fill him up with water for a start.
After a brief grace, Justification wont to work,
“ Yes,” he said, passing his plate the third time,
“ I was out at Billabong, and we had seven at the
penitent form. Let me see, I gave them the wrath
to come—no, Abraham’s faith—or was it justifica-
tion ? vv e ii, whatever it was, I shook them over
the pit, and—thank you, just another small slice—
shook them over the pit, and, praise be, before the
seoond hymn we had—just a couple of those pota-
toes; thanks—we hid lour crying aloud i or—those
beans are a favourite dish of mine; yes, I will take
another spoonful—crying out for fear of the
wrath to come. Therw was a gracious downpour-
ing of the—gravy ? Much obliged; just a little—a»
gracious an outpouring of the Spirit as gladdened
the heart o| the disciples at Pentecost—l prefer
the rto© pudding, thank you. Ah, yes, Brother?


flu
na*
§K
Hi
Ff ©pared according: to the directions o J Prof.
B. N. Horsford, of Cambridge, Maas.
PARTICULARLY RECOMMENDED FOR
DYSPEPSIA, HEADACHE, INDIGESTION,
MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXHAUSTION,
.MPAIRED VITALITY, NERVOUS DISEASES
HYSTERIA, WAKEFULNESS, SEA-SICKNESS,
WEAKENED ENERGY, &0.
W No Danger can Attend itb Usi.
Nervous Depression from Overwork.
Sluggish Circulation and Growing Chil-
dren.
„, , Sandusky, 0., May 21,1880,
I have used your Acid Phosphate and can pro-
nounce it a very valuable addition. I find it use-
ful and beneficial in nervous dyspepsia, nervous
depression following overwork and anxiety, as well
as the gastric derangements. Where there is
venous stagnation and sluggish circulation, a dull,
heavy head, it is of ußdoubted value. Fast grow-
ing children require this valuable addition.
W. R. PAGE, M.D.
Liver and Kidney Derangements.
t . . Boston, Mass., May 18, 1880.
In regard to the Hors ford’s Acid Phosphate, I
have used it very extensively, and with tne most
remarkable success.
I give it in dyspepsia and in all cases where there
is derangement of the liver and kidneys. With
my patients it has agreed wonderfully.
O. G. CILLEY, M.D.
Nerve Tonic.
A. 8. Carpenter, M,D., Keene, N.H., says :
“ Horgford’s Acid Phosphate is a valuable medi-
cine. I have taken it myself, and for several
years prescribed it for my patients, when suffering
from indigestion or innervation of the digestive
organs, ana always with satisfactory results. It is
a good nerve tonic, and in some cases of morbid
urine, * it acts like a charm,’ producing the desired
result. It is pleasant to the taste, acceptable to the
stomach, and is, in my opinion, an excellent and
valuable compound.”
Can be borne by the most Sensitive
Stomachs.
Fair Haven, N.Y., March, 1880.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate, in elegance of com
position, stands unrivalled, it is pleasant to the
taste, and can be borne by the most sensitive
stomach. Have prescribed ft with marked benefit
in indigestion and urinary troubles. It forms an
excellent substitute for Lemon juioe, and as such
will furnish a refreshing drink for the sick.
A. L. HALL, M.D,
RENNE’S
Pain Killing
Oil,
THE BEST GENERAL FAMILY REMEDY,
Purely Vegetable, and may be Used Internailj
or Externally.
“ It Works like a Charm. M
It is not an oily, greasy or sticky substance, but
CLEAN, delicious and Safe to use by every one.
As an external remedy it gives the weakened and
overstrained cords and muscles new life and elas-
ticity, ouring pains as water quenches fire. It cures
Sprain*, Headache, Sciatica,
Bruises, Toothache, Neuralgia,
Burns, Lams Back, Rheumatism,
Crick in the Neck or Back.
As an internal remedy it tones and corrects the
stomach, aids digestion, and readiJy cures Colie,
Cholera Morbus, Cramps, Dyspepsia, Sour
Stomach, Coughs, Sore Throat, and Dyp.
theria.
A bottle of RENNE’S PAIN KILLING MAGIC
OIL in the house, or on hand for immediate use in
case of emergency, will often save a life or a long
and tedious sickness.
Sold by Druggists, Grocers, and Dealers la
Medicines.
A FEW REASONS WHY THE CELEBRATED
Barron-Moxham American
Buggies and Carriages
Are the best imported into this country, and have
gained throughou ithe colonies such a high
reputation.
BECAUSE they are built of the best-selected and
thoroughly-seasoned stock
BECAUSE the wheels are ail of the highest stand-
ard make
Because the iron-work consists of the very best
steel and Norway iron, severely tested before
used
BECAUSE the trimmings are of the best No. 1
leather, and the upholstery is unique
BECAUSE the beat of lead, oil, and varnishes are
used in their finish
BECAUSE they are oach and all built under special
instructions to, and personal supervision of,
one of the leading carriage builders in America,
and specially constructed for the Australian
climate
And because all who use them say thky arb th*
best.
American Carriage Emporium,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
BARRON ,MOXH *M * cn..
Ag*i t
‘WhCrevCr two dr three dfe gathered tog-ether,
ttidrti am I,’ dee./' ilntil he liad olehred the table,
Add coiild Just clanjber uj3 on his horse: Then
Jdnris thoiightfiilly back, and Surveyed the
idre tame. His jaw dropped with a click. His
ittle wire saw the trouble, grot the Bible, and
Jointed out that in entertaining strangers many
lad entertained arigols unawares. “I’ll never
doubt the Bible,” said Brothe". Jones, rrimly sur-
veying, the empty platqs; ?‘but, it he's an angel,
I'm certainly of it. If he really is,
though,,don’t you think, dear, hi must have come
da awful long wag?"
Alas for frail humanity, it would appear
that a morsel of blue ribbon attaohed to the front
of a coat must not be aocepted as an infallible cer-
tificate of the strict sobriety of the wearer, more
especially if he happens to have a pipe in his
mouth. Mr. Francis Murphy, the well-paid apostle
of Temperance, has taken an exhaustive poll of
the teetotallers in one of the English counties, and
finds that smokers are just five times more liable
to break their pledges than men who have never
been slaves of the fragrant weed. For the future,
therefore, Mr. Murphy has that “pledge’*
takers shall be offered the additional privilege of
binding themselves to neither smoke nor drink, the
double-barrelled resolve to be denoted by the
adoption ef a blue ribbon with a whlt« line run-
ning down the middle. This is altogether a very
pretty idea, and one that may be enlarged upon to
any extent. For instance, the addition of a red
line might proclaim a regular attendance at church
—the further introduction of a streak of yellow
might inform our friends that we’d “sworn off ”
cards, and so on. Naturally, for tho use of such
people as “elders” and newspaper editors, an
extra broad ribbon, containing all the tints of the
rainbow, would be specially woven.—
THK LITTLE WHITE LINK.
In people who love the Blue Ribbon to sport
Our faith has been recently shaken.
For it seems they don’t always behave as they
ought,
In spite of the “ pledge” they have taken;
’Tis sad to reflect such backsliding should be,
But statistics have made it quite cleat
That maay who swear to take nothing but tea
Get wetting their whistles with beer.
But the strongest temptation—you’ll please Under-
stand—
To return to your habits of “soaking”
Attacks you directly a pipe's in your hand
(We always get thirsty when smoking);
So your chance of conversion is very remote,
If this Blue Ribbon Army you enter,
Unless that the ribbon you wear in your coat
Displays a white line down the centre.
It was a dull time in Backtowtt* The
knocking down of cheques seemed to the publi-
cans, as they sat in their several verandahs list-
lessly watching the grasshoppers go by, an ex-
ploded observance —a thing of the long past.
Presently, tolling along the hot, dusty road, publi-
can No. 1 espied a swagman. But, as he came
nearer, his hopes of a customer fell belbw zero.
Ragged, dirty, and footsore, tho traveller threw,
with a heavy thud, “the curse of God” off his
back on to the verandah, whilst sayinr, “Mister,
could you give a feller a glass o’ beer an’a feed
this New Year? I've had hard luck, an’ bin travel-
ling long without a job.” “ No, ’ was the suily re-
sponse, “I couldn’t- Takes a man all his time just
to live now-a-days, let alone giving feeds an’
glasses o’ beer away to every traveller as comes
i Heaving a deep sigh, the wanderer again
shouldered his “drum,” and, as if in pursuance of
a set task, went through exactly the same actions
and formula at each one of the six pubs, which
Backtown boasts, and with tho same and worse
luck, for some taunted and abused him as a
loafer; and always with the same weary sigh,
which, as he afterwards remarked, “might ha’
moved a - gohannor, ’ he again resumed his
burden, till at the last hoUSe, whose proprietor
was also listlessly counting grisshoppers, he
found chanty In the shape of, not one, but several,
glasses or bear, a square feed, and an offer of a
6hake*down for that night, the old landlord say-
ing, “ Although times is dull, I don’t never let a
hard-up man as calls go by without a drink an’ a
feed. I been on the wallaby myself in this country,
an’ may be agin yet. Stranger things ha’ happened
out hero, I reckon.” Next morning, the swagman,
putting money in notes and cheques to the amount
of £95 into his host's hands, remarked, “ Keep
that, an’ tell me when it's done, all but a fiver to
go on the road agen. I’ve bin working at Boloro
this twelve month, an’ I’m going back after Anni-
versary ” Then, like a man with a heavy burden
off his mind, he commenced to “ keep up the New
Year,” employing his sober intervals, though, in
visiting those other five pubs , arrayed in gorgeous
apparel, “ chiakiug ” the proprietors to his heart’s
content as they stood eagerly watching lor the
next ragged, worn, and weary swagman to come
along.
The cheapest a»»d best gymnasium in the
world—one that will exercise every bone and
muscle in the body—ls a flat piece ot steel, notched
in one side, fitted tightly into a wooden frame, and
rubbed backward and forward across a log in the
back-yard. Some people call it a saw.
From Mrs. W. Garrett, of Mount Viotoria,
we have received a dainty little box of honey in
the comb. The box is made with glass sides, and,
as the honey is in neat iayers, it presents a very
tempting appearance. It seems a monstrous thing
that when such honey can be produced in .this
colony, and packed in so attractive and appetizing
a stylo, we should continue to import from Europe
and California the quantities we do.
A youug man named Summers, sentenced
to four years hard labour and three floggiogs, for
robbing a drunken man in Little Bourke-street,
Melbourne, is alleged to be a victim to “ mistaken
identity," and the Chinese interpreter, Mr. Hodges
(who certainly ought to be well posted In Little
Bourke-street affairs) has written a long letter to
the Chief Commissioner of Police, setting forth
what he doubtless considers to be the facts of the
case. Mr. Hodges, you must know, has been
collecting evidence,” whioh evidence is to the
effect that the robbery with violence, for which
Mr. Summers is languishing in gaol, was really
cemmitted by three young men, named re-
spectively Brown, Jones, and Robinson. Somehow
we fancy that the Bourke-street lads have been
having a bit of a lark with th" worthy interpreter
in supplying him with the Dames of such a world-
renowned trio. At any rate, this particular Brown,
special Jones, and identical Robinson, are not at
present forthcoming ; go, in the meantime, the
unfortunate Summers has received flogging num-
ber one. Herewith we appeal to the better feel-
ings of 8., J„ and R., and beg of them to oorne
for’ard.
A “ HALLELUJAH ” IDYLL.
(After Tennyson.)
In the moadow, while the sunsot
Shed its glory thwart her face,
“ Happy Jane r ’ besought her lover
To be “sanctified in grace,*’
Angels surely wept with pleasure
Gazing down oh such a soene—
She a “ Hallelujah Lassie,”
He a lad of seventeen.
Warmer grew the maiden’s pleading—
Heavenly fire was in her eye;
“ Would he still be so unheeding ?
“ Did he never dread to die ?”
Thus she spake in accents mellow.
As they sat upon the grass—
He a verdant, fresh young fellow,
She a “ Hallelujah Lass.”
Softly stole the breezes balmy
O’er the sweetly-scented plain,
As he whispered “ Hang the Army!
Be alone my happy Jane;
Let the * captains ’ go to blazes,
Pitch away your tambourine!”
Blushing Jane her blue eyes raises
As she answers “ All serene!"
Don’t Die in the House.—“ Rough on Rats”
c ears out rats, mice, beetles, roaebes, bed-bugs,
ntes. ants, insects, moles, jack-rabbits, gophers.
Moses, Moss & Co., Bydney, General Agents.
DENOMINATIONAL DROPS.
Over ninety-three millions of bibles have
been issued by the British and Foreign Bible
Society, since its organisation. And the religious
papers complain that hundreds of thousands of
people have left the church of late years. This
con l os from the distribution of bibles. Those who
get them are enabled to see bow little the church
is like what it should be. The Church of England
is a child, as far as wordly wisdom is concerned,
compared with the Roman C.itholic Church. Ib
saw the folly of placing the blble in the hands of
the multitude. The British and Foreign Bible
Society is an advertisement of the weakness of
the Church of England.
The Rev. W. Hutchinson, after preaching
once in his new cure of Mansfield ( V.), threw up
his holy call and returned to the more congenial
and culchawed vineyard of Alexandra, He says
he poasitavely declines to-aw—labour in a town
of such “moral desolation." And this is the
disciple who claims to be the servant of the tn°ek
Nazaroen who was never more pleased than when
he was in the midst of the vilest sinners. The
"shining robe” department of Paradise will have
a heap of troble to satisfy the (esthetic taste of the
Rev. w. Hutchinson when he arrives, and we
“incerely trust the celestial ushers will see that he
has a box seat all to himself and, if possible, next
to that of the Royal Family.
There was a Diocesan Conference in
Chester a few Wijeks ago, the Bishop presiding.
One clergyman—the Rev. Thomas Hughes-rose
his lordship clean out of his seat, and made the
assembled parsons snort, with a paper ho read on
‘The Church and infidelity.” Wail© few of an 1
ordinary to Thomas—
knew much of the metaphysical cobwebs epun
round the words ‘substance ” and “person,” they
could all understand that they were liable to be
damned for not knowing. Again, he thought that
the Church's attitude towards Science was driving
all the young men into hostility. There Is uo
doubt that towards Science Christianity has been
a stepmother, and a very bad stepmother at that.
It is scarcely necessary to be told that “ the paper
was coldly received, and no discussion took place
upon it,”
Bishop Garrett, of Northern Texas, on
being nominated for the cosier and fatter see of
Indiana, wrote a letter to his nominators, from
which we make subjoined extract, and round
about which we can’t help thinkiog real grit
makes a genuine ring !—“I am not iusensibleto
the personal advantages presented by the enthu-
siastic support of 89 fide a body of laity as have
fixed their generous Choice upon me. But the
soldier of the cros3 must not seek the flowery beds
of ease. Though I should be entirely alone, and
neither clergymen nor laymen could be found to
follow, 1 should still feel it to be, not alone my
duty, but my privilege, to hold this burden against
all enemies, until I fall, or re-inforcements can
come up. Therefore, beloved, give my grateful
thanks to the nobie men who desire for mo un
easier, and if you will, a higher place. But do not
let them spend iheir time and strength in vain ;
tor I am rooted to this wild country until I shall
be planted ’ in its soil in tbe hope of a better
resurrection.”
Herman Merivale, who nas written good-
paying plays, proceeds to make merry over the
speculations of Hackel, of Jena. It shows, what-
ever serious views the play writer has of the
speculations of the modern evolutionists, he at
least is capable of a Voltairean indifference to the
significance of tbe phraseology. Here is his ver-
sified summary : -
“ Fast dying out are man's later appearanoes :
Cataclysmitic geologies gone—
Now of Creation completed the clearance is :
Hackel of J., you must anchor upon.
‘ Primitive Life-organisms were chemical,
Busting ’ spontaneous under the sea ;
Purely subaqueous, panaquademical
Was the original Crystal of Mo 1
“ I'm the apostle of mighty Darwinity
(Stands for divinity, sounds much tne same),
Apo-theistioo-Panasininity
Only can deubt whence the lot of us came.
“ Down mi you knees, Superstition and Flunkey-
Can’t you accept my plain doctrines instead ?
wnat is so simple as primitive Monkeydom
Born in the sea with a oold in its head ?”
Says Huxley, in the Agnostic Annual for
- Some twenty years ago I invented the
Word Agnostic to denote people who, like my-
self, confess themSBlves to be hopelessly ignorant
concerning a variety of matters about which
metaphysicians and theologians dogmatise with
the utmost confidence. Thus it will be seen that
Bort patent right in ‘Agnostic’ (it is
my trade mark) ; and I am entitled to say that I
can state authentically what was originally meant
by Agnosticism. What other people may under-
stand by it by this time I do not know. If a
General Counci of the Church Agnostic were
hdd, very likely I should be condemned as a
heretic. But I speak only for myself in endeav-
ouring to answer these questions. Agnosticism is
of the essence of science, whether ancient or
modern. It simply means that a man shall not say
he knows or believes that which he has no scien-
tific grounds for professing to know or believe I
have no doubt that scientific criticism will Drove
destructive to the forms of supernaturalism which
JwS. r . i ? t 0«* he constitution of existing religions
On trial of any sa-called miracle, the verdict of
science is ‘Not proven.’ The thcologicil ‘ gnosis’
would have us believe that the world is a con-
juror s ho ise ; the anti-theological ‘gnosis ’ talks
Jt w r ere * ‘i 1 £ fc ‘ pio ’’ made by the two blind
children, Law and Force. Agnosticism simply says
phenomena*”* nothia<r of what may be beyond
To everything beneath the sun there
cometh a last day. This reflection is theological
rather than philosophical. We could give a philo-
sophical turn to it if we tried, but wo re not in the
b““our now. It is when the butcher stops sup-
PjjS® that our intellect is in the full enjoyment of Its
st , ,Va°ilP*h 1 f al * P K )Wer ‘« And as ho saw us talking to
fetuart the other night, he says he is willing to
wait. A shrewd man is our butcher. He knows
there are billets iyiog around, and—. But what
set us to reflect theologically is that we are natur-
ally Riven that way. Wo know that there is sin iu
W^ d V and we own that in our little day we
Aim? behind-baud in giving it an odd
tiilf' 18 b er ?« ls a deadly interesting ques-
tion. But the question is a theological one, and is
immeasurably deep, dark, dilficuit, and mysteri-
T oBtora ’ A qulnas - Suarez, the late
and boats of other little minds,
worked at it with unsatisfactory results. It is lust
where it used to was in the very early days. But
'Th«+ a r e £ oin R to have it by the wool shortly.
Jbfts why we began as we did. The last day of
i Bat £? nd : Thomas Walker and David
Blair are to settle it this week in the Melbourne
Athenaeum. Thomas will prove that everything
is nothing, and David will prove that nothing is
everything. .At least, so they announce, it is to
a d o bate . between Freethought and Christianity.
«“ v ltttSS&SSf* ma "' h>,i dM *»"»'
Certain members of the Young Men’s
olatw B ni fh S ,frji a b°ii of Melbourne are notasso-
ciatmg in the Christian way they ought to do, and
eberished delusions is exp?odcd
rn< a n d fondly imagined that these hall-
niftrkOu Christiana Jived in a lons' ocncwi
b ,ft Jogging from latest advices, they do occasion-
ally have—in Melbourne, at any rate.—“ differ-
poces. According to the Dailv Telegraph (a
b°ly organ which understands all these little
matters), a Christian “ difference ” consists In strik-
ing a man over the back with a cane; for this is the
to the action of a Mr’. Woolcott, of
Ik knocking the dust out ot the coat
of Mr. Marsh, tbe secretary of this unsettled 4 \s~
soeiation. Such an incident, occurring among us
heathen, would be described as a '‘row;” that's
the difference.
JUS# A DIffERENCE.
The of the Y.M.C. are now, ’tis very
clear.
Mere worldly than they used to be: the other day*
we hear,
A certain Christian todk a cade and laid it oil—
alack!
Again, and even yet again, the Secretary’s back.
An act like this with sinful men wodld surely
mean a “ row,’ -
And so be plainly termed; but, then, it isn’t that,
somehow.
With members of the Y.M.C., who (here’s the holy
difference
’Twixt Christian folk and you and me) describe it
as a “ difference."
Those of us who were old enough in 1*59
to know our tables or spell through “Cassar,” will
never forget—till forgetfulness follows on decom-
position—the ecclesiastical tornado that swept
over England when the “ Origin of Species ”
modestly saw the There was not a struggling
curate looking forward to an incumbency, not a
thodogic 1 student struggling with Paley, but
contributed his crude observations to the general
screech. Poor Darwin—figuratively tarred and
feathered—passed by the small fry as a mastiff
does a rat-terrier, but—in the language of the P. R.
—“ cro?s-buttocked ”or •* chanceried ” the leaders
till they (also figuratively) howled for mercy. He
was about the ugliest customer they ever tackled,
and small blame to them if, in our day, they elect
to enjoy their incomes, marry their daughters
well, and steer clear of biology. But they have
done more. Many of them have come round to
Darwin’s views, and the Bishop of Melbourne (Dr.
Moorhouse) now claims him as a “ true believer.”
This is not so paradoxical as it appears, for, in a
lately published letter, the great naturalist says:
“ What my own views may be is a question of no
consequence to anyone but myself. But, as you
ask, I may state that my judgment often fluctu-
ates. Moreover, whether a man deserves to be
oilied a theist depends on the definition of the
term, which is much too large a subject for a
note. In my most extreme fluctuations I have
never been an atheist in the sense of denying the
existence of a God. I think that generally (and
more and more as I grow older), but not always,
an agnostic would bo more the correct de-
scription of my state of mind.”
Since gladiators hacked one another to
death in Home there has seldom been a more
ferocious combat than occurred a few weeks back
at Philadelphia. William Stahl, a young Western
man, claiming to be some of a fighter, said he
would not fear to meet any man living if he had a
club. Bl*ck Dallas, a powerful negro, hearing the
remark, took it up, and tho match was made.
There Was no ill-will between them ; they fought
for twelve dollars. A large room was secured ;
Stahl selected a heavy stick of smooth hickory,
and it was agreed he should only use it in his right
hand There was some disappointment when the
founds were fixed at one minute duration only,
with one minute rests ; but they were found quite
long enough. Toe negro's muscular development
was something phenomenal ; be was stripped to
the waist. They shook hands, and Stahl at once
commenced the battle by aiming a terrible blow
at his opponent's head. The negro partly
parried it, and the club glancing asido fell
with great force on his tftouider. Before the
Stick coUld be lifted for a second attack Black
Dallas seized Stahl's wrist and attempted to wrest
the stick from him, at the same time administering
heavy body blows on tho white man’s rite. The
struggle only lasted a moment, for the negro, with
a sudden wrench, bent Stahl’s arm back until it
seemed ready to crack, and then began pounding
him in tho taco with the free hand. Just as the
white man appeared ready to give up tho fight, the
minute was up and the fighters were dragged
apart. In the second round, Stahl whirled bis
olub so ferociously that the minute was within
ten seconds of expiring before the negro could get
near him. Stahl prodded him in the stomaeh,
making him grunt with pain and rage, as they re-
tired to their corners, Third round was a display
of fearful brutality. Sruhl began swinging his
stica as before, but the negro was too quick for
him, and got his long arms about his body. In this
position the white man was utterly help-
less. He feared to drop his weapon, and
his left arm was pinioned close to his side.
The negro, iluding he had the advantage, began to
show bis teeth iii a diabolicai grin. “ I’se strong, I
Is," he exclaimed, and then suddenly shiltiDg his
arms lower down, he began to squeeze. The pres-
sure was awful. Stahl s tongue protruded from
his mouth. His eyes seemed starting from their
sockets. The cords of his neck swelled out as
though about to burst. He wagged his head from
side to side and made one desperate effort to free
his left arm. It was loosened sufficiently to break
the negro’s frightful grip, and then he managed
to transfer the cane from his right to his left hand.
One end of it was placed under Dallas’ chin, and
with what remaining strength he had left Stahl
began to push. The darkey, unable to dodge or to
avoid having a hole punched in his neck, broke
away, and Stahl fell prone on his face. When
the seconds picked him up, tho blood was trick-
ling from his nose, When the minute’s rest had
expired, Stahl got up slowly and appeared totally
unable to go on. Whether this was a ruse, or
whether his strength returned momentarily, is a
question, but at any rate, when the black came
confidently (forward he received a blow, struck
with all the vicious strength of despair, fuil on
his forehead, another sledgehammer whack on his
jaw. and, before he could dodge, a third blow
grazed his arm and peeled the skin from his shin
bone, with ail his passions aroused, the black
sprang forward, and knocking down Stahl s guard
as though it did not exist, he again seized the un-
happy man around the stomach. Stahl evidently
knew what to expect, for he struggled desperately,
and apparently in terror, Before he got away the
black managed to give him one terrible hug, and
then unable to bear up longer he fainted. Not the
slightest attention was paid to rules of the prize
ring, but on conclusion of four rounds Dallas was
awarded tho 13 dollars. Both men were injured
for life,
A timely us© of Hop Bitters ■win keep a
Whole family in robust hoailti a year with but
ft little cost. Bead.
RELEEGION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I care na a fig—nor a floe,
For a’ ye’r cavthedrals and kirks!
The only releegion for me,
Is ane that’s set up wi’ gude works.
Ye may preach, reverend sirs, till ye’r toom,
Ye may rant till ye’r hoarse as a craw,
Ye may plav on ye’r organs till doom—
But yons no releegion, aval
The Almichty ye ettle tae please
Wi’ a’ ye’r devotion and prayers;
Tho’ ye spend di.y and nioht on yer knees,
My certy! it’s little He cares 1
Haud awa, wi' ye’r rantin’ and noise!
He heeds na, and needs na. ye’er praise;
If ye houp to see Heaven and its joys,
My advice is to alter ye’r ways.
Reloegious! if that ye wad be,
Gio ye r hearts and ye’r gudes to the poor—
Do good ilka day till ye dee,
And ye’r recompense then will be shure!
Your chawples, cawthedrals, and a’
The bigkirks ye set up in God’s name,
Tak’ them doon, ilka steeple and wa’,
And build wi’ them hooses to hame.
The millions ye or isb in the dens
O’ your cities sae fearfully vile!
Set them up in the fields and the glens,
Where round them bricht summers may smile.
Oh, Christ! what a warld this wad be
If men were unselfish and true;
Bach acting to each, just as He
Commanded, langsyne, they shood do!


TUTRNITURB SHOW ROOM
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O’Connell and Spring streets, Sydney.
Hall furniture, hat-stands, ?nd
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
TTiBRARY FURNITURE. CENTRE and SIDE
I A TABLES. BOOKCASES, SECRETAIRES,
READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
Drawing-room suites, in exquisite
taste, the very latest fashion ; well worthy of
inspection.
TTTTALL CABINETS for Choice China, &c„
VV VERY ELEGANT, just received. Bradley,
Newton, and Lamb.
TjIURNITURE.—THE LARGEST BTOCK IN
Jd THE COLONY. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, O’Connell-street.
MARBLE-TOP TABLES, on STRONG HAND-
SOME STANDS, for clubs, restaurants
smoking- rooms, &c.
BEDROOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feet
wardrobes, or with smaller wardrobes for single
rooms. Great variety. BRADLEY, tfEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets. Sydney.
IGHT-POUND BEDROOM SUITES.—The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
glass, and two chairs. The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
CHEAP FURNITURE—Whatnots, from 30s;
Walnut Loo Tables, from 90s; open Book-
cases, f ram 355; Chests Drawers, from 40s; Wash-
stands, from 10s 6d; Tables, from 7s 6d; Wardrobes,
from 80s; Dining Tables, from 30s; Cedar Chiffo-
niers, from 355; Cedar Sideboards, from 70s;
Kitchen Dressers, from 30s; Kitchen Tables from
10s; Folding Clothes Horses, from 7s 6d. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell and Spring
streets, Sydney.
V
jggg PIANOFORTE,
guaranteed sound,
strong, and durable, Trichord full
Coni pass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashton-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
Shelves, 85s. BRADLEY, NEAVTON, and LAMB.
O
,CCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished in
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c. i
CHIFFONNIER AYHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
O ’ Connell-street.
Easy occasional chairs, for
DRAWING-ROOM or BOUDOIR, elaborately
upholstered in the CHOICEST materials. STYLES
NEVER HITHERTO EXHIBITED IN SYDNEY.
PERFECT WORKS OF ART. Inspection invited.
Drawing-room occasional chairs
A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLES.
Prices, from 13s 6d.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
pensive.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, complete, 40 Guineas.
DINING-ROOM SUITE, comprising 5-FEET
EARLY ENGLISH SIDEBOARD, MAHOGANY
EXTENDING DINING TABLE, with patent
screw and two Laves : LARGE PIER GLASS,
COUCH, GENT.’S and LADY’S EASY CHAIRS,
and 6 CHAIRS, covered in Marone Leather, com-
plete, only 40 Guineas.
INING"
D
TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 30 feet.
S
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
JkußiSJ
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It tits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-snore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when folded. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only).
JARDINIERES, Parqueterie and Ormolu.
VERY ELEGANT items for Drawing-room.
XiIRAMEWORK for DRAWING-ROOM SUITES
Jj and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
RAMBWORK for DINING-ROOM FURNI-
TURK, Handsome and Massive, in _ Oak,
I,
r alnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB.
B
EDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black and brass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
EDDING.—AII descriptions at lowest rates.
!iEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
B:
BRADLEY
nell-street.
W
ASHSTANDS, with marble, 25s each. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20b; Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD-
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
ENTWOOD FURNITURE.—A very complete
Assortment; best make, est prices.
B
SOCIAL
As Petersham Is a nice progressive suburb,
the 0 wls met last week as usual. Notwithstanding
that dancing people hate the heat, the height or
the mercury didn’t stop the hoot. Ihe caloric
seemed to affect the members and the mercury
both alike—mado them rise to the occasion; for it
was one of the club's best efforts. Dr. iebbutt,
president (a position apparently given to the owl-
dest owl of the club), stepped to the porch pie-
ciselv- at eight o’clock, but the hoot didn t com-
mence till half-past, owing to some members
coming late. Woodpecker escorted Miss Whomes
to the piano, and her fantasia on Scotch Airs was
pleasing. The new owl, Pippo, gave the champion
song from “Populairo” in a populair manner.
Herr I-'rancik and a lady, on violin and piano,
plaved Do Beriot’s llfth air, and sdection Irom
” William Tell,” splendidly. Mr. B. Palmer s reci-
tation, “The Death Bridge of the Tay,” was, we
consider, the gem of the evening. Mr. A. Murray
made his first appearance, at the club's invitation,
and sang “Up with the Standard of England with
melodious spirit, the high notes exceedingly clear.
Mr. C. Cox also mado his maiden appearance
with the English concertina. His playing ot
“ The Bells" was capital, and be had to reappear
n"d give “Adieu.” Mrs. Wood and Miss Sheridan
Koed blended their voices tunefully in a duet from
’ Semirumide,” and a number of other recitations
end songs followed till halt-past 10. Some people
st the back attracted notice bv chattering so that
i ho chairman had to honour them with a moment s
attention. As they were notowls, they were most
likely parrots. Several ladies accompanied the
vocalists, and, assisted by a gentleman, also played
for the dancers. Midsummer dancing dotsn h
improve girls; their cheeks get crimson, and them
frizzes unfurled, and then they don’t look pretty.
Hut some were beautifully dressed. A newly-
married iady quite bore the honours m a
heliotrope broche rediugote and satin skirt
trimmed with lace. A pretty Balmain blonde wore
checked silk rediugote and plain silk skirt. A
IV tersham lady, whose husband was one ot
Sidney’s most famous bassos, wore rich bla. k
velvet, long train, and elbow sleeves, with very
tieap Maltese lace trimming. Another musical
1 i'ly was charming in black grenadine and iace,
w ii'h satin body; and a tasteful white lawn decked
with ivy was as nice as was a cream llama redin-
ame over a pleated skirt. Two Petersham sisters
wore black grenadine, with a flash of red sash and
croon satin respectively; and pink broche and
satin suited a young lady nicely A charmer
fostered her attractions with a neat garb of black
sitin and white lace. The daughter of a big
I iciory man wore pink satin ; a v ocalist, pink
I I roc ho and satin; and by 12 o’clock almost every-
l, >i y wore a general aspect of satisfaction,
especially as the refreshments were good and
convenient.
Some time ago, on his Academy being
completely renovated and beautitled, Mr. Charles
Hall gave a hall, hast Friday, his friends proffered
him a complimentary return. Tickets were high,
as it was determined to make the affair good, and
t'ie glassy floor was comfortably full. The dancing
hill is decorated in modern style, pale green
nri istic.illy varied in warm and cool tints, and set
off with classic flgures; a dado runs round the
walls, and ventilation and lighting are carefully
m udied. Mr. Frank Smith acted as M.C.—the only
wonder is that he is not an M.L.C. Ladies were
mostly attired in costumes light and airy. A
blonde from Bourke-street looked pretty in cream
mill’s cloth in narrow lace flounces from hem to
l, 0 ;t, and forget-me-nots. A very handsome dross
was worn by a Summer Hill favourite, olive greon
..I toman velvet top, chenille fringe trimming,
and skirt of surah satin. From Cumberland-
fdreet, a fine girl appeared in a ruby vel-
vet square cut bodice, let in with satin
and pink cords; and cream nun’s veiling and blue
satin also came from that part. Mrs. F. Smith
wore a iine corded black silk; Mrs. Charles Hall, a
becoming costume of pale blue satin andbroehe
top, with a lace-trimmed redingote; Mrs. R. John-
son, a rich brown bronze satin and moire, with
passementerie; the wife of the “veteran Nat,” a
black satin trimmed with a new shade of gi-ey
flowers about becoming fashionable. A Stanmore
brunette wore pale pink satin and cieam surah;
and also nice were pink satin and broche on a tall
dark girl; a cardinal satia let in with gold, low cut
bodice; a sombre black; a slate an t bine, &c. Mr.
Hall’s stringed band of six furnished excellent
music, aud the catei-ing upstairs was without a
lault, the wines and liqueui-s and their “stronger
brothers” being all good. Mr. R. N. Johnson, of
canary bird celebrity, engineered the affair, and
did it well.
* * *
Last week, in the Scots’ Church, Melbourne,
Mr John Dougharty (son of the well-known and
genial stock agent. Hon. J.G. Dougharty, of El-
wood) was married to tho youngest daughter of
the late Captain Lindsay, of Hobart. Six brides-
maids were Misses Telford, M'Pnerson, Pohlman,
Langlands, Dougharty, and Watson; the first pair
in pink, second in cream, and third in green—all
of surah silk. The bride’s dress is said to have
been the handsomest ever seen in that church,
it was imported from home, and was of white
satin brocade, opening in front to show a petti-
coat of satin covered with seed pearls, side drap-
ings of richest i-eal lace ; the bodiee was cut
square, tilled with lace, and bad a pearl-adorned
vest. A fashionable and numerous attendance
witnessed the wedding.
Melbourne is getting terribly high-toued,
and the vulgar habits of such people as Lord
Rosebery we particularly distasteful to its extra
cream-laid society. So it would seem, at any rate,
from a lady’s letter to the Hebai.d anentthe noble
Earl's visit to the Victoria Club meetiDg, at
Flemington Says this cultured female: “The
Earl of Rosebery might have set a better example
to the youths of Melbourne than to mount the
box of the Governor’s carriage on Saturday, when
leaving the racecourse, with a lighted cigar in his
mouth, notwithstanding the fact of two ladies in
his own rank of life seated behind him.” Now,
we shrewdly suspect that this lady’s ideas of “ ’igh
life in tho ‘hupper suckles ” are chiefly extracted
from sixpenny novels; but she is really very funny
when she draws special attention to the facts that
the ill-mannered aristocrat sported a lighted cigar,
and that the ladies of the party were in his own
rank of life. If the highly cultured one had hap-
pened to be a lady in " his own rank of life,” she
wouldn’t have felt so aggrieved over that cigar,
nor have written such awful twaddle.
* * *
No one can watch the book's of poems
lately issuing from the press without noticing
the tendency to picture fleshliness, and to minister
to voluptuous thought of the broadest kind.
Well, Swinburne gives a marvellous, luminous
touch to his rhapsodies; he hai genius, ltosetti
throws a veil of dainty delicacy over the amorous
passion of his lines. Oscar, the apostle of the
purely fleshly school, without the genius of the
other two, is full of nudities «nd revealments that
modesty gazes at through its lingers ; yet he has
written some quaint, pretty conceits. The horrors
of Kollinat we forgive, because ho winds into the
intricate recesses of the soul, and, though coirse,
is wonderfully curious and original. Hut these
men are all clever. A book more remarkable in
one way than any of theirs has issued from the
press m London. “Love and Music,” by Percy
Reeve, is more carnal, but not clever. It presents
love in a purely sensual aspect, with a coarse
shamelessness hardly equalled by any writer ; and
beauty as seen only by tho libertines eye. the
book is dedicated to “The Loveliest Living
Woman.” No clue is given, but as the author
“ writes up ” tho physical charms in detail of some
halt-dozen women, few would accept the dedica-
tion as an honour. One of these heroines he
addresses as “ Most exquisite among the splendid
few.” To another he audaciously says, “ Princess,
I care not what your toilet be.” To Ada, he rap-
turously cries, “lam contented to die, my darling
is s > white ’; an' 1 as he describes elaborately what
white portions principally please him, we are
1 ustifled in inferring that his carelessness as to her
toilet possibly led to its abolition altogether. Then
he addresses Venus, a lady
‘ Whose hair stings my heart’s blood,
Whose little biting teeth are God’s mercies beneath
The rose red lips,”
who has “a whole sweet body made of loveliness,”
pnd whoso “ twined lips confess ten heavens in one
kiss I” People who get these ideas shouldn’t print
them, 'i hey are not poetical. Whole pages of
“Love and Music” are full of heavens made of
women's limbs and clinging kisses and other Ma-
hometan forms of bliss-kisses equal to “ten
heavens.” The book is a wholly unnecessary pub-
lication.
• • ■
Last week a most interesting evening was
passed in the large hall of Randwick Asylum,
when a musical and elocutionary performance was
given in connection with the w aratah Band of
Hope, and prizes were presented by Mrs. Hardie,
Mayoress, to the children. Besides several hun-
dreds of these latter, there was an extra large
attendance of visitors, and, on the dais were
Messrs. Roseby, Graham, Davies, Alderson, and
others, including ladies. Mr. D. A. Thomas, the
Superintendent, occupied t-he chair until arrival
of the Mayor and Mayoress. Recitations and
songs were give \ by both girls and boys, and
several pianoforte selections exquisitely rendered
by a lady well known in Randwick for her beauti-
ful playing. One intelligent girl of some twelve
years old possessed a clear, flexible voice of good
Eower, and rarely sweet. Another girl seemed to
ave great musical facility; most of the singers
were indebted to her for their training, and she
well deserved the prize she gained. There was
nervousness in the manner of some of the reciters,
and room for more expression; but the pieces had
evidently been thoroughly learned, and the pro-
nunciation was romarkable for accuracy. Mrs.
Hardie presented a large number of prizes, and
there was a constant clatter of the juveniles’ feet
on to the platform, and off again with their
coveted books. The Mayor made a few apposite
remarks, and Mrs. Hardie promised to provide
prizes for the children next year. Visitors then
moved into another room, and. after refreshment
and conversation, fin illy moved off the premises.
* * *
To-night, Thursday, the grand Masonic
ball takes place in the new Hall, Castlereagh-
street. It is believed the floor will prove tirst-
class for dancing. Conveniences of all kinds are
provided, and the company will be a most dis-
tinguished one.
mm*
Invitation concerts (like most other gratis
entertainments) are generally well attended, and
the Beethoven Festival, held last Saturday after-
noon, at the Great Hall of the University, was no
exception to the usual rule, being numerously and
fashionably patronised. Long before 3 o’clock
nearly every seat was occupied, and many persons
were obliged to stand the whole time. It is doubt-
ful whether, under different circumstances, such
a large audience would have assembled —for other
high-class performances lately given in Sydney
were financial failures—but then, as one knows,
free admissions have a 4,'reat charm for most
minds, not to add pockets. The programme of
Saturday was rather long, and slightly dull here
and there, so that some folks departed early. The
organ cannot be pronounced either a beautiful or
perfect instrument, by any means ; its tones are
rough and harsh, and there is no volume of sound.
Those who are aoswerable for its selection
in London am to blame. The gem of the
concert was Beethoven’s “Pastorale Sym-
phony.” This glorious composition was beau-
tifully played by a fme orchestra chosen from the
best musicians here. The concerto in C. minor, as
performed by a pupil of Herr Kretsehmann, was,
on the whole, a creditable rendering, though
weak in parts. The vocal pieces were decidedly
inferior to the instrumental, and the song “ Ade-
laide” proved rather a disappointment, the voice
of the gentleman who essayed it being neither
fresh nor powerful enough for the exigencies of
the situation. The fair sex mustered in strong
numbers, and many pretty dresses were seen—in-
deed, quite a bewildering array of them met the
dazzled eye. White lawns and cream Indian
muslins were popular; while zephyr cloths, sateens,
and brocWs were übiquitous, and ihe redingote
and water-fall backs seemed first favourites.
Among thorn present were Sir Alfred Stephen,
Miss Stephen, in a costume of terracotta hue; Sir
George and Lady Allen, Lady Martin, Miss Q.
Eagar, in pale grey blue; Miss Dibbs, Miss Mac-
lean, the Misses Badham, Miss Garran, Sir P. A.
Jennings. Judge Faucett, Mr. Paul, tho Hon. John
Marks, Mrs. Marks in a splendid black ottoman
cord; Miss Marks, in dainty white; the Mayor, and
Mrs. Hardie in a sumptuous peacock brechA
• • •
The employes of the Pyrmont works of
the Colonial Sugar Refining Company held their
annual saccharine divertissement last Saturday
down the harbour. A great number of friends
accompanied them, an 4 the quiet decorum with
which the picnic passed off on the spot where once
very opposite scenes were the rule showed that
“refining” influences had been at work. As the
day was fine, sports were enjoyed, and amongst the
novelties were a race for “ old fogies,” am* a gift
distribution, in which everyone secured a prize of
some sort. Dancing went on till a well-contested
programme was exhausted. An til fresco lunch
was provided for visitors, when the usual toasts
were proposed. On return in the evening, the
festivity was kept up by dancing in the Company’s
wor»s at Pyrmont for several hours.
A bright birthday party occurred at
“ Mertonville,” Balmain, last week, when cards,
dancing, vocal and other music enriched the
hours. The singing of a well-known lawyer—an
amateur baritone—was a« good as always; and
the playing of a favourite Balmain pianiste very
clever. Over supper a few chGery words were
spoken, and Mr. Hancock, the host, was felici-
tated on the birthdays he had left behind. The
daughter of the house was charming in pink
llama, with sashband of black; a young Burwood
lady in white raiment sang and danced well; and
a fair Balmain girl in black with military collar
looked the essence of neatness At a late private
banquet in a Melbourne suburb there were twenty
courses; the ladies and gentlemen luxuriating in
four hours’eating and drinking. Heaven will be
quite a dull place to these people. ..To-morrow
night, Friday, the Bums Club will commemorate
Robbie’s birth by songs and dances in the Protes-
tant Hall Miss Nellie Veitch, whose splendid
voice has drawn notice to her elocutionary efforts
in Melbourne, is a pupil teacher in a Victorian
State school, and she comes from Ararat. It will
be remembered Miss Alice Rees came from Sta-
well in the same district Mr. T. D. M‘Kay
the great Travellers’ Friend on the American
routes, is at present staying at Petty’s ...
On Saturday night, Mr. W. L. Murdoch’s friends at
Cootamundra met to drink prosperity to him ere
his departure lor England. Mr. E. P. Barnes,
president of the local cricket club, proposed the
guest’s health; Mr. Pinkstone proposed “The
Australian Eleven.” Mr. Murdoch responded.
Mr. YV. L. Murdoch has entered into partnership
with Mr. H. A. O’Donnell (a local cricketer) as
solicitors, &c Mr. Naylor died atQueanbeyan on
the 15th instant, a respected resident of nearly j
half a century there Lady Rosebery gave £5O
to Melbourne Jewish charities —At Parkes, tine
now concert hall built—G rand bazaar at Paterson
to mark the completion of the School of Arts,
when the hall is finished—His Excellency the
Governor of Victoria co nes hither from Mel-
bourne to-day A very enjoyable party was
given at “ Bonera,” Petersham, on Friday; dancing
commenced at 8 30, and lasted till 3 ; nearly 50
couples present, and all enjoyed themselves The
eldest daughter of the hostess looked capital in
deep rose-pink llama. A pair of sisters Irom
Riley-street—one in cream and cardinal bows and
gold braid, the other in white and cardinal—looked
excellent. From Moore Park came a pietty
damsel in cream satin and cardinal body ;
and Petersham supplied some pretty girls, es-
pecially in terracotta, white, and pale blue—
There was a ball at Government House, Noumea,
on the 2nd January. Thirteen ladies present, but
it was raining a deluge, and there is only one cab.
Another ball on Feb. 7 th... A tall young lawyer,
who is one of the deadliest mashers the human
mind could conceive, is said to have placed mat-
ters on such a sure basis that want will cause him
no more anxiety.... The proverbial small bira
whispers that a reverend tenor singer, before the
month expires, will be united at a fashionable
church to a Darlinghurst young lady, somewhat
his junior.... Again, a governess well-known in
the family of a most eminent leg'ist, has consented
to share the fortunes of a widely-famed lasma-
nian sheep-breeder... It was remarked at the
Beethoven concert what a strong resemblance the
young Professor of Physiology boro to the por-
traits of Oscar Wilde... .This Saturday, there will
be several popular and fashionable places of public
resort. On the Association Ground, the Australian
Eleven play N.S.W. at cricket: at Kandwick the
Sydney Turf Club races will be six in number;
and the great Anniversary Kegatta will certainly
draw its thousands. There will also be athletic
sports on the pleasant park at the Parramatta
Exhibition ...On Friday last, Mrs. Barnett enter-
tained a good party in Wynyard-square, to mark
her eldest son’s return to Sydney. Dancing was
kept up all night, and many costumes were admir-
able: for instance, black silk and a solitary rose;
lavender silk, on a consistently quiet young lady;
and simple white, worn by a beautiful singer. Mr.
Huenerbein’s music was A 1; and, with a brief
morning rest, most of the party started for a
picnic at Manly early next day . Croydon I üblic
School is to be opened with a iiare-up on Monday,
the 28th. It is ODe of the roomiest and best bunt
edifices of the kind erected about Sydney. Ibe
Hon. George (the unseated) will do the official
work on the occasion, and the Premier will be
present with the district members, and other
notabilities. A handful of the local people, headed
bv Mayor Deakin. are arranging a big entertain-
ment for the youngsters. No suburb is more m
need of a good Public school than Croydon.
SOCIAL FIXTURES.
Masonic Ball (Castlereagb-st.) Jan. 24.
Masonic Banquet - - • ,5* S'
Cricket Match (Association Ground)... .Jan. 20, J>.
Rand wick Races. J |*n 2b.
Anniversary Regatta. ;, a u
Drapers’ Annual Picnic March b.
Dear Belle,—Forgive me for neglecting to
write to you lately,but I promise to amend my ways
in future— so there, now ! One of the events last
week was Herr Kretschmann’s Concert, which was
held at the University. The big room was com-
fortably filled, and the music was splendid. A
great drawback to the concerts held there is the
terrible scraping of the chairs on the tesselated
floor, which goes on without ceasing until every-
body is seated. To anybody possessing nerves it is
dreadlul. Miss Mabel Allen, daughter of Sir
George Wigram Allen, and a pupil of Herr
Kretschmann’s, played splendidly. I thought her
hands pranced ,i ust a little bit too much, but that
will be toned down as she grows older, and after
all it’s a good fault, as it gives more freed9tn of
touch. She looked so pretty, too, in a simple
cream dress, loose on her slender little figure, with
hat and feathers to match, and hair down her back,
and was perfectly self-possessed throughout the
long concert. As she left the platform she was
presented with a beautiful bouquet by a tiny
admirer. Another favourite pupil of Herr
Kretschmann’s was a Master Smith, of East Mait-
land, who violined one of De Beriot’s concertos
with such brilliancy and taste that someday, unless
I am very much mistaken, he will be heard of
again. Such a memory, too 1 Although his
solo lasted over fifteen minutes, he did not
hesitate over a single bar or phrase. Madame
Merz looked very neat in a gray dress,
and a becoming brown straw bonnet, long brown
gloves. 1 can’t tell you what Madame Marius
wore, for I only saw her head, but her bonnet was
composed of fine soft cream lace and peach pink
roses. Two sisters from Ashfield looked their
verv best in slate blue homespun, trimmed with
small checked material of same colour. One wore
a Henri Deux hat, white straw with black velvet
and white plumes for trimming, the other a small
princesse bonnet. The Henri Deux hats are being
worn more than ever; in fact, they are becoming
quite common. The objection to them is that
one must either have the hair gathered up from
the neck, or cut quite close to the head, or else
look ridiculous.
Fancy, I only saw one lake-colour dress at the
concert on Saturday. It was composed of the very
finest cashmere, the skirt kilted at the waist, and
over all the inevitable redingote; hat, plumes,
gloves, and parasol were all the same colour, and
vou may be sure the tout ewscmhlc was quite out
of the common. Miss Moss wore black corded
silk and small cream bonnet. Whites were numer-
ous, although the evening turned out quite chilly.
Miss May Wilshire gave a concert in the Ashfield
School of Arts, last week, for the benefit of the
Infants’ Home. I was sorry to see it so badly
patronised, the hall being barely half filled. Miss
Wilshire worked hard throughout the concert—
rather too hard, in fact; for, besides playing
several solos, she had the lions share of the ac-
companying, which was too bad. Mrs. Foster sang
very sweetly. Miss Bull also gave two solos, but
seemed glad when each was accomplished. The
piano and organ duet played by the Misses AVilsbire
was much applauded. A beautiful dress was worn
bv Mrs. Seaward: a rich black silk, the body of
which was almost covered with black bugle beads
worked in star pattern ; loops of broad cardinal
satin ribbon adorned the skirt, and the same colour
was worn in the hair, combined with small white
roses. The Misses Bull wore pale blue satin
trimmed with white beaded lace. A white lawn
with gold zone was neat.
Some Block dresses were rather good this week.
I saw two sisters with sulphur-coloured skirts,
over which one wore redingote of bottle-green
velvet, and the other ruby-each having hat and
plumes to match. Peach pink is the favourite
colour just now, but I don’t care for it for walking
dresses—it is too glaring. Golden brown is also in
vogue.
Don’t you think the way they make our watch-
pockets now, inside the body of the dresses, very
stupid? I, ior my part, prefir the chatelaines,
although they do seem rather unsafe. I don’t
know whether you have any or not.
They are made to hook into a button-hole which
is made in the dress, instead of a watch-pocket;
the watch is attached to the chatelaine, and is
allowed to hang uncovered. You will find it
strange when first you come to wear one, but will
soon become used to it. I have only seen one or
two woi n as yet, so they arc by no means common.
Jsow, I know you will want me to find out where
you can purchase the watch chatelaines; but I
only remember to have seen them in one window,
and that was at the Oriental Gold Company s, in
George-street, where thoy seem to have all the
latest novelties in the jewellery line.
I will tell you something of the dresses worn at
Theatres, in tnv next. So now good-bye.
Yours, MAB.


p
ÜBLIC NOTICE.
J. TURNER ROBINSON k CO.’S
TAILORING BUSINESS,
E 8 T A BL I S H E D 1864,
late 483 and 484,
REMOVED TO
478 GEORGE STREET
▼iz.,
NEXT DOOR BUT ONE,
Ob. TWO DOORS NORTH OF OLD SHO?
Finest cigarettes, finest cigarettes
ARE
vanity fair vanity fair
„ VANITY FAIR VANITY FAIR,
Manufactured by W. S. KIMBALL and CO.,
Rochester, U.S.A.
EVERY
HAN
SHOULD
READ
Dr. Marstog’s New
Describing how sufferer- from
Nervous and Physical Debility,
Mental Decay and all disorders
resulting from Excesses, Indis-
cretions or Overwork, are per-
manently Cured
Without Stomach Medicines.
irsaa, NRRTOrS, AND MPOTBNT
■BN RKSTORBI) TO
VIGOR, HEALTH & MANHOOD
Consultation with Physician
and Book FREE. A.ddreas—
Marston Remedy Co.,
73 ELIZABETH ST., 87DNK7.
Wa Ha ARIELL & COa’S
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuit*, compris-
ing: a variety of 12 kindB;-Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour
Treade and Golden Syrip, in aH sfze tins
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MlLLS.—Superior Victorian Oat-
meal. Peart Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in
oOib. bags.
8 CO.’S, prize assorted Con-
A. M. Hunt and Co.’s prize Baking Powders, in y,
and lib tins; R. Whittington and Co.’s prime
York Hams, Currants, Figs, Paper Bags, and
General Provisions ; Victoria Lion Preserving
Company s superior assorted Jams ; Scandina-
vian Condensed Milk—Gold Medal Brand,
343 and 346 KENT-STREET,
Near King-street, Sydney.
JpiRST-CLASS HOTEL FOR SALE.
For SALE, the EEASR of the WTLCANNIA
HOTEL (betterknown as Felgate’s Hotel), situated
at Wilcannia, on the River Darling. New South
aS-story stone building, erected in 1879. All the
buildings are in thorough repair, and well found
in every repuisite ; this being the best and only 2-
story hotel in the town, it commands a verv large
business. The hotel contains 60 rooms, including
billiard-room, bathrooms, &c., &c.; also goodeeller-
saltyardsA'* 8 stable accomm odation, loose boxes,
For full particulars apply to
FRE W WRIgRt- and CO., Willcannia
D. and J. FOWLER, Adelaide
C. and T J- LUSH Fhnders-lane, Melbourne
C. J. BUCKLAND, Exchange, Sydney.
At Horderns
for the
HOT WEATHER.
Nice Cool Dark Green
VERANDAH BLINDS,
70 Cases just opened,
In Three Sizes. Iri‘ Three Sizes.
First Size,
For Cottage Verandahs.
Second Size,
For Terrace Houses’ Balconies and
Verandahs.
Third Size,
For Mansions.
These BLINDS are precisely the same
as we supply to the Government of
New South Wales, and we charge you
the same rates.
COOL,
STRONG,
EASILY FITTED,
and
VERY REASONABLE.
N.B.—We should not be the successful
tenderers to our paternal Government
if we were not cheaper than anyone
else.
VISIT US
for
THESE NEW BLINDS.
HORDERN BROTHERS,
211, PITT-STREET.
BE SURE TO COME TO-DAY
TO PITT-STREET.
SOMETHING VERY SPECIAL
for you
IN OUR WINDOWS.
HORDERNS’, in Pitt-street.
R
EMEM B E R, RE M EMBER.
REMEMBER
that
HORDERN’S, in PITT-STREET,
are the
SUCCESSFUL CONTRACTORS
for
CARPETS and DRAPERY
to the
GOVERNMENT of N.S. WALES.
Hordern's,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordern's,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordarn's,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordern's,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
Hordern’s,
MORAL-
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
in Pitt-street,
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell cheapest
sell oheapest
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 15th January, 1884.
FRESH TENDERS FOR RNLARGEMENT OF
CLASSROOM.
FRESH TENDERS are invited for the Enlarge-
.“snt °f the Classroom of the Druitt Town
•Public School.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney,
Tenders, endorsed “ Fresh Tender for Enlarge-
ment of Classroom, Druitt Town Public School,”
must be lodged with the Acting Under-Secretary,
Department of Publio Instruction, at or before
10 o clock a.m., on Wednesday, 6th February, 1884.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, 32nd January, 1884.
Tenders for public works and sup-
• —TENDERS are invited for the fol-
lowing Public Works and Supplies. For full parti-
culars see Government Gazette, a file of which
is kept at every Post Office in the colony.
Tenderers may be in attendance when the tenders
are opened, and the name of the successful
tenderer will be announced, if possible, before the
duties of the Board have terminated.
No tender will be taken into consideration un-
less the terms of the notice are strictly complied
with.
The Government does not bind itself to accept
the lowest or any tender.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 9th January, 1884.
TENDERS FOR SCHOOL BELLS.
TENDERS are invited for a supply of Bells re-
quired for Public Schools under this Depart-
ment for a term of three years.
Plans and Specifications may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
r .3,? n , ( ? er8 ’ endorsed “Tender for supply of School
Bells, must be lodged with the Acting Under-
secretary, Department of Public Instruction.
FebruaryflSSl 1 . 0 ° Cl °° k a ' m ” 0n Frlda y> thG 29th
The Minister doe* not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
G. H. REID.
F. A. WRIGHT.
!3?“ Please cut this out and read carefully, as it
will not appear again.
Day of Drawing positively fixed for
FRIDAY, 14th MARCH.
SECOND PROSPECTUS,
with additions and business done to date.
UPWARDS OF 9000 TICKETS SOLD.
First Prize <BOOO, for £l.
£15,000 Worth
OJf
Freehold Properties
To be disposed of by subscription on the Art
Union principle.
The lots offered are the following value :
£BOOO, £3OOO, £2OOO, £BOO, £4OO, £l5O, 2 at £l2O
1 at £B5, 3 at £75, 4 at £25.
A certainty of a Fortune to some one. A splendid
provision for the future.
15,000 SUBSCRIBERS AT £1 EACH.
/imH t< T~ Alre f 3y upwards of 9000 have been sold
(10th January), and now that the day is fixed, it is
Qna®X ed tbat ln a fortnight hence ail will be sold
and at a premium, If the tickets are ail taken up
Finlav 18 re . CGI Y ed ’ the agents (Messrs,
return “5t C °- ) Ullran tec to return the money by
The only Art Union of this kind that guarantees the
day of Drawing, 1-ith March.
ay i D? e R?t may be filled up, so write for
w?t k h e h encloSlu , g tet d the moment you have read,
with stamp and exchange.
Ist Prize, £8000.—“ Hardwicke Estate,’’ Yass, N.S.
" al ® s > 3700 acres, well watered, about .000 acres
cultivation paddocks; sdtuate on the Yass
™VL? r ’ muT 0 * 1 it has H frontage of about IV>
mile. The homestead is about 3 miles from the
to^r 0 !u YaBB ’ which is connected with Sydnev
and Melbourne by rail. 3
« Z w £3 000.-Farm, 800 Acres, near Gunning,
_ . N.S.W., and close to railway. ’
3rd bum’ ±,3000 ~“ 8t * Kilda Douse,” city of Goul-
4th Prize, £Boo.— Two-storied House in C’lifford-
street, Goulburn, ten minutes’ walk from Rail-
way Station.
sth Prize, £400.-Splendid Half-acre Allotment of
Land in Bourke-street. near the R.C. Orphan-
age, with cottage at present rented for £3l its
per annum,
6th Prize, £l5O.- Improved Farm, 32 Acres, close
to ijrunnin*.
ith Prize, £l2o.—Choice Building Site in Citi.en-
street, Goulburn, overlooking the well-known
depth'of* 77 feet***’” 41 f6et tronta g e > with a
Bth Prize, £l2o.—Another Excellent Allotment in
Citizen street, at the rear of “St. Kilda House,’*
and facing Balmoral House;” 51 feet front
age, by a depth of 77 feet; divided from 7th
Prize, by a 20-feet bm .
30 res, near Gunning.
10th Prize, £is.—Allotment of Land at North Goul-
burn; yk acre.
Hth Prize, £7s—Allotment of Land at North Goul-
burn; J 4 acre.
12th Prize, £7s.—Allotment of Land at North Goul-
burn; y t \ acre.
13th^Prize^£25^— Half-acre Allotment in the Town
Allotment in the Town
15th of G!unning^ HalE ’ aCre A,lotment ln the Town
16th^Prize^ £25.—Half-acre Allotment in the Town
The following gentlemen have consented to act
, _ „ as a Committee:—
t ?• ® aanon * M.L.A., Goulburn
3 °bn Badgery, Esq., Suttcn Forest
Esq., Solicitor, Goulburn
K. C. Cooper, Esq., Willeioo, Lake George
John Davidson, Esq.. Solicitor, Goulburn
. . Emanuel, Esq., J.P., Goulburn
is. Meyer, Esq., J.P., Goulburn.
wui teke place in the Mechanics*
rnu ?° i b^ rn ’ ln th ‘ 3 Presence of the com-
mittee and will be open to the shareholders. The
Dra wmg will be published in the
Sydney Morning Herald, Sydney Mail, and
Town and Country Joukn\l.
of Properties will be conveyed to the suo-
drawers free of cost, and possession given
as soon as the tr infers are completed. All the pro-
K S m a a r , C freehold, with approved titles, and the
Deeds may be inspected at anytime on application.
folding Subscribers must forward their names
and address by letter with Post-office order or
for rep ly^ad dressed ad ded and stamp
FINLAY AND CO.,
Land Agents, Belmorc-square, Goulburn,
N. S. WALES.
Finlay and Co., Goulburn, at the request of John
Bands, Esq., sole proprietor of the above Valuable
Properties, have undertaken as his agents to bring
this solid and genuine Investment under the “ Art
I nion 1 rmciple ” to a successful termination. The
inducement tor accepting this special agency under
the above programme, ia a knowledge tint the
, value f° r the Prizes named,
and that Mr. bands has unreservedly placed the
matter with them, in so far as guaranteeing the
day ot drawing, which will positively take place
as announced in the presence of the influential
committee named on Friday, 14th March, and will
be open to shareholders.
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
!W ©"W Crpe-ri
LONDON AND PARIS IN SYDNEY.
NEW ENTERPRISE AT
C.A^ r T I T^T^ ,y
IMPORTER & GENERAL DRAPER
t 93 and 195 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’
r KID GLOVE DEPAETMEKrT
G^rffioucf'Honor?Proftssi^nlrkidGlove^ Gi* V* V*”? ’ fr ? m Pllris - decorated
the steamer Potosi. formerly in charge of the well-known Kni rw® tf nd ’ J ust arrived from Paris by
Pans, now Kid Glove Department manager at W w PATRp e .i ) ?o n f T of the Is ™ Marchl,
pan- of Kid Gloves sold warranted a pellet 195 Pitt-strbkt.
nuf E uf n,r air °l K ? d G i oves 80IU warranted a perfect fit
out in the professional continental manner and stvle r~_;r
advantage to have their Kid Gloves fitted to the hands at tlm Paris
m- ' p : v/. , ±t}iJ A-STRE-KT.
?lair PanB /i K,d G , love Department is fitted
Ladic- and gentlemen will find it. to their
KID GLOY'E DEPARTMENT
£}d Gloves fitted to perfection
Kid Gloves fitted in two minutes at the counter
Kid Gloves warranted a perfect fit
Kid Gloves from 2 to 30 buttons
Kid Gloves of all descriptions in the latest style
Kid G oves, Mousquetaire style
K d G oves, Gauntlet style
K d Gloves. Sarah Bernhardt stvle
‘ 1 k and I,lsle Thread Gloves, Lace Mjtts
Pi ices guaranteed th 6 lowest in tho citv Thp lnrirocf ,
Geismahdo, Kid Glove Department manager F?]nch M J> E
German spoken at the Paris Kid Glove Depa&ent! ’ FlemiBh> Dutch ’ rtnd
W. W. CATER, Importer and General Draper
193 and 195 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY.
emaekable art treasures.
HIGHLY IMPORTANT SALE BY PUBLIC
AUCTION,
at the
AUSTRALIAN SALE ROOMS,
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS,
on
TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, JAN. 29 and 30,
at 11 a.m., of the whole of
Mr. C. P. B. ALSOP’S
VERY CHOICE AND VALUABLE COLLECTION
of
Oil Paintings,
Water Colours,
Etchings,
Sepia Drawings,
Mezzo Tints,
Proof Engravings,
&C., &C.,
THE RESULT OF MANY YEARS’ COLLECTING
The long catalogue of subjects leaves open a
wide range ot choice, so that no difficulty need he
expei lenced in gratifying each one's taste.
ssas’«»sas." soknes
SCENES and PLACID WATER
ySPiS,
VERF FINE HISTORICAL PAINTINGS. a
Also,
GALLERY OIL PAINTING
ra/MWHf W w£& I to^MroS5 o "**s
most truthful likeness. A a
Gallery, Town Hall, or any other public building.
SPLENDID GALLERY OIL PAINTING pap
of DEVON
The Original of
cost £lO,OOO.
“ of ? reams an d Stories
That life is not wearied of yet.”
The subject of this famous picture has possibly
been more thought about, talked aboCt and
ab ° Ut tlmn any other ever Placed-upon
PICTUKK 1 h hVa?, T ACTUALLY THE STOLEN
irit/i. u Kk, but a /etc simile of it. “An amtle Heft
in twain are not more like than are we two.” * “
EVERYBODY SHOULD uri? Tnuai?
p JCTURES. UNnOUBTED1 Y TFIE GRANDEST
and MOST VALUABLE COLLECTION FVfr
thele E c D olonie£ ÜBLIc competition IN
S Arctiom eVer haVC bGen °® cre d for
NO RESERVE
ON A
the sale and
confidence.
the fullest
TO CONNOISSEURS. COLLECTORS np Pirvrn
IBS, SCHOOLS OF ART ANDDFSraWr?
TURE DEALERS, AND OTHER°f IGN ’ W<
B 1
► RADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB have bee
favoured with instructions from Mr C P r
Alsop to sell by Public Auction nf + l • * x>* **
S--- spiff ssgftn
The WHOLE of his MAGNTETPemti
rD COLLECTION of OIL PAINT
WATER COLOURS, ETCHINGS
£EPIA DRAWINGS. MEZZO TINTS
PROOF ENGRAVINGS, TINTis -
OPEN TO PUBLIC INSPECTION
on
THURSDAY 24th INSTANT, and on Following
Days, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. K
I3F" CATALOGUES OBTAINART.p aa’ hhd
ROOMS OF THE AUCTIONEERS sprtmy2^MH
O’CONNELL STREET?: SYDNEY ’ SIRINQ und
£8?“ CATALOGUES FORWARDED Tn a mat
agS&gPI&BEP* ° H ON
TELEGRAMS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
NTERCOLONIAL JUVENILE INDUSTRtat
. EXHIBITION, PARRAMATTA, 1883. AL
THE OPENING CEREMONY
will be performed by
HIB EXCELLENCY LORD AUGUSTUS LOFTUB
at 2.30 p.m., on
WEDNESDAY, 19th DECEMBER.
The OPENING CANTATA will be sudit hv .
Chorus of 600 Public School Children? Sedhv
Mr - J - Moon - M °- "
Conductor—Herr Hugo Alpin.
n£P,?^ al 4 rains t 0 Park Platform on Exhibition
Ground. Excursion rates from all statirma
eial concession to children. stations. Spe-
Arrangements have been made with Mr r c
/'™ er t ett to run additional steamers/as weli as
p T o e hniiding will, by the kind permission of Mr
e E IeSVl C c r fiS. el ' t bC ' leb ' ed lh = •v™“fw , f, r h
evening, Is. the openin& c «remony, 2s. 6d.; in
CHAS. E. ROWLING,
Hon. See.
NMFPmr C, that a SPECIAL
MLETING, of the Metropolitan Licensing
uourt will be holden at the Central Pnii™
on TUESDAY, the ?9th Ja nu f?y nes for
th° purpose ot hearing applications for ltfne’wals
of Publicans’ and other Licenses, and for the ion
sideration ol any other business that e >'
legally brought before the said Court!* 1 ybe
C. DELOHEItY,
n . , „ „ CJerk of Petty Sessions,
Central Police Office,
15th January, 1884,


To practice upon the credulity of the pub-
lic to the prejudice of its health, is the worst form
of charlatanry. This is again being attempted by
scampish vendors of bad liquor, flavoured with
some cheap drug. and asserted to be similar to or
the same as Wolfe's Schnapps.
When the organs of secretion become in-
active by reason of a cold or other cause, the in-
flammatory material should be removed and
healthy action restored. Ayer’s Pills accomplish
tills quickly, safely, and surely. Much serious
sickness and suffering might be prevented by
promptly correcting Much derangements wnicn
often develop into settled disease.
Til MIL FRESE’S HAMBURG- TEA
THE GREAT GERMAN FAMILY MEDICINE.
RELIABLE, SIMPLE, EFFECTUAL.
This well-known Tea has proved itself to be a
most certain and efficacious Remedy for such
diseases as Sudden and Severe Calds, Coughs,
Fevers and Ague, Asthma. Phthisis, Headache,
Bowels, Kidney, and Liver Complaints, the Piles,
Congestion, &c.. caused by an impure abate, or a
superfluity of blood. Its use removes Serofula,
Cutaneous Eruptions, Pimples on the Face,
Blotches, Boils, Rheumatic Pams, and Pains in the
Bones and Joints. It is a preventive against con-
tagion, and destroys inhaled Miasmatic and Con-
tagious Vapours. It purifies the Blood, cleanses
the Stomach and Bowels, and gives to the whole
system a healthy, easy tone. It opens the bowels
in a mild and certain way. It works on the system
generally, causing little or no discomfort. It will
prevent almost anv disease if used at ieast once a
month. It restores the appetite, it removes the
distress caused by eating hearty food or overload-
ing the stomach, and will be found effectual as a
Family Remedy where a simple purgative only is
needed.
NO FAMILY SHOULD BE WITHOUT IT. Full
directions in English, French, Bpauish, and Ger-
man with every package. Sold by all chemists,
storekeepers, and medicine dealers throughout
the colonies at ONE SHILLING apacket. hole-
sale Depot for New South WaIes—ELLIOT T
BROTHERS, Sydney.
I HAD SALT RHEUM
■por seventeen years. I had it on my head
face, neck, arms, and legs. I was not able
to walk, only on my hands and knees, for
one year. I have not been able to help myself
for eight years. I tried hundreds of remedies;
not one had the least effect. The doctors said my
case was incurable. So ray parents tried every-
thing that came along. I saw your advertisement,
and concluded to try Cuticuba Remedies. The
Cuticura brought the humour to the surface, to
my skin. It would drop oif as it came out, until
now lam entirely well. All I can say is, 1 thank
you most heartily for my cure. Any person who
thinks this letter a fraud, let them write or come
and see me, and iind out fur themselves.
WILL MCDONALD, *_
"'>W, Deaf born St., Chicago, Ill.jfl
Political
Points
The idea of disbanding the Permanent
Artillery Force because It has been mismanaged is
quire a Buctaananian ono. We hope Parliament
will not assent to anything of the kind. If David
had sujrffeBt.ed the disbandment of the toin-
mander-ia Chief, now
One-hnlf the people in the United States
are said to be encased in agriculture, and the
value of the agricultural interest is estimated to
be equal to that of all other pursuits combined.
What a contrast, this to th? state of affairs in New
South Wales 1 D'ye hear, Frec-selection Jack ?
The new Criminal Act works splendidly.
At 'l'amworth a sober man deliberately robbed a
tipsy man, and got two years. At the same time a
drunken man who, In his madness, annexed a
saddled horse from another, got three years. No
wonder the Judge said it was out of bis power
to meet out due justice.
Mr. Spruce Smith told the open-mouth
Guudageoso electors that the members of the pre-
sent Ministry are all men of means, but the Parkes
combination was composed of the meanest of
men. “ For several years." continued the orator,
" the Parkes gaug had no way of obtaining a
livelihood except by pursuing politic*; they were
simply men of straw, and came under certain
provisions of the Vagrant Act.” As Dogberry
would say, Write down—Sir Hal a vagrant. w hy,
this is flat perjury to call a live Knight-a vagrant.
At the last general election in a Northern
town, a bush “spouter” was by a certain clique
put up for member, and, of course, ‘ blued' his
Forty “quid,” or rather those of his supporters.
Shortly afterwards, a Ministerial visit took place.
Rushing up to the Minister for Education as he
alighted from the rail way car liage, the ex-candi-
date seized his hand, which, vigorously shaking,
be exclaimed : “ I did my best to get in. No go,
though, this time ; but, you b ?t, I’ll be in with you
before long.” Calmly turning to the Minister lor
Mines, who was at his side, G. H. whispered :
“ Who the deuce is hs? But, never uiind, J believe
myself his ‘ trout’ will carry him in some day.’
A memorial stone raised at Balmoral some
ten years ago to the Prince Consort bore the Apo-
calyptic inscription: "Ho being made perfect a
abort time fulfilled a long time; for his soul pleased
the Lord, therefore hasted He to take him away
from among 1 the wicked.” This was a little rough
on Scotchmen, so Dr. Candlish, the great Free
Church leader, said that he regarded it ‘ with the
deopestsorrow, if it is the Queen who is responsible,
with indignation whoever else it may be.’ there
is a fine aroma of courtly casuistry In this— sorrow
If the Sovereign offended, indig naW in towards any
outsider. “ Oh, ye priests, ye priests 1” as old lom
Paine said. Tom said a lot more that we have for-
gotten*
That tenant farmers and cotters can lie
happy and prosperous when fairly treated, was
clearly shown on the estates of old Lord Panmure,
father of Fox Maule. This eccentric old noble-
man gave bis tenants life leases of their farms at
fair rentals, which were very low in comparison
with the extortionate rents on neighbouring es-
tates. The small farmers and eotteis of Glen Lsk
(in Forfarshire) were, in consequence, well led,
well housed, and extremely comfortable in every
way. Poverty was altogether unknown In the
district. If a man met with accident or misfor-
tune, his neighbours were all in such easy circum-
stances that they soon set him on his leet again.
When Maule succeeded, and tried to make
innovations in the estate, th« tenants could afford
to snap their lingers at him, and tell him they
were as well off as he was—they had a life interest
in the property, and he had no more.
Mr. shortly submit, for re-
lection by the Legislative Assembly, a resolution
that the practice of the English Government of
conferring titles upon any of the people of this
country is inconsistent with the spirit or our
democratic institutions and ought to be discon-
tinued. This resolution is all wrong. In the first
place, our institutions are not democratic, the
spirit of our people is democratic, hut our insti-
tutions are monarchical, or aristocratic, so long as
we have a Sovereign or a Government House. In
the second place, although the design ot the Eng-
lish Government mav be antagonistic to demo-
cratic sentiment, thtir pin dice bat been distinctly
favourable to it. A few more titles conferred as
they have been in the past, and the whole business
will become a sort of farce, in which the cold-
water interest and the rum interest will alternately
take leading parts.
This is a Free Trade colony. Make no
mistake about that lot. And yet, as a matter of
fact, cast iron pipes made from colonial ores are
carried on our railways for Id. per mile, but im-
ported pipes are charged at the rate of jd. the
extremely protected “ Cabbairo Garden could
scarcely uo more than this. Another absurdity in
the way of our ruilway freights is that while the
public have their eoal carried at the rate of Id
per ton per mile, for 35 mile' and not exceeding
55 miles, still the Government generously pays sd.
for carrying thews over tne same distance. Ibis
is simply throwing dust in the eyes oi an unsus-
pee'ing public by creating a revenue which the
legitimate trallic of the colony tails to
All this was pointed out by Mr. Whitton in 18.7.
In those days. Sir John, of Cloveiy, sat m the
Premier's chair, and a Lackey ruled the Works.
So if came to pass that no more notice was taken
of the Chief Engineer s report than if it was a
Gospel tract or a Nooze leader.
A “Socialist” procession, carrying a black
liag on which “starvation ” was inscribed, was not
allowed to approach Guilihall while the Lord
Mayor and his guests were feeding. They were
known to be "Socialist” from the fact that most
of them were wasted with hunger and some carried
placards on which was written : ‘Many who will
partake of this night’s feast have t»«ened and
grown rich out, of the rents of the filthy slums
which disgrace this city. Worse housed than the
beasts of the field, starving and wretched, our
poverty dealt with as a crime, numbers ot our
class have been done to death within the work-
house and prison walls.” Many of our Sydney and
Melbourne friends w iose incomes are derived
from similar sources will agree with us in thinking
that a caval-y charge or a fusillade of breech-
loaders fs tim proper thing for those whining
tatterdemalions who have not common decency
enough to starve in silence while those who batten
on their misery are gorging in Guildhall.
Woman Items
There are nearly 19,000 more marriageable
young women then men in Victoria. The only
outlook is old maidism or Mormonism.
A young student says the reason that girls
cannot play lawn tennis as well as men is because
ft girl's ribs axe too small, her scapula too thin, her
clavicle too short, and her triceps extensor muscle
too large to allow of the girl being active. Then
there's the trifling circumstance that the girl
generally shuts her eyes when she sees the ball
coming.
A young R.C. damsel up Cootamundra
way is indignant—righteously, we think—at get
ting the sack from the choir of her church for
assistance given bv her at a concert in aid of the
Anglican church in the neighbourhood. What ap-
pears to intestify her indignation is the fact that
some other damsels belonging 1 to the R.C. choir
assisted at a Presbyterian bazaar, and escaped
sacerdotal censure. She should remember that
one person can steal a horse with impunity, while
another is hanged for looking over a hedge.
Down the South Coast, at holiday times,
(he favourite outings are riding parties. it Now,
colonial girls arc not much 41 on the walk, but
they can rid*; and at one of these outings an
adorable lady having been left for a moment by
her cavaiier, her charger bolted. She screamed.
He was bound for “ the sea, the open sea ! and if
he’d once got there at the pace ha was going, they d
hive had to charter a yacht to capture him.
While a seoro of young men looked helpless on,
and her own Adolphus got o » his km-cs to pray
(thit being easier and safer than anything else), a
THAT SMALL BOT AGAIN.
L ENFANT TERRIBLE to nervous admirer of his sister: “I say, Mr. Blusher, is there
anything the matter with your foot?"
ADMIBELL: "No. Johony. What maken you ask such a funny question?"
L'E.T." "Because sister Lucy says you're always putting your foot in it."
And then a h Disafence fell on the family oirole, while Mr. Blusher longed to put his
foot out of it.
horse and rider shot out from the crowd TTrged
f o racinip speed, pell-mell over rocks iinu ruso s,
the punutar prad with a lighter weight gained
yard by yard, and just as tt o spray dashed in their
faces they reached the iiyer. whica still refu ed to
be pulled un, and by sheer jockeying headed him
right round and up hill again. The plucky pur-
suer was a colonial girl. The adorab.e l&dywas
very severe on her cavalier who had remained to
pray.”
Lately we have taken to the valuable
study of mind-reading, and having occasion to
enter a certain fashionable church (to escape the
rain), uot long ago, we lixed on to the mind ot a
gorgeously dressed xady in front and found her
thoughts ran as follows:-”Oh heavens ! that
dreary old dean again. Sorry I came. Wonder
who that fellow is with the Simpson girls. Nearly
time they hooked somebody. Well, l declare, if old
Mrs. Jenkins hasn’t got a crinolette as big a 9 a
clothes basket. Wish this old fool’d dry up, and
blow away. Wonder how Verdi ’ll look as the
Count di Luna. How that Tallerman girl does lace
to be sure. Must get her father’s wool press t
squeeze her. Old duffer’s getting nearly winded
now, thank heaven. Well of all the frights I ever
saw. There’s the Mulligan girls rigged out in
their mauve silks made over. Wonder if Ethel 8
got the gravy stains out of it that she got at her
brother’s wedding dinner-must be two years ago.
Here he goes at last. Amen. Thank Goodness
that’s over.”
When a young lady enters a convent and
receives the “black veil” it is poetically said she
is dead to this world for ever. Now, this may be
true, or it may not. Personally, we have no actual
experience in the matter whatever, and wo are
not particularly mad to gain "uich either, but we
notice that so far as “sweetly pretty ” or “utterly
too too ” names are concerned, the ru iog passion
is strong in death with most of the ladies who are
prematurely buried behind the convent walls. For
instance, we have never yet heard of a “Sister”
Jemima Ann, and we would joyfully walk ten
miles over a newly macadamized road with dried
Eeas in our boots to catch one glance of a Lady
uperioress who willingly styled herself Susan
Jane. Au contraire . however, we read that Miss
Bridget Muldoon is “ in religion,” Sister Maroelli-
anus Eraerentiana of the Holy Cross ; Miss Polly
Potts is Sister Alphonse de ligouri of the Passion ;
Miss Johanna O’Rourke is Sister San Vincenzio
Bonaventura Anseimo du Sacre Cceur, and so on
to the end of this most aesthetic chapter. Another
peculiarity is that the novices invariably assume
names belonging to the male persuasion, which
seems to imply they arc slightly dissatisfied with
tbe sex allotted to them. But they do great good
in their own gentle, self-sacrificing way, ana tow
can well forgive them tbi3-apparently their only
little weaknees.
There is a kind of society of ladies now in
London—of course a high society—who are in-
veterate players of American poker. Those who
understand this subtle, deceptive game will see
the danger. One moment of allurement, one rash
resolve to stake yet once more to try and retrieve
what has gone, and the player is involved beyond
the possibility of paymentbv any ordinary
In one of Reynolds's Histories of the Court, a lady
played higher than she could pay, and in one last
desperate endeavour she staked herself. t>he lost.
A PARAGON.
Her forehead it is smooth and white,
Her cheeks are rosy red.
Her coiled hair is glossy bright
And smooth upon her head.
And yet no hair-dye does she use,
No powder uses she—
On cheeks and lips the rosy hues
Will never faded be.
Her face is pleasant and serene,
She weaves no wicked wile;
No fits of frowning intervene
Between the smile and smile.
No giddy girl, indeed, is she,
By foolish fancies fed—
No sort of gilded gaiety
Would ever turn tier head.
Who is she ? When we tell you this,
Feel how your littlo axe works.
This paragon of females is
A figure in the Waxworks!
Writes the Bishop of Lendon Fulham
Palace, November 14, 1883. Sir, I beg to acknow-
ledge your letter of the 12th inst. T have seen Mr.
Handcock, who distinctly and indignantly denies
the charge, which appears to rest solely on the
statement of Mrs. Thomas. It is, therefore, a case
not capable of investigation, and I have advised
Mr. Handcock that it will be his duty, in order to
clear his character, to brinir an action against you
and Mrs. Thomas if the charge is repeated. I need
not remind you that the penalty for making the
above acousation is severe.—l am, sir, your obedi-
ent. J. London. Mr. TT. C. R Thomas.” Hand-
cock is the View of St. Matthew's and Christ
Church, Hammersmith Notwithstanding his dis-
tinct and indignant denial, he has been committed
tor trial for indecently assaulting a Mrs. Thomas.
She is young* —sweet 18 —and comely. It was Hand-
cock who joined herself and Thomas in marriage
on the Btn November. Next day he called and
asked her to come to the parsonage for some
tracts. When she called (this is her statement) he
put his arm round her dear little waist and led her
to the drawing-room. In cross-examination, she
admitted that “ My clergyman where I attended
was always in the habit of putting his arms on our
shoulders and round our necks when he spoke to
ns ” There! One thing we will always regret—
that we didn’t -tick to «be church when we had a
chance, and not wander off into literature. But it
is the Bishop s letter that is the real bonne bnuche
of the whole affair. “It is, tnerefore, a c«se not
capable of investigation,” and I need not re-
mind you that the penalty for making th« above
accusation is severe!” Of course it is. But then
there’s a penalty for proving it also; and, in the
latter case, it is not Thomas and his wife who will
have to pay it.
Law and Justice exhibit queer anomalies.
Thus, at the Gundagai Sessions, the other day, we
learn that one Foster, for horsestealing, was dis-
charged, owing to the prosecutor being unable to
attend, in consequence of detention by a bush
fire. Hence, as long as a prosecutor is prevented
from personally nttending at Court, by fair means
or foul, the greatest criminal may escape. This
opens up a wonderful Held for the now omnipotent
hoodlum.
It ia a well-proven fact that Friday is an'
unlueky day to start on any venture of import-
ance, and there is a young- man somewhere about
the Nepean district to-day who is by no means
likely to forget this all-importaotfact. It appears
that this rural masher was the principal spirit in
organizing a private picnic up the river, and the
gay party chose the Friday in Christmas week for
th© outing. Shortly after lunch Mr. Masher
started off to show the ladies how Hanlan beat.
Trickett, but before he had done a mile his skiff
capsized, and stood him on his head in the most
ignominious manner one cap imagine. In his
wild endeavours to right the boat he wrenched his
foot in a snag, and sent his hat and a valuable
watch and chain to the bottom of the river also.
After a desperate struggle, in which his pants
were reefed from Dan to Bersheeba and half-way
back again, he struck ths bank, and was hobbling
across a paddock to repair the wreck, when an un-
friendly bull went for him, and caused him to shin
up an adjacent tree with a facility quite sur-
prising on the part of one so young, The branch
he perched on, however, broke, and his wrist was
badly bruised; but the bull pressed his attentions
so closely that Hanlan s s exponent had to make for
a fence, and hastily springing over this he safely
landed in the vile-smelling waters of a beastly
trench. From this he emerged just in time to
notice a search party of friends coming straight
across in pursuit of him; but as he happened to be
divested of the best part of his clothes at the time,
the searchers deemed it advisable to stroll down
to the bank once more until their lost friend had
wrung the slime out of his shirt, and repaired his
pants by the aid of a Novelty-shop knife and strips
off his best handkerchief. Things are quiet now,
but Mr. Masher will start no more holiday trips on
Fridays.
It is a halcyon time for murderers in Eng-
land just now. Marwood’s successor is not yet
thoroughly aufait with the more intricate details
of his art, and, consequently, is not able to give
satisfaction even to the man he hangs. It is said
that this is the reason that the gentleman who
murdered his five children at Walthamstow, the
other day, got reprieved. If our own Mr. Howard
were to die (which the saints forbid!), and our
Government had such delicate scruples, what a
gay old gory time we should have here, to be sure!
Woolloomooloo would riot in carnage, and Water-
loo would revel in new and unnatural crimes.
And, by the way, where is Mr. Howard ? We have
heard very little of him lately. Perhaps he is lay-
ing low for a C.M.G -ship. We see do reason why
he shouldn't get it. He has our recommendation,
anyhow. Talking of hangmen, they say there is
a mysterious fascination in the hangman’s busi-
ness; so much so, that a hangman will not change
his proiession for any other. We can almost
understand this. It must be one of the rare joys
of this earth to put a rope round the necks off
some people. But, passing from the msthetic (we
can venture to use this word again, now that it
has become unfamiliar to the mouths of barbers
and barmaids) view of the question, we have a
suggestion to make. It is that two gigantic gal-
lows clocks be erected with the fines received from
mrrikins—one at Waterloo, the other at Woolloo-
mooloo—the pendulums to consist of such gentle-
men as those who assisted in the little tragic en-
tertainments given in those charming suburbs
lately. The other youno- gentlemen of the neigh-
bourhood would be able to time their stolen
watches by these. If we had our way, they would
never lack pendulums while the larrikin popula-
tion held out. But we haven’t our way. Conse-
quently, we expect to see some of these same
youths legislating lor us one of these days.
Some few years ago in a neighbouring
colony, a banker’s clerk, whom we will call Bull-
more, for the simple teason that Bullmore isn’t
his name, entered into partnership with an old
storekeeper of the place, whose account at the
bank was overdrawn a few hundred pounds. The
object of the partnership was clearly to put this
matter right, but Mr. Bullmore’s experience in
the bank had grounded him so thoroughly in
finance that having fixed up matters satisfactorily
with regard to the few hundreds in question, he
immediately launched into fresh business of a
wholesale nature, in which he was able to employ
the bank’s money on a vastly extended scale.
His partner, the old storekeeper, was greatly
pleased with the turn affairs had taken, and
looked on the junior member of the firm with
leelings of admiration, wonder, and delight, min-
f led up together like mixed pickles in a bottle.
n a very short time the overdraft of the new
firm amounted to a great many more thousands
than the few hundreds he himself had previously
owed. It was this old gentleman’s delight of a
Saturday night to surreptitiously abstract the
bank pass book from the safe where Mr. Bullmore
most carefully kept.it, and take it home with him
to show his wife. “Look at that now,
Maria!” ho would say, opening -the book and
pointing to the debtor balance pencilled
on the pago containing the latest entries.
“There now. Maria dear, look at that
now? What do you think of that fora hover-
draft? £l5 000 ! And when you an’me used to
want a ten-pun-note, blowed if they’d let us have
it! Ah, that's the beauty of good book-keepin’!”
For many years the firm prospered greatly, be-
coming, in fact, the largest importers in that part
of the colony. The old gentleman retired at last
with a handsome fortune, and on account of his
extensive knowledge of the rudiments of the
English language he was immediately raised to
the peerage of the Legislative Assembly of th®
colony, and, as a politician and legislator, took
first honours every time. Mr. Bullmore in the
meantime launched into heavier speculations, but
the bank at last gave out, and he had to surrender
his estate to his creditors, with liabilities princi-
pally due to merchants in various places, which
figured up to the “ demn’d total ” of half a million
sterling. His late partner, however, whose
fortune was safe, and whose admiration for his
young friend had never abated, backed him up to
buy back the estate, which he did, for ss. in the £,
and he is once more one of the most nourishing
merchants in New Guinea. Moral: Alwaysget
a big overdraft—when you can. Banks have no
patience with small ones.
VEARNING.
A thought begins to grow on us.
Though seldom now we think;
It is—you guess it ?-yes, it i»
That we would like a drink.
But there’s no pub. within ten miles—
We're not exaggerating ;
We're living in the country now-^
In fact, we’re rusticating.
And, after all, what is strong drink 7
The seed of every evil.
That drives its victims, young and oWU
Head-foremost to the devil.
We see them now by thousands stand
Upon perdition’s brink,
Through the accursed liquor— Hem!
We wish we had a drink 1


W. H. PALING,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PIANOS, ORGANS, MUSIC, ETC.
jr-n*- y
mm,
ggggf
EASY TERMS SYSTEM
FOB
ANY
INSTRUMENT.
OZ^O-^ZTS,
BY THE RENOWNED MAKERS,
W. Bell and Co., and Palace Organ Co.,
THE BEST MAKERS IN THE WORLD,
AT EXTRAORDINARY LOW PRICES.
w. H. PikljllWG,
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
OPPOSITE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
IS, MACHINERY, ui HE MERCHANTS,
397 GEORGE STREET,
6« and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OF
Engineers’ Tools, Founders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coach
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
ENGINES'
Robey’s celebrated Portable ‘Wind-
ing’ and HotstiDg, Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
PUMPS.
Special Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching
Machines.
MACHINERY.
Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screwing
CD 7 I Cll *- UIUI
Massey s unequalled Steam Hammers
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Bene hes, Ciroular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Saws
Joiners and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power. '
Q on era
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
O.cn Builders’ S u™rie s .-a*l ? , I fP™S o Sa en cZ’b^;lS r ’ “ d Fu " l,shl ”* s ’ VaruLhc, and
Iron; oa,van,**, Corrugated.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woo!packs, Sheep Shears. Oils, Raddle, Twino^ Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam Making
Buildcps’ Ironmongery.
Li.cks, Hinges, Nalls, Screws, Shoot Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may be had on application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO.
397 George Street, Sydney.
Abraham’s Pills
(DANDELION),
THE GREA 1’ LIVER REMEDY,
Australia’s favourite remedy. We all suffer more
or less from liver complaint, thereby hindering
other organs from fulfilling their functions. Set
the liver In order by taking the above remedy, and
heart, lungs, brain, and stomach will unite in
graceful chorus.
ABRAHAM’S PILLS,
The true invigorator. If your vital forces aro
depressed, if you have a feeling of general lassi-
tude and weakness, or a presentiment of oorning
disaster, your liver is unequal to its work. Tc
obviate all these symotoms tnere is no rernedv an
sure and certain as 1
ABRAHAM’S FILLS,
The great Health Restorer. A vast proportion of
the maladies and ailments attacking the human
trame are really due to a disordered liver. Set this
organ in order and health returns as if by mag e.
CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
rA 8 . *i ho F, e are imitations, ask for ABRAHAM'S
see that each box, by whomsoever sold,
hoars the inventor’s name and trade mark. The
Lab juat >ry,
434 George Street, Sydney.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
SHORT HORN
WHISKY.
LBDIARD’S S H °RT HORN BOURBON.- Thu
drink of the army, navy, the club#, and the
American gentlemen; will soon be the leadJno
beverage in Australia; It has no rlva’; the oftenor
you try It the more you like it.
S. HOFFNUNG & CO, Sydney,
WHOLESALE AGENTS.
MASON BROTHERS,
BWMIH
14 and 16 Spring Street,
„ Sydney,
Have alw ye in BTOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WUOIJB--
BALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
AND
EARTHENWA RE,
WINES, BEERS, Asm SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS*
Old Highland Whisky.
J. BORIN and CO.’S
Cog LIAO.
J.T a A YEN’S
Bob r» '»u i *■». n< ! u onr ve.
A. Ml i.V N _nd SONS’
hidinbu to Pale '
PAPEKB ANGI N GS!
DADOES. BONDERS,
FRIEZES to n.alcU,
NURSERi \‘} j-ERS,
CEILING CENTRES,
FIGURES, SCENES, &a
Imported by
Alexander Borthwick,
281 GEORGE STRKETJOpposite Ilunter-st.)
PAINTERS' & DECORATORS' MERCHANT.
Genuine White Lead, Oils, Paints, Colours, Var-
nishes, Brushes, Qoid Leaf, &o.
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. James Curtis, 7
"CT 23. c3.erta.3sea:,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (Ifl) years: also
Manager for over ten (10) years. ' '
w
-m
Smoke Eureka Tobacco
l&r THE PARAGON OF PERFECTION.
Finer tiian the Finest,
The Tobacco of the Age I
DESTINED TO ECL/PSE AND BUPERCEDE
ALL OTH ER BRANDS.
The o. y Tobacco c.m mnlng Excellence of Quality
with Economy In Prioe.
PLUO la STAMPED with the word
eureka. Smokers see that you obtain it
rake no other.
MANUFACTURED BY
SpU’i Total Ci., Lis.
AT THE EAGLE WORKS,
KENT AND CLARENCE STREETS,
An ;«.a be obtained wholesale at their Warehouse
Park-street, Sydney.
Sold Retail everywhere, and will bo used by every
body as soon as Its merits become known.
EUREKA TOBACCO.
Registered according to Aet of Parliament, to pro-
toot, tht* public afloat spurious and worthier
'mil Atlona.
POBERT BUTCHER Jc CO.
(Late William Lon#),
* ar WINK AND SPIRIT MERCHANT,
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoeive prompt attention.
mi
.COMFORTABLE TEETH
The use of this valuable mouth wash insures
entire lroodom from toothache and decay of tho
teeth. There are thieo kinus, distinguished by a
yellow, Green, and Red Silk Thread attached to
the bottles. That with tho Vollow stops instantly
the most Violent Toothache. That with the Green
is invaluable to pei&ons who suffer periodically
rrom toothache, sensitiveness of tho teoth and
gums,deoay and offensive breath, for by using a few
drops In a little water to rinse tho mouth dally,
they will not only never suller again, but will pre-
le . r ™Psir teeth sound and white to the end. That
with the llod is for children’s use.
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
CawUjfi.—Tuyuardayalnst fraudulent imitations,
rw. *22? Label hem's the name, “ Wilcox ana
Co., 239 Oxford-street, London."
DE
i
ASTHMA,GOUGH, BRONCHITIS^
° no of J he ® 0 Cigarettes gives immediato relief In
au e J* r ° rB * ®£teck °f Asthma, Cough, Bronchitis
il , u^ ness Breath. Persons who suffer at night
tham ® ou B'h ln »t phlegm, and short breath, llnd
invaluable, as they Instantly cheek the
Promote sleep, and allow the patient to pass
£ ht ’i ro P®rf6ctly harmless, and may be
patients by ladlG8 ’ chUdr, *n, and most delicate
May be obtained of all Medicine Vendors.
a J^^jZF , i° ua i d a ° a^ tt fraudulent imitations.
"m* J*P h J> ox the name of “ Wile ox and
Co., 339 Oxford-*ireet, Lomion”
MOULTONS
FRUIT
FRUIT curcd *? MOCLTOJTS
1 1LLS - wo mean cured, not merely relieved and
J. 0 crm . I* wvo what we Bay. Thoro nro no lull urea and n«
WLltt« M ° U ™UIT c„“
hoarty eating, correct DISORDERS of the STOMACH
THe’ BLOOD ° The ' KuUlto , tho BOWELS, and TUHIpS*
i-uifi JiIAXJp. The Cheapest and Dest Family Veilfrin*
known, purely Vegetable (mado «f tlio Extrnet ef I'ruitV
Ihcy nro na nearly perfect as it la possible for a Till to bo.
Sold Everywhere, Price la. 3d.
C. E. MOULTON, Sole Proprietor.
PILLS
HALL
d
%
\
c,
o
a
5^
mhmSi
B 0 of R B^nt K^ S < T ? U '^’;^'^hl• Somite bnmo
n °/ f cted groat caro from the
Ai*h.?s A he , brewln 8* of the celebrated firm of
wJSot e^a2d an T« C h M Dublln * Rnd thStow
Stell a TO! d^ie°Aien P tJi ocurGd OVBrywhore -
Marshall’s
TONIC NERVINE
WEGIPTFHEJI.
A SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General Debility, and all complaints
that spring from lack of norve force, as Neuralgia
Toothache, Nervousness, Indigestion, Loss of
Appetite, Live and Kidney Complaints, General
Prostration, &«. By its tonic and soothing effects
it at once romovcsall craving for Alcohol. By its
richness in phosphorous and other powerful vital-
ising- elements it nourishes nnd gives vigour to
tho wholo system. Price, 4«. Hd. Sold every whole
Solo Proprietors. MARSHALL BROTH I.RS.
M.PS. Pharmaclits, 104 aud JOtf Market-street,
pear Hyde Park, Sydney. N.B.—Ail imitations
ulogal.


A Beautiful Painting.— Mr. G. G. Green,
of Woodbury, New Jersey. U.S.A., is presenting
to druggists and others in this country some very
tine pictures in oil of his magnificent house and
grounds and laboratory at that place. Mr. G reen
is the proprietor of Boschee’s German Syrup and
Green’s August Flower, two v ery valuable medi-
cines, which are meeting with great favour, the
first as a remedv for Pulmonary complaints, and
the latter for Dyspepsia and disorders of the Liver
'Pheae preparations have attained an immense sale
solely on their superior merits and are sold by all
druggists throughout the world. The price is the
same for each 3s. 6d. per bottle, or sample bottles
for 6d. The sample bottles enable sufferers to
Pfove their value at a trilling cost.*
VANITY FAIR.
A sudden and almost epidemic whim in
America is for ladies to adorn their hats with cats’
heads. A pretty little white kitten’s head peeping
furtively out or a mass of feathers or leaves is by
no moans ungraceful, the fixed, earnest eyes hav-
ing a curious effect. What becomes of the rc-sidue
of the cat, when the milliner gets its head, is un-
certain; but twopenny “rabbit pies” are now
reduced to a penny—The oustorn of “theatre
parties,” which seems so pleasant and sensible in
theory, is thus spoken of by one who has suffered
from them in Now York:—“Every night the prin-
cipal theatres arc alfiict .'d by three or four theatre
parties. Each numbers from, say, half-a-d?zen
people up to thirty; they take the best rows of
Seats, and chattorand criticise the play all through
ia loud and merry tones. When you are one of a
theatre party, you enjoy yoursell, and look on the
rest of the audience with supercilious pity. It is
when you drop iato a theatre alone and sit
boside a theatre party that you realise what
a nuisance well-bred people can sometimes
make of themselves in public places." A fashion
paper writes: “Shoes are still worn very low."
To be shoe-r they are. Who ever heard of
them being worn high— «iy, on the proboscis or
the cranial bump of self-esteem’....Fashionable
girls in London now-adays go about the streets
witli big dogs with collars on them, or puppies
with collars on them Scotchmen, they say, can’t
see a joke. And yet a Scotch paper announced:
“ Preparations are being made to receive the
Queen at Balmoral, several tradesmen having
reoeived orders to be immediately executed.”
" Yes,” complacently observed a Darlinghurst
fond mother, “ f think M»ud has made a very
good match. I hear that her husband is one of
the shrewdest und most unprincipled lawyers
in the profession, and of course he can afford
to gratify her every wish. Delightful, isn’t it . ;
Many brides now carry up to the altar, instead of
a bouquet, a prayer book bound in white velvet
aud gold—A novelty is the literary bracelet,
made of twelve tiny gold or silver books uttached
by a double chain, each bearing a favourite
author’s name. The musical bracelet bears com-
posers’ names ..At the Photo. Club Ball, Brighton !
(Eng.), last month, a notice was issued that “ peers |
and members of Parliament, with a few excep- I
tions,” are eligible without introduction Worth '
has reached a kind of silver wedding. It is just. 25 j
years since he and the goddess of fashion
started their devoted wedded career. Queen 1
There are two giant intellects down Mo-
ruya way, that are very much troubled about the
purport of creation. They give vent to their
trouble in exceedingly troubled rhyme. One of
them hints, one week, that he has a dark doubt
about the wisdom of the cosmic plan, and the
other clears it up for him the next week. The
medium of this interesting discussion is the
Mokuya Examiner— a paper which, we may say,
is invariably characterised by a lofty moral toi e
and supernaturally bad spelling, it appears one
Steam Launch ,Presented to Christopher Newton, Esq.
Victoria is the only queen in Europe who
has never had a dress made by him
Many scandals have occurred through women
attempting to blackmail men in London. There
are some termini noted as the resorts of pre-
datory women, who infest them with the special
object of pouncing on any likely prey. They pick
out well-known men, often elderly ones, ascertain
their business, residence and movements, and lay
cleverly organised traps for them. A bold charge
was lately made by one of these women against a
London magistrate of high repute, but it failed...
A man, who is a candidate for the office of school
superintendent in lowa, is being opposed by his
wife, who is also a candidate. According to latest
accounts, she Imd given the “ole man ” fits on the
hustings, and bade fair to “leather” him “hands
down.” Doubtless, she had likewise leathered
him “ hands up ” many a time before
It was tried to prevent the holding of the notori-
ous French mask bails in Nev York this season.
They were so attractively naughty that the men
who couldn’t get away from their wives and
attend became virtuous, and attempted to put
them down. But tne.v couldn’t do it; like the
gambling hells in Melbourne, too many influential
citizens enjoyed them.... The divorce court, is
whero they break the - noose gently.... Adamasco-
bite is a mineral which will cut steel rapidly and
keep its own edge .The women of the middle
and upper classes in St. Petersburg are inveterate
Smokers. We suppose this means the single ones.
Because how can a woman hold a cigar in her
mouth when it’s never shut ?
Steam Launch presented to Christopher
Newton, Esq.
This sketch ou this page represents the steam
yacht presented to Mr. Christopher Newton by a
number of British manufacturers and merchants.
The cause of tho presentation has boon al eady
alluded to, but will bear further reference. Years
ago, owing to the drawing of numerous bills by
the home partner, Mr. Newton suddenly found his
commercial progress stopped by the uncomfort-
able words, ”No thoroughfare." There was no-
thing for it but to " compound,” aud 15s. in the £
performed the double office of satisfying the credi-
tors and leaving Mr. Newton with undiminished
hopes but crippled resources. Success, pro-
nounced and uninterrupted, was the result of his
next start, until, a couple of years ago, he visited
England, where he expended iiIO.OUO in settling old
liabilities that had been long since wiped off,
left ally. And novv you know why tho merchants
presented him with a beautiful steam yacht, and
his wife with diamonds. The yacht was put together
in Sydney—at Mr. Dunn's yards, berry’s Bay
and the machinery obtained from Paisley,
sho is one of the trimmest boats in Port Jack-
son An inscription onasilver piate tells us that:—
This Steam Launch (accompanied by a diamond
ring and silver bracelet for Mrs. Newton) was pre-
sented to Christopher Newton, Esq., by a number
of British manufacturers and merchants, as a mark
of their sincere esteem, aud of their deep sense of
his honourable dealings with them during a long
and arduous commeicial career.—John Scott (on
behalf of the subscribers). Oct. 19,1882.” Aud so
we trust that for many years lie and his (we are
speakiDgof the Newtons now) will derive as mueli
pleasure from their launch as their lellow-eitizens
derive troin having among them men whose stand-
ard of commercial morality differs in some im-
poitunt particulars from—others.
of these pensive mastodons is known as "the
Bard of Broulee.” To him the other bard:—
“ The loneliness you must endure
May bring a more sorrowful mood;
An exchange of our thoughts, I am sure,
Will result in a mutual good.’’
Wc-can quite believe it. The thoughts of neither
or them will ever do any harm. And, judging by
the following (from the Bard of Broulee), the
exchange seems to be a fair one. Hear him:
“ This infernal vampire of my soul
Has stolen from me my thought, my all;
And has left me, in its fiendish glee,
A mere hoot-jack for humanity.’’
If he is a hoot-jack - which wc do not doubt, as he
writes like a boot-jack—ho should be better ac-
quainted with teetthan his verses show him to be.
But, as ho says himself :
“ Had I fallen iu with better fate,
To have known the sciences of late,
Then, with many of the day, I may
Have serious, startling things to say.”
This, of course, is modesty. We have no doubt
Darwin would have deemed it j jy to have known
nun. in fact, he was always on the look-out for
him, was Darwin. We are putting the case gently.
But though the Bard of Broulee had been an en-
cyclopaedia, be could not have produced ativtning
more startling than his poetry. Here is his vale-
dictory veise to the other bard:
“ Adieu—Christmas joy* shall chase away
The bitter thoughts ot the bygone day,
But like the waves of a stormy main,
Shall too quickly heave in sight again.”
Wc have done the underlining, as the author evi-
dently forgot it. The “quickly heave” is, no
doubt, a delicate reference to the goose-stuffing,
which, with whisky and that issue of the Moruya
Examiner, we may take to constitute the "Christ-
mas joys.” By the way, we had nearly forgotten
the “infernal vampire of his soul.” He should
take an emetic for this. He has evidently swal-
lowed a frog at some time or other, and it is mov-
ing about inside him. This is what causes nil his
trouble about the plans of Providence. And now
a word of advice—in rhyme, as they will probably
take it better that way- to the “ Bard of Broulee ”
and his despondent friend:—
O, bards give up your cares!
You were never made to think;
You were made to eat and drink,
Drink rum, eat Irish stew -
God will take oare of His own affairs,
The dpvll will see to you.
We have a small book called “ The Two
Spirits, and other Poems.” The others are two.
“Innocence ”is a weak little pastoral; and “ Ponte
Moro ” is a ballad about one Caliph Abdaraliman
Ledinalla in ancient Grenada. Wo don't see why
any man should print this in Sydney—especially as
It is. not worth printing 1 anywhere. “The Two
Spirits ” is a piece of seventeen pages, describing
how, to use the author's opening words,
“ There is a legend of the Rhine
That’s slipped between the gaps of time.”
It would be of no interest, even if it were well
written: but it is not. In syntax, grammar, and
rhyme, it is full of faults. It’s the old mistake of
rushmg into poetry while there’s plenty of room
for wrestling with pothooks.
AFTER MANY YEARS.
Young I was, and my heart, beat high
With the hope that is born of youth;
A ?xr L tlie s P ai 'kle of passion it lighted mine eye,
When that optic first lighted on Ruth.
The maiden was fair, and her golden brown hair
Grew loug and luxuriant-lee :
Close, in clusters, it elung to hershouliers bare—
And Ruthie clung close to me.
Old, I am, and my heart don’t boat
As it used to, some years ago;
I suffer the tortures of gout in my feet,
And my hair is as driven snow.
Ruth, likewise, is old, and for hair of gold
ahe weareth a wig instead;
Rut, spite of her age, she’s a terrible scold—
-1 wish I was cold— and dead.
A most interesting exemplification of the
way in which the gaols of tiie world are tilled
comes from a distant land; but there *s, wo tear
very little reason to travel far Iroin home lor such
a record. It appears that from a young hoodlum
girl named “ Margaret ’’—who was left adrift in a
village on the Hudson 70 yeats ago, and to grow
up as best she could—have descended 200 criminals.
IjJ op® single generation there were 20 children ;
of these nine served in the State prisons an aggre-
gate term of fifty years, while the others were
frequent inmates of gaols and penitentiaries. The
whole number of this girl s descendants through
six generations is 900. 200 are on record as crimi-
nals, a large number Idiots, imbeciles, drunkards,
lunatios, prostitutes, aud paupers. How many
Margarets have we here who are on the right wav
to follow up the deeds of their Hudson sister.
The Bishop of Bombay recently ordered a
clergyman to discontinue administering the sacra-
ment to some poor devil of a sinner who had
repented and reformed, but bad not made a public
eoufession of his sins, as the Bishop thought he
should have done. His Lordship evidently thinks
the angels who have “more joy over one sinner.’’
&c., are easily amused. Perhaps he is right; but,
t hen, he should remember that they have not h d
the same advantages of education' as he has had.
If we were a Bishop, we should think of the angels
kindly, and make allowances for their defective
culture. It is onlv too apparent, however, that
his Lucifershlpof Bombay will, when hegoesaloft,
quarrel with the cherub choir about the colour of
their wings, if he thinks they look too gaudy or
ritualistic.
A determined man can do anything. We
were reading the other day of a fowl-fancier, who
had some rare eggs hatching, and found the hen
dead on the nest one fine morning, Did this dis-
courage him ? Not a bit. He just pulled on his
nightcap, went to bed and hatched them himself.
Now, if aDy accident should happen to the Vice-
regal fowls. Lord Gussy has only to put up his
finger to have the hatching finished in a similar
way. Wo know a man who would be proud to do
it. Even to be the Viceregal sitting-hen ivould
satisfy him, failing higher offices. And, by the way,
this human incubation idea suggests to us a use
for the members of the Legislative Council. They
are always sitting and doing nothing ; why not
therefore sit on eggs and be of some use to the
country ? And, thunder, wouldn’t it be a gigantic
idea to get, say, John Lucas to sit on a moa’s egg
and hatch it!
Mr. Gladstone went out with his little axe
and cut down another tree, the other day. This
performance was witnessed by a select party of
friends, and the information was telegraphed all
over the country. We have cut down gnarlier
trees than ever grew round Hawarden, and
grubbed stumps that would fill an average English
county, and yet nobody ever took the trouble to
telegraph the fact round for the information of
Europe. There is something uneven about all
this, but what it is we don’t just see. The fact,
however, is apparent to us that we are neglected.
We believe it we were to go out and cut down a
town councillor, no notice would be taken of the
occurrence—except, perhaps, the casual notice of
the individual cut down. We have a good mind to
try it. We cut down a dead Chinaman from a tree
once. Even he took no notice of us. Real merit
is always overlooked iq this world.
. ® ir Wilhelm Siemens dead; born
* jeu tho ; educated at the University of
V> constr uctor of telegraph apparatus ;
of a regenerating gas furnace and bath-
ometer, a pyrometer, See. U no of four brothers,
his eldest brother, Ernst Werner, a celebrated
electrician, laid the first submarine mines that
there were fired by electricity; his younger
brothers are likewise accomplished scientists •
Frederick runs a celebrated glass factory at
Dresden ; while Walter conducts large copper and
cobalt works at Tiflis. u
Skinny Men— “ Wells’ Health Renewer” re-
stores health and vigour, cures Dvsnensia
Impotence, Debility Moses, Moss & Co./iydnev
General Agents.
Swiss Commissioner’s Speech.
Extract from a speech delivered at the Amphi-
theatre of the Primary College of La Cbaux-de-
Fonds, Tuesday, the 14th day of November, 1876,
by M. Edouard Favre-Perrel, Swiss Commissioner
and juror to the Philadelphia Exhibition:—
On the Waltham “ Riverside ” Watch.
. . . . “The Waltham Company make the
entire watch—from the first screw to the case and
dial. It would even be difficult for them to use
our products, so great is the regularity, so minute
the precision, with which their machines work
They arrive at the regulation of the watch—so to
say—without having seen it. When the watch is
given to the adjuster, the foreman delivers to him
the corresponding hair-spring and the watch ►is
regulated. (Sensation among the audience.) Here
is what 1 have seen, gentlemen I I asked from the
director of the Waltham Company, a wntoh of thu
fifth grade. A large safe was opened before me;
at random I took a watch out of it and fastened it
to my chain. The director, having asked me to
let him have the watch l'or two or three days, so
as to observe the motion. I answered, ‘ On the con-
trary, i persist in wearing it just as it is. to obtain
an exact idea of your manufacture.’ At Paris, I set
my watch by a regulator on the Boulevard, and on
the sixth day I observed that it had varied 3!i
seconds. And this watch is of the fifth American
grade; it cost 75 francs (movement without easel.
At my arrival at Locle, I showed the watch to one
of our first adjusters, who asked permission to
‘ take it down ’—in other words, to take it to
pieces. I, however, wished first to observe it; and
here is the result, which I noted: Hanging, daily
variation, 1)4 seconds; variation in different posi-
tions, from 4 to 8 seconds; in the ‘ heated room,
the variation was but very slight. Having thus ob-
served it, 1 handed the watch to the adjuster, who
took it down. After the lapse of a few days, he
came to me and said, word for word: ‘I am com-
pletely overwhelmed: the result is incredible; one
would not find one such watch among 50,000 of our
manufacture.’
“ This watch, gentlemen, 1 repeat to you, I took
at hazard—out of a heap, as we say. You under-
stand, from this example, that the Waltham watch
may be preferred to the Swiss. I have finished,
gentlemen, and I have told you of things such as
1 have seen them. It remains for us to profit
from this sad experience, and to improve our
manufacture. Competent men are not wanting
among us; they must go to work at once.”
IA round of applause followed the speaker as he
descended the tribune.l


Fosier ’s Bugle Brand.
GENUINE EXTRA STOUT.
5S
m
-i
m
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
SOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINE
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Champagne
Heidsieck & Go’s.
DRY MONOPOLE.
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL RICHABDS & Co., London.
Sole Agents for Heidsieck & Co., Reims.
BLEND
[Trade}
JMARXj
.Jli
COLLIE BLt:ND WHISKY.-This is a BLEND
of the PUREST MATURED Whiskies, com-
bining fulness of body, with piquancy and delicacy
of taste and flavour. CATTELL & CO., Solr
A (rents
/
Eli
’ VISIT R. BURGIS’ NEW TAILORING
ESTABLISHMENT, 170 PITT STREET,
CHEAPNESS, FIT, AND WORKMANSHIP.B
Diagrams for'self-measuring forwarded to any
. part of the Colony
TTTilcox
AND
GIBBS
Automatic
Silent
SEWING
machines.
Mangle and
linger, £4lO
MANGLES
WASHING
MACHINES,
CHURNS,
Corn shelters
TOBACCO
CUTTERS,
Walwux
Wood,
&c. &c. &c.
H E
BBLEWHITE &CO.
OF, OR OK STREET.
@)for U,ver Complaints.
K '-y MARSHALL BROTHERS'*
.CHEMISTS, MARKET ST RE ET.
TV. gundagai herald,
1 nstoral Gazette & Farmers’ Chronicle,”
TPvrnr,. if .h wh ich i 8 incorporated the.
hMORA HERALD & MINING JOURNAL,”
Published every
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
The popular paper of the district.
W. H. L. BAILEY, Proprietor.
Itea trioal Job Printing, and box office for
Awetjablr Hall,
JEWELLERY, JEWELLERY. JEWELLERY
CASH SALK.
EXTENSIVE ALTERATION TO PREMISES.
LAMB & FAIRFAX, 23 IImiter-street,
be/ to inform their customers and the public that
they are now offering: their carefully-selected
Stock at a Reduction of 25 per cent.
Five Shillings in the Pound taken off plain marked
previous pricer.
N.B. —As Christmas is close at hand, the opportu-
nity should not be missed of purchasing: intended
gifts.
P. R. HOLDSWORTH,
AUCTIONEER, VALUATOR,
House, Land & Estate Agent
63 ROYAL ARCADE PITT STREET.
GILBEY’S SILVERSTREAM SCHNAPPS.
Gilbey's Old White Jamaica Rum,
Can be recommended as being: of the highest
quality, and superior to any imported.
TUCliKlK A CO., Solo Agents,
<Y-M Georiro-st.reet.. Sydney.
Q.EORGE GOULET and CO.’S
Extra Quality
DRY CHAMPACNE
has been selected for the
CORONATION
of
HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY THE CZAR OP
RUSSIA,
and Festivities at St. Petersburg, and was the
ONLY CHAMPAGNE
served at the
ROYAL BANQUET
given in honour of the
OPENING of the AMSTERDAM EXHIBITION
to
HIS MAJESTY
THE KING OF HOLLAND.
“ 154 Collins-street, East, Melbourne.
“Dear Sir,—Of the sample of George Goulet’s
extra DRY Champagne, I cannot speak in
terms too highly. Its qualities are certainly of a
very high order. It possesses a charming bouquet,
fruity and pronounced. It is essentially a dry
wine, with attenuation, and free from acidity
HU* fun. crisp, and clean on the palate; an
whilst it exhtlirates, it unquestionably aids
tion.
“ Yours faithfully,
“(Signed) James Geo. Beaney, M.D.
“ To R. H. Blackwell, Esq.”
GARRICK A CO., Sydney Agents.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
First Prizes and Exhibition.
mr. f . ware,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILD NQS,
Cornci* George & Market Streets, Sydney
Hours, 9 till 5.
WM. RUSSELL,
DENTIST,
Corner of KING and PITT STREETS, Sydney.
Artificial Teeth, from 5s. Stopping. Sealintr and
awhdfmtni 8 Ho < i Uall^f“ Gd f r u te ; Malformations and
£““?«?' tel deformIMes 0 f the jaws, teeth, or palate,
treated. Kmg-st. entrance. All work guaranteed.
ALCOCK&CO.S
CELEBRATED
BILLIARD
TABLES.
SOLE AGENTS:
CHARLES 11 iii C0„
375 George-st., Sydney.
w TIME payments, if required.
AYER’S PILLS.
A large proportion of the diseases which
cause human suffering result from derange-
ment of the stomach, bowels, and liver.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills act directly upon
these organs, and are especially designed to
cure the diseases caused by their derange-
ment, including Constipation, Indiges-
tion, Dyspepsia, Headache, Dysentery,
and a host of other ailments, for all of
which they are a safe, sure, prompt, and
pleasant remedy. The extensive use of these
Pills by eminent physicians in regular prac-
tice, shows unmistakably the estimation in
which they are held by the medical profes-
sion.
These Pills are compounded of vegetable
substances only, and are absolutely free from
calomel or any other injurious ingredient.
A Sufferer from Headache writes :
“Ayer’s Pills are invaluable to me, and
are my constant companion. I have been
a severe sufferer from Headache, and your
Pills are the only thing 1 could look to
for relief. One dose will quickly move my
bowels and free my head from pain. They
are the most effective and the easiest physic
I have ever found. It is a pleasure to me to
speak in their praise, and 1 always do so
when occasion offers.
W. L. Page, of W. L. Page & Bro.”
Franklin St., Richmond,Ya., June 3,1882.
“I have used Ayer’s Pills in number-
less instances as recommended by you, and
have never known them to fail to accomplish
the desired result. We constantly keep them
on hand at our home, and prize them as a
pleasant, safe, and reliable family medicine.
FOR DYSPEPSIA they are invaluable.
J. T. Hayes.”
Mexia, Texas, June 17,1882.
The Rev. Francis B. Harlowe, writing
from Atlanta , Oa., says: “For some years
past I have been subject to constipation,
from which, in spite of the use of medi-
cines of various kinds, I suffered increasing
inconvenience, until some months ago I
began taking Ayer’s Pills. They have
entirely corrected the costive habit, and
have vastly improved my general health.”
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills correct irregu-
larities of the bowels, stimulate the appe-
tite and digestion, and by their prompt and
thorough action give tone and vigor to the
whole physical economy.
PREPARED BY
Dp. J.C.Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass*
Sold by all Druggists.
YOUNG,
OLD, AND
MIDDLE-
AGED.
ilitic taint,
by its use.
All experience the wonderful
beneficial effects of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Children with Sore Eyes, Sore
Ears, or any scrofulous or syph-
may be made healthy and strong
Sold by all Druggists; $1, six bottles for $5.
ELLIOTT BROS., S. HOFFNUNG & CO.,
Wholesale Agents.
SCOTCH WHISKEY!
Hr I'HE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old HatYired.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DALY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIES
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
309 George Street, Sydney
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY 2
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Ex*. « vt at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. refore, rely that It
has not been in the hands of “ T< hiskey Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it, look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
Daly Brothers,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
JAMES MACGREGOR,
308 GEORGE STREET.
n «fiL££RATO>
WHOLESALE
GROCER
and
WINE and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
BOLE AGENT
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
BT“ MANUFACTURER OF THE CELEBRATED
SULTAN’S COFFEE.
AF li n DEF^ E MOUSTACHE and WHISZEBS. >tFO«: after
, Boyd's Beard Elixir did thin, and
| trill do it on cither bald head or
bare face. Forces heavy Mohs ■
tache to 4 weeks and never
“ fails, 20,000 young men already 1
- * - wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. fto injury, easily applied, sertain in effect. Packets 1«. M.
each, 3 for St. ed.,post paid, tent under cover, free from observation.
73°, q.p-Q., Syd%ey,f/,S. W‘
Copyrighted.
Copyrighted
Singer’s Sewing Machines.
& CO.
Are the Recognised Agents of the
CELEBRATED SINGER MANUFACTURING CO.
TIME PAYMENTS:
6d. per week—3s. 6d. per week-2s. 6d. per week.
And no interest charged.
10 per cent, off for cash.
HT“ BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Agents for the ONLY GENUINE “SINGER,”
TURNER & COMPANY,
578 Georere-street
3 doors past Bathurst-strcct
the onlT^binger."
Turner and Company,
678 GEORGE STREET
3 doors past Bathurst-strcet.
A COLOSSAL ME!!!
The following: Gentlemen are engaged as
CUTTERS in the
LARGEST and Most EXTENSIVE
Tailoring Establishment
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Some 300 hands are now employed by Messrs.
BU9IMERFIELII Jk Co., whose chief
place of business is
235 & 237 Pitt-st.,
SYDNEY, with Branches at
NEWCASTLE, DUBBO, WAGGA, and 51 & 53
leadeNhall-stkeet, London, e.c.
Mr. H. W. CHAPMAN, the well-known City
Cutter.
Mr. W. FROST, Thirty Years’ Sydney expe-
rience.
Mr. C. PROBYN, of Poole’s, Saville Row,
London.
Mr. H. J. TONKIN, of Tonkin, Sons and Co.,
Bristol.
Mr. R. MORRISBY, Eight Years with Summer-
field and Co.
Mr. CHARLES TAUTZ, of Tautz and Co.,
Breeches Makers, Piccadilly.
At Newcastle :
Mr. WALTER RICE, best known Cutter in
Australia.
Mr. W. SHAW.
iiminmo..
THE PEOPLE'S TAILORS,
AND GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS.
artificialJeeth
War ran ted f i rst qual i ty jj
* Charges .strictly modera tk
MARSHALL BROTHERS
' ' MARKET ST E.
ALL DENTAL OPERATIONS PERFORMED
WITH SKILL.
Teeth Stopped, and Exttraetcd Painlessly
ZOEDONE,
Pleasant, Refreshing,
Invigorating.
The noD-aieohohc beverage acts as a brain and
nerve tonjc, and does not intoxicate.
ZOEDONE
I« recommended by the Faculty as a substitute for
t> eer , and spirits, as it invigorates without
producing any intoxicating effect. In case of
debility consequent on a long residence in a hot
climate, it is ot great, service, as it acts not, onlv as
a nerve stimulant, but also as a permanent tonic
to the system.
n ’* •» 8 „ 1 „ 24/»
Price per cas? containing 10 dozen H pints „.2f/-
ELLIOTT BROTHERS,
72 and 74 Pitt-street,
. Sydney.
PAINTS.
OILS.
o
6
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
N.FJ. Putt, ATOM and Prions
3RELLAS
RS-COVERE&
STUDY ECONOMY,
and
Have yourU mbrclla Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN’S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Sta»
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Repairs neatly ex*,
rated


To produce real genuine sleep and ehild-
ltko repose all night, take a little Hop Bitters on
retiring. Look lor.
VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you nrc suffering from poor health
*or languishing on u bed of sickness,
‘take cheer, for
Hop Bitters will cure you.
“If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘ weak and dispirited, without clearly
‘knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
taxed yourself with your pastoral
‘ duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘and work,
Hop Bitfcei-3 will Restore you.
“If yor. are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘your j'jory-day duties, or a man of lot-
‘ ters, tobing over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strengliten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
‘ pation, or are young and growing too
‘ fast, its is often the ease,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“ If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
that your system needs cleansing, ton-
ing, or stimulating, without inttoxieat-
ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and your blood thin
and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
‘unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
room drinks ; impure water, etc., ren-
dering them harmless, and sweetening
‘the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no sickness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmiess, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
GRAHA
TAILOE,
531
George St., Sydney.
Tailoring Establishment,
548, late 531, George-stroet, Sydney.
Gentlemen,—l respectfully beg leave to bring
undor your notice the superior style and lit of our
Trousers, which are cut on the same unerring
principles as those which have made the name of
Hill, Bond-street, a household word amongst the
leaders of fashion In the world’s metropolis.
They combine, with an easy and graceful ap-
pearance, perfect freodom either in sitting, riding
or walking ; require neither footstraps nor braces
fall smoothly over the boot, and maintain their
position in every attitude of the body.
They are designed to fit the corpulent as well .
the slight flguro, and aro engaged to give to all the
most perfeot satisfaction.
A single trial will sufllce to establish their claim
on your patronage.
I am, Sir,
Yourobodiont Servant,
JOHN GRAHAM.
MALT BITTER!.
THE GREAT CURE FOR INDIGESTION.
BILIOUSNESS, LIVER COMPLAINT WEAI
NESS, &c.
PRICE 2s. 6d.
Prepared by A. G. KEBBLEWHITE, Chemist, a
43 ERSKINE STREET.
-nia hr U SOrri,. *r>4 »ll OhMnla+ji
Printed and P
paper Co. (LI
od by The Bulletin Noi
), 24 Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W
Martial In Sydney.
(“ Die, Musa, quid aval Cantus mens Rufus ?
Vis scire, quid agat Cantus tuus 1 Ridct. '
Epigram iil: SO.)
Oh, merry muse of whim and wit,
Whom I delight in wooing—
Just tell me, 'ero till* rhy me is writ,
What’s Canon Harry doing ?
He’s buying, p’raps, colonial clothes,
And his outfit for the sea;
And selling off-well, goodness knows
• What odds or ends his be!
But how will he speod on the brine.
When I'rieuds have said “good-bye?
His brain needs food —this good divine —
Kcclee;ustie high!
Macaulay, Thackeray, Scott, and Hume,
Tho wit ot Hood and Jurrold !
And a six month's “tile,’’ wo may presume,
OI the SYDNEY Mokning Hebaid.
But wil' he ask (or be afraid,
Lest he appear jejune)
For the journal all the clergy read—
Tub Buuletin to June ?
’Tis said when doctors disagroe,
Authority o'ertops!
Be this his grouud, and lesson be,
“ Denominational Drops,"
He should, as he’s a soldier In
Tho Army of tho Free,
Prepare him well to cope with sin,
And—scan the *’ Keleree."
And if he hath a kindly heart,
That in life’s drama glows,
He’ll tlud the drama, apt and smart,
Pictured in “ Sundry Shows."
Thon “ Hearts A’ ween ’’—Long live tho Q ;een,
And Barry, long live he!
To Uishop s stall—he’s welcome all-
An—a prelate sound he be!
J.E.L.
To Journalists.
A STIRE
(After SWIFE.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Go soli the typo, upsot the ink.
The quill destroy, from olfico slink;
How dare yo write ? Bah! sweep tho street,
A journalist is but a cheat!
For journals scandalously daro
(Even while Sir James is in the chaii)
To publish, for tho public good,
And serve up truthful mental food.
Yo know that juries will not stand
Such truths, sown broadcast through tho land;
Why should a juryman decide ?
For ye may prick his horny hide.
Ye write lor gain ”Stay, yet for more;
We fling wid.- open wisdom’s door;
To rich and poor, to high and low—
We care not which, if lriend or foe;
Why should wo fear ? What should we hoed 7
Wo cry aloud: ‘ who runs may read I ’
Our motto is—* the public weal!’
Our satire such, that rogues may feel.
Wo know that only withers wring,
Which dread our lash, or feel our sting 1
Cant, vice, and fools, our targets are,
And tolerance our guiding star;
Bay, then, what gain we ? Could we not,
With vicious ease, slur, lie, and blot ?
And twice as fast, while vice we nurse,
Fill up with sordid gold our purse 7
Far be that day, colonial scribes
Shall stab the truth, and pocket bribes,
Connive at crime, stamp honour down,
Or servile creep ’ueath Judge’s frown.
Mansfield arise! We livo too late;
Where justico sat is desolate! ”
What stuff! Yo err, so Judges say,
And juries list, wheu Judges bray!
If ye but wisdom put within
The Judge's pates, yo cannot sin.
Be wise—and fill, with Bacon’s lore,
What was but emptiness before!
Let then your columns beat the drum,
In praise of Judges, juries—scum;
Applaud the Judge (howe'er so base),
When dealing with a libel case;
And print “ all learning’s but a straw
In contrast with His Honor’s law! ”
Why, then, not gild tho horse-hair wig ?
If people chide ye, cry “ A Fig I ”
Ask “ Is it prudent crime to show.
“ When juries, o'er and o’er, say— * No ? ’ ”
And pat the juries on tho buck
<Tho’ kennels show a better pack);
Be crafty, rich, draw tight purse-string,
And lot all villains have their fling !
Tom and Ned.
A TALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
** How do, old boy ? Come have a drink; r
Dost bring to mind past years, old chum,
When wo two fellows knocked about
What! Ned, old man, you don’t like rum?”
“ Ahl times aro changed; we’re growing old,
No more wo’ll dance and look so frisky;
You’re not cut up so much as I
Whyt what’s up Ned, you won’t try whisky 7',
We’ve had, together, roaring sprees,
Away up North, at Bush Man-traps;
Ahl Ned, those palmy days are gone,
When nuggets filled our Ebl no schnapps? ’>
“ Say, Ned, art on tho strict Q.T.?
Or, perhaps, you’ve now bocomo a dandy ?
Hi! waiter, fill a good stiff glass
Of Phew 1 What! Don’t drink good threo-
Btar brandy ? ”
“ I seo. old man, you think that grog
Will cut up rough, and ipako us queer,
And yet we ulways freely nipped ”
Oh! Hang it all, (Jou’tsay, ‘no beer!”’
’• Why, Ned, you’re changed—you’re not tho mato
W ith whom I’ve jingled many glasses,
And pitched the yurn, and turned tho whim,
And humped the drum. Ah! Sollfe patoeti"
A year has passed: by winter fire,
Ned sits and thinks of times of yore
His thoughts fly back to shanty spaces,
He hears the drunken crowd once more.
Once more he sees the slobbering mouth,
Hoars ribald songs that break tho night;
With reeling limbs before the bar,
Half-maddened sots yell, swear, and fight.
His bead now droops, he murmurs low:
“I wonder what road poor Tom steers!
I wouldn’t drink wlion last wo mot—
I haven’t arank for twenty years.
•* Let parsons rant about our souls.
And shriek out—‘on religion think,'
What’s bhuting mankind, day by da» ?
’Tia cursed, damning, maddening Drink! ’
Aroused, by knocking at the door,
On opening—there, beforo Ned’s eye,
Pale, tottering, with white, quivering lips,
Poor Tom, his mate, moans, “ Let me die!
“ Why, Tom, old fellow—cheer up, man,
You’ll get all right—then no more glasses;
Tom, dying, answers, “ Ned, don’t drink,
Good-bye, God bless you." So life passes.
' James Little, who lives up the country,
and is esteemed a very smart man In that quarter,
brought a few sovereigns down to Melbourne to
put him over a holiday. A cab dropped him in
Bourke-street and he tendered one sovereign,
holding his hand for tho change. As each shilling
fell into his palm. Jamas was doing the necessary
counting, but when he said “nineteen,” a little
lad, till then unnoticed, grabbed the coins and
struck out for the nearest alley. The chase was
exciting, but James did not see the iad or tho
coins after. That served him as a subject for de-
scriptive discourse until evening. He then wont
to the Bijou theatre, and while receiving a ticket
at tho window, ho felt the purse sliding gently
LIFE INSURANCE.
AGENT: “Let me see. Miss, did you say you were eighteen—ahem—eighteen—that is
eighteen hundred. Let’s see. What month?”
down from tho breast pocket of his coat. He fol-
lowed it, and, as well as the crowd would let him
initiated another obase. This one lasted a long-
time, but with the same result as before. Then
the countryman went round his friends and bor-
rowed as much as paid his fare home, and left the
capital at midnight. When asked if he saw the
“Forty Thieves” at the Bijou, he shakes his head
solemnly and says: “Forty? Aye, hundreds. At
the bijou ? Aye,everywhere, everywhere.”
We are a very childish generation, after
all. We have discovered—or some of us'have dis-
covered—that intoxicating liquor is injurious to
the human system. Instead of giving up the use
of it in an ordinary way, we must band togethor,
and decorate ourselves with badges, and call each
other right worshipful, and most noble, and the
like. Thon the old yearning comes over us, and
AN ANTIDOTE FOB. SNAKE BITE.
On snake-bites, an old bushman writes:—“As for antidotes the best known is grog.
When bitten, if he has such good fortune, let him drink as much grog as he can and as
strong as he can, whilst his friends provent his going to sleep by walking him about
until dangerous symptoms are past.” This is almost enough to tempt one, this hot
weather, to indulge in a bite daily. And apropos of this, listen to what a smart Eng-
lish Commercial man says, inter alia, regarding things Australian " Brandy is con-
sumed in large quantities by the diggers, who find by taking it in large quailituis that
they in time become impervious to the bites of venomous creatures with which the
country is filled.”
we make a feeble compromise with the fiend by
drinking dismal decoctions cunningly com-
pounded for us by the long-headed men who
thrive on our weaknesses. The latest of these is
a beverage known as “ Blue-ribbon Beer. This
is said to “ resemble in every particular ordinary
beer, being made from malt and hops, and yet
does not contain any alcohol.” Here is puerility
of the puerilest. As if men drank beer because
they were thirsty 1 As if they drank it to kill
time! They don’t. The underlying principle, the
eternal basis of bibulatien, is to get drunk. While
temperance societies overlook this fact, they will
never prosper. The only society of this kind that
will succeed will be one which will provide its
members with a beverage upon which they can
get decorously drunk. Such a society would have
a career of triumph before it in Sydney.
This is a solid fact. In a certain town out
somewhere, lately, n lovely wifo buried her “ 010
man ” one week, married her daughter “ in stylo ”
the next, and on the following one inaugurated a
race meeting at her hotel. Beat that, and “ tram-
ple on the Greek and Itoman glory," ye disconso-
late widows I
Thus the Wilcannia Times, in a quite re-
markable paragraph about an iguana 13 or 14
inohes long killing a half-grown rabbit“ If an
enigma, of that size could kill a half-grown rabbit,
it can easily be understood,” &c. (Wo omit the
remainder of the proportion sum.) Ever since we
first mot Kelly (erst of the Stockavuip) we have
been aware of the capacity of the far Western
enigma to tackle anything from a rabbit to a
squattah. Moreover, there is yet another reason
why, at least by us, the rabbit-destroying enigma
can never be regarded as an anomaly—we have
known a simple conundrum to knock out of time
four Down and Gumtree men.
We think we shall soon give up reading
the English papers. Tney annoy us. Here we
have just come across a paragraph about the
Marquis of Bute. He has four magnificent man-
sions already—Mount Stuart, in the Islo of Bute ;
Cardiff Castle, in Glanmorganshiro; Dumfries
House, in Ayrshire ; and Chiswick House, which
he has rented for a term of years—and now he is
building himself another gaudy mansion at
Bilston, near Harrogate. Is tho Marquis of Bute
any hotter than wo are? Is he as handsome? Is
he as elever? Is he such a spoiled child of the
Muses ? is he as capable of appreciating a refined
and luxurious life ? Does he know as much about
the nutritious properties of office paste ? Not by
leagues. And yet here are we living in a threc-
reomer with the bailiff in. There is one comfort,
however; if wo have not as many houses as the
Marquis, we move quite as often. And, by the
way, he is said to be building his new houses and
restoring the old ones in accordance with Pugin’s
“ True Principles of Christian Art.” Humph 1 The
true principles of Christian art used to be to live
in a catacomb or a cave in the wilderness, and
give all your goods to the poor. But perhaps
Pugin had original ideas of his own on this sub-
ject. Lots of people have, We haven’t. But
that’s because we are the poor.


25
G
i*
&
A
CH
re
as
!^ S
o
.vKTew
/
*ha\s£
559 & 541 66QR&E -ST
r *
rieApjiYOFPOsiTS post ofpics .
SAat€ ©eopee STreex
5 ! 5
C. COWLES,
Gunmaker & Importer.
"V
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS.
For Price and Quality have no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &0.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.—Second-hand Guns by best makers.
J LAWLER, 608 George-street, Bedding Manu-
• facturer, Importer of Brass and Iron Bed-
steads, American and Austrian Chairs, Curled Hair,
Kapok, and Cotton Flock. Established 1860.
subßjq hums am
Have no rival
on tlie Planet.
Sole Agents:
CRAMPTON
and:
BRUCE.
■ Zi
UP
m
T;^ r "
281
SEQR6E ST.,
OPPOSITE
HUNTER ST.
FINEST STOCK OE PIANOS AND ORGANS IN SYDNEY.
McCLEERY’S HOTEL,
Corner of KING and CASTLEREAGH STREETS.
ft. MeCLEERY (late of Bathurst), Proprietor.
I3r PRIVATE BAR UP-STAIRS.
STAR & GARTER HOTEL
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
As no expense has been spared in the erection of the Hotel premises, M. K. sruaranfcees country
visitors and others the best accommodation, combined with civility.
E. TXT*olff Sz Son’s
To he had from all Stationers & Storekeepers throughout the colonies.
CHINA & GLASS AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
BROKEN SERVICES HATCHED, and made up complete.
CHINA HEP AIRED.
Every description of China or Glass Lent on Hire.
T.
CHINA IMPORTER AND DEALER,
Corner of Royal Arcade, Sydney.
SNF
☆
l
THE ONLY GENUINE TINTAG
TOBACCO.
consume, in manufacture, nearly three-
fourths of the whole of the leaf imported
into N.S. Wales, therefore their Twist and
Elat Tobaccos stand EIRST in the estimation of judges of Tobacco.
Yankee Doodle, Conqueror, Sir Roger (thick twist), Cut R.C. Ruby, Oriental Mixture
CIGARETTES.— CONQUEROR and EARLY BIRD hold a h ! gh position.
Importer* of Pipes Ciaars. and all Tobacconist*’ Sundries.
TQBACCO WORKS, HYDE SYDNEY,
yf
C. B. MODIHI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
vaer TWO SPECIAL PRIZES (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will be faithfully
guaranteed at 602 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chas. Osborne ; also Angelo Bor-
doni, of Brescia, Italy.
SOHO BAZAAR,
352 GEORGE STREET
(Paling’s Old Premises).
THIS BAZAAR, which has just been OPENED
will be found to contain a superior assort
ment of
Brie a Brae, Articles of Vertu,
Terra Cotta, Chinaware, &c. t
Tricycles, Erencli and German
Model Bolls, Count Harrach’s
Bohemian Vases, Parisian and
Viennese Leather Goods,
Parian Marble Eigures,
and all varieties of
FANCY GOODS AND TOYS.
I
INSPECTION INVITED.
Solh.© 23a,zsi,ax
352 George Street.
Hay mar kef Auction Rooms
AND
FURNITURE BAZAAR
CORN EXCHANGE BUILDINGS,
124 GEORGE STREET.
The cheapest place in Sydney to purchase every
description of Household Furniture.
£ST" HOUSES FURNISHED on the Time-payment
System.
WEEKLY or MONTHLY instalments taken.
Open— Mondays and Wednesdays, 9 to 9
Saturdays . . . . 9 to 10
Tuesdays and Fridays . . 9 to 6
JOHN P. LISTER, Proprietor.
mr THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:—SEVEN PER CENT,
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPW ARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
I. V. WAREHAM, Manager.
PURE COUNTRY HULK.
IJIHE MILK SUPPLIED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being'
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country district tg, as
free from city contaminations.
Buffer.
This is either manufactured at their own d ep6t
or obtained from the best butter-makers in the
Southern dairy districts.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butt ex by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
21 HARBOUR STREET.
J. MASSEY & SON,
10 Park Street,
mm
;v
IMPORTERS
of
PIANOS,
by every maker
of renown, from
£26 and up-
wards.
AMERICAN ORGANS IN GREAT VARIETY
The latest, most Popular Music In Stock,
J. MASSEY & SON, -
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY.
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1863.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT, 3873
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund £12<,000
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John B ay, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Hon. Honry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. Roileston, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors: _ , _
Jas. Scroggie, Esq. | Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq
Manager:
F. A. A. Wilson.
Secretary :
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Wales:
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giralambone,
Gosfor'd, Nyngan, and Bourke.
London Branch : 158 Leadenhall-street.
Directors *
Edward Chapman, Esq. j Geo. P. Slade, Esq.
Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This hank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily. , . , _ ,
Bills negotiated and advances made against Wool
and other produce shipped to England for sale.
w.
KERR,
Watchmaker'
Jeweller,
and
Silversmith.
H
AS JUST OPENED HIS NEW PREMISES
544 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite the TOWN HALL,
With a magnificent stock of Diamond, Roman,
and Vienna Jewellery,
GOLD AND SILVER WATCHES & CLOCKS,
Football, Cricketing, and Trophy Speciality,
Note the Address—
t&r 644 GEORGE STREET.
tk Caterer, 1
99
TEMPORARY PREMISES :
110 SCing.street? Sydney.
GUNSLER, THE
CATERER”
“ guns'Ler the
CATERER’S”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER'S ”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
“ GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER THE
CATERER”
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
GUNSLER
Has decided to open in Syd-
ney, but premises such as he
desires are not now available.
He has therefore opened
temporarily at the above
address.
Name is a household word,
and his desire is to retain the
confidence of his customers,
who may rest assured that
the care and attention which
has made “Gunsler the
Caterer,” a household word
in the neighbouring colony
will be devoted to any and
every undertaking he may
enter into.
Staff of Cooks and Pastry-
cooks is the most complete of
its character in the colonies,
and their assistance wilt
enable the proprietor to
supply Shortbread, Jellies,
and every delicacy in such
style and at such modetat®
prices as has never been at-
tempted in this city.
Has a practical knowledge of
every branch of his business,
and consequently can gua-
rantee to every customer
thorough satisfaction, or at
any rate he will do his best
to deserve it.
Has much pleasure in offer-
ing to the public, for the
Christmas and New Year
Holidays, a few specialities,
and is confident they will
meet with universal approval
Also manufactures every
class of goods incidental to
the Catering business.
Make a special effort for the
supply of the finest brands
of French and English Con-
fectionery, for which he is
sole Agent in Australia.
Was the Special Caterer to
Sir George Ferguson Bowen,
to the Marquis of Normanby,
and Y.K. Club.
Is the leading Australian
Caterer.
Has the most complete staff
of thoroughly trained hands.
Is prepared to undertake
Catering Contracts to any
magnitude.
OHOOSE Y OUR PIANO
AT
CHARLES HUENERBEIN’S
178 Pitt Street.
BEST INSTRUMENTS ! CHEAPEST PRICES I
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
A CURE GUARANTEED.
NE
BRALNI
TR t ATM TNT' ~
kR. E. C. WEST’S NERVE & BRAIN TREAT-
t MENT.
A guaranteed specific for hysteria, dizziness, con-
vulsions, lits, nervous neuralgia, headache, nervous
prostration caused by the use of alcohol or tobacco
wakefulness, mental depression, softening of the
t rain resulting in insanity and leading to misery
dv 'cay, and death; premature old age, caused by
over-exertion of the brain or over-indulgence.
Each box contains one month’s treatment, ss.
or six boxes for 255.; sent by mail prepaid on
receipt of price. Wo guarantee six boxes to cure
>aEy case. With each order received for six boxes,
laoeompanied with 265., the purchaser will receive
rfibe nanufacturer’s written guarantee to refund
vfcbe money if the treatment does not effect »eure
Guarantees Issued by all chemists and druggists
Australis*


G-old. T I
V
(REGISTERED.)
9 SYDNEY ARCADE & 12 ROYAL ARCADE.
mum JEWEL®, CAFE EOLI WATCHES, k,
LATEST FASHIONS.
PEOM 30s.
Special Novelties, &c. Country Orders punctually attended to
Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street
(OVER PALING’S),
IS NOW OPEN, and the business carried on with the original state of Artists specially engaged by
Mr. 11. All branches of Photography executed in the most artistic style.
N.B. —BOYD (OVER PALING’S) has no connection, directly or indirectly, with any other Gallery
in the colonies.
L. E. HENDERSON, Manager,
A. GKES A£T!D _plS^XdA-TT-
or. J.
THE PEOPLE’S CLOTHIER,
WHITE and 11EGATTA SHIRTS? COLLAKS, TIES, and HOSIERY. Every article is marked
plain figures, and at VERY LOW PRICES.
pr Both shops are thorougly chock full. Come early and inspect the Stock in both shops.
I keep the LARGEST STOCK of WORKING MEN’S CLOTHING in SYDNEY to choose from*
Be sure you find the right shops, when requiring CLOTHING OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
J. J. Ryan, 760 George Street, Haymarket;
And 466 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Markets, near Market Street.
HAHKES AND COMPANY,
TATTERSALL’S HORSE BAZAAR
and
SALE YARDS,
CORNER of CASTLEREAGH and HUNTED
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sales Daily, or outside when required.
Horses kept at Livery; excellent accommodation
and fodder.
All kinds of Vehicles and Horses on Hire, day
or night.
Weddings and Picnic Parties supplied with good
carriages.
TRAMS SET DOWN AT THE DOOR.
Conveyances fitted with Hampers for Excursion
Parties.
Sale, Livery, and Let-out Department entirely
seDarate.
CARTON’S HOTEL,
SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Visitors will find SUPERIOR ACCOMMODA-
TION, at MODERATE CHARGES.
Near Railway Stations and Places of Amusements.
S. G. OLIVER, Proprietress.
Telephone No. 345.
THE NEW TOBACCO.'
THE NEW TOBACCO.
THE NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
The LION RED TAG is the NEW TOBACCO.
UNPRECEDENTED success follows the intro-
duction of the LION TOBACCO ; it is science
against ignorance, and science wins ; therefore,
organise, organise at once, so that everyone can
smoke a decent Tobacco like the favourite LION
TO BACCO, which combines a very superior qua lity
with a moderate price.
HEYPE, TOQBJAH & CO.,
YORK STREET. STI)VET
Schweppe’s Mineral Waters,
as supplied
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN AND ROYAL
FAMILY,
CAN be obtained of the principal Hotel-keepers,
Wine Merchants, and Chemists throughout
the colonies.
SODA-WATER, LEMONADE, GINGER ALE,
POTASS, LITHIA (for gout) SELTZER,
TONIC, MAGNESIA WATERS.
51 BERNERS-STREET, LONDON;
58 MARGARET-STRBET, SYDNEY.
SEARL & SOI9S,
NURSERYMEN, SEEDSMEN, BOUQUETISTS
And Artistic Floral Dinner-table Decorators,
3 and 5 GEORG E-ST REfeT MARKETS, SYDNEY:
Also,
BLAIR ATHOL NURSERY, PETERSHAM.
83T* Pelargoniums now in full bloom. Inspection
invited.
AIR-TIGHT SHOW CASE COMPY.,
67 GEORGS STREET WEOT.
SHOP,
OFFICE,
AND
Hotel-bar
FITTERS.
Air-tight
SHOW-
CASES
AT
LONDON
•PRICES.
Contractors to the Sydney Technological Museum,
[ Designs and Estimates Furnished on application.
HOT WATER BATHS
.HAIR' n?£:.->:• INC ; \'J '-iMAKW-ic; TSTAi L.SHMEN r
if. i5/T 139 \ I4f OXFORD '
HOUdfy Ycy/rx Y TS/UASOAY
32 COLLEGE STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
ARTIFICAL TEETH on the most approved Eng-
lish Principles, Fitted Painlessly, Perfect Mastica-
tion, Natural Appearance, and Comfort guaranteed
Stopping, Scaling, and Extractions skilfully
performed.
THE AUSTRALIAN
ObMnd Drill Company.
CONTRACTS will be undertaken by the above
Company to bore any sized holes, vertical or
horizontal, up to
3 INCHES, OR LARGER IF REQUIRED,
to any depth, at a reduction of 26 PER CENT
BELOW ANY PREVIOUS CHARGE.
The Company, in all cases, will find their own
fuel and water for drilling purposes, and will make
no charge for loss of diamonds or wear and tear on
plant, and will also provide we- rkmen engineers, &c.
The new duplex barrel, introduced into the
colony by Mr. J. Cogblan, will be used free of
charge to persons searching for minerals.
Mr. Coglan has every confidence, from his prac-
tical knowledge of the Diamond Drill, that he will
be able to give general satisfaction, as well as quick
despatch to all orders addressed to the
Temporary Offices, 311 George-street.
JOHN COGHLAN,
General Manager, pro. ton.
SH
Ingham’s
iDIuJuFERA
•. An the* , # \i ;
! L(ueenslano Cure 5 -
Asthma*Bronchitis j,
Coughs, *
jj jaTtt i w
Ic. Thomas Ingham
Rockhampton
—it-
&3
BULL-DOG ALE.—IT is not the clearness
or condition alone in BULL-DOG ALE
that preserves this brand first in public
estimation. Common bitter crude beers are
made very line, but no other brand has the
same mellow vinous character, the fullness on
the palate, and the great keeping qualities of the
BULL-DOG ALE. Consumers are therefore cau-
tioned against traders who for the sake of an
extra profit represent the common beers referred
to as equal in quality to BULL-DOG. CATTELL
& CO., Agents. Newcastle Agents: WOOD
BROTHERS & CO.
TATE BKOTHERS,
Auctioneers,
Stock, Station, and General Com-
mission Agents,
114 and 143 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for all kinds of Foreign & Colonial Produce.
GLASGOW FURNITURE WAREHOUSE,
CORNER OE PITT AND PARK STREETS.
JAMES PEARSON, successor to W. Alexander,
wishes to remind all old customers and the
Sublic generally that he has a large assortment of
•rawing, Dining, and Bed Room Furniture, also
Office Furniture, all of good quality and reason-
able in price. Inspection solicited.
W. M. WALLACE,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
EngUsb Papers and Magazines received W
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. 496 GEORGE BT.. SYDN®^'
WRIGHT, HEATON & CO.
(LIMITED),
GENERAL CARRIERS,
1 Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents.
HEAD OFFICE :
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
• k ■ •
' 'i'". •' ; *
CARRIERS TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
SOUTH WALES..
BRANCH OFFICES.
Southern District, N.S.W.:
Northern Line:
Townsville Ravenawood Junction
Charters Tower**"
Agents in Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M‘CT XiSjOCH & CO., LIMITS^-
IST Agf meins in all parts of the world*
3E2. ROWLANDg §,
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of ail kinds of iEratecS Waters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietr ir of Vigorints,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
