

THE CHRISTMAS
Bulletin
r r
8
8
4


HUDSON BROTHERS,
(LIMITED),
REDFERN WORKS, SYDNEY.
UNEQUALLED SAFETY. EXTREME SIMPLICITY. VW GREAT ECONOMY IN USE OF WATER.
£W~ LEAST POSSIBLE W T EAR OF ROPES.
m
«■
:
> ,
s*
/ ////Z
■ // / //, '/
Wmm7777v777777777///////
tn/f
SIMPLICITY OF MANIPULATION. SMOOTHNESS AND NOISELESSNESS OF MOTION.
FROM SHOCK CAUSED BY ABRUPT STOPPAGES. Estimates, Diagrams, &e., to be obtained at
HUDSON BROTHERS, Regent-street, Retlfern,
Sole Agents for
The ©tie H|draulic Elevators^
ALLAN A. HI ARSHALL ancT GO.,
niFOSTEES and MANUFACTURERS of
Biwm® GEAR, Brass & Nickel-plated SHOP FRONTS,
Ship and House Sanitary Ware, Pig and Sheet Lead, Spelter, &c,
££T Brass and Bell Founding, Finishing, Art Metal Work, Coppersmithing, Blacksmithing,
Plumbing, Gasfitting, Tank and Girder Building, Electric and Pneuinatie Bell-fitting
of every description.
BOULTON’S “FLUSH-OUT,” “VALVE,” & “PAN” CLOSETS, “VACUUM” WATER-WASTE
PREVENTERS, &c.
So/e Agents for Verity Bros. Patent Air Propellers, Exhaust Fan
Cowls, Gas Fires, Heaters, Warmers, &c.
SOU ACGORO WORKS, 8 Si S Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Full particulars and price on application.
SOLE IMPORTERS OF
og?§y Iron-framed Pianos I
CRAMPTON & BRUCE,
197 PITT STREET.
WSQO
Wi
'£3
issshe
fit
mm,
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
smith: orgah.
CKAMPTON & BRUCE,
*
197 PITT STREET
YANKEE DOODLE
OS
■ /
«2k^.*4S£s3lE
TWIST & PLUG
CONQUEROR
_
St
v
Hque
TOBACCO
YOX POPTTLII !! This mighty power has built the DLXSON’S great Tobacco Factory. How ? The
voice of the people declaring the YANKEE DOODLE and CONQUEROR Tobaccos their own
demanded the supply—Dixson and Sons responded—and hence a Tobacco Factory having no equal in
t,be southern Hemisphere, and consuming l the bulk of ail the Imported American Leaf Tobacco.
MEMO, to you from
in Pitt-st., lik].
To Residents in the Country.
You cannot do better than send down to us for Goods
whenever you want something nice and tasty, different
from what you can get in the country stores.
I®* Send down to us for our Catalogue, Self-measurement Guide, and Prices.
You will not be disappointed.
BE CAREFUL OF OUR ADDRESS
Hordern Brothers
209 and 211 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE & CO.,
II MB, ui mm MERCHANTS
397 GEORGE STREET,
68 and 113 YORK STREET, and 33 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AND AT
LONDON AND WOLVERHAMPTON, ENGLAND
SOLE AGENTS FOR ROBEY & CO., ENGLAND.
IMPORTERS OP
Engineers’ Tools, Pounders’ Materials, Ship Chandlery, Coad
Builders’ Materials, General Ironmongery, and Agricultural
Implements.
EXCISES*
Robey’s celebrated Portable Wind-
ing and Hoisting', Horizontal, and
Vertical Fixed.
Bpeciai Steam, Centrifugal, and
Force and Lift.
BOILERS.
Vertical and Horizontal.
MACHINERY.
Lathes, Drilling, Punching and Shearing, Shaping, Planing, Slotting and Screw
Machines. Massey’s unequalled Steam Hammers.
WOOD-WORKING MACHINERY.
Saw Benches, Circular and Band, Planing and Moulding Machines. Fret Baws. Gene fB
Joiners’ and Morticing Machines for both hand and steam-power.
English and American Agricultural Implements.
Single, Double, and Triple Furrow Ploughs, Harrows, Cultivators, Horse Hoes, Land Rollers, Hof*
Rakes, Reapers and Mowers, Chaff Cutters. Corn and Maize Crushers and Shelters, Threshing Maehin@ s '
Railway Contractors’ Material and Plant.
Coach Buildkks’ Sundries.—Axles, Springs, Woodenware, Leathers and Furnishings, Varnishes 91
Masuf y’s celebrated Coach Colours. ■
Large Stocks always on hand of Pig, Bar, Plate, Sheet, Angle and Tee Iron ; Galvanized, Corrug
and Plain Iron ; Solid Rolled I Joists.
Squatters’ Supplies.
Woolpacks, Sheep Shears, Oils, Raddle, Twine, Fencing Wire, Sheep Washing and Dam MakiJ^
Machinery.
Builders’ Ironmongery.
Loeks, Hinges, Nails, Screws, Sheet Lead, and Latest improvements in Carpenters’ Tools.
Particulars and Price Lists may he had en application to
BRISCOE, DRYSDALE AND CO..
397 George Street, Sydney.
W. W. CATER, Importer, 193 & 195 Pitt-stree*
ALL GOODS AT STRICTLY WHOLESALE PRICES.
CIATER’S system of importing all goods from the manufacturers, and retailing them at wbol^ 9
/ prices, is being thoroughly appreciated, as shown by our largely-increasing trade.
FRENCH MILLINERY, MANTLES, COSTUMES, SILKS, SATINS, LACES, GLOVES, AND
DRAPERY OF ALL KINDS, AT WHOLESALE PRICES.
Our Introduction of G’.ove-flttipg at the counter as done in Paris, is a great suc3ess VYe 1,(1
now both Lady and Gentlemen litters engaged.
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR FITTING.
THE LARGEST AND BEST STOCK TO Sl-.LECT FROM.
WHOLESALE PRICES.
W. ■W. CATEE,
19 3 and 195 PITT STREET-
SHEARSBY a C©
ay
Merchant Tailors, Habit, and fSofo® takers*
Trousers from 21s. to 40s.
N.B.—Mr. SHEARSBY, for the last five years, was HEAD CUTTER at Farmer an< ! (l ’
W. Sheab«by & Co., Af®iort House, Temple Court, Eli/.al)u


THE BULLETIN
CHRISTMAS NUMBER, with Coloured Supplement.
Vol. 2.—No. 85—New Series.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1884.
Price—6d.
ONE CHRISTMAS DAT.
BY J. FAREELL.
[For The Bulletin]
PART I.
Beauty and the Beast.
was Summer i n
the land of Aus-
tralia, and “the
sun was as a men-
ace staring from a
sky of brass.” Out
on the brown bar-
renness of the
plains the air hung
in a blue film, and,
among all the sad
dark trees of the
bush, there was no
stir and no sound.
The magpies spoke
not; the minahs
drowsed in the tree - tops ; everything ani-
mated lay torpid and gasping, and everything
inanimate seemed petrified into a hueless stone.
In the stubble paddocks of the selecters, where
the white dead trees had little patches of
wheat which had escaped the reaping machine
yet standing at their roots, the horses gathered
at each available spot of shade, and stood
close together, heads and tails, after the man-
ner of their kind, so that each tail might be
used to a double purpose. And nothing showed
any sign of life, but these tails, whose measured
movement swept the half-dead flies from the eyes
and backs of the sleepy beasts. Or when one of
the horses, roused to a sudden sense of iDjury by a
lack of reciprocity in some other horses tail, at-
tacked his companion with teeth and hoof. The
hideous frill-lizard picked out the hottest and
barest spot available, and bathed in the sun all
day, too idle and happy to get out of the way of
any approaching danger, and having only energy
enough left in such a case to expand his ridiculous
collar, and look a good deal like the portraits of
Sir Francis Drake. All nature seemed to lie m a
hot, uneasy sleep.
For November, with the smell of its hay and the
voices of its birds, had gone—November, when
the indignant magpie on its high branch, noting
the proximity to its callow young of the unskilled
horseman underneath, “ came with its wings
aslant” and swooped upon him, and made his
horse “ shy ” and dislocate him, and then triumph-
antly left him to “ unpack his heart with words, and
fall a cursiDg like a very drab while the horse
leisurely cantered off. November, when the high
grass in unstocked paddocks, and in all
and unknown lanes, blown down upon by the warm
breath of the North, seemed to run aw ay bke the
waves of a yellow sea. November, with whose
last days, the terrible sickle-like grass seed entered
the socks of the people, and bored its sad and
cankering way into the bones of their legs , ana
whose dying hours were made “*h aft
the moan of many mosquitoes. In one month all
the greenness had vanished, and anything o
bloom or blossom that had been. In four short
tiery weeks, the shallow waterholes of White
Horae Creek, had dried up and left mud bottoms,
widely cracked into irregular shapes by the beat—
with here and there a fast evaporating pool of
stagnant dregs, wherein shoals °t tadpoles palpi-
tated and died in the merciless light. December
holding its white unbearable sky over all bad
reignea nearly a month, and it was Christmas Fvo.
That day there was consternation in the house-
hold of Dobbs. There was a frantic demand for
soda, and a wild kneading of dough. Fora large
and bearded man had appeared at the stack-yard
about eleven o’clock. He regarded tbe wheat-
stacks with critical eyes, pacing the distance De
tween them once or twice’. *Then he slouched over
towards the farmhouse, and when Marjory H°c>ds
came forth to learn his business be imparted to
her in a half-reticent sort of way-with an air of
worse remaining behind - a sort of break-it gent y
marmer? that the Thrasher was coming that even-
ing and that Dobbs pore was required to come over
with three borses m the course of a
couple of hours to help them to shift Jt. Ana as
he rather awkwardly took himself away, he said,
with the air of a man slowly committing something
to memory, “Miss, tell yer father that the:m theer
-stacks is too-near f,b e - fe . nce > a ?d tall bim to
pull the-thing down.” Ma £°ry Jfor ?he
naturally (rive nee to, in l* l ®, m ™r D a
smccch Was he tongue-tied, she thougnt, or a
little—just a little —drunk ? But he was neither.
He had nobly striven, finding himself conversing
with a young girl, to weed the Pression, b ' e
out of his discourse entirely, and to this end he
had to go very steadily over the gaps which it
usuallv tilled. He had quite succeeded, but as he
went back, across the paddocks, he seemed rather
dubious, for he said to himself “ She seemed sort
o’ scared, I’m sorry I didn’t say ‘damn’ just once
or'twice. I fancy I overdid it. She looked as if she
thought me mad.” Then a sharp stick lying in the
grass “ grasped the skirts of the happy chance,
and arose and smote him on the shin. And he
cursed sonorously and unreservedly, and walked
on looking much relieved.
On pretty Marjory’s face there was deep vexation
as she entered the kitchen, to tell the unwelcome
tale. Truly the ways of Threshers were vexatious.
Many times this dread Machine, had thrown the
Dobbs womenfolk into confusion. Twice it had
been definitely arranged that it was to be with
them the next day. Then the wood had been
chopped small for the engino’.by Marjory’s father,
and bread in large quantities with a wealth of
soda in it, and mountains of lunch-cakes rendered
inconceivably villainous by carraway-seeds, were
hastily prepared for the enemy by Marjory and
her mother. And, when the arrangements were
tolerably complete it would be suddenly announced
that the Thresher had gone five or six miles away
in an entirely different direction. Then the tired
women would covertly use up the nice short
engine-wood for culinary purposes, and the bread
and lunch-cakes would be given to the pigs, who
would promptly die, and a certain amount of cool-
ness between man and| wife would ensue, Why
Threshers move in this inscrutable way we know
not; but, in the words of the sweet singer of
Mossman’s Bay.
We shall know these things, maybe,
When the dead rise from the sea.
And when the announcement was made by Mar-
jory to her mother and sister of the coming of the
machine-men, there was. as we have said, conster-
nation in the house of Dobbs, on this Christmas
Eve. There was a baling of water out of the
barrel which stood on a triangular piece of wood,
formerly the fork of a tree, into saucepans and
coppers: there was a hurried ferreting out of pan-
nicans and handleless mugs and saucerless cups.
And in the midst of it Marjory’s mother found that
she had not half knives and forks enough, and
told Ma-jory to slip down toJMurray’s and borrow
all they could spare.
While Marjory was petulantly peeling two or
three last potatoes prior to starting on her errand,
and thinking how hot it would be, and what a nuis-
ance everything was, Tom Murphy, the Feeder,
and her devoted slave, rode up to the panels,
where he lightly dropped off his horse, and hitch-
ing it up, walked over to the kitchen.
And here let us tell you something of Feeders
in general, before we deal with Tom. The feeder
of a threshing-machine in the days we write of,
some twenty years ago. was a personage who for a
couple ef months, in the purely agricultural dis-
tricts, took precedence of everyone save the
Creator, and in his own opinion ran Him very close
indeed. In all matters pertaining to the machine,
or the work ir. was doing, or the number of men it
required, or where it was to go next, the owner
nearly always consulted the Feeder, who was
mostiy scornful but approachable. The begrimed
and smutty myrmidons who filled the minor posi-
tions at the machine grovelled before the leeder,
who wore two or three silver rings on his lingers,
and a hat with a blue veil on it, and mixed very
little with them save in the way of business.
Tom Murphv was .not in the fullest sense of the
word a good Feeder, inasmuch as he only knew a
few easv oaths, and could really fight anyone on
White Horse Creek. He was a fine young Irish-
man, who had come out quite penniless a few
years before, and selected ground in the neighbour-
hood. The other selectors did all they could to
help him, and this, added to the strong self-help of
the young fellow, had the result of leaving him,
on this Christmas Eve, the owner of a fairly good
farm and in fairly good circumstances. And this,
added to the fact of his being young and good-
looking, had the result of making Marjory Dobbs
pay “ yes ” when he mentioned a certain matter to
her. She was an average girl.
Tom when he entered, took all the slight liberties
of an accepted lover, with a good glad light in his
eyes, and Marjory grew more reconciled to the
coming trouble when she reflected that it would
bring Tom closer to her side for a few days, and
help to show the world the power of beauty over a
big strong fellow. But her sister Jane (cetafc 14,
and as yet unloved) looked resentfully at her as
Tom was teasing her and pulling her about. She
hated the whole lot of them, but looked forward
to the wedding—which was to take place before
ploughing time—as a bright opportunity for
prunella boots and book muslin ; a time when, in
the general excitement and happiness, she might
have a good chance to get a whole lot of things at
the store in the township. So she only grated her
teeth and snorted disdainfully, and went on rolling
out paste with a bottle, while Tom told Marjory—
which was an infernal lie—that he was not aware
that Jim (who was the chief Bandcutter, by-the-
way) had come to tell them, &c. &c. And that
they were just shoving the “sweepings up ” of the
stack through at Johnson’s, and he wasn’t wanted,
so he thought he'd take a run across, &c.'&c. And
to hear these things did Marjory so seriously in-
cline, or to hear other things-that she wont out
with him to the gate, and stood there listening to
him, till Jane, coming to the door with the flour
up to her elbows, to see what kept her, felt so mad
on going in again that she threw a colander
through the open window to a distance of forty
yard, sand on being remonstrated with, told her
mother to shut up.
By and bye, Marjory returned, and went to her
little rouirh room to
beautify herself, where-
from she soon returned,
havinpr over her shoul-
ders a wonderful rainbow
of woolwork, called, we
believe, a cloud, and In
her hand a basket where-
in to carry the knives and
forks. She passed out at
the panels, and took her
way towards Murray’s,
determining to avoid clambering over log fences,
and go by the more lengthy way which led past
the homestead of White Horse Creek station.
This station had of old monopolised all the land
about. Dick Blitter, the original owner, by a
splendid system of cattle-dulHng and an intimacy
with the very highest possibilities of human vil-
lainy, had grown rich and respected. In his old
age ho had turned religious—“found the Lamb
he termed it, and, having always had considerable
aptitude for finding sheep, the phrase was good-
lowered the wages and reduced the rations of all
his men, forbade kangaroo-hunting on [the Lord’s
Day, built a little Wesleyan church on the station
ground, cheated the men who burnt the bricks for
it out of half their money, and so led a good con-
servative sort of life, and so died, and is at present
very probably damned.
He left the station intestate, and, after years of
legal troubles, it had been lately sold to a young
fellow from Melbourne, the son of a wine and
SDirit merchant, who was going in for squatting.
But tho place was not as of yore. Time had dilapi-
dated the noble house and dishevelled the fine gar-
den, and Sir John Robertsom’s Act had despoiled the
acreage. So that when’young Hubert Wilson took
possession of his new home, his first impression
was of disappointment, which impression gra-
dually-remained.
His conduct was a marvel to the simple farmers.
He never did anything, or had been known to do
anything, but go shooting or kangarooing. He
put two men on to grub a piece of land which was
no good whatever, and which did not want grub-
bing, and which, moreover, they did not attempt
to grub. And these two men, to the envy of all
other honest toilers, were paid by the week. He
kept a gardener, also, who was old, deaf, rheu-
matic, and insulting, and who fiercely resented
anything approaching even a suggestion to do
anything. In addition, there were two other re-
tainers, fine open hearty fellows, who never made
any pretence of work, but could be found at
almost any hour of the day or night deep in the
mysteries of High, Low, Jack, and the Game. He
bought a few high-class cattle, and put them in
some of the paddocks, and, seeming to consider
this the whole duty of a squatter, he calmly let
everything go to the devil.
In public he was seen but little* and that little
impressed everyone rather unfavourably—that is,
everyone with any sense or decency. For Instance,
when he was asked to sign a petition which was
placed at the Farmers’ Arms in the township for
signature, and which set forth that they (the peti-
tioners) as ,in 'duty bound did ever pray that some
flatulent mudheau who happened to be right for
sheep should be made a J.P., he flippantly declined,
and said the old party might go to blazes.
As Marjory came upon the path leading up to
the house, she was thinking—in a maidenly and
pure sort of way, no doubt, but still thinking—of
all the work that was to be done; of all the mouths
that wore to be fed; of all the weak and semi-
sugarless tea that was to be bucketed out to the
men in the ensuing three or four days. And ,os
she thought, thus she crossed the range of vision
of a pure-bred bull, who was standing in the shade
trying to keep the sand-flies out of his eyes, and
wondering what the devil sort of a place this was to
bring a good bull to, anyway. He stopped think-
ing, and glared at her. She wore a scarf in which
—he could scarely credit it at lirßt—was a large
percentage of red—actually. Bed. All the blood
of Jail the Boyal Butterflies boiled in his veins at the
sight of this wanton outrage to his finer feelings,
and he “ wont for” the offending maiden as if she
had been the proverbial gate, uttering one wild
bellow as he wont.
If Marjory had been a heroine she would, as
soon as she grasped the situation, have fixed her
glorious eyes on the advancing brute and quelled
him by her splendid beauty and courage. But in
taking the course she did (for the nearest fenoe)
she showed clearly that she was an average girl.
She ran wildly, despairingly, dropping her scarlet
cloud as she ran. The bull stopped to give it the
passing tribute of a toss, and followed. Pursuer
and pursued were nearing each other, when the
sharp report of a gun was heard, and the beast
leaped high in the air, and fell to the earth pierced
by a bullet. At the same time Marjory awooned
promptly.
Under the circumstances it was a real swoon.
But Marjory was bush-bred, and your country
maidens do not, as a rule, faint about much, or
stay there long. In a few minutes she had re-
covered consciousness, and was aware that she was
being carried towards the big house in the arms of
no less a personage than Hubert Wilson himself.
This being so, after very slight consideration, she
determined to swoon again, and did it.
“Here, Bob !—Joe!” cried the master, gently
depositing her on a lounge on the broad verandah,
“ fetch water, or brandy, or something—this lady
was chased by a bull, and is insensible—hurry,
can’t you ?” The two men seemed utterly con-
founded by the unusual sight of a female, but in
a moment or two Joe disappeared in the parlour,
and came forth again bearing a decanter of
brandy and a huge tumbler. At the same time
Bob came from the pump with a bucket of water
—on the surface of which appeared floating the
Nine of Clubs and the Aoe of Hearts. Joe poured
out half a tumbler of the liquid, and, with
Hubert’s assistance—very tenderly rendered—got
her to swallow a little of it, while Bob hovered
close by watching for a ohance to pour the bucket
of water over her. Seeing this, and knowing that
the water would ruin her dress, Marjory slowly
unfainted, and, opening her eyes, demanded (after
the manner of the Family Realer heroines)
where she was, and what had happened, and how
dared anyone lay hands on her.
But Hubert smiled in his kindly way, and told
her how he had been fortunate enough to shoot
the bull which was pursuing her, and how glad he
was to have been of the least help to her.
Marjory allowed herself—being an average girl
—to gradually recolleot. And she let her sweet
brown eyes grow misted with tears. How noble
it was of him to kill his poor bull to save her life 1
—and how wrong of her to trespass on his ground,
—and would he ever forgive her, and he was her
preserver, and she would ne-ne-ver forget his
bravery in saving her. All that sort of thing.
Average stuff. From the Family Reader, most
of it.
Hubert smiled away down in his manful heart at
the palpable “ frill” whieh the girl put on. But
he was a gentleman, and he merely regretted that
there were no ladies in his household to render
Marjory better comfort under the trying circum-
stances than he had done; and, having sent Joe to
fetch back her cloud, he offered to accompany her
to the confines of his paddocks so that she might
feel more assured. And, being an average girl,
she gladly accepted his escort, although she knew
that the place was now absolutely bull-less.
And they talked together of the season and the
place and its people—he with a wonderful easiness
and familiarity, and she carefully andjln a Family
Reader manner. And when the last fence was
before her, he shook hands frankly with the girl
(she thought there was a mining pressure in his
strong hand), and said he would oome over to see
the threshing-machine at work at her father’s on
the morrow, as it was Christmas Day, and he had
nowhere else to go to.
And the conversation of the Murrays—to whom
Marjory related her adventure with amplifications
—seemed very vulgar to her, and the knives sad
forks very sordid. And, os she went back, her
brain—her average brain—was busy with plans for
making all her clothing show at its be3t and most
ladylike on the morrow, to win the eye of
Tom ? No—Tom was of the past.
PART 11.
“ To Dusty Death.”
At Johnson’s they were putting the last of the
stacks through or proparatoly to shifting over to
Dobbs’. The First Bandoutter, dimly visible in
the heart of a vortex of red dust, was raking and
sweeping up into big sheets, which, being full,


were raised on the points of many pitchforks, and
emptied into the “ drum,” the debris of the
sheaves and the loose grain that had been scat-
tered about in the process of threshing. Veiled
figures, with sore eyes and rebellious hearts, every
now and then emerged from the aureole of husks
and particles, hauling chaff or “ cavings” off re-
luotantly. Tom Murphy, also, had come back, and
was over helping the bagman to sew up the bags
Crammed to the mouth with wheat, when Juker
arrived.
, Everyone about AYhite Horse Creek knew that
Juker was the worst kind of a fool. He was in the
habit of saying “’threshing-machine’ instead of
Thrasher,” Which alonelsnook the public confi-
dence in him. But when he made the grave error
Of talking about a rise in the price of breadstuffs,
and, growing bolder, spoke, in the presence of
assembled persons, about Ensilage, White Horse
Creek turned on its heel, and pronounced him a
gory jackass. He had a little selection, with a
iittie nut on it, in which he lived somehow, doing
hardly any work, but mixing with his fellows a
good deal, and pointing out the only ways by
which farming could bo made to pay in Australia.
He was, In fact, asort of Consulting Cockatoo, who
went from place to place, and made an exhibition
of himself iu the eyes of men.
To-day he had come over to crush Johnson with
au article in the Town and Country Journal
about rotation of crops, aud to impress upon him,
before it was too late the ruinous course he was
pursuing with regard to lucnrne. He was a pesti-
lent idiot, who, always and everywhere, set about
to rectify everything in a swooping manner. He
had not been at Johnson’s half-an-hour before he
divcovered that there had been a lot of wheat lost
in the chaff—that the "smutter” had not been work-
ing properly—that the wheat was cracked shame-
fully— aDd that nobodv knew anything about
threshing-machines. Once he had endeavoured,
iu a voice which could not be heard amid the roar
of the machine, to tell the “ chaffy” where he was
wrong in something; but that sooty and unthank-
ful ruffian had menaced him. In dumb show, with
an uplifted rake, and gone steadily on in his erro-
neous courses Then he-hung around the unre-
sistisig Johnson, and harrassed him with new
ideas, until he was borne over to the house and
bought off with whisky. And it was not until
after the long whistle which announced the finish
"MARJORY! IN GOD’S NAME, WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH YOU?"
of the work had blown, and the men were paid off,
and preparing to depart for Dobbs’, that he re-
membered he had been given some letters by the
stwrekeeper in the township—who was also post-
master—to deliver to the machine men. Jim, the
first bandcutter, on recognising among the enve-
lopes the writing of his intended (who was a cook
In Sydney, by t he way), demanded promptly why
the h he hadn't given them their letters before,
and had less of his b lip, and so forth. And
there was one—the address of which was, “ care.
Sf wife horse Creek, Australia”—for Tom, which
e carried away in haste, and read and re-read in
the shadow of the straw-stack.
It was from his sister—his poor, timid, untaught
little sister, who was coming to him from Ireland,
to be near him for ever. A mostphonetio and ill-
written epistle, which Tom kissed reverently and
tenderly, as the pure, sweet woman who wrote it
should be kissed—a letter in which the nib of the
pen had frequently stuck and exploded, and scat-
tered spots of ink widely about, converting im-
perfect e’s into the most unexpected i’s, and com-
plicating things very much—a letter which, in a
few laboriously-written words, told this : That
she had got the money he sent—that ehe had been
to their mother’s grave to kneel there and pray
before she went-tbat she felt verv sad and lonely
at leaving all she knew and crossing the strange
great sea— that she had givou some of the money
to have the grave always kept in repair and
flowers sown on it -that she wouli start in a few
days, and honed soon to be with him—and that she
hoped that God and His angels would watch over
him always. On the whole, not much of a letter,
but enough to make Tom's heart beat as wildly as
the most lofty eloquence could have done.
With this letter in bis hand, Tom, after having,
as was the duty of a Feeder, seen the “ Mill” (as
the threshing part of the machine is called) fixed
up for transit, gave it into the charge of his com-
rade and sworn ally, the First Bandcutter, and
started rapidly to go across the bush by a short
cut to Dobbs’. He was impatient to tell the good
news of his sister's coming to Marjory. He had
built up in his mind a future, at which he and
Marjory often looked together—he with a large
love for his sister, and an ample thank, fulness to
his fortune—she with an average complacency, as
on© who savs of a thing* “ that’s Rood enough,’
no more. But Tom was not a keen analyst or the
female heart, and it seemed natural enough that
the two women should love each other as he loved
both.
When he charged into the kitchen in his impe-
tuous way, Marjory, “ with one red rose in her
hair,” or one geranium, or one flower of some
sort, was leaning against a safe looking ladylike
and discontented, while Jane was wrathf ally hang-
ing a black bucket on the fire.
Tom clasped her in his arms exultantly, thereby
causing the flower to fall to the floor, and disar-
ranging her head-gear;noticeably. Crossly enough,
Marjory pushed him from her, and essayed to pick
up the flower, which unfortunately had been trod-
den upon by Tom, and consequently was now use-
less as a thing of beauty.
“ Don’t look so angry, darlin’,.” he said, noticing
some subtle difference in her manner; “ don’t
mind the flower—sure you only made the-poor
thing look ugly wearin’ it so near your face. I’ve
got la letter from Nellie ; she’s coming at last :
read it out, darlin’, for you’re better at it than I
am.”
Angry with him, with herself, with her disre-
spectful sister, and with the fate which placed her
in a kitchen to cook for harvest men, indignant at
the loss of her flower, and choking with resent-
ment as she was, Marjory was sensitive to the
“ blarney” (which was sincerely meant, though),
aud in a half-pettish voice, which showed signs of
relenting, answered: “ Well, if you want me to
read it, I will; but you might be a little less bois-
terous and more gentlemanly, even if you are
Irish.”
Tom had heard Marjory talk thus often before
in banter, as it were, andiharmlessly. But there
was an indeflnab'e something in her now that
smote him with d sudden pain. He gave her the
letter, and she took it to the window, and slowly
unfolded it, and after regarding it with knotted
eyebrows for a few minutes, said with a slight
giggle
“ What peculiar orthography ! Really you
must excuse me if I have to go over it slowly :
My dearest brother ’—she soells ‘ dearest ’ d-e-r-s-t,
Jane—* I got the—money I suppose she means, but
it is sualt ‘m-u-n-e’—’l will come out by the
* Norway’ —what’s this? Something about
‘ mothers grave ’ oh 1 She wants to have—what's
it? ‘f-l-o-u-r-he 1 he ! flour on her mother’s
grave ! I thought Mr Murphy, that you were more
careful of flour in Ireland than—”
In her shallowness and heartlessness—in her
miserable average oversight of the true and noble
—she had read on thus, in a flippant scornful way,
without seeing how much too far she was going.
And Tom’s voice was low and hoarse as he said.
“ Marjory in God’s name what is the matter with
you ? Why do you try to hurt me ? ”
“Why do you bring me your letters to read, if
they hurt you ? ” she answered coldly; "I think it
hurts me most, trying to make out your sifter's
writing.” She saw that the step was Irrevocably
taken now, and went on recklessly—l hope God
will bless—my graoious I She spells * bless ’ with
one s. I don’t wonder now that you had to bring
it to me to read for you.”
“ Woman,” Tom shouted “ you are a liar and a
wretch. Give me it”—clutching the letter—“you
are not fit to touch it I I will never see you or
speak to you again.”
So he strode out, and so they parted. Tom with
his breast as a living coal, scarcely knowing where,
but instinctively taking the direction of his own
home. He knew they would not want him that
evening, as they could not get the machine set
and started, and he also knew that he could depend
upon Jim to do anything needful in his place. He
thought of these things as he went, momentarily,
in the tempest of anger and pain that was within
him. For he was loyal to any trust, and if need
had been would have gone back even to Marjory’s
presence to discharge any duty.
Arrived at his house-it was small and poor,
yet he had been happy in it—he entered in, and sat
down in the gathering shade of the evening to
calm himself and think. To him for evermore
Marjory must be as one dead; for nothing that
could happen woulchinduce him to overlook her
conduct—her trampling down of what was so
sacred to him—and, he had thought, to her. He
seemed as one in a dream, and sat there striving to
fathom why this had happened—why Marjory who
had seemed so good to him, had proved so base—
so shameful. For he knew well she was but act.iog
a part—he felt that she knew herself mean and
cowardly and false; and in vain—wholly in vain—
he strove to divine why she had been so. Late in
the night, when the solemn note of the mopoke
sounded dreamily far away in the warm woods,
he lighted his littie slush lamp—a contrivance
peculiar to the agricultural profession in its in-
cipient stages, and composed of a jam tin filled
with fat, and having tor a wick a piece of rag
wrapped around a stick in the centre—and read
over Nellies letter again and grew more comforted.
And accidently glancing over the envelope he
made a discovery that cheered him still further
—that, owing probably to the vague address, the
letter had been a fortnight in Sydney, and his
sister ought now to be landed.
Marjory when he had gone went to her roomt
and had a good cry over his brutality and clown-
ishness. and wondered between her sobs how she
could have been so silly as to have cared for
him. But Jane, who was more than ever disgusted
with her now the prospect of wedding festivities
had grown fainter, came and roused her out, and
said she’d go and tell mother if she didn’t come
and help her to fix the things for tea. So with her
hair done up a different way, by way of experi-
ment, Marjory came forward again and toiled
sullenly along with her vixenish sister.
About the transit of the “ Thrasher ” there had
been trouble. The usual trouble. On the road
between Johnson’s farm and Dobbs’, O’Rourke’s
shanty was. And the Thrasher had to go on that
road. And it is a known fact that no Thrasher
ever yet passed a shanty without serious delay,
and bickerings, concluding in gloomy bloodshed.
It cametopass that as Jim; the first Bandcutter,
was coming along the road in charge of the mill,
he was halled from the door of O'Rourke’s by the
Cavings man, who had walked across the paddocks,
and invited to come and have a drink. This he
proceeded to do, after bringing his lumbering load
to a standstill in the middle of the road. The
Cavings man had not been there many minutes,
and had not yet been inside the shanty, but he had
recognised within it, among a noisy crowd of
drinking men, the Feeder of Ryan’s “Thrasher”—
the opposition machine; so, being a strictly
honourable machine man, he said to Jim in a low
voice, as the latter approached. “Ryan's Mick’s
inside—let’s bash him fFor it was a harmless and
well-understood custom for these rivals to “ bite
their thumbs ” at each other and fight to the death
every time they met. Jim said” we’ll see who’s
there first, and I’ll give you the—office. I'd like
to belt the—animars—head off, anyway.” From
which it will be seen that Jim had quite recovered
all his old fluency of speech. They went in, and
elbowing up to the bar called for a pint of beer
each. The place was full of men in all stages of
drunkenness, each saying something at the top of
his voice, and nobody listening to anything. Ryan’s
Mick was telling of the strange experiences, and
wonderful exploits of Ryan’s Mick—he spoke of
himself as the third person in grammar always,
and regarded himself as almost the third person in
the Trinity. One of his subordinates only was
sober enough to dissemble, and pretend to pay
attention to him. This was his Chaffy: and as these
two were engaged with each other, neither of them
noticed Jim or the Cavings artist, and most of the
others did not know them at all. So when they
had swallowed and paid fortheir pints, Jim nudged
his companion, and they oame forth again. “ It’s no
go, now" he said; “we'll wait till some more of our
boys come along. Then see if I don’t make that
’s hair and skin fly.’’ They went across to the
“ mill” again, and pretended to be busying them-
selves about it, while they watched the stronghold
of their enemies, and waited for their friends. In
a little while they saw their own Chaffy coming
across the paddock. He did not exactly count. He
was a timid creature who was suspected of believ-
ing in religion, and who carried a comb and brush
around in his swag, and was understood to object
to washing hit clothes on Sunday. As a man, he
was of no consequence, but as a machine-man,
his reception by Ryan’s men would be significant.
They saw him enter O’Rourke’s—another of his
conspicuous bad points was never drinking any-
thing stronger than ginger wine and a few
minutes after they saw him cast forth snd
trampled under foot and left for dead by the
Chaffy of the other machine, who looked over to-
wards Jim and his mate as one lingering for fresh
worlds to conquer, and snorted defiantly before
going in again. This sight so inflamed the Cavings
man that he wanted to rush off to death or vic-
tory, but Jim restrained him.
“ See here,” he said, “ I will run this thing for
Tom. He left me in charge, and you leave it to
me, If you go there, they’ll chaw you up and
we’ll be licked. Nice thing that would, be.
wouldn’t it! Don’t you be a fool; leave it to
me.”
Then almost at once the cart, with the elevators
packed on it, hove in sight, and with it seven or
eight of Tom Murphy’s party—the very pick of it.
This was a Joyful event, and as soon as they were
near enough Jim went over and told of "the
great insult done ” the Chaffy, and incited them as
machine-men to vindicate their honour. He
pointed to the body which lay face downward out
in the sun, and with set teeth and quivering
muscles they followed him over as one.
“ Ryan’s Mick ” saw them and knew what it
meant. He gave the alarm and rallied his men to
do battle. As he was,alßo nor destitute of thresh-
ing-machine honour, he sallied forth first, and
recognising Jim as Tom's viceroy, went for him.
The conflict was terrific, as both were plucky and
strong; but by the time that the Cavings man had
drigged forth the insensible body of Ryan’s
Chaffy, and thrown him in the sun beside their
own, Jim had reduced his enemy.
Inside, the carnage and ruin were great. Ryan’s
men had been completely decimated. A cask of
beer had had the tap knocked outiin the struggle,
and the wounded lay on a floor covered with beer
and blood. The upfortunate O’Rourke himself was
stricken down early in the fight by the Straw-stack
man of Tom’s party, who supposed him to be
Ryan’s Straw-stack man. And the bullocks had
taken advantage of the general trouble to wander
off with the mill, and wind themselves around a
tree, and get into a hopeless confusion, and finally
lie down in their yokes snd chew their cud.
When Mr. Dobbs came along, soon after, with
the engine, for which he had brought his horses
over earlier—he was bailed up by the victorious
party and made to shout liberally, as it was Christ-
mas Eve. And the Engineer (who could take his
little drop) took the opportunity of telling some
wonderful feats which he had performed in his
youth. Thus it came to pass that it was almost
dark before the engine and mill got away from
before O'Rourke’s. The Engineer had mounted on
the engine, wherefrom he loudly sang sentimental
songs, varying this performance with appeals to
Mr. Dobbs to stop the horses till he came down to
fight him. The Caving’s man, who was very drunk,
had been put in the elevator-cart, but on arriving
at Dobbs’ it was found that he had fallen out
somewhere along the road, and been lost.
With the assistance of the few who were sober
enough to assist, the engine and machine-were
rougnly put in their places, the final fixing of them
being deferred until morning. Jim was surprised
at Tom's absence, but made no remark about it, as
ho knew there must be some good reason for hi
being away.
If an agricultural destiny had seemed a poor one
to Marjory ever since noon, it grew actually repul-
sive at night, as she poured out very inferior tea
from a three-gallon tea-pot into the pannicans of
perspiring ana half-drunken roughs, with stubbles
of two weeks’ growth on their chins—with ctaatf
in their tangled hair—with popular oaths on their
tongues: men whose mouths accommodated four
inches of knife-blade every time they opened
them, who “ ate like horses when you hear them
eat,” who never said “ thank you ” when helped,
and who seemed dead to the influence of Beauty
and Back Hair and Ladylike Bearing. It was too
hard to bear. The humourist of the machine, when
Marjory had accidentally dropped a piece of meat
from off one of the plates into his lap, said to her:
“ Chuck yer rubbish where yer chucks yer love,”
which new and acute witticism set the table in a
roar. And they joked with one another about fall-
ing in love with her—that is the younger men did
—the Bag-sewer having accused the Oiler and
Rouseabout, whose eye was much swelled by a
blow received in the sbanty, of winking at her,
which convulsed the audience. And another, one
of the sheaf-staek hands, a most villainous-look-
ing scoundrel, with a hare lip and a pug nose,
ugliness and vice were proverbial, bad said
it was no use if he did, as the young lady had
winked at him. And the older men merely said to
her; “Here, Missus, don’t listen to their yab-
bei-, shove some more spuds along this way.”
Truly they were very coarse, and poor Marjory
felt fit to tear them with her nails, and found a
little comfort in the fact that the corned beef
which they were devouring was quite unfit for
human use.
That night, while Mr. Dobbs sleeplessly kept
sentry over his stacks, to see that the half-intoxi-
cated sleepers did not wake and try to smoke
among the straw as they lav about—a serious dan-
ber always—she sat up in her little room reading
the conclusion of “ For Jemima’s Sake,” a thrilling
story of the Family Reader school, which
showed how Lord Augustus Fitz-Egrcmont, a
scion of one of the oldest peerages in England, had
raised a beautiful and virtuous housemaid to the
haughty position of Lady <Fitz-Egremont. This
consoled her for some of her previous misery.
She reflected that the distance between Hubert
Wilson and herself was not so wide as that. And
that she also was beautiful and virtuous. And it
is only justice to her to say that she was—to an
average extent.


Think and Act.— After many trials,
Mpasrs Halm and Oertel succeeded in preparing a
SSttoSSßsLemonade from Australian lemons
Thev discarded imported, unwholesome Oil or
Lemons. Give it a trial. /Erated-water works, 403
Pitt-street.*
Long before daylight on Christmas morning,
Tom had shaken up the men; and, such was his
power and determination, that by 8 o’clock, al-
though nearly half of them were missing-some
had gone back to O’Rourke’s to fight the battle
over again, the Cavings hero had not been heard
from, and the Straw-stack man was found on the
bank of the creek in a speechless condition, trying
to raise an empty square-gin bottle to his mouth-
all was ready for a start. Then the whistle was
blown for breakfast, while Dobbs pire rode away
to look up two or three of his neighbours who
would take the places of the missing men. Tom
stayed at the machine on purpese to avoid Mar-
jory_Certainly more out of consideration for her
than from any other motive, as he did not wish to
embarrass her, worthless though she was-and did
several repairs. He felt the need of activity—the
greatest possible activity—to quell the anger that
was in his heart. He intended at the first chance
to tell her father that all was at an end, and excuse
himself from taking his meals with the rest.
Immediately after breakfast, five or six neigh-
bouring selectors rolled up, and took their places
at the machine determined not to see Dobbs short-
handed, and Tom Murphy mounted the stage, and
took his place in the feed-box for the last time-
made his last appearance on any stage. Jim had
noticed a strong excitement in his friend all the
morning, but forbore questioning him. And now,
when the machine got fairly under-way,.he piled
the sheaves into the drum in a way that was un-
precedented. The four men on the ,sheaf-stack
worked like lions to keep him going, the knives of
the two band-cutters Hashed in the sun incessantly
as they flew through the bands and left the loose
sheaves in heaps on the feed-board. The reckless-
ness seized everybody. The engineer piled in dry
light wood, and ran the engine at a fearful speed.
Tne machine groaned and gulped and shook, as it
swallowed the big ehesves. and the elevators could
hardly carry up the mountains of straw which the
three men on the straw-stack vainly tried to keep
clear. The chatfv and cavings cursed and strug-
gled frantically, and the bag-sewer—a great artist
and a somewhat exclusive sort of fellow, in con-
sequence—was fairly beaten, and saw bag after
bag accumulate unsewn.
A few minutes before lunch-time Hubert Wilson
had come over, according to appointment. Mr
Dobbs had very warmly thanked him for rescuing
his daughter from danger; and as he had to go for
a load of water for the engine, he handed his visi-
tor over to Marjory, who took him to see the
machine at work.
You may be sure Marjory was as well got up as
circumstances would permit in point of dress;
and you will be prepared to hear that she quoted
Family Reader as much as possible—in fact,
cunningly worked in little parts of Jemimas
speeches from the novel of last night in most of
her replies to him. But he did not seem to notice
—although he did notiee—the uneven quality of
her conversation. As they walked over together,
he thought Hea 'en would forgive him if he ven-
tured to tell a lie to her, to save her from quoting
any further. So having led up to his point by tell-
ing her (wnich was true) that he had sold the sta-
tion, as he could see that it was not in his line, and
was going away, he imparted to her that he was
engaged to be married at Easter (which was not
true).
The effect was instantaneous, and Marjory con-
ducted the rest of the conversation (whloh, on her
part consisted mostly of replies) in the language
of White Horse Creek, to Hubert’s great relief.
But it was a bitter blow to her. She had been off
with the old love too soon—she had lost the sub-
stance and the shadow both. Bhe tried to main-
tain her composure and not faint in earnest, but
the struggle was hard. Her visitor asked so many
questions about everything that she had little
time to think of her own trouble; and, when he
aaked if he would be permitted to go up the ladder
and upon the stage of the maohine, she said he
would, and offered to accompany him. This was
against the rules, and was a silly and dangerous
thing; but it struck Marjory that, in that position,
Hubert would pose as her protector and lover,
and give Tom some more pain—which seemed to
be the only thing now left in the way of enjoy-
ment. She knew well that his pride would forbid
him to order her or Hubert not to come up.
Tom had seen them coming over together, and
all at once a pity for the girl had smitten him. He
saw now the reason of her altered behaviour to
himself clearly enough. He saw that she had an
average heart, which was for the highest bidder.
He knew Hubert well: they had gonekangarooing
together often, and the two men understood each
other. Tom knew Hubert too well to suppose he
would delude the poor silly girl, and quite com-
prehended how it was.
When Hubert came up on the stage Tom nodded
kindly, but spoke not-for no word could have
been heard there. But when Marjory followed,
and stood on the plippery floor among the sheaves,
he looked very sternly upon her with eyes that
made her cower. Hubert and she stood together
a moment amid the dust and the falling sheaves,
and the terrible sound of the machine watching
the deadly glitter of the beaters shining down in
the drum as they whirled round at a frightful
speed. The sight made Marjory tremble at the
knees; and, all at once, while Huuert stood looking
at the elevators with his back towards her,
she suddenly gave way and was falling on the
very edge of the drum. In one instant ®f time
Tom had leaped out from behind his board, and
pushed her away, shouting to Hubert s to see
her safely down again. Then he turned back, but
his foot slipped on a knotted band which lay on
the glassy boards of the stage, and —
There came a horrible shock that threw every-
body on the stage down on their faces, the great
belt of the engine broke in two, and flew high
in the air; and the engine, suddenly relieved of so
much pressure, fairly leaped off the earth with the
velocity with which it worked. There was an awful
shout from the horror-stricken men on the stacks
—and a moment after Jim was dragging poor Tom
from the drum, with one arm gone, and his life
rapidly ebbing. Hubert was with him at once, and
together they bore him down tenderly to the
ground.
A man on horseback was despatched for a doctor
as fast as he could go; and Jim, with the tears
falling from his honest eyes on Tom s white,
pinched face, was trying to force some brandy
between the clenched teeth, when he chanced to
see a pale, strange girl coming .towards them,
along with Jane Dobbs.
“Keep her off,” he shouted; “God d n you,
keep her off —it’s his sister! ”
But the dying man heard, too, and leaping up
with his last strength, he ran forward, and met her,
and held her in his one arm (for she had fainted) a
moment, before he fell, dragging her with him,
and still holding her insensible form tightly.
Hubert and Jim knelt beside him. They saw
men could do nothing now, and Jim was asking
between his sobs if his friend hau.no message for
him before he went. The shock had taken away
hisspeech, but the Feeder looked from his sister
to Jim as well as he could with his fast glazing
ey “ I will—so help me God, Tom,” Jim said,
“Warm tightened upon his sister’s waist, and
with his lips pressed to her unconscious face, he
smiled, ana passed away. .
They had quite forgotten Marjory, who lay up
on the stage in the sun for more than an hour, and
was badly sunburnt. Afterwards, when she came
to consider all things in connection with the
affair, she decided that she had hardly even average
U Tim keDt his promise well. He saw that no harm
oame near stricken girl; and two years
later, when the shadow of her great sorrow had
lifted somewhat, he induced her to marry him, to
the great indignation of a first-class female cook,
whoso address was Sydney. And Hubert Wilson,
who had taken a good deal of interest in Nellie for
Tom’s sake, saw that their farm was made a model
one.
CHRISTMAS AT THE TRAVEL-
LERS’ REST.
BY W. H. TRAILL.
CHAPTER I.
The Traveller’s Rest.
Fiery Tom sat on the verandah of the Traveller’s
Rest, contemplating the problem of existence
through an habitual haze of brandy fumes. The
Traveller’s Rest was, according to a customary
colonial exaggeration perpetuated on the sign-
board an “Hotel," and Fiery Tom was, in de-
ference to another titular fiction, acknowledged
as “ the landlord.” Unless the said signboard in-
dulged in absolute falsehood as well as in exagger-
ation, Fiery Tom’s legitimate cognomen was
Thomas Robinson. The Traveller's Rest as a
building was obviously on bad terms with the
signboard. The latter, as I have said, proclaimed
that the Traveller’s Rest, was an hotel, whereas
the building stolidly gave this assertion the lie
direct, and announced itself, as plainly as a build-
ing could, to be lather a shabby bush ‘ pub. One
end, however, was, as is frequently the case with
bush “ pubs.,” trimmer than the other, and a sec-
tion of tho house, extending from back to front
and comprising a sitting-room and two small bed-
rooms, was fitted up with some pretentions to
superior refinement, and had a special bit of ver-
andah partitioned otf by a latticed screen
This was tho “ swell ” department. Mr. and Mrs
Wooley, of Monkey Creek, had occupied this on
their way out to the station, and the prestige
thus conferred upon the parlour accommodation
of the Traveller’s Rest migntbe confidently relied
upon to bear profitable fruit, for Wooley was
worth at least £300,000, one way and another, and
owned stations in different places, and could, be-
sides, sign his name pretty distinctly to a cheque ;
while Mrs. Wooley had been cook at the Royal in
the metropolis, and was undoubtedly the leader of
fashion and arbitress of affairs social in the Brige-
low district. Mr Wooley had frequently patronised
the Traveller’s Rest with his presence. He used
to ride down from Stapleton, his station and resi-
dence, and join in with the crowd at tho bar, after
shearing. The jovial spirits who reposed at such
epochs at the Traveller’s Rest, and alleviated their
sense of the monotony of two months ‘ in the
shed ” by two weeks of culminative inebriety and
a subsequent week of “ horrors,” said that Wooley
was not a bad sort, and had no (bleeding) pride
about him. In fact, so devoid of the ostentation
of wealth was Mr Wooley that he, with a sense of
delicacy which did him credit, never offered to
shout, but would participate in any “ shout that
lndeed there used to be the gayest of times when
a lot of shearers and Wooley and Fiery Tom settled
MR. SCROOPLE ENTERS.
themselves for enjoyment. Tom Invariably com-
menced operations by making a sort ot “collec-
tion,” as though he were inaugurating a Mission to
the Heathen, or something of the kind. He
gathered in every man’s cheque as a basis for de-
lights to ensue, and from that moment he sunk
the landlord in the jovial host and companion, and
no convivial gathering at Fiery Tom’s could say
that the noble consummation of “horrors” was
arrived at without Tom honestly participating in
the same, and taking his fair share of such snakes
and goblins and demons as were going. Mr.
Wooley also did a fair thing, but Mrs Wooley used
tc interfere after a week, and - come down with a
ration cart and two “ knock-about ” men, and
bundle her liege lord into the vehicle and drive
him to the station before he could enjoy more
than a very einbryotic assortment of fiends and
vultures.
CHAPTER 11.
I Paradise Downs.
Another individual who had patronised the par-
lour accommodation at the Traveller’s Rest was
young Mr Bruce, of Paradise Downs. But Charley
Bruce had made himself obnoxious by declining
to join in at one of the delightful festivities after
shearing, and had been blank dignified, and had
thought himself too blank good to keep a blank
shearer’s company, and was blank frightened of
his blank liquor, and altogether wus an objection-
able and disagreeable personage.
Besides, he was notoriously in embarressed cir-
cumstances; and there is no human being whom
the colonial “ poor man ” holds in deeper contempt
than an actual poor man. ,
Charley had bought Paradise Downs Bhortly
after his arrival in Sydney, from a highly re-
spectable and very wealthy and influential mer-
chant and station agent, to whom he had brought
letters of introduction. He had given a fourth
cash and the balance in bills, and had started to
take possession of the run, with a comfortable as-
surance that he would clear off all liabilities in two
or years. On arrival, however, he discovered
that, although a name may be a very good thing to
sell by, it is not a safe-guard for ,a buyer to found
his impressions on. Paradise Downs was unlike a
stray dog in the advertisement, inasmuch as it aid
notanswer to its name. Instead of rich rolling
country, waving with luxuriant grass, he found
himself possessor of a broken territory of gullies,
crags, and scrubs, and understood clearly why his
mercantile friend had considered a book-muster
preferable to knocking the herd about by bringing
them into the yard to be counted.
Charley had been three years hard at it, and was
just beginning to perceive that the time was ap-
proaching when he would have to clear out, and
permit of his Sydney friend and agent selling the
property to some other fortunate new arrival. The
worst of it was that he had learnt his business, and
had worked so hard that the station was now
really worth the price he contracted for. The
cattle had been worried out of the scrubs by the
constant raids Charley had never ceased to make.
The half-wild mobs had been worked down from
the gullies and mountains, and the whole herd was
broken to the camps; so that all you had to do was
to take a ride round the boundaries, or as near as
you could get, and make your whip heard, and the
mobs would come trotting down to their camps as
quiet as milkers.
So well had poor Charley worked, that he could
have put 90 per cent, of the herd into the yards in
two days’ mustering.
Yet, after all, he would have to go out a beggar.
Compound interest, agency on buying stores, ditto
on forwarding same, ditto on selling fat cattle,
hides, and tallow, and all the various accumulations
of charges which squatting “agents” know so well
how to heap upoa their prey, had entangled him
too deeply for escape. His two thousand pounds
were hopelessly swamped, and he was only waiting
to be turned out. And he had got attached to
something else, as the reader will shortly see, and
was more leth to go. In short, Charley was almost
a desperate man. ~ . ,
Perhaps it was for that reason that he had lately
rather risen in the estimation of the “ poor man ”
of the district. I regret to say that the mailman
had been stuck-up on the stage between Travel-
ler’s Rest and Stapleton, and a lot of registered
letters had fallen into the bushranger’s hands. It
was after dark when the atfair happened, and the
mailman couldn’t swear to identity; but he must
have had some definite ideas, for a week after-
wards, Inspector Fogarty and two troopers and a
black tracker made a sudden descent on Paradise
Downs’ head station, and ransacked Charley's
whole premises, and even his private desk, by
virtue of a search warrant. They didn’t find any-
thing, but Inspector Fogarty omitted to apologize,
and made remarks about a different sort of war-
rant for future occasions. Charley either was, or
pretended to be, in a howling rage, and swore in
presence of his mother for the first time in his
life*
1 iiave not mentioned this venerable lady before,
but the reader must understand that Paradise
Downs head station was presided over by Mrs.
Bruce. A delightful old lady. A face, ordinarily
composed and serene, set in a frame of ebony and
silver hair. Features regular, but seamed with
lines that spoke of by-gone pain. Eyes—how shall
I describe those eyes ? Can the reader imagine a
sphinx that had suffered and had been converted
to Christianity ? Such a sphinx would have such
eyes. AT he mouth sweet and not resolute. Teeth
like a young girl’s, and, consequently a smile that
affected people as does a breeze-wafted whiff of
sweet perfumes. , ...
When Inspector Fogarty, his troopers, and his
tracker, had—so to speak—shaken the dust off
their official feet, and quitted Paradise Downs with
discontented and lowering mien, Charley, as I re-
marked before, swore, and that beautiful old lady
wept. I declare solemnly that I wonder how that
fellow Charley dared to make his mother cry.
Had I been present I would have quarrelled with
him (and made things ever so much worse, or
course). Luckily I wasn't there to blunder and
complicate matters as I always do; and, in tact, jl
didn't make Charley’s acquaintance for some time
after the events which I am about to narrate.
It was not the first time nor was it the last that
those splendid eyes of Mrs. Bruce had worn a
pained look about her son. The fact Is Charley
had been anything but regular in his habits for
days past. He had been out at all hours. Bobbing
Joan and Cavalier, his two favourite hacks
(thoroughbred both), whloh he kept stable fed,
had suffered hard times, and had brought Cnarley
home at all sorts of hours, themselves in a lather
of foam. Mrs. Brnce knew that her son went a
great deal to the Traveller’s Best, where till re-
cently he seldom went at all. Also she knew why
he went, and she utterly disapproved. Therefore
the pale brow was rugose, the lines in the Stately
face wore deeper than ordinary, and the mystery
of the sphinx eyes was more tremendous and
mournful than ever. A +v.o
At the same time, In the huts at Wooley s, the
“ poor man ” began to express some faint approval
of Mr. Bruce, of Paradise Downs, on the grounds
that it was possibly he who had stuck up the mail-
man, and diddled the (ruddy) traps. Goincidently
with this rise in public estimation on the part or
Mr. Charles Bruce, another party was correspond-
ingly sinking from the high estate of favour and
regard in which he had hitherto been enthroned.
The person so unfortunate was no other than
Fiery Tom, whom I have left sitting on his
verandah too long.
CHAPTER in.
Agnes.
When I described Fiery Tom as contemplating
the problem of existence through an hab tual haze
of brandy fumes, I was not absolutely just. Tom
was phenomenally sober. Also, he was under-
going manifold sufferings. In the first place, he
absolutely required a nobbier, and yet wouldn t
give in and have one. Secondly, he was rejecting
on certain matters connected with a certain fine
young man. Mr. Wooley had been bailed up> the
previous night and robbed, and Inspector Fogarty
had been nearly a week gone. Thirdly, Tom was
undergoing objurgation from three poor men
who had put up at his place on the previous night,
in spite of rumours affecting its former character
for ready hospitality, and who had been ®utraged
by a refusal on Tom’s part to take their cheques,
and ‘‘lamb them down easy.” Fiery Tom had
utterly disgraced himself, and made the poor
men ” waver in their confidence in humanity, by
actually refusing to let them get £runk even for
one night. Now they were fleeing from hlsroof as
if they feared iniquity so .unspeakable as i Fiery
Tom’s wonld bring instant judgment upon his
establishment, and were putting together a per-
fect bouquet of tlowers of speech which they were
presenting to Tom.
They were starting to a rival house, where
“ lambing down ” was done with celerity and
despatch, but where no great business had hitherto
been done, beoause the affable and jovial good-
fellowship of Tom had been too powerful an
attraction. There had existed always a sort of
Montague and Capulet rivalry between the two
houses, and when Fiery Tom had stilled the objur-
gations of his parting guests, and had got rid of
them by giving them a bottle of brandy as a staff
and a comforter for their journey, his pride and
sensibilities were wounded to think of the vulgar
triumph with which ltowdy Joe down the creek
would receive the guests he had turned away.
When a man’s finer feelings are hurt or his
vanity wounded, it is surprising how thirsty he
becomes. As a mairad soldier after a fight is
tormented with consuming craving for water, so
was Fiery Tom, after his spirit had been bruised by
the verbal assaults of his ex-guests, panting for a
nobbier. Therefore Tom slowly moistened his
parched lips, and glanced irresolutely first towards
the bar and then towards the “swell depart-
ment.’'
At this moment Fiery Tom was not a pleasant
picture. The ardent complexion from which he
derived his name was variegated by yellow bilious
patches about the corners of the mouth and.under
the eyes. These organs were filmy, dim, and in-
flamed. That his chin and upper lip wore a two
dnys’ beard was probably due to the obvious fact
that his whole frame was tremulous, and that his
hands had a pei verse wandering way, which would
have made any attempt to shave deliberate suicide.
In short, Fiery Tom was going through the terrible
process known to topers as “suffering a re-
covery.”
Nevertheless, Tom's very flabby form was phe-
nomenally docked in a clean white shirt, his hair
was tidy; and one of the cruelest taunts he had
just undergone from his rejected customers had
scornful and depreciatory reference to backslid-
ings, as illustrated by evidences of morning ablu-
tions.
Such as I have described him, Tom, after his
duplex glance bar-wards and parlour-wards, Shuf-
fled uneasily in the latter direction, and looked
hard at the French windows which opened on to
the verandah. The trim curtains were olosely
drawn, as curtains may fitly be at half-past 7 in the
morning, and Tom’s irresolution increased. Sevoral
times he opened his dry lips and gulped the sweet
Australian morning air, and each time he made a
wry face, as though he reoognised morning air as
medicinal on the allopathic system, that is to say-
nasty. Still stealing a shame-faced and apprehen-
sive glance towards the parlour blinds, Tom shuf-
fled nervously towards the bar. At the open door
he paused again, and wiped his mouth (which had
now commenced to accumulate anticipative mois-
ture), with the back of his hand. Then ho shook a
good deal, gave a final glance towards the other
end of the verandah, and turned to go in.
At that moment the parlour door opened, and on
to the verandah stepped a young lady. I say de-
liberately a young lady stepped out of the parlor
of the Traveller’s Rest disreputable bush public
house. I contend that a girl can dress in a cotton
gown, and yet be a young lady ; aye, and look one,
too. , ~ . ,
Our young lady wore a gown : I think the sex
calls the article ,{ print.” This gown fitted accur-
ately to a very exquisite lissome figure. Neat
little white cuffs set off wrists plump, yet delicate;
a bewildering collar encircled a white slender
neck, to shape which lines waved upward in dis-
tracting curves from the neatest shoulders in the
world. A bust such as sculptors gave to Hebe—
infantile, yet womanly—upneaved the folds of
print. The waist dipped in to an unforced slen-
derness, and thence the dress curved grandly out-
ward on either side, and terminated in two ridicul-
ously tiny shoes, surmounted by a glimpse of
ankles modelled in a fashion whioh amply ac-
counted for the little springy step with which this
soventeen-year-old vision of light tripped along
the verandah, and putting her arm round quiver-
ing old Tom’s abnormally clean neck, turned up
the most beautiful and innocent of faces as
she said, “Oh 1 don’t, please, for my sake, dear
P Tprotest upon my veracity that, until that last
word, I had formed the worst impressions. I fell
deeply in love with that young girl—cannot a crea-
tor love ?—and I solemnly assure you that until
the word “papa" fell in the silveriest of tones
from her lips-or my pen—(upon my word I am not
clear which it was)—l felt that I wanted to
“ punch ” that debilitated and irresolute old toper
Fiery Tom. . ,
What the mischief right, I ask,.has such a man
to such a daughter ? I feel vexed about the incon-
gruity, I assure you* and I have half a mind to
make her turn out afoundling, or a changeling, or
a stolen child, after all. But, no : I am but an in-
strument, and I write in the trance state, like my
great superior J. S. or as Mr Walker used to orate. I
cannot change this maiden’s paternity. The powers
will not permit any such departure from their
will. But, law; isn’t it Christmas time ? Fear no-
thing, gentle reader. I have a gorgeous transfor-
mation soene in preparation—only how can one
Improve upon one’s beneficent fairy, such as Agnes
Robinson is to this story ? Turn her into a colum-
bine to flaunt a gaudy dress, and be grand, and
display fashionable capers as a lady of high degree?
No, thank you. , _
Now this sunbeam of a girl kissed Fiery Tom on
his red and yellow cheek, and lured the old fellow
with “ nods and becks and wreathed smiles ” away
from the bottle-fiend’s den, and spirited him into
the parlour, where, lo 1 and behold I was the most
wonderful breakfast ever seen in the Traveller’s
Rest. I don’t know how she managed it, bless
you, so I don’t mean to explain. But the old pewter
covers were burnished like silver, and the blaok-
handled rusty knives—well, they were black-hand-
led still, but the rust was gone, and the steel shone
blue; and, 'besides, you have no conception how
different a sort of black the handle of a knife
shows when it is clean. As a parallel illustration,
wash a blackfellow. . , , .
There was a cruet with this morning s mustard.
I gave you my word that last year’s mustard had
been cleaned out and replaced, and there was not
a single fly in the vinegar. The sugar bowl had no
suggestion of being related to an ant-bed, nor was
the Dutter a cemetery of suicidal flies, nor in any
way affiliated to the oil family. There were leaves
of passion-flower round that butter, and it looked
as if a respectable cow would have owned it.
There was a table-cloth as white as though table-
cloths wore not invented to wipe knives en before
starting on a second course ; there were snowy
napkins, eggs that looked fresh at the first glance
nestling in one, and there were the most extra-
ordinary enticing tit-bits wonderfully spiced up
with cayenne, so that even Fiery Tom’s oorroded
old stomach gave a sort of spasmodic yearn ; and
to crown all there was the most odoriferous oi
coffee, places just set for two, and beside one
place there stood the most elegant and the most
tiny of toy decanters—l have reason to believe it
had been a fancy scent bottle in its youth—and in
that decanter was a portion, such an accurate,
homoeopathic measure, of a liquid which Tom re-
cognised instantly as his very choicest brandy,
never touched, except when IMstriot Judge Saul,
who is an epicure and a man of taste, passed that
way four times a year.
You must not despise Fiery Tom, because, while
he had simply gaped at all else, when he saw that
brandy he fairly broke down and cried. He was
about six feet high, and a powerfully built old
man, but he was in a sadly shaken condition
through knocking off drink too suddenly ; and he
turned his face from his own daughter and wept.
I believe from the bottom of my heart that the
reason Tom cried was in gratitude to Providence,
because he saw in those fiery cayenne devilled tit-
bits, and in that drop of “ lacing for his coffee, a
token of safety and gradual reformation.
The burden laid upon him,- by his daughter,
mind you,—the burden of “eschewing sack and
liviTiff cleanly”—be had felt to be more than he
could bear all at once. You saw how he was just
going to find comfort and break down just before
that angel fluttered upon him the very morning we
are speaking of. Well, he was fighting the drink
devil honestly for bis girl’s sake; but he felt he
would be beat in the end, until that supreme
moment when he caugrht sight of that allowance
beside his cup. Then he saw light, and when he
bad cried a little, be blew his nose vehemently,


and secretly wiped his eyes, and then turned round
with as good a countenance as he could assume
bn such a very short notice, and hugged his
daughter.
And she, not being a descendant of Ham, had
been busied with the plates and cups and things,
and had never onoe looked up from the moment
her father turned his back until he played that
tremendous nasal version of sitont la tromoa. So
this bleary old Noah had no open humiliation to
undergo at the hands (or eyes) of his own child,
and at the sound of his bugle She was on the alert,
dnd ready to nieet and respond to his embraces.
So father and daughter sat down to breakfast
together, and when Tom had gulped down his
coffee-royal, and found his nerves steadied a trifle,
the yellow patches disappeared from his cheeks,
and, what with his wash, and what with his clean
shirt, and the linen Coat into which Agnes inducted
him before sitting down, Tom looked quite a dif-
ferent creature from what he usually appeared.
In spite of his florid complexion and his two
days’ beard, there was something about the old
man which, assisted by his decorous and even easy
demeanour in the minor offices of the table, hinted
of better days gone by, and of familiarity with a
superior order of society.
There is no question but that Fiery Tom was a
disreputable old scamp. I don’t mean to deny it
for a moment. But it is necessary to offer some
explanation to account for this wonderful sylph of
a daughter and in doing so the reader will inci-
dentally commence to feel a certain spice of respect
for Tom.
The fact is that, while he abandoned himself to
all sorts of shocking courses, on one point Tom
had made a fixed resolution. His only son should
have a “fair show ” to make a straight start; and,
above all, his only daughter should stand clear.
Iflje would have her brought up to be a young
lady.
They say ill-gotten money never thrives. I will
not discuss the general principle; certainly Tom’s
son had not thriven. He never would stay at
school, loved the bush, only appeared at intervals
at the Traveller’s Rest, and had not been seen there
for two or three years. But I maintain that there
must be exceptions, otherwise Agnes would not
have been Buch as she was. The cheques of the
“ poor men ” who pursued their revels at the
Traveller’s Rost could hardly be regarded, either
morally or physioally, as “clean money.” Yet it
was those cheques, and nothing else, which fur-
nished the means for Miss Agnes Robinson to enjoy
the advantages afforded by the extremely select
Institution for Young Ladies, kept by Mrs. Gra-
ham, of Darling Point, Sydney.
It is needless to tell the reader, who must, of
course, be acquainted with a fact so widely known,
that Mrs. Graham had dropped the style of Hon-
ourable on taking to tuition, and was the widow
of a second son of the Bari of Killikranfeie, and
herself a daughter of the ancient house of Seaton.
Anyhow, Mrs. Graham’s establishment was very
select, and no young lady was admitted whose
father was in any way retail; but at the same time
Mrs. Graham preferred girls of good descent, even
though their parents were poor—provided always
the tees were paid, as per private circulars,
“ strictly in advance.”
I am not prepared to' say by what device Fiery
Tom had satisfied Mrs, Graham that Agnes was a
fitting pupil for her acceptance. Perhaps he lied
largoly. Anyhow, there she was from her earliest
childhood, and no girl ever threw her parentage in
her teeth. I have noticed, however, that this
style of aggravation is not practised in colonial
schools to anything like the extent to which it
prevails at home. Even “ wholesale ” pedigrees
won’t stand too close scrutiny in Australia, so the
fashion has fallen into disropute.
Agnes never went home for the holidays. That
was understood, especially in the bills. BUt her
schoolmates used to get their mammas to invite
Agnes to spend the holidays at their houses, and
consequently she had mixed in a subdued fashion
with the best society, and being naturally a pure-
minded, modest little maiden,,she had the style of
a self-possessed and habitual young lady.
Even schoolmistresses are not immortal, and the
sudden demise of Mrs. Graham had necessitated
the breaking-up. of her establishment, and as all
the other girls—it not being holiday time—were
transferred to other sohools, it fell out that Agnes
had no resource but to come home to her father.
The announcement of her approach had reached
Fiery Tom but a day or two before the Monkey
Flat coach deposited the girl at the Traveller's
Rest, and Tom had barely had time to clear the
place of sundry barnacle “poor men,!’ verging
towards their ordinary goal of “horrors,” and to
straighten up things a bit, before this- distracting
embarrassment was upon him. Hence his verbal
combat this morning, and the prospective triumph
of that incompetent professor of the “ lambing
down” art, Rowdy Joe, at the Shearer’s Arms
down the creek.
CHAPTER IY.
;Mr. Scroople.
Suddenly, through one of the doors-opening on
the verandah, a man’s head was projected. It was
not a pleasant looking head. It belongedito a man
about fifty years of age, somewhat scarred with
small-pox. with small furtive eyes which travelled
restlessly around the room and eluded the regard
of the two occupants by quick shiftings and sly
glances. A long and prehensile-looking nose drew
over a lipless mouth, which constantly twitched
and worked. Mutton-chop whiskers set off by
most responsible stand-up collars of the ear-aggra-
vating sort much affected by church, elders. Sleeky
black hair topped this unprepossessing visage.
Finding that he had drawn the attention of the
two breakfasters upon himself, the owner of the
head produced the body appendant thereto, and
gliding with a deprecatory manner into the room,
apologised in an oily, mannec fion his intrusion.
Was a traveller, Mr Scroople by name, and finding
no one about the hotel, .hadi ventured to.look in to
enquire how he could, get at the people of the
house.
Agnes noticed that in speaking the man scarcely
opened his liploss gash of a mouth, but twitched it
into shapes as.he spoke. It struck her that he bad
the air of keeping guard over his organ of speech,
as though af l-aid no might let out some uncomfort-
able secret. She f pit on the spot a sentiment of re-
vulsion against the fellow, and somehow coupled
the feeling with what she had experience on seeing
a snakp on her journey up.
The ice being broken by the stranger’s smooth
apology, there was only one course to be pursued.
Fiery Tom. on whom the silent apparition of
this lace had had an extraordinary effect, causing
him to develop white blotches amidsti tbo ruddy
colouring of nis. massive face, and to stare with
dropped as though the stranger wore the head
of a basilisk or of Medusa, recovered himself suf-
ficiently to arise in the character of landlord, and
place the parlour at the disposal of the traveller.
Poor little Agnes, realising that she was a pub-
lican’s daughter, blushed .painfully, and also arose
with a distressed glance at her father’s interrupted
feast, and stood uncertain as to whether it might
not be her duty to carry in the traveller’s valise,
wnich he was now unfastening from his saddle, or
perhaps to bring him slippers, and be ordered to
pull off his boots.
In the antecedent condition of Fiery Tom’s
nerves, it was not perhaps surprising that even so
ordinary an occurrence as the arrival of a travel-
ler of shabby-genteel aspect should have brought
upon him a violent relapse of shivering and shak-
ing ; but there was no apparent reason why he
should continue to look utterly scared after the
first basilisk-surprise was over. Above all, what
reason should there be for pretty innocent little
Agnes growing deadly pale, and clutching at a
chair for support, and staring with a wild-hunted
look out of those big brown eyes of hers?
The gentleman was a polite man. a smooth man,
an insinuating man, although I admit that withal
he was a villainous-looking man.
Still he took a very proper line, would not hear
of disturbing the landlord or the young lady, but
would be greatly pleased, if permitted to share
their breakfast, as he had been able to get none at
the Shearer’s Arms, where he had passed the night,
in consequenoe of the host of that establishment
being on the spree with a number of roughs. He
had therefore, seeing the condition of affairs,
started early, and ridden thus far in the hope of
finding better accommodation.
Could they, he enquired, with an insinuating ex-
tension of bis flexible mouthline, inform him how
far it was to Mr Bruce’s, at Paradise Downs, and
whether the road presented any difficulties to a
person unaccustomed to bush travelling ?
Father and daughter exchanged a rapid glance
of intelligence, from which apprehension was not
banished, and Fiery Tom imparted the informa-
tion that the distance was a trifle over ten miles,
and the track well marked and without any con-
fusing turns-off.
Mr Scroople made a good breakfast, with the
exception that he fell into several pit-falls of
cayenne, intended for the less sensitive palate of
Fiery Tom. Even in breakfasting, Mr Scroople
had a furtive secret manner. It was not only that
his restless little eyes were intermittently stealing
a look at the face of Agnes, or Fiery Tom, and were
hurriedly withdrawn as soon as the observation
was detected, but everything he touched appeared
to acquire a flavour of mystery. Did he ask that
the salt might be passed, he did so with an air of
repressing some dangerous information he pos-
sessed on the subject of chloride of sodium. The
very meat on his plate he handled as. though it
had explosive qualities known only to himself- He
took none but stealthy bites ef his bread, w hether
he had any teeth was an obtrusive enigma forced
upon his company by the ostentatious secretive-
ness of his mobile mouth, which seemed sedul-
ously to guard against opening wide enough to
make unsafe disclosures on the subject. He hand-
led his very knife and fork as though each move-
ment were a Masonic sign fraught with mystic
import. The fragments of food assumed dark
significance by the sly way he cut them, and were
suggestive of dead secrets as soon as they were
smuggled into his mouth by the smallest aperture
which would admit of their reception.
Agnes and Fiery Tom obviously quailed before
the mysteriousness of Mr. Scroople, and regarded
him and each other with an apprehensive and
expectant manner which was very inexplicable.
Under these circumstances, it will bo understood
that conversation was not brisk. As the breakfast
approached its conclusion, however, glances be-
tween the father and daughter became more rapid
and significant; and at length the former, after a
good deal of moistening his dry lips, and some
curious workings'about the apple of his throat,
made a resolute plunge, and onquired of his guest
with a tremulousness greater than ever, whether
he had heard of the recent sticking-up of the
Monkey-Fiat ooach by a bushranger.
AWKWARD FOR MR. SCROOPLE.
As this question was put, Agnes’ face wore a
singular look of tension.
Mr. Soroople, on his part, seemed taken quite
aback by the enquiry, and fae> hastily professed to
hear of the incident now for the first time. He
expressed himself as alarmed, being a peaceful
traveller on business, and assumed some irresolu-
tion as to whether ho would venture to continue
his journey to Faradise Downs.
CHAPTER V.
Meeting.
In this respect he was saved (the necessity for
coming to decision, for just as the party rose from,
table and moved to the veremdah, to let Ah Chow,
the Chinese cook, clear away, a horseman made
his appearance, coming along the road to the
Traveller’s Rest, and proved to be no other than
our young friend Charley.
Fiery Tom and his daughter re< jognised the nder
at a glance, and both instinotiv ely looked to see
whether Mr. Scroople did likewise. It was strange
that Tom’s face should wear a D.ervous undecided
look, and very strange, you will allow, ladies, that
the beautiful faoeof Agnes shou-W be covered with
aglow of blushes.
Mr. Scroople alone was unaffi icted. Plainly he
did not know the rider at all.
Perhaps, after all, it was not so very strange that
little Agnes should blush so viv Idly when Charley
came in sight.
In the first place, Charley - gas a particularly
handsome young fellow, and 1 little maids are apt
to give tokens of susceptibllil y when handsome
young fellows enter upon their range of vision.
Charley was 5 feet 10 inchef fl in height, broad-
shouldered, clean-limbed, and f ramed for activity,
a frank blonde countenance ilb amined with flashes
of white teeth when he smiled (as he certainly did
as he approached the verandi ih and saw Agnes),
wavy brown curls, and the cot acly moustache and
beard appertaining to tho got len epoch of three-
and-twenty.
He was riding a grand chesn atthoroughbred—in
fact, his favourite, Cavalier—a jad had a revolver in
a holster on his belt; for, as be explained with a
laugh which somehow didn't seem to accord with
his ordinarily frank aspect, it was scarcely safe to
move about unarmed, now that a bushranging
desperado was “sticking-up '■* right and left in the
neighbourhood. On dismer anting and fastening
his norse to the verandah po ft, he saluted the com-
pany. His greeting to Fiei y Tom was not alto-
getber free from a sort of embarrassed reserve-
To Agnes, on the other hand, his manner was dif-
ferent. The eyes of the two young people told a
clear story, even had the way Charley squeezed the
little hand held out for him to shake, and the
lingering way in which he relinquished his grasp,
been less evident.
There is no particular need for any secret here.
Charley Bruce had known Fiery Tom ever since he
(Charley) came to Paradise Downs, and had always
regarded him—with a great deal of reason—as a
disreputable old scamp, who harboured all sorts of
rowdies, and was subject to more than suspicion as
to the connection between his b eef-cask and the
Paradise Downs bullocks. Singularly enough,
this feeling of aversion did not appear to be re-
turned in kind. Fiery Tom invariably welcomed
the appearance of Charley Bruce with seeming
cordiality, and, when m re than ordinarily tipsy,
he was in the habit of evincing an amount of
affection which—taking, as it did, the form of slob-
bery familiarity and the substitution of “Dear
Boy ” for more respectful forms of address—used
to vex Charley beyond measure
With respect to Miss Agnes Robinson the case
was different. Charley had met her repeatedly at
the house of the Hon. Mr. Greenhied, M.L.C., the
merchant and squatting agent, from whom he had
bought Paradise Downs. Miss Letty Greenhied
was one of Agnes’ school bosom friends, and more
than once Miss Letty had prevailed on mamma to
invite Agnes to pass her holidays at Stockwhip
Hall, Rushcutter’s Bay, the “ palatial residence ”
of the Hon. Geo. Greenhied, M L.C.
Seeing a good deal of each other at that hospit-
able mansion, Charley and Agnes had fallen in love
under the acute observation of Mrs. Greenhied,
and to the perfect contentment of the Hon. Green-
hied, who had felt apprehensions about Letty, and
had no idea of that young lady making a match
with a young man, however good-looking, whose
station was to be “ foreclosed ’’ on as a matter of
business at an early date.
Of course the idpa of associating the refined and
accomplished Miss Agnes Robinson, guest at the
Greenhied family mansion, with that of the dis-
reputable old boozing “lamber-down,” Fiery Tom,
never entered into Charley’s head. It was conse-
quently a stunning shook to him when a few days
before the date of our story, stopping for a snack
at the Traveller’s Rest, he found himself face to
face with his beautiful sweetheart, occupying the
position of daughter to Fiery Tom, and of hostess
—in default of any other of her sex—of that
notoriously rowdy “ pub.,” the Traveller s Rest.
This discovery was a terrible shock to Charley.
But when a young fellow is deep in love, and made
of sterling stuff, he generally steers a straight
course. Charley saw just two lines of proceeding
available. Either he must break with Agnes once
and for ever, or he must hurry on affairs and take
her away from the Traveller’s Rest as his wife.
No baser thoughts intruded into his mind for a
moment. The simple refinement of Agnes’ mind,
her instinctive purity and entire dellcaoy, sur-
rounded her with so appreciable a barrier of en-
forced respect, that to connect her image with
any thought of degradation was simply impossible
for any man of sensibility.
It was settled in Charley’s mind, that if Agnes
remained at the Traveller’s Rest, she could be
nothing to him, and that she could only leave it to
become his wife. Of course he .decided on the
la iJut"a terrible difficulty interposed. His mother.
Charley had accustomed himself all his life to study
his mother’s every wish. Haven’t I said that the
young 1 man, although business affairs might have
made him reckless in some matters, was of ster-
ling stuff ? You have been introduced to his
mother, and you know what a nice sort of oaf he
would have been had he not worshipped that
queenly lady. The mother and son had never had
* serious difference in their lives till now, when, as
you have already seen, there was a terrible cloud
between them. ,
Mrs. Bruce would not listen to Charley 8 propo-
sition to bring home Fiery Tom’s daughter as her
daughter-in-law. “On the day that that young
person enters this house,” said the old lady, it is
no longer a place for your mother. Your wife will
have a right to be mistress of your establishment,
and I shall not remain to witness your misery when
your eyes shall be opened to your terrible infatua-
tion. I shall seek another home.”
There was no mistaking that Charleys mother
was in earnest. The sweet and irresolute mouth
was grim and determined for once.
This was a terrible situation for poor Charley.
He must marry Agnes soon or never. He could
not turn the dearest of mothers out of his house.
It was her only shelter, and he was—as we know—
so straitened for means that he could not possibly
provide a separate establishment for her—say a
dowager minage in the metropolis.
What with this affair, and his business and other
troubles, Charley was nearly distracted. Oh 1 had
he but a few thousands te clear off that cursed
mortgage he could “ pull through ” the station,
improved as it now was, and then he could be able
to marry and to settle his mother comfortably in
town, where she could enjoy society suitable to
her age and station, as she had often, in their
gleasant evening chats, expressed a longing to
Such was the condition of affairs. Charley was
more frequently from home than ever he had been
before. His nags were ridden nearly to death in
his wild gallops day and night through the bush.
He was too often at the Traveller’s Best for either
his own peace or Agnes’, and his mother, lying
sleeplessly in bed, lamenting that she had lived to
be estranged from her only son—the baby boy
whom she had suckled, and who had made her
heart leap with joy as he laughed up in her face-
had more than once heard his horse clatter into
the head station near the break of day. What
with impending ruin, this unhappy passion for the
daughter of a tipsy tavern-keeper, and, worst of
all, that dreadful visit of Inspector Fogarty, which
threw so dismal a light on the purpose of those
midnight gallops, the lines in the calm face had
deepened sadly during the past few days, and the
dear old lady thought her heart would break, and
almost hoped it would, for then she would be at
rest and out of the way.
CHAPTER VI.
Mb. Scroople Plays.
If Mrs. Bruce, with her mind distressed by the
painful apprehensions evoked by the proceedings
of Inspector Fogarty, could have been present to
observe the manner of Mr. Scroople when he un-
derstood that the new-comer was Mr Charles
Bruce, of Paradise Downs, it is probable that her
anxieties would have undergone no abatement.
From the moment when he became aware of the
young man’s identity, Mr. Scroople became a per-
fect embodiment of watchfulness and observation.
His little eyes twinkled with the sclntlllative force
of a whole constellation of fixed stars, albeit the
simile is defective, inasmuch as there was not a
particle of fixity about Mr. Soroople’s shifty orbs.
He expressed his intention of “spelling” for the
day, and Agnes suspected that he had previously
overheard Mr Bruce mention that he was not going
home till dark. He made several efforts to “ pump”
Fiery Tom, whose unnerved condition appeared
to point him out as an easy prey. At dinner he
developed a remarkable flow of cenversatlon, of
the oraer known as “ fishing,” and somehow man-
aged to extract from Mr. Bruoe, by side winds, a
good deal of information as to his situation and
circumstances. His dexterity and success were
the more remarkable because he was obviously
conscious that he was himself as closely observed
by the father and daughter as he was observing
Mr. Bruce, and he was clearly uneasy under this
surveillance «nd scrutiny. Fiery Tom and Agnes
appeared to puzzle him not a little.* An air of con-
straint and expectation hovered around the party,
which even Mr Soroople’s display of conversational
powers under difficulties did not remove.
After the close of the meal, Mr Scroople invited
Mr Bruce to come into his room, as he has a few
words to say to him. Agnes retained her seat,
trembling violently, and the thunderbolt which
had been impending ever since Mr Scroople made
his appearance, fellwhen Fiery Tom, after a cauti-
ous peep at the pair through the glass door open-
ing on to the verandah, ana a view of Mr Scroople
with a legal-looking dooument In one hand, and
his other familiarly on Charley’s shoulder, stepped
back to the parlour on tip-toe, and announced to
Agnes in an agitated whisper that he had “ pro-
duced his warrant and nabbed him I ”
In short, it became evident that both father and
daughter had from the first suspected that Mr
Scroople was an officer of police, sent up in mufti
after the bushranger who had robbed the Monkey
Flat coach, and that the suspicions against young
Mr Bruce had assumed tangible form, and had now
culminated in his arrest.
Under these circumstances, it would have been
only proper that Agnes should have fainted away,
and perhaps she would have complied with the
proprieties in this respect but for the fact that it
instinctively appeared to Fiery Tom equally fitting
and proper that he should sustain himself with a
nobbier. He made for the bar accordingly with
entire oblivion of recent resolutions, and Agnes,
divining his purpose, rallied like a brave girl, and
placed those beautiful plump fetters, her arms,
once more round the old sinner's neck, and brought
him back. So the pair sat down again in the parlour
and awaited the issue.
The cracking of a whip and the rattle and jingle
of wheels and harness broke in upon their silent
waiting, and heralded a timely distraction in the
form 'of the arrival of the weekly coach, on its
wav to Monkey-Flat via Paradise Downs.
Flash Parker, “the civil and obliging driver,” as
the Monkey-Flat Chronicle invariably called
him flung down the reins, and descended from the
box as Ah How went to the horses’heads with a
bucket of water; and Fiery Tom had to go behind
the bar to dispense drinks to driver and passengers.
Flash Parker being the driver who handled the
ribbons on the occasion of the coach being bailed
up the preceding week, and having, according to
rumour, shown a spirit anything but in correspon-
dence with the regular bluster of his manner, was
now boiling over with valour. He bad two revol-
vers in his belt, and a double-barrelled gun on the
footboard, and his passengers were armed to the
teeth, although three of them, being tradesmen
from town, and one a new chum, were evidently
in the greatest awe of the weapons tney carried.
They brought news that the troopers were out
all over the country. The Police Magistrate from
Monkey-Flat, with the sergeant and constable and
three volunteers, were said to be working down
from that direction ; two other parties were clos-
ing in from Tea-tree Swamp and Mountain Rise,
respectively ; and Inspector Fogarty, with his
troopers and tracker, was somewhere round the
big scrub.
It would be a rare lark, Mr. Parker opined, if the
bushranger should take the chance of bailing up
the town of Monkey-Flat while its defenders were
away hunting for him. There was only the lockup-
keeper left m the place, besides two bank clerks,
and they would be shaking in their shoes.
Flash Parker, at this point, desired to know, with
some anxiety and irritation, what the blazes Tom
was frightened at? and the heroic driver looked
rather apprehensively round as he made the en-
quiry.
In truth. Tom was afflicted with his shaking fit
again, and being beyond surveillance, rapiffiy
gulped down a couple of very stiff nobblers. He
looked badly scared as Parker described the police
dispositions for a campaign—dispositions which his
knowledge of the country enabled him to under-
stand meant an extended circle gradually concen-
trating on the Traveller’s Rest.
So perturbed was he, in fact, that on a black-
fellow presenting himself at the bar with a bottle
and a shilling for some grog, he served the native,
oblivious of the fact that by so doing he broke the
law in presence of witnesses.
“ Didn’t know you had any darkies about here,
remarked Flash Parker.
“No more there are," replied Tom, foggily.
“ Why, there are two," rejoined Parker, wno had
been looking after the grog-bearing aboriginal.
“That chap nas a mate camped across the creek
there.”
Tom, much improved in spirit by his surrep-
titious refreshers, leaned over the counter so as to
obtain a view out of the door, and verified Parker s
statement by his own observation; after whioh he
remarked that it was a long time since any niggers
had been round this way. He hadn’t seen a mob ox
them since Fogarty did the last big " dispersion,
two years ago.
The interest in the subject was fading, when tne
new-chum passenger brought himself into notice,
and incurred the full weight of the valiant Parker s
contempt by enquiring, with some appearance of
anxiety, whether there was any danger from these
“savages,” particularly “whether it might not
have been they who had been bushranging.”
Goaded by the ridicule with which both propo-
sitions were received, this unlucky greenhorn de-
fended himself by obviously drawing upon his
imagination, and averred that the blackfellow who
had just been supplied with liquor—at the mention
of which oircumstanco Fiery Tom, recalling his
imprudent publicity in supplying, winced—had a


revolver under his shirt, and therefore why
shouldn’t he have been the bushranger ?
“ And whited; his face for disguise; ha! ha!”
laughed the scornful Parker, “ an’ saved up to buy
an ’orse an’ seddle. Blackfellows may play them
sort of games and carry about revolvers in Heng-
land,” remarked Mr. Parker, with lofty sarcasm,
“ but their ’abits is different here! ”
“ But there are horses in the same field that these
blacks are living in,” persisted the infatuated new
chum.
“The same field! ’* eried Parker with supreme
Superiority. “ What d’ye mean by field ? It’s hall
lofeeti bush ’ere.”
“Wot ’orses are them near where the niggers is
Camped, Tom ? ” he added, observing that the new
Chum’s eyes had been aoourate in their disoovery.
Tom didn’t know. He supposed that the polioe
parties had disturbed the stock all round, and that
these were some nags which had been hunted in
towards the Traveller’s Rest.
“ Like enough," said Parker, graciously. “ Now
then, mates, time’s up! All aboard!" and he
swung himself up Into his throne, and gave Ah
How a gentle flick with his whip-lash as a hint to
quit the horses’ heads and clear out.
The passengers scrambled into their seats, and
Parker had gathered up his reins and squared his
elbows, when Agnes made her appearanob With a
note in her hand, Which she Hafided to Parker, to
be delivered without fdil tb Mrs. Bruce at Paradise
Downs.
This M!S Fafftefiv with dignified gallantry, under-
took to attend to> and seized the opportunity to
stipulate that “You will serve my next glass at
this ’ere ’ouse with your own fair ’ands, my dear,”
& sentence which he thought about as neat a thing
as he had tooled off lately, and which struck a pas-
senger of the storekeeper kind as so good that he
attempted to cap it by singing out that when he
returned would expect gin and a
barker’s fleAt thintf tad, by good fortune,
the instant effect of sending Agnes flying back
ihto the noUBB, her cheek and neck glowing with
Bhame and indignation. So she escaped the second
shot, and Fiery Tom, who had found the visits in
many respects trying to his nerves, smuggled a
couple more nobblers down his throat, and then,
feeling a necessity for adding deceit to deceit, har-
rowed the orderly soul of Ah How by upsetting
all his sacred tins and canisters in a precipitate
search for cloves wherewith to disguise the too
evident odours of hiB potations.
CHAPTER VII.
Mr. Scroople’s Game.
"When the fair Agnes wrote that note, which was
the direful ocoasion of exposing her to the atten-
tions of Mr Parker and passenger, and when in it
she apprised Mrs Bruoe that her son had Just been
arrested by a polioe officer on a charge of bush-
ranging, she nad been Just a trifle precipitate.
Moreover, it must be admitted that she had also,
considering her previous agitation, her present
distress, and her continued anxiety, been rather
inconsistant when she terminated the note by as-
suring Mrs Bruoe that her son was certainly inno-
cent, and that no harm could ultimately happen
to him.
The French have a proverb which says more
neatly than a translation can convey it, that “ ho
who excuses himself acouses himself.” This may
be extended to a wider application, and it may be
advanced that she who excuses her sweetheart
accuses her sweetheart.
It was scarcely the best method of introducing
herself to her lover's mother for Agnes to make
the first note ever written by her to that lady con-
vey a gross and libellous falsehood, and an assur-
ance of her lover’s innocence, whioh as circum-
stances actually stood, had greatly the appearance
ot indifference to crime.
The fact was that Mr Charles Bruce had not been
arrested at all, and that nothing was mere remote
from the intentions of Mr Scroople, or further ex-
ceeding his power, than performing such a cere-
mony. Yet the gesture seen by Peeping Tom was
an actual fact. _ , _
When Mr Scroople introduced Charley Bruce in-
to his apartment and closed the door, his first action
Was to talte a legal-looking paper from his breast
pocket, and |his second to lay his hand upoH the
young man’s Bhoulder, and with an affectionate
ft was at this moment that Tom got a glimpse of
the situation through the curtains, and it is possible
that he may have seen Mr Soroopie’s face, and thus
Unconsciously been strengethened in the impres-
sion that he was up to misohief.
Mr Soroopie’s countenance wore, as we have
stated, an affectionate look. That is to say, Mr
Scroople meant that it should, and anything more
horrible than the distortion produced by .Mr
Scroople’s endeavour to look benevolent and kind
it would be impossible to imagine. His lipless
mouth stretched iu a bloodless gash, and turned
up towards his large red ears. His wicked little
eyes were squeezed into mere luminous slits by the
corrugation of his cheeks, straining to effect a
genial smile. His damp, flabby hand, after resting
for a moment on the yonng man’s shoulder, sought
to grasp his hand, and squeezed it till Charley fairly
threw it away with a disgusted feeling of having
had a void, slimy, flat-fish flapping in bis palm.
Still, at three-and-twenty few men are physiogno-
mists, and those who are, generally are too keen to
be honest. Therefore, Charley failed to observe
that, hang-dog looking fellow as Mr Scroople was
in his ordinary repose of oountenance, his aspect
in the rrfle of a philanthropist was villainous. Like
most young men, Charley, seeing that the man
was trying to look amiable, took it for granted
that he was being amiable.
Mr Soroople opened the colloquy by remarking
on the providential nature of the circumstances
which had brought them together. He oould, he
remarked with an amount ©f feeling which had
the effect of making him blink like a hungry owl,
trace in the circumstance a divine agency. His
intention of visiting Paradise Downs had been, so
to speak, governed by a higher power, and the
meeting at this time had evidently been fore-
ordained with a wise purpose. The conversation
they had enjoyed during luncheon had acquainted
him with circumstances, whioh had quickened his
original purpose of endeavouring to be of service
to a young man with whose family he had been
acquainted in the old country. He had been aware
before he started up country of Mr Bruce’s embar-
rassments, and purposed endeavouring to relieve
them ; but since he had had an opportunity of
seeing how worthy a scion of his race Mr Charles
Bruce was, he was fixed in his intention. His plan
involved some pecuniary risk—he might, almost
say sacrifice —on his own part, but, thank heaven,
he could afford to indulge his fancies.
Now, he had gathered, both before he started up
oonntry, and from little hints that day. that
Charley was crippled for want of a few thousands
to save him from loss of a property he had ren-
dered valuable, and also —here Mr Scroople smiled
an insidious smile which made him look really
distressing—to enable him to lead to the altar a
very charming young lady, whose worthy father
(really a man much above his station) he, Mr
Scroople, had had the pleasure to become ac-
quainted with as host of this really most respect-
able establishment. ~ M .
Had Charley had that lusus natwroe, an old head,
upon his young shoulders, he would assuredly
have been put upon his guard by the last part of
this speech. When one man praises another for
qualities which he evidently does not possess
when you hear a man, or a body of men, lauding a
notorious fool or scoundrel for wisdom and virtue,
or bespattering a self-set.kipg politician with
ascriptions of public spirit—it is perfectly sate to
set down the speaker or sneakers as either fools
themselves, as placing so little value upon the
virtues they talk about as to fling them on any
dirty shoulders, like a silk cloak on a sow s back,
or else as incapable of recognising these virtues
when they see them. In any case, beware of such
fellows. They are more usually rogues, who un-
derstand the value of flattery, than tools,
When Mr. Scroople lauded poor Fiery Tom,
whom no ono could have mistaken for anythin#
but a dissipated old scamp, Charley should have
been on his guard.
But the sensation was too agreeable to be jeal-
ously investigated, and half the world is governed
by sensation rather than judgment. Charley would
have liked to be able to believe all Mr. Scroople
said about Fiery Tom and his “ respectable estab-
lishment,” and ne surrendered at discretion to the
soothing effect of Mr. Scroople’s oleaginous re-
marks. Therefore, from that moment, all things
conspired to make him an easy prey. Mr. Scroople’s
proposition would enable him to avert immediate
foreclosure, and to do that would, in fact, be to
secure his station, considering its increased pro-
ductiveness of late years. Besides, from that
would follow an easy accomplishment of his
dearest desire—his marriage with Agnes. And
Charley was desperately in love.
Mr. Scroople offered to advance a certain round
sum—sufficient to stave off the Hon. Mr. Green-
hied—he was content with a seoond mortgage.
All he required was, as a fanciful sort of additional
seourity, that Charley should make over to him all
his reversional right—if any—under the will of
his paternal grandfather, then living.
Mr. Scroople knew apparently more about this
old gentleman than Charley did, for that was
Srecfouß little, as Charley’s father had died while
e was young, and his mother seldom spoke of her
All Charley knew was that his father was a
younger son, and having married a governess,
had been cast off for ever. When his mother did
speak of his family, it was as of a race remote from
all interest in his life. His father’s elder brother
was a married man before his mother had left
England, and dodbtlCss had a family.
So when Mr. SCroople prodticed sefCral legal
documents ready for his signature, the young
man, infatuated with love and money anxieties,
was ready to sign anything, especially when Mr.
Scroople, opening a pocket-book —which looked as
though it contained the key to the Eleusinian
mysteries, so suggestive of hidden secrets was it —
produced from some inscrutable fold a marked
cheque for the amount mentioned.
Chapter vlli.
i’ikiiy TOm koit iUrii'dEß.
There is something about a good cheque for a
round sum which throws a sort of golden halo
round its possessor; which smooths the most
rugged countenance, and makes it glow with
ethereal beauty (whereby numerous young
maidens have been deluded into marrying very
crabbfd old men); which straightens a crooked
back, fills in gapped teeth, sweetens the breath,
imparts a wisdom which most men love to listen
to, and whioh highly qualifies for legislative
honours; which makes awkwardness appear dig-
nified, and dullness to assume the aspect of noble
reserve. Let a man with a six-figure cheque pull
your nose, and it would —well, perhaps it would be
going to far to say that the sensation would
resemble that produced by bearing the bul-bul
among the citrons of the valley—but, anyhow, I
know plenty of men who would prefer—abso-
MISSED FIRE!
lutely prefer—being rudely jostled by a very rich
man to not being in his oompany at all.
Charley Bruce was aot yet arrived at the age
for philosophising, consequently none of tho above
reflections occurred to him. On the contrary, he
considered that his prejudices against Mr. Scroople
at first sight had been absurd, and probably due to
perception that his presence would prevent the
expected Ute-a-tete with Agnes. He felt the in-
fluence of the golden haze, and thought Mr,
Scroople—who was keeping up the beneficent look
which gave him the appearance of a badly-stuffed
hyena—had really something kindly and even
venerable under—a—a sort of disappointing ex-
terior.
Both parties being desirous to conclude the
business, so generous on one side and so advan-
tageous on the other, and Fiery Tom being the
only person available, that worthy was summoned
to the parlour to officiate as witness.
Being still under the Impression that Mr. Scroople
was a “ trap ” In the police sense, and that Mr.
Charles Bruce was under arrest, charged with
robbery under arms, and having a certain degree
of antipathy to dealings with officers of police,
Fiery Tom, despite the revivers he had imbibed,
would have preferred to shirk the summons and to
send Ah How. But his own curiosity to know
exactly how matters stood, and his daughter’s
feverish anxiety, prevailed, and he entered.
The situation of affairs considerably astonished
him, but being a man of the world and the ex-
ternal envelope of at least four stiff nobblers, he
rapidly recovered from his first surprise, and ad-
justed his mind to the new aspect of the business.
Mr Scroople was desirous that Tom should simply
witness signatures and have done with the matter,
and Mr Bruce would have been content with the
same ; but Fiery Tom developed views of his own,
and a spirited—or spirituous—obstinacy quite re-
markable.
He knew nothing of Mr Soroopie’s generosity ;
he had heard none of his touching speeches. Con-
sequently, besides being an elderly man and ac-
customed to tho evil ways of this generation, he
was not under the glamour which Mr Scroople had
cast around Charley Bruce.
In short, Fiery Tom saw nothing in Mr Scroople’s
appearance to impress him with a conviction that
he was anything different from what he seemed ;
and now that the “ detective ” theory was unten-
able, he had swiftly substituted a “rogue ” theory
in its stead. J , .. .. .
For these reasons, and also for others entirely
satisfactory to himself, Fiery Tom, being in close
approximation to the “ Dear Boy ” stage of affec-
tionate interest in Charley Bruce, insisted on read-
ing every word of the documents he was called on
to attest .the signing of, with the plainly stated
whioh made Charley feel very much
ashamed and hurt that so excellent a man as Mr.
Scroople should be so misconceived—of seeing
** all fair.”
That injured individual, Mr Scroople, took Tom’s
persistence in extremely bad part, and looked so
remarkably venomous that even Charley felt a
little startled by the deadly malignity and alarm of
his new benefactor’s glare at the unmoved old
Tom.
No other witness being available, however, there
was no resource, except to either postpone the
business till some other opportunity or to let Fiery
Tom indulge his impertinent fancy. So that indi-
vidual perused the deed of mortgage and the in-
strument of surrender with an attention which be-
came demonstrative as he proeeeded with the
latter.
His face became intense and flushed as he read
on. He frequently muttered, and Mr Scroople’s
oountenanoe became an interesting study in its
alternations from diabolic fury as Tom vented an
ejaculation, and its rapid shift to complicated and
anxious philanthropy as it turned to mark the
effect of these proceedings upon young Bruce.
Fiery Tom’s investigations terminated in a slap
of the thigh and a long breath, succeeded by some
moments of brown study, and a steady frowning
Stare at Mr Scroople, who sustained that gaze
about as ungraciously as so good a man could, and
dodged Toni's eyes with an ooular activity which
suggested that Mr Scroople’s philosophy was of
the peripatetic order.
By an apparently unpremeditated movement,
Tom managed to get a little behind Mr Bruee, and
with a swift glance and motion of his lips conveyed
a meaning to Mr Scroople, which that excellent
man at once comprehended.
The words silently formed by Fiery Tom’s mouth
were beyond question “ How much for me ? ”
Mr Soroople with admirable promptitude opened
his hand, hitherto clenched fn a paroxysm or feel-
ing, and displayed five fingers.
Fiery Tom shook his head with decision, and with
his forefinger and thumb formed a circular loop
plainly signifying a nought, while his mouth
shaped out the word “ fifty.”
Mr Soroople, whose face had become a perfect
kaleidoscope of changing expressions, as he altern-
ately glanced at Tom ana the unsuspicious Charley,
gave a rapid nod of assent, with a very un pleasing
and dangerous expression of countenance, and
Fiery Tom immediately spoke up, remarking that
it seemed all right and square, and that the parties
had better sign away and get the affair over,
whioh was aooordingly done without loss of time,
and attested by Tom in a very fair hand, only
marred by a slight unsteadiness.
CHAPTER IX.
Fiery Tom Revokes.
The business recorded in the last chapter having
been accomplished, Mr Scroople, who seemed to be
oppressed with a feeling of excited triu mph which
would not be repressed by all his arts of secrecy,
and who had an air of straining to contain him-
self, signified that he desired to proceed to Monkey
Flat, there to celebrate his Christmas festivities,
especially as he had designed to transact his busi-
ness in that township, and had directed his letters
to be forwarded thither. .....
A few words from Fiery Tom placed his daughter
in possession of the mistake which he and she had
fallen into as to the relation between Mr Scroople
and young Mr Bruce, and it was therefore with a
less perturbed countenance that she saw the last-
named worthy mount his na# and start away to
make the best of the afternoon in prosecuting his
had previously, under cover of set-
tling the bill, received from the parting guest live
crisp bank notes, which he retired to deposit in an
old cash-box in his bed-room, behind the bar; and
as he chose to remain there, overhauling, with un-
wonted thoughtfulness, a number of old letters
and papers, the young people had a lengthened
explanation between themselves, in which a
marked cheque, with four figures thereon, played
a prominent part. .
But even this delighf ul interview bad to come to
an end, for Charley announced that he thought
it would be wise to deposit the big cheque in
security at once, and would therefore ride straight
into Monkey-Flat, and get young Coyne of the
branch bank to take the cheque and lock it up in
the safe till office hours on the next business day-
Christmas intervening. He would have a stiff ride
to be back at Paradise Downs before daybreak, but
back he must be. for his mother would not enjoy
her Christmas unless he were the first to greet her
in the morning. And after some pleasant whisper-
ings about the next ensuing Christmas, and all the
changes which would have come about before
then at which Agnes smiled a little, and blmshed a
great deal, he called Ah How to bring Cavalier,
and mounting, cantered off by a short cut through
the towards Monkey-Flat, Agnes having
quite forgot her intention to mention the alarming
note she had sent to Mrs. Bruce.
The Traveller’s Rest now appeared more worthy
of its name than usual. _Fiery Tom remained
occupied in overhauling his old letters. Agnes
continued to sit on the verandah, musing
over the day’s events, and apparently at times
thinking of things which distressed her, for the
smooth brows occasionally knit, the white band
clenched into a firm little fist, and the miraculous
little shoes beat a vexed tattoo. . ..
Her eyes wandered unconsciously away into the
distance through the tremulous evening air, which
seemed to palpitate in unison with the constant
trill of the cicada which arose in throbbing unison
from the flat where the two blackfellows wore
moving about their camp and stripping bark for a
gunyah to shelter them during the night.
There was something soothing in the ceaseless
hum of the cicada, the tremulous heat-haze, andl
even in the softened clink of Ah How’s operations
in the kitchen.
While Agnes was yet dreaming thus, and her
father still remained secluded—with a bottle, un-
fortunately—the afternoon slipped by and the sun
went down. Before it became too dark, and the*
mosquitoes too troublesome to make the veran-
dah any longer attractive, the young giri fancied
she saw the blacks drive the horses nearer to their
now completed gunyah; but the voice of Ah How
soliciting a consultation with respect to the pro-
portions «f cayenne requisite to spice dishes for
tea according to what he regarded as “ Missee’s ”
rather singular taste, changed the current of her
thoughts, and set her bustling to prepare a meal
for her father’s evening delectation.
Ah How, anxious to meet the young '■ Missee’s ”
evident wish to have something which would
stimulate her father’s dubious appetite, made the
—to Agnes—surprising and novel suggestion that
she should include a plate of cloves among the
delicacies, because, he explained, “Mastah welly
fond cloves to-day. ’
As Agnes regarded the proposition as emanating
from Ah How’s knowledge of some preparation
popular in China, and probably of the preserved-
ginger kind, she did not object, and, consequently
when Fiery Tom was summoned to bis meal, her
found a large saucerful of cloves before his plate,
and regarding it as a gentle sarcasm on Agnes’
part, signifying a discovery of his backs! idlngs, he
stammered a thick-voiced disclaimer of having
‘‘tushed a drop t’day,” whereupon Agnes under-
stood what bad happened, and all the soft happi-
ness which had been struggling with some secret
care during the afternoon, died out of her young
face. „
The meal was consequently not a success. Fiery
Tom’s pretence of eating was a flabby failure, and
his laborious assumption of appetite a transparent
imposition. He was uncertain in his management
of nis knife and fork, and eccentric in his random
excursions among the dishes provided, even to the
point of helping himself, with a sever® air of self-
command, to a largo portion of accidental cloves,
and carving at them on his plate in the manner
appropriate to chops, and then discovering his
mistake, and becoming plunged into the deepest
confusion and abasement.
As it happened, however, it would have made
little difference had he openly produced the soda-
water bottle full of rum whioh he had filled at the
bar in view of a possible stoppage of supplies, and
which, although he considered it concealed with
great art, was projecting Its neek in a glaring
manner from his inner coat-pocket.
Agnes’ great eyes were clouded with impending
tears to observe his proceedings, her lips were
trembling, and her poor tender heart lit to break.
She saw clearly that her efforts to reform her
father’s habits would be vain. She was only a
girl, and she eould not—she could not follow him
when he had to go to that dreadful bar. Oh, it was
her brother’s plaoe to . Her brother lat the
thought of him a fresh wound opened, and the
girl hastily quitted the table, and, retiring to her
room, threw herself on the bed, and had a distress-
ing lit of crying over the dreadful situation in
whioh she had found herself Blnce the death of
Mrs. Graham sent her home.
Hornet What a home! Food only for more
tears. No hope, no light anywhere, except—
Charley.
CHAPTER X.
Mr. ScßOOPiiE’s Trick is Trumped.
The night closed in: Fiery Tom had retired to
sleep off his potations; Ah How snored in Chinese
from his bunk across the yard; the curlews wore
screaming dolefully down the creek, and Agnes,
feeling nervous, was about to go to bed, when the
sound of a horse’s feet approaching the hotel
struck her ear, and, as she peeped out of her door
into the parlour, a man’s footstep stamped across
the verandah, and the French lights were flung
open, affording entry to no less a person than Mr,
Scroople. , „ . , ,
Mr. Scroople in a passion; Mr. Soroople in a
desperate fright; Mr. Scroople with his church-
warden collars limp with perspiration: Mr.
Scroople disordered with trying to ride fast ou a
knooked-up horse; Mr. Scroople white in the face,
red in the eyes, and with his secret mouth holding
in with difficulty something more portentous
than ever.
Neither passion, fright, nor exhaustion could
triumph over the secrecy of Mr. Soroopla’s mouth.
He spoke with rapidity and vehemenoe; he even
swe re. But his oould not have been “ round
oaths. They must have beon flat ones, for, to all
the fierce and angry torrent of narrative and ob-
jurgation whioh flowed from his mouth, he al-
lowed no more space than a slit of varying, and
generally extremely unbecoming, shape afforded.
The cause for Mr. Soroople's unexpected return,
and for his present condition, was simple enough.
Ho had been, as he expressed it, “robbed by a
highwayman.”
His narrative, when sifted from the furious ob-
jurgations with which it was aocompanied in the
telling, was that about an hour after he started
from the Traveller’s Rest he had notioed the ap-
E roach of a horseman, who galloped through the
ush, and who, on cutting across in front of him,
he saw to have his face blacked. This personage
had presented a revolver at Mr. Soroople, and had
commanded him to “bail up." Comprehending
the gesture, rather than the words, Mr. Scroople
had dismounted without more ado, .and had, by
the “highwayman,” been conducted about a
hundred yards from the road, compelled to pro-
duoe his money from his pockets, and then tied to
a tree. The robber had then proceeded to ransack
his valise, and after taking off the saddle from Mr.
Soroople's horse, he had hobbled it with a stirrup-
leather and ridden off. . , „
Mr. Scroople declared he was ruined, for among;
the properties appropriated was a pocket-book (ot
no value except to himself, but to him priceless)
and the documents signed that day by young Mr.
Bruce. He had only managed to release himself
an hour ago, and, knowing nowhere else to go, he
had made back as rapidly as his horse would carry
him to “ this cursed den of thieves.”
During this Ireoital, Agnes displayed extraor-
dinary emotion. From the moment she under-
stood what had happened to Mr. Scroople she
turned ghastly white, and sank into a seat. And
when that high-spirited gentleman, with true deli-
oacy, characterised the only home she had as * a
den of thieves,” all her spirit seemed gone, and she
merely covered her face with her hands, and wept.
Mr. Scroople, having vented the first torrent of
his rage, now appeared to feel apprehensive that
the vigour of his language and attitude was, per-
haps, injudicious as addretsed to a young woman
whose sinister-looking and powerfully -Tbuilt
father was probably within hearing. He, there-
fore, moderated his tone, and enquired, with some
perturbation, where Mr. Robinson was at this
P *The D r’eply was furnished by Ah How, who,
awakened from dreams of the Flowery Land by
the noise of Mr. Soroople’s return, had oome with
a revolver in his hand to see what the objurga-
tions meant, and now apprised Mr. Scroople that
the worthy host was “ welly dlunk,” and that to
attempt to rouse him would be “ no /rood.
Mr. Scroople, having satisfied himself that this
statement was correct, by listening to kiery Toma
stertorous breathing, which was distinctly audible
through the partitions, dismissed Ah How from
further attendance, after borrowing the revolver,
whioh the heathen surrendered without the
slightest indication of furiously raging, and re-
sumed the aggressive.
Turning to the weeping girl, he seized her wrists,
and forcing them from her face, he glared into her
eyes, and, in tones of hissing malignancy, told her
that her sham crying did not impose upon him, for
he had recognised in his assailant, despite of
blacked face and altered dress, her damned lover,
young Bruce. No doubt, he sneered, the young
man had received many favours (Mr. Scroople ac-
cented this word viciously) from her; let her claim
in return the restoration of his property. Let her
see to it, he said, or by —‘ hermaramour should
swiriK for it, and sh© should bo trisd ate his ®coom-
plfce.


To these threats the unhappy girl replied by sobs
and vague sentences. “OI It was not he. O! she'
would try and get the property restored, if Mr.
Scroople would but promise to let the matter
drop. O! her heart would break. O! what should
she do? 0! she had begged him to alter his career.
And a procession of similar O’s, sufficient to set up
a criminating decimal system. ,
How deeply the unhappy girl had committed
herself by these wild and inconsiderate admissions,
and also how it happened that Mr. Scroople was so
very overbearing when his recent assailant might
be expected any moment to return to the “ den of
thieves,” will be understood when it is mentioned
that Mr. Scroople was aware that there was a par-
ticularly acute ear at the key-hole, and that that
ear was attached to the head of Mr. Police Inspec-
tor Fogarty. , „ „
The night being now far advanced, Mr. Scroople.
fatigued by his adventures, and confident in hia
present security, was disposed for retirement, and
he therefore flung from him the quivering hands,
he had till now retained in his grasp, and went to.
lie down.
Agnes, overwhelmed with shame and emotion,
took the opportunity likewise to retire to her
little chamber, and soon the Traveller’s Rest was
dark and silent. . , , , „
Mr. Soroople’s purpose had been simply to lie
down and rest; not to sleep. He had promised In-
spector Fogarty to keep his.ears open. But, de-
spite the grimness of his revengeful feeling, and
the keen anxiety he felt to recover his lost pro-
perty, and be revenged on the robber, even a,
Scroople shared the weaknesses incident to-
humanity, and in the midst of the most excellent;
resolutions to keep awake, he dropped his head on
the pillow and slumbered.
It was a pity no one was present to see him thus.
The mystery of his features was betrayed. His;
secret mouth was open, and assisting in the pro-
duction of mysterious snores. It was a very ordi-
nary mouth after all. But even Mr. Scroonle’s
snores were of an order peculiar to himself. They
were not honest, frank snores, such as are emitted
by men whose consciences are easy. Mr. Scroople’s
snores started with every promise of a good pro-
longed sound; but before they were fairly under
way they seemed struck with the idea that they
were disclosing too much, and broke off with a
sudden snort of cautious reticence, as if they had
admitted quite as much as was prudent.
“EGGSCUSE ME, MR. SCROOPLE, SOR, BUT I ARREST YOU ON SUSPICION,”
Lulled by this broken and Abrupt melody, Me.
Scroople slumbered lightly, but his suspicious and
watchful nature still asserted itself, for ho sud-
denly found himself sitting up on the bod, llsten-
'ing with all his ears to muffled sounds, as of whis-
pering voices, which penetrated the partition sepa-
rating his room from the one occupied by Agnes.
Mr. Soroople was wide awake in a moment after
regaining consciousness, and his oars were in
active exercise. That there were voices in the
next room, there was no uoubt. The words he
could not gather, but ho could make out that one
voice was that of Agnes and the other wfls a male
voice.
Mr. Scroople grasped his revolver, and made a
Blit in his mouth sufficient* for the emission of a
shout. But on second thoughts he paused. It
might be the girl’s father who was with her.
To sUde off the bed and approach his window,
which, like that of Agnes’ room looked down Into
the yard, was his next move. The night was dark,
but the sky, though partly obscured by driving
clouds, showed some stars. Mr. Scroople ooula
dimly discern objects in the yard.
In slipping off the bed he stumbled against a
chair. Ihe noise, slight as it was, appeared to
have been heard in the next room.
The voices abruptly ceased. A scuffling sound
as of some one getting out of the window followed,
and Mr. Scroople could make out the figure of a
man, evidently slender and young, gliding from
the window of Agnes’ chamber. At this moment,
the clouds seemed to expose more starlit sky than
belore, and the watcher had no difficulty In recog-
nising in the man who had just quitted by the
window the bed-room of that demure Agues, the
figure of his assailant of the previous day—the
figure of Charley Bruoe!
Mr. Scroople immediately Hung open his own
casement, and presenting his revolver, pulled the
trigger. But as this worthy was inexperienced in
the use of these weapons, it so happened that he
presented arms with both hands, using the left to
pull the trigger, and the right to level the pistol.
It consequently happened that when the trigger
descended it fell upon Mr. Scroople’s own thumb,
which chanced to be on the nipple, and naturally
there was no explosion, unlass a volley of oaths
iw r ‘ Seroople merits that designation.
At the click of the trigger, and the sound of Mr.
Scroople s invocation i,o the lower powers, the
bushranger started, ami then fled swiftly into the
darkness, followed by » yelj fn>iß MF* Scroople,
and a shot as the result of a second wrestle with
the revolver.
At the sound of fire-arms, a faint shriek pro-
ceeded from Agnes’ room. Fiery Tom’s voice was
heard growling from the other end of the build-
ing, and a complicated babble of gutterals issued
from the retreat of Ah How, which, as afterwards
appeared, had been traversed by the ill-directed
bullet despatched by Mr. Scroople.
The next moment the rapid beat of a horse’s feet
galloping along the road was audible, succeeded
an instant later by the elatter of two more horses
urged to their utmost speed, and by a hoarse cry
of “ Come on, Billy,” recognised by Mr. Scroople,
Fiery Tom, and Ah How as the tones of Mr. In-
spector Fogarty.
Holding their breaths, the four listeners in the
Traveller’s Rest intently followed the sounds of
flight and pursuit. Just as the rapid pit-a-pat of
the galloping horses’ feet seemed to be dying away
in the distance, they gave place to the faint sound
of a crash, immediately followed by the explosion
of fire-arms and the clamour of many voices.
CHAPTER XI.
The Rigour of the Game.
In a few moments the trampling of horses, the
sound of numerous excited talkers, and the rattle
of wheels, gave evidenoe that a considerable party,
having with them a vehicle of some sort, was ap-
proaching the Traveller’s Rest from the spot
where the commotion had taken place; and
almost immediately by the first light of the grey
dawn, now beginning to break, a number of horse-
men could be seen coming up, escorting the
Monkey-Flat ooach, laboriously dragged by two
horses instead of the four which constituted its
ordinary team.
The verandah and parlour were immediately
invaded by the new-comers, who proved the
original occupants of the coach on its upward
journey, now looking haggard and disordered,
together with the police magistrate and volunteer
party from Monkey-Flat, already mentioned as
naving undertaken to scour the country in search
of the bushranger whose exploits had been alarm-
ing the district.
From the babel of tongues which broke out, the
bewildered occupants of the Traveller’s Rest were
enabled to gather the reason for this unlooked-for
re-appearance of the coach and passengers, which
oUght at this tittle to have been comfortably
housed in Monkey-Flat.
It appeared that a few hours after proceeding
on their way, when they had reached within a
couple of miles of Paradise Downs, the desperado
who had been the oocasion of all the foregoing
complications, had suddenly emerged from the
bush and had shot dead one of the leading horses
in the traces, and instantly turned his weapon on
Flash Parker, with a command to bail up. The
valiant Parker had thereupon, with consummate
presence of mind, snatched un the double-barrelled
gun from his feet and fired on broad principles,
with the unprofitable result of killing the remain-
ing leader. Having accomplished this feat, Mr.
Parker appeared satisfied that he had done his
duty, and he dropped his gun and submitted with
remarkable meekness to “ fall in ” with his scared
passengers, who, without resistance, obeyed the
bushranger’s directions, and ranged themselves in
a row with their hands in the air, as if they were
about to be put through a course of calisthenics
for the improvement of their “ deportment.”
Their complaisance did not stop at this; for, on
receiving peremptory instructions to that effect,
Flash Parker with much docility proceeded to tie
up one passenger after another to the wheels of
the coach, to which process they offered no decided
resistance; and this being accomplished, the valor-
ous driver submitted to be himself made fast to a
neighbouring tree.
The bushranger then, with great deliberation,
inspected and improved upon the handiwork of
Mr. Parker in the case of each passenger, and then
proceeded with an easy mind to empty their
pockets of all valuables and next to open the
mail-bavs and make a rapid selection from their
contents, showing a strong preference for regis-
tered letters.
His choice being made, and the Bpoils quickly
consigned to a valise he carried in front of his
saddle, the fellow, after a second review of his
victims’ bonds, and a few additions thereto with
saddle-straps, very methodically detached the two
remaining; horses from the coach, and drove them
helter-sk elter before him at a rattling gallop into
the bush, and was seen no more.
But h* > had been seen sufficiently. Despite his
blacked face and hands, and an assumption ®f
coarse v! iolence of voice and language, he had been
recognis ed. Two of the passengers were strangers
to the di strict, but the other two were storekeepers
at Monk ey-Flat, and they and Flash Parker were
alike satisfied that the bushranger was none other
than Charles Bruce, of Paradise Downs.
As soon as all likelihood of this desperate young
man returning was passed, the five unlucky crea-
tures in bondage commenced to strugglo to release
themselves. But so expert had the bushranger
been in his final revision of their fastenings, that
the more they pulled and struggled the tighter the
reins and straps cut into their flesh. They had,
therefore, to content themselves with shouting
for help, and for several hours produced a series
of plain and fancy yells which would have done
no discredit to the most vocal among a pack of
wolves.
Night had closed in when, by good fortune, the
patrolling party from Monkey-Flat, having been
advised by a messenger from the township that
the coach had not arrived, came along the road,
and released the numbed and exhausted vocalists.
Two of the rescuers’ horses were pressed Into
service to draw the coach, the riders seating them-
selves therein, and it was judged expedient to
make back to the Traveller’s Rest, as the nearest
refuge where accommodation and refreshment
for so numerous a party was procurable, while
Flash Parker, supported by the Monkey-Flat con-
stable, proceeded to Paradise Downs to bring back
the change team kept by permission of its double-
faced owner in the paddock of that station.
The rest is quickly told. The party bad slowly
progressed during the night, and had arrived close
to the Traveller’s Rest, when they heard the re-
port of Mr. Scroople’s pistol-shot, followed almost
immediately by the sound of a horse galloping
furiously down the road towards them, with other
horses following. The darkness before the dawn-
ing evidently prevented the approaohing rider
from seeing the coach till he was close upon it,
when he suddenly swerved off the track, and in
so doing dashed violently against a tree with a
horrible crash, just as the travellers fired a volley
at him.
It took but a few minutes for Fiery Tom, Agnes,
and Mr. Scroople to gather the gist of this account
from the babble of the new arrivals, and they were
able to comprehend what burden it was that two
dark figures had lifted from the coach, and were
now carrying into the hotel.
As it passed him, the new chum passenger, with
an involuntary instinct, placed his handkerchief
over the blaok and battered face, but not before
both Agnes and her father had caught a glimpse
of the wavy curls and silky beard of the unhappy
young man.
A quivering shriek proceeded from the one,
and a terrible groan from the other, as the bearers,
two natives, carried the body in and deposited it
in the chamber from which Mr. Scroople had seen
it emerge in all the vigour of youth and life but
a few minutes before. Laying it on the girl s bed,
the blackfellows returned into the parlour, and
one of them spoke:—
“ Be Jabers,” remarked this intelligent abori-
gine, “ Charley Bruce won’t tell an aflicer av
police to go to the divvil in such a horry again. It
takes a schmarter bboy than ivver he was to desave
Inspictor Fogarty. I knew he would be sthravag-
ing round this place now the girl was about, so 1
just blacked me faee and camped within soight wid
tracker Billy here.”
“ Whin I took patrol along the thrack afther
dark, and found this gintleman tied up to a tree
wid a gag in his jaws, I tould him to hould his
whist and kape his ayres open, an’ I’d guarantay
to clap the darbies on my man before marmng.
Bad cess to the tree that be run agin. Our harses
was fresh wid shpelling in hobbles all day, an
Billy an’ I would have run him down aisy.
“ And his accomplices. Inspector,” eagerly cried
Mr. Scroople. “ This rascally old man and aban-
doned girl who have been sheltering him. You
will arrest them, won't you ? I can swear I saw
that bushranger fellow get out of the girl s bed-
room window just when I fired. Besides, he
added, by an afterthought, “ I charge the old man
with robbing me. I missed five flO-notes while 1
put up here 1” ...
“ Lave me to do things me own way, will yez ?
replied the Inspector, with an air of official dig-
nity, which was a good deal marred by his present
resemblance to a Christy's minstrel.
“ Some of yez kape your eye on Fiery Tom and
Surl. There'll be two informations against Tom—
arbouring, and staling the notes; and harbour-
ing against the gurl. ■ Sir,” he continued, address-
ing himseif to the Monkey-Flat pc lice magistrate.
“ All right, Fogarty,” responded the magistrate,
“ make somebody bring writing materials, and we
can have the information and the warrants at
The two persons against whom the dreadful
machinery of the law was about to be invoked re-
mained absolutely silent and passive.
Fiery Tom was seated on the bed beeide the
corpse, one hand of which he seemed to fondle with
his own.
Agnes had fallen on the parlour couch. Her
face was almost hidden by her hands, but what
little could be seen was of an alabaster whiteness,
and but for occasional convulsive sobs that seemed
to rack her delicate frame, it might have been
thought that she had died.
However, attention was diverted by the re-ap-
pearance of Inspector Fogarty, with the valise in
which the bushranger had bestowed his plunder.
The recently despoiled crowded around as the
officer discharged the contents of the valise upon
the table, and commenced methodically to make a
list.
“ That’s mine 1” “ There’s my purse I” “ Ah!
my documents.” “ I see my watch.” Exclama-
tions such as these came from every side. But the
Inspector repressed the enthusiasm by perem-
torily demanding order.
“ Divvle take ye! lave yer hands aff that watch!
Put down the purse, will ye? Take yer time
everybody I”
“ What the mischief are ye meddling with that
letter for ?” he continued angrily and abruptly :
“ d’ye want to get into throuble ?”
“ The letter is addressed to myself,” retorted the
offender, who was no other than Mr. Soroople, and
who was already half-way through his perusal.
As he spoke, his mean features were illuminated
with an Indescribable joy. His little eyes scin-
tillated with Irrepressible delight. His mobile
mouth trembled with excitement.
“ Keep your place, Sir,” he cried, with an ex-
traordinary accession of importanoe, to Mr.
Fogarty, who had his fingers on the letter, and
was about to twitch away. “ Keep your place or
I’ll teach you how to demean yourself to a gentle-
man in my position. This letter, Sir, conveys in-
telligence which places one of the finest estates in
Hampshire in my possession by virtue of one of
these documents.”
“ Give me the deeds instantly I” he cried, with a
sudden tone of anxiety and ferocity, as he snatched
from among the spoils the instruments signed the
previous afternoon by Charley Bruce.
“ So old Mr. Bruce, of Hampshire, is dead, is he ?
and you succeed to the estates as assivn of his
grandsoD, Charles Bruce, of Paradise Dowbs?”
said a voice in the room. The voice was familiar
yet seemed strange to most present.
Standing at the table was Fiery Tom, with a
strange light in his eyes. It was he who had
spoken.
“Of course I will,” cried Scroople; “the will
leaves the property simply to the next of kin, and
lam his assign. You witnessed the deeds your-
self. you scoundrel; vou can’t deny it, even it you
perjure yourself. Here's your signature. Does
anybody know the man's signature?” enquired
Mr. Scroople with great excitement.
“That is ray Signature,” said old Tom, quietly ;
“I have no wish to deny it; and for attaching that
signature you paid me the fifty pounds you just
now falsely charged me with stealing. But say, did
no lives intervene between Charles Bruce and this
old man just dead ?” ......
" What business is that of yours ? shrieked
Scroople, beside himself with anger. “ No, none.
There was a son older than that young man s
father, but he and his brats died years ago. What
d’ye mean ? What do you want to know about it t
I suppose your fine daughter there was married to
the fellow, and you want to repudiate and claim
something for her, you hoary villain! But I know
what I am about! I haven’t studied law for no-
thing. I’ll soon show." .
“Your fears and suspicions are misdirected,
said Fiery Tom. “ The deed is a good one, and my
daughter is unmarried.”
“Och, baithershin!” remarked Inspector Fogarty,
impatiently, “drop your barneying; sure there s
rale business enough to do without listening to
nonsense. Just kape yer eje on these things, sir,
will ye ?” he said to the Police Magistrate, % ana
I’ll get some of this black washed off my face.
So saying, Mr. Fogarty retii ed to commence ms
ablutions in the room recently occupied by Mr.
Scroople, through the open door of which he was
shortly seen busily sousing his countenance.
“ I have a record of that eldest son 8 death* gen-
tinmen, cut from a newspaper,” Mr. Scroople con-
tinued, with nervous eagerness. “It happenea in
this very district. Here, Ins Jtctor, let me ha
that pocket-book, just for a moment, and, as ne
spoke, Mr. Scroople dived among the articles on
the table for his cheriihed property, and, opening
it. produced from among the papers it contained a
slip cut from a newspaper, and gummed on a sneer
“ P Here you are,” he continued, triumphantly.
“The Monkey-Flat Chronicle-——” ,
"My paper,” interjected one of the vomnwei
patrol, who had hitherto not spoken. ,
"Your paper, sir, is it? replied Mr. Scroople.


Christmas Month
at
THE ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE.
WE may fairly, we think, claim the credit of
at all times, when circumstances will per-
mit, readily, and of our own free will, reducing
our prices for the benefit, of our customers.
f-o publishing our CHRISTMAS ILLUSTRATED
SUPPLEMENT with latest revisions, we give our
country friends, and indeed all those living at a
distance, an opportunity of taking advantage of
what we are doing this season. As we have already
stated, our prices are lower this Christmas than
they have been in former years, and our Show-
rooms are filled with attractive Goods of every
description suitable for every class of buyer.
Our Bjok, besides being Illustrated, gives a com-
plete Alphabetical List of everything kept in
Stock. It is, therefore, particularly useful to
parties living in the country, for advantage can
be taken of our extraordinary low prices without
the trouble and expense of a vis t.
COPIES ARE SENT
Post free, to all parts of the Colony.
CAMPBELL BROTHERS,
ROYAL FURNISHING ARCADE,
136 George-street, Sydney. Next the Royal Hotel.
A LARGE assortment of Christmas and New
Year Cards, just opened. 1 doz. sent to the
country »t Is., 35., 35.; assorted half dozen at 35.,
3g,, 45.; nice ones at is., Is. fid. 35., 3s. fid. Birthdav
Cards from 3d. to 3s. fid. Friendship and Wish
Cards from Is per doz. to Is. and 3s. Scotch N.Y.
Cards, 4s. doz., assorted. Wallace, fid William-street.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 18th December,llBB4.
TENDERS FOR RETAINING-WALL AND TAR-
PAVING.
TENDERS are invited for erecting a Retaining-
wall and for Tar-paving, at the Darlinghurst
Public School.
PlaDB and Specifications maybe seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the office of the Depart-
ment of Publio Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed “Tender for Retaining-wall
and Tar-paving, DarliDghurst Public School,”
must be lodged with the Under-Secretary, Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, at or before 10 o clock
a.m., on Monday, the sth January, 1885.
The Minister does not bind himself to accept the
loweßt or any tender. w , j. IRIOKB TT.
TEA EXTRAORDINARY.
ASKEW "and CO.’S
“London Blend Tea
At 2m. per lb.
13 the Best ever sold at the price. Possessing
great strength with delicacy of flavour, it
wi 1 be found extraordinarily fragrant and
agreeable, and a most useful tea' where there is
a large consumption. Recommended to all who
wish to save in their tea.
ff* Sample sent post free on application.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
209 George Street West
(OPPOSITE NEWTOWN 110 AD).
WILLIAM DAVIES & CO.
(Esta mashed 1837), ,
GrOULBXJRN’.
IMPOSTERS OF
Drapery, Grocery,
IRONMONGERY,
AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY, &C , &C.
Tailors , Milliners, Dressmakers.
|3F“ The Largest and Best Lighted Stores in the
Southern Distriot.
FURNITURF, CARPETS, LINOLEUMS,
RUGS, WALL-PAPERS, &C., &C.
Ex Mail Steamer, “ Ganges,”
Special Novelties for Xmas.
All Goods at Wholesale Prices for Cash.
Price Lists and Patterns on application.
WILLIAM DAVIES & CO.,
AUSTRALIAN STORES. GOULBURN.
Department of Public Instruction,
Sydney, 17th December, 1884.
TENDERS FOR 6UPPLY OF FURNITURE.
TENDERS are invited for supp’y of Furniture
required in connection with the Huristone
Training Scbopl, Ashfleld.
Plans and SpecltlcatioDS may be seen, and Forms
of Tender obtained at the ofHoe of the Depart-
ment of Public Instruction, Sydney.
Tenders, endorsed ” Tender for Supply of Fur-
niture, rturlstone Training School,” must be
lodged with the Under Secretary, Department of
Public Instruction, at or before 10 o’clock a.m ,
on Monday, the sth January, 1585.
The Minister do'.'S not bind himself to accept the
lowest or any Tender.
W. J. TRICKETT.
DENTISTRY UNRIVALLED.
Medals Gamed against the World
first Prizes ana Exhibition.
MR. F. WARE,
SURGEON-DENTIST,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
Corner George Si Market Street*, Sydney
nr Teeth painlessly extracted by Lausrbin* Gas
ACther Hrray, Methyllne. and Chloroform.
fit
*
*
Ci£
rr
A$
o
Arcades
Royal
Sidney
o
OH
AST I. £ <? SOf/s
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEOROE STREET
s v n n f v:
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEVVESI SHAPES.
HORDERN’S
ON THE
Sziclsfield Hill-
DIE STAY All GDitILT IEPAETMEIT.
Stays sent to any Railway Station
Euee of Charge.
/ c
£ D
O
iP
I
rs,
Nursing and Riding Stays.
Call In and See our Stays!
Every Make, Shape, Size, Colour, and Quality
(SINGLE, DOUBLE, AND SPERM BUSKS),
3* lid., 3i. 3d., 3s. 9d., 4s. 6d., 4s. lid., ss. Od., 68. 6d., 78. 6d., Bs. (id., 9s. Od., 10s. Od., 128 (id.
EDWARD HORDERN AND SON 9, 668 f Brickfield Hill.
N.B.— Orders from the Country will receive Immediate and careful attention.
Glad to know you, I’m sure, Sir. A moat reliable
journal that of yours, Sir. In its facts. Especially
in its facts. Now, gentleman, this moat reliable
journal states, under date February 15,18—, a little
more than nine years ago, as follows:
“ Fatal Accident —We have to record the death,by
a fall from his horse, of a gentleman who was travelling
in this district. It appears that the deceased was riding
at a rapid rate, with some other travellers, along the
back track to Nawaamera station, when his horse
tripped over an inequality in the road and fell, throwing
his rider heavily on his head. The unfortunate gentle-
man was found, on his companions dismounting to
raise him, to be quite dead, his skull being fractured.
The deceased was Mr. Thomas Bruce, the eldest son of
Bobert Bruce, Esq, of Elmdale, in Hampshire. He
was a recent arrival in the colony, and a widower. A
remarkable futility appears to have attended this
gentleman, as but a shirt time ago his only son end
daughter were drowned by the upsetting of a boat in
b.vdoey U rbour. One of the gent'eraen who was
riding in his oompanv, happening tl be a magistrate,
no enquiry was considered necessary, and an order for
burying the deceased was givdn on the spot.”
“ Why, Tom, you wrote that paragraph your-
self!” exclaimed the person who had announced
himself as the proprietor of the Monkey-Flat
Chronicle. “ You brought it to me, and assured
me it was reliable. I remember the circumstanoe
quite well.”
“ It is true: I wrote that paragraph. The man it
speaks of had no business to live. He was a dis-
graoed ma«. He had been unjustly spurned as a
sooundrel from his father's door. He desired that
that father should never hear of him again. Yes,
1 wrote that paragraph; t sent a copy of the paper
in which it appeared to that father. I renounced
him. I disinherited my ownfather. For I am that
man, gentlemen; 1 am Thomas Bruce!"
CHAPTER XIT,
TntMPING Mil. SCROOPLE’B Best CAHDS.
At these audacious words the listeners started to
their feet. Mr Scroople’s face blanched—if a face
which becomes of a dirty-greenish tint may be said
to blanch. Agnes raised her drooping head with
astonishment. . . „
“ Aye,” resumed Fiery Tom. “your face tells me
you recognise me now. Sooundrel, I recognised
you long ago. When I read those deeds you got
Charlev Bruce, my nephew, to sign, then I knew
you. Villainous rascal, false steward, thief, Per-
jured traitor, nouit know to whom I owe my ruin;
now I know who stole the moneys which my father
charged me with takiDg; now I know who poisoned
his mind so that he would listen to no explanation,
hut drove me a stained, ruined man from his doors,
it is due to your damned machinations that I am
what to-day I am. At your door rests the miserable
fate of that un happy boy whose body lies in yonder
room. It was you to whom my lather owes a
lonely embittered old age-you, his faithful, his
confidential steward. It was you, Mr Ebene/.er
Scalland, as surely as 1 am Thomas Bruce I ”
This address, delivered with over-whelming
force and passion, fell like a thunderbolt on all
present. In speaking, Fiery Tom seemed to nave
changed his whole being, and to have been re-
placed by a grand towering figure of a man, with
features instinct with intelligence, dignity, and
indignation. . , *l. * *
Mr Inspector Fogarty, astonished by the torrent
of burning words, suspended his ablutions and
cocked one sharp ear, now standing out white on a
black back-ground of cheek, towards the parlour.
Mr Scroople quailed before the attack as long as
it lasted, but quickly recovered sufficiently to re-
tort with a giggling and spasmodic sneer.
“A very nice cock-and-bull story. You are Mr
Thomas Bruce, are you ? Very fine, indeed. But I
think Fiery Tom will have some trifling difficulty
in establishing his identity with Mr Thomas Bruce,
who died nine years ago. Itwontdo, liery Tom:
where are your witnesses ?”
“Thomas Bruce,” cried at this moment anew
voice—the agitated voice of a woman— “ how came
you here? Where is the man they call Fiery Tom?
and what has he done with my son?”
The speaker had just entered by the door. It
was Mrs Bruce, of Paradise Downs, who on receipt
of the note from Agnes, only delivered that morn-
ing by Flash Parker, when he called to get his spare
team out of the paddock, had instantly insisted on
being driven to the Traveller's Rest.
And bewildered by the conflicting aocounts com-
municated to her on the way by Flash Parker and
the constable, and not understanding how her son
could be arrested and yet be at large and i obbing
the coach, bad that moment arrived, racked by the
most agonising anxieties. ,
At the sound of her voloe, Fiery Tom looked to-
wftrds her.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “ there is my witness.
Scalland, scoundrel, heaven works against you,
“ What does this mean ? ’’ cried Mrs Bruce.
“Thomas Bruce, my husband s brother, how
came you here ? Why is Mr Scalland, your father s
steward, with you ? Oh, what has happened . AN hat
have you done with my son ?’’ ~ ~ .
“Your son, Alice,” replied Tom, hesitatingly;
“ I do not know—l cannot say—”
”AJas !” interrupted the unhappy mother, ap-
palled by the looks with which the strangers re-
garded her. “I see it all, you have killed him
amongst you ; my Charley is dead !
“ Why, mother, what on earth is the matter with
you ? ” cried a surprised but cheerful voice from
without, and Charley Bruce, just dismounted from
his horse, strode in from the verandah, and gazed
with astonishment about him. ... . , ,
At this apparition the police magistrate started
and upset his chair ; Mr Scroople absolutely opened
his mouth, tne others present stared and gabbled,
while Inspector Fogarty made a dart, soap in hand,
from Mr Scroople T s room into Agnes chamber,
aDd rushed to look at the bed.
The ghastly object lay there still. Inspector
Fogarty, after lifting the handkerchief for a
moment from the face, and studying the features,
returned thoughtfully to his ablutions, soliloquis-
ing the while. . .. ... _ -
“As like as two pays,” muttered the police of-
ficer. “The figure’s the same, and the faytures
not much different. The hair the same colour, and
the bayrd wore the same way. A,l owing for the
blacked face and the dark, it was no disgrace to be
mistaken. But who was he at all ?
Fiery Tom was the first to speak.
“ I understand your surprise, gentlemen, he said,
“and perceive the misapprehension you nave been
labouring under. The unfortunate young man
whose body lies yonder was my most unhappy son,
and consequently cousin to this youngman, whom
in appearance he closely resembles. His presence
in the neighbourhood during the past week was
known only yesterday to myself and daughter.
That I endeavoured to dissuade him from continu-
ing his dangerous career is nothing. But he re-
sisted the affectionate solicitations of the sister
whom he had so little known, and whom it was his
duty to protect through life. Alarmed by the
strong parties out in all directions, he last night
sought this house previous to de for ever
from this neighbourhood. He would have aroused
me. but failed, because” —here the speaker fal-
tered and paused a moment, then resumed flrmly-
“ because I was sleeping off drunkenness. He then
sought bis sister’s chamber, and was betrayed. b>
the same evil genius as had blasted his fathers
life. Ebenezer Scalland heard his movements and
gave the alarm which resulted in his death.
When Fiery Tom ceased to speak, there was a
dead silence, during which Agnes Mrs. Bruce
turn to her with pitying face and open arms, and
glided across the room, till she laid her aching head
at last on that motherly bosom. ~
Even Mr. Scroople felt the game was up then,
and breaking thesilence with a snivelling whimper,
he said to Fiery Tom, “Well, supposing you are
Mr. Thomas Bruce (which has got to be proved), f
suppose that young man will mv
money back. 1 want to leave Australia and in\ est
“ Your money shall be cast in your face. Seal-
land. No nephew of mine would touch a shilling
of yours,” replied Mr. Thomas Bruce with empha-
sis. “ Get you gone from my sight and your
dress shall he sent.” , , , ~,
“Oh. well, I'm sure I don’t want to stay, re-
sponded Mr. Scroople. with a snarl. 111 K®t my
nag. There’s a much more respectable public
down the creek. Rowdy Joe’s place, you know.
This shaft discharged, Mr. Scroople turned to go,
when suddenly a rather remarkable visage blocked
his passage. This pertained to Inspector Fogarty t
who at the third repetition of Mr. Scroople b altos,
fancied he had met with it before, and had aban-
doned all pretence of proceeding with his toilet to
refer to a fat pocket-book which he e:\tracted
from a dilly-bag he had carried while masquerad-
ing as a blackfellow, “ just to kape up the eharac-
thur,” he said. The inspection of the various
scraps and memoranda contained in this book ap-
peared entirely satisfactory, for, as Mr. Scroople
turned to go, tho active officer intercepted his de-
parture by thrusting before him a parti-coloured
face, one side washed and the other still Christy
Minstrel.
“The name,” said Mr. Fogarty, with unction,
“is Scalland, I think. Ebenezer Scalland, long
nose, yes; slightly marked with small-pox, yes;
small eyes, yes: thin lips, yes; charged with em-
bezzlement of £llOOO from his late employer, Robert
Bruce, Esq., of .Hampshire. Absconded; be-
lay ved to have gone to Australia. Eggsscuse me,
Mr. Scroople, sor, but I arrest you on suspicion of
being one Ebenezer Scalland; and I apploy,’ con-
tinued the Inspector, addressing the police magis-
trate, “ for a remand of eight days for the produc-
tion of the warrant.”
CHAPTER XIII.
COUNTINO THE POINTS.—CONCLUSION.
My story is told. But as I know there are exact-
ing readers who are not satisfied unless they have
the finale related to the very dregs, and scorn mere
suggestion as to the natural conclusion, a few
words may be added by way of Envoi.
The timely appearance of Charley Bruce was a
very simple matter, indeed. He had merely carried
out his intention of riding to Monkey-Flat, and
th«re lodging Mr. Soroople's big cheque for safety
with his friend Mr. Coyne, of the bank. That
done, he bad, after stopping to have some supper,
made a start for home, which he had reached a little
before daybreak, his nocturnal ride being under-
taken in consequence of his determination that his
dear mother should have her first Christmas greet-
ing from him and no one else. That he had fallen
in with none of the other parties who were simul-
taneously in motion along the track was due to
the fact that, relying on his knowledge of the
country, he travelled principally by short outs
through the bush.
On arrival at tho station, he learned to his sur-
prise that his mother had before daybreak received
some note by Flash Parker, and had straightway
ordered the buggy out, and started for the Travel-
ler’s Rest, driven by that worthy and accompanied
by a constable who had come with him. At the
same time he learnt, with various exaggerations,
what had been the cause of Parker’s early visit,
and had instantly resumed his journey in order to
follow his mother, and assist her in whatever might
be the extraordinary circumstances which had
urged her to undertake so singular an expedition.
Hence hisappearance at the Traveller's Rest imme-
diately after Mrs. Bruce's arrival there.
Why Fiery Tom, otherwise Mr. Thomas Bruce,
bargained for fifty pounds with Scroople when
witnessing the deeds has never been satisfactorily
explained. Mr. Thomas Bruoi himself has said
that he suspected the man was making a dishonest
bargain, and made the demand as a test. But lam
disposed to believe that partial inebriety and evil
habits had something to do with the action.
How the eldest son of an English gentleman had
fallen so low as Fiery Tom, is more easi ,y explained.
A false pride, which revolted at serving under an
employer, had barred his advancement in the or-
dinary channels of colonial business. Expensive
and indolent habits had involved him in pecuniary
difficulties, and he had gradually allowed himself
to drift anyhow until the independent butdebas
ing position of the keeper of a low country public
had ensnared him, and he had steadily sunk to be
an unprincipled old tippler.
While he stood nerved by passionate indignation,
denouncing the devilish author of all his calami-
ties, we have seen that the old man seemed a
nobler, grander creature. His former unflinching
spirit, his culture of manner and force of charac
ter, seemed to have returned to him.
But when the temporary excitement had passed
away, he collapsed both physically and mentally.
The events of the trying Christmas Eve and morn-
ing had permanently shaken and enfeebled a
frame and intellect undermined by a long course
of excessive drinking.
From that moment Fiery Tom rapidly declined,
and had to be watched and attended like a child.
Mrs. Bruce went to the metropolis, and took her
nieoe with her, and after a decent interval, in view
of the death of Agnes' brother, Charley fallowed,
and made that charming girl his wife. ‘
Mr. Scroople made an enforced voyage back to
England, stood his trial for embf zzlement. and
is undergoing a sentence of penal servitude of
seven vears.
Many Christmas days have come and gone since
the date of the incidents I have described. Fiery
Tom has gone where tho weary are at rest, and a
more affectionate and domestic oouple are not to be
found in England than Mr. and Mrs. Charles Bruce,
of Elmdale.
Mothers with siokly, fretlul, nursing chil-
dren, will cure the child and benefit themselves by
taking Hop Bitters daily. See.
Thousands die annually from some form
of kidney disease that might have been prevented
by a timely use of Hop Bitters. Read.


DALTON’S RISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What ails you, mate ?” In a kind of stupor
The stranger fastened his haggard eyes
On the sun-brownedlface of the handsome super.
Who managed the station of Dalton’s Rise -
’Twas the face of a man, tall, and strong, and
sinewed *
Yet to him it peered from a long-closed grave,
And he dumbly stared, while Diok Ross con-
tinued: ijt
“ Go up to the hut, mate, and see old Dave;
“ He’s a rusty file, but you’ll get some tucker- —-
Poor chap!—looks a new-chum, and real dead-
beat.’’
Then, spurring his horse (once a noted “ bucker
He rode away through the blinding heat.
Through the creek-bed where glittered old bro-
ken bottles,
And the horse-hoofs flung a dry spray of sand;
Past the gloomy clumps of the bloomlees
wattles
Whose boughs hung still as a dead man’s hand;
Past the branding-yard, where the capstan bro-
ken,
That had once hauled up the rebelling steers.
In its battered and moss-grown form, gave token
Of long disuse, and unsparing years;
Past the blackened logs here and there remaining
To tell of a wild night of Are and crime,
To the ranges’ foot, where, abruptly reining
His horse, he stopped, musing, “There’s lots
of time—
“ I can yard them all when the sun sinks lower,
And the breeze springs up at the long day’s
close;
They have pictured Time as a busy mower—
Well! to-day I care little how fast he mows;
For the hours , shed Are, and the air seems
molten,
As it ripples past in a'weary tide.”
Then, he somehow fell thinking of Alice Dalton,
Who—somehow—had promised to be his bride.
And the horse, while his rider once mote to Alice
Vowed deathless love—as he oft had done—
With a quite unaccountable equine malice
Roved off from the shade to a belt of sun,
Where, under a hollow pretence of cropping
Luxurious grass where such grass was not.
He had made up his contrary mind for stopping—
When the deadened sound of a far-off shot,
•
Borne to Dick's ears from the sheltered level
Where the homestead lay, made him quite
forget
His angel, and suddenly cry “ The Devil!
What’s that ?” when another—another yet
Came in sharp rejoinder: “ My God! what is it?”
He cried again—” Can those convict dogs
Who murdered Brown have paid us a visit ?”
Then, wheeling, he dashed over fallen logs,
Like a man gone suddenly mad —through
tangles
Of scrub and thorn—to the homestead straight
By a way that saved the delaying angles
Of the beaten path. “ God 1 if I’m too late J”
As the terrible thought all at once came o’er him,
And blanched hiaiace with an awful dread,
Flashed the red quick fire from ajtree before
him,
And down plunged his horse in the grass, stone
deadl
Diok Ross was game. With the sudden blood on
His face down-streaming, and eyes that blazed
From a faoe like Satan’s, he rose and stood on
His feet, defiant, yet hurt and dazed.
“ Not another step, or by G I’ll pot you!”
With two barrels levelled against his ear
Stood a’man, black-masked. “ Boss, l oould have
sh'ot you, , ~
But ’twasn’t for that I was planted here.
“ Put down your hands, or I’ll make you rue it;
And don’t gasp that way, or else you’ll choke.
Yes, I’ve shot your horse. I stopped here to
do it,
To save your life. D’ye see that smoke ?
D'ye hear them shots ? At this very minute—
Don’t move an inch, now; take my advice.
Don’t come at me, for there’s nothing in it.—
They’re putting a finish on Dalton’s Rise.
“ Hal they’ve fired the stables. Don’t stir—have
patience;
I have you covered, you see, old son.
I was stationed here by your own relations,
To keep you off, while they have some fun.
Didn’t know your brother, it seems ? He knew
you;
Ana he says to me, ‘Brummy, keep him back.’—
Now, you keep your plaoe, or a hole goes
No, t yo>u'hard sly 5 ly recognised Captain Jack,
” When you sent him upjto old Dave. By thunder,
He made us laugh when he told us that—
Just the man to help us to lift the plunder.
You must be a thoroughbred b —flat!
Old Dave and your brother were lagged to-
gether
The second time from this very same place,
For— Look at them galloping! H for lea-
That’s Sweeny’s horse! What a slashing chase!
“ Who the h ’s he after ? The front one’s tiring.
Look! There! he’s down! no, he’s up again I—
<3 1 w hy ain’t I near enough up for firing I
I’d fix some lead in his b— brain!
Sweeny’s- taking aim! Splendid shot! He’s
tumbled!
G strike me dead I how the bloko came down!
Well, that’s tone for Sweeny. Your brother
grumbled
Last week, because first shot he missed old
Brown.
“ Good! Another pop! Making sure, before he
Goes back to the homestoad to bear a hand—
Just to while the time, I’ve a little story
I’ll pitch you now, but you’ve got to stand
With your hands well down, for you’re so much
bigger,
You make me frightened, and—listen here,
If my finger shakes when it’s on the trigger
This thing goes off. Well, some twenty year
“ From the time we speak, I was in Tasmania
With Jack, your brother, on Dalton’s gang—
You’re pale, old cocky! they seems to pain you,
These remmynisoences—that’s it—bang I
That’s another down! You just keep your eyes
These 1 here revolvers, and not on me—
We hated Dalton, each man like pizon,
And fixed it up for a mutiny.
“Well, the thing came off right enough, but
Had grit in him, and he followed Jack
Over miles of country, and got the salt on
His tail, and brought him in irons back,
And me as well—but he shows the gashes
(If he lives till now, which I nhahtly doubt)
Of my knife. Well, we got three hundred lashes,
And he got pensioned, and soon cleared out
“ And turned squatter here. Eight or ten years
’ again—how, I needn’t tell,
And we swore together, by our Creator,
Not to rest till Dalton was sent to H -—;
And we tracked him here, and stuck up the
And burnt it down, and killed four and five—
And left only cinders and ruination;
But he-after all, he escaped alive.
** With his left arm broke, though we Bhot his
Andbraiued one kinchin against the wall—
May I never breathe, but, as sure as this is
A barrel—you notice ?—that’s charged with
With a native tracker, and single-handed,
He came on us while we slept one night.
We supposed him dead, and. to tell you candid
We all felt too funky to offer fight,
And he first shot down one, and then another,
Before we knew we were well awake,
But when he’d levelled upon your brother.
Jack yelled out, ‘Spare me, for Richard’s
sake ! ’ •
And at that he lowered. Why he’d adopted
A kid whose brother was lagged, God knows ;
But Jack just then would have surely copped it
But for that wrinkle—Hullo I there goes !
“ Not all dead yet! Then he made black Peter
Tie us (we ‘caved ’) to the trees ; I swear
That I never saw a thing done much neater
Than the way the beggar g ot at us there.
We were tried again. It was hanging matter,
And two of oqr quietest men were hung,
But Jack could always sling touching patter—
You never beard such a crying tongue.
“ And he saved his ugly neck, and so I did,
And Daye as well, and—were here once more.
When we made our plans, Captain Jack decided
To send old Dave a few weeks before
Just to spy around, for we could depend on
His tips, and of all the most fly old crows—
How the stable flames now the wind blows end
on !
Look I there’s Jack chasing something in
woman’s clothes!
“Don’t fret your fat! It’s old Dalton’s daughter,
Your brother wants her himself, you see ;
By H she’s off ! Run, ye swine ! |He’s caught
her;
It’s nearly over, if you ask me,
That settles that. The old dog is potted.
The girl—l think we’ll show her some life.
What ails you ? The veins on your hands are
knotted
And swelled—oh, yes !as our Captain’s wife
“ She’ll move in a rayther exclusive set of
Quite high-toned Lifers. To-day, I think
From Dalton’s book wipes our little debt off
And signs us square with his blood for ink;
Aye! before the sun has gone down to-day, no
Man here, exceptin’ yourself, will breathe ”
With his panting breast like a pent volcano,
Whose throbbings tell of the flame beneath,
Dick Ross had stood until now, the gash on ,
His forehead oozing forth drops of blood—
Bewildered and mad with despair and passion,
And heard what passed, but scarce understood
When a woman’s cry, long and shrill and ringing,
The shriek of an anguish extreme and dire.
Smote the air; and he sprang like a tiger
springing—
And God made the bushranger’s cap miss fire 1
“WHEN THE HISSING LEAD TO HIS HEART MADE WAY.”
They went down together. One instant after
Dick rose alone, and the strangled man,
With gulps that sounded like throttled laughter,
Lay strangely writhing. Without a plan,
Save this—to rush on to his love’s assistance—
Dick seized the weapons. From where he was
To the blazing homestead was no great distance,
And tearing off, without break or pause,
He made his way behind trees and fences
With frenzied haste till be gained a place
Whence he saw a sight which benumbed his
senses.
With shaking limbs and a corpse-white face
He cowered low. Through a bush between him
And where the convicts—some three or four,
Not one of whom, by Heaven’s grace, had seen
him—
Were dragging up to the open door
A grey-haired man, who in vain resisted
With his one arm against all their force,
He marked what passed—” Get his d d arm
twisted ■
Behind his back.” In tones hard and hoarse
The captain spoke, ‘Get him down andjtie him
To one of the strongest verandah posts ;
Then fire the house, and we’ll all stand by him
To hear him squeal while he slowly roasts.’
“ You’re fixed, Ned Dalton ! Aha I you boasted
In years gone by how you ran us down 1
Well, we’ve just assembled to see you roasted—
That skin of yours will go nicely brown 1
Quite funny, isn’t it I There’s your daughter.
I’ve got her tied. Now, before you go,
Just tip your blessing to us. The slaughter
Is over now, and you’ve got no show
“ By struggling that way—there’s no one liviDg
Round here to help you ; so do keep cool
(A joke of mine, lads), and be forgiving;
And don’t go on like a d d old fool 1
What? still dissatisfied! Do hear reason—
Well, since he won’t, let us have the Sports.
Ghost 1 won’t she flame, after suoh a season 1
Herel who has the matches?” Three quiok
reports!
Three dying men on the ground! To leap on
His steed and fly, was Jack Ross’s thought;
But, just as hg did it, a fallen weapon,
Which Dalton’s hand from the dust had caught,
Found a sudden voice. He had spurred his
horse on
And cleared the fence, when the hissing lead
To his heart made way, and, with one wild curse
on
His lips, he was dragged in the stirrups—dead!
* * *
That was long ago. Time is fraught with
changes;
And now, though the wattles are dim with
gloom,
And no bird-note sounds in the iron ranges
Whose brows seem knitted with thoughts of
doom— *
Though now, as of old, when the forest darkens,
And the night comes down, he who passes
there
Hears n<s other sound, howsoe’er he hearkens,
Save the gum-leaves stirred by the solemn air
As a cattle station, the Rise is noted;
And men who wear leggings, and carry whips
Of unusual size—men with lives devoted
To raising Beef—speak with reverent lips
Of Ross’s shorthorns, and in the Benate
They speak of Ross’s straight public life,
And, what I think better by far, the men at
The station would all die for Ross’s wife 1
Up the creek some old graves are, with wooden
crosses,
And here in the Summer the children come
To Dlay—young, emphatic, and noisy Rosses—
Till the grim bush around is no longer dumb ;
And often at night ere the tyrant Slumber,
Pulls down the lids on reluctant eyes,
They all press mamma-I’ve forgotten their
number—
To tell them the story of Dalton’s Rise.
J. FABRELL.
Queanbeyan, December 12,1884.
SMITH’S ATONEMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas night. Within a dim-lit room,
As slow the hours went by,
A friar knelt beside the couch
Of one about to die.
“ My son,” he said, “ the time is short,
Thy life is well-nigh spent;
Thy feet have strayed in evil ways,
But yet thou may’st repent.
“ Bethink thee well, ifast thou not been
Immersed in deadly sin ? ”
“ I have,” the sick man said, “ and yet
I don’t care half a pin.
What man could do of sin, I did;
What man could dare, I dared;
And yet I’m certain that for me
A mansion is prepared.
“ I know full well, this many a day,
A place for me alone
Has been reserved beside the foot
Of the great Golden Throne.
When fat divines have ‘jumped ’ my harp,
I feel they’ve been met with
These words, ‘ Ah! would you ? No, you don t:
That lot is kept for Smith.’
“I know no martyr who, of old,
With words of prayer and praise,
At Smithfield yielded up his life
Amid the faggots’ blaze—
No hermit dining off old boots
And wearing shirts of hair,
Can win such bliss as will be mine
Without or praise or prayer.
“ I know that Peter Campbell, when
To earth’s dark loss he dies,
Will wing his way to Heaven at once
As straight as the crow flies;
I know that General Booth will be
Passed in on Blood and Fire;
But I, who wallowed in all sin
And shame, as hogs in mire—
“ Who always did the thing I liked,
And liked no thing but crime—
Who drank and fought, and cursed and lied,
And had a splendid time—
Who all my life have tried to go
To Hell at lightning speed—
Will win a fairer Heaven than theirs
By one Atoning Deed.
“ Good friar, sit here, beside my bed—
’Tis idle toil to pray
For one who, at a single stroke,
Has swept his sins away.
Sit here, and ere I slowly die
And fade upon the night,
I’ll tell you how I came to wash
My sinful soul wool-white.
“ I never was a model boy—
E’en in my earliest youth
I filled the jam-pot up with tar,
And seldom spoke the truth;
I always had a special gift
For playing devil's tricks;
I broke my little sister’s arm
Before the age of six.
“ Whenever I might chance to meet
A lesser boy than I
I bore away his toys, and left
Him on the ground to die.
My single mission seemed to be
To give all others pain;
At ten years old, they said my brow
Displayed the brand of Cain.
At twelve, I ran away from home
With all my father’s coin;
I d read about a robber chief,
Whom I set out to join.
My brother started in pursuit
And brought me back, ’tis true;
But, afterwards, I got a chance
To bite his nose in two.
So I went on in courses which
But changed from bad to worse;
At last, I landed here with nought
Except my parents’ curse.
And from that hour my downward course
O'er facile levels ran;
In two years’ time—hold close your ear—
I was an alderman 1
i I next tried cattle-duffing, and
Achieved a big success;
But once 1 nearly got myself
Into an awkward mess—
But in my nearest neighbour's land
(I’d stolen branded steers)
I hid the hides, and these were found,
And he got fourteen years!
“ Whatever smacked of wickedness
I fairly revelled in,
And counted every hour as loss
Which was not clogged with sin:
I ve forged my brother’s name to cheques,
And coined, and ran a still—
I’ve done three years’ for an aEsault
With full inteßt to kill.
“ I’ve fixed up land-sales by the score,
And plunged into the deeps
Of back-block missionary games—
I’ve got up Tontine Sweeps—
I’ve bossed an Orange lodge for years,
(Good friar, look not askant) —
I’ve been—in fact, I still remain
A leading Protestant 1
“ But what care I ? It was my play,
’Twas fun to be depraved,
And go the whole hog, knowing well
I couldn’t help being saved.
’Twas joy to lead in Vice’s van,
To captain Satan’s crew,
Well knowing, howsoe’er I sinned,
That deed would pull me through.”
“ Vain, wicked wretch—to'.think thy deeds
To save thee could avail,
Thy impious words appal my heart—
Yet let me hear thy tale.
What hast thou done to win a power
None held since Life began,
To sin, yet suffer not ?” “Justthis:
It’s simple—killed a man.
“Start not, good friar—l smote him down
At one swift, sudden blow,
And hid his body in the bush
Where none might ever know.
No word of prayer I murmured, as
I gave him to the dust.
said ‘ Here's trumps at last—
I’ve done one actiod just.’
“As in the hasty grave I thrust
His Nibs, I said ‘ Now, bones,
Lie there and rot; for all my sins
This peerless act atones.
Henceforth, my life will merry be
As any marriage-bell:
Whate’er my pranks, I’m sure of Heavf n
For Bending thee to Hell.’
“ That’s all. O, friar, ’t was well for me
That man my pathway crossed;
Had I been weak, and let him live,
My soui had sure been lost.
What had he done ? My life fades out—
Heaven opens to my view 1
I begged a match to light my pipe—
He said, ‘A match for you%' ”
Ad Amiom Ignotam
[?]
Blessed with all goods, save one, of life
(My purple mantle richly ermined),
To ask you to become my wife,
Sweet girl, sweetheart, I’ve just determined.
I know there is some nameless grace.
Some charm which others can’t discover,
Around your winsome form and face
AVhich capitivates your greybeardjover.
By one bright glance my heart is won—
How, why, or when, I can’t tell surely;
But while I feel the mischief done,
You only smile and blufih demurely I
And you, my love and henceforth queen,
Although you look sedate and thrifty,
Have counted summers scarce sixteen,
While I have numbered winters fifty.
Yet though the world may count me old,
And say vou are too young to marry,
To win you, darling, I'll be bold.
Nor longer for my maiden tarry.
I’ve riches and a good estate,
I’ve health and houses, and a carriage,
Then why should we still longer wait
To crown our lives by happy marriage ?
So, if my Unknown Love relent,
And all my hopes have not miscarried.
If vou’ll but whisper a consent,
Then we’ll foregather and get married 1
BASH.
An old bachelor, peeing the errors of his waj s
while not yet too late, and finding no true happi-
ness in wealth unshared and life unblessed by love,
wants the “ right girl” to answer the above. He
requests any young lady of sweet sixteen (lady's
counting), who is not afraid of grey hairs, or ena-
moured of dandy dudes and modern mashers, to
to communicate with (She’ll know if she’s the
right girl)-
IN B —This is genuine. “Basil” means it.—
Ed. B.l
Heathens.
Inscribed (most respectfully) to the Clergy of
every Denomination.
Yes, dear brethren, we are now
Heathen, as the tropes you cram on ;
Heathen, while we shameless bow
At the gilded shrine of Mammon.
While we go to church and pray,
Yet neglect the suffering round us,
We are heathen as the day
When stern Caesar's legions found us.
We are heathens while our deeds—
Grown m hate and strange to pity—
Spurn the sorrows and the needs
Of the women of the city.
We are heathen while our youth
Hear from pulpits cringing preachers
Who, afraid to own the truth.
Yet assume themselves our teachers.
We are heathen while the eyes
Justice owns are wholly hidden
By the precedents and lies
Law we call, though Right s forbidden.
We are',heathen while demure
Merchants seek to rob their neighbours ;
While but sordid gains allure
Men to energise their labours.
We are heathen w hile we pass
Judgment on our many betters,
AVish them mirror'd in our glass,—
Never own ourselves their debtors.
We are heathen while with hoarse
Railings at a toiling people,
AVe would wrench their lives, and force
Every soul to build a steeple.
Yes, dear brethern, heathen we
While these things remain to shame us;
Heathen in our century,
Heathenas yourselves who name us,


Christmas Island.
[WRITTEN FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY V.J. DALEY.
His eyes are upon me even as I write—faint
blue-grey, introspective eyes, that never sparkle or
shine, but seem to see all things without effort and
without emotion. How is it that I am haunted by
“ 4nd I have just takenj
the blue Itihboa
*Vhat a pity 1 "
V A
.^ 0 '
I
JJ rfinstma* 'Went—
"UTciifincjfor t Xf.iS J
Stout Pabty . “Yes, my dear, I have, come to take m,>
Christmas dinner with you. Ain’t, you glad . J '
Child ■ '* Goodness gracious I and we have uni t >nk ouusk
What could tna have been thinking of to invite him
•• My word ' here's uncle Potiphar come all the way fP'tn
England in time to upend Christmas with os l
(Uncle Potiphar brought with him a few miles a* Christinas
presents lor the, family, but selelected without due regard to
the climatic needs of Australia
For instance. Lie H
brought a suit of furs iJ
for dad, such as is |
worn in the back-
woods of Canada, or
by Arctic explorers
A beautiul sledge for Qurry
And a warming pan for
\U rau rna—a beauty.
A pair of skates for Hob, wbo m
now onwaiting fur our beautiful
harbour te freeze over
Y Oll don't mean to say, uncle Potiphar, that you v ,
are really going to burn a yule log with the tlier-
tuometer among the 90’s—1 must protest." }.
%
A Christmas Carol in Black and White.
(BY L. HOPKINS.)
those eyes? I know not. Who knows anything
about the unseen world—the mysterious region
unconflned by our human ideals of Space and
Time, whose denizens pass through us as IE we
were shadows of smoke in the sun ? None.
* * *
There is a murmur of merry-making and
holiday in the air. You hear it first from the
children. The children are sure indicators of day
and date, where anything of a festive nature is m
Question. They know ail about Valentine s Day;
riiey remember, sometimes with distressing exacti-
tude, the festival of Santa Claus; they are the
especial guardians of Christmas Day. You think
not? Let me ask you how much interest you
would take in keeping holiday on this oocasion, if
it were not for the children. This subject might
be pursued further, but I wish to put things sug-
gestively rather than exhaustively. Yet though
the ohildren are merry, all the world is not so.
Look at the first five or six responsible-looking
men you meet—are they gay ? Their brows are
beetled with gloom, their faces furrowed with care.
The happy and Irresponsible youngsters may be
thinking of the Christmas cheer; but they are
thinking of the Christmas bills,
While 1 think of it—where is the Christmas
Tree ? In the old home-land, where, at this season,
the red-breasted robin comes shivering to the
window, and the small street Arab rolls the beauti-
ful soft snow into a spherical shape and hurls it at
the goloshed and muffled old gentleman going
round the corner—where the policeman walks
along, striking together his big woollen-gloved
hands for warmth, and casting sidelong suppliant
glances through area windows at Susan and Bally
and Mary Ann , and the rest of his kitchen charmers,
who are to him, at this time, potent and glorified
figures in a beatific vision of goose and plum-
puddiag -the Christmas Tree was (and we hope
is) considered indispensable to the proper celebra-
tion of the great festival of the year. The size
of the tree twas not of so much consequence as
long as there was a tree. I have even known
children, whose parents were too poor to afford
anything nearer nature, to be cheerfully contented
With a Christmas Tree of tin, bearing about three-
halfpence worth of fruit in the way of presents.
The children of the home-land are very young.
I can fanny the reception such a tree would meet
with at the hands of the sharp little people of the
colonies. You have seen often enough, I suppose,
that print of the rosy-oheeked boy and girl trudg-
ing through the snow—the boy with a small pine-
tree on his sturdy little shoulders, the girl carrying
an armful of red-berried holly! It has raised ud
no tender childish memories in your minds?
Well, it is a pity. Indeed, it is a pity, though
you can place blue skies and sunny weather
against my Christmas recollections of enow,
and keen cold, and thrushes fluttering in the baw-
i covered hawthorn tree. Yet you have your
i Christmas bush—gay of flower and glossy of leaf-
meet emblem of your brighter days and hopes.
But your Christmas as a time of festival is slowly
but surely dying out. It seems to be an exotic
1 that will not thrive in the brilliant Southern sun-
shine. Great blazing fires that gather family
groups around the hearth —the apple-cheeked
boys from school, the brown-faced son from sea,
and the uncles and aunts from distant neighbour-
hood—in the light of these alone, Christmas, 8
Christmas should be, flourishes and the Christmas
Tree is in its glory.
' * * *
I was speaking, just now, of responsible
care-worn men. Let me give you a picture of one
such. He is sitting at a table of a small room of a
small hotel. He is writing slowly, painfully
writing. His heart Is not in his work. He wants
to lie down on a green slope, where he can look
upon the sun-jewelled sea, and a far white sail,
swelling like the bosom of passionate Beauty, with
the wind from the land—and smoae. He rises at
last from his table, determining, "whoever suf-
fers,” to give up his writing and give in to his de-
sire that one day in the year, if never again. There
is a ready friend to applaud and abet him. They
take a tram and go into town. The sight of men
hurrying to and fro about their own proper busi-
ness—the sound of work on all sides—the thought
that every man he meets in tho street is earning a
living by labour—hard and uncongenial in most


oases—brings the blush of shame to his cheek, and
ne nerves himself to once more face his own appor-
tionod toil like a man. Now he is sitting in an
omce which might at a hasty glance be supposed
► 80me connection with a glass-blowing
establishment—there are so many bottles lying out.
But it has not. It is the office ef a journalist. The
noor is knee-deep in papers—country exchanges,
irom which the clever occupant of the office clips
dull paragraphs to transform into brilliant anec-
dotes and sparkling stories. Wooden pipes, with
huge bowls—the terror of all who carry cut-up
tobacco in pouches—are scattered over the table.
These, a pair of scissors like the shears of Atrooos,
two or three pens with which no man whose flesh
is grass cau write, and a pot of ink coagulated
?L noe T, tl ? e facial period, are the stock-in-trade of
the Enlightener of the publio mind. Here the
unhappy being I am speaking of sits down reluc-
tantly to write. Why should he write? you may
ask. Well, because he has the misfortune to have
a wire, and his wife has had the bad taste (being a
semi-blonde, with a hay-coloured complexion—a
tact which she would die rather than admit) to set
her heart upon a certain laburnum-silk dress,
which she has seen somewhere or other, and whioh
she considers will make an appropriate Christ-
mas present from her much-enduring husband,
there is no oopsolenoe in women where dress is
concerned. I verily believe that if the sex were
canvassed, and given their choice between a
silk dress and salvation, the majority would
attire in this world and trust to
Ju M r ,_ t ?« r °hance in the next. Perhaps you
will think this sentiment is unnecessarily sour. It
may be. But when I tell you that I am the
wretched writer in question, and that this is the
laburnum Silk Story, you may moderate your
opinion of the sentiment, and make some merciful
allowances for the story.
* * 9
It may as well start now, as later. I have
been endeavouring, with prattle of one kind or
a not nor, to put off the commencement of my nar-
rative as long as possible. But T feel that this is
merely foolishness. The sooner I have it off my
mind the easier I shall be. *
*99
This is an unstable woild. I have been ob-
liged to flv from my friend’s office. The bailiff is
in possession. No matter; lam now in the School
oi ArtSi surrounded by an atmosphere of lunch
“MAY I ASK, MADAM,” SAID I, “TO WHOM I HAVE THE HONOUR TO SPEAK?”
and learning. Surely, I should be able to get on
here, if anywhere. Am I a member, sir? Yes; I
am a member. Have I my card with me? No; I
have not; but next time I come in I shall have my
number painted on a placard, which I shall have
strapped to my back, so that you may be spared
the exertion of putting questions in this hot
weather. So much for him. I am now referring
to the deputy-sub-assistant librarian, or whatever
he may be, who is a person in pursuit of know-
ledge.
* * *
As sure as ever Christmas oomes round,
these memories come to me. The memory of a
dim little room in a village hotel; the memory of
faint blue-grey, introspective eyes looking at me
from across the table. Let me begin at the be-
ginning. Four years ago, I wandered into an old
township, situated no matter where exactly, but
not far from the MurruinSidgee. No matter,
either, what brought me there. It is enough that
I was there. Having failed ia the purpose for
which I came, there was nothing left for mo but
to plunge into the profession of journalism as
understood in country towns. You may have
read, at various times, descriptions of the duties
of a country editor, written by persona with an
inclination to waggishness. They have told you
that he, has not only to writo leaders, but dig pota-
toes and chop wood. This is a slander. He is not
required to write leaders, as a rule. However,
t akiDg one thing with another, I got on very well
there. I succeeded in keeping out of gaol, and
learnt some new combinations in euchre, which
have been a comfort to me in days of despondency
ever since. I had a horse to ride, who usually
coughed me out of the saddle three or four times
an hour—he had a chronic asthma, which the man
who sold him to me generously let me have tor
nothing—and a gun, with which I had a good deal
of sport, till the inhabitants—after I had shot at a
tame churchwarden in mistake for the police
magistrate—got an injunction against my using it.
This occurred about three weeks before Christ-
mas. It was at that time I met the Doctor.
* * *
He was a strange being, with long hair and
grizzled beard. Some of the villagers said that he
was not Bane; some that he was not sober. But
they all employed him whenever a case occurred
which baffled the other doctors. There were two
other doctors, and they were frequently baffled.
He never was. 8o that, in spite of his somewhat
sinister reputation, he had plenty of work. I did
not share in the prejudice of the people. Indeed,
trom the first moment I saw the Doctor, I took a
decided liking- for him. In a very short time
we became close friends, and this is what grew
trom it.
* * *
We were sitting in the dim little room
referred to-he on one side of tba
table, I on the other. We had been talking o?
things—metempsychosis among the number,
i b . a< t spoken of it as a fanciful speculation, which
only the mystic Hindoo mind could have origin-
ated. He listened to me with a grave smile, and
then suddenly precipitated me into mental chaos
by informing me that he had been .walking about
on this continent in the form of a man sixteen
thousand years ago. -You are bewildered,” he
said, noticing my expression; “listen to me. and
I will tell you what I have never told mortal man
before.
* • •
“I must begin,” he said, “with a few ex-
£&n atl w ni n ,T 0U , know Wallace’s line ? No ?
Well, Wallace s line is an imaginary boundary
drawn by the naturalist of that name around a
c ! r i2 iQ J? ortl ° n BU rface of the earth Routh
of the Equator, and separates one set of flora and
fauna from another set altogether distinct. I be-
iieve it extends to Madagascar in one direction.
ton.u? Scmth Sea Islands in ano her.
Within this line the marsupials are found, and all
the strange animals and curious fruits which seem
to belong to a different period of the world’s de-
velopment. It is not for nothing that this flora
and fauna are reckoned peculiar. They are the
last living representatives of an older creation,
cast in a mould more gigantio than is the life of
to-day. Thousands of years ago-before Helen
brought destruction to the towers of Ilium—be-
rore aesostris set up the pillared memorials of his
conquests as King of kings and Lord of lords—
before Nineveh, before Akkad, there was a great
continent stretching from coasts Mozambique to
furthest Polynesian isles. Thereon were king-
doms and powers and dominations—grander Romes
and sterner Bpartas—mightier despotisms and
nobler commonwealths. Art and Song were born
there. There the wonderful and terrible Edlc of
Man—compared with which Iliad, Mahabbarata, or
Divine Comedy are but faint echoes —was written
n a language which the men of that day fondiy
believed would last for ever. They made merry,
these men of the drowned and forgotten past;
feasted and fought; built them palaces to last
for everlasting, and said, * Lo, you, we are
as gods; these things shall never die.’ And now
where are they? Their very memory is dead;
their glory perished, and the places of their pride
washed to dust long ago by the wandering waves
of the restless sea. So ended the brachycephalic
men.”
■ • •
“The what?” I interjected in a confused
tone. “ The brachycephalic broad-headed
men,” he replied sevorely. “ But what do you
mean by saying that you were alive sixteen thou-
sand years ago, and how did you escape extinction
with the others ?” I enquired, “ Well, the fact is,”
he replied witn a tinge of embarrassment in his
voice, “ when I saw the waters rising to engulf the
land, I packed up my carpet-bag and walked
away.” I gave him an austere glance, which he
deprecated with a feeble smile. “Go on with your
story,” 1 said. And so he continued.
• • .
“ You may have thought me somewhat
pedantic in my remarks.” he said; “but I had a
reason for it. Ine ed not have said anything about
the human race that peopled this lost continent,
but I could not resist the temptation. What I
really have to speak about is the fauna found
thereon. Just imagine: we have here in Australia
survivors of some of the most ancient of the
animal tribes of the earth. Do you think they
have hoarded no knowledge during the thousands
and thousands of years they have existed ? Sir, I
have bad the acquaintance of a crow who knew
more than any six of your spectaoled professors.
You are now with all your vanity in the infancy of
civilization. Your greatest sage would have been
put to the blush by a brachycephalic baby. And
the end of all the culture of these wise men of old
was that they acknowledged themselves the in-
feriors of animals. It will come to that with you
some of these thousands of years. True, in toe
time I refer to, what you contemptuously call the
brute creation was not dumb. All living things
oouid speak, and I have heard more wisdom from
a congress of oysters than I ever hope to hear now
from a bench of judges. Science is slowly but
surely advancing to one inevitable conclusion—
that the animal kingdom is higher in the scale of
creation than the human. Dim recognitions of
this fact may be found in early Eastern tales and
the folk-lore of all nations. You will find, In a
time far-off, maybe, but coming nearer, that these
hints are only veiled truths. No primal tradition
is founded on fallacy. I could put this matter in a
clearer light if I had more time, but the narrative
I am going to give you may do something towards
making you realise the fact that animals are your
and my superiors. And I shall consider my time
well spent if I shall have induced you to resolve
never to Jose an opportunity of making a beast of
yourself.”
* * *
It was on Christmas Day two years ago.
I was riding through the bush,on my way home,
I had spent Christmas Eve with a friend who kept
a small distillery. I lost myself—lost myself,
although I knew the track as well as I do the way
to tnis hotel. I was surrounded by hills—frown-
ing and dark as brooding Titans—covered with
trees whose foliae-e was of a burnt-grey colour,
depressing to look at under any circumstances,
but terrible to one who was face to face with the
thought that he might have to leave his bones
among them. I had branched off the road to take a
beaten-track which wandered on and on, and still
led to no habitation. The day began to die out in
the west. The sun was setting fiery red in a gorge
of the hills. Still I rode on and on, till at last I
reached a spur of the hills tnat looked down upon
a great river. Then I knew where I was. I knew
also that I could travel no more that night, and
the nearest dwelling-place was fully fifteen miles
distant. 1 am a philosopher—you may have
noticed that from my conversation. I dismounted,
hobbledjmy horse, and, and, taking out a bottle
containing a certain beverage which shall be name-
less, I gave myself up to contemplation.
• • •
Slowly the red sun sank. The waters be-
neath me trembled into opalescent hues: the hills
began to gather round them their robes of darkness
as giants of the elder world lying down to sleep and
dreams. Upon their crests the trees stood black
against the sunset, and one blasted gum seemed in
the rising night wind to shake a shrivelled arm of
fell farewell to the departing day. Then crept
over me the old feeling that I felt with the young
triDQS of the earth, toons ago, when we thought
the end of one day was the death of all days, and
when through all the long dark night we watched
against the stars for the mystery of the morning.
Slowly atid slowly the red light faded out.
Far in the wondrous West a sea of still gold flame,
serene and lovely, insphered strange isles of em-
purpled dusk and ran into fretted inlets and shin-
ing havens of Cloudland. Gazing in a waking
dream at this bright vision, the days of my child-
hood came back to me, when I thought the sunset
sky was a sea where through the spirits of the
blest sailed in galleys of gossamer and woven mist
to the Happy Isles.
* * *
The thought of sailing made me look down
at the river, and there, as an embodiment of
my thought, I saw a boat of antique construction,
with her bows stuck in the sand. It seemed to me
strange that I had not noticed her before, and I
became curious to know more of her. So, after a
backward glance to see that my horse was safe, I
walked down to her. Then I found she was not a
boat, but a dug-out. I stepped in to examine
certain hieroglyphics which I noticed carved
astern. When I looked up from my examination,
I was horrified to find that there was no land in
sight, she had drifted out in some inexplicable
way from the shore, and now seemed to be mov-
ing towards a certain point of the compass as if by
her own volition. What the mysterious motive-
power that propelled her was I could not find out
then, nor ever after. But the wonder of the land
vanishing so suddenly was a matter of still greater
surprise and, I may even say, terror to me. Was I
the victim of some fell enchantment ? Had I en-
tered into the region peopled by that Ghostly
Race spoken of fearfully in aboriginal traditions ?
What was to happen to me ? All these questions
I asked myself vainly, as the strange canoe glided
silently on. And then another wonderful thing
came to pass. As suddenly as the shore haa
vanished, so suddenly it became visible again. But
not the shore I had left. The prow of the canoe
was resting on golden sands—not metaphorically
golden, but tangibly and.truly so. I gathered up a \
handful and looked at it. I am a mineralogist and !
something of an assayer as well. The value of that
handful of yellow sand was more than you will
get editing papers for the next twelve months.
Inflamed with curiosity, and, I may add, thirst, I
passed through a belt of palm trees and proceeded
inland. I found myself in a beautiful valley
through which a crystal river ran, singing to its-
self a low sweet tune. The air was faint with per-
fume. Trees such as I had never seen before, grew
ail around me. Some were in full bloom find looked
l gigantic bouquets planted in the velvet
I *ward. Others were laden .with many-coloured
truit that glowed in the sunset like balls of fire or
globes of gold, Birds of Paradise flew like
resplendent meteors through the air, and from
the heart ot the blosoming trees I heard the songs,
unearthly sweet, of other birds I could not see
mingled melodiously with the slumbrous sound
9* , ar ' r °® water-falls. What was this enchanted
land ? I wandered on in a maze of wonder, until I
came to a padlocked gate with one hinge, beside
which was a placard bearing the following legend :-
: THIS IS THE GARDIN OF EADIN: :
: Trespasers will be porsekewted akordin :
: to the strioktist rigger of the Lor. :
\ou may judge of my feelings when I saw this.
I was in a rapture of mingled awe and delight.
Here, thought I, is the ancient home of the human
race T the glorious place forfeited for ever through
the sin of our first parents. Baint, and seer, and
errant knight have sought for it in vain and
perished in the wilderness. It has been reserved
L or “ e ’., with a thrice-fortunate few, to look upon
it with living eyes. So saying, I cast my eyes down
upon the ground, and there saw a row of footmarks
leading from the gate. They seemed as fresh as if
they had been made only that morning. But I
knew they were the footsteps of the father of Man-
kmd (I refer to the particular race that peopesl the
world to-day) whioh had been miraculously pre-
served through the ages since the dark day when
he walked sorrowfully out of the beautiful Garden
with his hoe upon his shoulder. I could also see,
here and there at intervals, traces of where he had
cut up the ground with the hoe in the agony of
his griet. Side by side with these footmarks ran
a row of smaller ones-the feet of our fair but
foolish mother, Eve. I lay down at full length in
one of them, and wept bitterly to think of the
tender beauty of her exposed to the rude winds
of the wilderness. At that moment I freely for-
gavei her for the trouble she had brought upon
er descendants. Afterldrying my eyes, I looked
at the ground again, and noticed that close beside
each of her footprints there was a small hole drilled
Into the soil. What was this, do you think ? It was
some time before I discovered that these holes had
been made by the point of a parasol. How did I
know this? By the impression of the ferule. It
comforted me to think that the tender mother of
Mankind was not compelled to leave her parasol
behind her when she left the Garden. But, judg-
ing by the fact that the footmarks went straight
°d, and that neither ahe nor Adam seemed to have
sat down anywhere near the gate, I came to the
conclusion that they had been obliged to leave the
rest of their luggage behind them. The thought
of this harshness of treatment to our early rela-
tives annoyed me to such an extent that 1 climbed
over the gate and jumped down into the garden,
mu! ance ,_ of the notice posted up on the placard.
The first thing that struck my eye was a tree with
the initials A and E, executed apparently with a
clasp-knife, carved in the bark. Half-way up the
trunk was an inscription painted on a board,
which was nailed to the tree. The inscription was
to this effect:—
• ™^ ISS IS THE TREE OF NOLLTDGE: :
: Whoosoever eats of the Frootof tbissTree :
• Shall shoorly di.
I looked at the fruits growing on the tree. Thev
were baking apples. I had no doubt but those
who ate them would die. Our first parents must
Lave had the constitution of crocodiles to have
survived. Not far from where tlrs tree stood. I
came across a wicker wigwam. This, I said to
myself, is the first seed of Architecture—from this
sprang the white loveliness of Greek, and the dark
but beautiful fantasy of Gothic, wonder-work in
stone! This is the germ of the marvellous Taj
Mahal. After these remarks, I knelt reverently
down and crawled inside. It was the only manner
in which rcould enter, as the door-way was little
more than three feet high. I have since been
struck by the idea that Adam used to walk on all
tours in the fashion of the other animals for some
time after he came into the world, and that he
built the dwelling-place in question before he had
got into the habit of walking erect. When I stood
up inside, the first thing that caught my eye was
a Dutch oven, standing by the hearth that had
been coid for six thousand years. I took the lid
off the oven and found two cold potatoes inside
They were as fresh as if they had been cooked the
day before-early pinks, I think they were—and I
ate them with a grateful heart. The next thing I
discovered was a string of onions, and, after that,
half a pie. Many a man might have been afraid
to grapple with the latter, but not so I. I have
lived in boarding-houses too long to be appalled at
antiquity. On a bracket beside the fire-place I found


Useful Tunic for Digestive Organs.
93 Collins-street East, Melbourne.
Gentlemen,—l have carefully examined the
samples of Bavarian Hop Bitters which you
sent to me. They contain some useful tonics and
stimulants for the digestive organs, and appear to
be quite free from any deleterious ingredients.
Possessing these qualifications, and being palat-
able, with a fine aroma, their use will doubtless be-
come universal. I have already recommended
them to several of nay patients. Wishing you the
,„oce» rou -SSSYf M.D.
The New York Daily Graphic of July
14, 1884, contains illustiations of the Wolfe s
Schnapps establishment at Hamburg.
Rheumatism.—For the oure of this painful
affliction in all its various types and forms, there
has never, to our knowledge, been any medicine
so successful and sure as Bristol s Sarsa-
parilla. Old people of 70 to 80 yi ars of age, who
have been confined to their beds for years with
loints swelled to twice their natural size, limb*
drawn up and distorted, and suffering a continual
agony, have been entirely cured, and restored to
the use of all their limbs permanently.
The Bank is next to the Church ; for the
one cares for the salvation of the soul, and the
other the means by which the soul Is sustained.
The one Is the deposit for our spiritual possessions,
the other the repository of our earthly effects,
Wolfe’s Schnapps oombines both the spiritual
and physical welfare of the patient for whom it
is prescribed. It is at onoe vitalising, preservative,
and remedial. Be sure you obtain Wolfes
Schnapps.
Kissing the Wrong Girl.—lt is dark.
He steals up to the garden gate. “ Mv own sweet I”
“My dearest own! 7 ’ Then the noise of kissing.
“Speak in whispers, dearest; the old man is not
in bed yet.” “ And do you love me .' Do I love
you? I love you with a strength that would
knock Sullivan out in ono round.’ r “ These stolen
meetings are so lovely! Don t you think so r
More kissing. Then a voice from the house,
“Mary! Ma-ry!” “I’m coming, ma'am. There is
a rapturous parting. Then the young man, as he
steals off, soliloquises, “‘Mary 1 I guess I made a
mistake. That’B the servant girl’s name. But it s
my own fault; I ought to have worn my splendid-
fitting £3 3s. suit, made by Bummerfield and Co.,
Merchant Tailors. 235 and 337 Pitt-street, Sydney,
who employ eight high-class cutters, and guaran-
tee a perfect West-end fit. Biggest stock of
woollens in Australia shown by Summertield and
Co. ♦
an earthenware pipe and half a plug of tobacoo,
together with a pack of cards which, on in-
spection, I found to contain six bowers aDd
a double set of aces. As I out up the
tobacoo and filled the pipe of my ancestor, I wept
again to think in what a hurry he must have gone
away when he left these things behind him. But
at the same time I was rather annoyed to think
that he could not even play solitaire without
cheating. There must bo something wrong with
the nature of a man who will cheat himself—at
cards, anyhow. There was nothing more worth
noticing in the place, except a pewter with “Adam
his Jug ” scratched on the bottom, and an old
aocordeon with half the keys gone. Our revered
ancestor had certainly hit upon some ways of
amusing himself, but it must have been rather
hard on the animals. The furniture was of a cheap
and ricketty description, and had evidently been
obtained on time-payment. I was surprised to find
that there was no piano on the premises. But,
perhaps, the deficiency was made up by a book of
American Humour, which I discovered on a shelf.
I opened it, and once more laughed heartily over
the Mule and the Bad Boy and the orooked flve-
dollar bill and the man at the oorner grooery.
Then I crept out again into the air and turned my
back for ever upon the House of my talented but
unfortunate Forefather.
* * *
My adventures were only beginning.
Hardly had I got out of sight of the villa in ques-
tion when I came across an Immense speckled
snake coiled up under a tree, I have an aversion
to snakes, and would have passed this one, only
he stopped me and asked what year it was. I told
him. He seemed muoh agitated. “ Only two
thousand more,” he murmured. “ Two thousand
more what ?” I enquired. “ Years,” he replied.
Then, seeing that I looked confused—the waving
of his seven heads dazed me somewhat—he said:
“ You are the descendant of a person who once
did me a great injury. But I bear you no malice.
I am the old original Serpent. For six thousand
years I have been orawllng on the ground in this
debasing fashion through the calumny of your
Ancestor. Did I induce him to eat of the fruit of
that tree ? I would not have it on my conscience
to have induecd a mongoose to do so. No; but he
meanly tried to screen himself by putting the
blame on me. 1 But, only two thousand years more,
and then ” “ And then ?” I said. “ And then,
sir,” he replied with dignity, “I shall re-assume
my proper place as the head of oreated things, and
man will take his proper place at the other end.”
“ How do you know this ?” I inquired with some
asperity. “ I have received a revelation,” he said,
with quiet scorn—“ the turn of the dumb animals
you despise will come, and your race will have had
Its day. Your ruling classes are in dread of a rising
of the classes below them, but they little dream
of the insurrection that is preparing for them in
that lower order of silent life which they have
tyrannised over—slain or kept in slavery—all these
weary ages. I am the old original Serpent,’ he
concluded, suddenly, “ and I know all things.
You can ask me what you like, and I will answer.”
“ Have you any recollections of Adam ?” I in-
quired, taking out my note-book. “ I am the
party to apply to,” he answered ; “ Adam used to
wear 'Wellington boots and a curly-brimmed
hat of the old style. He was very fond
of going to circuses, and had a great desire
to move in high sooiety, but only wombats
and paddymelons would associate with him.”
“ Then he was not popular ?” I said in a
disappointed tone. “He was not,” replied the
Serpent, with decision. “ Anything more ? ” “ No
more.” “ You will find an animal republic a little
further on,” said the Serpent as I was going—” in
this garden the animals are privileged. Their fel-
lows in the outer world have to wait two thousand
years for emancipation, but these are emancipated
already. If you happen to meet with any mem-
bers of the Fourth Estate when you go baok re-
member me to them.” With these words he burled
his head in his coils again and went to sleep.
• • •
It was even as he had said. After proceed-
ing about half a mile from where I had left him, I
came upon a group of beehive-shaped houses,
from one of which the smoke was rising in blue
volumes. There was an odour of cooked food in
the air. I quickened my steps, and was about to
walk inside the largeet of these ourious buildings,
when I was brought to a stand-still. Before the hut,
armed with a matchlock fully primed, paced
with a serious countenance and a majestio stride
a Paddymelon. I was immediately challenged.
" The pass-word! ” cried this grotesque sentry.
Here he made a show of gravely lighting a matoh
from a box of lucifers, whioh he carried in the
tail-pocket of a very faded marine jacket, and, after
applying the match to about a quarter of a pound of
powder pacaed in the pan of his weapon, brought
the latter to his shoulder, and covered me. Doni t
shoot!” I cried, in terror-” don t shcot, and 111
never drink any more!" He seemed affected by
my appeal; and, seeing this, I gathered courage
and said-reaching down, as I thought, to theavel
of his comprehension—“ Got ’em flour?—got em
’bacoa—you got ’em rum ? ” “ We thought here,
said the sentry, with grave disdain, that all the
blacks had been exterminated.”
* • *
“Hold!” he oried, as I endeavoured onoe
more to enter the hut; “move a step, and doom
awaits you I” I held. When his wrath had sub-
sided somewhat, I humbly asked him for a sand-
wich. He mused a moment, and then said, *1
will see what can be done.” He knocked
fully at the door of the hut, entered, and came out
again in a short time accompanied by an Emu in a
blue satin skirt and a pair of spectacles. She had
a Latin Delectus slung around her neck in a blue
satohel. ” You are an intruder within the pre-
cincts of this domain,” saidlthis haughty creature,
with an academic frown. Here she drew a Pocket-
handkerchief from the pocket of her skirt, and
wiped her spectacles in a manner which betokened
irritation. “ May I ask, madam.” said I, ” to whom
I have the honour to speak?” She drew a horn
snuff-box out of another pocket, took about a
tablespoonful of snuff, and then replied, sharply,
“I am the Minister for Education.” As she said
this she, looked at me suspiciously, as I thought,
and, making a sign to toe sentry, once more that
warrior lit his matoh and again brought his weapon
into a position convenient for cold-blooded mur-
der. ,r Spare me!” I howled, in a second fit of ter-
ror* 44 spare me for a*little while —at least, feed me
first and kill me afterwards.” The Minister for
Education hesitated a moment, and then said:
“ Your request seems to be reasonable, but there
are no provisions in my department for dealing
with it.” At the word ” provisions” I pricked up
mv ears. ” I must,” continued the official, in a
grave tone, “ first consult the President.” * Is he
far away ?” I inquired faintly. He is within the
palace,” said the Minister, pointing to the hut
from which she had just come out. . Jhß - d
said, diffidently.” ” The Palace,” said the great
official, sternly. With that she stalked inside,
leaving the sentry still glaring. It was a desperate
moment. Was I to perish in the pride of my in-
tellect at the hands of a Paddymelon ? The
thought was fearful. Unarmed and alone-like the
loaves of bread and the fishes, what was T amongst
so many ? Five minutes of eternities passed and still
I crouched in hideous uncertainty under the glare
of the ever-perambulating sentry. At the end of
that time my suspense was terminated. The door
of the Palace was opened suddenly by a Native
Cat, and the Minister of Education came forth, ac-
companied by an elderly Wombat of sedate ap-
pearance. There was a certain majesty in the
manner, and dignity in the carriage of the latter,
which proclaimed him at once as one born to rule.
If anything, however, militated against the state-
liness of his appearance it was the fact that, ignor-
ing, so to speak, the superior society by which he
was surrounded, he was puffing vigorously at a
mud pipe, and occasionally expectorating through
his teeth. Behind him marched a file of paddy-
melons, armed to the gums, and presenting a ter-
rible array. As I Baw them, at a sign from the
majestic Wombat, form a ring round me, my heart
sank within me. “Ho! hoi’ cried the Wombat,
with a sinister smile, “ what is this we have with-
in our realms ?” “ It is a man, your Excellency,
whispered the Emu in his ear. How do
you kno w that ?' ’ said the Wombat, in a
tone of suspicion. “ From rumours regarding
that strange race that have been wafted across the
water from time to time, I judge him to be 10,
replied the Emu, respectfully. “ You have read it
In a book I” exclaimed the wombat, with a terrible
glanoe. “Meray, your Excellency." cried the
Emu, falling: on her knees and soiling her blue
satin petticoat; “I have only got as far as words
of two syllables!" “ Call the Minister for Justioe,’
said the Wombat, without heeding the entreaties
of the Emu. A paddymelon obeyed the order,
and, In a few minutes, an obese Iguana, with a
grey wig on his head and a bandage over one eye,
waddlea up to the President. I then learnt that
the Wombat was President of this Republic.
“There is a portfolio to spare,” said the latter;
“we had better give it to the Dingo. The Emu is
getting too oultured for us. It has come to some-
thing when a Minister for Eduoation knows
how to read!" with these scornful words he
turned his heel fcpnn the unfortunate Emu,
and, after another look at me, called for the
Professor of Natural History. The Paddymelon
started off at the word, and returned in a few
minutes wheeling in a perambulator a Platypus of
profound appearance, who, I noticed, had one
glass eye whioh he was perpetually pushing into
its place with his foot. “ What do you call this ?
said the Wombat, pointing at me. That" replied
the Platypus adjusting his glass eye “is a vivipar-
ous mammal." ‘‘And what did you mean by the
figure you constructed out of those bonos that we
found on the beach ?" continued the President in
a severe tone, “ you said they were the bones of a
man, and you fixed them up with one leg and one
arm in the air, and the other arm and leg on the
ground, and explained that man progressed over
the ground whirling in the manner of a wheel—l
want to know what you meant by that I” The poor
Platypus began to tremble, and in his confusion
dropped his glass eye, which was instantly
swallowed by the Emu, who had been* standing
sullenly in the back-ground up till this time. Tak-
ing no notice ofjthe occurrence the Wombat, point-
ing scornfully at me, continued angrily, “ And
what do you mean by saying that we civilised and
enlightened animals are descended from that
wretohed creature?” Here there was a-sub-
dued murmur in the audience, and a Paddymelon
came behind me and viciously struok me on the
back of the head with his matchlook. I discovered
afterwards that the savants of the Republic were
divided into two parties—the orthodox party
which held that animals had been animals from
the beginning, and a revolutionary minority
whioh professed to have proved that they had
sprung from man by a process of evolution. The
latter party was held in universal abhorrence by
the animal publio, and dared not go through the
streets without a guard. Speaking of this, I
learnt afterwards that the last subject of discus-
sion among the scientists was “ As to the Possibi-
lity of Man possessing a Soul "—and that the deci-
sion was unanimously in the negative,
• * *
All this time I was anxiously- waiting to
learn my fate from the lips of the President. He
looked at me contemplatively for some time,
puffing his alluvial pipe, and then,, knocking the
ashes out on the head of tho Platyipus, said: “He
must die. No other man has ovor set foot on
these shores since the First Man was oast forth
from them. But feed him flrßt." I have never
been able to remember clearly what occurred
afterwards. When I think of it, I h ave a confused
vision of a river of rum into whioh I was thrown
by a band of danoing demons, who looked some-
times like paddymelons and sometimes like in-
furiated Iguanas, and then of hearing the Platy-
pus say to me, “Mean as Is your appearance, we
evolved from you. I don’t forget it. I will save
your life. But you must first swear that you will
never reveal the secret of this island when you
return to your own world. It is visible on Christ-
mas Day alone, and then only to the olairvoyant
few. Yet you must swear, for; If the secret were
known, this fact would not save it from the build-
ing societies.” I suppose I must have sworn. The
next thing I remember was hearing the sound of
water, and suddenly finding myself on the shore
from which I had started in the mysterious canoe.
Looking back, I saw the broad river gleaming in
the sunrise, and then I knew that I must have
been on the magic island all night. But I could
see no trace of the island. It nad vanished ut-
terly. But I knew it was there, and hidden from
all eyes till the next Christmas Day.
* * *
“Five minutes past eleven, gentlemen,”
said the landlord, putting his head in at the door.
And the Doctor rose up and riooohetted home by
the light of the moon.
* * *
“Most extraordinary man, the Doctor,”
said I to the Police Sergeant, a day or two after.
And then I told him tne story the Doctor had told
me. lie listened to me with a ourious twinkle in
his eye. “ What," I faltered. “ you don’t mean
that— —?” “Oh, no," he replied, “but I remem-
ber the time. We had him in the lock-up fora
week that Christmas. He had them very bad."
* * *
This is the end of the Laburnum Silk
Story. If it will not buy the dress in question, the
angel of my household will have to go about in a
garment or galvanised iron. And now I wish all
of you who have read this, and survived, a Merry
Christmas. For my own part, I intend to pass
mine quietly in a vault with some genial ghosts of
my acquaintance. [A spirit vault, probably.—
Ed. B.i
Hon. J. B. Patterson, of Victoria, who is
an observant Radical, and has been travelling
lately, says that the generally accepted idea on the
Continent as to the state of English politics is
quite correct. It is that the people of England
are, even under a semi-ltadioal Ministry, governed
by a mere clique; and that the masses are so poor,
so dense in intellect, and so politically ignorant,
that at present they don’t care very much whether
they are governed by the Tories or oy the Ger-
mans,—who have already partially annexed
England.
“The Spirit of the Press” is the title the
Distress gives to a pictorial heading representing
a winged printing machine tearing round after
the style of those quadruple nightmare concerns
Ezekiel the prophet used to see whenever he had
been out with the boys, and “got ’em” badly.
For once in his wild career, we think the only
O'Connor is whistling up the wrong tube. The
spirit of the Press is generally, and more truly, re-
presented by a square bottle holding about a quart
of perfumed water, warranted to wear a hole
through a three-inch pine board.
When Ismail beoame Khedive, in 1862, the
Egyptian National Debt was £3,000,000. In sixteen
years he increased this to £95,000,000, and some
people try to make out that only about 50 per
cent, of this fell into the National Treasury.
Ismail’s landed estates in 1863 only amounted to
16,000 acres, whioh, however, had grown in 1878 to
ovor 1,000,000 acres of the finest soil in Egypt.
8o says the London D.T., whioh adds that it has
the very best authority for stating that a sum
amounting to over £30,000,000 (twenty millions
sterling) has been traced as having been paid in
to his account at various Continental banks, nota-
bly in Holland and Belgium, between the years
1874 and 1879, when he abdicated. As yet no steps
have been taken to trace the money he may have
invested in England during that period.
The French Ministerial journal, the Paris,
announces that it has had the honour of being for-
bidden access to Alsaoe-Lorraine, owing to certain
remarks respecting forthcoming Reiohstag elec-
tions. The editor proceeds to attack the German
Government, and to declare that each of the vic-
tories gained by the French candidates cancels the
effects of violent conquest. The editor concludes
thus:—“ Watch over the schools, censure the
Press, ye Germans. Enter houses and cottages
and force into the ranks of your army children
who, since they were live years of age, have seen
you ruling their country. It will be of no avail.
To each recruit whom you take, and whom, whip
in hand, you bid love and serve Germany and the
Emperor, the venerable Dollfus will answer, Con-
scrit ou proscrit, love Franoe and hope! ”
The town of Crief in Sootland is supplied
with pure water from Loch Turret, and one of the
Presbyterian churches in that place has lately had
a pipe laid on with the requisite machinery to blow
the organ by water, instead of lung, power. There-
upon up rose a prophet in the person of John
ftPCullooh, shoemaker and local bard, who thus
pricks the popular Innovation with his poetic
brad-awl:—
“ Now that machinery works our praise,
Is it too rash to say
IThe parson a machine will have
To preaoh for him and pray ?
“ A belt of parohment, written o’er
And duly set in motion
Around revolving oylinders,
Would greatly aid devotion.”
Says a recent Morning Muffin- wrapper :
“We learn that Mr E. P. Ramsay, curator of the
Australian Museum, has been created by his
Majesty King Humbert a knight of the Crown of
Italy. The only other knights of the order in New
South WaIFS are Sir Henry Parkes. Mr. Wise, of
the Immigration Department, and Mr. J. M. Marsh,
S.M.” This looks as if Granny’s informant had
recently slept in the same bed as an Evenooze re-
Eorter, for signor A. Tornaghi, of this city, was
onoured with the title of Cavaliere della Corona
d’ltalia fully five years ago. Mr. Ramsay, we
believe, reoently presented the Museum at Rome
with a clutch of cat-fish kittens, and the femur of
an animal supposed to be the bunyip—hence Um-
berto’s grateful recognition of his favours. Next
to being a night policeman, we don’t know of any-
thing we would rather bo than a Cavaliere della
Corona d’Jtalia. Pass the flowing Falernian bowl
—Evviva!
Something like a vote of censure on the
townspeople of Menindie has recently been passed
by the authorities of the Inspector-General of
Police’s Department here; and, from what we can
learn of the trouble, this censure is well deserved.
It appears that a young farmer having been
drowned in the Darling, near Menindie, the local
police applied to the Sydney office for a boat to be
used in cases of emergency, and, after waiting
the usual century or so, a reply was received, say-
ing no boat col Id be supplied, the authorities
being of opinion that deaths “ from drowning are
not sufficiently numerous about Menindie to war-
rant such an outlay.” This is sad. Menindie is about
the only town on the Darling that cannot raise a
boat, and the simple reason of this aquatic poverty
is because the inhabitants take so little interest in
the status of the place that they will not drown
themselves in sufficient numbers to justify the
Government making them the present of a dingy.
Deaths from hanging, shooting, mistaking a neigh-
bour’s wife, and allowing the little finger to sail
above the thumb as the festive bowl goes round,
are common enough up Menindie way; but even
Rookwood can show a better record when it comes
to a case of death by drowning. Signs of patriot-
ism are, however, breaking out at last, and, we
believe, the member for the district lias been
instructed to ask how many deaths by immersion
in aqua pura are necessary to justify a boat being
provided, and whether the deaths of blackfellows,
book-hawkers, school-attendance inspectors, and
insurance agents will be counted the same as those
of decent white men ; because if these are rec-
koned, the Menindians are of opinion that they will
soon be able to show sufficient reasons for applying
for a boat as big as an Orient liner.
At Sunrise.
Uprose the sun upon a chill grey morn,
And down the dim lands rolled
His serried rays upon the ripening corn—
Red gold upon the gold.
Bright-faoed was he, as victor in the breaoh
Of some proud oity won,
Who holds on high, above the foeman’s reach,
A golden gonfalon.
The pale moon watohing for that wondrous light—
As for the light of graoe
A dying saint—went down Into the night
With glory on her face,
80, when the last sad hour has come for me,
Ere the dim path be trod,
May I, while darkness closes round me, see
The glory of my God.
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Blood Poisoning 17 Years Ago.
I, Isaac 8. McDonald, formerly of Wlndotn,
Maine, now of 3 '0 Lake-street. Chicago, 111., herein
describe my case for the benefit of those simi-
larly afHicted. I had a very bad running sore on
my ankle, caused originally by blood poisoning
17 years ago. I had tried various doctors, of van
ous schools, from Maine to Chicago, without get-
ting the slightest benefit. Last February I was
induced to try your Cwticura Remedies. After
taking five bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, and
using two boxes of Cuticura, and two cakes cf
Cuticura Soap, I am to-day a well man, The
sore is entirely healed up, the skin sound and
hard. No itching or any trouble. My cure has
been the means of selling large quantities of your
remedies, as my case is known.
WILLIAM EWART GLADSTONE.
Disraeli was a more showy and rapid man. Bis-
marck has the reputation of being deeper and
more far-seeing ; but Gladstone has the European
reputation of being the man who can hold himself
uncommitted to anything until he is ready, and
then oome with orushing force on his opponents.
His campaign in 1878 was characteristic of the man.
He “went for” the head quarters of the enemy
straight away, and having routed them in Mid-
lothian, returned south, carrying everything be-
fore him. He seems on a fair way to repeat the
performance in the present campaign. He is a
wonder of vitality. Fancy a man of 75 holding
all the cares of a vast empire, and discharging
them with a vigour never beaten by his best
achievements of 30 years ago. The grand secret
of so long a life of success is that he has ever
taken care of his health. This should be noted by
people who are now neglecting the symptoms of
what may lead to permanent martyrdom, to neu-
ralgia and rheumatism. St. Jaoobs Oil costs little,
and may be obtained everywhere. Why then run
tho risk of having these shooting pains become
chronio when the application of so easily accessible
a remedy is proved preventive ?
A GIANT SHIP.
The Cunard Co. has just launched a monster
ship, the Umbria, of 8000 tons, and with steam
power up to 13,000 horse. Notwithstanding the
croakers who pointed to the Great Eastern failure,
and who said that she would prove an equal fail-
ure, a trial trip has proved her the grandest vessel
the world has ever seen, having steamed without
difficulty or danger up to 3i miles an hour. The
company and the engineers have covered them-
selves with glory, and their magnificent success
will be followed up now by other companies, who
will even excel the Umbria. It is as certain as that
the sun shines that within a few years the distance
between Australia and England will be covered in
30 days at the outside. We can conceive of no
more magnificent sight than that of the great
10,000-ton monsters of the future cleaving their
way over the ocean under sail and steam at the
rate of 30 miles an hour. This the Cunard Co. will
certainly bring about within a few years. Speak-
ing of that line, it may not be generally known
that such a thing as a fatal accident has never
been known aboard one of their ships. In case 0{
sprains or bruises, there is always an ample supply
of St. Jacobs Oil aboard, but, beyond that, the
health and well-being of the passengers is left to
the earn of tho officers and good diet.
NEW GUINEA EXPLORATION.
It is always a tempting thing to adventurous
spirits to set out and explore new lands. The vast
island of New Guinea is the El Dorado of our rest-
less spirits ; but hitherto all attempts to cross the
island have been fruitless, onjaceount of the weak-
ness and inexperience of the explorers, and the
hostility of the natives. A Mr. Kerry has reoonlly
been giving us some facts and fancies of a tour, in
which he asserts they found 13 great rivers, rang-
ing from three-quartors to a mile wide, and also
some splendid specimens of gold. He has shown
some of the gold, and that of itself is sure to draw
further investigation. But it appears the party
made very free with their guns. This is the fatal
mistake of a small party. They are afraid, and
the natives know it. What is required is a party
large enough, and sufficiently equipped with pro-
visions, ammunition (and St/Jaoobs Oil, in case of
neuralgia or rheumatism caught from exposure),
and moans of keeping up a dear track of communi-
cation from behind. Whether such a party can bo
got together by private enterprise remains to be
seen. One thing is certain, however. Whatever
moans are adopted to cross the island, a decided
step should be taken to prevent this indiscriminate
shooting down of men who have an undoubted
right to their own land.
OCEAN RACES.
There is no grander speotacle in the world thltn
that of a great ship cleaving her traokless way
across the tumbling waves. By the application of
steam we have now been able to attain a rate of
speed undreamt of in old times; and, just as we
admire first the great racehorse for his speed, and
then join in the maddening excitement of a great
race, so now the same spirit has been carried into
ocean racing. Enormous vessels, carrying hun-
dreds of passengers and untold wealth, go tearing
across broad oceans, striving to outstrip each other
by a few hours in a raoe of thousands of miles.
The spectacle is certainly grand; but how about
the safety of the people? It’s all very well for
ship-owners to pocket their profits; but isn’t it a
bit too much when the lives of hundreds depend
upon the race? What is required is not only speed,
but speed with safety. It is quite possible, for
instance in the case of a painful disorder, to obtain
immediate relief by injections under the skin, or
by taking opium or some preparation of it. But
at what a cost 1 Better a thousand times to follow
the course of nature, and use a remedy like
St. Jacobs Oil, which not only relieves the pain,
but goes straight to the cause of the ailment and
effects a permanent cure.
THE HERO OF KHARTOUM.
All the world wondered at the hero, who, siogle-
handed, set himself the task of rolling back the
rebel hordes of El Mahdi. and saving Khartoum to
the Khedive and to civilisation. The question of
his success —nay, of his life, yet hangs tremulous
in the balance, and Christendom anxiously, tear-
fully, sorrowfully awaits glad tidings of great joy
of this her modern crusader and nineteenth cen-
tury Bayard, General Gordon. Strange that, al-
though a soldier from his youth, a skilful strate-
gist, an engineer of high repute, an able artillerist,
and a great tactician, he never carries arms with
him to battle. No sword, no revolver for him ;he
bears a charmed life, and carries but a silver-
mounted walking-stick, a Bible, and last, but not
least, a phial of St. Jacobs Oil, with which to
stanch tbe wounds and assuage the bitter pangs
caused by gunshot wounds on Afric’s sunny lands.
TAWHAIO—THE KING.
Tawhaio’s foot is on his native heath again, and
his tarnished patent-leather understandings, fresh
from tbe pavement of Bond-street, now crush the
fern of his ancestral domainp. At a huge native
meeting held recently at Whatiwhatiboe, the King
was rapturously received by the assembled thou-
sands, who Hocked from every part of New Zea-
land to behold their champion Home Rule advo-
cate and father of bis people (father of a good
many of them, too.) Tbe aged monarob was much
affected at the heartiness with which he was
greeted. He wore the primitive native court cos-
tume of Maoriland, consisting of cooked hat—pre-
sented to him by Lord Derby; a paper collar, a
gift from the Bishop of Oxford; spurs, a token of
esteem pressed upon hirn at parting by the Lord
Mayor, and an eye glass, the gift of the proprietor
of St. Jacobs Oil, which medicine is a never-fajlin;
, eource of relief for the royal rheumatics.


mthmy Huini«sns,
Palace Emporium,
/ /
OUL ~Z~.
UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS.
IDERS.
NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION.
Of Everything Delightful, Beautiful, and Charming, for
THE CHRISTMAS SEASON
Everything that is considered suitable or appropriate in any way for
Christmas Presents and New Year’s Gifts
i
Is represented at
THE
After a fashion that defies comparison, disarms criticism, and renders competition utterly futile,
THE NEW JEWELLERY CASE,
In itself a work of considerable beauty, is filled with everything that can delight and charm the eye. ]
THE WALTHAM WATCHES THE WALTHAM WATCHES
Are also a great feature. They are The Genuine Waltham Watches, known, appreciated, and praised all over the world, and
the prices are Twenty-eive per Cent. Under those charged by other Houses for the same articles.
THE DOLLS ! THE TOYS ! ! THE BOOKS !! !
Are three things which always hold their own at Christmastide; and on this particular Christmas, and as represented at
They are pretty well sure of a Eront Seat.
The Dolls are Most Beautiful. The Toys are Truly Diverting. The Books are of the Bight Sort.
The Departments devoted to
Furniture , Bedsteads, and Carpets
Have been suitably sorted up for the Christmas Trade, everything being marked at Specially Low Prices.
In connection with this Branch, Estimates will he given for Burnishing Houses Throughout, and it is positively certain that the
quotations in this direction will leave a Smaller Bill to Pay than the Purchaser ever expected.
THE LATEST FASHIONS OF THE DAY are promptly and adequately exhibited at The Palace Emporium, Haymarket,
for there is nothing worthy of notice, either in London, Paris, or Berlin, that is not shipped to us by the Mail Steamer sailing next
after its production, thus enabling us to show Everything Charming and Everything Beautiful at the earliest possible moment.
OUB ONLY ADDBESS—
Anthony Hordern and Sons, Falaco Emporium, Haymarket, only.
(NEAR THE RAILWAY STATION.)


Williams’ Yeast Powder makes light and
wholesome bread, tea oakea, and pastry.*
Family Wines and Spirits, of reliable
duality, may be purchased from Hockingb and
Co., 143, Pitt-street.*
Kruse’s Insecticide is invaluable to
travellers and housekeepers; It destroys all
noxious insects. Tins, Is.*
Ball Room Specialities.—Sale and Dare,
decorators. Ball-rooms tastefully decorated with
flaw and floral decorations. Artistic effects skil-
fully arranged ; peculiar brilliance in display
consummated. 00* Hunter-street, Sydney.*,
The Diamond Dyes are the best dyes ever
made. Dresses, Coats, Scarfs, lloods, Yarn, Stook-
ings, Carpet Bags Ribbons, Feathers, or any fabrio
or fanoy artiole, easily and perfectly ooloured to
any shade. Black, Brown, Green, Blue, Seal
Brown, 30 Olive Green, and 30 other best oolours.
warranted Fast and Durable. Eaoh package will
oolour one to four lbs. of goods. If you have
never used Dyes, try these onoe. You will be
delighted. Sold by druggists and dealers at 6d.
per package. Send 2d. stamp to Box 181, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and you will receive a Sample Card of
Colours, &e„ &0., by return post.*
Mark Twain having been asked to sub-
scribe something towards the support of an infant
asylum, offered to contribute two or three children
to the enterprise, provided they were all clothed
by Summerfleld and Co., the great juvenile out-
fitters, 235 and 237, Pitt-street, who have a stock of
over 5000 boys’ suits to select from, all of which
are manufactured under the supervision of their
London manager, and stamped with their brand.
Special arrangements for the Christmas holidays,
including 600 picnic bolland prince suits at 2s. lid.,
and 500 linen drill man-o’-war suits, with collar
and badge, at ss. lid.; strong school suits from
Bliss’ West of England tweeds, at Bs. lid. and 10s.
od.; long trouser suits, in all sizes, at 215., 255., 275.
od.: pure worsted diagonals, 30a.; Eton suits, 455.
Ladies resident in the country are respectfully re-
quested to write for our New World of Fashion,
containing full price-list and the newest styles,
sent post free. Only Sydney address—Summerfleld
and C 0.7 the great juvenile outfitters, 235 and 237,
1 Pitt-street.*
COMPAGNONI CATERING CO. (Limited).
The Leading: and Oldest Catering Establishment in N.B.W. Caterers to the A.J.C., &c„ Ao.
THE Catering and Sole Management undertaken for Balls, Weddings, Banquets, Banners, Luncheons
and all kinds of demonstrations.
~ The DINING and REFRESHMENT SALOONS, both for Ladies and Gontlemen, are tho finest in
for Dinner-parties up-stairs.
PRI\ ATE BAR AND SMOKING LOUNGE. Beef Tea daily, 11 a.m. Coffee in tho Bar until II p.m.
E. D. TOLLEMACHE, Licensee and General Manager.
Compagnonl Catering Company, Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN PHOTO.-ENGRAVING GO.,
24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL CLASSES OF ILLUSTRATIONS UNDERTAKEN.
Fac-slmlles of Handwriting for Circulars. Music Plates prepared.
THIS COMPANY having specially engaged a number of first-class exports from London, New
Y ork, and San Francisco, in addition to a staff locally trained, is now in a position
TO UNDERTAKE WORK IN ANY QUANTITY, AND OF QUALITY NOT SURPASSED P
ANY ESTABLISHMENT IN THE WORLD.
13?“ Book of Specimens Sent Post Free on Application
J)1 PRofo /rtcjracing
\j XL cuf - er\grra\?eb Ojp ©K/pe
af Sy jsßofo-ct?emicat: meary.
9-C \f mour\fec| fypc arrcL
car? Sc Jc tl i a o
cmcj prupfed. -prom, orj any ordi—
nary |9 ri nti* ncj prey . appear--
apce if* \?ery eiosefy
a cooob cuL aac| y inter?fc>
ede fo a crreaf* exte
sa'pcryecle lo a cyeal exiey, ■—
tßaf <sPoco ancj crrLctß-od-
oj? encjravu ncj . \/c cap o'ppcr
cjrreaf* i ncjuceiruent/' to afP coßo
lyc cut/ *?or Price
/> Carafo guef or
parpo/c. Qef our
esTimatc/ cmcj fry
t*'" RESPONSIBLE AGENTS WANTED IN EVERY CITY IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND.
Annual income exceed* One Million.
Li'’htntrur and Oaa TSxnlnal >n f) * P^H.
IATHURSTST
HEY WILL LOOK BETTER THAN NE
ss
HAVE YOUR OLD
• —i <gm
REPLATED BY, R.HELYER
PRICESREOU
hey will wear better than new
WILL MAKE YOUR HENS LAY.
o.
%
N Q
J
coir* > r+Ait
MA "Ml rtrffU
COST? But 5*
,m 18.
ro* * \
PlOirj of l 2 fOVTL}
sn a tees
fot*
wm
*\ mm i*r
o*c*tA/r& i)
ifiAttr ah p/ir/\iii
com>no*s ro A)mmi
rtmi 10/ *e*Lrnr
to/fo/no# Poui
rut /*otr / > AOS/TAe/-£
sroc/j atf rtrm.
S£ci/*iO by p*rg*r
WILL MAKE YOUR HENS LAY.
w/rcr
T URT E ¥A RT, Sole FVoprietor.
successor TV CMA* ft Alien t, cr
216 State Street
HARTFORD.CMJ.S.
Prlce-2oz. packets, 4s. Gd. per doz.; single pounds, *sj 2V6lbs., 45.; 61b. boxes, Bs.;
101 b. boxes, 125.; 251 b. kegs, 275. Gd.
Liberal discount allowed to the trade. To be had from all Grocers, Chemists, Seed and Agricultural
Stores, and
EUGENE KLOTZ & CO., 32 Bridge-st., Sydney,
J. C. GENDERS & CO., Adelaide, S.A.
80LE
AGENTS.
A PEARL IN A SHOE.
was Christmas
Eve, the night was
deadly cold; the
snow was falling
thick and fast;
and, in front of
the fire-place of a
dining-room in a
mansion of the
Champs in
Paris, one might
have seen on the
hearth-rug, ranged
in a row like sol-
diers at parade—
the largest to the
right, the smallest
to the left—five
shiny, brightly polished children’s shoes.
They had been made smart for this Christmas
Eve; they had new silk laoes, and their new-plated
elects shone like little rings of gold.
One would have thought they wore made of
black varnished wood. A mouse might have ad-
mired herself in them, and the singing crickets
sunk in the thiok fur with whioh they were lined.
They were all waiting for the coming of little
Noel.
But yonder, next to a smoky fire-brand, sad and
lonely, stood a little Shoe that seemed ashamed to
join its elegant brothers.
It belongs to the youngest child of the house—tho
youngest—and the least loved. Why ? Was it be-
oauße he came into the world without being ex-
pected or wished for, or bocausehe was born weak
and delicate ? No one knew; but he was not loved
in this blissful, happy home—poor little forlorn
child, who had so muoh need of love and affection*
Look 1 how sorrowful this poor little shoe seems to
be, under the chimney-pieoe. By the side of its
brothers, it looks like a stranger and a pariah.
See, what a wretohed and forlorn appearance it
has. The dußty heel is all on one side, like the in-
clined tower at Pisa; the coarse lace is broken; the
inside sole is wrinkled like the face of an old man,
and the toes full of eyes that look pitifully in the
empty fire-place. Poor little shoe 1 it has lost its
nails as one loses his teeth; the old leather of its
tops has lost its primitive colour, like one’s hair
through age and sorrow. It is so small and old
that a mouse who is running amongst the ashes
bites its leather without fear or pity. It is so old-
fashioned, so worn out, that one would think it
had travelled round the world. No, it is only that
when it came out of the cradle it had to trample
the roughest and hardest road of this world of
woe. It is nothing now but the old worn-out
slipper of a little ohild. Still he, too, is waiting fo r
the ooming of little Noel.
Little Noel was ooming—he came, surrounded by
a cloud of bright sparks and the sweet musio of
the wintry wind. He flies round the hearth; places
himself, like a white dove, on the marble-top of
the chimney-piece ; shakes his luminous wings,
and lets fall a shower of marvellous toys and
delioious sweetmeats inside the five aristocratio-
looking shoes on the warm hearth-rug. Then he
again takes his flight. But the cry of a orioket
makes him turn round. He stops, looks down, and
by the smoky fire-brand he sees tho forlorn little
shoe that appears to look up to him with a sup-
plicating air.
Dear little Noel feels his heart melt within his
breast; he hangs his little golden head sadly down;
he had never seen in all his travels a shoe look
more wretched and more unhappy.
But, alas I he has nothing left. Toys and sweet-
meats, he has given them all away to the last one.
Day-break is close at hand-his earthly voyage is
nearly over —and he must go baok to his celestial
home till next year. And while his happy brothers
can hardly bear the weight of their treasures, the
lonely little Shoe is waiting still.
Little Noel is greatly grieved. Once more he
takes his flight towards Heaven; but before he
goes, he looks back, and lets a warm, precious tear
fall on the unhappy child’s slipper.
The night was deadly cold, the snow was falling
thick and fast: the tear was crystallised by the icy
breath of the northerly wind—and in the morning,
at peep of day, the lonely, forsaken little child
found a beautiful pearl in his little shoe.
The Pioneer (Allahabad) publishes the
following native petition, the authenticity ef
which is vouched for by a trustworthy cor-
respondent Respectfully showeth-That your
honour’s servant is poor man in agricultural be-
haviour, and much depends on season for the staff
of life, therefore he prays that you will favour
upon him, and take him into your saintly service,
that he may have some permanently labour for
the support of his soul and his family; wherefore
he falls upon his family’s bended knees, and im-
plores to you of this merciful consideration to a
demnable miserable, like your honour’s unfortun-
ate petitioner. That your lordship’s honour’s ser-
vant was too much poorly during the last rains,
and was resuscitated by whioh medioines whioh
made magnificent exoavations in the coffers of
your honourable servant, whose means are cir-
cumcised by his large family, consisting of five
female women and three masculine, the last of
which are still taking milk from mother’s chest,
and are damnably noiseful through pulmonary
catastrophe in their interior abdomen.”
Looking over some recent home exchanges
we find that a party who sorrows in the name of
Nathaniel Bug has made application for legal
leave to change his offensive moniker to that of
the more refined and aristocratic one of Haroourt.
The Swan of Avon was evidently on the moult
when he cackled that there was nothing in a name,
for every day we find a few men and quite a crowd
of women so dissatisfied with their proper patro-
nymics, that they’d cheerfully swap them even for
the name of Ananias. Some persons change their
names out of pure cussedness, and some because
they have nothing else to change. And touching
this business, we know a certain family ourselves
who really rejoice in the venerable patronymic of
Levi, but who, being distantly related to old Cen-
tury Montefiore, have forcibly appropriated his
surname by tacking it on to their own, which has
now dwindled to noching but the L. This is rough
on the old faith, for the tribe of Levi was the most
honoured among the chosen people, when that of
Montefiore wasn’t even dreamt of. And before we
forget it, led us add that there are only two gentle-
men in Sydney who are legally entitled to the
name of Montefiore.
The recent Boer deputation to England
from South Africa received £B3OO for expenses.
Mr. Kruger and his colleagues have produced a
statement of expenditure of £4169 Bs. al-
though they can only show a balance of cash in
band amounting to £1630115. The exactitude
with which they account for the odd halfpence
contrasts oddly with their inability to explain
what they have done with the missing £3500. But
twas ever thus. When Mr. Berry and the other
Victorian ambassadors returned to Australia, they
accounted for a certain historical sixpence, but
failed to show where an odd £lOOO or so had gone.
Malicious people said it had been spent in suppers
for the ballet.
For a colossal piece of downright, three-
star libel, commend us to an interesting epistle
which was found in the pant pockets of a party
by the name of Sohroeder, who was hauled up at
the City Court, Melbourne, on Monday week, on a
charge of easing a Collingwood carrier or £B.
This is the style we see ourselves as others see us:
Sydney, 1884, Wednesday.—Dear Jim,—l take the
opportunity of writing to you to let you know
how things is. The push are all broak here; there
is no money in the alley. I was speaking to your
girl; she is near mad about you I told ner what
you were doing, but she still loves you for all that.
Possum had a glove tight in Brisbane for fifty
pounds draw. George Mulhollard fights a glove-
fight on Friday night. I don't know the other
bloak. I have haa no luok muoh since I came
baok. I might of wrote sooner but I am all ways
looking for a bob or two. Things are very crook
over here. There are not many mugs down this
year. The Melbourne push aro here. I am going
to Brisbane to-day. I will be over there after
Christmas. Paddy, the monte, has opened a spiel-
ing room at a hairdresser’s in George-street. I
was never so sick of a plaoe as I am of this town.
1 hope you are getting plenty of gilt. The Guys
are all broak here. I got a few quid the other day
off Paddy Hinds at poker, just expenses making.
I did not get any money in coming over in the
boat. Tarts and Biscuits aro here, but went broak
at the Peter. You take my advice and stop there
if you are doing any good. 8o no more now
at present.—Yours truly, John M’Leod. Give
my love to Selina. Answer this as soon as
possible.” “Things are very crook, mugs are
scarce, the Guys are all broak,” and even Paddy
the monte’s spieling room over the barber’s shop
fails to have any oharms for the aesthetic soul of
Mr, John M'Leod. This is sad; but a month's so-
journ at Reid’s Hotel, or a Christmas dinner in
Berrima gaol may possibly alter John’s Ideaß.
We hate proverbs, and wonder who first
invented them. The misdireoted energy of some
men reminds us of a steam-engine that expends its
force in bursting the boiler instead of driving the
machinery. The man who originated proverbs
would have immortalized himself, had he applied
his superfluous talents to the amelioration of his
kind, instead of wasting them in formulating a
host of miserable platitudes designed to harass the
mind and fetter the understanding of posterity.
But he missed the golden opportunity of doing
Sood, and has sunk into the obscurity ne so richly
eservod. History has charitably drawn a veil
over the wretohed person’s name. We have, how-
ever, after patient investigation, discovered that
there are in the British Museum some early Chal-
dean inscriptions which tend to show that the ori-
ginator of proverbs was a man named Shrnid, or
Smith, who kept a barber's shop, near the temple
of Belus. In the city of Babylon, and earned a pre-
carious living by.ocoasionally frizzling the looks of
the beautiful Queen Amyitis. We may naturally
assume that whatever energy he originally pos-
sessed was exhausted in the invention of the
maxims, so that he had not suflloient power left to
engrave them upon stone, and, as paper was then
unknown, the inference is that they were written
with a pointed fish-bone on tablets of mud and the
tablets subsequently hardened by exposure to the
sun. He being a barbar named Shmid or Smith,
what is more reasonable than to suppose that ho
was sorely in want of money, and we have no
doubt that he formed a kind of Joint stock com-
pany, or what we now call a syndicate, the mem-
bers of which took upon themselves the name of
prophets, in order the more easily to impose on the
credulity of the citizens. Those persons were em-
ployed to peddle the tablets about the streets ofithe
city, much the same as book-agents of the present
time. This view of the case is strongly supported
by Bcriptural testimony, for we find it stated in the
Bible that the prophets were stoned to death in
the streets of Babylon. We should think they
wore. The sufferings of these prophets always
excited our deepest sympathy till the above facts
dawned on our mind; but now our prejudices
against them aro of a very violent nature. We
regard proverbs as the literary enemies of ma -
kind. They are evidently constructed with the
malignant intention of preventing the human race
from indulging in any Kind of rational enjoyment
whatever, either mental or physical. When
crushed and disheartened beneath a load of misery
and misfortunes, we are forbidden to listen to the
cheering voice of Hope by tho wretched proverb
“ Don’t count your chickens before they are
hatched.” If we have a particularly good-looking
housemaid, and feel naturally anxious that our
wife should visit tho sea-side for tho benefit of her
health, no matter how eloquently wo may expati-
ate on the advantages derivable from sea-air, we
instantly collapse and begin to stutter when she
reminds us—whioh she is almost certain to do—of
the disgusting platitude about catching old birds
with chaff. We might succeed in allaying her sus-
picions and dispatching her on the Journoy if our
special line happens to be sophistry and dissimula-
tion. Even then the chances are that the maid,
after accompanying us in ecstatic delight to the
very boundary-line of discretion, will pelt two or
three bald-headed old proverbs right in our teeth,
and retire, leaving us overwhelmed with shame
and oonfusion. Our antipathy to proverbs is so
deep-rooted that we have now chartered a rusty
scythe blade, and aro fully resolved to fall, with
the ferocity of a Solomon-Islander. on the very
first man who digs a proverb out of himself in our
presenoe.


Professional Directory.
isuuujs.eS’ FEDERAL MINSTRELS and Spe-
u oialty Union, Sydney and Melbourne. Novel-
, apply F. E. Hiscocks..
W.
Sydney
HORACE BENT, with Hiscocks’Federal
Minstrels, at the Academy of Music,
mHEATRE ROYAL.
1 Under the direction of
Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
Lessee, Mr. 8. Lazar. Treasurer. Geo.L. Goodman.
Stage Manager—B. N. Jones.
LAST NIGHT
of the
DRAMATIC SEASON,
and the
LAST NIGHT
of
NEVER TOO LATE TO MEND.
ALFRED DAMPIER, B. N. JONES
and the „„
ROYAL DRAMATIC COMBINATION.
BOXING NIGHT,
RED RIDING HOOD:
or, Harlequin BOY BLUE.
PRICES: Dress Circle, 65.; Stalls, 35.: Family
Circle, 2s. PIT, ONE SHILLING.
Tickets for all parts of the house at Eastway s
Hotel. Box office open from 11 till 4. No free list.
N
E W
OPERA HOUSE
Lessees ... E. Majeroni and W. J. Wilson.
SIXTH WEEK. SIXTH WEEK.
This and Every Evening,
MAJERONI and WILSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY,
in LUBCOMBE SEARKLLE’S NEW OPERA
BOBADIL BOBADIL
BOBADIL BOBADIL BOBADIL,
With the following powerful Cast:-
Miss Grade Plaisted M u Frances Saville
Miss Minnie Desmond Miss Blanche Leopold
Mr. Chas. Harding Mr. Geo. Leopold
Mr. F. Wentworth Mr. Oily Deering
Mr A Davipfl Mr. W. P. Morrison
NEW SCENERY by Mr. ALFRED CLINT.
Grand ORCHESTRA under the Baton of
Leader M " LDBCO « BE “S'lfW
BOBADIL.' BOBADIL. BOBADIL.
Box plan now open at A. and C. Huenerbein 8
Music Warehouse, 318, George-street.
A I ETY THEATRE.
Lessee Mr. Wybert Reeve.
Manager for Mr. Reeve •• Mr. G. A. Coleman.
FOURTH WEEK
and
CONTINUED SUCCE3S
of the
MONTAGUE-TURNER ENGLISH OPERA
COMPANY
THIS TUESDAY EVENING,
LUCIA.
On Christmas Night
GRAND SACRED CONCERT.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. Prices: 55., 35., 25., Is.
Doors open at 7, overture 7.46.
H. TREVORAH, Business Manager.
DUNCAN MACALLUM, Agent.
G
OF MUSIC
— Mr. F. E. Hiscocks.
C A D E M Y_
Lessee and Manager
THIS AND EVERY BVENING.
HTS COCK’S federal minstrels
HISUUUJv Speolallty Union ,
with fresh faces and new business, and all the old
favourites.
FRIDAY EVENING. BOXING NIGHT,
BLACK PANTOMIME.
J H K
A USTRALIAN
WAXWORKS
WILL OPEN on
SATURDAY,
December 20,
in
GEORGE-STREET,
opposite the Cathedral,
KREITMAYER and SOHIBR,
Proprietors.
Bertram WILLISON, Australia’s Agent, re-
spJSsto old friends— Charley Taylor, Forde,
.fston, and Phil. Stuart.
THEATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
First open date, Monday. January
19th, 1885. Share or Let. Terms on applica-
lon to J. B. HICKIE,
Lessee.
N.B. Only responsible managers treated with.
ROCKHAMPTON, QUEENSLAND.
SCHOOL OF ARTB HALL.
CONSIDERABLE Additions and Improvements
have been made to the above Hall, which i 8
aow the most commodious place of ent f e^ a o in “®° t
in Rockhampton, and is In the centre of the town.
It Is thoroughly furnished and fitted, seated fo r
jOO people, and has a large Stage and Gallery.
Ample means of access and egress have been pro-
tHdod • also thorough ventilation. Travelling
companies will find special facilities for giving
entertainments in this Hall. Terms moderate.
Particulars on application to the Secretary.
NOW READY,
THE SYDNEY CHRISTMAS ANNUAL.
IT contains, in addition to other enterta ning
matter. An Amateur Musical Party, a clever
d witty Sketch; A Clerk in the Bank of New
South Wales; Taglioni, In Opera Dancer, un-
uueand excellent : Balmain Amateur Theatri-
cals- Love Me, Love my Dog ; Scolds ; Sparrow e
TMavhouse ; The Story of Mike Howe, the Bush-
The Italian Flower Girl; lhe Sea ; A
Paddington Warrior at his Devotions; An Unplea-
iant Mistake- Enjoyment; Daniel Henry Denichy,
°rhe Good Old Times; Lucy Lee;
losses and Johnny Warders; A Wandering Min-
•tr?l • My First Camp Out ; Mothers; Love and
r list •'TtinueranGe; Saturday Afternoon at Botany;
RandwlckSes-The Welsher; The Six Stages of
Drunkenness; Woman, Lovely Woman; An An-
ew Mariner; The Christinas Gathering; Expos-
Sale of a Wife; No Fools like Yoimg
Fools' Two Celebrated Circus Riders; Blinkers
Wooing ; Cruelty to Animals ; Eaten up by the
Natives of Fiji: Cabmen whom I have Met. A
Proohecy • An Unsophisticated Young Couple;
Caught on the Hop ; Aboriginal Hunters ; The
Liquor Question ; Military Intelligence, &0., &c.
It sparkles with Wit aud Humour, and is protusely
Tiinstrated By post, Is. 6d. ; Intercolonial, 2s.
TORTONVILLE and CO., Publishers, 81Bathurst-
Btreet, Sydney.
Foster’s Bugle Brand.
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT.
V
MB?*
14
5M
Bat
li
fi
S
ls3|
£
v*
M
W.
a?-
iVcE?
?w
SrSs
BASS PALE ALE.
The BEST ALE and STOUT in the Market.
BOLD BY ALL STOREKEEPERS AND WINIJ
MERCHANTS.
Virgoe, Son, & Chapman
AGENTS.
Duggssssgjn
'OSRieORftS
iM
°fLIF£
(e only intauiole remedy for
//er/oi/s JjebiLijyT
This Invaluable and acknowledged Medicine
affords relief and permanently cures all who
suffer wasting and withering of the nervous and
muscular tissues, spermatorrhoea, and all urinary
deposits, which causes incapacity and degeneracy
total and partial prostration, and every other ex
haustive derangement of the system: regenerating
all the important elements of the human frame,
and enabling man to fulfil his most Bacred obliga-
tions. In cases at 125., or four quantities is onefor
365.: if by coach, 2s. 6d. extra. Agents tor Sydney,?
Messrs. W. BARCLAY and CO., 43 Goulburn-
street. One Door from George-street South.
T
O ALL WOMEN
HAVE YOU USED
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
Borax Soap
ar TRY IT for FLANNELS, LINEN, LACES,
FLOORS or WOODWORK, in either HOT or
COLD WATER.
IT IS A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY
IN SOAP 1
Purifies, Cleanses, and Whitens all and everything
washed with it;
WILL HEAL SCRATCHES, CHAPS, and CUTS,
and make the skin soft and white.
ONE TRIAL WILL CONVINCE.
r Sold by every Storekeeper and Grocer at
6d. per Bar.
Sole Manufacturers :
Lewis & Whitty,
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
VENETIA WALT7T.
T*4 Air to be wsil marked. OAROLirs LowtuiaJT.
PJO, caJitabilh
rod
Fed.
I Ml
WILLIAM BULLARD has the Largest Stock
of MUSIC in the City.
Music.—Newest Songs, Pieces, Dances, &c.
Church Music, Anthems, Psalters, Services, &o.
Part Music, Glees, Choruses, Cantatas, &c.
Orchestral and Brass Band Music, in variety.
Catalogues of above post free.
Stationery.—Account Books, Letter and Note
Printing.— Invoices, Billheads, Circulars, Cards,
engraved or printed, Ball Programmes, Menu
ABorders executed in best style and promptly.
Books for Presents and School Prizes, in parcels,
Card Cases, Hand Bags, Fans, &c.
Music and Books bound in any sty le, cheap. _
Birthday and other Seasons Cards, splendid stock
The display of CHIIISTMAB CARDS this year
will be the finest ever seen ; many beautiful kinds
have already been received. x _ .
Call and see the two most important Copying
Instruments ever invented. The Trypograph
WILLIAM BULLARD,
342 GEORGE STREET.
ENGLISH
GOVERNMENT
CONTRACT.
FAC.SIMILE.
INSPECTING ENGINEER'S POEM.
Reply to be addressed to,—
The Director-General of Stores,
India Office,
Westminster,
s.w.
India Office,
Westminster, S.t7.
/6&o.
I am directed by the Secretary of State for India in Council to acquaint
you that your Tender of the date and for the articles mentioned below has
been this day accepted, subject to the Conditions and Specification on which you
tendered.
Your claim must be preferred in duplicate on the forms provided by
this office, and you are requested to quote on them the date of this letter
and the following reference. -
I request that you will acknowledge the receipt of this letter, and that
you will not commence the work until you have received full instructions
from the Inspecting Engineer.
I am,
Your obedient Servant,
G & S [945! «°0 8/x
The above ie a fac-eimile (omitting price) of the -Ftorfck coneecutive
order from the Britieh Government to the American Watch Co., of
Waltham, Maes., for Watches to he used hy the Co ”^ ct “"’ Th ;
Station-Masters, and other employees on the Indian State Railw y •
Waltham Watches were selected as The Best, after thorough ‘
and open competition with the watches of the most
makers. About 1600 Watches have now been furnished the British Govern
ment by the Waltham Company.
gold mf-dals.
HIGHEST AWARDS AT ALL EIJTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS
PHILADELPHIA, PARIS, SYDNEY, MELBOURNE;
AMERICAN WATCH COMPANY, WALTHAM, MASS., U.B. AMERICA.
Branch Office:
WALTHAM BUILDINGS, HON SYDNEY.
Offices and Sale Rooms : NEW YORL, BOSTON, CHICAGO, LONDUJN.
ROBBINS AND APPLKTON. General Agents,
DONALD MASON, General Manager in Australia.
The Wholesale only supplied.
*
m
■ w
Q 1
*
i
tit
wm*Ml
IKU
CASTO RIA
Infants and Children
Cas tori a cures Colic, Constipation,
Sour Stomach, Diarrhoea, Eructation,
Gives healthy sloop and promotes digestion,
Without injurious medication.
“Castor!» is so well adapted to children that
I recommend «t as superior to any prescription
inown to me.” H. A. Archer, M. D., j
. 11l Oxford Street, New Tori. ■
Elliott Bros., Sidney, Agent#.
iZU/ifreL.
post free, *vu


NOTICE OE REMOVAL.
TAILORS,
Late of 418 George-street,
TO
No. 3 Hunter-street,
SECOND DOOR FROM GEORGK-STREET.
170
R.BURGIS.
TAILOR. •
no
TRY BURGIS’ £3 3a. Suits, to measure. Trouser?
from 168. 6d.. All garments hand-made, and
thoroughly shrunk. This is the cheapest house for
a good, genuine suit of clothes. 170 PITT-STREET,
Sydney. Samples and diagrams tor at
forwarded to anv nart of the colon»
C. B. MODINI,
Gun Maker & Cutler.
BT- TWO BPBCIAL PRIZEB (the only awards)
at the International Exhibition, 1879-80, for
COLONIAL-MADE FIRE-ARMS AND CUTLERY.
A MAGNIFICENT stock of Single and Double-
barrelled Breech and Muzzle-Loading Guns and
Rifles, Revolvers, &c. All goods will bo faithfully
guaranteed at 603 GEORGE STREET. A choice
assorted stock of Table and Pocket Cutlery Just re-
ceived. All work and repairs executed equal to
any European workmanship.
N.B.—Sole Agent for Australia of the celebrated
English maker, Chab. Obboknb ; also Angelo* Bor-
doni. of Brescia, Italy.
.(omplete t
° DentistS °
THE YANKEE RUBBER
BABY.
THE unprecedented de-
mand for these inter-
esting infants has ex-
hausted the supply a full
month earlier than we an-
ticipated. A fresh supply
will, however, be received
in time for JCnms and New
Year's amusements ; it is,
therefore, advisable to send in your orders as
early as possible, and we will forward the infant
as soon as received. Post free, Is. od.
•r
THE WIZARD CARDS,
changing from eights
to deuces, from black to
red, and back again at the
pleasure of the per-
former. Post free, with
full instructions, Is. 2d.
I’m a Daddy ; I’m in
Love; 'i be Mether-in-law;
I’m a Farder; and Be
fore and After Marriage.
The funniest pictures ever issued, 5 in each set.
Price, 6d. per set, or 5 sets for 25.; by post, 2s. 2d.
The Three Donkeys. The newest have ” out.
Send for them, but keep it quiet. Price, Is.; by
post, Is. 2d.
The Sooner Dog—a wonderful little animal;
roars of laughter follow him wherever he goes.
Is. 6d.; by post, 2s. 6d.
Napoleon in Council, very rich, Is. 6d.; by post, 3s.
Metal Puzzles, the best in the world. Of these
we have a large assortment, priced as follows
New Challenge, Is. 6d.; New Favourite, Is. 6d.;
Arrow Heads, Is.; Afghan Maze, Is.; Mystic Kings,
Is.; Magic Heart, Is.; and many others. On single
puzzles add 2d. for postage. On receipt of 3s. we
will send, post free, to any address, one 18d. and
two at Is. each. , _
HORTON and CO.. 401 Oeorge-street, Sydney.
Box 641, G.P.O.
JTV A N 0 I N G .
PROF. WEST’S Beginners’ Classes, Monday and
Thursday. Advanced Classes and Visitors, Wed-
nesdays. Private Lessons, day and evening.
Morning and afternoon classes. The suite of
rooms (8), largest, coolest, most elegantly furnished
in Australia, to Rent for Balls, Weddings, Assem-
blies, Dinners, &o. Leigh House Academy, 251
Castlereagh■ street, near Bathurst-street. P.B.
The ball-room is much longer than Vestibule
Sydney Town Hall, exclusive of conservatory,
supper, and drawing rooms, which can all be
thrown together, and is superior in ventilation,
soring door, &c. No decorations required.
REGINALD TOMS,
TEACHER OE THE PIANO.
Communications to be addressed, care of
MESSRS. W. H. PALING & CO.
Vm. Howard Smith & Sons
(limited)
LINK Of FAST INTERCOLONIAL STEAMSHIPS
Offices: 43 KING STREET.
Wharves : Foot of King-street.
Steamers for MELBOURNE : MONDAYB, WED-
NESDAYS, and FRIDAYS.
Bteamers for BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, and
ROCKHAMPTON, TUESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
Bteamers Sydney to Townsville, direct (via Bris-
bane), every Saturday.
Steamers Brisbane to Townsville every Tuesday.
Steamers Brisbane, Bundaberg, and Port Mackay
every fortnight.
Fleet of Steamships:
BUNINYONG
BARRABOOL
BURWAH
CHEVIOT
DERWENT
EDINA
GABO
BALMATN
GEELONG
KEILAWARRA
KONOOWARRA
LEURA
MORETON
RODONDO
YOU YANGB.
WM. HOWARD SMITH & SONS (Limited),
42 Kinjf Street, Sydney.
The Berrygraph!
The Universal Copying Instrument, for
4|d. Fourpence halfpenny. 4^d.
Will take 70 Good Copies of any Letter.
Note size, 4s. 6d.; Letter, 65.; foolscap, 9s. pot
quire.
Full particulars,
w. BULLARD, 342 GeorgC-stroeh
ATRIMON
HEALTH and HAPPINESS.
Parents, the Newly-Married,
and those about to Marry, may
obtain much valuable informa-
tion,by simply sending a stamp-
ed addressed envelope for reply
to C.C.W., Box 76b, G.P.0., Sydney.
WASTE PAPER Hoop Iron, and Empty
Cases for Sale. Apply Publisher, Bulletin
Office.
9
Terms,
£1
Per Acre
Deposit.
Balance
extending
over
2 to 3
years.
No
Interest.
per Acre deposit
No Interest.
V
BLACKTOW
PARRAMATTA
GRANVILL
RICHMOND
§
WINDSOR
/
///
/// #
BLOCKS
ROSEBERRY
PARK
BOXING- DAY DEC 2.6
RIVERSTONE -
uctionSale
Special Train Luncheon.
Boyd % Kin&
AUCTIONEERS
% PITT ST
Terms,
£1
Per Acre
Deposit.
Balance
extending
over
2 to 3
years.
No
Interest.
Riverstone.
Bean hunting for ease all my life, and found it at
last with the Argosy Braoes at Gowing Bros.
b. i
m
,/m
mm
A.
i/.
■trm
mom
•v
GOWING BROS.
Have just Opened their Twelfth Conzign-
ment of the genuine
JLigoay Braces!
Argosy Braces, 2s. Oil., 35., 3s. 3d., & 4s. Oil
GOWING BROS.,
MEN’S MEBCERS, HATTERS, OUTFITTERS, &c.
332 and 49S George-street.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—ALTERATION OF AR-
RANGEMENTS at the
LAVENDER BAY
Swimming Baths
(the *nly pure sea-water baths near Sydney.)
Open every day for Ladies and Gentlemen from
6 a.m. till dark.
Admission,3d.; Children, accompanied by adults,
3d.; 100 tickets, 315.; Monthly Tickets, 55.; An-
nual Tickets, from Ist September, 31s.
SWIMMING TAUGHT by Mr. Frederick
Cavild, the world-renowned swimmer, who swam
from Franco to England in 13 hours, 30th August.
1877. Six Lessons, 31s. The North Shore Ferry
Steamers leave the Circular Quay for the Baths
every quarter-of-an-hour.
Royal Hotel,
Bungendore.
FIRST CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
J. Proprietor-
1
rW-X
JusF opened by
lENNAIAF
LANG, BROS
54 & 56 Wi
PLENDID
Tt)e PaaFry-, Tea. Cream
are -unequajlled-.-
LL
Ladies&(
F^efreshmenfs
m.c v.«re & nerresnmenr daily from 3 A M 1q11.30P.M
On Sundavs II P. M.
Orders Punctually
ED TO"AkcEARTOrTOWN TO II P-M
Specially Established fof\ Priyate Order Trade
The most
Suitable
$
For a Lady
or Gentleman
IS A COVENTRY MACHINISTS COMPANY’S
TRICYCLE
For LADIES or GENTLEMEN.
The Ladies' ‘Cheylesmore’
Is the most perfect Tricycle mode.
or
BICYCLE
For BOYS, YOUTHS, or ADULTS.
The SPECIAL CLUB
Is the most perfect Bicycle made.
OUR JUVENILE TRICYCLES are superior to any
that have ever before been offered in Australia.
OUR BOYS' BICYCLES are fitted and finished in best
style, handsome in appearance, and thoroughly reliable.
PRICES OF TRICYCLES
Range from £5 Qs. for Juvenile sizes
to 30 guineas for our highest sfgles.
PRICES OF BICYCLES
Range from 8 guineas for Roys' to
25 guineas for our highest finish.
We send, post free, the handsomest Catalogue in the Colony. Write for it.
James ItAUTIH 4C OKPT -
Opposite Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HR. A. BROWN & CO.,
PROFESSIONAL HAIRDRESSERS,
UO GEORGE BTREET
(Corner of Bond-street.)
From the Strand, London,
J. MASSEY, Jun.,
FIAHOS m ORGANS,
10 PARK STREET, SYDNEY,


“ German SxjuiP.”—No other medicine in
the world has ever given such a test of its cura-
tive qualities as Boschee’s German Syrup. In
three years two million four hundred thousand
small bottles of this medicine were distributed
free of charge by Druggists in the United States of
America to those afflicted with Consumption,
Asthma, Croup, severe Coughs, Pneumonia, and
other diseases of the throat and lungs, giving the
afflicted undeniable proof that German Syrup will
cure them. The result has been that Druggists in
every town and village in civilized countries are
recommending it to their customers. Go to your
Druggist and ask what they know about it. Sample
Bottles 6d. Regular size, 3a. 6d- Three doses will
relieve any case.
BRIEF MENTION.
China wants peace. So does France. She
Grants a piece of China.
The sole of music, as the boy said to the
Creaking boot, is ever with me.
In Camden there is a store called the “ Iron
Store.” It takes its name from the quality of its
groceries.
There is said to be a tremendous amount
of beer made in Tasmania. We suppose that is
the reason why it is called the “ tight little island.”
A bishop has recently delivered an address
on “ Moderate Drinking.” It is a characteristic of
the bishops to speak on subjects of which they
know nothing.
The Maoriland Senate contains a great per-
centage of drunkard l !. It is highly probable that
their Licensing Act provides tnat a corpse can rise
out of the grave on Sunday and get drunk—if the
landlord likes to serve.
The Japanese Government Gazette ad-
vertises the Bible for sale. So do several other
native papers. This is encouraging. The Bible
has a large circulation in Japan. The inhabitants
believe it is a Dream Book I
[From Moore.]
The harp that, once through Tara’s halls
The soul of music shed,
Now hangs quite mute on Tara’s walls—
The harper’ 8 gone to bed!
THE REASON.
“ Will you dance with me, Miss Crisper ? ”
“No,” she answered, with a frown,
“ The fact is—let me gently whisper—
My off-side stocking’s coming down! ”
We read in a contemporary the other day
Of a woman who had contracted the habit of eating
Starch. Wo do not believe this. She would have
been a “ stiff ” long ago. You can believe nothing
Jou read now-a-aays—exoept what appears in this
ournal.
Jack's Christmas.—A. South Sea Idyll.
Watermelon brandy is the newest kind of
©nemy mad© to put in th© human mouth. It is
said to be gloriously intoxicating. Whether or no,
It has one advantage—it can always be taken neat,
and the imbiber can still truthfully assert that
what he took had water in it.
They are going to open a “ Convicts’
Tavern” in Paris soon. The waiters will wear
convict dress. But, why not have real convicts to
wait? Wo oould mention a few well-connected
| you need not trouble.— Ed. B.] At least, there
are some nice old gentlemen we could name.
[That will do.— Ed. B.] (This is tyranny I- Writer.)
An exchange says that “a New Guinea
native ohief taken on board H.M.S. Nelson to re-
ceive a present became so alarmed that he leaped
through a porthole into the sea, and swam to a
canoe.” An amateur wit, who is now looking
over our shoulder, suggests that the chief thought
they were going to make him a C.M.G. What do
you think ?
Lord Wolseley, we see, was, when the mail
left, collecting his “properties ’ at Wady Haifa.
The performance may, therefore, shortly be ex-
pected to commence. The canoe which he used
on the Rod River has arrived. When the hat he
wore at the siege of Lucknow and the boots he
had on at Coomassie have also cotno to hand, we
may look for at least a full-dress rehearsal.
When the Czar arrived at Warsaw, a depu-
tation presented him with bread and salt. A lick
looked hard at the salt. He thought it might be
strychnine. Then he and his wife went to the
Cathedral, and he, the murderer of countless thciu-
sands whose bones lie in the gloom of Siberian
m i ne g ‘ reverentially kissed the crucifix. Judas
Iscariot himself went but one step further.
They say that for a letter to reach the
Pone it has to he enclosed in three envelopes. We
are sorry for this. We were going to send His
Holiness some specimens of what Zachary Barry
usually says about him. But we can’t afford three
envelopes in these times. Besides, if we CQuld,
there has not, for the last month, been moisture
enough on our tongue to Soften the gum on them.
In the reign of Charles 11., Soroggs, that
Infamous Chief Justice of the King’s Bench, and
ftil the other Judges, declared under their bandß,
That to print or publish any news book, or pam-
phlets of news whatsoever, is illegal; that it is a
manifest intent to the breach of the peace, and
they may be proceeded against by law for an
illegal thing. The spirit of Scroggs lives again
in some N.S. Wales Judges.
“One must be a woman to know how to
revenge,” says the editor of an Auckland journal,
r 8 enou kh Internal evidence here to show
that he must have written this sentiment under
the influence of excitement—and excoriation.
Bathing the brow with warm water is, perhaps,
fbe best remedy. Editors should never marry.
At least, they should not marry too much,
Moderation is better than genius.
THE COUNTRY PRINTER’S SANCTUM.
Patched and broken are the windows,
Dirty bills are thickly spread
On the outside of the building
And the hoarding overhead.
Inside—pugh I—the smell is beastly,
(Like a place where clothes you “ pop ”):
Can you guess the place I mention ?
’Tls a jobbing printer's shop.
Two youths of ender age named O’Con-
nell and Wateraon (ye god’s, what anon!) “an-
nexed” a revolver each in the shop of one
William Miller at Sandhurst (Vio.), a short time
back. Probably, as the weapons stolen were
second-hand, tha “annexers ” thought that taking
them away was the only sure method by which
the revolvers would “go off.” The bench primed
the youngsters with ad vioe, and, when discharging
the prisoners, one of the magistrates—a German-
told them they “shoot” be more careful in
future.
The Queen wallows in wealth—and spends
money in extricating from the complications of the
Divorce Court that graceless whelp, the Duke of
Hesse. Her Majesty is disgustingly rich, the Prinoe
of Wales has also an enormous income, and yet
Parliament is asked to give £15,000 a-year to the
Prince of Wales’ eldest son. Royal mendicanoy
will never cease. The countless tribe of the
Queen’s grand-children—close upon thirty-are
now arriving at that period of life when they con-
sider themselves entitled to be quartered on the
Surse and pocket of the English working man.
ter Majesty is richer than was the Queen of Sheba,
and yet she allows her prinoely pauper relations to
rattle their royal begging-box in the faces of the
thousands who are rotting to death in the cellars
Sunderland—eating raw cabbage-stumps, mothers
pawning almost their last rags to feed their dying
children. A Royal Rabbit-Act should be passed to
deal with these sturdy, ever-multiplying, distin-
guished German beggars.
Here is something for Brother Booth and
John Davies, and other temperance cranks, to con-
sider—prayerfully; an item that will prove In-
teresting to colonial licensing benches. Patrick
Bannon kept a snug little grocery In the village of
Two-mile, Borrls, County Tipperary, and Pat
thought that the convenience of his customers
would be better conserved could they got their
little “ dhrop ov dhrink ” under his roof-tree. So
he applied for a grog-dispensing license, which
was duly opposed by some looal optionist. Then
attorney Pennefather, who appeared to support
Pat’s application, proceeded to point out the bene-
fits that would accrue to the community were the
license granted, showing that It would conduce to
the peace and prosperity of the district. “ For-
merly,” said the sapient lawyer, “there were three
public-houses in this village: but the licenses for
two of them have lapsed, leaving only one open
at present. In the public interests, it is absolutely
necessary that two houses should be opened, for
if all the country people were to be confined to
entering one public-house, they might all take to
lighting and murdering each other, If they had
two such houses, they would be separated, and
would have no quarrelling.” And then the Bench
was pleased to take the same view of the subject
—so the license was granted. It takes a Hibernian
lawyer to discover a .new method of preserving
the public peace.
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH.
Beside a dingy public-house the village smithy
Bt&nds *
The smith, a nasty man is he, with beastly dirty
hands; , , „
And the muscles of bis brawny arms a bruiser well
might suit;
His face is void of any charm—he looks a nasty
brute.
His brow is wet with beery sweat, he scarcely earns
a bob;
But to drink up another’s drink he’s always on the
job I
Week in, week out, from morn to night, he curses
high and low;
You seldom hear his hammer’s beat, his step is dull
and slow;
Communications from his mouth are seldom “ yes”
or “no.”
And children coming home from school run fright-
ened past his door,
They fear to see the ugly beast, and shun his
drunken roar;
They’d only catch a kick or blow, if they lingered
near his dooi.
He never goes inside a ohurch, and never sends his
boys;
He never heard a parson preaoh; he hates his
daughter’s voice,
Snarling over her kitchen-work, it makes him
swear like vioe,
Reminding him of her mother’s voice—that wasn’t
over nice.
And when he thinks of her once more, how in the
grave she lies,
He thinks in his heart that Providence is some-
times kind and wise.
Cursing, drinking, borrowing, onward through life
he goes.
No morning sees good work began, no evening sees
it close.
Nothing attempted, nothing done, from gin he
gets repose.
The notorious “Naples Water,” or Aqua
Toffana, used with such dire effect in the 17th
century, was believed at the time to be a prepara-
tion of arsenic, and there was another preparation
of the same deadly substance in use about the
same time, noth thesj poisons were more viru-
lent than arsenio, and one of them at least is said
to have been prepared by means which modern
science has only recently come to understand.
Recent research, it is said, has proved that arsenic,
when applied to organic matter, BUGh as flesh,
forms compounds of a character far more poison-
ous than arsenic itself. This is a singular fact,
that seems likely to present some curious develop-
ments, and it would seem to be not merely
arsenic that may be intensified in its action this
way. Dr. Burdon Sanderson says the medical
officer of health for St. Pancras, experimenting
with the material taken from the abdominal cavity
of a dog that died from inflammation of the peri-
toneum, found that when injected into the abdo-
minal cavity of another dog, the virulence of the
poison was increased, and that thus it was possible,
by passing this poison through a number of dogs,
to breed a poison which was as intense as that of a
snake. So, also, it is suspected by some that dip-
theria will result from a simple sore throat, de-
veloping its true character after passing through
successive individuals. It was by a knowledge of
some law, which seems to be thus obscurely indi-
cated, that acquetta di Perugia was produced, and
the production of this poison led to the forming
of an association of young married women for the
assassination of their husbands. The “Naples
water,” however, was more extensively used than
this. It was as clear as water, and five or six drops
would cause death, which, however would not be
immediate, and of which the best science of the day
could give no explanation. The woman Toffana
is said to have confessed to 600 murders by its
means, and is known to have used it with impu-
nity for half a century. It was not until 1836 that
chemical analysis was equal to the detection of
poisoning by arsenic with any degree of certainty.
This drug, says our author, is, while tasteless and
deadly, capable of introduction into the human
frame in all manner of subtle ways, of killing
slowly or quickly, and of similating the effects of
disease. The invention of a certain test for it is so
important that the art of its disoovery marks a
toxicological epoch, from which we may fairly
date the rise of modern poison lore. Marsh’s test
“ will separate with certainty a millionth of a grain
of arsenic—thus the most tasteless and the easiest
administered poison in the world is also the one
which it is the easiest to detect.”
It was a glorious Sunday afternoon in the
Domain. The sun shone brightly on the just and
on the unjust with strict impartiality, and the
gentle breezes that wafted the balmy odours
across Woolloomooloo Bay were equally unbiassed
in the distribution of their favours. The harsh
tones of the Domain howlers broke the solemn
stillness that reigned in that Arcadia during the
early part of the day, and the fog-horn accents of
the only Ardill of the ’Ome of ’Ope, and flaancier-
in-chief to the Blue Ribbing bounties, rose clarion-
like above the hum of human voices as he ad-
dressed his Amazonian body-guard and the fearless
warriors of the prison-brigade under the shade of
an umbrageous fig-tree, descanting on the failure
of St. Paul’s mission to the Californians, as com-
pared with that of Mrs. E. M. E. Browne’sto Orange
(where, out of a possible 3000, 2500 of the ungodly
found the Loard ”), the depravity of those who
refuse to subscribe to the mission, and the utter
absurdity of the inquisitive individuals who clam-
our for a balance sheet just when it was least
convenient to publish It. Justthen a picturesque
specimen of the genus “ dead-beat,” redolent of
Queensland rum, ungainly of gait, and uncomely to
look upon, ambled his way towards the pious crowd.
His raiment did not display the cunning of a George
street fashionable tailor, and the rents which ran
from Dan even unto Beersheba through his outer
garments, exhibited rifts of under-wear that paid
but a poor compliment to the ability of his laun-
dress. His beard was lengthy, and the ends of
straws stiokir g out afforded convincing evidence
that his couch had not been fitted up with Orien-
tal splendour, while the tile which crowned his un-
kempt locks had been battered very much out of
Its original shape through being used as a pillow.
For a few brief moments he listened attentively
to Ardill’B eloquence, and then a bright thought
seemed to strike him. “ There’s money in it, sure
enough,” he softly murmured, as he gently hacked
himself up against the trunk of an adjacent tree
for a friendly support, “ an’ I don’t see why that
blooming feller should scoop It all.” And then,
with a preliminary hiccup that spread a blast of
malaria lor a matter of ten yards, he broke forth
into saored song, and lifted up a voice as tuneless
as that of a well-regulated bull-frog, in a demo-
ralised attempt to warble, “ The Sweet By-and
Bye ” with Improvised variations. This had an
electric effect on the crowd whom the sanctified
Ardill had hitherto held spell-bound by his impas-
sioned oratory In recounting the sad, sad story of
that historic shin of beef; and, with a fickleness
peculiar to human nature, they promptly deserted
that loud-mouthed saint, and gathered round the
new aspirant for celestial glory. And it is reason-
able to suppose that the efforts of the old bummer
would result in great and lasting spiritual good to
his hearers, had not an unregenorate policeman
sidled up to him, and, in the mellifluous brogue of
the county Kerry, propounded the query, " Now,
fwhat’s yer little game here, I’d like to know ?”
“ Well, to tell you the truth,” answered the dead-
beat, “ I’m aholdln’ ov a prayer meetln’, just fur
the glory ov the Lord, an’ then I’m agoin’
to take up a collection fur to pay expenses.
I don’t want much—only a bob each fur my
supper an’ bed, an’ sixpennorth o’ rum fur a
pillor.” “ Thin you’d betther pronounce the bini-
dictlon at wonst, an’ move an out o’ this, or you’ll
be sartain ov yer boord and lodgin’ for the night—
though, on me conscience, I wouldn't answer for
the pillow, me ould buck.” was the uncompromis-
ing mandate of the “ bhoy in blue.” “ well, I’ll
do summat pious afore I go,” softly sighed the
would-be evangelist, as he went round with the
hat, and raked in the coppers from the crowd;
“ ’ere’s sixpence as one gent has give for the pil-
lor, anyhow, an’ the rist’ll get a feller a bit o
grub.” And having panned out the contents of
the improvised collection-box, he started off for
the classic regions of Woolloomooloo to get “the
piilor,” while the beatified Ardill gathered his
scattered lambs into the fold, and went on with his
harangue.


Cleanse the Vitiated Blood
10 CLEANSE the Vitiated Blood of Scrofulous,
Inherited, and Contagious Humors, and thus
remove the most prolific cause of human suffering,
to clear the skin of Disfiguring Blotches, Itching
Tortures, Humiliating Eruptions, and Loathsome
Sores caused by Inherited Scrofula, to purify and
beautify the Skin, and restore the Hair so that no
trace of disease remains, Cuticuka Resoi/v en t T )
the new blood purifier, and Cuticura and Ctjti-
cura Soap, the great Skin Cures and Beautifiers
are infallible.
CTTTICURA RESOLVENT, the new blood Puri-
fier, cleanses the blood and perspiration of
impurities and poisonous elements, and thus re-
moves the cause. CUticura, the great Skin Cure,
instantly allays Itching and Inflammation, clears
the Skin and Scalp, heals Ulcers and Sores, and re-
stores the Hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Beautifler, prepared from Cuticura, is indis-
pensable in treating Skin diseases, Baby Humors,
Skin Blemishes.
JAMES E. RICHARDSON, Custom House, New
Orleans, on oath, saysln 1870 Scrofulous
Ulcers broke out on my body until I was a mass of
corruption. Eyerything known to the medical
faculty was tried in vain. I became a mere wreck.
At times could not lift my hands to my head,
could not turn in bed; was in constant pain, and
looked upon life as a curse. No relief or cure in
ten years. In 1880 I heard of the Cuticura
Remedies, used them, and was perfectly cured.”
Sworn to before U.S. Com. J. D. Crawford.
Sold by all Chemists and Druggists.
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N.S.W., Consignees.
I HAVE HAD a Ringworm Humor got at the
barber’s, for six years, which spread all over
my ears, face, and neck, and which itched and irri-
tated me a great deal. I have used many reme-
dies by advice of physicians without benefit.
Your Cuticuka Remedies have entirely cured
me, taking every bit of humor off my face and
leaving it as smooth as a dollar. I thank you again
for the help it has been to me.
GEORGE W. BROWN, Mason.
48 Marshall St., Providence, R.I.
Price: Cuticura, 50 cents; Soap, 35 cents; Re-
solvent, $l.OO. Prepared by
Potter Drtttr and Chemical Co., Boston
READ ANALYTICAL REPORTS.
■ i ■■-KF
1
B
Si
*>
Z)
•wH
*
jfii
SHii
ft
o
9
INVALUABLE
•urrmiNa
tp°!!
L* # m
Qss
[on
?/A
es
sr
Ne
[Vou
ivtr
s s
[Sen
ul
F!5
Hi
•^SPECIALLY*
APTID FOR T
Colonies*
SEE MEDICAL TESTIMONY.
JAS. LAWSON & SONS,
ART-FURNITURE MAKERS,
UPHOLSTERERS,
AND
CARPET WAREHOUSEMEN,
Comer of William-street, Hyde Park.
High-class Furniture
At Very Lowest Prices, compatible with the finest
workmanship and finish, for entrance halls,
dining-rooms, drawing-rooms, bedrooms,
and libraries.
CARPETS IN NEWEST DESIGNS AND
FINEST QUALITY.
WILTON CARPETS, BRUBSELS CARPETS,
AND KIDDERMINSTER CARPETS,
With Hearthrugs to match.
jgT CORLICINE AND LINOLEUM.
BEDSTEADS IN BLACK AND NICKEL AND
BLACK AND BRASS,
In all sizes and various designs.
Holiday Presents,
W
Vv •
PALING
AND CO. (Limited),
HAVE JUST RECEIVED A MAGNIFICENT SHIPMENT OF
COTTAGE,
UPRIGHT GRAND
SEMI-GRAND,
CONCERT GRAND
PIANOS,
by the
MOST RENOWNED
MAKERS
in the
WORLD.
es
AMERICAN
ORGANS,
by
BELL and CO.,
PALACE CO.,
STORY and CO.,
at
PRICES to SUIT ALL
CUSTOMERS.
These instruments have been SPECIALLY SELECTED by Mr. W. H. PALING, who is NOW
IN EUROPE, and may justly be considered
TEE EMIEST MI MOST EECIEEC3E SMUT
of Musical Instruments ever introduced to Australia.
The Lowest Possible Prices for Cash; or Easy Terms.
Mr. PALING has also FORWARDED a COMPLETE ASSORTMENT of
MUSICiiL BOSSES,
FROM TWO TO SIXTEEN AIRS.
These Goods will he Sold at TJnheiird-of Prices,
W. H. PALING & CO. (Limited),
356 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lfll King-street (near Tramway), Sydney.
Madame Weigel’s Paper Patterns of Dresses, Mantles, Bcc.,
And Weigel’s Journal of Fashions,
Containing the latest styles, are sold at the above address, and by the following
agents :
Chippendale—Mrs. Beales, Fancy Repository, 131 Regent-street.
Newtown—Mrs. Griffiths, Milliner, &c., 335 King-street.
Parramatta-Mrs. Chapman, Fancy Repository, Church-street South.
Sydney—Miss E. Kay, Fancy Repository, 107 Ox ford-street.
Waterloo—Mrs. 8. Waller, Milliner, 34 Elizabeth-street.
Principal Retail and Wholesale Business—l6l King-st., Sydney (near Tramway).
READ THIS!
A Single Watch at Manufac-
turing Price.
Bilver Hunting Patent English
Lever, capped and jewelled,
with the latest improvements,
£3 lOn, each,
Warranted for three yean,
CAN BE BOUGHT AT
269 Pitt-st., Corner Royal Arcade
(CORNER SHOP ONLY.)
C. SIMMAT,
WATCHMAKER ANu JEWELLER
Black Swan Hotel,
GREENWELL POINT.
J. H. DEVLIN, Proprietor.
FIRBT Class Accommodation for Private Fami-
lies. Green paddocks, shooting, fishing and
hunting. Good Stabling. Plenty of oysters to be
obtained at a moment’s notice. For business
people, who require a holiday, the place is unsur-
passed. The magnitlciont s.s. Illawarra, leaves
every Tuesday aud Friday night, at 11
o r clock.
Visiting Cards
WHILE YOU WAIT
GENT.'S 60, Is. 6d.; 100, 2s. fld.
LADIES’ 50, 2a. Od.; 100, 3s. Od.
Address, 6d. extra.
Neat Business Cards.
100, 3s. 6d.; 250, 6s. Od. ; 500, 10?.; 1000, 13s.
NO CHARGE FOR ENGRAVING PLATE.
83?“ Orders executed and forwarded by return
post.
TEE DIRECT”SUPPLY CO.,
239 Pitt*street, Sydney,
Ik
EXTENSION OF PREMISES.
Opening of New Show Rooms.
Missis. B, LLOYD l CO.
GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE WYNYARD STREET.
Ladies’ Underclothing & Baby-Linen.
T t3T A Magnificent NEW BTOCK was selected by Mr.
Lloyd In London, Paris, and in Ireland
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF DRESSING GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND BHOWOF TEA GOWNS.
FIRST GRAND SHOW OF UNDERCLOTHING.
An endless variety of Dressing Gowns, Tea Gowns, Morning Wraps, Cashmere Robes, Children’s
Washing Pelisses and Cashmere Frocks. (The most complete stock ever shown.)
ERIN-GO-BRAQH!
IRISH HAND-MADE UNDERCLOTHING. | LONDON MACHINE-MADE UNDERCLOTHING.
LADIES’ DRAWERS, CHEMISES AND NIGHT-DRESSES.
fW“ An array beggaring description. Moderate prioes. Call and ask for illustrated Catalogue.
WRIGHT, HEATON & GO.
(LIMITED).
GENERAL CARRIERS,
Forwarding, Shipping, Custom House
and Commission Agents,
HEAD OFFICE:
241 Pitt Street, Sydney
OAfrttTKKH TO THB GOVERNMENT OF NETT
SOUTH WALKS,'
BRANCH OFFICES.
80UTHIRH District, N.8.W.:
Goulburn
Yaaa
Bowntng
Blnalong
Harden
Young
Cootamundra
Junee
Wagga Wagga
Hanging Book
Culcalrn
Cowabee
Narandar
Hulong
Carratnool
Hay
wmtbrk District, N.8.W.:
Capertce
Bathurst
Blayney
Orange
Wellington
Dubbo
Narromlne
Nevertire
Nyngan
Forbes
Condoblin
Nymagee
Cobar
Coonamble
Bourke
northers District, N.S.W.:
Morpeth
Gunnedah
Narrabrl
Walgett
Brewarrina
Tamworth
Uralla
QUEENSLAND BRANCHES.
Southern and South-Wmtirn Lin*:
Brisbane
Roma
Dalby
Yeulba
Cambooya
CiirritAL Lm:
Rockhampton
rantu
erald
Capella
Comet
Northern Line:
Townsville
Charters Towers
Kavenswooa Junction
Agent* In Victoria and South Australia:
WM. M'CULLOCS fe 00., LIMITED.
Agencies in all part* of the world.
OXYGEN IS LIFE.
Dr. Bright's Phosphodyne*
mHB only Reliable Remedy for Indigestion*
JL Nervousness, Nervous Debility, Liver Com-
plaints, Female Complaints, Lassitude, Lobs of
Power. Mental and Physical Depression, Decline*
and all Functional Derangements. Thoroughly
recruits and re-establishes Health. Highly recom-
mended by the Medical Faculty. 0T" CAUTION.—
The indubitable proof of the great value of Di-
Bright’s (the only genuine) Phosphodyne is the
various worthless imitations which are being made
up. Therefore ask for Dr. Bright’s Phosphodyne
and refuse useless and possibly Dangerous Substi-
tutes. Wholesale Agents: ELLIOTT BROTHERS.
DR. BOYD
SPECIALIST
Graduate in MEDICINE and SURGERY, Regis-
tered Physician of N.S.W. Speciflo: FEMALE and
NERVOUS Diseases a speciality, and treated by
the most Modern Methods.
Office Hours—lo a.m. to 4 p.m.; 7to 9 Monday,
Wednesday, and Saturday evenings.
Certificate of Registration, Diplomas, and Testi-
monials of Numerous Cures can be seen at office.
Electricity as used by the most eminent Physicians
of France and Germany. Send for Free Treatise
on Vitality, Nervous Debility, &c. (or Diseases of
Women.)
Address—ELTON BOYD, M.D., Australian Medi-
cal and Surgical Infirmary, or B. O. HOLTER-
MANN, Esq., M.P., President.—P.O. Box 673.
Ladies’ Waiting-room, No. 10; Gentlemen’s, No.
11. 62 Castlereagh-stroet, Sydney. Note.—Office
and Waiting-rooms UP STAIRS. CONSULTA-
TIONS FREE BY MAIL OR IN PERSON.
Coola/ta Wines,
VERY CHOICE, FOR CHRISTMAS.
TT OCK. Muscat Sherry, Claret, Burgundy, and
XX Port. Also, at the ifodefta, the above
Wines in quart Jars. Jars allowed for when re-
turned.
John A. Wilkinson,
354J4 GEORGE STREET.
Vj
"D OAR’S HEAD STOUT.—This favourite brand
n of Stout selected with great care from the
best of the brewings of the oelebrated firm of
Arthur Guinness and Co., Dublin, and therefore
oanpot be excelled. To be procured everywhere.
0 ATT ILL * 00* Sole Agents.


THE ORIENTAL GOLD CO.
Ghristnras Gifts! Christmas Gifts!
T he . ORIENTAL com COMPANY havo.
with their usuai thoughtfulness tor the
general public, imported, specially for the Xmas
season, a great variety of the most novel and ex-
qulsite goods which cannot fail to suit the tastes
ot the most fastidious. The goods, which have
been carefully selected by their agent from all the
best manufactories, are well worthy of inspection,
each article possessing some special charm of its
own, and nothing can be more adapted for grace-
ful and elegant Christmas Gifts than these beauti-
ful gems. Note our price list, and
Remember the Address :
474 George -st., Sydney, op. Markets
PRICE LIST.
Ladies’ handsome Oriental Gold Alberts, with
double slides and tassels, 155., 203., and 255. each;
Handsome Jewelled Earrings, 65., 65., 7s. 6d.,
Bs., Bs. fid., 08., and 10s a pair; Ladies’ choice
Necklets, from 12s. 6d. to 305.; Ladies’ very
handsome Necklets, set in splendid Alaska Dia-
monds, £2los. to £5 55.; Ladies’ elegant Bangles,
78. to 15s. a pair ; Ladies’ handsome Cloak
Clasps, 15s. to 80s.; Ladies’ very best American
Rolled Gold Chatelaines 30s. each ; Ladles’
choice Lockets and Necklets, 17s. fid., 20s , 225.
fid., 255., 275. 6d., 305., 355., and 405.; Handsome
Gem Rings, 7s. 6d., Bs. 6d., 10s., 15s , 205., and 80s.
each; Elegant Keepers, Wedding Rings, and
Fancy Rmgs, from2s fid. to Bs. 6d. each; Bolid
Gold Wedding and Keeper Rings, 10s. each.
Gent.’s Oriental Gold Watch, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless ..
Ladies’ Oriental Gold Watoh, in hunting
or open faced crystal glasses, with
handsome Oriental Gold double Albert
with slides and tassells
Same as above, except that this watch is
patent keyless ...
HT" These watches are made specially to our
order, and stamped with our trade mark ; the
movements are of the highest finish, and jewelled
throughout, and rated to perfection.
Celebrated English Patent Lever, capped
and fully jewelled, in hunting or open
faced crystal glasses, with Oriental
Gold Albert
Celebrated English. Patent Lever, extra
jewelled, and compensation balance,
with Oriental Gold Albert
Rotheram’s celebrated English Patent
Levern
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
The celebrated Waltham Watch, in hunt-
ing or open faced crystal glasses, with
Oriental Gold Albert
Ditto ditto, compensation balance, with
Oriental Gold Albert «« io
A written warrantry for three years’ accurate
performance is forwarded with each watch.
Sterling Silver Double Dial Chronograph.
with Oriental Gold Albert .. .
Ditto, extra jewelled, of the highest
grade
Ditto, in hunting cases, compensated and
full jewelled, with Oriental Gold Chain
and Locket 10 0
We imporj; our watches direct from the manu-
facturers, and give our customers the advantage
of all the saving thus effected-about 35 per cent,
as compared with prices when wholesale middle-
men 8 profits have to be charged. Thus we can
give as good a watch for £3 as can be sold for £5
In most Sydney establishments ; and, as compared
with country prices, our £5 watches would not
cost less than £8 to £lO.
Gent’s Oriental Gold Alaska Diamond Rings, 6s. fid.,
7s. fid- Bs. fid., and 10s. each : Gent’s Oriental
Gold Alaska Diamond and Ruby Rings. 7s. fid.
and 88. fid., each; Gent’s Oriental Gold RiDgs.
plain half, round buckle, flat broad buckD, en-
graved, good luck rings, &c., &0., from ss. to
Bs. 6a. each; Gent’s richly chased engraved and
plain Solitaire and Link Suites, 7b., 7s. fid., Bd..
Bs. fid., os., 10s., and 12s. fid. per set ; same as
above, only half sets, 35., 45., and ss. per set;
Very latest American Patent Spring Solitaire
Suites, 10s. per set: Gent’s elegant Seals, real
stones, 78. fid., Bs., 95., 10s.. and 12s. fid. each ;
Gent's elegant Compasses, latest designs, Bs.,
10s., and 12s. 6d. each ; Gent’s Oriental Gold Al-
berts, handsome patterns, fis. fid. and 10s. each;
Gent’s very latest American Rolled Gold Al-
berts, made specially.to our order, 17s. fid., 205.,
255., and 30s. each.
£2 2 0
£2 5
£2 15 0
£3 0 0
£4 6 0
£5 5 0
£4 10
£5 6
£3 8 0
£4 15
£5 6 0
£6 0 8
ORIENTAL. GOLD
Is the latest discovery of Science and the grandest
achievement of the alchemist’s art. It looks like
gold, it Is as heavy as gold, and it is more enduring
None but an expert can detect the difference, and
then only by the severestltests. Ornaments made
from this new composition are equal in design
general appearance to those made of the finest
18-carat gold, and yet we sell them at but a tithe
ofithe Cost of the genuine goods.
Remember that we do not pretend that Oriental
Gold is anything but a composition of puremetais;
but we do affirm that it is so perfect an imitation
of the sterling gold as to almost defy detection.
Jewellery made of it may be worn anywhere, and
the olosest inspection will only strengthen the con-
viction that it is real gold. So perfect is it, and so
large has our trade become, that jewellers through-
out the colonies are complaining of the dullness in
trade, and are constantly writing to us to secure
our goods for their own customers. But as we are
Sole Agents for these colonies, wo prefer to deal
direvtly with the public. Ail of our Oriental Gold
Jewellery is made to our order, and is stamped
with our trade mark. You can order anything
from a Scarf Pin to a Watch and Chain, and it will
be tent Post Free, and at our risk, on receipt of
price.
SPECIALLY OBSERVE.
Should you be dissatisfied with your investment
after inspecting the articles, re-pack them at oDce
and send them back to us. If this is done within
two days—or where mails are few, by the first post
after receipt, and the articles are not injured -we
will return the money, deducting only the trifle
expended on postage. You can keep any one
artiole and return the rest, and we will refund the
money for the artielesjiot retained. Fair dealing
is our motto, and we bind ourselves to give satis-
faction. Examine our catalogue, and send in your
order for what you may require.
The Oriental Gold Company have been ap-
pointed Sole Agents for the AUTOPHONE- price,
308.; also for the ROLLER ORiSAN—price, iOs.
No house should be without one of these charming
little Instruments.
IST THIRTY SHILLINGS.
THIRTY SHILLINGS.
The Autophone I
High-Toned Hash and other
Things.
...We once lived in what was described aa a
superior boarding-hoiise. After the first day’s resi-
uenoe we discovered that the phrase was used in a
Jesuitical sense. In simple language, it meant that
Sr o'boarding-house 0 'boarding-house was superior to its description.
Yet there was no lack of style. There were three
(Servants employed—a housemaid, chambermaid,
and cook. The latter got drunk regularly twioe a
7*oek. after the fashion of herikindlnall high-class
establishments. The first traces of her approach-
ing orgie would show themselves at breakfast.
The chops would be brought in on a large dish
under an electro-plated cover. And there the
show would end. When the cover was lifted, the
sight revealed would be enough to make the appe-
tite of the most determined boarder die within
him. The chops were curled with contempt and
black with venom. If we had not seen it ourselves
we could never have believed that human food
could express so much unnatural truculence.
Each of those villainous chops seemed to be in-
stinct with a demoniao desire to choke the person
that ate it. So much wore we impressed with this
idea that we have often caught ourselves think-
ingthey were alive and grinning at us familiarly,
as though they wished to imply that we were
in conspiracy with the oook for the slaughter
of the household. When the knife touched
them there was a grinding sound as of
wheels on gravel. That was the cindery enve-
lope being out through. It was as thick on
one side as on the other. In the middlo was what
might be called the soul of the chop. It was, as
usual with souls —invisible. But the gravy was
perhaps worse We never saw it without thinking
of those boga In Iceland, where the traveller has
to spring from hummock to hummock on his way
through a sea of mud. So the cinders sat thick in
that gruesome gravy. No matter how hot the
plates were, immediately it was poured on them
its one desire seemed to be to clot and coagulate in
the shortest possible time. In fact, the cook seemed
to have infected all the dishes—even to the mild
and innocent-looking eggs, half of which inva-
riably turned out bitterly bad—with her own
fiendish malice. She was from the blackest North
of Ireland, and always grew malicious when she
got intoxicated. While we were getting through the
salvage of the breakfast in moody silence, there
would be a crash, followed by a soream and a
growl. Tnat would be a dish smashed and the
cook hammering the housemaid, she never
Bpreaujed. the oook ; always growled. Up would
start the landlady—a poor, peevish creature, who
had seen the usual number of better days—and
down she would go to the kitchen. Soon there
would be a sound of altercation, and then another
crash which meant another dish gone to glory.
The oook always conducted her side of the argu-
ment after this keramoclastio fashion. The
landlady would shortly after make her ap-
pearance in a condition of fright and flut-
ter, utterly routed out of the cook’s Cim-
merian domain. The voice of the victor
would then be heard mounting higher and higher
until her plantigrade feet would come to rest at
the top of the kitchen stairs. There she would
settle herself for as long as the breakfast lasted,
and talk to an imaginary audienoe in tones of the
most withering scorn about the total meanness of
the situation sne was in, the squalid character of
the room she had to sleep in, the miserable inade-
quacy of the utensils given her to cook with, the
wretched niggardliness of materials to cook, and
the general and thorough imposture of the whole
establishment, winding up with a wonder than any
people could be found to pay for living in it, and a
■oornfhi supposition that it was “ good enough for
the likes of those that lived in it now.” This last
remark invariably sent a shiver round the table,
and each of us looked at his neighbour with an
expression which plainly oonveyed that wo con-
sidered him a very low person indeed to put up
with such things. Yes, she made us all loathe
each other, that dlabolioal oook. It is many a day
sinoe we left that superior boarding-house, yet,
whenever we meet one of our former fellow-
boarders in the street, both of us instinctively
avoid eaoh other. The mere encounter makes us
each feel low and paltry onoe more. And wo each
know it,
• • •
We are not distinctly oertaln that we ever
caught a sight of this fearful domeatio, but we
constructed for ouselves, as fanciful people are
apt to do, an imago of hor from hearing her voico.
And we can clearly oall to mind that this image
was a Gorgon. Yet she bad her good qualities,
She was honest, and, what is far more to toe point
in a oook, rigorously olean. She never asked to
play upon the piano, and had a Ihorror of police-
men. Besides, although her oooking might not
n R 7,? J?P) t 0 fi 1 ® standard that Soyer or
Brillat Savarln would have Insisted upon, yet it
was thorough and even 'artistio in a plain fiomely
way. 80 that her little weakness for whisky was
tolerated—more especially as It was impossible to
find a substitute that had not all the other vices
bar this one. Then, although she was always
abusing them, the other servants liked her. This
fact, as well as her voioe, helped us to our Gorgon
ideal of her appearance. Bhe was evidently so
ugly that they were not afraid of her as a rival
and a oook must be very ugly for this, for when-
ever she sets her cap at a gallant, the other domes-
tics, however fair they be, have generally to go to
the wall. There are few hearts beating beneath
either a blue ooat or a red that the keys of the
pantry will not open.
• • •
The lady who swayed the destinies-and
the carving-knife—of this curious establishment
was, as we have previously hinted, a nervous,
querulous old boul, whose tongue, when not ern-
ployed in peevish parley with her domestics, or
chaffering with the tradesmen who had the honour
to supply her with the modest materials of the
three d urnal meals upon which the boarders made
themselves as fat as they could, was engaged in
melanohoiy reflections upon her former greatness.
But this phase of character has been described
often enough. They are all alike, these landladies
of superior boarding-houses. They have ali seen
better days, and nobody who has had experience
of the class ever feels disposed to dispute the as-
sertion with them. It is patent that, personally,
they oould hardly have seen worse. In saying
this, we do not mean to be ill-natured. We know
that superior women are often reduced by circum-
stances to making a living in this manner. That
18 the fault of the age which allows women so few
chances for making their own way in the world,
and the fault of their education, which unfits
them for independent action, even if the chances
were offered. With this apology, we return to
our own particular (former) landlady. She always
dressed in black silk with bead trimmings, and
wore a lace cap with red ribbons on a somewhat
Btotlt bead. We have noticed, by the way, that
™ an 7 when they grow mature
*ii * a J nto (if so coarse a phrase may be
allowed n such a delicate conjunction), seem to
grow fuiler and flatter, as though they lost in
length to gain in breadth. We are not aware of
the cause of this, and have not asked any of them,
for obvious reasons. You remember the lines of
Browning:
“On her neok the small head buoyant,
Like a bell-flower on Its bed.”
Perhaps it is beoause this Is the way no more with
It torus to say. We are not yet an
old lady, though there is no knowing when we
may be; and have to keep a boarding-house, too.
If times go on as they are going now. But all this
is beside the question. Let us return. She was
very conservative, this old lady, like many other
old ladies who do not wear petticoats. Some of
the boarders were talking one day about the state
of Ireland. There was a general agreement that
the state of that country was not entirely satisfac-
tory, and that the English Government was for
the most part, to be blamed for it. This was too
much for the ancient dame. “There is always
something the matter with those people. I can’t
make it out,” she said, in a tone whioh revealed to
us that she associated, in some mysterious way of
fcerown, the unhappy condition of Ireland with
tee troubles she bad with the Irish oook In the
kitchen belew. “ What-alls them now ?’» she oon-
Umml In the same tone, evidently expecting to
heatthat the distress was because there wasa dearth
or landlords to shoot. "They are only starving',
n u a, v!' l ?’ r ®Pii*d a young Irish doctor (whom wo
shall be pleased to join in a glass of the wine of his
country whenever we meet him again, in spite of
what we said in a previous part of this article) who
sat opposite to us. "Well, why don’t they save
their money ? ” she asked, and looked as if this
was a clincher. But the doctor was ready with
is i!T p JF’ B P° ken very courteously, but with a
slight tinge of sarcasm in his voice, “ Because,
!? a ftF* they have no money to save.” “ Then whv
don t they work and earn It ? ” she said, trium-
phantly, as if that surely was a settler. Not it.
Doctor again at his guns: “ Because, tjiere is not
W j x e v noUfrh ,*° kee P them alive, let alone to pro-
vide them with money to save.!’ The .poor old
lady was at the end of her resources. She had no
more questions to ask, but we could see by the
look on her face that the Irish question had
ceased to be one of her topics of talk for ever
m p r ®- Yet, though fretful and a little feeble-
minded, the old lady had some use and purpose in
the world. Whenever we felt too tired, or too
lazy, or too ill to rise to breakfast, she would send
us up a cup of coffee—generously charged with
grounds—and her compliments, and hopes for our
Speedy recovery. We dared not mention the mat-
ter of rum-and-milk in such a respectable house-
hold, or we would have suggested that we would
occasionally, and merely as a change, prefer that
mixture to the compliments. We verily think if
we had done so, the poor old lady would have im-
mediately taken to her bed and died. But we did
not do so. We got a small keg of Jamaica in, and
stowed it in a cupboard which we always care-
fully locked before going out. We merely used to
downstairs for milk —which is a harmless
thing in itself—and did the mixing ourselves. The
advent of this keg was, for all that, the imme-
diate cause of our exodus from that superior
boarding-house. We happened one day, in a mo-
ment of more than ordinary weakness, to inadver-
tently remark to a prominent litterateur of our
acquaintance that we had some of the real spine-
shivering stuff at our rooms—and our further
residence in that temple of Gasterea (Savarin’s
tenth muse) was a matter of days. It was his
cheerful idiosyncrasy to arrive with the milkman
(with whom, we believe, he had an unhallowed
understanding), and come clatterihg up the stairs,
followed by a procession of dogs of various sorts
and sizes, spurning at the boots of the other
boarders on his way, and thunder at our door just
as we had fallen off into an exhausted slumber,
after a desperate but doubtful battle with
a peculiarly malignant and bloodthirsty kind of
mosquito which nourished in that neighbourhood.
We would rise up wearily and open the door
to find him standing on the threshold, his features
®et in a goblin grin, brandishing triumphantly a
TRACE A WAY THROUGH THIS MAZE, BEGINNING AT THE CIRCLE CONTAINING THE
EGG, AND THEN THROUGH THE OTHERS SUCCESSIVELY, REACHING AT LAST THE
MIDDLE CIRCLE. SOLUTION NEXT WEEK.
quart-pan of milk. The exertion of pointing l out to
him where the key of the locker was would be
enough for us, and we would crawl baok to bed
again. But this would not suit his impish humour.
We would have to get up and go out with him. It
would do us good, he would say. We were deaf to
this argument at first, but after two or three
beakers of his mixing, we would begin to be of his
way of thinking. We would rise, dress, and de-
Sart, dogs and all, clattering down the stairs again.
ur reckless friend was perfectly impervious to
the curses of the other boarders, whose sleep was
broken by this living avalanche. His troubles!
He didn’t live there. So we would sally forth to-
gether and insult the incense-breathing morn with
our malarious hiccups.
* * *
We were sorry in a way for leaving the
superior boarding-house. There were two or three
romanoes going on amongst the boarders—we
should have mentioned that there were ladies in
the establishment—just as we left. Also a few
days before our departure a squatter arrived from
the Clarence liiver. Had lived there forty years,
he said, and bad never bden down to Sydney be-
fore. Was going home to Europe now that he had
made a start. We expressed a polite envy of the
pleasures he had before him—Paris, Rome, Venice,
Florenoe—treasure-caskets of the rare and costly
things of the world—the s'ght of St. Peter’s—of
the great art-galleries—of the awful beauty of
Mont Blanc shining afar off like the great White
Throne—of lovely Leman haunted by the memo-
ries of the mighty dead—and of Vesuvius, terrible
and glorious, flashing its red defiance against the
heavens. He looked at us with a curiosity not un-
mixed with alarm as we were making these re-
marks. Then he replied slowly, “I don't want to
see none .of them things—l want to see the
short-horned cattle in Smithfleld market.”
This cultured old gentleman had a lamily
of tawny sons and daughters who were going
with him. ‘‘Look at that cove,” he said
pointing to a youth whom we should have
taken for a long-legged Chinaman, if we had met
him in the street. ‘‘Yes? ,” we said, after a
moment’s inspection of the young man. “ Well,
that cove can go through the bush likeab'ack-
fellow. No matter how he was lost he’d never
starve. Why, he was lost only last year in one of
the worst pieces of country all over the North.
We was out searchin’ for him for five days. At
last we came across him sittin’ as cool as you
please on a cedar-log euttin’ his nails. ‘And
how did you manage to live alt this time ?' one of
tbo search-party asked. ‘Live!’ he said—that boy
—‘why, I lived on grumbs—cut ’em out of
trees.’ And he hold up his tomahawk, and we
all laughed till we thought we should ’a died.”
We didn’t much regret the old gentleman when
yfe left, but there was one we did regret-a blessed
an?el from Queensland who had only been married
a month or two, and was being dragged off by her
ogre of a husband to a solitary sheep-station In
the heart of the howling wilderness, fifty miles
from Clermont. She may not have been altogether
the handsomest, but she was most certainly one of
the most charming fromen we have ever had the
good fortune to meet. We remember her appear-
anc® as clearly as though we had seen hei but
yesterday- The memory of a man is long and
taithtul where pretty women are concerned, how-
ever weak it may be on other subjects. Bhe was
something over the medium size, supple and slim
of body, fine-handed, and lissome-limbed alto-
gether, as a-ailor would say, she was built on beau-
tiful lines. Her eyes were of the colour of agate, in
the shade, but in the light one saw little veins of
green in tht in. 11 is impossible to describe the effect
tais strange combination of colours producedwhen-
ever she spoke with exoitement. Say that you
could see iay B of emerald fire shiver across and
shoot up through clear dark brown water, you
would have some idea of her eyes at such times.
Her hair was of a dark chestnut hue, with stray
locks of bright bronze feathering over her temples.
Her mouth—but, no more. It makes us hate our
kina to think that such sweet loveliness should be
buried in a desert. She looked forward with fear
to it herself. It was easy tdsee that, and we began
t° And ourselves thinking that it would be a
charitable and Christian thing to run away with
her. But—we ran away ourselves.
“THE POOR PLAYER.”
t Correspondence is invited from members of the
Theatrical Profession .]
We met him round the “ corner,” and
We passed into his outstretched hand
A “tanner.”
We said, “ You must these moments rue;
In better days we have known you,
And yet you carry on, ’tie true,
A banner.”
He sadly said, *• I am no dunce;
I was, in sooth, a bank-clerk once—
It is a fact;
Hut,” —here he heaved a deep-drawn sigh,
As he continued his reply—
“l must act.”
You are going to get it by the bushel. Mary
Anderson is appearing as Juliet at the Lyceum;
Anna M ; L. p otts is starting in Townsville ...And
listen. Mario Lanyon and her “talented com-
pany * —there is scill Duff in it—we mean there is
Stilling Duff, for which the company ought to be
truly thankful—have been hurling “Formosa” at
the Waggaites, causing confusion in that historic
township. Marie has got the funniest company
you ever saw or heard of. There is a Mr. Joe
Stark in it; there is a Miss Nita Franks in it;
there is a Mr. James Tbynne in it—whose presence
alone is sufficient to assure success-or death.
We wish they were all prosperous—or dead ; both,
several, either, or much ; together or jointly :
however you like it; t>ut in our sober moments, in
those moments when we, with a pathetic coun-
tenance, face the indignant lady in whose soul
alone is wrapped the mysteries of that awful con-
spiracy, an Irish stew, we wish they were not
dead, but mutilated Byrne, in the Figaro, says
that the first time he saw “ La Grande Duchesse,”
with Dupins as Fritz, was in ’67, in Paris. Well,
we don't know what Bobby Byrne oarried at this at
the VariAWs, but there is no “Dupins” performance
in it. There is however, a Dupuis; but there, never,
never—hardly e ver sell them—could have been a
Dupins—but this comes of one learning one s
French on the Arsmac Talking of the Aramao
reminds us that Wilson Barrett, who has made a
success in “Haml6t,” delivered the following
speech at the conclusion of the performance:—
" Ladies and gentlemen, I would much rather
not make a speech to-night. My heart is too full.
But I should line to tell you a little story. Five
and twenty years ago, a poor friendless lad, who
had paid his last sixpence to sit up in that gallery
and see Mr. Charles Kean, stood outside the theatre
and swore to himself that he would be the mana-
ger of the Princess’, and would play Hamlet there.
The boy kept his word. I was that boy, friendless
no longer, thanks to you and to hundreds like
you who hatm followed me with interest and sym-
pathy.” This, as Will Simpson used to say in that
glorious production, last year’s pantomime at the
Royal, is “ funny—very.” “Very, very funny! ”
And nothing will kill, it seems, Miss Alioe
Sydney Burvett, who is causing oonsternation with
“ English, Irish, Scotch. Spanish, Brazilian, and
operatio airs ” in Townsville. A new beetle-poi-
son is there being anxiously enquired after.. .And
John M'Cullough.so we hear, is lying in his room at
the Leland Hotel, Chicago, a physical and mental
wreck. Our troubles!.... But what truly interests
us is that a concert was given at Ross Island (N.Q.)
in aid of a pianoforte fund... And, from what we
read in the English papers, it seems that
George Darrell's “ Sunny (south,” at the Theatre
Royal, Islington, is a success, so far as the
Savage Club critics are concerned. But once the
Islingtonians catch hold of George unattended by
his suite, there will be gore upon the pavement
and moustaches in the gutter... Another disap-
pointment! Verdi isn’t dead, after all; and this
came upon us just as we were beginning to get
happy. But it didn’t surprise us. We knew he
couldn’t die. Nothing would kill Verdi but the
Boent of an over-blo wu rose, or too much lavender-
water on his pocket handkerchief.


T. M. ALCOCK,
PKiiCTICAL WATCHMAKEE,
MANUFACTURING JEWELLER and DIAMOND SETTER,
ea-UEMSE STREET, UTIUIQI, STDFET. —673.
Waltham Watch iracy,
UJ-i Mttfcr mnm
I^J 8 tlhiVerSally &dtbittod In Sydney that very
few houses anywhere in the colbnies can lay
Claim to the oredit for such energy and enterprise
as have distinguished the career of Mr. T. M. Al-
cock s well-known jewellery establishment at the
Haymarket, in this oity. Though situate slightly
outside the the centre of business in the great
metropolis, it has exoroised wide Influence, attrac
ing, like other grbat emporiums, people from a
Pfl-of the city &nd suburbs, and making itself
biatre of ball for all country visitors to Sydney who
hAht to see here all that can be seen in the higher
aKs. The correctness ef the old adage—a man
with strong lungs can be heard down a coal mine—
was never better verified than in the fact that the
thorough novelty and genuineness of Mr. T. M.
Alcock s diamond and gem goods, watohes, <fco.,
ni-e aa weil known ifi the most distaflt parts of the
interior as they are in sydheV. No announcement
has eVbr beten made by Mr. Aloock with respect to
pbw goods that has hot been solidly and conscien-
tiously supported by valid worth: and so it has
resulted that bo one in Bydney purchases anything
in the line of superior diamond Jewellery Without
first inspecting his splendid stock, while people
Who have ordered g'dbSs Oh the strength solely of
hIS press lAnuofinbements have not only been
thoroughly sails lied, but have become a souroe of
bontinbkl recommendation for his business. In
cydney personal inspection can be made, but
people at a distanoe have to rely on the advertiser
—a thing not often done with such costly article
as jewellery: and it is highly creditable to Mr
Alcock’s judgment in Belebtiob and straight-going
Style to find that his business per parcel post wita
the country ifl of the most promising and expanding
character. By these means of creating the hlghes
benudehoe all over the country, the whole popula
tiOh of the oolonies become constituents, just as 1
they passed his door and had their attention
attracted by the elegant display of the wonder
exhibited, the windows and show-oasss exhibiting
about the most expensive articles and the oostlles
collection of diamonds, precious stones, and fine
jewellery, watches. <fcc., to be seen anywhere in
this hemisphere. But though in this respeot Mr
Alcock has admittedly long been In the front rank
the arrangements he has been enabled to complete
with the great Waltham Watch Company, ana the
principal English Patent Lever Watoh Manufac-
turers, tend to give his establishment yet greater
Sromlnenee. While on his recent nine months
usinesstour in the United States and in England
Mr. Aloock personally Inspected the great Wal
tham Watoh Company’s Works, Massachusetts
and after several interviews with that famous pro
prietary he was enabled to conclude an arrange-
ment with them by means of whioh the whole
continent of Australia is embraced in their opera-
tions. Every description of genuine keyless Wal-
tham Watohes in gold or silver, guaranteed the
best timekeepers in the world, for lady or gentle-
man, is now easily procurable through Mr. Alcock
at exactly the same rate as they are procurable in
the locality of the great Waltham raotory. The
manufacturers made the concession to Mr. Alcocu
solely in the expectancy of a big business with al
Australia; and so to the residents of the most
distant part of Queensland or our own colony, as
to the citizens of the metropolis, a chance of
getting a genuine Waltham at the lowest possible
figure is now offering. Mr. Alcock was able to
mare a similar arrangement while in London with
the great English Patent Lever Watch Manufac-
turers of CJerken well—large lines of watches being
laid down here at manufacturers’ prices, so that
the popularity of the genuine English Lever is not
likely to decrease for want of concessions on the
part of the manufacturers. Mr. Aloock, who Is a
flrst-claes mechanician, personally Inspects and
regulates each watoh before it leaves his hands,
and gives a five years’ guarantee of excellence.
Samples of these watches (Waltham and Levers)
are now on view in the window—on a revolving
pedestal whioh exhibits just upon £3OOO worth.
The showcases display a no lees attractive stock of
English and colonial sterling gold and diamond
jewellery, hundreds of articles in which collection
are now shown for the very first time in the
colonies. The most important announcement
eomes in here—by way of postoript, as it were: All
goods, whether jewellery or watches, will, on
receipt of post-office money-order, be forwarded
to any part of Australia, per parcel post, free, and
at Mr. Alcock’s own risk. By these means, dis-
tance, however great, is entirely bridged, and the
enterprise of one .man benefits a whole people.—
Sydney Bulletin.
SUPERIOR CHRONOGRAPHS.
T. M. ALCOCK is now in a position to offer to
the public generally the Cheapest and Best
CHRONOGRAPH for racing and timing purposes
ever made. To meet ail clarses, he has these
watches manufactured by Swiss and English
makers; but quality in both cases is studied before
price, as witn this kind of goods exactitude of
performance is absolutely necessary.
English Hunting 18-carat Gold Keyless Chrono-
graph, fly back seconds hand, marking 5 1-lOths of
a second. This is a very superior finished full
jewelled compensated movement. A reliable
time-keeper and accurate performer.
No. 1. Engine-tuined and plain cases, £35.
No. 2. ditto superior finished, £3O.
No. 3. Extra jewelled and heavy cases, £35. Same
grade of movements in sterling silver cases.
No. 4. Sound and serviceable movement, £l5.
No. 5. Best value Chronograph in the world, £lO
IDs.
No. 6. Chronograph Chronascope, marking 5-10ths
of a second, also marking the minutes from time
of starting. Both hands fly back. N.B. —This is a
most valuable timer. In hunting cases. £10108.;
in open face, crystal glass, gold winders, £7 7s.
No. 7. Double dial Chronograph, crystal glasses,
gold windef, full jewelled, £6 os.
No. 8. Ditto. A sound time-keeper, £5 ss.
The Celebrated Waltham Chronographs, in
standard 18-carat gold cases. No. 1, 25 guineas
In sterling silver, bunting or open face, with
crystal glass cases, gold wiaders, 12 guineas.
Nicole Neilsen’s Waltham Spllt-seoond Chrono-
graphs and Repeaters. Dead-beat Chronographs,
for medioal men.
Presentation Watches, in ladies’and gent’s fancy
cases, up to 100 guineas.
lIIPOETEE or"
Highclass Gold and Silver
CHRONOGRAPHS & WATCHES,
Of English, Waltham, and Swiss Manufacture.
Standard Gold and Silver Jewellery*
AND NOVELTIES IN THE TRADE.
Diamond*, all silies, of Pure Water, Powerful Field Glasses, Electro-plate Opera
Glasses, Office Clocks, French Marble Clocks, Old English Striking Clocks, with eight
bells and Cambridge Chimes, in Ebony Cases, Jet Goods, etc.
!OS
pm*
£2
b>
TA
712 T
5
*
'ii, ”1
■ :■
TM. ALCOCK respectfully solicits inspection of Magnificent Stock of New Goods
• specially made to his order for Christmas and New Year Season.
He feels sure that a visit to his establishment will cause both pleasure and astonish,
mQ at—the one by the superb workmanship and choice appearance of the display of
watches and jewellery presented for inspection, and the other by the prices at which the
goo Is are offered.
He has spared no pains to successfully cater for the tastes of all classes, and this asser-
tion will be fully borne out by an examination of the magnificent stock of diamond
work of all kinds, aud earrings, brooches, bracelets, necklets, chains, chatelaines, etc., etc.,
in gold and silver, and of such a collection of watches as. may be asserted with confidence,
has never been exhibited in the City of Sydney, comprising as it dots, the gold keyless
minute repeating Chronograph of the millionaire, to the simple silver Watch of the lad of
twelve.
The Workshops attached to the Establishment are occupied by skilled artificers, all working
under the personal supervision of T. M. Alcock, so that all repairs will receive the greatest care and
attention, as usual.
THOUSANDS IN ALL GRADEB TO SELECT
FROM AT MANUFACTURERS* PRICES.
MR. ALCOCK trives a Three Tears’ Guarantee
with every Waltham Watch, and, in addition
to this, issues with each watch Bola the Company’s
Certificate, as follows “ Watch, No. , and en-
graved with our Trade Mark, was manufactured
at our works, and is guaranteed by us to be made
' of the best materials on the most approved prin-
ciples, and to possess every requisite for a reliable
Timekeeper.
“For any defeot in material, workmanship, or
performance under fair usage, we at all times hold
ourselves responsible.
“General Agents: ROBBINS and APPLETON.
“For the American Watch Co.: R. ROBBINB,
Treasurer.
T. M. ALCOCK, Agent,
673 George-street, Haymarket, Sydney.”
Gent’s Silver Waltham Watches f
In Hunting or Open Face, with Crystal Glass,
Sterling Hall-marked Cases.
KEY WINDERS.
No. I.—Seven Jewels, steel balance. A
sound, reliable timekeeper .. .. £2 in 0
No 2.—■ even Jewels, steel balance.
Extra heavy, full size cases, spe-
cially built for bush use .. .. 810 0
No B.—•even Jewels, gold balance.
Very superior finish. Perfect
timekeeper 3 5 0
No. 4.—Full Jewelled, compensation
balance. Very highly finished;
suitable for extreme climates .. 315 fi
No. s.—Compensation balance, extra
Jewcued In separate settings;
very superior movements .. ..440
No. fl.—'Three-quarter plate bands, to
set at back, gold balance,
seven jewels 3 6
No. 7>— Tlirce-quarter plate, compen>
sation balance, full Jewelled.
Specially rated 4 0 q
PATENT KEYLESS.
No. B.—Celebrated Riverside adjusted key-
less, fine movements, 3 pair extra fine jewels m
setting, exposed palletts, compensation balance, in
silver cases, 7 guineas; in massive gold cases, IS
guineas. Note.—Read Swiss Commissioner’s speech
re this watch, and if you are In want of a perfect
timekeeper, buy one at manufacturers price of the
agents.
No. 9.—Celebrajid Hillside, seven Jewels*
compensation Very highly finished*
and perfect timekeeper, £4 15s.
No. IV.—Full sized extra stout eases, com*
pensatlon balance. I'u Jewelled. This move-
ment is specially built for hard usage, and is a
perfectly reliable timekeeper. In two prices, £t¥
ss. and £5 10s.
No. 11.-Full sized. 3 pairs of extra fine
•ewels, in settings. Adjusted. This is a very-
superior movement. £7 7s.
No. 12 -Named “ P. •. Bartlett,” Waltham,
Bass., four nairs extra tine Jewels, in set-
tings, compensation balance. This watch Is the
acme of perfection. Jt7 7s.
No. 13.—Ladles’ verr superior, full Jew-
elled, compensation balance. Engraved cases.
£4 10s.
Ladies' & Gent's Gold Wa/thams f
In Hunting or Open Fac’, with Cryital Glass,
Standard Hali-marked Gold Cases,
of various grades—
£B 8 0 £ll 11 0 £l7 10 0
0 0 0 14 0 0 20 0 0
10 10 0 15 15 0 up to 75 0 0
A magnificent stock of every grade of Watoh
made by the Waltham Company, including a rich
collection of Presentation Watches, in plain and
lancy CDgraved cases.
Duplicate parts of everv watch made by tbs
Company kept in stock. Waltham Watches re-
paired with the Company’s materials.
The English Patent Lever Watches also
compete in all Australia.
Recognising the value of the better class of
English Patent Lever Watches, T. M. Alcock,
while in England, visited the great watch factories
of London, and entering into large contracts
arranged for the manu'aoture of a special and
superior claes of English Patent Lever watch, the
BEoT and cheapest ever imported to Australia.
No. I.—Crystal Glass or Hunting Case ... £3 10
No. 2.—Ditto, extra jewelled and superior
finish.. 440
No. 3 —Ditto, highest grade, full jewelled 5 5
No. 4.—Ditto, ditto, superior adjusted ... 6
No. s.—Rotherham’s Celebrated Levers ... 4 10
No. 6.—Rotherham's Compensated Balance 5 5®
No. 7.—Rotherham's Chronometer Balance,
hignest quality 6
No. B.—Rotherham’s Adjusted, compen-
sated balance, very superior ..77#
An unequalled stock of the above in 18-cara
gold cases, from £l3 to £3O; in keyless, £2O ta £5O.
Illustrated Catalogues forwarded free.
All communications to be addressed
T. M. ALCOCK,
Walt ham Watch Agent
673 George Street, Hav market; SjjUi'ey.


GENTLE, BUT EFFICACIOUS.
Wyndham-street, Alexandria, Sydney, Feb. 14,1884.
Gentlemen,—l beg to inform you that I have
used Emil Frese’s Hamburg Tea in my household
with good results. My children have taken it as
an aperient, and its action has been gentle but
efficacious.
Yours faithfully,
Joseph Lingard,
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
HAMBURG TEA.
VERDICT OF A POPULAR BONIFACE.
I have tried Hamburg Tea, and my household
have proved it to be gentle but efficacious as an
aperient, and I can strongly recommend it.
G. A. BROWN,
Exchange Hotel,
West Maitland.
F crnituei bhow boom
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell and Spring streets, Bydney.
Tj l %m^o fUl i^ TlJßE - CENTRE and SIDB
IMg&S
StJtTBS, In EXQUISITE
e ’ y> e very latest fash i Gn : well worthy of
inspection, Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
UfALL CA BIN'ETS for Choice Oh inn,
LaS GANT,3UBtreoelYed '
flmoklng rooms, Ac. m
BE? r OOM SUITES complete in various woods,
and very handsome designs, with 7-feei
mnm r a ° be n or with smaller wardrobes for single
unV*, v arlety. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB, Spring and O’Connell streets, Sydney.
ln] I^?!' P 0 BEDROOM SUITES-The
Economic Bedroom Suite, comprising’ ward-
robe, chest drawers, washstand, dressing table and
xr l Sw^SxT twe J C T^ The lot for £B. BRADLEY
NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
EDROOM SUITES (Fashionable Early English
Designs).—WARDROBE, 4ft., with silvered
?^ a i e ;K a8 K d ° Gr; WASHSTAND, with marble top
and tile back and Towel rail; TOILET TABLE.
T .^ ing ' Eiass attached ; PEDESTAL CTJPI
BOARD, and 2 CANE SEAT CHAIRS, 16 guinens.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
CBBAP
6d.; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
iJressers, from 275. 6d.; Washstands from 12s. 6d.:
Chest of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from 80s.
Cedar Chiffoniers, from 305.; Cedar Sideboards,
from £3105.; Clothes Horses, from 10s. 6d.; Writing
Tables, with Drawers, from 50s. BRADLEY
NEWTON, & LAMB, Spring and OConnell streets
111-V
J
U
i?QK PIANOFORTE, guaranteed sound
cwOW Strong, and durable, Trichord full
Compass Celeste Pedal, brilliant tone, in handsome
Black and Gold Case. Free at rail or wharves for
cash only. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb..
OVERMANTEL MIRRORS, Handsome Fashion-
able designs in Black and Gold, with Side
®*}®ives; also in Oak and Walnut, at all prices.
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
OCCASIONAL TABLES, elegantly finished In
Tapestry, Embroidery, Plush, &c.
jpIHIfFONNrER WHATNOTS, effective designs,
just received. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb,
OTJonnell-street.
NAMELLED and JEWELLED MIRRORS, for
Wall and Table Jardinieres, with flowers
forming Summer Screens for flro grates. Very
elegant. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB,
O Connell-Btreet.
~n R A/WING-ROOM OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—
XJ A GREAT VARIETY of NEW STYLEB.
Prices, from 12s 6d. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
HAIR BED STEADS, forming CHAIR,
LOUNGE, or BED. Very handy and inex-
penslve. Bradley, Newton, & Lamb, O’Connell-st.
TOILET PAIRS, namely, DRESSING-TABLE,
with swing GLASS and WASHSTAND,
marble top, 80s the pair.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE,
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS, CARVI
ING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS, all to
match, on view at Show Rooms, O’Counell-street.
,INING TABLES, with patent extending
screw, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR—
Patented.
D
S
-^•.r
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice vena, at the will of
the occupant. It la simple, yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained, instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. It is superior
to anything yet invented for the lawn, verandah,
camp, sea-shore, or wherever comfort is desired.
The frames are of the best Eastern ash—strong,
durable, and light, weighing only ten pounds com-
plete, and occupying only four inches in thickness
when t( ided. Price 30s. BRADLEY, NEWTON
and LAMB (only). Packing in canvas, If required,
2s, 6d. extra.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable. Various
Sizes. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB^
Framework for drawing-room suites
and OCCASIONAL CHAIRS.—A very exten-
sive assortment in Chippendale, Early English,
and other designs, which can be upholstered in
any materials to meet the taste and requirements
of buyers. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
Framework for dining-room furni-
ture, Handsome and Massive, in Oak,
Walnut, and Mahogany. THE VERY BEST REAL
MOROCCO SKINS and Materials for Upholstery.
Open to Inspection. BRADLEY, NEWTON, and
LAMB, Spring and O’Connell-streets.
BEDSTEADS, nickel-plated and black andbrass;
new shipments. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDSTEADS, all kinds and sizes, at lowest
prices. Bradley, Newton, and Lamb.
BEDDING.— All descriptions at lowest rates.
BRADLEY. NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Con-
nell and Spring streets.
WASHSTANDS, with marble, from 265. each
BRADLEY, NEWTON, and LAMB.
GARDEN SEATS, 20s: Verandah Chairs,
INDIAN LONG-ARM LOUNGES. BRAD
LEY, NEWTON, and LAMB, O’Connell-street.
BENTWOOD FURNITURE.—a very eompletr
Assortment; best make, low est prices.
This is a fairish sample of the style one of
our old “ books ” spread the marmalade at a din-
ner-table during the Wagga meet:—“ Waitah, let’s
hev a bottle of your, ah, best wine. Some of—3
‘ The Rhine’s breast milk, gushing cold and bright;
Pale as the moon, and maddening as her light.’ ”
This took well with the now respectful guests,
and the bottle having been carefully surrounded
by the penoiller and his friends, the layer of odds
observed: “ Waitah, that wine was good. What do
you call it ?” And, being a newly-imported son of
Gaul, the plate jostier replied: “Zatwine, sare is
exquia.” “ Exskey, is it,” exclaimed the “ book
“ well, bring us two more bottles of Exskey, an’
look dem smart about it.”
Distrust your doctor after this if he forbids
you to drink wine. At a late medioal dinner in
Copenhagen 1200 doctors drank 4000 bottles Of
assorted wine, besides other liquors in vast quanti-
ties. If wine is such an unwholesome thing, how
is this appalling consumption to be accounted for?
What is sport to the doctor surely cannot always
be death to the patient. For our own part, when-
ever we fall ill again—which we expect to do after
Christmas, as usual—we shall go to lodge on the
floor above a wine-merchant’s cellar, and have,
by arrangement with the proprietor, pipes con-
ducted through the floor of our room from a cask
of every kind of wine kept below. No more toast-
and-water and soup mature for us 1
CHRISTMAS CAROL
Wm. E. Ashmall.
The editor of the Riverine Grazier says
that we are doing "vast injury to the rising
generation.” If teaching them to think is doing
them an injury, we admit the impeaohment with
a smile. And, what is more, we shall go on doing
them this injury, and shall still be going on long
after this mouldy gentleman, and scores of his
kind, have crawled into their coiHns. When we
have finished with the rising generation, there will
be little room for these sham editors—except in a
gravel-pit or a stone-quarry. He says we have
not a gleam of wit or humour, and wo dare say he
honestly thinks so. But there must be two parties
to a joke—one to make it, the other to see it. We
are sadly afraid he is neither. Never mind, we
can afford to be good-tempered,
Half a pound of black-pudding. There is
a savoury sentence for you. Well, this was the
reward given to a boy in Hobart, a week or two
ago, who found a purse containing £2OO and re-
stored it to its owner—a generous person, whose
name, we regret to say, is not mentioned. The
local papers sneer at him for what they call the
meanness of the reward. We know what that
means. Perhaps our readers do not. Well, it
means envy on the part of the reporters. Give
them half-a-pound of black-pudding and—ah!—
where would it be ? Ask of the winds that blow
around. Yos, we consider the boy was magnifl.
oently rewarded. Look at it this way. 1. Either
the boy did not keep the purse because he was
afraid of the polioe, as the money may have been
in notes. 2. Or perhaps ho knew that if he
brought it home, his father would take it and
lick him on the suspicion of having spent some of
the coin. 3. Or perhaps he could not open the
purse, and thought it might be a trick-purge with
a spring bull-dog inside. 4. Or perhaps he was just
playing honest to see how much he would get.
5. Or perhaps the whole story is a George Wash-
ington. Anyway, we consider the reward was
ample. The owner evidently argued after this
fashion. 1. It is the nature of boys to be fond of
blaok-pudding. 2. The finder of the purse is a
boy. 3. Therefore he is fond of black pudding.
Prom this of course followed the syllogism:—!.
A moderate amount of blaok-pudding should
satisfy any boy. 2. Half a pound of black-pudding
is a moderate amount. 3. Therefore half a pound
of black-pudding must satisfy this boy. The only
flaw about the r easoning of the prodigal proprie-
tor of the purse is that he took it for granted boys
thought only of black-puddings. He seemed to
believe that if the particular boy who found bis
purse had kept it, he (the boy) would have spent
the whole of the contents in black-puddings. But
these little errors of logic are easily forgiven in
amiable minds. And no doubt the account is
squared by this time, as the boy in all probability
went round that night with a barrowful of blue'
metal and smashed all hig benefactor’s windows.
We rejoice to say that we have found one
man whom we can safely delight to honour. He
is an original in this age of sameness. People have
often made the assertion in print that letter-
writing is a lost art. It is nothing of the kind.
The gentleman whom we shall have the pleasure
of introducing to you is a resident of Coonamble,
and his name is Robert Risk. We will pause here
a moment, while you exhaust all the possibilities
of punning on it. We gave that habit up when
we gave up smoking cigarettes and making love
to barmaids. Are you ready ? Yes ?; Right. Well,
then read this letter from Mr. Risk to the council
clerk of Coonamble, and tell,’us where Horace Wal-
pole would have been in competition with the
writer November 10, 1884. I requested your
permision to grant me two gettaways |on the
front off Namoi-street two months ago. I have
only one in the centre, it’s no use to me and has
only been used three times. Please grant me two
gettaways, one for each house that is all I ever
shall require ; one is a baker, the other a drover,
and they have Spring Carts, and of Course wants
them at their door You know them bouth for
the last twenty years, So I hope to get your grant
off Permission for two geet ways, on Namoi-
street and the same will oblige yours Robert
Risk Conamble.” Have you ever seen Addi-
sonian elegance combined with Chester-
fleldian dignity in such a form before ?
Hardly. But this is nothing to what loilows
“ Nov 25th .1884 To the Mayor Sir, the ratepayers
and inhabitants of the town are highly Indignant
at the Conduct of the alderman In your absence
for prosecuting any good and Respectable rate
payer/and I consider the dignity of a Alderman,
ought to be above interferring with a mans dogs
house or fouls house or two sheets of Bark on four
posts, over a Are this hott weather Such Tryany.
makes a very little of a man. lam Superior Born,
and above doing, a mean low action and would,
nott tolerate Such Conduct if I wa3 Alderman and
had the power to punish for a hours labour of any
rate payer When a man is man ack has a man
When a Boy ack has Boy. When a child ack has a
child I remain yours Robebt Risk, Esq.” Any-
one who can read the above without admiration
must be dead to all the finer feelings which make a
man a little higher than the quadrumana. The
sentiments are lofty, the logic fine, tne rhetoric
superb, the orthography original, and the gram-
matical construction free and unfettered. If it
were not for the concluding maxims, we should
say it could have been penned only by Cicero—or
Dan O’Connor. The maxims, though, are worthy
of Solomon. It is not necessary to specify which
Solomon. And the manly assertion of personal
dignity in the appending of Esquire to his name
marks out Mr. Robert Risk as a man who will one
day do something famous—perhaps kill a police-
man. In the meantime, we remain his very
humble and far-off admirers.
The Adelaide Observer has some doubt
about tae Patawalonga Creek being dammed. But
there’s no dubiety in the paper about what will
happen to Gerald Massey.


VALUABLE TRUTHS.
“ If you are suffering from poor health
‘or languishing on a bed of sickness,
‘takeeheer, for
Hop Bitters will core yon.
“ If you are simply ailing, if you feel
‘weak and dispirited, without clearly
'knowing why,
Hop Bitters will Revive you.
“ If you are a Minister, and have over-
‘ taxed yourself with your pastoral
' duties, or a Mother worn out with care
‘ and work,
Hop Bitters will Restore you.
“If you are a man of business or
‘labourer weakened by the strain of
‘your every-day duties, or a man of let-
ters, toiling over your midnight work,
Hop Bitters will Strenghten you.
“ If you are suffering from over eating
‘ordrinking, any indiscretion or dissi-
* pation, or are young and growing too
' fast, as is often the case,
Hop Bitters will relieve you.
“If you are in the workshop, on the
farm, at the desk, anywhere, and feel
‘ that your system needs cleansing, ton-
* ing, or stimulating, without inttoxicat-
‘ing
Hop Bitters is what you need.
“If you are old, and yeur blood thin
and impure, pulse feeble, your nerves
'unsteady, and your faculties waning,
Hop Bitters will give you new Life
and Vigour.
“ HOP BITTERS is an elegant, heal-
‘ thy, and refreshing flavouring for sick-
* room drinks : impure water, etc., ren-
‘ dering them harmless, and sweetening
' the mouth, and cleansing the stomach.”
Cleanse, Purify and Enrich the
Blood with
Hop Bitters,
And you will have no siokness or suffering or doc-
tors’ bills to pay.
HOP BITTERS
is an Elegant, Pleasant, and Refreshing Flavouring
for sick-room drinks and Impure Water, rendering
them harmless, sweetening the mouth, and cleans-
ing the stomach.
WeakNervousMen
*
m
Whose debility, exhausted
P®W_ers, premature decay
and failure to perform life's
duties properly are caused by
excesses errors of youth, etc.,
will find s perfect ftnd lasting
restore! inn to robust health
andjrlxorous manhood in
themarston BOLUS.
atoms ch drugging nor
instruments. This treatment of
Nervous Debility and
Physical Decay isuniformly
lrect Methods •nd^a^lnte^th'op.'
onarhneu. Fall information and Treatise free.
Address Consulting Physician of
MARSTON REMEDY CO.. 62Cutlemgli St., Sydney
Christmas Presents and New
Year’s Gifts!
J - UST RECEIVED, a Large Assortment of
Gold & Silver Jewellery,
SUITABLE FOR PRESENTS.
Ladles’ Gold Dress Rings, from 10s.
Ladles’ Silver Watches, from £2 los.
Gent.’s Silver Watches, from £3 10s.
And other articles too numerous to mention.
0 . gTa nt ,
WATCHMAKER AND JEWELLER.
584 George Street, Sydney.
IST" Country Orders promptly attented to.
SANTA CLAUS’ HEAD QUARTERS.
ness
U
/T
%
Or
For
ihe
I
On/y
i
One
iddr
ED
fi? O'S (LIE
■JSfO
Only
One
T
3?
irii
(/dress
o
alia
USD
r
//on
T
T®Kl
S
•«
&
%
Are you going to Bourke ?
Yes; and I am going to stay at the TURF
HOTEL, which is now kept by
Ned. Warmoll.
TAGS THOIIPSOIT,
A.J.C. CIGAR DIVAN AND HAIR-DRESSING SALOON,
91 IZixig-street.
N. 8.—1 ALWAYB BACK THE FIELD.
ROYAL HOTEL
BOURKE,
la the largest and best-appointed Family Hotel in the Wostern District. The Table and Liquors
cannot be surpassed, even In the Metropolis. Private Buites for familios. First-class Stabling.
THOMAS HUGGINS, Proprietor.
EVERYBODY KNOWS
Everybody knows that Boyd's New Palace of Art is
over Paling’s, 354 and 356 GEORGE STREET.
Everybody should know that the above is Boyd’s only Studio.
Everybody knows the Very Superior Finish of all Boyd’s work.
Everybody knows that the best assistance only is employed.
Everybody should know that Boyd’s Gallery and Rooms are the Grandest in Australia.—
Everybody is invited to inspeot the Establishment. "
Everybody is informed that this Studio is carried on for the benefit of the late Mr
Boyd’s children, by his executrix.
Everybody should remember the address :
Boyd’s New Palace of Art, 354 and 356 George-street, Sydney.
ALFRED WILLIAMS, Manages.
mmm
it*..., «»* V V
9
7®**
•R*
DR. SCOTT’S ELECTRIC HAIR
BRUSH!
A HONEST REMEDY. Prescribed bv the BEST PHYSICIANS.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY
CURE
IfervousHeadache in 5 minutes!!
Bilious Headache in 5 minutes!!
Neuralgia in 5 Minutes!!
Falling Hair and Baldness!!
Dandruff and Diseases of the Scalp!
Promptly Arrest Premature Grayness. Make the Hair grow long
and Glossy. Immediately Soothe the Weary Srain.
No. 1 Hair Brush .. ss. 01.
No. 2 Hair Brush .. 7s. 31,
No, 3 Hair Brush .. 9s. 61.
No. 4 Hair Brush .. 11s. 61,
No. 6 Hair Brush .. 13s, 61.
Their Royal Highnesses the PRINCE and PRINCESS of WALES, PRINCE
BISMARCK, and the KING- of HOLLAND each use a pair of Dr. Scott's
Electric Hair Brushes, and a long list of Distinguished Patrons could be pub-
lished, and their Testimony added, did space permit.
of a new odorless competition, resembling ebony: a combination
permanent electro-magnetic Current, which acts
Hair Glands and Follicles. This power oan always be
vhich accompanies each Brush.
PURE BRISTLES—NOT WIRES. Wire Brushes injure the Scalp,
and cause baldness and irritation.
The Right Honourable WILLIAM E. GLADSTONE, M.P.,
has written upon the merits of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair
Brushes, and has added them to his Toilet-
Lady A. CHURCHILL-daughter of the Duke of
Marlborough (hero of Blenheim), and sister of
Lord Randolph Chuichill, of Parlia-
mentary celebrity—uses them regularly
and thinks them unequalled for
the hair. —L
£3T Send for Circular of
Dr. Scott’s Electric Flesh
Brushes , Corsets, <b Belts
for Ladies’ and Gen-
tlemen's use.
The Brush Handle is made
of substances producing a
immediately upon tne
tested by a silver compass, v
Crewkeme, Nov. 12,1880.
Sir, —My patients have given
me a very satisfactory account
of Dr. Scott’s Electric Hair Brush.
One lady assures me that she gets no
neuralgia in her face if she uses it, and
others state that by a few minutes' brush-
ing with the Electric Brush, a nervous headache,
or one arising from overwork or debility, is quickly
removed. The invention is, I think, very valuable.
I am, your obedient servant, q. p. Wills, M.D., M.R.C.S.E.
A Handsome
Unbreakable BRUSH,
Elegantly Carved & Mounted-
Dec. 23, 1881.
Prom Dr. Lekprihrb, D.0.L., Ac., St. John's College, Oxford.
Gentlemen,—l have known and appreciated the great advantages of your Electric Hair Brush for some time, and, as I find the benefits increasing,
I feel it my duty, as well as my pleasure, to earnestly recommend it. No oue who has not tried it can possibly imagine how material its comfort is,
Your Flesh Brush is only one more proof of the enormous future open to the scientific development of useful and beneficial domestic appliances. The
Brushes are indeed a wonder, and well worth the money. Yours faithfully, C. Lbmpriere, D.C.L., &c.
There Brushes oan be obtained of all Chemiata and Fan or Starakooperajor will be forwarded
none are (femiine.
PILL MILL ELECTRIC ISSOCIITION,
64. MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
P.O. BOX 22!.
According to “ Cocaigne,” a London cor-
respondent of the ’Frisco Argonaut, Albert Ed-
ward the Middling, although very fond of ladies,
‘s not over amiable when assailed with feminine
chaff, and does not succeed In making himself a
favourite with every sort of lady. The Countess
15f Dudley, for example, so little appreciated his
dhsirb to establish & close friendship that when-
ever she meets him in society She pointedly turns
her back upon him, and is at no pains to disguise
her scorn. The new beauty, also, Mrs. Cayley,
wife of an officer in the Guards, and who was a
Miss Chappel, daughter of Chappel the music-
seller, when she had the honour to uncon-
sHiouSlF attraet the Prince's admiration, and
to receive, through ofab of his suite, the intima-
tion that His Royal Highness would be gratified
to make Miss Chappel's acquaintance, burst
into a passion of indignant tears, and imme-
diately implored her parents to take hor awsy
into the country. Of the same lady “ Cocaigne ”
narrates that at the ball given at Portsmouth the
other day by Admiral Hornby to the Philadelphian
crioketers, she was greatly admired, and the King
or Sweden was so pronounced in his attentions
that she got away from him as soon as she could,
and went back to the society of less pretentious
and more intimate friends with a smile of relief.
Royalty clearly has no charms for her. Mrs.
Powell, another “ Prince’s beauty,” on the other
hand lost her grip by too keen a sense of the dis-
tinction of the Prince’s friendship. Flattered
beyond herself by the attention she had already
attracted from the Prince of Wales, she must go
and follow him over to Cannes. Now, the Prince
is a man who prefers to seek rather than to be
sought. With all his admiration for pretty women,
the slightest attempt at forcing an acquaintance
or a familiarity will be resented by him in the
most marked manner. He likes to follow up a
friendship in his own fashion and at his princely
ease. The result was that he left Mrs. Powell
severely alone, and has continued to do so. Miss
Chamberlaine, the American beauty who attained
celebrity owing to the marked attention paid to
her by the Prince, lost her grip by her own indis-
cretion. She seemed to think that, all things con-
sidered, she might venture on some little fami-
liarities with him. Seated next to him at supper
at a ball at Mentone, she said, in the merest fun,
“Jumbo, you eat too much.” But that was
enough. Only the moment before on terms of
that familiar intimacy which any man might be
glad to be with a young and pretty girl, he turned
his shoulder to her without reply, and from that
moment, so far as he was concerned, the famous
Miss Chamberlaine was incontinently “ dropped.”
“Cocaigne” is very savage about this, and roundly
declares:—“l must say—and so will most men, I
take it—that his treatment of her, after en-
couraging her and flirting with her in the way
he did, for months and months, was utterly dis-
gusting. . . It is a shame that any one man
should have such power, and a greater shame
that he should so boorishly exercise it." We
can’t see this. Miss Chamberlaine appears sim-
ply to have given the Prince an eye-opening les-
son that a very beautiful woman may be a coarsely
vulgar one. Much depends, of course, on the
degree of familiarity the Prince had permitted
himself with her. Another instance of Albert
Edward’s alleged rude manner to women from
whom he had nothing to desire or to expect iff
narrated by “ Cocaigne.” The other night ne was
talking to Lady Romney at a ball. “ I hear, Lady
Romney,” he said, “that Lord Romney has a nick-
name. What is it?” Instead of replying, Lidy
Romney said : “Sir”—every one addresses the
prince, Sir—“ Sir, I hear that you are called
‘ Tummy.’ Is it true ? ” Without a word, 1m
turned with a scowl and walked away, heedless 0f
the attention his rude behaviour attracted to h*r.
“ Cocaigne ” thinks he really.had only himself to
blame, for he had no right to speak of a husband
to his wife in a way that he would not allow him-
self to be spoken to by the wife. Of course we all
know that these yarns are Yankee lies. The
liberties these American papers permit themselves
when writing about our Royal family are deplor-
able, and only need attention to be called to them
to have them peremptorily put a stop to, even if
we have to send over the Duke of Con-
naught with an army, which he would lead
from the rear, as he did our gallant soldiers at
Tel-el-Kebir, to put down the rebellion in America.
Every right-thinking person knows that the
Prince of Wal&s is marital fidelity itself, and never
committed himself with Lady Mordaunt or Mrs.
Langtry, or any of the other ladies people are so
fond ot associating with his name. Why it is well
known that H. R. Highness swore in the witness-
box that with respect to Lady Mordaunt, he was
as innocent as the babe unborn, and for our own
part we always believed in the truth of that oath
as implicity as we do in the veracity of Jimmy
Powell when he swote manfully that Sir Henry
Parkes never forged his name. The Prinoe of
Wales, we repeat with loyal indignation, is as pure
as ah, as the late martyred Czar of Russia, as
Pious Kaiser William of Prussia, as Franz Josef
of Austria, as King Alfonso of Spain, or the late
revered Victor Emmanuel of Italy. We don't be-
lieve ourselves that the Heir-Apparent ever for-
got himself so far as to attend choir practice or to
go to a Sunday-school picnic.


Mashers— The beet and lightest are made by
Offord, Hatter, 653 George-street, Brickfield Hill.*
Marshall Bhothebs have completed ar-
rangements to supply a full set of Artificial Teeth,
upper and lower, at the enormously reduced price
of £5, perfect fit and quality guaranteed. Pain-
less extraction by Nitrous Oxide Gas. Please note
address—MARSHALL BROS , Dentists, 104 and 106
Market-street, near Hyde Park, Sydney.*
John T. Molnneb and Co., Commission
Merchants and Pastoral Agents, Gladstone Cham-
bers, 90 PiTT-STREET, Sydney. Agents for
the purchase of Pastoral Plant, Squatting Supplies,
Harvesting Machinery, Agricultural Implements,
Saw Mill Plant. &o. No commission charged for
buying. S3T" Agents for the sale or purchase os
commission of Pure-bred Stnok •
Mb. DeCoobot Browne (late Deputy
Chairman of the Mining Board of New Bouth
Wales), Author of the “ Miners’ Handy Book,”
“Mining Leaseholders’ Guide,” and “Manual of
Minerals,” Mining Expert, Adviser, and Land and
Mining Titles Agent, may be consulted on every
description of Land and Mining business person-
ally, or by letter, at Beresford Chambers, 63 Castle-
reagh-Btreet, Sydney, ear Mining a well
proven speciality, J3r" Land Titles, Mr. Browne’s
skill, a matter of record in the Departments and
Supreme Court.*
TIE POPULAR BRAID
BRIAN BORU
T^TOTE.—YOUNG, KING, and CO. (sole proprie-
tors of BRIAN BORU WHISKY), have
NEVER EXHIBITED THEIR WHISKIES
and therefore cannot boast of sold medals, &c.
Brian Boru
Whisky
Is guaranteed
SEVEN YEARS OLD,
PURE, MELLOW, and WHOLESOME.
when matured by age, is
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION
of tho
OFFICERS OF H.M. CUSTOMS.
SOLE AGENT,
JAMES YOUNG,
7 A 9 Change Alley,
SYDNEY.
CHRISTMAS 1884.
C. W. ROBERTS’
Single Bottle Department.
KRUG’S CELEBRATED CHAMPAGNE,
Large Bottle, only !)s.
Small Bottle, , Is. Bd.
PORT AND SHERRY WINES,
From Two Shillings per Bottle.
FRENCH CLARET and OLD PORT WINE
FOR INVALID 3.
AUSTRALIAN PORT WINE,
Is. Bd. per Bottle.
MURRUMBIDGEE PORT,
3s. per Bottle.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BEAUMONT PORT
3s. per Bottle.
RUM,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quart’,
At lowest possible Prices.
GIN —JN FLASKS,
Is. Sid. each.
The Key Brand, and Henke’s Prize Medal Brand,
in stone bottles end square bottles,
LARGEST SIZE.
IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKY.
OLD AND MELLOW,
In Flasks, Bottles, and Imperial Quarts.
C. W. ROBERTS,
George and Market Streets,
STD NET.
VARIOUS VERSES.
[FRO THE BULLETIN.]
Her Lover Still.
I watch them walk along the street
When days are fine and warm,
With very slow and trembling feet—
Heads nodding—arm in arm.
December’s snow may scarce compare
With the pure silver of their hair.
And yet the lady must have been—
Say fifty years ago—
In Beauty’s court a very queen,
And still her eyes can glow,
The fair old faded face still flush
With the pale shadow of a blush.
Of the old country school is he,
That had the old bel air—
Knew all the arts of obivalry,
Save how to “ strut and stare.”
The form is now nil admlrari:
At thirty, we are all world weary.
This couple any Summer day
In Regent Park you’ll meet,
Following some unfrequented way
Where shade is cool and sweet.
Bhe leaning on the faithful arm
Has shielded all her life from harm.
For fifty year? they’vo made this walk
On days of sunny weather;
And now I note they seldom talk—
They’ve lived and loved together
8o long, that sympathy has taught
Bach heart to know the other’s thought.
Of all their children, none are left
Beneath the old roof-tree;
And some are wed, and some are dead,
And some beyond the sea.
They near the bottom of the hill,
Hands clasped—He is her lover still.
A Hymn to Humbug.
VERSES UNTO VICE.
TURF TROUBLES.
When, in the Bpring, the V.B.C. invite
The world to come and see the wondrous sight
Which Flemington displays—when on its course
The slender jookey and the fav’rite horse
Come to compete for hard-won pride of place
In Australasia’s most important race—
Our business men And that they must arrange
To take a fortnight’s spell, to seek the ohange
Of air which shall restore the system’s tone,
And can be found in Southern skies alone.
“ You know, my dear,” each tells his trusting wife
“I ne’er was on a race-course in my life;
“ In point of fact, I cannot tolerate
“Men who discourse of ‘Derby.’ ‘Cup,’ or ‘Plate.’
“Igo to races I I would just as soon
“ Go up with Henden in his big balloon.
‘‘No, racing ’s not my fad; but, then, just see
“At Cup-time how much less the fares will be.
“Go to the Cup 1 Oh, no, dear; on that day
“I’ll join the pious pionio down the Bay.”
Of oourse he goeB; and if, when home again,
Each unpaid bill elicits words profane—
If unpaid grocers and sad bakers fume,
And other tradesmen haughty tones assume—
The worried wife at length begins to fear
That pious picnios must be thund'ring dear!
And oft as this Turf Carnival oomes round,
Some cogent reasons oan be ever found
Why all the warships that our seas oan boast
Should move to Melbourne, to defend her coast.
The Cqp, that most alluring annual race,
Or awkward inqueet in a painful case,
Are quite enough, in Melbourne, fears to raise—
Which fears the Nelson speedily allays.
But what a vision Flemington displays
On this most fateful of all fateful days I
Since early morn a human tide has set
Towards the gates: by train or wagonette,
By stylish four-in-hand and lumbering ’bu»
(Driven in a way that frights the timorous),
Thousands have come: and no w, at noon, the road
Is groaning under traps of every mode.
Tandems, barouches, landaus, roll beside
The useful van where Jim and ’Arry ride;
And thro’ the crowd, steered with consummate
art,
Glides village, coster’s, dog, or dustman's cart.
The glittering pageant which the lawn displays
Has been the theme of many a writer’s praise—
Nor is this strange, for its bright turf is pressed
By brilliant throngs in height of fashion dressed*
Beauty and art combine on that great day
To make a scene superlatively gay.
Majestic matrons proudly there parade
Decked out in splendour, by the butcher’s aid;
And daughters flaunt in satin or in silk
Bought with the oash that should have paid *' the
milk.”
Yes, often, tradesmen for their oash must wait
That Miss may walk the lawn in proper state I
But when the sun a lengthening shadow throws,
And Cup time nears, how fast exoitement grows 1
The quivering lips betray the mind’s unrest,
And laughter, erstwhile loud, is now suppressed.
True they, the Holders, for whom Cups exist,
Most loualy roar the prices en their list
When the nags range before the flag whose din
Shall send them speeding on their flying trip;
But with the host who venture gain or loss
By backing some especial fancied horse.
The mental strain grows more and more Intense
With every lingering moment of suspense;
And to the faltering voice words almost fail
When the last jookey sallies! from the scale.
A sullen silence, awful in|-that host,
Shows that the horses linger at the post—
A silence suoh as seems o er earth to reign
Before the lightning outs the clouds in twain;
And then “ they’re off I ” from ninety thousand
throats,
Commencement of the desperate strife denotes.
Ye brilliantly the glittering band
Bpeed up the straight, and past the orowded stand 1
See how the leader strives to keep his plaoe.
And makes the running at his utmost pace:
The high exoitement of his rivalship
Supplies the plaoe of oruel spurs or whip,
And horses all as strenuously oontend
As if they knew what sums on them depend.
So fast they speed, In air they seem to glide—
But the ground shakes beneath their rapid stride,
And as they pass us on their fleet oareer
None can deny the tribute of a cheer.
But now turn round, and view the anxious crowd.
Mark how despair has wrapped her ashen shroud
Oer many a backer’s ” cheek where erstwhile
flushed
The hope that now is overthrown and crushed.
Note that with some, still, confidence can rise
a Kettering radiance in the anxious eyes:
But, though those orbs with light of hope expand.
The coward lips are held in Fear’s rude nand.
And mark, when that triumphant roar resounds
Which rises as some fancy horse compounds,
How many cheeks by clearest signs declare
That expectation’s followed by despair:
The air-built casttes go like smoke away,
And leave their lord to face the settling-day.
ISHMAEL.


THB
IGNO
IFiaZCLO-
%*
ia*!
m.
■
111 Ml co:s
FAMOUS
Migrnon
PIiHT O.
NEVER previously did any piano win such a hold
on the publlo as the Mignon has done since
Its introduction. Our competitors have no doubt
done their level best to rival us—blazoning forth
their bald imitations with a tremendous flourish
of trumpets. What result have they to show,
excepting to point to the gradual death of all their
offspring? The reason is soon found. Inferior
instruments, with showy exteriors, have been
brought forth and attempted to be foisted on the
public. But the right-thinking publlo will have
none of them. The consequence is that the
Sales of the Mignon Plano
have Trebled.
THE MIGNON PIANO
has found its way Into every town almost of all
the colonies—in Viotoria ana New South Wales,
from north to south ; to the far north of Queens-
land ; in New Zealand, from one end to the other
of the islands. In South Australia and Tasmania
THE MIGNON
can be found, and its name is really a household
word.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the people’s favourite.
THE MIGNON PIANO
for its size defies all would-be imitations.
THE MIGNON PIANO
guaranteed to withstand any climate in Australia.
THE MIGNON PIANO
is the cheapest, beoause the best.
THE MIGNON PIANO
can be hadron very easy TIME PAYMENT.
THE MIGNON PIANO
excels all similar pianos for flrst-olass work and
richness of tone.
Illustrated Catalogue, with full description
of THE MIGNON and all other good instruments,
on application.
NICHOLSON - AND GO.,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
RAIN
MOULTON’S PAIN PAINT
CURES ALL PAIN.
The best known remedy for RHEUM AT TPM,
S.URALGIA, HEADACHE, TOOTHAC lE,
RAINS, BRUISES, ’URNS. SCALD 3, fce - and
taken internally cures DIARRHIEA, B YSENjJiRY,
CRAMPS, COLIC, and all other interne sachet
and pains.
Price, 2/- Sold Everywliere.
C. E. MOULTON, sole propixtor,
MELBOURNE -ALIN’D b’.DNEY.
PAINT
Marshall's
TONIC .NERVINE
BVOI& TIRBD.
SAFE, CERTAIN, & SPEEDY CURE for Ner-
vous and General D ebility, and all oomplaini a
that spring from lack of narve force, as Neuralgia,
Toothache, Nervousnesa Indigestion, Loss 01
Appetite, Female Disort ers, Liver and Kidney
Complaints. Loss of Vital Power, &c. By Its tonic
and soothing effects it at o nee removes all craving
for Alcohol, By its richness in phosphorous and
other powerful vitalising e lements, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE nourish es and gives vigour to
the whole system. Price. 4s. 6d., or 265. a case.
Bole Proprietors, MARSHALL BROTHERS, M.F.S.
Manufacturing and oonsuhtlrur Chemists, 104 and
«* MarkPt-strtjet, near Hj*ie Park. Sidney, and
SPttgLvet, Circular-quay, 7>KB NO BUBSTI-
[TAL I A N EMPORIUM
FANCY CHINAWARE,
comprising
TEA SETB, DESSERT SETS, VABE3, ORNA-
MENTS, &c.
FANCY GOODS IN GREAT VARIETY.
Silk Fans, Ladies’ Belts, t unshades, Dolls, &o.
The Latest Novelties always on hand.
Best quality with reasonable prices.
B. MAR MO NT, 410 George-strect.
PAINTS.
OILS.
&
&
o
&
WALL
PAPERS
Office: 330 George-street.
STORES: MILLER’S POINT.
N.B. Pattern■ and Price* *ent.
NEUSTADT and CO.,
COMPLETE
FURNISHERS,
39.154, 156, & 158 OXFORD-ST]
SYDNEY.
er houses furnished throughout
WITH EVERY REQUISITE,
Either for Cash or Time Payment.
BEST OF UPHOLSTERERS KEPT, AND ALL
WORK GUARANTEED.
Special Inducements to Cash Purchasers.
MAHHOOP RESTORED I
A Clergyman having tried every known
remedy for the Citrh of Nervous Exhaustion,
Prematuire Decay, &0., has at last discovered a
simple Skiof-Oure, which for the sake of suffering
humanity,, be will send FREE the Prescription
which CURED him. Address, with self-addressed
stamped envelope—
Dr. lE. A CLARKE, P’O. Box 292, Sydney.
BOWLAimS ODONTO is the best, pur-
Mt, and most fragrant preparation for the teeth
Health depends in a great measure upon the
soundness of the teeth and their freedom from
decay, and all dentists allow that neither washm
nor pastes can possibly be as efficacious for polish-
ing the teeth and keeping them sound and whifn
» » P"I» non-gritty tooth powder; euchlto™
lands Odonto has always proved itself to be.
EUKONIA is a beautifully
Eure, delicate, and fragrant toilet powder, and has
itelv been much improved. Kaoh box has insidS
and cream. ’ UBB ’
MACASSAR OIL can now
i? 1^ ha< l I ? aKolde , noolour > which is especially
suited for fair or golden-haired children and per-
sons. Four sizes.
Askany dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ ar-
ticles, of 20, Hatton Garden, London, and avoid
spurious worthless Imitations .
t j ll -Affenta, Elliott Bros., E.
Prosser and Co., Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING.
WEST END HOUSE,
168 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Compagnoni's.)
l H J?.HS3. ers, « rned * recognising the want of a
_ FIRST CLASS TAILORING ESTABLISH-
„_INT, have OPENED the premises lately occu-
&led by the Bank of Australasia, at 168 PITT-
TREEt (THE WEST END HOUSE) where they
Intend to carry on a High-class and Fashionable
Trade.
The public may feel assured that we shall be
able to maintain a high standard, when we state
that our Mr. Ward has had some years’ experience
In the best houses in London, Paris, as well as In
flrsLclass Sydney Establishments, namely, Farmer
and Co.’s and David Jones and Co.’s.
Our Mr. Wilson has had fully 20 years’ expe-
rience in the Australian trade, and has just re-
turned from England, where hejviaited all the
principal Woollen Mills, including, that of Hud-
aersfleld, as w*ll as West of England and Scotch
Mills. This will be a sufficient guarantee that the
tastes and requirements of the public will receive
the attention they deserve.
In conclusion, we desire to say that we hope to
obtain a fair share of patronage, in return for
which we guarantee first-class work, all hand-
made, well shrunk, perfect fit, and all in the latest
London and Paris styles.
Soliciting a trial, we remain,
Very truly yours,
FREDERICK WILSON,
HUGH WARD,
Fashionable Tailors, Bob* and Habit Makers.
Wist End House,
168 Pitfrstreet, Sydney,
-A.'brsila.a.aacL’s
Skills
(DANDELION)
The Great Liver Remedy !
, Prepared from Dandelion, and free from the
slightest particle of mercury or mineral substance,
are the popular medicine of the nineteenth cen-
tury ; so simple, yet most effective ; they can be
thoroughly recommended, being a carefully pre-
pared preparation, and the result of practical ex-
perience. They overcome the worst form of
Diseases of the Liver, Stomach, Head and Kidneys.
I have yet to hear that they have not afforded
Immediate relief.
434 GEORGE STREET.
JAMES MACGREGOR,
808 GEORGE STREET.
«S?SB9
-v •
W HOLES ALI
GROCER
and
WINK and
SPIRIT MER-
CHANT.
solblgent
for
BROOMFIELD S
CELEBRATED
OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY.
IMPERIAL
SCHNAPPS.
LITHUANIAN
MAGEN BIT-
TERS.
GENERAL
IMPORTER
. of
MACHINERY.
MONTHLY
PRICE LIST
on
APPLICATION.
I W~ MANUFACTURER OP THE CELEBRATED
BULTAJTB COFFEE.
THE
Its livis Sewing Machine.
The SIMPLEST, CHEAPEST, & BEST MACHINE
ever Introduced into Australia.
EAST TO WORK, EASY TO LEARN,
EABT TO KEEP IN ORDER.
No Springs. No Cogs. No Ratchets.
The only Maohine in the World possessing the
INESTIMABLE ADVANTAGE of FEEDING
ABOVE THE WORK.
Constructed on the highest principles of Modern
Science, and of the Best Possible Materials.
Bold on TIME PAYMENTS in Town and Country.
T&T Samples and Catalogues POSTED FREE tc
any part of the colony.
B. O. Holtermann & Co.,
Sole Agents,
674 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
J. TURN EH ROBINSON & CO.'S
TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT
MARKEi' CLOTH HALL,
478 Georgo-strßet,
Established 1864,
HAS THE LARGEST AND BEST-ASSORTED
STOCK OF
WOOLLENS
IN THE COLONY,
DIRECT FROM THE MANUFACTURERS.
|W“ Fashionable and First-class GARMENTS to
order, weU made, weU shrunk, and a perfect fill
guatanteed.
Hiaanrs
Prize Medal Salt
FOR DAIRY and TABLE USE.
Has secured 10 medals, and obtained first honours
at every Dairy Show Exhibition.
SOLE AGENT FOR AUSTRALIA :
A. G. CHURCH WOOD,
147 YORK STREET.
A. & C. HUENERBEIN’S
Royal Piano & Music Warehouse,
SIS GEORGE STREET,
Next Peapes and Shaw.
fcW - The most liberal house for Pianos and Organs,
for Cash or Easy Terms.
Inspection Cordially Invited.
A. & C. Huenerbein,
318 GEORGE STREET.
W. H. CHARD AND GO.,
WOOL BROKERS,
MACQUARIE PLACE,
BYDNEY.
LIBERAL ADVANCES made on WOOL er
other PRODUCE shipped to their London
Agents, Messrs. Redfern, Alexander and Co., 3
Great Winchester-street, E.C.
The Careful Personal Supervision of this well-
known firm is given to all consignments.
10HO domestic Paper fashions
Av/VJvy shown in our Illustrated Catalogue
Price, Threepence ( by Post, Focrpence.
OH A * PEL ft CO.,
Late Johnston & Co.,
Paper TatPePN and General Sewing-machine
AGency,
746 GEORGE ST., HaYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Machines repaired, and all fittings, Ac., kept in
stock.
ESTIMATES GIVEN FOR PRESENTATION PLATE.
QUEENSLAND OPALS CUT
AND MOUNTED.
*mr
(g
B
m
8$
$
Slf.
DC
&
o
CO
o
(A
55 ©.
H «
S 4 EH
9
*
\
05
s
<
T>.
QTi
t
3
e
ra
EiGe)
%
%
N/HSk*
Original Designs for Trophies
and Medals.
CRESTS, COATS OF ARMS, AND CLUB COLOURS ENAMELLED.
X3©lia,*ble
r
PROCURABLE ONLY AT THE
AMERICAN CARRIAGE A MACHINERY REPOSITORY,
CORNER OF CLARENCE AND MARGARET STREETS.
EXPRESS WAGGONS or WAGGONETTES,
California and Eastern Backboard Waggons.
W BEST MANUFACTURED ARTICLES ONLY KEPT IN STOCK.
WILLIAM FLEMING-, Merchant & Importer.
22 & 24 Clarence-street, Sydney (near Petty’s Hotel.)


CHRISTMAS CAROL
How it is Done in London.
Just sixteen thousand miles away, over the sea,
across the blue Mediterranean, over the wide-
spreading forest, under the mountains, skirting
the hills, through the fertile plains and valleys,
over the sea again, a few short miles of smiling
fields, past popular villages and towns; and as the
atmosphere becomes thick with smoke and dust,
and bricks and mortar abound on every side, we
find ourselves at last landed in the metropolis of
the world, the city of cities, the modern Babylon,
London itself. We are back now in our native
colony, and glad enough, too, for many reasons.
It takes time to get used to London ways, and our
halting was but a brief one. We missed the clear
blue sky of Australia; we were nearly choked
with the smoke and the fog, and we sighed for the
balmy air of our home in the South. Many a
wondrous thing we saw, many a sight greeted us
that our eyes had never lighted on before; and yet,
amidst the turmoil of pleasure-seeking and rush-
ing about, our hearts would oftentimes turn home-
ward, and we were glad when an opportunity
came of seeing Sydney folk, and talking about
Sydney affairs. And we bethought us of a certain
letter of introduction from our friends, Anthony
Hordern and Sons, in Sydney to their representa-
tives in London. Everyone in Sydney, to say
nothing of a great many people outside it, is
familiar with that big building in the Haymarket
known as The Palace Emporium. But we were in
London; and, being there, determined to present
our letter, Bee what was to be seen, hear what we
could hear, and digest all to the best advantage.
Full of this idea, we hied us to 13 Edmunds Place,
Aldersgate-street, in the Parish of St. Botolph
without, in the City of London, our reception being
of the most courteous character. The gentleman
whom we first saw, and whose face is as familiar
in Sydney as in the London warehouses, assured
us of the very great pleasure it always afforded
himself and his colleagues to see anyone from the
other side. Said he, “The mail is just in, and we
have a batch of letters from our Sydney House.”
“ Rather a tough job,” suggested we, eyeing the
formidable pile of papers before our new-found
friend. “Yes,” said he, “ they seem going ahead
pretty well over there,” a remark which our ex-
perience enabled us to endorse most faithfully. We
thought everything could be procured in London—
at any rate, everything that our Sydney cousins
would be likely to require; but we soon found out
that Anthony Horden and Sons were far ahead of
such antediluvian notions. True, you can get
everything in London: you can get a Bengal tiger
or a white elephant down at Jamrachs in Ratcliff
Highway; you can get African cowries, Esqui-
maux canoes, and South American jerked beef;
you can buy a big steamship, a genuine mummy,
or the twin diamond to the “ Koh-i-noor;” in fact,
there is nothing, provided the ca»h is forthcoming,
that you cannot get in that wonderful city. And
these gentlemen know all this, but they know
something more; they feel the necessity and the
policy of steering quite a different course. They
feel the extent of their business entitles—in fact,
obliges—them to go somewhat behind the scenes.
They feel they have a mission to fulfil, a promise
to redeem, a character to maintain: for do not
they oall themselves “Universal Providers,” and
the term is a large one, and its meaning, to say
the least of it, inclusive. The factor and the mor-
ebant will not by any means do for them. They
buy largely, and they must buy in the cheapest
market; they must get the stuff first hand, straight
from the looms, the factories, and the workshops;
they must, to use a simile, go to the cow for their
milk, for the intervention of the milkman is
fraught with a suspicion of chalk and water. They
must go in among the cotton looms: they must see
the patterns before the bulk is thought of, be-
cause on their approval or disapproval depends
the quantity of the turn-out. They must ex-
amine the warp and the weft of the fabric; they
must see that they are to get the correct thing; in
fact they must know all about it long before it ap-
pears in the merchant’s warehouse. Here it is
that our friend’s Railway Station comes in: a trip
to Birmingham to fix a big line of bedsteads, or to
hurry up the last order for tin goods, is as a walk
to the other end of the town—London town, we
mean down by the Midday Mail, back by the
Evening Express. The crockery, too-do you
think these enterprising gentlemen buy it off the
agent or the factor? Bot a bit of it. Away in the
Lotteries, down in Staffordshire and thereabouts,
lere they may be seen ordering the plates and the
dishes, the cups and saucers, and the pretty dinner
services—close to the potter’s wheel, right under
the shadow of the kiln chimney; and we will be
bound to say that they know all there is to be
known about crockery and such ware—from the
cost per ton of bringing the clay from Dorsetshire
and elsewhere, to the painting and polishing to fit
it for the market. They are wise in their genera-
tion, are these Universal Providers; they have the
right grit in them, they go in for success; and it’s
all George-street to a suburban allotment they
achieve it. It is the same all through; all the
multifarious details, all the bewildering confusing
numberless commodities, are dealt with in the
same way. There are bootsaDd shoes: shew them
your samples, and they laugh at you; shew them
the leather in the rough, let them see for them-
selves what sort of stitching, pegging, and work
you are going to put into the article, then there is
a chance of a big order; and don’t think that—be-
cause they were not born in Northampton or Lei-
cester they don’t know every whit as much
about the matter as the knowingest old cobbler in
either of those ancient municipalities. For these
übiquitous merchants go everywhere: far up
to the North of Scotland, the veritable
“Land o’ Cakes,” where they make floor-
cloths, to Wolverhampton, Nottingham. Shef-
field, Bradford, Leeds; all these see them at times—
for have they not Japanned goods, cutlery, tweeds,
blankets, and lace goods to examine and buy ?
In fact, as surely as there is a factory chimney
sending forth its smoke, anywhere between the
Land’s End and John o' Groat’s house, so surely
may you find them any time between opening cn
Monday morning and shutting up on Saturday
night. And do you think this is all they have to
do—these restless active-minded people,with whom
we conversed in the oflice in the Parish of St.
Botolph Without Aldersgate? We rather think
not. How about Paris, the city of elegance and
fashion? Berlin, the capital of united Germany and
the pride of Herr von Bismark’s heart? How
about the Grenoble glove-makers, and the silk-
weavers? How about the glass-makers of
Bohemia and Bavaria? the toy factories of Nurem-
burg and the little towns of Saxony ? How about
the lace and embroidery industries of Switzerland?
Do you think our friends leave these unvisited?
By no means. In the Swiss villages, in the streets
oflßerlin, on :tbe Boulevards of Paris, are they
pretty nearly as well known as in Wood-street or
Old ChaDge; and this is why the big cases and the
unwieidly crates, and the hogsheads with the
familar brand AHS over S in diamond are as often
to be seen on the wharves of Hamburg and other
£ laces of Continental departure, as in the London
locks or alongside the P. and O. Company’s
steamers. Yes, this is something of the way the
thing is done; and if time and space permitted we
eould tell more and much more. We could tell how
the active brain and the willing hands work to-
gether—how that universal cheapener of every-
thing, “cash dowD,” is, in a great measure, the
key-note to the whole; and how in a hundred wavs
our idea# were enlarged by our visit-to Edmund’s
Place, Aldersgate-street. Yet one other point re-
mains to be touched upon, for tfcese notes would
be incomplete without some further referenee to
“the firm ”4tself. Anthony Hordern in London,
and Samuel Hordern in Sydney, are they whose
brains have devised, and whose rare business
capaoity and judiciously-used capital have brought
to its present pitch this gigantic busine-s. An-
thony Hordern in London, directing everything
on that side, yet stilL finding time for grand rail-
way and emigration schemes in Western Australia
that cannot but bring on him the blessings of
generations yet to come. Samuel Hordern in
Sydney, enterprising, ooqrteous, clear-headed,
painstaking in the smallest details, guiding th&
helm and steering the ship in these Southern
latitudes. Can we wonder, with two such men,
that the whole thing has been, and is a success ?*


AND
ISI
ALL CHEST AFFECTIONS
AND
pf
UMBRELLAS
Ri£OVEBB&
STUDY ECONOMY
and
Have yourU mbrelia Frames
re-covered, and your
Parasols re-lined and made
equal to New, at
J. SULLIVAN'S
641 George Street,
Brickfield Hill, between
Liverpool and Bathurst Bta,
Parasols made to match cos-
tumes. Benairs neatly exe-
crated
ALEX. BORTHWICK,
" Importer of
Plate, Sheet, and Ornamental Glass,
OIL & COLOR MERCHANT,
PAINTER AND DECORATOR,
Glass Silverer, Beveller, and Embosser.
A large stock of Paperhangings of the most
beautiful designs ever seen in the colonies.
Patterns sent post free.
281 GEORGE STREET,
Opposite Hunter Street.
C. F. PRIDDY & GO.,
438 GEORGE STREET,
HAVE THE
Largest and Best-selected Stock
of Hats in Sydney.
HATS MADE TO ORDER.
All the Best Tondon Makes Imported.
438 GEORGE STREET,
Between Royal Hotel and Market-street.
w. mT Wallace,
Importer of every description of
Literature, Law, Mercantile and
Fancy Stationery.
English Papers and Magazines received by
every Mall.
ROYAL ARCADE. GEORGB rtT.. «fi BTDNKY.
BULL DOG- ALE.
FIRST AWARD, GOLD MEDAL,
CALCUTTA EXHIBITION.
THE sparkling, healthful, refreshing, and thirst-
quenching properties of this world-renowned
bottling of Bass' Ale have obtained for Messrs.
Robert Porter and Co. the highest award given at
the Calcutta Exhibition. Connoisseurs of Burton
Beer may obtain their favourite beverage in the
choicest possible condition by ordering BULL DOG
ALE, which is to be obtained of all the leading
Wine and Spirit Merchants.—CATTELL & CO.,
Sole Agents.
isaoraa utvsstohav
it
SUV9IO JO xoa V
: AXPiYioaxs ano
•Anojoo eqj m
sxNawaam&aa .saaaows ciny odovhox
jo jaani
-jiossy jsag pun jsaS.iß'i oqj jdoq eq ni*'- oJ3 'l Ai
‘Saaqm'Bqo ejißSioipy. ixgkt
ajg 8S
Cr ITYH r WCVi ;
jb ‘saetraai, -nire
-ArißJjuso pots M9N cramjo
enojarana jo jsanboa oqj jb *sbu y, VCT
• o 5) ‘sooooqo J ‘sjdu.q
ao aaxaod.
‘anYQM r
T. L. SKiTH,
Royal Book and Picture Promenade,
418 and R 99 Gcorjye-street,
Near Royal Hotel.
“A thing of beauty is a joy for ever.”
CALL and view the Works of Art displayed in
Christmas and New Year’s Cards.
Christmas Cards. Christmas Cards.
The Largest and Choicest Variety ever
Displayed in Australia.
Hand Painted, Ivory Gelatine, Satin, Plush
Photographic Cards, and a host of others, too
numerous to particularize.
Cards from 2d. per dozen to 103. each.
H
PEAPES & SHAW, George Street,
EREBY NOTIFY THAT THEY HAVE JUST RECEIVED, EX MAIL S.S. ORIENT AND
MIRZAPORE,
The Most Beautiful Assortment of Fancy Goods
it has ever been their good fortune to have to submit to the Australian Public, suitable
FOE CIDS m HEW lEEE FEESMTIOI.
The Useful as well as the Beautiful.
SUITABLE WEDDING PRESENTS ! SUITA BLE CHRISTENING PRESENTS I
CHARMING BIRTHDAY PRESENTS I
It is simply impossible in an advertisement to enumerate the endless variety, we therefore respect-
fully invite our friends io inspect our Windows and walk through our Showrooms and Sbo , where
they will always find attentive and obliging assistants to attend them.
PEAPES and SHAW have also opened a charming variety of White, Cream, Ficelle, and Coloured
LACE GOODS: Beautiful Fabric and French KID GLOVES; An Exquisite Assortment of Ladies’and
Children’s LONDON and PARIS COSTUMES.
We shall land by the Lusitania a Special Shipment of Infants’ Children’s, and Ladies’ UNDER-
CLOTHING, for the Christmas trade.
Peapes and Shaw,
GEORGE STREET.
Peapes and Shaw,
GEORGE STREET.
Peapes and Shaw’s “ Standard ” Ready-made Clothing.
SPECIAL NOTE.—We were the first to adopt the word “ Standard ”as a brand, together with the
Mercantile Flag as our trade mark. We have, however, been copied by several other manufacturers
We suppose w@ may take that as a compliment to the excellence of this particular class of goods. We
would simply suggest that customers should see that our name is on the ticket, as well as our trade mark
GENTLEMEN’S SUMMER ~)
“ STAN DA RD ” TWEED f 353., 425., 455., 50a.,
SUITS, EXCELLENT CUT and l 555., 635.
WELL MADE )
Tweed Sac Coats, 18s. 6d , 21a.; Tweed OlTice Coats,
Black Alpaca Sac Coats, 10s. od. to 15a. 6d.; Cash-
mere ditto, 18s. 6d.
White Linen Duck Coats, military.[collars, 7s. 6d.
to 15s. 6d. •
White Flannel Cricketing Coats, 18a. 6d. each
Ditto ditto Trousers, 138. Gd. pair
China Silk Sac and Dust Coats, from 15s 6d. to 21s.
Nicolle’a Frock Coats, Nicolle’s Walking Suits
Nieolle’s Summer Overcoats, from 365. to 50s.
The New “ Antipluvium” Waterproof Coat, weight
only 7 ounces, the lightest waterproof made
White Linen Vests, »s. 6d. each. 3 for 275.
The New “ Masher” White Dress Vest, button low
Oxford Dressing Gown, specially suitable lor this
climate in the summer.
PEAPES and SHAW, GEORGE STREET,
PEAPfiS ami SHAW’S JUVENILE CLOTHING.
Boyo' and Youths’ Tweed Sac Suits, from 21s. to .‘iss.
Boys’ and Youths’ superior Worsted Suits, 395. (id.
Boys’ and Youths’ Tweea Trousers, 7s. 6J. and
Bs. (id. pair
Boys’ & Youths’ Alpaca Coats, 7s. 6d. & Bs. 6d.each
Boys’ and Youths’ White Duck Coats, (is. ed each
Boys’ Man-of-War Trouser Suits, 9s. 6d. to 18s. 6d.
each
Boys’ Blue Serge, Cheltenham, Imperial, Norfolk
Military, and other Pane/ Tweed Suits, new
shapes.
CHRISTY’S HATS. CHRISTY’S HATS.
We have now the latest Shapes for the Summer
Season, made specially light for us, to suit
the climate.
Black Silk Hats, Drab Pullovers, Drab Shells
Black, Drab, Brown, and Slate Pelts, lrom 7s 6d
to 13s. (id.
Soft Felt Hats, in all colours and shapes
RUSTIC HaTS, all colours, suitable for cricket
Lawn Tennis, Boating, &c , is. each ’
Cricketing Cans, I'raveiling Caps, Polo Caps, Fez
Caps. •
PORTMANTEAU DEPARTMENT.
Travelling Trunks, Dress Trunks, Iron Trunks
every size and shape
Gladstone Bags, fitted and unfitted
Briet Bags, Deed Bags, Satchels, liug Straps
Travelling Rugs, Silk Wraps, and Mauds.
PEAPES and SHAW, George-street.
BAUMAMN.
NEW PREMISES, 107 PITT STREET,
3iT©-w Open..
Barry's Tricopherous!
Guaranteed to make the hair grow onhald heads,
to eradicate scurf and dandruff, and remove all
impurities from the scalp. It positively prevents
the hair from falling out or turning gray, and in
every case makes it thick, soft, glossy, and
abundant.
Barry’s Florida Water!
The Original and the Best. The only perfume
in the world that has received the endorsement of
a Government. Put up in three sizes.
Sole Wholesale Agents:
S. Hoffnung and Co.
W. H. jkriell & Co/s
AGENCIES.
SWALLOW & ARIELL’S prize Biscuits, compris-
ing a variety of 74 kinds—Canterbury, Nor-
manby, and Family Cakes, Plum Puddings,
Mincemeat, Infant’s Food, Self-raising Flour,
Treacle and Golden Syrup, in all size tins,
casks, and bottles.
EXCELSIOR MILLS. —Prize Victorian Oatmeal,
Pearl Barley, and Silk-dressed Flour, in 501 b.
and 2001 b. bags.
DILLON, BURROWS & CO.’S prize assorted Con-
fectionery.
A. M. HUNT & CO.’S prize Baking Powder, in
34,34, and lib. tins.
R. WHITTINGHAM & CO.’S Criterion York Hams
Kent Hops, Dates,. Salt Herrings, Paper Bags,
and General Provisions, Caustic Soda, &c.
ANGLO-SCANDINAVIAN MILK-Gold Medal
brand.
343 and 345 Kent Street,
NEAR KING STREET, SYIJN^Y;
P. KIRBY,
From the late Mr. Jambs Curtis,
TT'aa.d.ertaJser,
84 HUNTER & PHILLIP STREETS.
FUNERALS NEATLY EXECUTED.
N.B.—Mr. Kirby was in the employ of the late
Mr. James Curtis for sixteen (16) years; also,
Manager for over ten (10) years.
finHE FRESH FOOD AND ICE COMPANY
I (Limited),
have Opened a
BRANCH DEPOT
AT
No. 23 RoyaS Arcade,
where they supply
Milk, Cream, Butter, Coffee, Cocoa, &c., with
light refreshments.
At this Branch, orders may be left for delivery
by their carts.
They have also taken over the Agency for
“ KOUMISS,” so highly recommended in pulmo-
nary complaints.
PURE COUNTRY BULK.
THE M4L K BUP PL lED BY THE
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
may be relied upon as being
ALWAYS PURE,
and, being obtained from the country districts, as
free from city contaminations.
Butter.
This is manufactured from cream, extracted
by the use of cream separators, at their Mittagong
factory.
Deliveries of milk twice daily, Sundays excepted,
when only morning delivery is made. Butter by
special cart: city, daily; suburbs, three times
weekly.
Fresh Food & Ice Co., Limited,
Head Office 21 Harbour-street.
Stables Liverpool-street.
Factory Mittagong.
C. COWLES,
GrUNMAKER & IMPORTER.
nc
Sole Agent for
W. & C. SCOTT & SONS’ CELEBRATED GUNS
For Price and Quality ave no equal.
Latest Patents, and MOST VARIED STOCK
of FIREARMS in Australia.
AMMUNITION, SPORTING KNIVES, &o.
Repairs by London workmen.
C. COWLES, 407 GEORGE STREET.
N.B.— Second-hand Guns by best makers.
D R RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS MAIM
Has an enormous sale in England,
and is now being introduced into the
Colonies.
Every Storekeeper should get a supply,
as every wise mother will certainly
use it.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
WT THE NEW SOUTH WALES PROPERTY
INVESTMENT COMPANY (LIMITED),
Capital, £lOO,OOO.
Allow Interest as follows:-SEVEN PER CENT
on fixed deposits for 12 months; FIVE PER CENT,
and UPWARDS for shorter periods ; FIVE PER
CENT, on sums from £1 to £5O in the Savings Bank
Branch, Payable on Demand. Offices, 4 Park-st.
T. V. WAREHAM, Managor.
SCOTCH WHISKEY
THE PREMIER WHISKEY IS
THOM AND CAMERON’S
Old. Matured
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
DULY BROTHERS,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland,
IMPORTERS of IRISH and SCOTCH WHISKIE
and GENERAL MERCHANDISE,
300 Georg® Street, SycSoey
Genuine Irish Whiskey
WM. JAMESON & CO.’S DUBLIN WHISKEY
IS UNSURPASSED.
It is bottled in bond for Expert at the Distillery,
Dublin, and consumers may, t. ref ore, rely that it
has not been in the hands of “ hiskev Doctors.”
When you ask for it, see that you get it,'look for the
trade mark J. in diamond on label, cork and capsule.
DsSj trotters,
Sole Agents for N.S.W. and Queensland
The Mercantile Bank of Sydney
ESTABLISHED 1889.
INCORPORATED BY ACT Of PARLIAMENT, 18"
Paid-up Capital £300,0W
Reserve Fund £138,0i)
Directors •
The Hon. Sir John Hay, K.C.M.G., Chairin
Hon. Henry Mort, M.L.C.
George S. Caird, Esq.
Hon. Philip Gidley King, M.L.C.
C. RoliWton, Esq., C.M.G.
Auditors:
Jas. Scroggic, Esq. I Hon. H. E. Cohen, Esq*
}eneratj Manager:
iT. A. A. AVilson.
Secretary:
Hector Allen.
Branches in New South Waives :
Haymarket, Pyrmont, Redfern, Giraiambone,
Goaf or d, N yngan, Bourke, Manly and Byerock.
Branch in Queensland :
Brisbane.
London Branch : 168 Leadenhall-street.
DIRECTOBS :
Edward Chapman, Esq. i Geo. F. Slade, Esq.
Sir Saul Samuel,K.C.M.G I Geo. H. Alexander, E,,,
Manager : Geo. H. Alexander, Esq.
London Bankers:
The National Provincial Bank of England
This bank transacts all usual Banking and Finan-
cial Agency Business on the most favourable terms.
Bills discounted daily.
Bills negotiated and advances made against Woo 1
and other produce shipped to England for sale,
Sulpfaolsne
Lotion
THE CURE FOI
In a few days Eri Cons >n,
fadeaway. Beautifully fragiflbt. Perfectly rmri
less. Cures old-standing Skin Diseases. Astonjsl
ing results follow. It removes every kind of
Eruption, Spot, or Blemish, and renders the skin
clear, smooth, supple, aid healthy. Sulphollne
Lotion is sold by most Chemists. Bottles, 23 9d
each. Made only by J. PEPPER and Co., London
PEPPER’S
QUININE & IRON
GT H. "T 0 S Q
ENERGY. *
GREAT BODILY STRENGTH !
GREAT NERVE STRENGTH !
GREAT MENTAL STRENGTH!
GREAT DIGESTI VE STRENGTH follows the use
of PEPPER’S QUININE and IRON TONIC. It
promotes appetite, dispels languor, depression,’*
&c., Is a remedy for Neuralgia, Chest affections,
and wasting diseases. Bottles, 32 doses. Sold by
Chemists everywhere. Insist on having Pepper’s c
Made solely by J. PEPPER and Co., London.
Special ( y suitable for the colonies.
PEPPER’S
TARAXACOH c.”
AID PODOPHYLLIN.
A FLUID LIVER MEDICINE, MADE FROM
DANDELION AND MANDRAKE ROOTS
Of Great Value for tho Colonies.
Good for Liver Disorder, Indigestion, Dyspepsia.
The best Antibiiious Remedy. Without a particle
of Mercury- Safest and surest Stomach and Liver
Medicine. Clears the Head and cures Headache.
Regulates the Bowels. Removes Heartburn, Fla-
tulence, Torpidity. Bottles, 12 doses. Sold by
most Chemists. Insist that Pepper’s is supplied.
SULPHUR
HAIR RESTORER
THE BEST. THE SAFEST. THE CHEAPEST.
Restores the Colour In a few applications.
Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Made in London.


Tiie London end Liverpool Watch Company*
:V>
/
’*7
k;:
O-*
27 KOTT-AJj 27
The Manufacturers of the above Watches have OPENED a BRANCH at
the above address, where the people of New South Wales can
PURCHASE a SINGLE WATCH at the MANUFACTURERS’ PRICE.
First-class, Sound, Strong, Sterling Silver Hunting English Lever, Capped and
jewelled, for £3 10s., warranted for 5 years.
27 XSO 27
THE LONDON AND LIVERPOOL MATCH COMPANY.
for general debility and nervousness,
FOR INDIGESTION OR EXHAUSTION,
FOR FEVERS AND LOSS OF APPETITE,
ALL CONVALESCENTS,
At all Druggists and Chemists.
DRINK IT I
DRINK IT!
DRINK IT!
DRINK IT l
UTUMJimni
China, Glass, Earthenware, & Fancy Goods.
(OPPOSITE WYNYAKD STREET.)
m
JO L
A.ND GAETSK HOTEL,
No. 104 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Minis Hotel is centrally situated, beinsr close to Post aDd Telegraph Office, Theatre, Tramway
' | sup. rior Accommrdation for Families and Commercial Gentlemen. lirst-class Wines and bp*
The most Comlortabla ane commodious Prii'Rte Bar in the city. Albei tb. Mandersand Co. stelegi
supplied. Sporting* tel ©gran: ironi all parts ot the colony posted up.
St- PAUL'S LAGER BEER
Sole Agents —LESLIE MeLAREN, & CO.,
247 George Street.
ASK TOUR GROCER FOR
S. FRY & SOUS, Bristol, London, and Sydney.
“An ordinary Cup contains more of the active properties of Malt than a pint of the best ale or porter.— Lancet.
HONESTY SS THE BEST POLICY.
rj-ORirs , , ;
llljl "
IpishWiS IWaroW
'ifatnAVty-'i L M ' ; '4fit*n£uJUi
itiasl
OXUSEfij
4' aH-Jii
It is of the utmost importance that contents of
each bottle should be carefully compared, as large
quantities are being imported into New South
Wales in small bottles.
Drinkers of this favourite beverage should com-
pare LOHNE HIGHLAND WH/SKY with any of
the other brands, when they wilt find a difference
of at least 10 per cent, in fa vour of LORN E HIGH-
LAND NriiSNY.
VIRGOE, SON , AND CHAPMAN
AGENTS,
Champagne
HeEdsScck & Go's.
DRY MONOPOLL
OF ALL WINE MERCHANTS.
SAMUEL EJCBLAItDS & Co., London.
, A"“"tP ter Heidsler'U .V mi.. !(, tmi..
I V SHOCLD > USE IPEMELL’S
EXTRA* ~TJh'EttFINE
IT IS MADE FROM THE BEST WHEAT
in a Mill rook te with the in-west.and most approved
New Process Machinery.
The FRICI; is VERY' LQW. and tbe QUALITY
is GUARANTEED VERY GOOD.
VIC TLB. I A EL OUSfc MHL,
831 G corse-street, Sydney.
WALLACH BROS.’
NEW
FURNITURE WAREHOUSES,
YORK STREET, WYMYARD SQUARE,
AND
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne and London.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES WITH PRICE LIST, FREE ON APPLICATION.
WALLACH BROTHERS.
MASON BROTHERS,
3®w?hp
limited,
and 13 Spring Street,
Sydney,
Have always in STOCK, for SALE
to the TRADE and WHOLE-
SALE BUYERS ONLY,
IRONMONGERY, and
GENERAL HARDWARE.
GLASS, CHINA,
ANB
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS, AND SPIRITS,
and general
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Agents for
JOHN WALKER and SONS'
Old Highland Whisky.
J. SOP-IN and CO.’S
Cognac.
J.T.GA YEN’S
Schnapps;<ud Geneva.
A- MEL YIN and SONS’
Edinbtu’ji a Pale * >«.
AFTCn CEFOR3
Copyrighted.
IiQtJDTACIISandWHISmS.
Boyd’s Beard T.lixirdid this, and
will do it on either buld head or
bare face. Forced heavy Motts-
tache in fromZto 4 weeks and never
fails, 20,000 young wen already
wear full beards, having used 1 to
3 pkts. No injury, easily applied, certain in effect.
6EFOn2 AFTErt
3Q
Copyrighted
Packets Is. Qd
each, 3 for ?■*. hi.’post paid] 'vent under cover; free from observation.
A<idress, Frank Douglas, Sale Agent,80x 730, 0.P.0., Sydney,N.B, W‘
Robert butcher & 00.
(Lato William Long),
\fST WINE AND SPIRIT MERCHANT.
634 GEORGE STREET,
OPPOSITE THE TOWN HALL, SYDNEY
Country Orders reoeive prompt attent
GOOLALTA WINES,
SILVER MEDAL BORDEAUX,
CELLARS and BODEGA.
354 George-street
(Beneath Paling’s.)
BLAKE’S IMPROVE)’
STEAM PUMPS-
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
17 PITT STREET)
SYDNEY,
ARE SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
and have in Stock and to arrive—
FIRE PUMPS
BOILER-FEED PUMPS
TANK OR LIGHT SERVICE PUMPS
MINING PUMPS
COMBINED AIR & CIRCULATING
TANNERY PUMPS
SUGAR-HOUSE PUMPS
VACUUM PUMPS
DEEP-WELL-SINKING PUMPS
SEND FOR PRICES AND ALL PARTIC
TJ
CATALOGUES FORWARDED FR##'
BLEND
jMA^i
£s^
CIOLLIE BLEND WHISK Y.-Thifl is ft
) of the PUREST MATURED Wbiskjefbjotf’
bininj? fulness of body, -with piouancy g,o>
of tast® and flavour. CATTELL & CO*
Asrenta.
3ES. KOWLAMDiBj
LATE ROWLANDS & LEWIS,
Manufacturer of all kinds of Crated Haters, Cordials, and Bitters, and Proprietor of Vigorine,
BALLARAT, MELBOURNE, and at
31 AND 33 HUNTED STREET, SYDNEY.
Calcutta Exhibition awarded the Only Go/a Medal for /Erated and Mineral Waters; also, another Gold Medal for Liqueurs, Bitters, & c -
